{"id": "1587390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1587390", "title": "69 (novel)", "text": "69 (novel)\n\nThirty-two-year-old narrator Kensuke Yazaki takes a nostalgic look back at the year 1969, when he was an ambitious and enthusiastic seventeen-year-old, living in Sasebo, in western Kyushu, where he gets into antics with his equally ambitious and enthusiastic best friends, Iwase and Adama. \nTheir priorities are girls, cinema, music, literature, pop culture, organising a school festival to be called \"The Morning Erection Festival\", besting teachers and enemies, and finding a way to change the world somehow.\n\nThe 2004 film \"69\" is based on Murakami's novel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36548654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36548654", "title": "A Rosa do Povo", "text": "A Rosa do Povo\n\nA Rosa do Povo (\"The People's Rose\") is a book of modernist poetry written by the Brazilian writer and poet Carlos Drummond de Andrade, between the years of 1943 and 1945. It is the most extensive work of the author, being composed of 55 poems, and considered the first mature work and extensive social expression of lyricism and modernism in Brazil. The work is considered by some as a translation and interpretation of the living time of the author, reflecting not only the individual author at the age and time in which he lived in, but as a collective of the people in Brazilian Society.\n\n\"'A Rosa do Povo\" had been written during the Second World War, in a time where Nazi Germany had been losing battles and retreating from the Eastern Front due to the increasing advance of Russian Troops, foreshadowing the eventual Surrender of Nazi Germany and the end and Aftermath of World War II. Meanwhile, in Brazil Getúlio Vargas had established the new Estado Novo (Brazil) government, though economically innovating, had been losing popular support and inspired the author to take in different approaches and views toward Brazilian Life and Society.\n"}
{"id": "1017503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1017503", "title": "As the Stomach Turns", "text": "As the Stomach Turns\n\n\"As the Stomach Turns\" is a series of comedy sketches parodying the soap opera \"As the World Turns\" featured on \"The Carol Burnett Show\", with one installment airing on \"Carol Burnett & Company\". The sketch was created by show writers Kenny Solms and Gail Parent. \"The Carol Burnett Show\" introduced the series during its first season in 1967–68 and continued to air new installments for the remainder of its 11-season run, through its final season in 1977–78. However, the final installment of \"As the Stomach Turns\" would not air until September 8, 1979, on a different four-week summer series titled \"Carol Burnett & Company\". This was the only installment of \"As the Stomach Turns\" that did not air on \"The Carol Burnett Show\" which had completed its run almost a year and a half earlier on March 29, 1978.\n\nThe sketch's premise was to describe, in great detail, the problems of a woman in her 30s named Marion (played by Carol Burnett), who lived in the fictional town of Canoga Falls. The first installment aired on the 21st episode of the first season on February 12, 1968. As introduced by Lyle Waggoner, it was supposed to be the final episode of a 15-year long soap opera, and in this sketch Marion's last name was Clayton.\n\nThe sketch dealt with problems that were more likely to be seen on a soap opera than in real life. For example, Marion's niece Raven (played by Bernadette Peters in a guest spot) came to visit her and was possessed by the devil, Marion assumed, because Raven was such a nice girl normally. The town exterminator/freelance exorcist (played by Tim Conway, using the same faux-Romanian dialect that he would use to play character Mr. Tudball) was forced to exorcise the demon from her body, a story that was eventually done, in all seriousness, on \"Days of Our Lives\" decades later.\n\nThe sketch also touched on stereotypical aspects of production values in American soaps. Many times, Marion forgot what she wanted to say, reminiscent of the times when soap operas were broadcast live and actors routinely forgot their next line. Marion also answered the door either too soon or too late when someone rang her doorbell. Other times, she would miss the correct time to answer the phone, saying \"Hello\" before the sound effect came for it to ring. On live soap opera productions, these were big problems; due to the live nature of the show, they happened fairly frequently, and were subsequently spoofed at length on \"The Carol Burnett Show\".\n\nIn addition to the missed cues, the sketch was notorious for overusing loud and plangent organ music, a reference to a time when soap operas would have in-house organists play dramatic music as well as the show's theme song (when this skit first ran, organ music was still in wide use on the serials). Organ music was eventually discontinued in the mid-1970s, around the time \"The Carol Burnett Show\" wrapped up its run, so when the sketch is seen in syndication today, it brings back a sense of production technique that is now seen by many younger soap viewers as archaic and outdated.\n\nOne of the sketch's recurring characters is Marion's \"ne'er-do-well\" daughter (played by Vicki Lawrence) who arrives at the door holding a baby (a doll), usually says \"Don't you recognize me mother? I'm your daughter,\" then leaves after giving the baby to Marion who immediately stashes it in the umbrella stand. This was a parody of the fact that traditional soap operas have little use for child characters, either dropping them from the plot line shortly after they are introduced or unnaturally aging them into adulthood or, more recently, into the teenage years (for example, a young character might be sent upstairs to put on his or her shoes and never be referred to again).\n\nThe sketch also marks the first appearances of Harvey Korman's Mother Marcus character, who had also become a recurring resident of Canoga Falls, as well as Tim Conway's oldest man character.\n\nThe sketch was famous for the parody ending in which the announcer would ask foreboding, progressively nonsensical questions about the characters while focusing on their puzzled reactions.\n\n"}
{"id": "20323287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20323287", "title": "Asian Film Archive", "text": "Asian Film Archive\n\nBased in Singapore the Asian Film Archive is a non-governmental organisation founded in 2005 to preserve the film heritage of Asian Cinema, to encourage scholarly research on film, and to promote a wider critical appreciation of this art form. The archive has collected more than 1,500 titles, with a focus on classic Asian films and contemporary independent works from Southeast Asia. The Archive's outreach programmes encourage film literacy and find new audiences for films in its collection.\n\nNotable films in the collection include the Malay Classics Collection: \"\" by (1961), \"\" by and (1967) and \"\" by (1958); \"Evolution of a Filipino Family\" by Lav Diaz (2004); \"Blink of an Eye\" by Mike de Leon (1981); \"Manila in the Claws of Neon\" by Lino Brocka (1975); \"The Arsonist\" by U-Wei Haji Saari (1995); \"The Big Durian\" by Amir Muhammad (2003); Da Huang Pictures Collection and the Woo Ming Jin Collection that document the works of the Malaysian New Wave filmmakers.\n\nThe Asian Film Archive is an affiliate of the International Federation of Film Archives (FIAF) and the Southeast Asia-Pacific Audiovisual Archive Association (SEAPAVAA). Amongst its international advisors are Ray Edmondson, David Bordwell and Apichatpong Weerasethakul.\n\nRenowned scholar, Patricia Zimmermann described the work of the Asian Film Archive in Afterimage: The Journal of Media Art & Cultural Criticism and on the Open Spaces blog.\n\nIn 2015, the Archive commissioned \"Fragment\", a film anthology by Lav Diaz, U-Wei Haji Saari, Sherman Ong and others. It premiered on 30 October at Singapore's The Projector.\n\nIn June 2010, a group of Singapore filmmakers, including Tan Pin Pin, Royston Tan and Kelvin Tong, protested AFA's head Tan Bee Thiam's supposed conflict of interest. Their letter led to Tan's resignation as executive director in September.\n\n\nAsian Film Archive at 5\n\n"}
{"id": "21676257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21676257", "title": "Assyrian culture", "text": "Assyrian culture\n\nAssyrian culture is that of the Assyrians, an Eastern Aramaic-speaking people indigenous to Upper Mesopotamia. The Assyrian people gradually converted from the ancient Mesopotamian religion to East Syrian Rite Christianity between the 1st and 4th centuries AD (although the final traces of Mesopotamian religion did not die out until as late as the 17th century AD), and many Assyrian cultural practices today are linked to their Christian faith, together with their ancient Mesopotamian ancestry and language.\n\nMany Assyrians (estimates of fluent speakers range from 500,000) still speak, read and write distinct Akkadian influenced dialects of Eastern Aramaic. They are predominantly adherents of the Assyrian Church of the East, Syriac Orthodox Church and the Ancient Church of the East. Some are followers of the Assyrian Pentecostal Church and Assyrian Evangelical Church. A few Assyrians, though, are secular or irreligious.\n\nThroughout the years, Assyrians celebrate many different kinds of traditions within their communities, with the majority of the traditions being tied to religion some way. Some include feasts (Syriac: hareh) for different patron saints, the Nineveh Rogation (), Ascension day (Syriac: Kaalu d-Sulaqa), and the most popular, the Kha b-Nisan ().\nSome of these traditions have been practiced by the Assyrians for well over 1,500 years.\n\nThe Simele massacre (: \"Premta d-Simele\") was the first of many committed by the Iraqi government during the systematic targeting of Assyrian of Northern Iraq in August 1933. The killing spree that continued among 63 Assyrian villages in the Dohuk and Mosul districts, led to the deaths of an estimated 3,000 Assyrians.\n\nAugust 7 officially became known as \"Martyrs Day\" or \"National Day of Mourning\" by the Assyrian community in memory for the Simele massacre, as it was declared so by the Assyrian Universal Alliance in 1970. In 2004, the Syrian government banned the Assyrian political organization and the Assyrian community of Syria from commemorating the event, and threatened arrests if any were to break the ban.\n\nOn August 7, Assyrians in the homeland and in the diaspora get together in local community clubs, and share poems about the incident, revial new art work, etc.\n\nThe Assyrian new year festival, known as \"Resha'D Nisan\" (Literally Translated as the Start of Spring), is celebrated on first day of spring and continues for 12 days. \nCelebrations involve holding parades and parties. They also gather in clubs and social institutions and listen to the poets who recite \"the story of creation\". The men and women wear traditional clothes and dance in parks for hours.\nAfter the formation of the Turkish state, Resha'D Nisan along with the Kurdish Newrouz were banned from public to celebrate. Assyrians in Turkey were first allowed to publicly celebrate Resha'D Nisan in 2006, after organisers received permission from the government to stage the event, in light of democratic reforms adopted in support of Turkey's EU membership bid.\n\nThe Nineveh Feast (Syriac: Baoutha d-Ninwaye) is a three-day celebration that is composed of prayers and fasting that Assyrians of Church of the East, the Chaldean Catholic Church, the Syriac Orthodox Church, and the Syriac Catholic Church (as well as The Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church and Syro-Malankara Catholic Church in India) consider sacred. The word Bo'utho/Ba'uta is a Syriac word for \"pleading\", and from this meaning we receive the title of this commemoration. \nThis annual observance occurs exactly 3 weeks before the start of lent. This tradition has been practiced by the Syriac Christians since the 6th century.\n\nIn the 6th century, a plague inflicted the Northern regions of modern-day Iraq or what was called at the time, Nineveh. The plague was devastating the city and the villages surrounding it, and out of desperation the people ran to their bishop to find a solution. The bishop sought help through the scriptures and came upon the story of Jonah in the Old Testament.\n\nOn the third night the fish became violently ill and swam near to the seashore where it vomited Jonah onto the beach. Jonah thankful that he had been spared started on the journey to Nineveh. Reaching the walls of Nineveh, he began preaching to people as he walked through its streets, \"In forty days God will destroy this city because of your great sins.\" The king of Assyria became disturbed at the message that Jonah preached. He called his people together and commanded them to wear sackcloth clothing and to let neither man nor animals eat as the people prayed and repented of their wicked ways. All of the people of the city cried and prayed and asked God to forgive them for their sins. The city then was not destroyed.\n\nUpon looking at the story the bishop therefore ordered a 3-day fast to ask for God's forgiveness. At the end of the 3-day fast, the plague had miraculously stopped, therefore, on the 4th day the people rejoiced.\n\nTo this day, Assyrians of both faiths, Catholic and Orthodox, both in their original lands and in the diaspora, still observe the fast 3 days each year.\n\nSomikka shares some common themes with the American festival of Halloween, but its meaning is very much different. The main purpose of Somikka is to motivate and discipline Assyrian children to fast during Lent. This is done by scaring children into the discipline of observing lent, when people would abstain from eating eggs, meat and any dairy or animal products for the seven weeks preceding Easter.\n\nThe evening before the fast began, or what is called \"Somikka night\" (Assyrian: Laleh d'Somikka), small groups of young men would dress in scary Halloween like clothes, wearing masks and also carry accessories such as wooden swords and shields. \nThese men then would knock on Assyrian homes and scare the children into fasting. The parents in return would give the \"Somikka\" money (food items in the old times) and tell their children that this was to bribe Somikka off them. They would also warn them that if they broke their fast during Lent, Somikka would come and punish them with misery and a hard life. To the permissive Western mind, this might seem a little abusive, or even cruel. But in the Eastern World, discipline was the hallmark of raising children to grow up into God-fearing and upright adults.\n\nAssyrian Villages in Urmia had another custom relating to Lent. The head of every family would stick seven colored feathers into a large onion, the feathers representing the seven weeks of fasting. He would then tie the feathered onion with a string and hang it from the ceiling of their living room, where it would spin every time there was a draft when the door was opened. This attracted attention and served to remind the children of the fast. Every Sunday night he would remove, ceremoniously, one feather to indicate that one week of fasting was over, until all the feathers were gone by Easter night, the last day of fasting, before celebrating the Lord’s Resurrection.\n\nThe legend of Kalu d’Sulaqa/Kaltho d'Suloqo tells of a young Malik Shalita, governor of the Assyrian homeland’s capital Mosul, who was first noticed by Tamerlane after he had successfully fought and defeated his initial attack on the city. The battle is then described as Assyrian freedom fighters, both Christian and Muslim, defended against the Mongolian attack.\n\nIt was during this time that, according to legend, Malik Shalita’s wife organized Assyrian women dressed in white, and was given the responsibility to collect provisions from the nearby towns in order to feed the men fighting at the front. Having heard of the fate that had befallen their countrymen in Tikrit and Mardin, they knew very well the fate in store for them if they were to lose this battle. Instead of running and hiding the women prepared for the battle and joined the ranks of the defenders against hopeless odds.\n\nThe historical account is in keeping with the legend, as both describe a brutal battle of attrition, in which both men and women joined together and defended themselves against Tamerlane’s attack. Malik Shalita and his wife - according to the legend dressed in white – are recorded as having been killed in this fateful battle.\n\nThe Assyrian historian Arsanous states that the young boys and girls represent the dead young men and women who ascended to heaven because they died for the cause of Christianity and in defence of their homeland. The tragic nature of the 1401 event had left such an indelible impression on the minds of the survivors that they remembered the final battle and have honoured the memory of the fallen by re-enacting the camaraderie of the Assyrian men and women who died defending their homeland.\n\nThere are many traditional practices that Assyrians observe when celebrating Kalu Sulaqa (Ascension Day). Most commonly, in Hakkari, prior to the First World War, girls in each village would gather and choose the prettiest one among them to be the Kalu d- Sulaqa / Kaltho d-Suloqo (the Bride of the Ascension) for that year. She would be dressed in a traditional Assyrian wedding costume and then paraded around the village singing and asking for \"gawzeh w-kishmeesheh/yabeesheh\" (walnuts and raisins), which they would then share amongst themselves in a feast held afterwards in honour of the ‘bride’.\n\nAssyrians would celebrate this day like any other “Shahra / Shahro”, with music, dancing, food and drink - but also a few differences. Apart from the little girls dressed as brides there was also a peculiar custom practiced by Assyrians living in Hakkari, whereby ropes were tied to strong branches of large trees common to that district. After this was done, all those present would attempt to climb one, and any not doing so would mean bad luck for them, while anyone reaching the end of the rope and the branch would have the best of luck for the coming year. This was done to represent the Ascension of Christ into Heaven and the eventual resurrection of the dead and final judgment. This custom is seldom practiced today apart from certain areas in the northernmost extremities of Iraq.\n\nIn Urmi, on the other hand, it was customary for the little girls in the villages to dress as brides and when doing their rounds of their villages would also ask for pennies or trinkets - although this is only a reflection of the generally greater wealth of the Assyrians in the plains of that region.\n\nIt is also said that the very same custom was used during fierce battles. Young girls, dressed as brides, were ordered to take provisions to the men fighting on the battlefield. Their mothers, knowing that they may never return, used this custom to instill courage in their young daughters.\n\nIn Syria young girls and boys would join together and form a couple, dressed as bride and a groom, and then go from door to door, singing. They were usually rewarded, not with money or candy, but rather people would give pirdha (wheat), rice, fruits, and so on, then at the end the children would go out to a field to cook and eat what they had collected on the day.\n\nThis custom, peculiar to members of the Church of the East and the Chaldean Catholic Church, survives in these communities worldwide and is always marked by a party, often women only. It is also a new custom to hold a mock wedding reception. It is held just like any other traditional Assyrian wedding reception - khigga, slow dance, dinner, cake and all, the only difference being that the Bride, Groom, Best-Man and Matron-of-Honour are all young girls.\n\nAssyrian rituals consist of many different types of elements that have shaped today's modern rituals for the past 3,000 years. An Assyrian wedding traditionally lasted a week and consisted of different rituals for each day. Today, weddings in the Assyrian homeland usually last for 2 to 3 days while Assyrian weddings in the diaspora go for 1 or 2 days. During the wedding reception most women have a Yalikhta to dance with different colors and noises to distract evil spirits.\n\nA week before the Marriage all the women of the neighborhood and the women in the family go to house of the bride and make her a very big honeymoon blanket. Everybody had to make sure they sewed a bit of that blanket. So the needle would be passed from one woman to the other and this way all the women sewed a bit. The younger women would dance around it and the older women would sing and dance khigga. During the party food and sweets are served, and the party ends when the blanket was done.\n\nAlso referred to as \"khyapta d'khitna\" or \"zyapta d'khitna\". Before the wedding all the men in the neighborhood and the men who are related to the groom \ngo to his house and they cut his hair and shave his face. The groom's male relatives give a him a good scrubbing from head to toe, cleaning him of \"evilness\". A young boy is usually bathed first, typically by his mother or aunts, then the groom takes a shower or bath afterwards.\n\nBride price (\"niqda\") is commonly practiced, even among those who reside in the western world. The tradition would involve the bridegroom's family paying to the father of the bride. The amount of money of the niqda is reached at by negotiation between groups of people from both families. The social state of the groom's family influences the amount of the bridewealth that's ought to be paid. When the matter is settled to the contentment of both menages, the groom's father may kiss the hand of the bride's father to express his chivalrous regard and gratitude.\n\nA tradition symbolic of the bride leaving the home of her parents. Usually the bride is in her home taking pictures with family and the groom's family visits to take her out of the home and to the church. While in the house, the women sing tradition lilyaneh and dola and zurna is played as they dance. Before the bride leaves the house, a member of the bride's family usually a cousin, niece/nephew, uncle/aunty etc ... stands at the door and receives an amount of money from a member of the grooms family usually a Father, or brother, the amount is decided by who's holding the door.\n\nThe wedding tradition where the bride and groom are blessed by a priest in a church. The burakha traditionally lasted about four hours, but more recently the event goes for about one hour. Pins in the shape of two crosses are usually placed on the groom's back. There are some details during the ceremony that differ from village to village. The Assyrians of the village of Baz are known to have someone poke the groom with a needle to ward off any evil spirits while Assyrian from the village of Tyari make noise with the cutting motion of scissors to ward off evil spirits. At the end of the burakha as the bride and groom are coming out of the church, dola and zorna is played while rice, candies, and coins are thrown at the bride and groom and people take part in traditional Assyrian dances.\n\nHenna is mud-like material that is prepared on the day before the wedding. On night for the wedding, in the old days all the ladies would gather at the house of the bride (but nowadays it's mixed, also male relatives and family friends are invited.) A bowl is filled with henna. Henna is celebrated differently throughout the Assyrian community.\nIn some areas, whoever holds the bowl with the henna will dance with it around the others. \nThe groom and bride put in the bowl their little finger and their little finger will be wrapped and connected to each other by a ribbon.\nIn other areas, everyone is given a turn to wrap his finger with henna, and after everyone, the person that is getting henna in his hand starts the chant of praise for the future couple, as everyone else follows him.\n\nThe burial rituals of the Assyrians is described by Surma D'Bait Mar Shimun and the manner by which Assyrians of the highland cared for their dead relatives resemble what Olmsted wrote about how the ancient Assyrian cared for theirs. Surma wrote: \"In some districts-as in Tkhuma for instance - food is also placed on the graves and in this valley the graves are often made with a little niche in the side of them both for this purpose and for the putting of the light.\" About the burial customs of the ancient Assyrians Olmsted writes: \"always the lamp was left in a niche, and even the smoke can still be seen. A large water jar, a jug, and several dishes formed the remainder of the equipment needed for the after-life...\" Surma further adds; On the morning of the resurrection day before day light Assyrians in the highland visited the graves of their loved ones and lighted tapers on their resting site. The usual greeting at this time was \"light to your departed\".\n\nIn the modern tradition, the mourning family host guests in an open house style just after a loved one passes way. Only bitter coffee and tea are served, showcasing the sorrowful state of the family. Symbolically, some will not drink the coffee in front of them at all. On the funeral day, a memorial mass is held in the church. At the graveyard, the people gather and burn incense around the grave as clergy chant hymns in the Syriac language. The closest female relatives traditionally bewail or lament (\"bilyaya\") in a public display of grief, with some beating their chest, as the casket descends. Other women may sing a dirge or a sentimental threnody (\"jnana\", which are short, rhymed chants) to passionately heighten the mood of the mourning at the cemetery. Zurna and davul may be used if the departed is a young, unmarried male.\n\nDuring all these occasions, everyone is expected to dress in complete black, passively informing the community that they have recently buried a loved one. Following the burial, everyone would return to the church hall for afternoon lunch and eulogy. At the hall, the closest relatives sit on a long table facing the guests (akin to a bridegroom’s table at a wedding) as many people walk by before leaving shaking hands, offering their condolences. At the hall, dates and halva may served to offer some \"sweetness\" in the bitter grieving period. On the third day, mourners would customarily visit the grave site with a pastor to burn incense, symbolising Jesus’ triumph over death on the third day, and 40 days after the funeral (representing Jesus ascending to heaven), and in conclusion one year to the date. Mourners also wear only black until the 40 day mark, with no jewellery and would typically not dance or celebrate any major events for one year.\n\nMany Assyrians give traditional Assyrian names associated with the names of kings and queens as first names, along with Syriac and Biblical names.\n\nSome popular male Assyrian given names are: Ashur, George, Gewargis, Hano, Samano, Naramsin, Ramsin, Sargon, Sargis, Ninos, Ramin, Dawid, Benyamin, Banipal, Shmuel, Zaya, Orahim/Avrahim/Oraha, Shimun, Elia, Abgar, Addai/Aday, Apram/Aphrem, Bardaisan, Hunain, Yukhanna, Yonan, Younan, Yatrin, Yoel, Petros/Patrus, Gabriel, Yacob/Yaqub, Eshaya, Nimrud, Daniel, Yousip, Dinkha, Eshai/Ishai, Moushe, Thoma, Tulmay, Yahballaha, Dadisho/Dadishu, Narsai, Ishoyahb, Aho, Isho, Sharbel, Sharo, Sabrisho/Sabrishu, Belo, Eliya, Shalim, Bilgamish, Hammurabi, Sinharib/Sennacherib, Ninsun, Adam, Ashurdan, Ninev/Nineb, Sada, Shima, Ezekiel, Atur, Goru, Patu, Beniel, Matti, Mari, Hedo/Haydoo, Odisho/Odishu, Eshu/Esho, Ilishu and Shalita.\n\nSome popular female Assyrian given names are: Nineveh/Ninva, Dinah/Deena, Martha, Arbella, Sharukina, Nuhadra, Nouhra, Nahrain, Waleeta, Semiramis/Shamiram/Shamiran, Ishtar, Nina, Ninurta, Sarah, Siduri, Suriya, Ninlil, Atour, Aramina/Ramina, Ashourina, Khammi, Mona, Mariam, Esmar, Helena, Bartilla, Bakhdida, Deeana, Larsa, Sona, Surma, Khannah, Khava, Fabronia, Glima, Lilitu/Lilith, Talitha, Samantha and Arbilina.\n\nAssyrian surnames may have a \"Bit\", \"Bet\" or \"Ben\" in front of them, simply meaning \"house of\" or \"son of.\"\n\nSome popular Assyrian surnames are: Ashur, Hadad, Shamash, Atturayeh, Warda, Adam, Younan, Yonan, Pityou, Iyyar, Dayan/Daian, Alakko, Mamo, Yaqu, Shlaimun, Yokhannan, Giwargis/Gewargis/Givargis, Odishu/Odisho/Odichou, Hormizd/Hormis, Qawila, Dinkha, Denha, Kinkha, Dadishu, Ruwal, Agassi, Thoma, Mansur, Guzi, Sliwa/Sliwo, Aziz, Choushino, Youkhanna, Kasha, Khano, Parto, Sargis, Shmuni, Bar Sabbaye, Bishu, Sawa, Sabrishu, Zaya, Bar Ishaq, Ishu/Esho, Bar Saliba/Saliba, Bar Hibraius, Bar Mokates, Malek, Bet Qinyana, Arad, Sheenu/Shinu, Gabriel, Daniel, Malka, Malki, Graish, Bet Abraham, Abraham/Avrahim, Samano, Khiyyo, Shimun, Barkho, Akbalit/Akbalut, Sarmas, Hasaddo, Jendo, Mardo, Nisan/Neesan, Bar Sabaee, Hedo/Haydoo, Khoshaba, David/Dawid, Sharo, Abdishu/Abdisho, Balu, Jannu, Belo, Akkad, Somo, Danili, Khamur, Sorishu, Dudashu, Mishail/Mishael/Michael, Moushe, Malishu, Sulaqa, Khanna/Hanna, Naby, Yaqub, Khnanisho, Knaninyah, Bazi, Enwiya, Awia, Shammo, Shimun, Shlemun, Ezekiel, Oshana/Ochana, Oraha, Daniel, Elia, Yonadam, Yokhanis, Murza, Shabo, Homeh, Lazar, Tamraz, Mikho, Emmanuel, Sayad, Aho, Oshalim, Kakku/Kako, Talia, Kanna, Adamo, Rashu/Rasho, Bassoo, Khananishu, Ashita, Khaya, Mannu, Khammo/Khamu, Birkhu/Birkho, Israel, Asia, Yona, Chikko, Keno/Kinu, Babu/Baboo, Ammo Baba, Rasho, Tyareh, Eshtarzin, Kasri, Tkhoma, Yalda, Nochiya, Kiko and Hadodo.\n\n"}
{"id": "5124292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5124292", "title": "Attack from Atlantis", "text": "Attack from Atlantis\n\nAttack From Atlantis (1953) is a science fiction novel written by Lester del Rey. The story follows the new \"U.S.S. Triton\" submarine on her maiden voyage, but trouble happens when the crew comes face to face with the inhabitants of the underwater city Atlantis.\n\n\"Attack from Atlantis\" is one of the thirty-five juvenile novels that comprise the Winston Science Fiction set, which novels were published in the 1950s for a readership of teen-aged boys. The typical protagonist in these books was a boy in his late teens who was proficient in the art of electronics, a hobby that was easily available to the readers.\n\nThe story is set partly on the atomic powered submarine Triton. In the foreword, titled \"Land Under the Sea\", the author, although not a proper scientist, mentions the first real-life atomic sub: \"The Nautilus is already being built. And just as this is being written, word has come that the first tests of an atomic power plant for the ship have been successful\" (ix). del Rey spends quite some time in his novel trying to explain the difference between the engine on the real nuclear submarine of the Nautilus and that of his own, fictional \"U.S.S. Triton\".\n\nCertain crystals obtained from undersea volcanoes, when stimulated by small amounts of electricity, generate a forcefilm bubble that excludes liquids and solids with unlimited force. During the last Ice Age the Cro-Magnon ancestors of the Atlanteans discovered the forcefilm bubbles by accident, but then, through trial and error, developed the technology that enabled them to use the bubbles to live under the sea.\n\nAt age seventeen, Don Miller is already an accomplished electronics technician, helping his uncle, Dr. Edward Simpson, with the testing of a new kind of submarine, the \"Triton I\". Accompanied everywhere by his dog Shep, a schipperke, he has assumed that he would be aboard the boat for its sea trials, though he mans the communications gear on the surface support ship during the submarine's first test run somewhere south of Puerto Rico. That test run is commanded by Dr. Oliver Drake, who designed the submarine's new nuclear propulsion system. The test run is successful, in spite of some problems with the control systems and stress on certain crew members that has made them believe that they have seen, on the television screens that give a view of the outside of the submarine, men encased in form-fitting bubbles.\n\nFor the full test run the Triton will descend into the Milwaukee Deep, north of Puerto Rico. Because the United States Navy has taken an interest in Triton and has partly funded her development, the commanding officer on the test run will be Admiral Robert Haller. Dexter, the president's science advisor, and Senator Kenney are to accompany the crew as observers. Another of the observers going along is Sid Upjohn, a reporter. As they descend they find that they are losing control of the boat and, further, that they are being rammed by a whale. Unable to maneuver, they come down on an undersea plateau, twelve hundred fathoms (7200 feet) below the surface. Again they catch glimpses of men encased in bubbles, something that should be impossible. Emerging from the submarine in a bathysuit, Don makes the necessary repairs and the Triton leaves the plateau to head for the surface.\n\nNow the bubble-men attack openly in full force, cementing rocks to Triton's hull to drive her down again. Again the crew bring their boat down on the plateau where they had stopped for repairs. Again Don prepares to go out in the bathysuit to remove the rocks, but the bubble-men, which the crew have taken to calling Atlanteans, have sealed the hatch through which the bathysuit must emerge. As the crew watches helplessly through their closed-circuit televisions, the Atlanteans attach thick ropes to the submarine and then bring in ichthyosaurs that have evolved to breathe water to tow the boat off the plateau. As they pull Triton deeper, the Atlanteans envelope the boat in a forcefilm bubble, obliging the navigator, Kayne, to shut down the engines. Even with the boat being towed, without power, the helmsman, Paul Cavanaugh, continues to steer the boat to give them a smoother ride.\n\nThree miles below the surface they come to a town of about 20,000 people that they call Atlantis. Lying under a larger version of the bubbles that enclose the people surrounding the submarine, the town is illuminated by some phosphorescent substance. There Triton is towed through the forcefilm dome that covers the town and into a pool large enough to accommodate her. Then the Atlanteans break into the boat and take the crew prisoner, knocking them out with some kind of electric stungun.\n\nDon regains consciousness in a cell where he meets Muggins, an American whom the Atlanteans had rescued from a ship sunk in the war, fifty years previously. Muggins tells Don that the people call their town Mlayanu and he introduces him to K'mith, the president of Mlayanu. Don discovers that K'mith, his family, and several other Atlanteans speak English, having learned it from Muggins in order to read the books that they find in sunken ships and to understand the radio messages that they pick up occasionally through a floating antenna.\n\nBecause Shep resembles the dog-god that the more superstitious Atlanteans worship, it is decided that Don and Shep will live with K'mith and his family. In K'mith's home he meets K'mith's wife and twelve-year-old daughter and his nephew S'neifa, the son of his deceased older brother K'mayo, who had rescued Muggins. As Don gets settled into K'mith's house, S'neifa tells him how an outcast European tribe, some 28,000 years ago, made some accidental discoveries that enabled them to live underwater and develop the Atlantean civilization. Because he's under eighteen, the Atlanteans assume that Don is uneducated, but S'neifa suspects and then confirms the truth. He then gives Don a copy of a radio message that the Atlanteans have picked up: it tells Don that the garbled distress call from Triton had been misinterpreted and that the United States has accused another country of capturing the submarine.\n\nLater Don goes for a walk with Shep and finds the building where the town's dome is created and controlled open and unguarded. Sneaking around inside the building, he discerns how the system works and he takes a discarded diagram as he leaves. That evening he takes the diagram to show to Dr. Drake and his uncle. Little can be gleaned from the diagram, but the men do discern that the forcefilm could protect a city from a nuclear attack. Returning to K'mith's house, Don tells K'mith of the discovery, but K'mith already knows about it. As for Don's plea to let the Triton and her crew return to the surface, K'mith shows Don another intercepted radio message: the United States and the country it had accused of taking the Triton have exchanged ultimatums and nuclear war is less than a week away.\n\nThat night S'neifa brings Don a bubble suit so that he can free the Triton's crew from the small bubble-dome in which they are imprisoned. At a certain signal S'neifa will activate the forcefilm bubble around Triton so that she can escape her confinement in Mlayanu. All goes well until several fights break out. Kayne and Senator Kenney reach the submarine, board her, and give the signal. S'neifa activates the forcefilm and Kayne takes the boat out of Mlayanu, leaving Don and the rest of the crew behind to be recaptured. Later Kayne and Kenney are brought into the jail, having been recaptured just after reaching the surface.\n\nKept in a cell separate from the rest of Triton's crew, Don asks Muggins to bring him some metal tubing and tools so that he can make a tin whistle to pass the time. He then makes an ultrasonic dog whistle, which he uses to call Shep. After several incidents when Shep comes at his call the dog is chained up and then begins to howl when Don calls him. An angry mob forces K'mith and the dome technicians to allow Don to designate the dome-control building as the dog-god's shrine. Don then uses a signal generator that he had retrieved from Triton to modulate the current creating the dome forcefilm, causing a loud hum and salt rain to come from the dome and terrify the mob. Don then discovers that K'mith has had his own agenda which meshes perfectly with what Don had intended: the Atlanteans have been unable to find any more of the crystals that they need and he had hoped that scientists on the surface world might be able to make more. Don assures him that they can and will. Thus Don and the crew of the Triton are released and the Triton, fitted with a forcefilm that will allow the boat's engines to run when it is turned on, leave Myalanu with K'mith and S'neifa aboard.\n\n\nWriting in \"The New York Times\", Villiers Gerson received the novel favorably, saying \"The virtue of Mr. Del Rey's book is in his handling of his characters.\" Reviewer Groff Conklin praised the novel for its \"swift pacing, vivid imagination, real characters and absence of juvenile melodrama.\" P. Schuyler Miller found it unimpressive, however, \"notches below\" del Rey's earlier \"Marooned on Mars\".\n\n\nGo to the Internet Archive to read the text online. This version has the foreword, Land Under the Sea. (Retrieved: 2014 Mar 30)\n"}
{"id": "1488043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1488043", "title": "Bootleg recording", "text": "Bootleg recording\n\nA bootleg recording is an audio or video recording of a performance that was not officially released by the artist or under other legal authority. The process of making and distributing such recordings is known as bootlegging. Recordings may be copied and traded among fans of the artist without financial exchange, but some bootleggers have sold recordings for profit, sometimes by adding professional-quality sound engineering and packaging to the raw material. Bootlegs usually consist of either unreleased studio recordings, live performances or interviews with an unpredictable level of quality.\n\nThe concept of releasing unauthorised performances had been established before the 20th century, but reached new levels of popularity with Bob Dylan's \"Great White Wonder\", a compilation of studio outtakes and demos released in 1969 using low-priority pressing plants. The following year, the Rolling Stones' \"Live'r Than You'll Ever Be\", an audience recording of a late 1969 show, received a positive review in \"Rolling Stone\". Subsequent bootlegs became more sophisticated in packaging, particularly the Trademark of Quality label with William Stout's cover artwork. Compact disc bootlegs first appeared in the 1980s, and internet distribution became increasingly popular in the 1990s.\n\nChanging technologies have affected the recording, distribution, and varying profitability of the underground industry. The copyrights for the song and the right to authorise recordings often reside with the artist, according to several international copyright treaties. The recording, trading and sale of bootlegs continues to thrive, however, even as artists and record companies attempt to provide officially released alternatives to satisfy the demand.\n\nThe word \"bootleg\" originates from the practice of smuggling illicit items in the legs of tall boots, particularly the smuggling of alcohol during the American Prohibition era. The word, over time, has come to refer to any illegal or illicit product. This term has become an umbrella term for illicit, unofficial, or unlicensed recordings, including vinyl LPs, silver CDs, or any other commercially sold media or material. The alternate term ROIO (an acronym meaning \"Recording of Indeterminate / Independent Origin) or VOI (Video...) arose among Pink Floyd collectors, to clarify the recording source and copyright status was hard to determine.\n\nAlthough unofficial and unlicensed recordings had existed before the 1960s, the very first rock bootlegs came in plain sleeves with the title rubber stamped on it. However, they quickly developed into more sophisticated packaging, in order to distinguish the manufacturer from inferior competitors. With today's packaging and desktop publishing technology, even the layman can create \"official\" looking CDs. With the advent of the cassette and CD-R, however, some bootlegs are traded privately with no attempt to be manufactured professionally. This is even more evident with the ability to share bootlegs via the Internet.\n\nBootlegs should not be confused with \"counterfeit\" or \"unlicensed\" recordings, which are merely unauthorised duplicates of officially released recordings, often attempting to resemble the official product as close as possible. Some record companies have considered that \"any\" record issued outside of their control, and for which they do not receive payment, to be a counterfeit, which includes bootlegs. However, some bootleggers are keen to stress that the markets for bootleg and counterfeit recordings are different, and a typical consumer for a bootleg will have bought most or all of that artist's official releases anyway.\nThe most common type is the live bootleg, or audience recording, which is created with sound recording equipment smuggled into a live concert. Many artists and live venues prohibit this form of recording, but from the 1970s onwards the increased availability of portable technology made such bootlegging easier, and the general quality of these recordings has improved over time as consumer equipment becomes sophisticated. A number of bootlegs originated with FM radio broadcasts of live or previously recorded live performances. Other bootlegs may be soundboard recordings taken directly from a multi-track mixing console used to feed the public address system at a live performance. Artists may record their own shows for private review, but engineers may surreptitiously take a copy of this, which ends up being shared. As a soundboard recording is intended to supplement the natural acoustics of a gig, a bootleg may have an inappropriate mix of instruments, unless the gig is so large that everything needs to be amplified and sent to the desk.\n\nSome bootlegs consist of private or professional studio recordings distributed without the artist's involvement, including demos, works-in-progress or discarded material. These might be made from private recordings not meant to be widely shared, or from master recordings stolen or copied from an artist's home, a recording studio or the offices of a record label, or they may be copied from promotional material issued to music publishers or radio stations, but not for commercial release. A theme of early rock bootlegs was to copy deleted records, such as old singles and B-sides, onto a single LP, as a cheaper alternative to obtaining all the original recordings. Strictly speaking, these were unlicensed recordings, but because the work required to clear all the copyrights and publishing of every track for an official release was considered to be prohibitively expensive, the bootlegs became popular. Some bootlegs, however, did lead to official releases. The \"Who's Zoo\" bootleg, collecting early singles of The Who, inspired the official album \"Odds And Sods\", which beat the bootleggers by issuing unreleased material, while various compilations of mid-1960s bands inspired the \"Nuggets\" series of albums.\n\nAccording to enthusiast and author Clinton Heylin, the concept of a bootleg record can be traced back to the days of William Shakespeare, where unofficial transcripts of his plays would be published. At that time, society was not particularly interested in who a particular author was, but the \"cult of authorship\" became established in the 19th century, resulting the first Berne Convention in 1886 to cover copyright. The US did not agree to the original terms, resulting in many \"piratical reprints\" of sheet music being published there by the end of the century.\n\nDuring the early 20th century, film soundtracks were often bootlegged; if the officially released soundtrack had been re-recorded with a house orchestra, there would be demand for the original audio recording taken directly from the film. One example was a bootleg of Judy Garland performing \"Annie Get Your Gun\", before Betty Hutton replaced her early in production, but after a full soundtrack had been recorded. The Recording Industry Association of America took a dim view of unauthorised releases and attempted several raids on production. The Wagern-Nichols Home Recordist Guild recorded numerous performances at the Metropolitan Opera House, and openly sold them without paying royalties to the writers and performers. The company was sued by the American Broadcasting Company and Columbia Records (who held the official rights to the recordings), who managed to obtain a court injunction against producing the record.\n\nThe first popular rock music bootleg resulted from Bob Dylan's activities between largely disappearing from the public eye after his motorcycle accident in 1966, and the release of \"John Wesley Harding\" at the end of 1967. After a number of artists had hits with Dylan songs that he had not officially recorded and released himself, demand increased for these recordings, particularly when they started airing on local radio in Los Angeles. Through various contacts in the radio industry, a number of pioneering bootleggers managed to buy a reel to reel tape containing a selection of unreleased Dylan songs intended for distribution for music publishers and wondered if it would be possible to manufacture them on an LP. They managed to convince a local pressing plant to press between 1,000 and 2,000 copies discreetly, paying in cash and avoiding using real names or addresses. Since the bootleggers could not commercially print a sleeve, due to it attracting too much attention from recording companies, the LP was issued in a plain white cover with \"Great White Wonder\" rubber stamped on it. Subsequently, Dylan became one of the most popular artists to be bootlegged with numerous releases.\nWhen The Rolling Stones announced their 1969 American tour, their first in the U.S. for several years, an enterprising bootlegger known as \"Dub\" decided to record some of the shows. He purchased a Sennheiser 805 \"shotgun\" microphone and a Uher 4000 reel to reel tape recorder specifically for recording the performances, smuggling them into the venues. The resulting bootleg, \"Live'r Than You'll Ever Be\", was released shortly before Christmas 1969, mere weeks after the tour had finished, and in January 1970 received a rave review in \"Rolling Stone\", who described the sound quality as \"superb, full of presence, picking up drums, bass, both guitars and the vocals beautifully ... it is the ultimate Rolling Stones album\". The bootleg sold several tens of thousands of copies, orders of magnitude more than a typical classical or opera bootleg, and its success resulted in the official release of the live album \"Get Yer Ya-Ya's Out!\" later in the year. \"Dub\" was one of the founders of the Trade Mark of Quality (TMOQ or TMQ) bootleg record label.\n\nDuring the 1970s the bootleg industry in the United States expanded rapidly, coinciding with the era of stadium rock or arena rock. Vast numbers of recordings were issued for profit by bootleg labels such as Kornyfone and TMQ. The large followings of rock artists created a lucrative market for the mass production of unofficial recordings on vinyl, as it became evident that more and more fans were willing to purchase them. In addition, the huge crowds which turned up to these concerts made the effective policing of the audience for the presence of covert recording equipment difficult. Led Zeppelin quickly became a popular target for bootleggers on the strength and frequency of their live concerts; \"Live on Blueberry Hill\", recorded at the LA Forum in 1970, was sufficiently successful to incur the wrath of manager Peter Grant. Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band recorded numerous concerts for radio broadcast in the 1970s, which resulted in many Springsteen bootlegs.\nSome bootleggers noticed rock fans that had grown up with the music in the 1960s wanted rare or unreleased recordings of bands that had split up and looked unlikely to reform. For instance, the release of \"Golden Eggs\", a bootleg of outtakes by The Yardbirds had proven to be so popular that the bootlegger had managed to interview the band's Keith Relf for the sequel, \"More Golden Eggs\". Archive live performances became popular; a 1970 release of Dylan's set with the Hawks (later to become The Band) at the Manchester Free Trade Hall in 1966 (incorrectly assumed to be the Royal Albert Hall for years) was critically and commercially successful owing to the good sound quality and the concert's historical importance.\n\nIn Los Angeles there were a number of record mastering and pressing plants that were not \"first in line\" to press records for the major labels, usually only getting work when the larger plants were overloaded. These pressing plants were more than happy to generate income by pressing bootlegs of dubious legality. Sometimes they simply hid the bootleg work when record company executives would come around (in which case the printed label could show the artist and song names) and other times secrecy required labels with fictitious names. For example, a 1974 Pink Floyd bootleg called \"Brain Damage\" was released under the name The Screaming Abadabs, which was one of the band's early names. Because of their ability to get records and covers pressed unquestioned by these pressing plants, bootleggers were able to produce artwork and packaging that a commercial label would be unlikely to issue – perhaps most notoriously the 1962 recording of The Beatles at the Star Club in Hamburg, which was bootlegged as \"The Beatles vs. the Third Reich\" (a parody on an early US album entitled \"The Beatles vs. the Four Seasons\"), or \"Elvis' Greatest Shit\", a collection of the least successful of Elvis Presley's recordings, mostly from film soundtracks.\n\nBootleg collectors in this era generally relied on \"Hot Wacks\", an annual underground magazine listing known bootlegs and information about recent releases. It provided the true information on bootlegs with fictitious labels, and included details on artists and track listings, as well as the source and sound quality of the various recordings.\n\nInitially, knowledge of bootlegs and where to purchase them spread by word of mouth. The pioneering bootlegger Rubber Dubber sent copies of his bootleg recordings of live performances to magazines such as \"Rolling Stone\" in an attempt to get them reviewed. When Dylan's record company, Columbia Records objected, Rubber Dubber counteracted he was simply putting fans in touch with the music without the intermediary of a record company. Throughout the 1970s most bootleg records were of poor quality, with many of the album covers consisting of nothing more than cheap photocopies. The packaging became more sophisticated towards the end of the decade and continued into the 1980s. Punk rock saw a brief entry into the bootleg market in the 1970s, particularly the bootleg \"Spunk\", a series of outtakes by The Sex Pistols. The album received a good review from Sounds' Chas de Whalley, who said it was \"an album that no self-respecting rock fan would turn his nose up at.\"\n\nThe 1980s saw the increased use of audio cassettes and videotapes for the dissemination of bootleg recordings, as the affordability of private dubbing equipment made the production of multiple copies significantly easier. Cassettes were also smaller, easier to ship, and could be sold or traded more affordably than vinyl. Cassette culture and tape trading, propelled by the DIY ethic of the punk subculture, relied on an honour system where people who received tapes from fellow traders made multiple copies to pass on to others within the community. For a while, stalls at major music gatherings such as the Glastonbury Festival sold mass copies of bootleg soundboard recordings of bands who, in many cases, had played only a matter of hours beforehand. However, officials soon began to counteract this illegal activity by making raids on the stalls and, by the end of the 1980s, the number of festival bootlegs had consequently dwindled.\n\nOne of the most critically acclaimed bootlegs from the 1980s is \"The Black Album\" by Prince. The album was to have been a conventional major-label release in late 1987, but on 1 December, immediately before release, Prince decided to pull the album, requiring 500,000 copies to be destroyed. A few advance copies had already shipped, which were used to create bootlegs. This eventually led to the album's official release. Towards the end of the 1980s, the \"Ultra Rare Trax\" series of bootlegs, featuring studio outtakes of the Beatles, showed that digital remastering onto compact disc could produce a high-quality product that was comparable with official studio releases.\n\nFollowing the success of \"Ultra Rare Trax\", the 1990s saw an increased production of bootleg CDs, including reissues of shows that had been recorded decades previously. In particular, companies in Germany and Italy exploited the more relaxed copyright laws in those countries by pressing large numbers of CDs and including catalogs of other titles on the inlays, making it easier for fans to find and order shows direct. Similarly, relaxed copyright laws in Australia meant that the most serious legal challenge to unauthorised releases were made on the grounds of trademark law by Sony Music Entertainment in 1993. Court findings were in favour of allowing the release of unauthorised recordings clearly marked as \"unauthorised\". The updated GATT 1994 agreement soon closed this so-called \"protection gap\" in all three aforementioned countries effective 1 January 1995.\n\nBy this time, the internet had increased in popularity, and bootleg review sites began to appear. The quality control of bootlegs began to be scrutinised, as a negative review of one could adversely harm sales. Bootlegs began to increase in size, with multi-CD packages being common. In 1999, a 4-CD set was released containing three and a half hours of recording sessions for the Beach Boys' \"Good Vibrations\", spanning seven months.\n\nThe tightening of laws and increased enforcement by police on behalf of the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and other industry groups—often for peripheral issues such as tax evasion—gradually drove the distributors of for-profit vinyl and CD bootlegs further underground. Physical bootlegging largely shifted to countries with laxer copyright laws with the results distributed through existing underground channels, open market sites such as eBay, and other specialised websites, though by the end of the decade, eBay had clamped down on bootlegs.\n\nThe late 1990s saw an increase in the free trading of digital bootlegs, sharply decreasing the demand for and profitability of physical bootlegs. The rise of audio file formats such as MP3 and Real Audio, combined with the ability to share files between computers via the internet made it simpler for bootleg collectors to exchange recordings. The arrival of Napster in 1999 made it easy to share bootlegs between a large computer network. Older analog recordings were converted to digital format, tracks from bootleg CDs were ripped to computer hard disks, and new material was created with digital recording of various types, and all of these types could now be easily shared. Instead of album-length collections or live recordings of entire shows, fans often now had the option of searching for and downloading bootlegs of individual songs. Artists gave a mixed reaction to bootleg sharing via the internet; Bob Dylan allowed fans to download archive recordings from his official website, while King Crimson's Robert Fripp and, infamously, Metallica were strongly critical of the ease in which Napster could circumvent the traditional channels of royalty payments.\n\nThe rise in popularity of the video sharing website YouTube has caused it to be a major carrier of bootleg recordings. YouTube's owner, Google believes that under the \"safe-harbor\" provision of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), it cannot be held responsible for content, allowing bootleg media to be hosted on it without fear of a lawsuit. As the technology to host videos is open and available, shutting down YouTube may simply mean the content migrates elsewhere. An audience recording of one of David Bowie's last concerts before he retired from touring in 2004 was uploaded to YouTube and received a positive review in \"Rolling Stone\". In 2010, YouTube removed a 15-minute limit on videos, which has allowed entire concerts to be uploaded by fans and bootleggers.\n\nThe Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works has protected the copyrights on literary, scientific, and artistic works since 1886. Article 9 of the Convention states that: \"Authors of literary and artistic works protected by this Convention shall have the exclusive right of authorising the reproduction of these works, in any manner or form. ... Any sound or visual recording shall be considered as a reproduction for the purposes of this Convention.\" This means a composer has performing rights and control over how derivative works should be used, and the rights are retained at least 50 years after death, or even longer. Even if a song is a traditional arrangement in the public domain, performing rights can still be violated. Where they exist, performers rights may have a shorter duration than full copyright; for example, the Rome Convention sets a minimum term of twenty years after the performance. This created a market for bootleg CDs in the late 1980s, containing 1960s recordings.\n\nIn the US, bootlegs had been a grey area in legality, but the 1976 Copyright Act extended copyright protection to all recordings, including \"all misappropriated recordings, both counterfeit and pirate\". This meant bootleggers would take a much greater risk, and several were arrested. Bootlegs have been prohibited by federal law (17 USC 1101) since the introduction of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act (URAA, PL 103-465) in 1994, as well as by state law. The federal bootleg statute does not pre-empt state laws, which also apply both prior to and since the passage of the federal bootleg statute. The \"US v. Martignon\" case challenged the constitutionality of the federal bootleg statute, and in 2004, U.S. District Judge Harold Baer Jr. struck down the port banning the sale of bootleg recordings of live music, ruling that the law unfairly grants a seemingly perpetual copyright period to the original performances. In 2007, Judge Baer's ruling was overruled, and the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit found that the anti-bootlegging statute was within the power of Congress.\n\nRecord companies have described bootlegs as \"grey area, live recordings\", describing them as \"semi-condoned\". Research into bootleg consumers found that they are committed fans of the artist; a study of Bruce Springsteen fans showed 80% felt some bootlegs were essential purchases despite owning every official release. Springsteen has said he understands why fans buy bootlegs, but dislikes the market due to the lack of quality control and making profit over pleasing fans. Frank Zappa hated bootlegs and wished to control his recordings, so he created the Beat The Boots boxed sets, each containing eight LPs that were direct copies of existing bootlegs. He set up a hotline for fans to report bootlegs and was frustrated that the FBI were not interested in prosecuting. The first set included \"As An Am Zappa\", in which he can be heard complaining about bootleggers releasing new material before he could.\n\nThroughout their career, the Grateful Dead were known to tolerate taping of the live shows. There was a demand from fans to hear the improvisations that resulted from each show, and the concept of taping shows appealed to the band's general community ethos. They were unique among bands in that their live shows tended not to be pressed and packaged as LPs, but remained in tape form to be shared between tapers. The group were strongly opposed to commercial bootlegging and policed stores that sold them, while the saturation of tapes among fans suppressed any demand for product. In 1985, the Dead, after years of tolerance, officially endorsed live taping of their shows, and set up dedicated areas that they believed gave the best sound recording quality. Other bands, including Pearl Jam, Phish and the Dave Matthews Band tolerate taping in a similar manner to the Dead, provided no profit is involved. Because of the questionable legality of bootlegs, fans have sometimes simply dubbed a bootleg onto tape and freely passed it onto others.\n\nMany recordings first distributed as bootleg albums were later released officially by the copyright holder. Provided the official release matches the quality of the bootleg, demand for the latter can be suppressed. One of the first rock bootlegs, containing John Lennon's performance with the Plastic Ono Band at the 1969 Toronto Rock and Roll Revival, was released officially as \"Live Peace in Toronto 1969\" by the end of the year, effectively killing sales of the bootleg. The release of Bob Dylan's 1966 \"\" concert on Vol. 4 of his Bootleg Series in 1998 included both the acoustic and electric sets, more than any bootleg had done.\n\nIn 2002, Dave Matthews Band released \"Busted Stuff\" in response to the Internet-fuelled success of \"The Lillywhite Sessions\" which they had not intended to release. Queen released 100 bootlegs for sale as downloads on the band's official website, with profits going to the Mercury Phoenix Trust. Although the recording of concerts by King Crimson and its guitarist Robert Fripp is prohibited, Fripp's music company Discipline Global Mobile (DGM) sells concert recordings as downloads, especially \"archival recordings\" produced from the recordings from the concerts' mixing consoles. With an even greater investment of sound engineering, DGM has released \"official bootlegs\", which are produced from one or more fan bootlegs. DGM's reverse engineering of the distribution-networks for bootlegs helped it to make a successful transition to an age of digital distribution, \"unique\" (in 2009) among music labels. In the 21st century, artists responded to the demand for recordings of live shows by experimenting with the sale of authorized bootlegs made directly from the soundboard, with a superior quality to an audience recording. Metallica, Phish and Pearl Jam have been regularly distributing instant live bootlegs of their concerts. In 2014, Springsteen announced he would allow fans to purchase a USB stick at concerts, which could be used to download a bootleg of the show.\n\nAccording to a report in \"Rolling Stone\", many artists have now concluded that the volume of bootlegged performances on YouTube in particular is so large that it is counterproductive to enforce it, and they should use it as a marketing tool instead. Music lawyer Josh Grier has said \"Most of the artists have kind of conceded to it.\" Justin Bieber has embraced the distribution of video clips via Twitter in order to increase his fanbase.\n\n\nNotes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2207417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2207417", "title": "Boston Blackie", "text": "Boston Blackie\n\nBoston Blackie is a fictional character created by author Jack Boyle (October 19, 1881 – October 1928). Blackie, a jewel thief and safecracker in Boyle's stories, became a detective in adaptations for films, radio and television—an \"enemy to those who make him an enemy, friend to those who have no friend.\"\n\nActor Chester Morris was the best-known Blackie, playing the character in 14 Columbia Pictures films (1941–1949) and in a 1944 NBC radio series. Boston Blackie is the role for which Morris is best remembered.\n\nWriter Jack Boyle grew up in Chicago, Illinois. While working as a newspaper reporter in San Francisco, he became an opium addict, was drawn into crime, and was jailed for writing bad checks. Later convicted of robbery, Boyle was serving a term in San Quentin when he created the character of Boston Blackie. The first four stories appeared in \"The American Magazine\" in 1914, with Boyle writing under the pen name \"No. 6066\". From 1917 to 1919, Boston Blackie stories appeared in \"The Red Book\" magazine, and from 1918 they were adapted for motion pictures.\n\nWhen Boston Blackie began to find success on the screen, Boyle edited the \"Red Book\" magazine stories into a book, \"Boston Blackie\" (1919). He revised and rearranged the order of the stories to create a cohesive narrative—a common practice at the time. This was the only appearance of Boston Blackie in book form, but his adventures continued to appear in periodicals.\n\nThe earliest Boston Blackie film adaptations were silent, dating from 1918 to 1927. Columbia Pictures revived the property in 1941 with \"Meet Boston Blackie\", a fast, 58-minute B movie starring Chester Morris. Although the running time was brief, Columbia gave the picture good production values and an imaginative director, Robert Florey. The film was successful, and a series followed.\n\nIn the Columbia features, Boston Blackie is a reformed jewel thief who is always suspected when a daring crime is committed. In order to clear himself, he investigates personally and brings the actual culprit to justice, sometimes using disguises. An undercurrent of comedy runs throughout the action/detective series.\n\nIn one of these films, \"After Midnight with Boston Blackie\", the character's real name was revealed to be Horatio Black.\n\nMorris gave the Blackie character his own personal charm: he could be light and flippant or stern and dangerous, as the situation demanded. His sidekick, the Runt, was always on hand to help his old friend. George E. Stone played Runt in all but the first and last films. Charles Wagenheim and Sid Tomack, respectively, substituted for Stone when he was not available.\n\nBlackie's friendly adversaries were Inspector Farraday of the police (played in all the films and the radio series by Richard Lane) and his assistant, Sergeant Matthews. Matthews was originally played as a hapless victim of circumstance by Walter Sande; he was replaced by Lyle Latell, who played it dumber, and then by comedian Frank Sully, who played it even dumber.\n\nBlackie and Runt were often assisted in their endeavors by their friends: the cheerful but easily flustered millionaire Arthur Manleder (almost always played by Lloyd Corrigan; Harry Hayden and Harrison Greene each played the role once), and the streetwise pawnbroker Jumbo Madigan (played by Cy Kendall or Joseph Crehan). A variety of actresses including Rochelle Hudson, Harriet Hilliard, Adele Mara and Ann Savage took turns playing various gal-Friday characters.\n\nThe films are highly typical of Columbia's B movies of the 1940s, with an assortment of veteran character actors (including Clarence Muse, Marvin Miller, George Lloyd, Byron Foulger), new faces on the way up (Larry Parks, Dorothy Malone, Nina Foch, Forrest Tucker, Lloyd Bridges) and stock-company players familiar from Columbia's features, serials, and short subjects (Kenneth MacDonald, George McKay, Eddie Laughton, John Tyrrell). The series was also a useful training ground for promising directors, including Edward Dmytryk, Oscar Boetticher, William Castle, and finally Seymour Friedman, who went on to work prolifically in Columbia's television department. The Boston Blackie series ran until 1949.\n\nConcurrent with the Columbia Pictures films, a \"Boston Blackie\" radio series—also starring Chester Morris—aired on NBC June 23 – September 15, 1944, as a summer replacement for \"Amos 'n' Andy\". Lesley Woods played Blackie's girlfriend Mary Wesley; Richard Lane played Inspector Farraday. Harlow Wilcox was the announcer for the 30-minute program.\n\nA new incarnation of the \"Boston Blackie\" radio series aired April 11, 1945 – October 25, 1950, starring Richard Kollmar. Maurice Tarplin played Inspector Farraday; Jan Miner was Mary. More than 200 half-hour episodes were transcribed and syndicated by Frederick Ziv to Mutual and other network outlets.\n\nKent Taylor starred in the Ziv-produced half-hour TV series \"The Adventures of Boston Blackie\". Syndicated in September 1951, it ran for 58 episodes, continuing in repeats over the following decade. Lois Collier appeared as Mary Wesley and Frank Orth was Inspector Farraday. The series was set in Los Angeles; Mary and Blackie had a dog named Whitie, and comedy sometimes took precedence over crime.\n\nTelevision historian Tim Brooks described \"Boston Blackie\" as \"a memorable B-grade television series … The term 'B' is used in all the best senses: a certain vitality and sense of humor substituted more than adequately for the normal criteria of expensive production and famous stars.\"\n\nScripter Stefan Petrucha and artist Kirk Van Wormer created the graphic novel \"Boston Blackie\" (Moonstone Books, 2002) with a cover by Tim Seelig. A jewel heist at a costume ball goes horribly wrong, and the five-year-old son of the wealthy Greene family disappears and is presumed dead; the body is never found. The main suspect is Boston Blackie, who is still haunted seven years later by what happened that night. Drawn back into the case, he finds that the truth of what happened that night is awash in a watery grave. A sequel to the graphic novel was published years later.\n\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n\n\nRadio shows\n"}
{"id": "32637705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32637705", "title": "Cedarburg Cultural Center", "text": "Cedarburg Cultural Center\n\nThe Cedarburg Cultural Center is located in the historic downtown of Cedarburg, Wisconsin. For more than 25 years it has provided a place for art, music and history to be shared with the community. The performance space presents a variety of music, theater and comedy. A free gallery surrounds the performance space with changing exhibits from local artists. The Center provides educational classes for children and adults in a variety of artistic mediums including photography, painting and ceramics. The Center can also be rented for business, club, or personal meetings, events and receptions.\n\nThe Cedarburg Cultural Center preserves the heritage of the area communities through the 1849 Kuhefuss House Museum, Cedarburg General Store Museum and restored 1920’s schoolroom. Tours and exhibits include the Architectural Treasures Tour, school tours and historical photo collections displays. The Center also supports the annual Strawberry and Wine & Harvest festivals.\n\nAccording to the website, \"The mission of the Cedarburg Cultural Center is to provide a gathering place to celebrate community, arts and local heritage.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "692992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=692992", "title": "Chinese folklore", "text": "Chinese folklore\n\nChinese folklore encompasses the folklore of China, and includes songs, poetry, dances, puppetry, and tales. It often tells stories of human nature, historical or legendary events, love, and the supernatural, or stories explaining natural phenomena and distinctive landmarks. Along with Chinese mythology it forms an important element in Chinese popular religion.\n\nThe main influences on Chinese folk tales have been Taoism, Confucianism and Buddhism. Some folktales may have arrived from Germany; others have no known western counterparts, but are widespread throughout East Asia. Chinese folktales include a vast variety of forms such as myths, legends, fables, etc. A number of collections of such tales, such as Pu Songling's \"Strange Stories from a Chinese Studio\", now remain popular. \n\nChinese folklore contains many symbolic folk meanings for the objects and animals within the folktales. One example of this is the symbolic meaning behind frogs and toads. In the \"Chinese myth of the Moon Goddess, Chang E\", frogs and toads are a symbol of wealth and prosperity as well as symbolize fertility, regeneration, yin, and immortality. Each Chinese folktale includes this kind of representation of various objects and animals and uses symbolic messages through its characters and usually strives to convey a message that instills the reader with some sort of virtuous insight. These messages are vital to Chinese culture and through these folktales, they will be passed down to future generations to also learn from.\n\nChinese folklore has provided inspiration for Chinese writers and poets for centuries. Folk songs which were originally partnered with dance and other styles of performing arts, provided inspiration for courtly poetry. Classical fiction began in the Han Dynasty and was modeled after oral traditions, while Yuan and Ming era dramatic plays were influenced by folk plays.\n\nChinese folklore has provided inspiration for visual imagery by Chinese weavers, painters and watercolorists, florists. One of the most striking examples is a silk funerary banner (circa 168 BC) that contains a number of stories from early China.\n\nModern iterations of traditional Chinese stories can be found internationally as well as in native Chinese literature. Laurence Yep's \"The Magic Paintbrush\", Maxine Hong Kingston's \"The Woman Warrior\", and Walt Disney Pictures' \"Mulan\" all borrow from Chinese folklore traditions.\n\nThe \"Classic of Poetry\", the earliest known Chinese collection of poetry, contains 160 folk songs in addition to courtly songs and hymns. One tradition holds that Confucius himself collected these songs, while another says that an emperor compiled them as a means to gauge the mood of the people and the effectiveness of his rule.\n\nIt is believed that Confucius did encourage his followers to study the songs contained in the \"Classic of Poetry\", helping to secure the \"Classic of Poetry\"'s place among the \"Five Classics\". After Confucian ideas became further entrenched in Chinese culture (after about 100 BCE), Confucius's endorsement led many scholars to study the lyrics of the \"Classic of Poetry\" and interpret them as political allegories and commentaries.\n\nAround the 1910s, Chinese folklore began to gain popularity as an area of study with the beginnings of the movement to formally adopt Vernacular Chinese as the language of education and literature. Because Vernacular Chinese was the dialect in which most folklore was created, this movement brought to scholars' attention the influences that Vernacular Chinese folklore had upon classical literature. Hu Shih of the Peking University, who had published several articles in support of the adoption of Vernacular Chinese, concluded that when Chinese writers drew their inspiration from folk traditions such as traditional tales and songs, Chinese literature experienced a renaissance. When writers neglected these sources, they lost touch with the people of the nation. A new emphasis on the study of folklore, Hu concluded, could therefore usher in a new renaissance of Chinese literature.\n\nThe Folksong Studies Movement became a key contributor to establishing Chinese Folklore as a modern academic discipline. This movement was founded by students and professors at Peking University in 1918. They were successful in creating a field of study that focused on literature pertaining to Chinese folklore and attempted to bring to light the early traditions and culture of Chinese folklore in order to reestablish China's national spirit. \n\nA rising sense of national identity was also partially responsible for spurring the new interest in traditional folklore. The first issue of the \"Folk-Song Weekly\", a publication issued by the Folk-Song Research Society, stated that \"Based on the folk songs, on the real feeling of the nation, a kind of new national poetry may be produced.\"\n\nSome folklore enthusiasts also hoped to further social reforms by their work. To help improve the condition of the Chinese people, it was believed, it was necessary to understand their ideas, beliefs, and customs. After China emerged from the Maoist period in the late 1970s, the state had an increasingly more accepting position toward academic research on China’s cultural traditions and folklore. Forbidden traditions and practices in early Chinese history were at this point in time becoming more relevant and accepted within the Chinese culture.\n\nPre-Communist and Communist thinkers were especially energetic in this belief. In the time leading up to the founding of the Communist Party of China, many folk songs and stories were collected by Communist thinkers and scholars. Often, they were reinvented and reinterpreted to emphasize such themes as the virtue of the working commoner and the evil of aristocracy, while stories that expressed praise for the emperor were frequently left out of Communist collections. Some folk tales and folk plays that exist today may in fact have been deliberately written by Communist authors to emphasize particular social morals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "228569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228569", "title": "Conversation", "text": "Conversation\n\nThe development of conversational skills and etiquette is an important part of socialization. The development of conversational skills in a new language is a frequent focus of language teaching and learning.\n\nConversation analysis is a branch of sociology which studies the structure and organization of human interaction, with a more specific focus on conversational interaction.\n\nNo generally accepted definition of conversation exists, beyond the fact that a conversation involves at least two people talking together. Consequently, the term is often defined by what it is not. A ritualized exchange such as a mutual greeting is not a conversation, and an interaction that includes a marked status differential (such as a boss giving orders) is also not a conversation. An interaction with a tightly focused topic or purpose is also generally not considered a conversation. Summarizing these properties, one authority writes that \"Conversation is the kind of speech that happens informally, symmetrically, and for the purposes of establishing and maintaining social ties.\"\n\nFrom a less technical perspective, a writer on etiquette in the early 20th century defined conversation as the polite give and take of subjects thought of by people talking with each other for company.\n\nConversations follow rules of etiquette because conversations are social interactions, and therefore depend on social convention. Specific rules for conversation arise from the cooperative principle. Failure to adhere to these rules causes the conversation to deteriorate or eventually to end. Contributions to a conversation are responses to what has previously been said.\n\nConversations may be the optimal form of communication, depending on the participants' intended ends. Conversations may be ideal when, for example, each party desires a relatively equal exchange of information, or when the parties desire to build social ties. On the other hand, if permanency or the ability to review such information is important, written communication may be ideal. Or if time-efficient communication is most important, a speech may be preferable.\n\nConversation involves a lot more nuanced and implied context that lies beneath just the words.\n\nConversation is generally face-to-face person-to-person at the same time (synchronous) – possibly online with video applications such as Skype, but might also include audio-only phone calls. It would not generally include internet written communication which tends to be asynchronous (not same time – can read and respond later if at all) and does not fit the 'con'='with' in 'conversation'. In face to face conversation it has been suggested that 85% of the communication is non-verbal/body language – a smile, a frown, a shrug, tone of voice conveying much added meaning to the mere words. Short forms of written communication such as sms are thus frequently misunderstood. Yet the convenience and apparent control makes them increasingly popular now that many people seem to prefer to communicate via short text or Facebook post and/or 'like' than actually meeting face to face.\n\nFace to face conversation is increasingly deemed less important when people have already seen all the relevant news about the other person they have already shared online. Also people would typically never say face to face some things they might easily write with the apparent impunity of anonymous online posts. To this extent the decreasing popularity of face to face conversation can be seen as a loss to society and civility.\n\nBanter is short witty sentences that bounce back and forth between individuals. Often banter uses clever put-downs and witty insults, misunderstandings (often intentional), zippy wisecracks, zingers, flirtation, and puns. The idea is each line of banter should \"top\" the one before it and in short a verbal war of wit without any physical contact.\n\nFilms that have used banter as a way of structure in conversations are:\n\nImportant factors in delivering a banter is the subtext, situation and the rapport with the person. Every line in a banter should be able to evoke both an emotional response and ownership without hurting one's feelings. Following a structure that the involved parties understand is important, even if the subject and structure is absurd, a certain level of progression should be kept in a manner that it connects with the involved parties.\n\nDifferent methods of story telling could be used in delivering banter, like making an unexpected turn in the flow of structure (interrupting a comfortable structure), taking the conversation towards an expected crude form with evoking questions, doubts, self-conscientiousness (creating intentional misunderstandings) or layering the existing pattern with multiple anchors...etc. It is important to quit the bantering with the sensibility of playground rules, both parties shouldn't obsess on topping each other, continuously after a certain point of interest. It is as Shakespeare said \"Brevity is the soul of wit.\"\n\nOne element of conversation is discussion: sharing opinions on subjects that are thought of during the conversation. In polite society the subject changes before discussion becomes dispute or controversial. For example, if theology is being \"discussed\", no one is insisting a particular view be accepted.\n\nMany conversations can be divided into four categories according to their major subject content:\n\nPractically, few conversations fall exclusively into one category. Nevertheless, the proportional distribution of any given conversation between the categories can offer useful psychological insights into the mind set of the participants. This is the reason that the majority of conversations are difficult to categorize.\n\nMost conversations may be classified by their goal. Conversational ends may, however, shift over the life of the conversation.\n\nA study completed in July 2007 by Matthias Mehl of the University of Arizona shows that contrary to popular belief, there is little difference in the number of words used by men and women in conversation. The study showed that on average each of the sexes uses about 16,000 words per day.\n\nThere are certain situations, typically encountered while traveling, which result in strangers sharing what would ordinarily be an intimate social space such as sitting together on a bus or airplane. In such situations strangers are likely to share intimate personal information they would not ordinarily share with strangers. A special case emerges when one of the travelers is a mental health professional and the other party shares details of their personal life in the apparent hope of receiving help or advice.\n\nConversational narcissism is a term used by sociologist Charles Derber in his book, \"The Pursuit of Attention: Power and Ego in Everyday Life\".\n\nDerber observed that the social support system in America is relatively weak, and this leads people to compete mightily for attention. In social situations, they tend to steer the conversation away from others and toward themselves. \"Conversational narcissism is the key manifestation of the dominant attention-getting psychology in America,\" he wrote. \"It occurs in informal conversations among friends, family and coworkers. The profusion of popular literature about listening and the etiquette of managing those who talk constantly about themselves suggests its pervasiveness in everyday life.\"\n\nWhat Derber describes as \"conversational narcissism\" often occurs subtly rather than overtly because it is prudent to avoid being judged an egotist.\n\nDerber distinguishes the \"shift-response\" from the \"support-response\". A shift response takes the focus of attention away from the last speaker and refocuses on the new speaker, as in: \"John: I'm feeling really starved. Mary: Oh, I just ate.\" Whereas a support response maintains the focus on the last speaker, as in: \"John: I'm feeling really starved. Mary: When was the last time you ate?\"\n\nThe ability to generate conversation that cannot be distinguished from a human participant has been one test of a successful artificial intelligence (The Turing Test). A human judge engages in a natural language conversation with one human and one machine, each of which tries to appear human. If the judge cannot tell the machine from the human, the machine is said to have passed the test. One limitation is that the conversation is limited to a text, not allowing tone to be shown.\n\nAlso called intrapersonal communication, the act of conversing with oneself can help solve problems or serve therapeutic purposes like avoiding silence.\n\nAs a prominent and useful figure in most human lives, conversation is often used in the media, e.g. talk shows such as William F. Buckley's Firing Line or the Dick Cavett Show.\n\nAuthors who have written extensively on conversation and attempted to analyze its nature include:\n\n\nThe benefits are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27124515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27124515", "title": "Eastman Monument", "text": "Eastman Monument\n\nThe Eastman Monument is a public artwork by an unknown artist, located at Crown Hill National Cemetery, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States of America. It is a monument with a white marble angel standing against a granite cross that is standing upon three steps. The angel is dressed in a cloth gown and stands with its hands spread out and its head turned down to the ground. The first step has \"EASTMAN\" written across it.\n\nThis monument was installed by the Eastman family in the early 20th century. Members of the Eastman family are buried in front of the monument. The family operated a medical clinic called the Eastman Clinic in the early 20th century, which is displayed on the headstones of the family members who worked in the medical field.\n\n"}
{"id": "31165062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31165062", "title": "Ecological art", "text": "Ecological art\n\nEcological art is an art genre and artistic practice that seeks to preserve, remediate and/or vitalize the life forms, resources and ecology of Earth, by applying the principles of ecosystems to living species and their habitats throughout the lithosphere, atmosphere, biosphere, and hydrosphere, including wilderness, rural, suburban and urban locations. It is a distinct genre from Environmental art in that it involves functional ecological systems-restoration, as well as socially engaged, activist, community-based interventions. Ecological art also addresses politics, culture, economics, ethics and aesthetics as they impact the conditions of ecosystems. Ecological art practitioners include artists, scientists, philosophers and activists who often collaborate on restoration, remediation and public awareness projects.\n\nArt historical precedents include environmental art, earthworks, land art, sustainable art, landscape painting, and landscape photography. While historical examples may reach back to neolithic times, according to the history published in the book, \"Ecovention: current art to transform ecologies\", a short list of key works include Herbert Bayer's \"Grass Mound\" (1955) at the Aspen Art Institute, Aspen, CO; Joseph Beuys 1962 proposed action to clean up the Elbe River in Hamburg, German; Hans Haacke's 1965 manifesto for time-based, \"natural\", dynamic indeterminate art; Nicolas Uriburu's 1968 performance \"Green Power, coloration Grand Canal - Venice\" and Agnes Denes's 1968 performance, \"Haiku Poetry Burial, Rice Planting and Tree Chaining/Exercises in Eco-Logic\", in Sullivan County, New York. 1969 was a watershed year for ecological art practices, including Haacke's \"Grass Grows\" in Ithaca, NY; Alan Sonfist's activities articulating the significance of native forests in urban areas and his action to monitor air quality in New York city. Betty Beaumont documented the clean-up of what was the worst U.S. ocean oil spill off the coast of Santa Barbara, California, while Mierle Laderman Ukeles wrote \"Manifesto for Maintenance Art\" (Spaid) In 1969, the John Gibson Gallery in New York city mounted the exhibition, Ecologic Art, that included the work of Will Insley, Claes Oldenburg, Christo, Peter Hutchinson, Dennis Oppenheim, Robert Morris, Bob Smithson, Carl Andre, Christo, Jan Dibbets, and Richard Long. In 1969–1970, Helen Mayer Harrison and Newton Harrison collaborated on mapping endangered species around the world. In 1971, artist Bonnie Sherk performs \"Public Lunch with the Animals\" in the Lion House of the San Francisco Zoo. From 1972 to 1979, Helen and Newton Harrison realize seven projects designed for and about lagoons in California.\n\nThe 1972 essay, \"Art and Ecological Consciousness\" by Gyorgy Kepes in his book, \"Arts of the Environment\". presents the genre as distinct from environmental art. In the 1992 exhibition and book, \"Fragile Ecologies: Contemporary Artists' Interpretations and Solutions,\" art historian, Dr. Barbara Matilsky differentiates ecological art from environmental art in that the former has ethical underpinnings. In 1993, a workshop and exhibition, specifically about ecological systems and art, was presented by Don Krug, Renee Miller and Barbara Westfall at the Society for Ecological Restoration in Irvine, California. The term \"ecovention\", was coined in 1999 as a conjunction of the words ecology and intervention, in conjunction with an exhibition of the same name curated by Amy Lipton and Sue Spaid, representing artist's projects that use inventive strategies to physically transform a local ecology. In a 2006 UNESCO research report for the Art in Ecology think tank on arts and sustainability, \"Mapping the Terrain of Contemporary EcoArt Practice and Collaboration,\" the artist Beth Carruthers uses the term Ecoart. A current definition of ecological art drafted collectively by the EcoArt Network of international artists, founded in 1998, is: \"Ecological Art is an art practice that embraces an ethic of social justice in both its content and form/materials. EcoArt is created to inspire caring and respect, stimulate dialogue, and encourage the long-term flourishing of the social and natural environments in which we live. It commonly manifests as socially engaged, activist, community-based restorative or interventionist art.\"\n\nThe 2012 book, \"Toward Global (Environ)Mental Change - Transformative Art and Cultures of Sustainability\", proposes that the global crisis of unsustainability is a disruption of the \"hardware\" of civilization, as well as a crisis of the \"software\" of the human mind. The 2004 book, \"Ecological aesthetics: art in environmental design: theory and practice\", presents an analysis of a variety of tendencies and approaches to landscape architecture, science and theory that inform research and the transformation of the landscape for over thirty years. Green Arts Web, compiled by Carnegie Mellon University senior librarian, Mo Dawley, is a compendium of core readings on contemporary environmental art, ecological art and theory (20th century to the present) that includes, among other sub-categories, for example, deep ecology practices; ecofeminism; ecopsychology; land ethic and bioregionalism; sense of place; and systems thinking.\n\nArtists considered to be working within this field subscribe to one or more of the following principles:\n\n\nEcological art involves numerous diverse approaches, including:\n\n\nContemporary ecological art has been articulated across interdisciplinary and scholarly groups in terms of life-centered issues, community participation, public dialogue, and ecological sustainability. In 1996, the educator and activist, Don Krug identified concepts frequently addressed by ecological artists that can be used by to interpret ecological perspectives and practices. The following four orientations were identified: Environmental Design, Ecological Design, Social Restoration, and Ecological Restoration.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9646650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9646650", "title": "Ethiopian philosophy", "text": "Ethiopian philosophy\n\nEthiopian philosophy is the philosophical corpus of the territories of present-day Ethiopia and Eritrea. Besides via oral tradition, it was preserved early in written form through Ge'ez manuscripts. This philosophy occupies a unique position within African philosophy.\n\nThe character of Ethiopian philosophy is determined by the particular conditions of evolution of the Ethiopian culture. Thus, Ethiopian philosophy arises from the confluence of Greek and Patristic philosophy with traditional Ethiopian modes of thought. Because of the early isolation from its sources of Abrahamic spirituality – Byzantium and Alexandria – Ethiopia received some of its philosophical heritage through Arabic versions.\n\nThe sapiential literature developed under these circumstances is the result of a twofold effort of creative assimilation: on one side, of a tuning of Orthodoxy to traditional modes of thought (never eradicated), and vice versa, and, on the other side, of absorption of Greek pagan and early Patristic thought into this developing Ethiopian-Christian synthesis. As a consequence, the moral reflection of religious inspiration is prevalent, and the use of narrative, parable, apothegm and rich imagery is preferred to the use of abstract argument. This sapiential literature consists in translations and adaptations of some Greek texts, namely of the \"Physiolog\" (cca. 5th century A.D.), \"The Life and Maxims of Skendes\" (11th century A.D.) and \"The Book of the Wise Philosophers\" (1510/22).\n\nIn the 17th century, the religious beliefs of Ethiopians were challenged by King Suseynos' adoption of Catholicism, and by a subsequent presence of Jesuit missionaries. The attempt to forcefully impose Catholicism upon his constituents during Suseynos' reign inspired further development of Ethiopian philosophy during the 17th century. Zera Yacob (1599–1692) is the most important exponent of this renaissance. His treatise \"Hatata\" (1667) is a work often included in the narrow canon of universal philosophy.\n\nZera Yacob had a culture entirely theological. Although of humble birth, he earned respect for his intellectual capacities, and went on to pursue the traditional Ethiopian theological education. Zera Yacob mastered Coptic theology and Catholic theology, and he had extensive knowledge of Jewish and Islamic religions. His spiritual \"vade mecum\" was David’s \"Book of Psalms\", in which he sought comfort and inspiration.\n\nKnowing thus two Christian interpretations of the Bible, as well as the two other Abrahamic religions, and seeing the contradictions between them, Zera Yacob is led to refuse the authority of the Ethiopian tradition and of any tradition in general. He comes to think that the tradition is infested by lies, because men, in their arrogance, believe that they know everything and thus refuse to examine things with their own mind, blindly accepting what has been transmitted to them by their forefathers. The philosopher accepts then as unique authority his reason, and accepts from the Scriptures and from the dogmas only what resists a rational inquiry. He affirms that the human reason can find the truth, if it searches it and does not get discouraged in front of the difficulties.\n\nThus, by his piece-meal examination (this is what \"hatätä\" means), Zera Yacob arrives at an argument for the existence of God (an essence uncreated and eternal), based on the impossibility of an infinite chain of causes, and at the conviction that the Creation is good, because God is good. This belief is the basis for a criticism of ascetic morals and of some Jewish and Islamic moral precepts as well. By identifying the will of God with what is rational Zera Yacob rejects most of these moral precepts (e.g. concerning polygamy, or fasting, or sexual or alimentary interdictions) as blasphemy. He seems to think that all is good for the good one, reminding thus of the mode of thought expressed in the profession of faith of the other great Zera Yaqob, the Emperor from the 15th century.\n\nZera Yacob had a disciple, Walda Heywat, who also wrote a philosophical treatise, systematising his master’s thought. He accorded more attention to the practical and educational problems, and he tried to connect Zera Yacob’s philosophy with the kind of wisdom expressed in the earlier sapiential literature. Walda Heywat recurs intensively to illustrations and parables, and many times the source of his examples is the \"Book of the Wise Philosophers\". Although his work is arguably less original than that of his master's, it can be considered \"more Ethiopian\", since it represents a synthesis through which some ideas engendered by Zera Yacob's rejection of tradition are brought together with traditional Christian-inspired wisdom. It is \"more Ethiopian\" also in the sense that it addresses some practical, social and moral issues that most Ethiopians of his time encountered in their lives. Thus, Walda Heywat's work is less speculative, but more national in character than the treatise of his master, Zera Yacob.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15551070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15551070", "title": "Evolutionary ideas of the Renaissance and Enlightenment", "text": "Evolutionary ideas of the Renaissance and Enlightenment\n\nEvolutionary ideas during the periods of the Renaissance and the Enlightenment developed over a time when natural history became more sophisticated during the 17th and 18th centuries, and as the scientific revolution and the rise of mechanical philosophy encouraged viewing the natural world as a machine with workings capable of analysis. But the evolutionary ideas of the early 18th century were of a religious and spiritural nature. In the second half of the 18th century more materialistic and explicit ideas about biological evolution began to emerge, adding further strands in the history of evolutionary thought.\n\nThe word \"evolution\" (from the Latin \"evolutio\", meaning \"to unroll like a scroll\") appeared in English in the 17th century, referring to an orderly sequence of events, particularly one in which the outcome was somehow contained within it from the start. Notably, in 1677 Sir Matthew Hale, attacking the atheistic atomism of Democritus and Epicurus, used the term \"evolution\" to describe his opponent's ideas that vibrations and collisions of atoms in the void — without divine intervention — had formed \"Primordial Seeds\" (semina) which were the \"immediate, primitive, productive Principles of Men, Animals, Birds and Fishes.\" For Hale, this mechanism was \"absurd\", because \"it must have potentially at least the whole Systeme of Humane Nature, or at least that Ideal Principle or Configuration thereof, in the evolution whereof the complement and formation of the Humane Nature must consist ... and all this drawn from a fortuitous coalition of senseless and dead Atoms.\"\n\nWhile Hale (ironically) first used the term evolution in arguing \"against\" the exact mechanistic view the word would come to symbolize, he also demonstrates that at least some evolutionist theories explored between 1650 and 1800 postulated that the universe, including life on earth, had developed mechanically, entirely without divine guidance. Around this time, the mechanical philosophy of Descartes, reinforced by the physics of Galileo and Newton, began to encourage the machine-like view of the universe which would come to characterise the scientific revolution. However, most contemporary theories of evolution, including those developed by the German idealist philosophers Schelling and Hegel (and mocked by Schopenhauer), held that evolution was a fundamentally \"spiritual\" process, with the entire course of natural and human evolution being \"a self-disclosing revelation of the Absolute\".\n\nTypical of these theorists, Gottfried Leibniz postulated in 1714 that \"monads\" inside objects caused motion by internal forces, and maintained that \"the 'germs' of all things have always existed ... [and] contain within themselves an internal principle of development which drives them on through a vast series of metamorphoses\" to become the geological formations, lifeforms, psychologies, and civilizations of the present. Leibniz clearly felt that evolution proceeded on divine principles — in his \"De rerum originatione radicali\" (1697), he wrote: \"A cumulative increase of the beauty and universal perfection of the works of God, a perpetual and unrestricted progress of the universe as a whole must be recognized, such that it advances to a higher state of cultivation.\" Others, such as J. G. von Herder, expressed similar ideas.\n\nBetween 1603 and 1613 Sir Walter Raleigh was a prisoner in the Tower of London awaiting execution; in this period he wrote a history of the world in five volumes where he described his American experiences and adventures, in it he wondered whether all the new species discovered in the new continent could have found their place on Noah's Ark. A very serious question at the time, he postulates that only animals from the old continent found place on the Ark; eventually, after the Flood, some of these animals would migrate to the new continent and, under environmental pressure, change their appearances to create new species. Fifty years later, Matthew Hale went even further, and said that only the prototypes of all animal species were welcomed on the Ark; these would eventually differentiate after their release. Many clergymen were happy with Raleigh and Hale ideas since they appeared to solve the problem of the Ark's tonnage.\n\nIn his \"Venus Physique\" in 1745, and \"System of Nature\" in 1751, Pierre Louis Maupertuis veered toward more materialist ground. He wrote of natural modifications occurring during reproduction and accumulating over the course of many generations, producing races and even new species. He also anticipated in general terms the idea of natural selection.\n\nVague and general ideas of evolution continued to proliferate among the mid-eighteenth century Enlightenment philosophers. G. L. L. Buffon suggested that what most people referred to as species were really just well-marked varieties. He thought that the members of what was then called a genus (which in terms of modern scientific classification would be considered a family) are all descended from a single, common ancestor. The ancestor of each family had arisen through spontaneous generation; environmental effects then caused them to diverge into different species. He speculated that the 200 or so species of mammals then known might have descended from as few as 38 original forms. Buffon's concept of evolution was strictly limited. He believed there were \"internal molds\" that shaped the spontaneous generation of each family and that the families themselves were entirely and eternally distinct. Thus, lions, tigers, leopards, pumas and house cats could all share a common ancestor, but dogs and house cats could not. Although Darwin's foreword to his 6th edition of \"Origin\" credited Aristotle with foreshadowing the concept of natural selection, he also wrote that \"the first author who in modern times has treated it in a scientific spirit was Buffon\".\n\nSome 18th-century writers speculated about human evolution. John Mitchell, a physician and cartographer, wrote a book in 1744 called \"An Essay upon the Causes of the Different Colours of People in Different Climates\" in which he claimed that the first race on earth had been a brown and reddish colour he said \"that an intermediate tawny colour found amongst Asiatics and Native Amerindians\" had been the “original complexion of mankind” and that others races came about by the original race spending generations in different climates. Between 1767 and 1792 James Burnett, Lord Monboddo included in his writings not only the concept that man had descended from other primates, but also that, in response to their environment, creatures had found methods of transforming their characteristics over long time intervals. He also produced research on the evolution of linguistics, which was cited by Erasmus Darwin in his poem \"Temple of Nature\". Jan-Andrew Henderson states that Monboddo was the first to articulate the theory of natural selection.\n\nIn 1792, the philosopher Immanuel Kant presented, in his \"Critique of Judgement\", what he referred to as “a daring venture of reason”, in which “one organic being [is] derived from another organic being, although from one which is specifically different; e.g., certain water-animals transform themselves gradually into marsh-animals and from these, after some generations, into land-animals.” Some 20th-century philosophers, such as Eric Voegelin, credit Kant with foreshadowing modern evolutionary theory.\nIn 1796, Erasmus Darwin published his \"Zoönomia\", which suggested \"that all warm-blooded animals have arisen from one living filament ... with the power of acquiring new parts\" in response to stimuli, with each round of improvements being inherited by successive generations. In his 1802 poem \"Temple of Nature\", he described the rise of life from minute organisms living in the mud to its modern diversity:\n\nFirst forms minute, unseen by spheric glass,<br>\nMove on the mud, or pierce the watery mass;<br>\nThese, as successive generations bloom,<br>\nNew powers acquire and larger limbs assume;<br>\nWhence countless groups of vegetation spring,<br>\nAnd breathing realms of fin and feet and wing.\n\n"}
{"id": "459198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=459198", "title": "Flag of Malawi", "text": "Flag of Malawi\n\nThe flag of Malawi was officially adopted on 6 July 1964 when the colony of Nyasaland became independent from British rule and renamed itself Malawi.\n\nThe first flag of independent Malawi was adopted on 6 July 1964. The rising sun represents the dawn of hope and freedom for the continent of Africa (when the flag was created, more countries in Africa were gaining independence from European rule). The 31 rays of the sun represent the fact that Malawi was the 31st African nation at the time of its independence. The black represents the indigenous people of the continent, the red symbolizes the blood of their struggle, and the green represents nature. The flag resembles the Pan-African flag designed by Marcus Garvey's Universal Negro Improvement Association, with the red and black bands reversed and a red sun in the top. It also resembles the flag of the now-defunct Republic of Biafra.\n\nA new flag of Malawi was adopted on 2010, as proposed by the Democratic Progressive Party-led government. The stripes were altered from the previous flag to match the original Pan-African Flag layout, with the red stripe at the top, the black stripe in middle, and the green stripe at the bottom. The rising sun at the flag's top was replaced with a full, centred white sun with 45 rays representing the economic progress Malawi has made since becoming independent. The opposition United Democratic Front announced that it would challenge the legitimacy of flag change in court. The flag was endorsed by the President of Malawi, Bingu wa Mutharika, who approved the flag change on 29 July 2010. There was much public outcry about whether there was a need to change the flag, but the process continued despite being unwelcome to much of the public. The flag was pejoratively nicknamed \"Bingu's flag\" by the majority of the nation who saw it as an illegitimate flag. Many objected to the new flag, perceiving its adoption as undemocratic.\n\nOn 28 May 2012, under new president Joyce Banda, Parliament voted to revert to the independence flag.\n\nThe colours of the flag are defined using British Standard colours:\n"}
{"id": "24225596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24225596", "title": "Flower seller", "text": "Flower seller\n\nA flower seller, normally a woman, traditionally sells flowers on the street. Often the flowers are carried, in a basket for example. The subject matter has been a favorite of artists. The profession has mostly died out in countries like the United Kingdom, but still exists in others such as India.\n\nThe 1920s series of British \"Squibs\" films were constructed around the adventures of a London flower girl played by Betty Balfour.\n"}
{"id": "1930917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1930917", "title": "Free clinic", "text": "Free clinic\n\nA free clinic is a health care facility in the United States offering services to economically disadvantaged individuals for free or at a nominal cost. The need for such a clinic arises in societies where there is no universal healthcare, and therefore a social safety net has arisen in its place. Core staff members may hold full-time paid positions, however, most of the staff a patient will encounter are volunteers drawn from the local medical community. Care is provided free of cost to persons who have limited incomes, no health insurance and do not qualify for Medicaid or Medicare. To offset costs, some clinics charge a nominal fee to those whose income is deemed sufficient to pay a fee. Many free clinics offer services to underinsured individuals; meaning those who have only limited medical coverage (such as catastrophic care coverage, but not regular coverage), or who have insurance, but their policies include high medical deductibles that they are unable to afford. Clinics often use the term \"underinsured\" to describe the working poor.\n\nMost free clinics provide treatment for routine illness or injuries; and long-term chronic conditions such as high blood pressure, diabetes, asthma and high cholesterol. Many also provide a limited range of medical testing, prescription drug assistance, women's health care, and dental care. Free clinics do not function as emergency care providers, and most do not handle employment related injuries. Few if any free clinics offer care for chronic pain as that would require them to dispense narcotics. For a free clinic such care is almost always cost-prohibitive. Handling narcotics requires a high level of physical security for the staff and building along with more paperwork and government regulation compared to what other prescription medications require.\n\nThe modern concept of a free clinic originated in San Francisco when Dr. David Smith founded the Haight Ashbury Free Clinic in 1967. From there free clinics spread to other California cities and then across the United States. Each one offered a unique set of services, reflecting the particular needs and resources of the local community. Some were established to provide medical services in the inner cities while others opened in the suburbs and many student-run free clinics have emerged that serve the underserved as well as provide a medical training site for students in the health professions. What they share in common is that care is made possible through the service of volunteers, the donation of goods and community support. There is little – if any – government funding for most free clinics, so a free clinic's chances of success is largely determined by the support it receives from its own community.\n\nIn 2001 the National Association of Free and Charitable Clinics (NAFC) was founded in Washington, D.C. to advocate for the issues and concerns of free and charitable clinics. Free clinics are defined by the NAFC as \"safety-net health care organizations that utilize a volunteer/staff model to provide a range of medical, dental, pharmacy, vision and/or behavioral health services to economically disadvantaged individuals. Such clinics are 501(c)3 tax-exempt organizations, or operate as a program component or affiliate of a 501(c)(3) organization.\" In time various state and regional organizations where formed including the Free Clinics of the Great Lakes Region, Lone Star Association of Charitable Clinic (Texas), North Carolina Association of Free Clinics, Ohio Association of Free Clinics and the Virginia Association of Free Clinics. In 2005 Empowering Community Healthcare Outreach (ECHO) was established to assist churches and other community organizations start and run free and charitable clinics.\n\nOf the 41 million uninsured people in the United States, the 355 officially registered free clinics in the country are only able to provide services to about 650,000 of them. On average, free clinics have annual budgets of $458,028 and have 5,989 annual patient visits. In another survey of three free clinics, 82% of patients reported that they began using a free clinics because they have are uninsured, and 59% were referred by friends/family.\nIn a 1992-1997 survey of the Charlottesville Free Clinic, the patient body consists largely of a low income working class that reflects the demographics of the Charlottesville area. Most of the patients reported that without the free clinic, they would either seek the emergency room or do nothing at all if they got sick. There has been a shift over the years from patients seeking urgent care to patients seeking treatment for chronic illnesses. Combined, these factors suggest that free clinics will require additional resources to order to meet the rising demands of their patient population.\n\nSome free clinics specialize in providing primary care (acute care), while others focus on long-term chronic health issues, and many do both. Most free clinics start out seeing patients only one or two days per week, and then expand as they find additional volunteers. Because they rely on volunteers, most are only open a few hours per day; primarily in the late afternoon and early evening. Some free clinics are faith-based, meaning they are sponsored by and affiliated with a specific church or religious denomination, or they are interfaith and draw support from several different denominations or religions.\n\nFree clinics rely on donations for financial support. The amount of money they take in through donations to a large degree determines how many patients they are able to see. Because they are unlikely to have the resources to see everyone who might need their help, they usually limit who they are willing to see to just those from their own community and the surrounding areas, and especially in chronic care will only see patients from within a limited set of medical conditions.\n\nFree clinics function as health care safety nets for patients who cannot afford or access other forms of healthcare. They provide essential services regardless of the patient's ability to pay. Hospital emergency rooms are required by federal law to treat everyone regardless of their ability to pay, so people who lack the means to pay for care often seek treatment in emergency rooms for minor ailments. These hospitals function as safety net hospitals. Treating people in the ER is expensive, though, and it ties up resources designed for emergencies. When a community has a free clinic, hospitals can steer patients to the clinic who otherwise would have been seen in the ER, patients who have a simple ear ache, pink eye, strep throat, flu, etc. For this reason most hospitals are supportive of free clinics. Hospitals are a primary source for equipment and supplies for free clinics. When they upgrade equipment, they will often donate the older equipment to the local free clinic. In addition some hospitals supply most or all of a local clinics day-to-day medical supplies, and some do lab work free of cost as well.\n\nFree clinics can be granted medical malpractice coverage through the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA). FTCA coverage includes health care professionals who are acting as volunteers. In addition it covers officers, board members, clinic employees, and individual contractors. Medical malpractice coverage does not occur automatically, each organization must be \"deemed\" eligible by the US Department of Health and Human Services. To be eligible the clinic must be an IRS recognized nonprofit, that does not accept payments from insurance companies, the government, or other organizations for the services it performs. It also must not charge patients for services. It may receive donations from anyone and any organization; the stipulation is that it may not receive financial reimbursement for service rendered, which by definition a free clinic does not.\nThe Volunteer Protection Act of 1997 provides immunity from tort claims such as negligence, bodily injury, pain and suffering that might be filed against the volunteers of nonprofit organizations. Thus, volunteers working on behalf of a nonprofit free clinic are covered under the Volunteer Protection Act from most liability claims.\n\nIndividual states may offer additional legal protections to free clinics, usually under the states Good Samaritan laws. Free clinics must still carry general liability insurance, to cover non-medical liability, such as slips and falls in the parking lot.\n\nSome pharmaceutical companies offer assistance programs for the drugs they manufacture. These programs allow those who are unable to pay for their medications to receive prescription drugs for free or at a greatly reduced cost. Many free clinics work to qualify patients on behalf of these programs. In some cases the clinic receive and then distribute the medications themselves, in others they verify that the patient is eligible for the program, and the medication is then shipped to the patient, or patient receives the medication from a local pharmacy.\nSome free clinics sole mission is to help those who do not have prescription drug coverage, and cannot afford for their medications, to enroll in prescription assistance programs. Such clinics are known as \"clinics without walls\" because they dispense with the need to have their own building, exam rooms, or clinical equipment.\n\nSome free clinics are able to assist with dental problems. This is handled either at the clinic itself, if the clinic has its own dental facilities and a dentist; or it is facilitated through a partnership with one or more local dentist who are willing to take referred patients for free. For example, a clinic might have ten local dentists who will each accept two patients per month, so this allows the clinic to treat a total of twenty dental patients each month.\nSome clinics use a referral system to handle other forms of specialized medical care.\n\nStudent-run clinics (SRC) are an increasingly prevalent part of U.S. medical school curricula, and they are designed to improve health-care delivery to underserved populations. The vast majority of these clinics are free-of-charge and they have been shown to result in high patient satisfaction The preventive medicine interventions offered at this clinics have been proved to have significantly high health and economic impacts. Furthermore, students who are exposed to SRCs are more likely than their peers to continue to work with underserved populations after graduation.\n\nThe Society of Student-Run Free Clinics (SSRFC) hosts a national inter-professional platform for student-run clinics. This allows the sharing of ideas, collaborate on research, information about funding resources and encourages the expansion of existing clinics as well as the cultivate of the new ones. The SSRFC faculty network works to facilitate collaboration between student-run free clinics.\n\nThere are several proposed advantages to free clinics. They tend to be located in communities where there is a great need for health care. Free clinics are more flexible in structure than established medical institutions. They are also much less expensive - hence the title \"free clinic.\" Due to their small size, their organization tends to be more egalitarian and less hierarchical, which allows for more direct exchange of information across the clinic. Unlike regular regular practices, they also attempt to do more than just provide healthcare. Some were created as political acts meant to advocate for socialized medicine and society.\n\nHowever, they do come with their own set of problems. For instance, they are a solution aimed towards serving tens of millions of uninsured Americans, but they function solely on the spirit of altruism. Volunteers must be willing to be available during strange hours of the day and provide professional-level care all without the possibility of financial reimbursement. Additionally, the ability of free clinics to provide long term, sustainable service and maintain continuity of care for patients is questionable, considering the instability of funding and providers. One proposition towards overcoming these challenges involves the creation of a national foundation that officially assists and connects free clinics, allowing them to evolve as necessary.\n\nFree clinics are usually located near the people they are trying to serve. In most cases they are located near other nonprofits that serve the same target community such as food-banks, Head Start, Goodwill Industries, the Salvation Army and public housing. Because free clinics often refer people to other medical facilities for lab work, dentistry, and other services, they may also be found in the same area of town as those medical facilities. Some clinics have working agreements with the other facilities that are willing to assist with the clinics mission. Being close to the other medical facilities makes it easier for patients to get from one to the other. Being close to other medical facilities also makes it easier to find medically trained volunteers.\nMost free clinics start out using donated space; others start by renting or leasing space. In time and with enough community support, many go on to acquire their own buildings. Donated space may be an entire building, or it might be a couple of rooms within a church, hospital, or another business. Because the clinic will house confidential medical records, prescription medications, and must remain as clean as possible, donated space is usually set aside for the sole use of the clinic even when the clinic is closed.\n\nThe National Association of Free & Charitable Clinics maintains a database of 1,200 free and charitable clinics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33526402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33526402", "title": "German Orthographic Conference of 1901", "text": "German Orthographic Conference of 1901\n\nThe German Orthographic Conference of 1901 (the Berlin II Orthographic Conference; or \"\") took place in Berlin from 17th till 19 June 1901. The results of the conference became official in the German Empire in 1902. \nThe standardized German spelling that resulted from the conference was largely based on the Prussian school spelling, but also on the Orthographic Conference of 1876.\n\nThe conference results removed numerous existing variant forms.\nSoon after the conference, its results were criticized by people who believed there should be further changes.\n\nThe spelling was used in Germany, Austria and Switzerland, apart from the replacement of \"ß\" with \"ss\" in Switzerland in later years.\nThe \"Erziehungsrat des Kantons Zürich\" stopped the teaching of \"ß\" in schools in 1935 with the Kanton Zürich being the first to do so, and the \"Neue Zürcher Zeitung\" as last Swiss newspaper stopped using \"ß\" in 1974. However, some Swiss book publishers still use \"ß\".\n\nIt was not until 95 years later that the German spelling was changed with a reform in 1996.\n"}
{"id": "5346954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5346954", "title": "Gochang, Hwasun and Ganghwa Dolmen Sites", "text": "Gochang, Hwasun and Ganghwa Dolmen Sites\n\nThe Gochang, Hwasun and Ganghwa Dolmen Sites are the location of hundreds of stone dolmen which were used as grave markers and for ritual purposes during the first millennium BCE when the Megalithic Culture was prominent on the Korean Peninsula. The sites were designated as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 2000. Korea is said to contain more than 40% of the world's dolmen, which are mostly concentrated in these three sites.\n\nThe megalithic stones are invaluable because they mark the graves of the ruling elite. Pottery, comma-shaped jewels, bronzes, stone tools, and other funerary artifacts have been excavated from these dolmen. The culture of the people during this time can be gleaned from the evidence left by the dolmen. Additionally, it can be induced from the stones how the stone was quarried, transported, and used to build the dolmen. \n\nDolmen in Korea have been dated to the seventh century BCE in locations such as Gochang and the practice ended around the third century BCE. The dolmen culture is linked with the Neolithic and bronze cultures of Korea. \n\nExcavation at the sites did not begin until 1965. Since, then multiple digs have been sponsored and an extensive program of inventory and preservation has been initiated by the Korean government.\n\nThere are three main theories about the origin of the ancient Korean Dolmen. First, the theory that it was spread through the sea in Southeast Asia, secondly, the theory that it was derived from a stone tomb in the north, and third, the theory that it originated in Korea.\n\nIt is a theory that the Dolmen spread through Southeast Asia along with the rice culture. Dolmen are distributed along the west coast of Korea and In that the distribution of the Dolmen is consistent with the southern part of the culture, the Dolmen was spread from Southeast Asia along with agriculture.\n\nThis theory is derived from the theory that the Dolmen developed from the stone tomb of the Manchuria because it is closely related to the Bronze age culture in the north. If a stone mound is exposed to the ground due to the large size, the stone will be a stone-shaped table. Although it is very persuasive in terms of shape, it is not distributed in northern Asia such as Manchuria and Siberia. \n\nIn the background of this theory, the dolmen are the most distributed in Korea. They are also diverse in shape and are timed ahead of those of other countries. It is highly likely that the culture of the South and the North will have developed a unique Dolmen culture in Korea. The peninsula originated from its geographical location, where it provided easy access to the culture of the north and south.\n\nDolmen are generally classified in two types in East Asia. The table/northern-type and the go-board/southern-type. In the former, four stones were positioned to make the walls of a box and were capped by a stone which lay on top of the supports. The latter is characterized by underground burial with stones that supported the capstone.\n\nThis group of dolmen are the largest and most varied. They are known as the Jungnim-ri dolmens and are centered in Maesan village, Gochang County, North Jeolla province.\n\nThe dolmens were built from east to west at the foot of a series of hills at an altitude of 15 to 50 meters/49 feet to 164 feet. Generally, the capstones of the dolmens are around 1 to 5.8 meters/3.2 to 19 feet in length and may weigh up to 225 tons. 442 dolmen have been documented and classified based on the size of the capstone.\n\nThis group is believed to have been constructed around the seventh century BCE.\n\nThe Gochang Dolmen Site is listed as Historic Site #391.\n\nFound in Hwasun County, South Jeolla, , these dolmens are also located on the slopes of hills and follow the Jiseokgang river. The Hyosan-ri group contains 158 dolmens and the Dasin-ri group, 129. These dolmens are less well preserved than the Jungnim-ri group. The quarry where some of the stones of this group were carved out has been located. This group is dated to around the sixth or fifth century BCE.\n\nThese dolmens are located on Ganghwa Island, Ganghwa County, Incheon. They are located on the slopes of mountains and are thus higher in elevation than their counterparts. These dolmens are believed to be earliest ones made because the dolmen groups in Bugeun-ri (, in Hajeom-myeon) and Gocheon-ri (, in Naega-myeon) resemble the early dolmens. However, this has not been conclusively proved.\n\nA notable dolmen at Ganghwa is a northern/table-type dolmen where it was believed ancestral rites were performed. It is the biggest stone in South Korea with measures of 2.6 × 7.1 × 5.5 meters, but it has only two supporting stones. Combined the supporting stones and the capstone weigh between 150 and 225 tons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22545239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22545239", "title": "Hector Memorial Medal", "text": "Hector Memorial Medal\n\nThe Hector Medal (formerly known as the Hector Memorial Medal) is a science award given by the Royal Society of New Zealand in memory of Sir James Hector to researchers working in New Zealand. It is awarded annually in rotation for different sciences – currently there are three: chemical sciences; physical sciences; mathematical and information sciences. It is given to a researcher who \"has undertaken work of great scientific or technological merit and has made an outstanding contribution to the advancement of the particular branch of science.\" It was previously rotated through more fields of science – in 1918 they were: botany, chemistry, ethnology, geology, physics (including mathematics and astronomy), zoology (including animal physiology). For a few years it was awarded biennially – it was not awarded in 2000, 2002 or 2004.\n\nIn 1991 it was overtaken by the Rutherford Medal as the highest award given by the Royal Society of New Zealand.\n\nThe obverse of the medal bears the head of James Hector and the reverse a Māori snaring a huia. The last confirmed sighting of a living huia predates the award of the medal by three years.\n\n"}
{"id": "5014486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5014486", "title": "Hong Kong Tourism Board", "text": "Hong Kong Tourism Board\n\nThe Hong Kong Tourism Board (HKTB) (Traditional Chinese: 香港旅遊發展局) is a Government-subvented body founded in 2001. The Board replaced the Hong Kong Tourist Association (HKTA) (Traditional Chinese: 香港旅遊協會) established in 1957. It has 15 branch offices and representative offices in 6 markets around the world, and its primary mission is to maximise the social and economic contribution that tourism makes to the community of Hong Kong, and consolidate the city's position as a desired destination. In fulfilling this, it works with the Government, travel industry and other partners to market and promote Hong Kong worldwide, improve the range and quality of visitor facilities and tourism service standards, and enhance the experiences of visitors once they have arrived.\n\n\nThe HKTB Board is appointed by the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong SAR Government and is made up of 20 members from various industries. The Commissioner for Tourism, who is an government official, holds the capacity as Deputy Chairman of the HKTB.\n\nLaunched in November 1999, the Quality Tourism Services (QTS) Scheme (Traditional Chinese: 優質旅遊服務) is an accreditation programme aimed at promoting service excellence among local businesses and assisting customers to identify quality service providers. To qualify, merchant must fulfill stringent criteria and undergo annual assessment. All accredited merchants must display the gold and black QTS sign on their shop windows for recognition. \n\nInitially, shops and restaurants were the only 2 categories covered by the QTS scheme. The scheme was extended to visitor accommodations and hair salons in November 2006 and March 2010 respectively.\n\nAs at March 2010, over 7,200 merchant outlets have been accredited under the QTS scheme. The QTS scheme is one of the most successful consumer protection programmes in Hong Kong. The Intellectual Property Department reported in 2008 that 4,700 outlets had joined its \"No Fakes Pledge\" – another well-known consumer protection programme in the territory. \n\nAfter the launch of the QTS scheme, the use of membership badges bearing the iconic red junk logos of the former HKTA was discontinued in 2000. The HKTA membership badge was first introduced in 1965.\n\nStarring famous Hong Kong actor/singer/producer Andy Lau, the 2003 commercial was inspired by Lau's 2002 blockbuster movie Infernal Affairs – a movie about an undercover cop and a bad cop working for the triads. The core message of the commercial is shops selling genuine goods and providing high standard service should set themselves apart from dishonest merchants by getting the QTS accreditation. The commercial has been aired from time to time till these days.\n\nThe QTS commercial is often confused with another public service announcement (PSA) promoting quality services which was also fronted by Andy Lau. The PSA was filmed in 2002 by the Information Services Department. There were 5 different versions all featuring rude vs. courteous shop assistants and drivers. Titled \"Success Starts with Quality Service\" (優質服務 致勝之道), the PSA was a huge success as one of Lau's lines, \"Service like this just isn't good enough in today's standard\"(今時今日咁嘅服務態度未夠架) has become a popular Hong Konger slang used to describe a poor service or a bad tempered person.\n\nSimply by presenting his/her travel document and a copy of QTS promotional leaflet at a participating QTS merchant, visitor could enjoy special privileges ranging from exclusive discount to small gift (e.g. a free silk tee for purchasing a suit at a custom tailor). In addition to displaying the QTS gold and black sign, participating QTS merchants would also display the red VIP Offers sign as recognition. The VIP Offers programme was discontinued on 31 Dec 2008.\n\nInvestigations were launched against one of the 3D-GOLD outlets after 40 customers complained they had been harassed by staff and prevented from leaving the shop. The entire 3D-GOLD chain store was stripped of its QTS status with effect from 1 Dec 2004. This was the first termination in the scheme's history.\n\nThe original 3D-GOLD Jewellery Holdings got into more controversies with the sudden death of its chairman, delisting from the stock exchange and it was on the verge of liquidation by the end of 2008. In July 2009, the jeweller was officially taken over by Hong Kong Resources Holdings (). \n\nThe QTS status of the new 3D-GOLD chain was later reinstated after it had passed the assessment.\n\nThe Audit Commission carried out a comprehensive audit on the HKTB in 2006 – 07. In the report released in October 2007, an entire section was devoted to the QTS scheme. The commission made 3 recommendations suggesting HKTB should take action to improve the scheme and reduce the number of complaints, explore ways to achieve self-financing and encourage more operators to apply for the QTS Visitor Accommodation Scheme. In response, HKTB committed to create more places in the quality training workshops for merchants and co-operate with the Home Affairs Department to proactively promote QTS Visitor Accommodation Scheme.\n\nThe QTS status of 3 merchants specialised in bird's nest – a Chinese delicacy – were terminated on 27 July 2007. The 3 merchants had publicly admitted infringement of another merchant's trademark.\n\nIn a bid to save HK$2 million annually (US$256,000) in operating costs, HKTB announced on 5 Nov 2010 that the assessment work of QTS merchants has been outsourced to the Productivity Council, while the work to engage merchants to offer discounts for visitors has been outsourced to AQ Communications. The saving will fund extra marketing work for the QTS scheme. As a result, the jobs of 17 permanent and contract staff of the Partnership & Quality Tourism Services Department had been made redundant with immediate effect. Only 5 staff would be retained to monitor the outsourced work.\n\nLocal media reported that the staff affected were first notified at 3pm on the same day of the announcement and were asked to leave by day's end. They were given compensation in accordance with the local labour laws but were denied internal transfer to other vacant positions within the organisation. A staff had expressed anger at being kept in the dark about the tendering of the outsourced work in a newspaper interview. \n\nHKTB Deputy Executive Director Daisy Lam later reiterated to the media at an event launch function that the outsourcing was a result of an organizational review conducted a year ago in 2009. \n\nIn an interview to local newspapers, Legislator Lee Cheuk-yan questioned about the quality of work after the outsourcing. Lee also concerned that the affected staff will be unable to secure another job as the end of the year nears. Another lawmaker Wong Kwok-hing critisied HKTB for setting a bad example and he feared the private sector may follow suit. \n\nDaisy Lam responded to critics that in addition to compensation, those affected may consider a transfer to the two outsourced bodies. Lam was not worried others would follow HKTB's move as other companies should make their own judgment call.\n\n"}
{"id": "28198715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28198715", "title": "INDEX: Design to Improve Life", "text": "INDEX: Design to Improve Life\n\nINDEX: Design to Improve Life is a Danish nonprofit organisation which works towards promoting designs aimed at the improvement of human lives worldwide, both in developed and developing countries. The organization is behind the biennial INDEX: Award, the world's biggest design award.\n\nEstablished in 2002, INDEX: Design to Improve Life was initially proposed by designer Johan Adam Linneballe and then Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Economic and Business Affairs as a world design event in order to promote Denmark on a global scale, as well as attract tourism and investments. However, it soon acquired a global perspective, and its mission has become expressed in its motto: \"Design to Improve Life\".\n\nThe organisation is under the patronage of the Crown Prince and Crown Princess of Denmark, is supported by the Danish Ministry of Business and Growth. INDEX: Design to Improve Life is promoted by means of a design award, the INDEX: Award, a world-touring exhibition, a summer camp, conferences, and publications. It is headed by Kigge Hvid, former CEO of Øksnehallen.\n\nThe biennial INDEX: Award was initiated in 2005, financed by the state of Denmark with a total prize sum of . It is currently the world's largest monetary award in its area, is widely recognized as the most influential in inspiring life-improving design, and has often been dubbed the \"Nobel Prize of design\". British design critic Alice Rawsthorn in 2011, wrote for \"The New York Times\", \"Not only is INDEX: the world's most generous design prize in financial terms, it is one of the few awards to have made a meaningful contribution to design discourse.\"\n\nProjects from around the world are entered into competition for the award with finalists and winners determined by an international jury. In addition to choosing the successful designs, the INDEX: Award Jury plays a key role in the organization, discussing, evaluating and advocating for strategies to expand the borders and impact of design in the world. The INDEX: Award Presentation has become a major event, with an exhibition of the finalists sited in public squares of hosting cities.\n\nThe first INDEX: Award was announced in September 2004, and the competition received 538 entries representing 50 countries, of which the INDEX: Award Jury chaired by Arnold Wasserman selected 118 finalists to participate in the INDEX: Award Exhibition. The winners, announced at the award ceremony at the Copenhagen City Hall on 22 September, were:\n\n\nIn 2007, INDEX: Award received 337 entries, of which the INDEX: Award Jury chaired by Nille Juul-Sørensen selected 112 for nomination, and 110 were exhibited on Kongens Nytorv. The winners, announced at the award ceremony at the Copenhagen City Hall on 24 August, were:\n\nIn 2009, INDEX: Award received 720 entries from 54 countries, of which the INDEX: Award Jury chaired by Designit co-founder Mikal Hallstrup selected 72 for nomination and exhibition on Kongens Nytorv as part of the first Copenhagen Design Week. The winners, announced at the award ceremony at Koncerthuset on 28 August, were:\n\n\nThe INDEX: Award Exhibition subsequently went on tour to Seoul and Singapore among others.\n\nIn 2011, INDEX: Award received 966 entries from 78 countries, of which the INDEX: Award Jury chaired by Nille Juul-Sørensen selected 58 for nomination and participation in the INDEX: Award Exhibition outside the Royal Danish Playhouse on the harbor front in the Frederiksstaden neighbourhood of central Copenhagen. The winners announced at the award ceremony at the Copenhagen Opera House on 1 September were:\n\n\nThe 2013 INDEX: Award broke all previous records by receiving 1.022 entries for the competition from 73 countries, of which the INDEX: Award Jury chaired by Mikal Hallstrup selected 59 for nomination and participation in the INDEX: Award Exhibition in Rosenborg Castle Gardens. The winners, announced at the award ceremony on 29 August at Kulturværftet in Elsinore under the attendance of Mary, Crown Princess of Denmark, were:\n\nThe 2015 INDEX: Awards were presented at Kulturværftet in Elsinore on 27 August, honoring five winners among the 46 shortlisted finalists chosen from a pool of 1123 entries from 72 countries. The winners were:\n"}
{"id": "48714730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48714730", "title": "Ideoscape", "text": "Ideoscape\n\nIdeoscape is a term used to describe one of Arjun Appadurai’s five dimensions of global cultural flows. The five dimensions consist of ethnoscapes, mediascapes, technoscapes, financescapes, and ideoscapes. The suffix -\"scape\" denotes that these terms are perspectival constructs inflected by the historical, linguistic, and political situatedness of different kinds of actors: \"nation-states, multinationals, diasporic communities, as well as subnational groupings and movements\". This can either be religious, political, or economic. Because cultural exchange and transactions have typically been restricted in the past due to geographical and economical aspects, Appadurai’s five dimensions give the opportunity for cultural transactions to occur. Ideoscapes is the movement of ideologies. It is often political and usually has to do with the ideologies of states and the counterideologies of movements explicitly oriented to capturing state power or a piece of it. Ideoscapes are usually composed of ideas, terms, and images including “freedom, welfare, rights, sovereignty, representation, and democracy”.\n"}
{"id": "3376850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3376850", "title": "Indian martial arts", "text": "Indian martial arts\n\nIndian martial arts refers to the fighting systems of the Indian subcontinent. A variety of terms are used for the English phrases “Indian martial arts”, usually deriving from Sanskrit or Dravidian sources. While they may seem to imply specific disciplines (e.g. archery, armed combat), by Classical times they were used generically for all fighting systems.\n\nAmong the most common terms today, \"śastra-vidyā\", is a compound of the words ' (weapon) and ' (knowledge). \"Dhanurveda\" derives from the words for bow (') and knowledge ('), the “science of archery” in Puranic literature, later applied to martial arts in general. The Vishnu Purana text describes dhanuveda as one of the traditional eighteen branches of “applied knowledge” or upaveda, along with \"shastrashastra\" or military science. A later term, \"yuddha kalā\", comes from the words \"yuddha\" meaning fight or combat and \"kalā\" meaning art or skill. The related term \"śastra kalā\" (lit. weapon art) usually refers specifically to armed disciplines. Another term, \"yuddha-vidyā\" or “combat knowledge”, refers to the skills used on the battlefield, encompassing not only actual fighting but also battle formations and strategy. Martial arts are usually learnt and practiced in the traditional akharas.\n\n\"Dhanurveda\", a section found in the Vedas (1700 BCE - 1100 BCE) contains references to martial arts. Indian epics contain the earliest accounts of combat, both armed and bare-handed. Most deities of the Hindu-Buddhist pantheon are armed with their own personal weapon, and are revered not only as master martial artists but often as originators of those systems themselves. The \"Mahabharata\" tells of fighters armed only with daggers besting lions, and describes a prolonged battle between Arjuna and Karna using bows, swords, trees, rocks and fists. Another unarmed battle in the Mahabharata describes two combatants boxing with clenched fists and fighting with kicks, finger strikes, knee strikes and headbutts.\n\nThe oldest recorded organized unarmed fighting art in the Indian subcontinent is malla-yuddha or combat-wrestling, codified into four forms and pre-dating the Vedic Period. Stories describing Krishna report that he sometimes engaged in wrestling matches where he used knee strikes to the chest, punches to the head, hair pulling, and strangleholds. Based on such accounts, Svinth (2002) traces press-ups and squats used by Indian wrestlers to the pre-classical era.\n\nIn Sanskrit literature the term \"dwandwayuddha\" referred to a duel, such that it was a battle between only two warriors and not armies. Epics often describe the duels between deities and god-like heroes as lasting a month or more. The malla-yuddha (wrestling match) between Bhima and Jarasandha lasts 27 days. Similarly, the \"dwandayuddha\" between Parasurama and Bhishma lasts for 30 days, while that between Krishna and Jambavan lasts for 28 days. Likewise, the \"dwandwayudda\" between Bali and Dundubhi, a demon in the form of a water buffalo, lasts for 45 days. The Manusmriti tells that if a warrior's topknot comes loose during such a fight or duel, the opponent must give him time to bind his hair before continuing.\n\nThe \"Charanavyuha\" authored by Shaunaka mentions four \"upaveda\" (applied Vedas). Included among them are archery (\"dhanurveda\") and military sciences (\"shastrashastra\"), the mastery of which was the duty (\"dharma\") of the warrior class. Kings usually belonged to the kshatria (warrior) class and thus served as heads of the army. They typically practiced archery, wrestling, boxing, and swordsmanship as part of their education. Examples include such rulers as Siddhartha Gautama and Rudradaman. The Chinese monk Xuanzang writes that the emperor Harsha was light on his feet despite his advancing age and managed to dodge and seize an assailant during an assassination attempt.\n\nMany of the popular sports mentioned in the Vedas and the epics have their origins in military training, such as boxing (\"musti-yuddha\"), wrestling (\"maladwandwa\"), chariot-racing (\"rathachalan\"), horse-riding (\"aswa-rohana\") and archery (\"dhanurvidya\"). Competitions were held not just as a contest of the players' prowess but also as a means of finding a bridegroom. Arjuna, Rama and Siddhartha Gautama all won their consorts in such tournaments.\n\nIn the 3rd century, elements from the Yoga Sutras of Patanjali, as well as finger movements in the \"nata\" dances, were incorporated into the fighting arts. A number of Indian fighting styles remain closely connected to yoga, dance and performing arts. Some of the choreographed sparring in kalaripayat can be applied to dance and kathakali dancers who knew kalaripayat were believed to be markedly better than other performers. Until recent decades, the chhau dance was performed only by martial artists. Some traditional Indian classical dance schools still incorporate martial arts as part of their exercise regimen.\n\nWritten evidence of martial arts in Southern India dates back to the Sangam literature of about the 2nd century BC to the 2nd century AD. The Akananuru and Purananuru describe the use of spears, swords, shields, bows and silambam in the Sangam era. The word kalari appears in the \"Puram\" (verses 225, 237, 245, 356) and \"Akam\" (verses 34, 231, 293) to describe both a battlefield and combat arena. The word \"kalari tatt\" denoted a martial feat, while \"kalari kozhai\" meant a coward in war. Each warrior in the Sangam era received regular military training in target practice and horse riding. They specialized in one or more of the important weapons of the period including the spear (\"vel\"), sword (\"val\"), shield (\"kedaham\"), and bow and arrow (\"vil ambu\"). The combat techniques of the Sangam period were the earliest precursors to kalaripayat. References to “Silappadikkaram” in Sangam literature date back to the 2nd century. This referred to the silambam staff which was in great demand with foreign visitors.\n\nThe ten fighting styles of northern sastra-vidya were said to have been created in different areas based on animals and gods, and designed for the particular geography of their origin. Tradition ascribes their convergence to the 6th-century Buddhist university of Takshashila, ancient India's intellectual capital. Located in present-day Panjab, Pakistan, the Ramayana ascribes the city's founding to Bharata who named it after his son Taksha. From the 7th to the 5th centuries BC it was held in high regard as a great centre of trade and learning, attracting students from throughout present-day Pakistan and northern India. Among the subjects taught were the “military sciences”, and archery was one of its prime arts.\n\nSome measures were put into place to discourage martial activity during the Buddhist period. The Khandhaka in particular forbids wrestling, boxing, archery, and swordsmanship. However, references to fighting arts are found in early Buddhist texts, such as the Lotus Sutra (c. 1st century AD) which refers to a boxing art while speaking to Manjusri. It also categorised combat techniques as joint locks, fist strikes, grapples and throws. The Lotus Sutra makes further mention of a martial art with dance-like movements called \"Nara\". Another Buddhist sutra called \"Hongyo-kyo\" (佛本行集經) describes a “strength contest” between Gautama Buddha's half-brother Prince Nanda and his cousin Devadatta. Siddhartha Gautama himself was a champion wrestler and swordsman before becoming the Buddha.\n\nLike other branches of Sanskrit literature, treatises on martial arts become more systematic in the course of the 1st millennium AD. Vajra-musti, an armed grappling style, is mentioned in sources of the early centuries AD. Around this time, tantric philosophers developed important metaphysical concepts such as kundalini, chakra, and mantra.\n\nThe \"Sushruta Samhita\" (c. 4th century) identifies 107 vital points on the human body of which 64 were classified as being lethal if properly struck with a fist or stick. Sushruta's work formed the basis of the medical discipline ayurveda which was taught alongside various martial arts. With numerous other scattered references to vital points in Vedic and epic sources, it is certain that Indian subcontinent's early fighters knew and practised attacking or defending vital points.\n\nAround 630, King Narasimhavarman of the Pallava dynasty commissioned dozens of granite sculptures showing unarmed fighters disarming armed opponents. This is similar to the style described in the \"Agni Purana\".\n\nMartial arts were not exclusive to the kshatriya caste, though the warrior class used them more extensively. The 8th-century text \"Kuvalaymala\" by Udyotanasuri recorded fighting techniques being taught at educational institutions, where non-kshatriya students from throughout the subcontinent “were learning and practicing archery, fighting with sword and shield, with daggers, sticks, lances, and with fists, and in duels (\"niyuddham\")”. Hindu priests of the traditional gurukula still teach unarmed fighting techniques to their students as a way of increasing stamina and training the physical body.\n\nThe Gurjara-Pratihara came into power during the 7th century and founded a kyshatria dynasty in northern India which exceeded the preceding Gupta Empire. During this period, Emperor Nagabhata I (750–780 AD) and Mihir Bhoja I (836–890) commissioned various texts on martial arts, and were themselves practitioners of these systems. \"Shiva Dhanuveda\" was composed in this era. The \"khadga\", a two-handed broad-tipped heavy longsword, was given special preference. It was even used for \"khadga-puja\", ritualised worship of the sword. The Gurjara-Pratiharas continuously fought off Arab invasions, particularly during the Caliphate campaigns in India. The Arab chronicler Sulaiman wrote of the Gurjara ruler as the greatest foe to Islamic expansion, while at the same time praising his cavalry. The Gurjara people still keep up their tradition of gatka and kushti, and until today there are world-class wrestlers from the community competing at national and international levels.\n\nKalaripayat had developed into its present form by the 11th century, during an extended period of warfare between the Chera and Chola dynasties. The earliest treatise discussing the techniques of malla-yuddha is the \"Malla Purana\" (c. 13th century), unlike the earlier \"Manasollasa\" which gives the names of movements but no descriptions.\n\nOver a period of several centuries, invading Muslim armies managed to occupy much of present-day Pakistan and northern India. In response to the spread of Muslim rule, the kingdoms of south India united in the 14th century to found the Vijayanagara Empire. Physical culture was given much attention by both royalty and commoners in the empire, with wrestling being particularly popular with both men and women. Gymnasiums have been discovered inside royal quarters of Vijayanagara, and records speak of regular physical training for commanders and their armies during peace time. Royal palaces and market places had special arenas where royalty and common people alike amused themselves by watching matches such as cock fights, ram fights and wrestling. One account describes an akhara in Chandragiri where noblemen practiced jumping exercises, boxing, fencing and wrestling almost everyday before dinner to maintain their health, and observed that “men as old as seventy years look only thirty”.\n\nThe Italian traveller Pietro Della Valle wrote of cane-fighting in southern India. According to Pietro, it was the custom for soldiers to specialise in their own particular weapon of expertise and never use any other even during war, “thereby becoming very expert and well practised in that which he takes to”.\n\nAs their ancient predecessors, swordplay and wrestling were commonly practiced by the royalty of Vijayanagara. Krishna Deva Raya is said to have arranged a duel between a champion swordsman and the prince of Odisha who was known for being an expert with both the sword and dagger. The prince accepted the challenge until he learned he would be fighting one not of royal blood and so killed himself rather than having to “soil his hands”. Fernao Nunes and the Persian envoy Adbur Razzak relate that Deva Raya II survived an assassination attempt “as he was a man who knew how to use both sword and dagger better than anyone in his kingdom, avoided by twists and turns of his body the thrusts aimed at him, freed himself from him, and slew him with a short sword that he had.”\n\nAfter a series of victories, the Central Asian conqueror Babur established Mughal rule in north India during the 16th century. The Mughals were patrons of India's native arts, not only recruiting akhara-trained Rajput fighters for their armies but even practicing these systems themselves. The \"Ausanasa Dhanurveda Sankalanam\" dates to the late 16th century, compiled under the patronage of Akbar. The \"Ain-i-Akbari\" tells that the Mughal court had various kinds of fighting men from around the empire who would demonstrate their skills every day in exchange for rewards. Among them were said to be both native and Mughal wrestlers, slingers from Gujarat, Hindustani athletes, boxers, stone-throwers and many others.\n\n“There are several kinds of gladiators, each performing astonishing feats. In fighting they show much speed and agility and blend courage and skill in squatting down and rising up again. Some of them use shields in fighting, others use cudgels. Others again use no means of defence, and fight with one hand only; these are called \"ek-hath\". Those who come from the eastern districts of Hindostan use a small shield called “\"chirwah\"”. Those from the southern provinces have shields of such magnitude as to cover a man and a horse. This kind of shield is called \"tilwah\". Another class use a shield somewhat less than the height of a man. Some again use a long sword, and seizing it with both hands they perform extraordinary feats of skill. There is another famous class called Bankúlis. They have no shield but make use of a peculiar kind of sword which, though curved towards the point, is straight near the handle. They wield it with great dexterity. The skill that they exhibit passes all description. Others are skilful in fighting with daggers and knives of various forms; of these there are upwards of a hundred thousand. Each class has a different name; they also differ in their performances. At court there are a thousand gladiators always in readiness.”\n\nAvid hunters, a popular sport among the Mughals was \"shikar\" or tiger-hunting. While often done with arrows and later even rifles, it was considered most impressive to kill a tiger with a hand-to-hand weapon such as a sword or dagger. A warrior who managed to best a tiger would be awarded the title of \"Pachmar\".\n\nIn the 16th century, Madhusudana Saraswati of Bengal organised a section of the Naga tradition of armed sannyasi in order to protect Hindus from the intolerant Mughal rulers. Although generally said to abide by the principle of non-violence (\"ahimsā\"), these Dashanami monks had long been forming akhara for the practice of both yoga and martial arts. Such warrior-ascetics have been recorded from 1500 to as late as the 18th century, although tradition attributes their creation to the 8th-century philosopher Sankaracharya. They began as a stratum of Rajput warriors who would gather after harvest and arm peasants into militarised units, effectively acting as a self-defense squad. Prevalent in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Bengal, they would give up their occupations and leave their families to live as mercenaries. Naga sadhu today rarely practice any form of fighting other than wrestling, but still carry trishula, swords, canes and spears. To this day their retreats are called \"chhauni\" or armed camps, and they have been known to hold mock jousts among themselves. As recently as the 1950s, it was not unusual for Naga sadhu to strike to kill someone over issues of honour.\n\nThere is also a 17th-century \"Dhanurveda-samhita\" attributed to Vasistha.\n\nComing from a hilly region characterized by valleys and caves, the Marathas became expert horsemen who favoured light armour and highly mobile cavalry units during war. Known especially as masters of swords and spears, their heavily martial culture and propensity for the lance is mentioned as early as the 7th century by Xuanzang. After serving the Dakshin sultanates of the early 17th century, the scattered Marathas united to found their own kingdom under the warrior Shivaji Raje. Having learned the native art of mardani khela from a young age, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj was a master swordsman and proficient in the use of various weapons. He took advantage of his people's expertise in guerilla tactics (\"Shiva sutra\") to re-establish \"Hindavi Swarajya\" (native [Hindu being a term traditionally applied to the native inhabitants of India throughout antiquity] self-rule) at a time of Muslim supremacy and increasing intolerance. Utilizing speed, focused surprise attacks (typically at night and in rocky terrain), and the geography of Maharashtra, Karnataka, & South India; the Maratha rulers were successfully able to defend their territory from the more numerous and heavily armed Mughals. The still-existing Maratha Light Infantry is one of the “oldest and most renowned” regiments of the Indian Army, tracing its origins to 1768.\n\nPaika is the Odia word for fighter or warrior. Their training schools, known as paika akhada, can be traced back to ancient Kalinga and their art was at one time patronised by King Kharavela. In March 1817, under the leadership of Bakshi Jagabandhu Bidyadhar Mohapatra, nearly 400 Khanda of Ghumusar in Ganjam marched towards Khordha in protest against British colonial rule. Many government buildings were burnt down and all the officials fled. The British commander of one detachment was killed during a battle at Gangapada. The paika managed to capture two bases at Puri and Pipli before spreading the rebellion further to Gop, Tiran, Kanika and Kujang. The revolt lasted a year and a half before being quelled by September 1818. Today the paika akhada are known mainly for their street performances during festivals.\n\nIndian martial arts underwent a period of decline after the full establishment of British colonial rule in the 19th century. More European modes of organizing kings, armies and governmental institutions, and the increasing use of firearms, gradually eroded the need for traditional combat training associated with caste-specific duties. The British colonial government banned kalaripayat in 1804 in response to a series of revolts. Silambam was also banned and became more common in the Malay Peninsula than its native Tamil Nadu. Nevertheless, traditional fighting systems persisted, sometimes even under the patronage of enthusiastic British spectators who tended to remark on the violence of native boxing and the acrobatic movements characteristic of Indian fighting styles.\n\nThe British took advantage of communities with a heavily militaristic culture, characterising them as “martial races” and employing them in the armed forces. Sikhs - already known among Indians for their martial practices - were particularly valued by the colonists as soldiers and guards, and were posted throughout not only India but Southeast Asia and other parts of the British Empire. Members of the army were allowed to box as a way of settling disputes, provided that they were still able to carry out their duties as soldiers after a match. The particular form of boxing used by the Punjabi soldiers was \"loh-musti\", as the kara worn by Sikhs could be wielded like brass knuckles.\n\nThe resurgence of public interest in kalaripayat began in the 1920s in Tellicherry as part of a wave of rediscovery of the traditional arts throughout south India which characterised the growing reaction against British colonial rule. During the following three decades, other regional styles were subsequently revived such as silambam in Tamil Nadu, thang-ta in Manipur and paika akhada in Orissa.\n\nOne of the earliest extant manual of Indian martial arts is in the Agni Purana (dated to between the 8th and the 11th century), The dhanurveda section in the Agni Purana spans chapters 248–251, categorizing weapons into thrown and unthrown classes and further divided into several sub-classes. It catalogs training into five major divisions for different types of warriors, namely charioteers, elephant-riders, horsemen, infantry, and wrestlers.\n\nThe nine asanas (stances) in the fight are listed below:\n\nThen there follows a more detailed discussion of archery technique.\n\nThe section concludes with listing the names of actions or “deeds” possible with a number of weapons, including 32 positions to be taken with sword and shield (\"), 11 names of techniques of using a rope in fighting, along with 5 names of “acts in the rope operation” along with lists of “deeds” pertaining to the chakram (war-quoit), the spear, the \"tomara\" (iron club), the gada (mace), the axe, the hammer, the \"bhindipāla\" or \"laguda\", the vajra, the dagger, the slingshot, and finally deeds with a bludgeon or cudgel. A short passage near the end of the text returns to the larger concerns of warfare and explains the various uses of war elephants and men. The text concludes with a description of how to appropriately send the well-trained fighter off to war.\n\nThe Arthashastra, c. 4th century BCE, typically attributed to Chanakya chief advisor of Chandragupt Maurya is one of the earliest treatises on state craft, including diverse topics such as economics, politics, diplomacy and military strategy.\n\nThere is an extant \"Dhanurveda-Samhita\" dating to the mid-14th century, by Brhat Sarngadhara Paddhati (ed. 1888).\nOther scattered references to fighting arts in medieval texts include the:\n\"Kamandakiya Nitisara\" (c. 8th century ed. Manmatha Nath Dutt, 1896),\nThe \"Nitivakyamrta\" by Somadeva Suri (10th century),\nThe \"Yuktikalpataru\" of Bhoja (11th century) and\nThe \"Manasollasa\" of Somesvara III (12th century)\n\nA wide array of weapons are used in the Indian subcontinent, some of which are not found anywhere else. According to P.C. Chakravati in \"The Art of War in Ancient India\", armies used standard weapons such as wooden or metal tipped spears, swords, thatched bamboo, wooden or metal shields, axes, short and long bows in warfare as early as the 4th century BC. Military accounts of the Gupta Empire (c. 240–480) and the later Agni Purana identify over 130 different weapons.\n\nThe \"Agni Purana\" divides weapons into thrown and unthrown classes. The thrown (\"mukta\") class includes twelve weapons altogether which come under four categories, viz.\n\nThese were opposed to the much larger unthrown class of three categories.\n\nThe duel with bow and arrows is considered the most noble, fighting with the spear ranks next, while fighting with the sword is considered unrefined, and wrestling is classed as the meanest or worst form of fighting. Only a Brahmins could be an acharya (teacher) of sastravidya, Kshatriya and vaishya should learn from the Acharya, while a shudra could not take a teacher, left to “fight of his own in danger”.\n\nOver time, weaponry evolved and India became famous for its flexible wootz steel. The most commonly taught weapons in the Indian martial arts today are types of swords, daggers, spears, staves, cudgels and maces.\n\nWeapons are linked to several superstitions and cultural beliefs in the Indian subcontinent. Drawing a weapon without reason is forbidden and considered by Hindus to be disrespectful to the goddess Chandika. Thus the saying that a sword cannot be sheathed until it has drawn blood. It was a mother's duty to tie a warrior's sword around his waist before war or a duel. In addition, she would cut her finger with the sword and make a tilak on his head from a drop of her blood. Weapons themselves were also anointed with tilak, most often from the blood of a freshly-decapitated goat (\"chatanga\"). Other taboos include looking at one's reflection in the blade, telling the price or source of acquisition, throwing it on the ground or using it for domestic purposes.\n\nNakula and Sahadeva are said to be skilled swordsmen in Mahabharata. Sword-fighting is one of the common Indian fighting arts. Varieties include the curved single-edge sword, the straight double-edge sword, the two-handed longsword, the gauntlet-sword, and the urumi or flexible sword. Techniques differ from one state to another but all make extensive use of circular movements, often circling the weapon around the user's head. The flexible nature and light weight of Indian swords allows for speed but provides little defensive ability, so that the swordsman must instead rely on body maneuvers to dodge attacks. Entire systems exist focusing on drawing the sword out of the opponent's body. Stances and forms traditionally made up the early training before students progress to free sparring with sticks to simulate swords in an exercise called gatka, although this term is more often used in English when referring to the Panjabi-Sikh fighting style. A common way to practice precision-cutting is to slice cloves or lemons, eventually doing so while blindfolded. Pairing two swords of equal length, though considered impractical in some parts of the world, is common and was considered highly advantageous in the Indian subcontinent.\n\nStick-fighting (lathi khela) may be taught as part of a wider system like Gatka, silambam or on its own. In the \"Kama Sutra\" the sage Vātsyāyana enjoins all women to practice fighting with single-stick, quarterstaff, sword and bow and arrow in addition to the art of love-making. The stick (\"lathi\" in Prakrit) is typically made of bamboo with steel caps at the ends to prevent it from splintering. Wooden sticks made from Indian ebony may also be used. It ranges from the length of a cudgel to a staff equal to the wielders height. The stick used during matches is covered in leather to cushion the impact. Points are awarded based on which part of the body is hit. Techniques differ from system to system, but northern styles tend to primarily use only one end of the staff for attacking while the other end is held with both hands.\n\nSikh martial art Gatka was developed in the North by sixth Sikh Guru, Guru Hargobind Sahib and it was further developed and preached by tenth Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh. Gatka is associated with the Sikhs history and an integral part of an array of Sikh Shastar Vidiya developed during 15th century for self-defense. Southern styles like also make use of this technique but will more often use both ends of the staff to strike. The latter is the more common method of attacking in the eastern states and Bangladesh, combined with squatting and frequent changes in height.\n\nYudhishthira is said to be a master in spearplay warfare in \"Mahabharata\", while Shalya was also noted to be an excellent warrior in the field of spearplay. Also according to Indian Hindu myths, Kartikeya, the son of Lord Shiva, is said to be skilled in spear-fighting, by holding his divine spear called Vel. The Indian spear is typically made of bamboo with a steel blade. It can be used in hand-to-hand combat or thrown when the fighters are farther apart. Despite primarily being a thrusting weapon, the wide spearhead also allows for many slashing techniques. By the 17th century, Rajput mercenaries in the Mughal army were using a type of spear which integrated a pointed spear butt and a club near the head, making it similar to a mace. On the other hand, the longer cavalry spear was made of wood, with red cloth attached near the blade to prevent the opponent's blood from dripping to the shaft. The Marathas were revered for their skill of wielding a ten-foot spear called \"bothati\" () from horseback. Bothati fighting is practiced with a ball-tipped lance, the end of which is covered in dye so that hits may easily be confirmed. In solo training, the spear is aimed at a pile of stones. From this was eventually developed the uniquely Indian \"vita\" which has a length of cord attached to the butt end of the weapon and tied around the spearman's wrist. Using this cord the spear can be pulled back after it has been thrown.\n\nArchery is noted to be one of the noblest form of defense within Indian cultural heritage. Siddharta Gautama was a champion with the bow, while Rama, Arjuna, Karna, Bhishma, Drona and Ekalavya of the epics were all said to be peerless archers. \n\nIndian bows were described as the height of their users by Arrian, and Deccan bows in 1518 as “long like those of England”. Composite bows are shown in Mughal artwork. \n\nTraditional archery is today practiced mainly in the far northern states of Ladakh and Arunachal. One sport which has persisted into the present day is \"thoda\" from Himachal Pradesh, in which a team of archers attempt to shoot blunt arrows at the legs of the opposing team.\n\nMace (gada) is the weapon of God Hanuman in Ramayana. Lord Vishnu also carries a gada named Kaumodaki in one of his four hands. In the Mahabharata epic, the fighters Bhima, Duryodhana, Jarasandha and Balarama were said to be masters of the gada. In the mace combat, Bhima wins the final battle against Duryodhana by hitting his inner thigh. Such an attack below the waist was said to be against the etiquette of mace duels, implying a degree of commonality to this type of fighting. It was and still is used as training equipment by wrestlers. The traditional gada (mace) was essentially a wooden or steel sphere mounted on a handle and with a single spike at the top. An alternative mace-head was the lotus-shaped \"padam\". According to the \"Agni Purana\", the gada can be handled in twenty different ways. Due to its weight, the gada is said to be best suited to fighters with a large build or great strength. The Mughal club or mace, known as a \"gurj\" or \"gargaj\", had a head consisting of 8-10 petal-shaped blades. Fitted with basket-hilt, a spherical pommel, and a spiked top, this type of club was designed for beating down armour-clad opponents. Alternatively, some gurj had a spiked top and a hand-guard.\n\nGrappling arts (\"malla-vidya\"), practiced either as sport or fighting style, are found throughout the entirety of the Indian subcontinent. True combat-wrestling is called malla-yuddha, while the term malakhra refers to wrestling for sport. Malla-yuddha was codified into four forms which progressed from purely sportive contests of strength to actual full-contact fights known as \"yuddha\". Due to the extreme violence, this final form is generally no longer practised. The second form, wherein the wrestlers attempt to lift each other off the ground for three seconds, persists in Karnataka. Traditional malla-yuddha is virtually extinct in the north where it has been supplanted by kusti, but another form called malakhra still exists in parts of India and Sindh, Pakistan. Vajra-musti was another old grappling art in which the competitors wrestled while wearing a horned knuckleduster. In a later style called \"naki ka kusti\" (claw wrestling), the duellists fought with bagh nakha. Numerous styles of folk wrestling are also found in India's countryside, such as mukna from Manipur and Inbuan wrestling from Mizoram.\n\nBoxing (musti-yuddha) is traditionally considered the roughest form of Indian unarmed combat. In ancient times it was popular throughout northern Indian subcontinent, but is rarely practiced today. Boxers harden their fists by striking stone and other hard objects. Matches may be either one-on-one or group fights. All kinds of strikes and grabs are allowed, and any part of the body may be targeted except the groin. Another form of boxing was \"loh-musti\" (meaning “iron fist”), said to have been practiced by the God Krishna. In this variation, boxers fought while wielding a kara or steel bracelet like a knuckleduster. Grabs, kicks, biting and attacks to the groin were all legal, the only prohibition being spitting on the opponent which was considered crude and dishonourable. The kara used for regular matches was unadorned, but the form employed during war had one or more spikes around its edge. The kara may be paired with one on each hand, but it was generally only worn on one hand so the other hand could be left free. In some cases the free hand could be paired with another weapon, most commonly the bagh nakha.\n\nKick-fighting(\"aki kiti\") is the preserve of tribes from Nagaland. While the entire Naga population of northeast India and northwest Myanmar was traditionally known for their skill with broadswords (\"dao\") and other weapons, disputes among tribesmen and between tribes were settled with a solely kick-based form of unarmed fighting. The goal is to either drive the opponent to their knees or outside of the ring. Only the feet are used to strike, and even blocking must be done with the legs.\n\nMany forms of unarmed combat (\"bāhu-yuddha\" or \"bhuja-yuddha\") incorporate too wide an array of techniques to be accurately categorized. In modern times when the carrying of weapons is no longer legal, teachers of the martial arts often emphasise the unarmed techniques as these are seen to be more practical for self-defense purposes. A warrior who fights unarmed is referred to as a \"bhajanh\", literally meaning someone who fights with their arms. The bare-handed components of Indian fighting arts are typically based on the movements of animals or Hindu deities. Binot, a Central Indian art which focuses on defending against both armed and unarmed opponents, may be the earliest system of its kind. In the Mughal era, such fighters were known as \"ek-hath\" (lit. “one-hand”), so named because they would demonstrate their art using only one arm.\n\n64 different types of skills & arts existed in ancient India which lead to well developed individuals boosting their mind, body and intellect making them capable of performing their responsibilities efficiently and effectively on personal, social and national level. Today, unhealthy and irregular lifestyles, frustrations and rising competitions in every sphere of life are affecting the health of people, especially the youth. In such a scenario, one of the ancient Indian arts referred to as “Bal Vidya” can help not only to improve the physical health but also upscale the mental and intellectual well-being of a person. A strong mind and intellect is equally important along with a strong body. Shree Aniruddha Upasana Foundation (Mumbai, India) attempts to review these ancient Indian martial arts form and provides “Bal Vidya” training to both men and women free of charge. Art forms like Mudgal Vidya, Vajra Mushthi, Surya Bhedan, Ashwa and various types of Yashwanti Malla Vidya using various weapons like Laathi (iron-bound bamboo stick), Kaathi (Pole), Fari-Gadga, Dorkhand (rope)and Dandpatta (gauntlet-sword). A book detailing all these art forms with the title “Bhartiya Prachin Bal Vidya” (The Ancient Indian Bal Art) is also available for achieving proficiency through practice post attending training sessions.\n\nAs in other respects of Indian culture, Indian martial arts can be roughly divided into northern and southern styles. The northern systems (including Pakistan and Bangladesh) may generically be referred to as \"shastra-vidiya\", although this term is often used synonymously with gatka. The main difference is that the north was more exposed to Persianate influence during the Mughal period, while the south is more conservative in preserving ancient and medieval traditions. The exception to this rule are the northeastern states which, due to their geographic location, were closed off from most pre-European foreign invaders. As a result, northeast Indian culture and fighting methods are also closely related to that of Southeast Asia. In addition to the major division between north and south, martial systems in the Indian subcontinent tend to be associated with certain states, cities, villages or ethnic groups.\n\nMasters in Andhra Pradesh trace their lineage to the Vijayanagara empire, popular in Konaseema region. The native system of \"Chedi Talimkhana\" or \"yudhkaushalya che talim\" is often abbreviated to Talimkhana or simply Talim. The art makes use of several weapons which are used in preset forms. These include knife fighting (\"baku samu\"), sword fighting (\"katti samu\"), and staff fighting (\"kara samu\") in addition to other weapons such as the gada (mace) and pata (guantlet sword).\n\nBengali war-dances bear testament to the weapons once used in the Bengal region. Today most of these weapons are used only in choreographed fights, including \"dao khela\" (knife fighting) and \"fala khela\" (sword fighting). Traditional stick-fighting (lathi khela) is still used in free sparring today. The sticks may be short like a cudgel or a long staff. The former are sometimes paired with a shield.\n\n“Pari-khanda” is a fighting form created by Rajputs and is still practised in many parts of Bihar. “Pari” means shield and “khanda” means sword according “Chhau” region, therefore this art uses sword and shield for fighting. This fighting form has given birth to a local dance form named “Chhau” dance and its martial elements have been fully absorbed by this dance. It is even practised in some parts of Jharkhand and Odisha. Chhau is the name of the traditional dance- drama of the eastern regions of India and is of three types. The three forms of “Chhau” are named after the district or village where they are performed, i.e. the Purulia Chau of Bengal, the Seraikella Chau of Bihar and the Mayurbhanj Chau of Orissa.\n\nThe Kannada fighting arts are taught exclusively at traditional training halls or \"garadi mane\". Disciplines include unarmed combat (\"kai varase\"), staff-fighting (\"kolu varase\") and sword-fighting (\"katti varase\") among various other weapons. These are most often seen today only during choreographed demonstrations at festivals.\n\nKashmiri swordsmanship is said to have an ancient history, but it was only much later that it acquired its modern name of sqay. Sqay survived a decline following the partition of India by adopting competitive methodologies of karate and taekwondo. Types of competition include sparring, breaking, and forms or \"khawankay\". Pracitioners spar using fake swords called \"tora\" which are paired with a shield. Sparring is point-based, the points being awarded for successful hits with the tora or with the foot.\n\nThe Keralite art of fighting came into its present form through the kalari, the local variation of the gurukula educational institution. Historically, the warrior groups of Kerala practiced Kalaripayut. Today there are three branches of kalaripayat: northern, central and southern. Training progresses from footwork and stances to unarmed techniques, blunt weapons, and finally to edged weapons. The most common weapons today are the staff, stick, sword, shield, spear, dagger and flexible sword.\n\nThe Marathas developed their fighting style based on the state's hilly geography. Mardani khel today teaches armed techniques for use in single combat as well as defense against several opponents. Other weapons include the sword, shield, spear, dagger, kukri, double deer horns, and bow and arrow.\n\nThe Manipuri art of \"huyen lalong\" was once practiced by the state's indigenous hill tribes who would engage in duels governed by strict rules of conduct. The armed component called thang-ta is named after the system's main weapons, the \"thang\" (sword) and \"ta\" (spear). Practitioners spar through \"cheibi gatka\" in which a foam sword is used together with a shield. Unarmed huyen lalong is called \"sarit-sarak\" and is used in conjunction with thang-ta when the fighter loses their weapon.\n\nThe Orissan martial art traces back to the \"paika\" class of warriors who were particularly known for their use of the \"khanda\" or double-edge straight sword. During times of peace, the paika would hone their skills through martial dances, forms-training and various acrobatics. Their descendants have preserved these exercises in training halls called paika akhada, and demonstrate them mainly through street performances. Their method of sword training called \"pari-khanda\" is still used as the first part of the chhau dance. Other weapons include the staff and guantlet-sword.\n\nMartial arts in northwest India and adjacent Pakistan were traditionally referred to by several terms but the most common today is \"shastara-vidiya\" or “science of self defense”. Swordsmen practiced their techniques either in routines using real swords, or freestyle sparring with wooden sticks called gatka, a form of stick-fighting. Gatka is associated with the Sikhs history and an integral part of an array of Sikh Shastar Vidiya. During the colonial period, the term \"gatka\" was extended to mean northwestern martial arts in general. Some aspects of the art, such as the unarmed techniques or fighting in armour, are today practiced almost exclusively by the Nihang order of Sikhs. Gatka incorporates several forms, each with their own set of weapons, strategies and footwork. In the late 18th century, this martial art further developed as a recreational game and Panjab University Lahore codified its rules for playing it as a game.\n\nThe native Tamil martial art has come to be referred to as silambam after its main weapon, the bamboo staff. Training begins with footwork patterns before progressing to stances and subsequently fighting techniques. Aside from its namesake, silambam includes a variety of weapons such as the sword, twin sticks, double deer horns, whip, sword, shield and sword, dagger, flexible sword and sickle. Unarmed silambam (\"kai silambam\") is based on animal movements such as the snake, eagle, tiger and elephant. Other Martial Arts of Tamil Nadu are Varma Kalai, Kalari payattu, Adi Thadi, Malyutham AND Gusthi (Boxing form of Tamil Nadu, not to be confused with North Indian Kushti which is a Wrestling art.)\nIndian martial arts have influenced martial arts of numerous nations, specially in East Asia and South East Asia that have historically been part of Greater India and Indosphere. There Indian martial arts often travelled to other nations with the spread of Hinduism and Buddhism. Those martial arts influenced by the Indian martial arts include\nAngampora, Ankam, Bokator, Eskrima, Krabi krabong, Kbachkun Dambong-Veng, Khmer traditional wrestling, Pencak Silat, Silambam, Silat, Thaing (Burmese), Võ thuật Bình Định, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6944187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6944187", "title": "Information for Social Change", "text": "Information for Social Change\n\nInformation for Social Change (ISC) is an international, volunteer-based association, whose primary mission is to debate and comment on issues of social justice, censorship, freedom and ethics in the library and information field. Information for Social Change can be described as an activist organization of library and information professionals . An important aspect of the mission is for members to debate and challenge dominant paradigms or perspectives in the library and information sector. The scope of Information for Social Change is not, however, limited to the traditional library sector, but encompasses a broad spectrum of issues impacting access to information, information literacy and the wider role of information users in society. Information for Social Change supports conferences and collaborates with a range of literacy activists groups. ISC self-publishes their scholarly journal, ISC journal which is published online. Their webpage is (http://www.libr.org/ and the international standard serial number for the ISC journal is: (print) | (online). Information for Social Change is part of the Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ) and is partnered with Libr.org.\n\n (print) | (online)\n\nThis page cited from ISC Web site and ISC Policies.\n\n"}
{"id": "55149055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55149055", "title": "Kerameikos steles", "text": "Kerameikos steles\n\nThe Kerameikos steles are a collection of sculptures used as grave-markers (steles, sing. stele) in the Kerameikos necropolis of Attica. Kerameikos is located outside the Themistoclean Wall's Dipylon Gate. Stelai come in various shapes/designs and depict images varying from pottery to narrative scenes. They were often marble or limestone, and were carved or sculpted to depict the person being memorialized sometimes with relatives or slaves. Reliefs decorating the graves were meant to show the dead in their best light, using imagery to recognize their bravery in battle, or pathos, or wealth. These monuments marked the graves of Athenian men, fallen warriors, as well as non-citizens. Women were also included in Kerameikos but typically it was the wealthiest or prominent women who were given stele. In many vase paintings of grave scenes wreaths are seen resting at the base of stele. This was likely a popular way to adorn the graves of Greek loved ones.\n\nThe first steles were dated from the Early Bronze Age, around 2000 B.C. The use of steles as grave markers gained popularity in Kerameikos around the Protogeometric period c.a. 950 B.C.E. until they fell out of style around the 8th century C.E. The site was first excavated in 1870 by German archaeologists looking for grave-goods. Many of the fragments and inscriptions found in the present came from the remnants of the Themistoclean Walls, which were built after the Persian Wars, using any and all stone available. Many graves and buildings had been destroyed so they were used as building material.\n\nAthenians used Kerameikos for centuries to bury their dead. Over time different styles were introduced so there is a great variety of graves that came from Kerameikos. Notable styles found in Kerameikos include the naiskos stele, lekythos graves, and kore.\n\nGraves were inscribed with the name of the deceased and where they came from.\n\nSome steles at Kerameikos used a style known as naiskos (\"small temple\"), which looks like a temple with columns and a pediment at the top. This particular symbol of wealth gained popularity in the 5th century B.C. examples include the Grave Stele of Dexileos and the Grave Stele of Hegeso.\n\nAfter the Battle of Chairon and Thibrachos, Lacedaemonian soldiers of King Pausanias' army were buried at Kerameikos. The tomb was found marked by a marble plinth with Lacedaemonian inscriptions of the names of the men.\n\nThe Grave Stele of Hegeso is one of the best-preserved surviving attic stele and features a woman seated by her servant. This grave is a naiskos, meaning Hegeso was likely a prominent woman as this style signified wealth and importance.\n\nToday the Kerameikos grave monuments can be found at the Kerameikos Archaeological Museum where many of them are preserved and kept on display.\n"}
{"id": "39261686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39261686", "title": "Kuba masquerade", "text": "Kuba masquerade\n\nThe Bushong Kuba are responsible for some of the most beautiful and sophisticated masquerade or dance traditions in Africa. \n\nOrigin stories for some Kuba masking traditions describe how the mask's creators first encountered a \"ngesh\" in the forest and, after a period of disorientation, returns home to carve a likeness of the \"ngesh\". While \"ngesh\" are rarely represented by figurative sculpture, they are thought to be personified in masquerade figures, which are in turn empowered by these nature spirits. \n\nThe potential for masked performers to become aggressive is a fundamental part of Kuba masquerade,and it is a reflection of the influence of the unpredictable nature of \"ngesh\" on Kuba masked dancers. The association between ngesh and masquerade is also underscored by strict rules that forbid spectators from touching the masks or coming too close to a masked dancer.\n\nKuba initiation rites for boys and young men and associated masquerade figures are related to \"mukanda\" initiation rites, practiced by many peoples residing in the southern savanna of Central Africa from Angola, through the Democratic Republic of Congo and into western (london]], including Chokwe, Lwena, Luvale, Lwembe, Chesterfield, Mbunda, Mbwela, Yaka, Suku, Pende, and southern Lunda.\n\nThere are two forms of initiation that occur in the Kuba region. One form, called \"babande\", is practiced in many Ngeende, Ngongo, Mbeengi, Bokila, Shoowa and Bushoong villages in the central and northern Kuba region. Babanede initiation rites take place within the village proper, and sometimes within the walled compound of the village chief. By contrast, southern initiation practices must take place outside the community in a secret forest location. Southern Kuba initiation rites are called \"buadi\" in Northern Kete villages and \"nkaan\" in Southern Bushoong villages. Both of these words translate to \"secret,\" underscoring the unseen dimension of the rite.\n\nInitiation rituals at the Kuba capital of Nshern were suspended during the late nineteenth century and were not reinstated. Due in part to the absence of these rituals, discussions of Kuba masking traditions at Nsheng has centered on three masking traditions described as royal- \"Mwaash aMbooy mu shall\", \"Bwoom\" and \"Ngady mwaash\". These are interpreted as representing the king, the commoner and the wife of Mwaash aMbooy respectively. \n\nThere are more than twenty different types of masks that function within the men's initiation society. \"Mwaash aMbooy mu shall\" is one of the three most important and represents Woot, the founding hero from whom the Kuba believe themselves to be descended. \"Mwaash aMbooy mu shall\" masks are worn by the nyimi, or king, of the Kuba or by chiefs in villages. The nyimi's mask is usually made of leopard skin, while those of chiefs are made of antelope skin.\n\nOne of the principal Kuba dance masks is called \"pwoom itok\". The chief identifying characteristic is the shape of the eyes, whose centers are cones surrounded by holes through which the wearer sees. Like many Kuba types of masks, \"pwoom itok\" is extensively polychromed, or multicolored.\n"}
{"id": "286365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286365", "title": "List of official languages by institution", "text": "List of official languages by institution\n\nThis is a list of official languages for significant regional and international institutions. Different organisations sometimes refer to their principal languages of administration and communication as \"working languages\", whilst others refer to these as being \"official\". No distinction is made here, except where an organization itself, distinguishes between its official and working languages.\n\nMost active institutions mentioned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6430677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6430677", "title": "Look at the Harlequins!", "text": "Look at the Harlequins!\n\nLook at the Harlequins! is a novel written by Vladimir Nabokov, first published in 1974. The work was Nabokov's final published novel before his death in 1977.\n\n\"Look At the Harlequins!\" is a fictional autobiography narrated by Vadim Vadimovich N. (VV), a Russian-American writer with uncanny biographical likenesses to the novel's author, Vladimir (Vladimirovich) Nabokov.\nVV is born in pre-revolutionary St. Petersburg and raised by his aunt, who advises him to \"look at the harlequins\" \"Play! Invent the world! Invent reality!\". After the revolution, VV moves to Western Europe. Count Nikifor Nikodimovich Starov becomes his patron (is he VV's father?). VV meets Iris Black who becomes his first wife. After her death—she is killed by a Russian émigré—he marries Annette (Anna Ivanovna Blagovo), his long-necked typist. They have a daughter, Isabel, and emigrate to the United States. The marriage fails; and, after Annette's death, VV takes care of the pubescent Isabel, now known as Bel. They travel from motel to motel. To counter ugly rumors, VV marries Louise Adamson while Bel elopes with an American to Soviet Russia. After the third marriage fails, VV marries again, a Bel lookalike (same birthdate, too), referred to as \"you\", his final love.\n\nVV is an unreliable narrator who gives conflicting information (e.g., on the death of his father) and seems to suffer from some psychological affliction. When making a full turn while walking—mentally, that is—and tracing his steps back, he is unable to execute the reversion of the surrounding vista in his imagination. He also has the notion that he is a double of another Nabokovian persona.\n\nLiterary criticism has weighed in on both sides of this debate, some even claiming that Vadim is both a parody \"and\" a double or Doppelgänger of Nabokov. For example, Nabokov’s \"Lolita\" is acted out by the narrator of \"Look at the Harlequins!\" through his fondling of the nymphet, Dolly von Borg. The attribution of a string of wives to the narrator may be understood in the context of Nabokov's strictly monogamous life. After the publication of \"Lolita\" the wider public and many critics thought that its author must be a \"sexual daredevil\". With the serial polygamy related in \"Look At The Harlequins!\", Nabokov can be seen to be poking fun at these perceptions. V.V.'s final wife is simply addressed as \"You\", which parallels Nabokov’s addressing his wife, Véra, simply as \"you\" in his autobiography \"Speak, Memory\". The fact that the final object of V.V.'s love is a perfect image of V.V.'s daughter, \"Bel,\" parallels the search by Humbert Humbert, the main character of \"Lolita\", for a girl-child just like \"Anna\"bel\"\", his first love when he himself was aged 12.\n\nIf V.V. is afflicted by feelings of being the double of another Nabokovian persona, this is because he bears in fact significant resemblances to the main character of the novel \"The Real Life of Sebastian Knight\" from 1941.\n\nHerbert Grabes is among the critics who believe that Vadim is Nabokov’s “parodic double” (151). Pekka Tammi agrees: “any fictive [narrator] can be, even at best, only a ‘parody’ of the artist who is responsible for the ultimate fiction” (289). Lucy Maddox calls \"Look at the Harlequins!\" “an oblique, satiric self-portrait” (144). In \"Speak, Memory\", Nabokov had written that much of his own life had appeared in his fictional works in the past, and that he felt as though he had lost these memories as they were crystallized into text, abstracted into fictions. His thoughts on the inevitably autobiographical nature of fiction seem to manifest, playfully, here. \n\nOne popular explanation for Vadim’s personal and literary similarity to Nabokov is that Vadim is a parody of bungled biographical renderings of the author. The composition of \"Look at the Harlequins!\" followed on the heels of Andrew Field’s biography \"Nabokov: His Life in Part\", a biography that eventually resulted in the termination of Nabokov’s relations with Field and in the novelist’s failed attempt at legal suppression of the biography. Nabokov felt that Field had created a character named Vladimir Nabokov in his biography—a character whom the real author could not recognize (Johnson, 330). Nabokov “had already perfected the role of his own biographer—in a series of mock biographies that began with a game he invented in adolescence, and that continued in his memoir \"Speak, Memory\" (1966) and his fiction. The encounter with Field, his first real-life biographer, produced. . .[the] parodic text. . .\"Look at the Harlequins!\" (1974). . .” (Sweeney 295-6).\n\nThe book begins with a list of \"Other Books by the Narrator\" (that is, Vadim rather than Vladimir Nabokov). Many (if not all) of these titles appear to be doppelgangers of Nabokov’s real novels.\n\n\n\"Look at the Harlequins!\" was heavily influenced by Nabokov's reading of Martin Gardner's book \"The Ambidextrous Universe\".\n\n"}
{"id": "98569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=98569", "title": "Lugbara mythology", "text": "Lugbara mythology\n\nThe Lugbara live in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda. In Lugbara mythology, Adroa appeared in both good and evil aspects; he was the creator god and appeared on Earth as a man who was near death. He was depicted as a very tall white man with only one half of a body, missing one eye, one leg, etc. His children were called the Adroanzi.\n\nThe Adroanzi were nature gods of specific rivers, trees and other sacred wild areas. At night, they followed people and protected them from animals and bandits as long as they did not look over their shoulder to ensure that an Adroanzi was following; if the person did so, the Adroanzi killed them. The people they killed, they ate. They were also sometimes known as water snakes. Some Africans consider them gardeners.\n\nGod created Gborogboro (‘the person coming from the sky’) and a woman named Meme (‘the person who came alone’). Meme bore a boy and girl who in turn produced a male and female pair. The names and number of generations vary according to various myths. Some myths say the siblings did not have intercourse but women gave birth after goat’s blood was poured on their legs to symbolize menstruation. Lugbara believe conception occurs three to four days after menstruation. However, all versions state that bridewealth was not given. All this took place at a place called Loloi by Lugbara, somewhere in Southern Sudan.\n\nThe last pair of siblings produced the two hero-ancestors, Jaki and Dribidu (‘the hairy one’) who came to the present land of Lugbara and begot many sons (founders of the current clans). Both heroes could perform supernatural and magical feats. Jaki died on Mount Liru while Dribidu died on Mount Eti (Wati) in Terego where he had settled. His other name was Banyale (‘Eater of men’) because he ate his children until he was discovered and driven away from his earlier home in the East bank of the Nile. He enjoyed the human liver a lot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7417685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7417685", "title": "Maio Creole", "text": "Maio Creole\n\nMaio Creole is the name given to the variant of Cape Verdean Creole spoken mainly in the Maio Island of Cape Verde. It belongs to the Sotavento Creoles branch. It numbers the entire island population which includes a small part which also speaks Portuguese, in 2005, the percentage was 1.36%.\n\nIt is the eight and one of the least spoken Cape Verdean Creole and is after Brava and ahead of Boa Vista.\n\nBesides the main characteristics of Sotavento Creoles the Maio Creole has also the following ones:\n"}
{"id": "487110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=487110", "title": "Molson Prize", "text": "Molson Prize\n\nThe Thomas Henry Pentland Molson Prize for the Arts is awarded by The Canada Council for the Arts. Two prizes are awarded annually to distinguished individuals. One prize is awarded in the arts, one in the social sciences and humanities. The prizes are $50,000 each, and intended to encourage continuing contribution to the cultural and intellectual heritage of Canada.\n\nFunded by an endowment from the Molson Foundation, the prizes are administered by the Canada Council for the Arts in cooperation with the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada. Laureates are chosen by a peer assessment committee appointed jointly by the Canada Council and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada.\n\nCandidates must be Canadian citizens or permanent residents of Canada. To be nominated, candidates must have made a substantial and distinguished contribution over a significant period of time. In the words of the deed of gift, the prizes are intended \"to encourage Canadians of outstanding achievement in the fields of the Arts, the Humanities or the Social Sciences to make further contribution to the cultural or intellectual heritage of Canada\". The terms of reference are interpreted as follows:\n\nIn other words, the prize is not intended as an \"end of service\" reward or as recognition for one great accomplishment. Past assessment committees have been quite consistent in choosing laureates who are close to the top of an outstanding career. Corporations and other organizations are excluded from consideration, as are posthumous awards. No individual may be awarded the prize more than once. The prizes are accessible to qualified persons from Aboriginal Peoples and diverse cultural and regional communities. Members of the board of the Canada Council for the Arts and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council are not eligible to be considered for this prize during the course of their terms as members nor for six months following the end of their term.\n\nCandidates may not apply for the Canada Council for the Arts Molson Prizes on their own behalf. They must be nominated by three individuals or three organizations, or a combination of individuals and organizations. Nominations are sought from persons and organizations that have the interest and capacity to nominate appropriate individuals. Nominators may submit one letter signed by the three nominating individuals or organizations, or submit three separate letters of nomination. Nominators are responsible for gathering and providing relevant documentation to the Canada Council.\n\nThe two laureates are chosen by a single, multidisciplinary peer assessment committee co-chaired by the Chairman of the Canada Council for the Arts and the President of the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada. Members are chosen to ensure fair representation of gender, the two official languages, the various regions and cultures of Canada, and the various types of artistic and scholarly disciplines. Committee members are among the most accomplished individuals in their respective fields and, ideally, have interests that extend beyond the confines of a single discipline.\n\n"}
{"id": "53330137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53330137", "title": "Motoko Katakura", "text": "Motoko Katakura\n\nBorn in Nara Prefecture in Japan, she moved to Kanagawa Prefecture and finished high school in 1956. She was admitted to Tsuda College, English Language major, and studied abroad during her senior year to graduate in 1962. She took Master of Letters, in 1968 at the Chuo University Graduate School, and researched at Columbia University between 1971 and '72 as a Visiting Research Fellow.\n\nKatakura's main field of study was focused on the Islamic world including bedouin, and multicultural studies. In late 1960s she visited bedouin camps in Saudi Arabia for her first field research in Islamic culture, while the Katakuras lived there.\nAbdur-Rahim Al Aḥmadī was the best supporter for Katakura's field work in Saudi Arabia since the early stage of her research in late 1960s. He witnessed that Katakura went into the nomad society of Wadi Fatima (western Saudi Arabia) and lived among those people for a period, and she visited them several times over the years. Katakura proceeded on-site research while winning the trust and affection of those people, observing the cultural heritage of their society.\nWorking as a lecturer at her alma mater Tsuda College between 1973 and '74, she obtained PhD. of Geology at Graduate School of University of Tokyo, faculty of Science in 1974. Promoted as an associate professor, she continued working at Tsuda College, and her hard work and tenacity on research and field work was rewarded when she published the survey results in her first book under the title of \"Bedouin Village\" in 1977.\nShe appreciated the contribution and support Abdur-Rahim Al Ahmadi had offered her, and asked him writing the preface to the Arabic version of that title.\n\nWith thorough academic papers followed the first book, she proofed that scientific values and her challenges in cultural anthropology was confirmed. Katakura started to extend the basis of her research during and after her tenure as a lecturer at University of Tokyo between 1975 and 1977, that Katakura gave lectures at International Christian University for the term of 1975/76 and 1977/78. Her teaching career extended at Tsuda College in 1978 to 1981. At the National Ethnographic Museum in Osaka she researched the Islamic world and multicultural studies including bedouin and desert culture in 1981 to 1993 at National Museum of Ethnology as a professor, where she became a professor emeritus in later years.\n\nFor multiculture studies, she actively researched abroad on many offers such as a Visiting Professor at University of British Columbia (1985 - 1986), a Visiting Research Fellow at Research Center for Arabian Literature (1987 - 1988). Coming back to Japan, she was a professor at the Graduate University for Advanced Studies (1989 - 1993). Kunio Katakura was appointed the Ambassador to Iraq and spent years over there during the early part of Gulf War. In Japan, in May 1990, the Japanese Association of Arid Land Studies was founded with Katakura as the first vice director.\nIt was in 1993 when Katakura professed at Chuo University at the Faculty of Policy Studies which started the same year, before she was nominated and became the director of the International Research Center for Japanese Studies in May 2005. The director of that Center had been succeeded from Takeshi Umehara to Hayao Kawai and Tetsuo Yamaori, all who were past professors at the Center, and Katakura filled her post as the first woman director without former tenure with them. Following her retirement in 2008, she became a professor emeritus at the Center.\n\nShe was married to Kunio Katakura and lived overseas as a wife of a diplomat. In the United States of America, they made acquaintance with Hisashi Owada who was also a diplomat, and she recalled many times that she and her husband met his daughter Masako, the future Crown Princess of Japan during those years. During the early part of the Gulf War, she was on her research in Japan, while her husband was appointed in Iraq.\n\nKatakura applied hiragana transcription when she got married and changed her family name to Katakura. A fortune teller advised Katakura that there were no problem to apply kanji to both her first and maiden name, or Motoko Shintani. However, the combination of both her first name and married name in kanji did not show good omen. Based on that advice, she transcribed her first name in kana rather than in kanji. On the first day at the National Museum of Ethnology as a professor, it was not quite comfortable for her to find her name inscribed in kanji only on the nameplate to her office, as she confessed in her essay.\n\nKatakura Motoko died on 23 February 2013 at the age of 75.\n\nTo honor Katakura Motoko's passion for her research, Motoko Katakura Foundation for Desert Culture was inaugurated on 7 November 2013, with her husband Katakura Kunio as the Councilor chairperson. It was a part of their aim to honor the desert culture which was yet to be popular in Japan, and they presented the first \"Yutorogi Prize\" to Mr and Mrs. Tadashi Nagahama of for their continued effort and dedication to desertification control activities in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, China, for over twenty years. The Nagahamas had met Katakura in 1990, and she had encouraged them over the years and left a will to include them as a recipient.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20817335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20817335", "title": "Musevisa", "text": "Musevisa\n\nMusevisa (\"The Mouse Song\") is a Norwegian Christmas song by singer-songwriter Alf Prøysen from 1946. Prøysen wrote the lyrics for the song in 1946, to a traditional tune. \"Musevisa\" is a secular song, where a family of anthropomorphic mice are preparing for Christmas. The mouse-mother specifically warns her children against the dangers of the mousetrap. In December 2008 the alleged rediscovery of a missing verse from the song attracted the attention of the Norwegian media. Though an alternative ending was originally written for the song, the discovery in question was eventually revealed to be a hoax.\n\nIn the late autumn of 1946, Prøysen (1914–1970), who had just left his job as a farm hand, received a commission from the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation (NRK) to write a Christmas song for children. Before presenting the song to the network, he met with his friend Arnljot Høyland near the Oslo railway station Vestbanen, to get his opinion on the song he had written. Prøysen said he was worried about the happy and sympathetic tone of the song, since the subject was mice, considered a pest. For this reason he had written an alternative ending to the lyrics. Høyland told him not to worry, correctly predicting that this would not be an issue. Prøysen presented the song in its original form, it was accepted and became an instant classic. Høyland never heard the alternative ending.\n\nIn December 2008, NRK-presenter Vidar Lønn-Arnesen claimed to have found the missing verse. In Lønn-Arnesen's version, it was children's program host \"Onkel\" Lauritz Johnson who had objected to the original verse, and asked Prøysen to write a new one. In the original version the mice were eaten by a cat, which Johnson found too disturbing for children's radio. The original verse had been thrown away, but a cleaning maid had picked it up. The woman had kept the piece of paper, but fifty years laternow living in Thailandshe sent it back to NRK. Then, in 2008, Lønn-Arnesen was editing a Christmas songbook, and decided to include the original verse and the story behind it.\n\nThe story attracted widespread attention in Norwegian newspapers, but not everybody was ready to accept it. Ove Røsbak, who had written a biography on Prøysen, had interviewed Høyland and others, and debunked Lønn-Arnesen's story as false. The song in its present version was in fact the original, according to Røsbak, and if another version existed this had to be a discarded early draft. Pointing out the poor literary quality as the reason why the extra verse had been abandoned, he still conceded that the verse was written by Prøysen: \"There is no doubt about that, but there's a reason why it ended up in the dustbin.\" Røsbak also took issue with the late Johnson being presented as a prude who censored controversial content. Lønn-Arnesen stuck to his version of the events, but insisted that he had never intended any disrespect to Johnson, who had been his colleague.\n\nOn 23 December 2008, former NRK-photographer Ivar Kalleberg revealed that it was in fact he who had written the missing verse, as a hoax. Kalleberg had used an old yellowed piece of paper, and copied Prøysen's handwriting from a letter he had once received from him. He then asked his neighbor if she would compose a letter, posing as the fictional retired cleaning lady. Kalleberg claimed to have used the Hitler Diaries as an inspiration for the hoax. To back up his claim, Kalleberg referred to an autobiography he had written in 2003, where he had reproduced the verse from memory, almost verbatim.\n\nRøsbak appreciated Kalleberg's hoax, though he commented that the episode did raise some issues about source criticism in the Norwegian publishing business. Lønn-Arnesen admitted that, although he didn't believe Kalleberg's story, if he had indeed been the victim of a practical joke, it was a good one. Kalleberg, meanwhile, was convinced that Prøysen would have appreciated the hoax had he been alive. The poet was once, in the 1950s, informed about an impostor who performed under his name. He reacted with a shrug and replied \"Perhaps he sings better than I do.\"\n\nThere is a Swedish version of the song - without the false verse - called \"Mössens julafton\" (\"Christmas Eve for the Mice\") written by Prøysen's long time co-operative partner, the popular Swedish composer and songwriter Ulf Peder Olrog. In Sweden, Olrog usually is known as the composer of the song's melody.\n\n"}
{"id": "2025660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2025660", "title": "Musical fountain", "text": "Musical fountain\n\nA musical fountain, also known as a dancing fountain, is a type of animated fountain for entertainment purposes that creates an aesthetic design (including three-dimensional images). This is achieved by employing the effects of timed sound waves and timed light (including laser) against water particles. The water refracts and reflects the light, and in doing so, three-dimensional images can be produced.\n\nInstallations can be large scale, employing hundreds of water jets and lights, and costing into the millions of dollars, or in smaller household forms, where a budget of one thousand dollars is feasible. Musical features tend to be complex, and require a degree of mechanical, hydraulic, electrical, and electronic components out of view that might be as impressive to its audience as the show itself.\n\nThe earliest musical fountains were played manually by a live operator, who usually controlled pumps or valves and sometimes lights by way of switches on a control panel. Music was almost always live. Later, choreography could be prerecorded on a punched paper card which was scanned by a computer; and even later, it could be recorded on magnetic tape or, in the most modern shows, on a CD along with the music. Even so, the choreography is still usually painstakingly programmed by hand, some types of shows being played live from a control console and connected to a computer that records the operator's actions for later automatic playback. Recent advances in technology provides for unattended automatic choreography that can rival manual programming.\n\nPéter Bodor was a Hungarian gadgeteer and mechanical engineer (born on June 22, 1788, died August 17, 1849) who built a musical or chiming fountain in the Transylvanian town of Marosvásárhely (now Târgu Mureş, Romania) between 1820 and 1822.\n\nHis fountain (see pictures here) had a round floor-plan, with two arched stairs on the sides, and a dome roof supported by pillars. The mechanical core was a hydraulic structure driven by the force of water that played popular chimes at every hour. There was a gilded Neptune (or Apollo) statue on the top, that turned round in 24 hours. The fountain was destroyed in 1836 by a snow storm, and was never restored. However, an almost identical copy was built in Budapest's Margit Island in 1936 that did not operate by hydraulic means, but used electricity instead. This latter was partly destroyed during the Second World War, but was restored in 1954 and again in 1997. Now it is a tourist attraction that plays music at every hour during the day.\n\nKřižík's light fountain was built by the Czech inventor and electrical engineer František Křižík in 1891 on the occasion of the World Exhibition in Prague. It became a unique European attraction. The fountain was rebuilt in the 1920s by architect Z. Stašek. The bottom of the fountain plate is equipped with 1300 multicolored reflectors and water circuits composed of more than two kilometers of pipes with almost 3000 nozzles. In June 2018, the fountain has interrupted its operation.\n\nPrismatic Fountain, Denver, Colorado - May 30, 1908\n\"Mayor Robert W. Speer and F.W. Darlington, an engineer with the Denver Interurban Railway, dedicate the new marvel in City Park Lake--The Prismatic Electric Fountain. The Fountain features electric lighting effects that have not been seen before by the public. Eleven columns of brightly coloured light stream through the dramatic changing patterns of water. High in the north tower of the City Park Pavilion, an operator sits at a roll top desk, moving levers to undulate the twelve sets of water features and make the columns of light change color to the sounds of the Denver Municipal Band.\"\n\nF.W. Darlington was a pioneer in electrical fountain control as well as water design. \n\"Darlington had several signature water feature elements in his fountain designs. The multiple spray rings with \"basket-weave\" nozzle placement is one that shows up in photographs of several fountains, including some not yet credited to Darlington. The \"fan\" effect, a complicated triple spray ring with multiple nozzle sizes and angles is yet another water effect seen in several \"Electric Fountains.\" \n\nPrismatic Fountain, New Orleans, Louisiana - 1915\n\nThe Darlington fountain in New Orleans' West End and was likely completed around 1915 or 1916 as the last date on the original drawings are from February 1915. The fountain served as an icon for the West End Park and surrounding yacht clubs and numerous restaurants that were located in the area.\n\nAll of Darlington’s fountains required an operator to change the water effects and lighting and were likely used in conjunction with music played by a band or orchestra for special events. It is unknown if the fountain was operated in a static mode when there were no performances or if it was shut off.\n\nRestoration of this fountain is planned by the Friends of West End in New Orleans.\n\nGarfield Park, Indianapolis, Indiana - 1916\n\nIn 1915, the new greenhouses and conservatory were built. The dedication of the Sunken Garden took place October 29, 1916. In 1916, Darlington was hired to design and build the fountains at the east end of the Sunken Garden. The fountains were the first in the country to be equipped with the mechanics that allowed the changing of the spray and displayed lights, according to the season and holiday. For Memorial Day, the fountain's lights were alight with red, white, and blue, and on other days, gold and white. Today, the fountains are still an attraction for visitors. This fountain was restored by The Fountain People in 1997 and with a musical control system by Atlantic Fountains in 2003.\n\nPool of Industry, 1939 New York World's Fair\n\nAn early notable example of a musical fountain choreographed live was the Pool of Industry at the 1939 New York World Fair, where three operators controlled the fountain, guided by a paper program that unscrolled under a glass window like the paper roll of a player piano - rather than controlling the effects directly like a piano roll, it was marked with commands that told the operators when to push the buttons and throw the switches. This fountain was more than just water and lights, however. Besides 3 million watts of lights and a gigantic pool containing 1,400 water nozzles, there were over 400 gas jets with a mechanism that caused colored flames and fireworks were shot from over 350 launchers, creating a nighttime spectacle on a grand scale. Music was played live by the fair's band and broadcast by large speakers to the areas surrounding the display. The updated show displayed at the same fairgrounds in 1964 lacked the colored flames but used punched cards for the choreography, had prerecorded music, and utilized the then-revolutionary system of dichroic light filtering (developed by Bausch and Lomb for the fountain) which now allowed a dark colored lens and a light colored lens to produce the same brightness of light. It was by this process that 700,000 watts of light produced over 3 megacandelas. This show also had single lights with multiple sliding color filters for mixing colors, and arrays of nozzles that could be adjusted, their direction changed by hydraulic or pneumatic actuators.\n\nThe Dancing Waters style of water show is a linear display of pumps and lights. In the United States, similar fountains are the Musical Waters. Musical Waters shows use the basic Dancing Waters mechanics. The fountains use single-speed pumps and do not offer variable water heights, and the revolving nozzles are not present since the Dancing Waters design having been prone to jamming. Despite lacking the rotating nozzles that usually define this type of show, the Musical Waters shows are one of the few of this kind that still retain most of the simple elegance that defined Otto Przystawik's first fountains, including the visual attraction of the human element with live \"fountaineers\" controlling the effects. Otto Przystawik water shows went well beyond previous musical fountains. While previous fountain merely change scenes during a performance, Przystawik introduced moving water that that created the first true Dancing Fountains.\nOther United States based companies such as Waltzing Waters Inc, owned by Przystawik's family, WET (Water Entertainment Technologies), Fontana Fountains, Atlantic Fountains, Fountain People, Formosa Fountains, Hall Fountains, and Waterworks International have built fully computer controlled musical fountains since 1980. These include two to six meter wide systems available to the homeowner as well as large corporate, municipal and show fountains in excess of fifty meters in length—and in the case of WET's Fountains of Bellagio, in size. These include proportional, interactive and audio spectral control that bring musical fountains to a wide audience. Fountain shapes are not limited to linear layout stage shows but include geometric and freeform shapes as well. Moreover, latest technology allows the construction of Floating watershows. Fontana Fountains first introduced the use of Stainless Steel floaters allowing bigger water show applications even in coasts and lakes.\n\nManufacturers in the Near and Far East, in places such as India and Pakistan, also produce musical fountains. Many of them have updated the look with individually servomotor-controlled nozzles, large water screens on which video can be projected, and laser effects. Shows are built not only in the standard linear form, but in circular, semicircular and oblong shapes, in multiple pools, and many other layouts. In many places in India, a musical fountain is a must-have attraction for any city, and there will often be at least one local company ready to build them. Firms also rent shows.\n\nThe fountain are through in Underground Base, this fountain are compeleted in June 2010, then make the fountains used for event.\n\nBuilt for the Century 21 Exposition in Seattle in 1962, the International Fountain's original design had changing water and light patterns, with a background of classical music (though the patterns weren't specifically intended to be synched with the music.) The fountain was very large, designed as a concrete bowl around a 'moonscape' of broken limestone, at the center of which was a tiled dome studded with pointy black nozzles. The fountain was not originally designed for interaction but was redesigned in 1995 by WET to make the fountain more inviting, interactive and safe. Switching out the multicolored lights for white, WET added fog nozzles, a ring of their Shooters set into the pavers around the base of the dome, and four large SuperShooters hidden in the upper surface of the dome. The restored fountains behaves as its predecessor did for most of the day, producing changing water patterns as music plays, but it now marks each hour by bringing out other effects, like fog, and performs a choreographed show.\n\nIndia’s most spectacular musical fountain – the CESC Fountain of Joy – was inaugurated in Kolkata, India on 16 October 2012. \nAccording to Sanjiv Goenka, Chairman, RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group, “The CESC Fountain of Joy is a small gift from the Power Company which has been serving consumers in this area since 1899.” Goenka recalled, “During the Calcutta-300 Celebrations, Mr. R P Goenka, Chairman, CESC, decided to gift a musical fountain to the city which was inaugurated in the Maidan in 1991. He added \" The new fountain will once again be a major attraction and rejuvenate the evenings for both Kolkatans and tourists. The CESC Fountain of Joy which was inaugurated at the same site just before the Durga Pujas, is far more spectacular both in terms of technology and visual effect.”\n\nThis musical fountain is unique and has 150 channels available for water and light effects – old fountain had 20 channels for water. The concept of three-tier fountain pool, with musical fountain in the upper pool surrounded by architectural and dynamic fountains in the intermediate and lower pools, is quite unique in this subcontinent.\n\nThe CESC Fountain of Joy has a centre-fed circular water screen of 6 metre height and 18 metre width. In the upper pool, the CESC Fountain of Joy will have 99 water effects, while the intermediate pool will have 20 water effects and another 30 special water effects in the lower pool. There will be a large water cascading area – more than 80 metre long from upper pool to the intermediate pool.\n\nThe CESC Fountain of Joy comes with an enormous number of lights as also LED and PAR lamps, as also high watt reflectors, capable of constantly changing the colours to make the fountain attractive and eye-catching.\n\nAccording to CESC sources, the Fountain of Joy is integrated with ultra-fast technology, in which water effects will be controlled by the pneumatically assisted solenoid valves, capable of opening and shutting 12 times in a second, thereby resulting in water shooting in air at a spectacular speed.\n\nAccording to Mr. Sanjiv Goenka, “The inspiration for creating the new CESC Fountain of Joy in the Maidan comes from Chief Minister, Smt Mamata Banerjee, who is so keen to turn Kolkata into a beautiful megapolis.”\n\nThe estimated cost is around Rs. 3 crore.\n\nWET (Water Entertainment Technologies) also designed the Fountains of Bellagio in Las Vegas, which are set in a man-made lake long with an area of . The fountain is formed as a pair of large concentric rings and a long, curved arc, and two smaller circles are attached to the arc near each end. Shooters outline all aspects of the layout, allowing for the arc and circles to rise as columns and curtains of water, as well as providing high-speed chase sequences. Re-engineered HyperShooters fire jets nearly into the air, and more recently added ExtremeShooters are capable of reaching heights of . Needing a better way to define smoother passages of music, WET engineers developed the Oarsman nozzle, a robotic water jet that can be moved 120 degrees from side to side, to front and back, grouped with a pod of lights that follow the water stream. With the direction, water height, and light of every Oarsman controllable independently from every other Oarsman, a nearly infinite variety of patterns can be created on the lake. A fog generating device rises from beneath the water to blanket the entire lake with fog, and about 4000 individually controllable underwater lights follow the water patterns' precise movements, sparkling on the water or glowing through the fog. Performing to everything from opera to classical to Broadway to pop, the Fountains of Bellagio run every day on the half-hour, and every quarter-hour during the evening. A team of dive-certified engineers is on-site at all times, maintaining the fountain's complex mechanical, electrical and hydraulic systems.\n\nDespite the scale of such shows as the Fountains of Bellagio, these shows must still be programmed and choreographed by hand. Computers aid the process, but engineers must still spend weeks or months on each new performance before it is ready to be placed in rotation with the other shows.\n\nBranson Landing located in Branson, Missouri features a picturesque boardwalk along the Taneycomo Lakefront. The Landing's center attraction is the Town Square, which is home to a $7.5 million choreographed water attraction designed by WET. The fountains at Branson Landing include dancing and blasting water shooters, blasting water up to in the air, fire, light and music.\n\nOne other notable fountain of the choreographed type is the Grand Haven Musical Fountain in Grand Haven, Michigan. Built in 1962 by volunteers and designed by a local engineer, this fountain was based on a Przystawic show seen in Germany and was the largest musical fountain in the world when it was built. The display comprises a small number of water formations grouped in odd and even segments, with the same formations on each. Augmented by curtains of water at the back and front, a large fanlike array called the Peacock, and three fire hose nozzles - one placed vertically in the center, and the others aimed at an angle from each end - the show produces a simple Dancing Waters style display. Colored lights are arrayed along the front of the fountain in individually controllable groups in red, blue, amber and white, and the back curtain and Peacock sprays have their own lights - green and yellow for the back curtain, and two sets each red, blue and amber for the Peacock. In addition, nozzles called \"sweeps\" provide the moving effects, swaying side-to-side. A patented drive mechanism allows each pair of sweeps to follow or oppose each other in direction of movement, to move along long or short paths, and to move at any of three speeds, allowing the moving water to follow nearly any kind of music. The original show used punched paper cards, though computers control the new system. The nozzles and pumps have never been changed, only cleaned and cared-for; and shows must still be programmed by hand. Even with the simplest of the many programs used to create shows for this fountain, choreographing one three-minute song can take anywhere from two to four hours. The Grand Haven Musical Fountain still performs nightly, and is viewable from a grandstand on the waterfront in Grand Haven.\n\nMultimedia Fountain Kangwon Land was opened in August 2007. It is considered Asia’s largest musical fountain. Multimedia system consists of 180 m water fountains, water screen, video, light, 12 multi-coloured fire units, and laser. The Magical Box multimedia show consists of the big cube system and the fountain. In combination with the fountain during daylight hours the box appears mirrored, but at night it is illuminated to reveal its interior. At night a globe can be seen, some 20 meters in diameter. The special lighting effects give the impression that the globe is rotating and displays the five continents of the world.\n\nInside the globe is the \"Dome Cinema\". The \"Dome Cinema\" has a diameter of 18 meters and is used as the projection area. Video images from TV, DVD, or VHS sources are projected directly into the dome. These images fill almost two thirds of the space. As a result of the various depths of the room, a new laser video system is used to ensure that the images are not distorted. Outside the \"Miracle World Box\" is the largest fully automatic screen (24 m x 24 m) in the world! Lighting effects, laser projections and synchronized choreographies ensure a unique and unforgettable experience. All of the technology used in and around the \"Miracle World Box\" was designed, developed and installed by Emotion Media Factory.\n\nThe largest musical fountain project in the world is the Dubai Fountain. It spans on a 30-acre manmade Burj Khalifa Lake. Designed by WET Design, the California-based company responsible for the fountains at the Bellagio Hotel Lake in Las Vegas. It includes 6,600 lights, 25 colored projectors, fog, and fire. It is 275 m (902 ft) long and shoots water 150 m (490 ft) into the air (equivalent to a 50-story building), accompanied by a range of classical to contemporary Arabic and world music. It was built at a cost of 218 million Dollars. The fountain was formally opened by Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum on May 8, 2009, along with the Dubai Mall. Situated in front of the Burj Khalifa, it is best viewed by the public from the Souk al Bahar or The Dubai Mall.\n\nWorld of Color is a new nighttime show at Disney California Adventure Park, part of the Disneyland Resort in Anaheim, California. The entire show cost $75,000,000 USD to design, manufacture and build. The process of assembling, installing, and testing the show's numerous components and equipment in Paradise Bay spanned a period of approximately 15 months. It premiered on Friday June 11, 2010 as part of \"Summer Nightastic!\". Conceived by VP Parades and Spectaculars, Steve Davison and designed by Walt Disney Creative Entertainment, the show has more than 1,200 fountains and includes lights, water, fire, fog, and lasers, with high-definition projections on mist screens.\n\nDisney Dreams! is the new show at Disneyland Paris, based on Peter Pan's shadow story. It includes HD projections onto the castle, with pyrotechnics, synchronized fireworks ; water screens and fountains were provided by the French company Aquatique Show International.\nThe project took 18 months to be entirely built, including tests and changes, and cost €10,000,000 (~$13,000,000). It has been a daily show since April 2012, and modifications were added for the first anniversary: two new scenes from The Lion King and Brave. From November 10, 2013 to January 6, 2014 a new show remplaces it: Disney Dreams! of Christmas.\n\nLocated indoors in Nashville, Tennessee under a glass dome at the Gaylord Opryland Resort & Convention Center, this musical fountain features an 85-foot high center geyser surrounded by 68 vertical and 28 arching jets, each with its own RGB LED fixture, plus a fog system and 5 articulating color theatrical lights from above. The sophisticated system was designed by water feature specialists Aquatic Creations, Inc., and plays original music shows choreographed by H2Oarts.com, both of California. The Delta fountain is on a deck rather than in a basin, so it is possible to experience close enough to get lightly misted.\n\nThe Blackpool fountains, created by French company Aquatique Show International, are located at a well known theme park Blackpool Pleasure beach UK. The fountains dance every 30 minutes to a wide range of music. They opened in 2009 letting people run through them. In 2010 they stopped peopled going in them due to health and safety so now they have security guards when the show is on round the fountain. The fountain has 25 jets which can shoot up to 100 ft.\n\nMultimedia fountain Roshen is located in Vinnytsia, a city in west-central Ukraine, located on the banks of the Southern Buh. Built in 2011 it is considered as one of the largest floating fountains in Europe. It is the major multimedia attraction in the city.\n\nThe multimedia shows are combining water effects (fountain), music, lasers and 3D projection on the water screen. For the fountain shows the super powerful LED lights are used allowing applying very bright and showy backlighting resulting in various picturesque effects. Despite other fountains in Ukraine, Roshen multimedia fountain has moving particles reaching verticity due to which the water spring angle is changing dynamically. The sound power of the audio system is 3840 Watt. The height of the central spring reaches 65–70 metres, the projection screen dimension is around 16 metres height and 45 metres width, and the frontal water dispersion constitutes 140 metres. The project design and development was performed by Emotion Media Factory.\n\nOpened in May 2012, Aquanura boasts being the largest water fountain show in Europa and the third largest in the world. It was built on a lagoon near the main entrance of the Efteling, one of Europe's oldest and largest theme parks. Aquanura means \"water frogs\" and tells the story of The Frog Prince by the Brothers Grimm in a spectacle of water, music, lights and fire. The water fountain was designed and built by WET and features over 200 brightly colored fountains that come to live in a 12-minute-show each day. The show premiered for the 60th anniversary of the theme park and can be seen daily. It is included in the entrance price to the Efteling, however during the summer, separate tickets are sold just to be able to see Aquanura.\n\nBefore Aquanura opened, the Efteling had an indoor musical fountain ('waterorgan'). It used to be hand-operated, with pedals and levers, but was later automated. When it opened in 1966, it had live music, but as of 1979, a recording was used. The waterorgan was put out of operation in August 2010, its venue being reused as a studio for a children's television program. It is not clear whether the installation has only been covered up temporarily, or if it has been permanently removed.\n\nWhile all pre-programmed musical fountain shows involve computerized show control systems, the use of computer technology to spontaneously \"self-choreograph\" a fountain to random musical input is novel. Possibly the most sophisticated full-scale implementations in use are at the Miracle Mile Shops in Las Vegas, Washington Park (Cincinnati, Ohio), and Washington Harbour in the District of Columbia, using a system developed by H2Oarts.com. Unlike conventional musical fountains, which must be manually pre-programmed moment-to-moment, the H2Oarts' Musical Water Feature Automation System uses the venue's own live background music to animate the water and lights in real time. Beyond basic light organ-style responses to loudness, bass, and treble, H2Oarts employs rhythm, dynamic range, transient (acoustics), and other subtler components of music to control water and light.\n\n"}
{"id": "3711039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3711039", "title": "Pillbox hat", "text": "Pillbox hat\n\nA pillbox hat is a small hat, usually worn by women, with a flat crown, straight, upright sides, and no brim. It is named after the small cylindrical or hexagonal cases that pills used to be sold in.\n\nHistorically, the precursor to the pillbox hat was military headgear. During the late Roman Empire, the \"pileus pannonicus\" or \"Pannonian cap\" – headgear similar to the modern pillbox hat – was worn by Roman soldiers. A similar hat was popular with the Flemish in the Middle Ages. In some countries, especially those of the Commonwealth of Nations, a pillbox-like forage cap, often with a chin strap, can still be seen on ceremonial occasions. The Royal Military College of Canada dress uniform includes such a hat, and similar caps were standard issue for the Victorian era British Army. Another cap called a kilmarnock is a modern version of the traditional headdress worn by members of virtually all Gurkha regiments.\n\nThe modern woman's pillbox hat was invented by milliners in the 1930s, and gained popularity due to its elegant simplicity. Pillbox hats were made out of wool, velvet, organdy, mink, lynx or fox fur, and leopard skin, among many other materials. They were generally designed in solid colors and were unaccessorized, but could include a veil.\n\nJacqueline Kennedy, First Lady of the United States from 1961 to 1963, was well known for her \"signature pillbox hats\", designed for her by Halston, and was wearing a pink one to match her outfit on the day of her husband President John F. Kennedy's assassination in Dallas, Texas.\n\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "51438827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51438827", "title": "Reductress", "text": "Reductress\n\nReductress is an American feminist satire website that parodies articles found in media targeted towards women, especially women's magazines. Founded in 2013 by comedians Beth Newell and Sarah Pappalardo, the site has received praise from reviewers for its satirical pieces including advice columns, news stories, and listicles.\n\nBeth Newell began taking classes and performing at Upright Citizens Brigade (UCB) in 2005, later teaching at New York's Magnet Theater. Sarah Pappalardo was a comedy performer and writer while attending college in Chicago and worked as a freelance writer. The two founded \"Reductress\" in April 2013 after a conversation between Newell and Pappalardo about tropes they observed in popular media targeted towards women. By August 2016, the site reached 1.7 million monthly global visits, with a record monthly readership of 2.4 million hits in November 2014. In 2016, in response to a comedian being banned from UCB after being accused of rape and sexual assault by multiple women, \"Reductress\" dedicated its entire landing page to stories satirizing the tactics of rapists and rape culture. The website has an office in the Flatiron District of Manhattan, New York.\n\nIn October 2016, \"Reductress\" released a book, \"How To Win At Feminism: The Definitive Guide To Having It All—And Then Some!\" Written by Newell, Pappalardo, and Anna Drezen, the book was published by HarperOne.\n\n\"Reductress\" is a feminist news satire site. Conceived as a parody of women's magazines and the clickbait headlines they often employ, the site gradually expanded its focus to satirizing the ways women's media attempt to capitalize on feminism while still espousing values \"that make [women] feel inadequate.\" The site has also parodied aspects of feminism, such as white feminism or feminism that lacks awareness of privilege.\n\n\"Reductress\" publishes satirical advice columns, news stories, confessionals, listicles, and profiles, paired with a stock photo. The style of its articles has been compared to that of \"The Onion\". Newell and Pappalardo have expressed interest in creating more video content for the site.\n\nGaby Dunn of \"The Daily Dot\" described \"Reductress\" as \"not only biting, 'goes-there' hilarious, [but] a fantastic, sad, and much-needed look at the way the media talks down to women\". Writing for \"The Guardian\", Morwenna Ferrier said that the site's \"headlines are cutting, but the comedy is sometimes subtle enough to dupe readers\", citing the headline \"We're Piercing My Baby's Tongue\" as an example. Brian Raftery opined in \"Wired\" that \"Reductress\" \"quickly became one of the funniest and most focused humor outlets on the web\" with articles like \"Actually, I'm an Intersectional Men's Rights Activist\" and \"How To Friendzone Ethan While He's Still Inside You\". Particular praise was levied for \"Reductress\" August 2016 series of articles regarding rape which were viewed as a powerful reaction to a national pattern of sexual violence and a strong example of the power of humor to \"confront even the most seemingly unseemly topics, so long as it's done with honesty, empathy, and a shit-ton of sagacious fury.\"\n"}
{"id": "25918153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25918153", "title": "Roseanna's Grave", "text": "Roseanna's Grave\n\nRoseanna's Grave (also known as For Roseanna) is a 1997 American romantic dramedy film directed by Paul Weiland. In his review, Roger Ebert concludes that \"Roseanna's Grave\" \"isn't of much consequence, perhaps, and the gears of the plot are occasionally visible as they turn. But it's a small, sweet film that never tries for more than it's sure of, and the actors find it such a relief to be playing such goodhearted characters that we can almost feel it.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "196510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196510", "title": "Sequel", "text": "Sequel\n\nA sequel is a literature, film, theatre, television, music or video game that continues the story of, or expands upon, some earlier work. In the common context of a narrative work of fiction, a sequel portrays events set in the same fictional universe as an earlier work, usually chronologically following the events of that work.\n\nIn many cases, the sequel continues elements of the original story, often with the same characters and settings. A sequel can lead to a series, in which key elements appear repeatedly. Although the difference between more than one sequel and a series is somewhat arbitrary, it is clear that some media franchises have enough sequels to become a series, whether originally planned as such or not.\n\nSequels are attractive to creators and to publishers because there is less risk involved in returning to a story with known popularity rather than developing new and untested characters and settings. Audiences are sometimes eager for more stories about popular characters or settings, making the production of sequels financially appealing.\n\nIn movies, sequels are common. There are many name formats for sequels. Sometimes, they either have unrelated titles or have a letter added on the end. More commonly, they have numbers at the end or have an added word on the end. It is also common for a sequel to have a variation of the original title or have a subtitle. In the 1930s, many musical sequels had the year included in the title. Sometimes sequels are released with different titles in different countries, because of the perceived brand recognition. There are several ways that subsequent works can be related to the chronology of the original. Various neologisms have been coined to describe them.\n\nThe most common approach is for the events of the second work to directly follow the events of the first, either picking up dangling plot threads or introducing a new conflict to drive the events of a second story. This is often called a direct sequel. A legacy sequel is a work which follows the continuity of the original work or works but takes place longer in the future, often focusing on new characters but with the original ones still present. Legacy sequels are sometimes also direct sequels which ignore previous sequels in the cronology, sometimes even retconning preceding sequels to the original work. An example of this is \"Halloween\" (2018) which is a direct sequel to \"Halloween\" (1978). When a work is set in the same universe, yet has very little if any narrative connection to its predecessors and can be appreciated on its own without a thorough understanding of the backstory, then the work can be referred to as a standalone sequel. \"2 Fast 2 Furious\", \"\", \"\", \"Son of the Mask\", \"Cars 3\", and \"Toy Story 4\" are examples of stand-alone movie sequels.\n\nA sequel to the first sequel might be referred to as a \"third installment\" or threequel or second sequel.\n\nA sequel that portrays events prior those of the original work is called a prequel. Parallels or paraquels are stories that run at the same point in time within the universe of the story. Midquels refers to works which take place between evens, there are different types of \"midquels\". Such as interquels which are stories that take place in between two preceding stories and serve as a sequel to one and a prequel to another simultaneously. For example, if Movie C is an interquel of movies A and B, the events of movie C take place after the events of movie A but before the events of movie B. \"Rogue One\" of the Star Wars series is an \"interquel\" since it takes place between \"\" and \"\". Intraquels on the other hand are works which focus on events between the events of the same film. \"\" which taker place on the Christmas between the beginning and the end of the film \"Beauty and the Beast\" is often called a \"midquel\" but is more exactly an \"intraquel\".\n\nWhen a work is set in the same universe, yet has very little if any narrative connection to its predecessors and can be appreciated on its own without a thorough understanding of the backstory, then the work can be referred to as a standalone sequel. \"2 Fast 2 Furious\", \"\", \"\", \"Son of the Mask\", \"Cars 3\", and \"Toy Story 4\" are examples of stand-alone movie sequels.\n\nIn \"The Afterlife of a Character\", David Brewer describes a reader's desire to \"see more\", or to know what happens next in a narrative after it has ended. This capacity for expansive curiosity is certainly not restricted to a particular era in human history. Indeed, we can point to Homer's \"Odyssey\" as a sequel to the \"Iliad\" in the sense that it expands upon plot and character elements established in the first text. That both the \"Odyssey\" and the \"Iliad\" were written in the 8th century B.C.E. and are traditionally held to represent the first extant works of western literature lends credence to the ubiquity of sequels in literary history. The Judeo-Christian Bible is also a common referent in that sense; many of the works included in the Hebrew Scriptures can be classified as sequels in that they continue and expand on a very general narrative that is pre-established by previous books in the same collection. In addition, the development of an official canon allows for the distinction between official and unofficial sequels; in this context, apocrypha might be considered an early form of informal sequel literature. \nSequels, then, become an important facet of Western literature throughout history. The medieval genre of Romance, in particular, contains massive networks of prequel and sequel literature.\n\nThe origin of the sequel as we think of it in the 21st century developed from the novella and romance traditions in a slow process that culminated towards the end of the 17th century.\n\nThe substantial shift towards a rapidly growing print culture and the rise of the market system by the early 18th-century meant that an author's merit and livelihood became increasingly linked to the number of copies of a work he or she could sell. This shift from a text-based to an author-centered reading culture\nled to the \"professionalization\" of the author — that is, the development of a \"sense of identity based on a marketable skill and on supplying to a defined public a specialized service it was demanding\". In one sense, then, sequels became a means to profit further from previous work that had already obtained some measure of commercial success. As the establishment of a readership became increasingly important to the economic viability of authorship, sequels offered a means to establish a recurring economic outlet.\n\nIn addition to serving economic profit, the sequel was also used as a method to strengthen an author's claim to his literary property. With weak copyright laws and unscrupulous booksellers willing to sell whatever they could, in some cases the only way to prove ownership of a text was to produce another like it. Sequels in this sense are rather limited in scope, as the authors are focused on producing \"more of the same\" to defend their \"literary paternity\". As is true throughout history, sequels to novels provided an opportunity for authors to interact with a readership. This became especially important in the economy of the 18th century novel, in which authors often maintained readership by drawing readers back with the promise of more of what they liked from the original. With sequels, therefore, came the implicit division of readers by authors into the categories of \"desirable\" and \"undesirable\"—that is, those that interpret the text in a way unsanctioned by the author. Only after having achieved a significant reader base would an author feel free to alienate or ignore the \"undesirable\" readers.\n\nThis concept of \"undesirable\" readers extends to unofficial sequels with the 18th century novel. While in certain historical contexts unofficial sequels were actually the norm (for an example, see Arthurian literature), with the emphasis on the author function that arises in conjunction with the novel many authors began to see these kinds of unauthorized extensions as being in direct conflict with authorial authority. In the matter of \"Don Quixote\" (an early novel, perhaps better classified as a satirical romance), for example, Cervantes disapproved of Alonso Fernández de Avellaneda's use of his characters in \"Second Volume of the Ingenious Gentleman Don Quixote of La Mancha\", an unauthorized sequel. In response, Cervantes very firmly kills the protagonist at the end of the Second Part to discourage any more such creative liberties. Another example is Samuel Richardson, an 18th-century author who responded particularly strongly against the appropriation of his material by unauthorized third parties. Richardson was extremely vocal in his disapproval of the way the protagonist of his novel \"Pamela\" was repeatedly incorporated into unauthorized sequels featuring particularly lewd plots. The most famous of these is Henry Fielding's parody, entitled \"Shamela\".\n\nIn \"To Renew Their Former Acquaintance: Print, Gender, and Some Eighteenth Century Sequels\", Betty Schellenberg theorizes that whereas for male writers in the 18th century sequels often served as \"models of paternity and property\", for women writers these models were more likely to be seen as transgressive. Instead, the recurring readership created by sequels let female writers function within the model of \"familiar acquaintances reunited to enjoy the mutual pleasures of conversation\", and made their writing an \"activity within a private, non-economic sphere.\" Ironically, through this created perception women writers were able to break into the economic sphere and \"enhance their professional status\" through authorship.\n\nDissociated from the motives of profit and therefore unrestrained by the need for continuity felt by male writers, Schellenberg argues that female-authored sequel fiction tended to have a much broader scope. He says that women writers showed an \"innovative freedom\" that male writers rejected to \"protect their patrimony.\" For example, Sarah Fielding's \"Adventures of David Simple\" and its sequels \"Familiar Letters between the Principal Characters in David Simple\" and \"David Simple, Volume the Last\" are extremely innovative and cover almost the entire range of popular narrative styles of the 18th century.\n\nAs software-development costs have increased, sequels have become increasingly important for the video-game industry, as they provide a way to resell a product, reusing code and graphics.\n\nIn some cases, the characters or setting of an original film or video game become so valuable that they develop into a media franchise. Generally, a whole series of sequels is made, along with merchandising. Multiple sequels are often planned well in advance and actors and directors may sign extended contracts to ensure their participation. This can extend into a franchise's initial production's plot to provide story material to develop for sequels called sequel hooks. \n\nMovie sequels do not always do as well at the box office as the original, but they tend to do better than non-sequels, according to a study in the July 2008 issue of the Journal of Business Research. The shorter the period between releases, the better the sequel does at the box office. Sequels also show a faster drop in weekly revenues relative to non-sequels.\n\nSequels are most often produced in the same medium as the previous work (e.g. a film sequel is usually a sequel to another film). Producing sequels to a work in another medium has recently become common, especially when the new medium is less costly or time-consuming to produce.\n\nA sequel to a popular but discontinued television series may be produced in another medium, thereby bypassing whatever factors led to the series cancellation. \n\nSome highly popular movies and television series have inspired the production of multiple novel sequels, sometimes rivaling or even dwarfing the volume of works in the original medium.\n\nFor example, the 1956 novel \"The Hundred and One Dalmatians\", its 1961 animated adaptation and that film's 1996 live-action remake each have a sequel unrelated to the other sequels: respectively \"The Starlight Barking\" (1967), \"\" (2003, direct to video) and \"102 Dalmatians\" (2000).\n\nSometimes sequels are produced without the consent of the creator of the original work. These may be dubbed unofficial, informal, unauthorized, or illegitimate sequels. In some cases, the work is in the public domain, and there is no legal obstacle to producing sequels. An example would be a book or movie that served as a sequel to the original book \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz,\" which is in the public domain (as opposed to the 1939 movie). In other cases, the original creator or their heirs may assert copyrights and challenge the creators of the sequels. \n\nAnother example of an unofficial sequel would be \"Never Say Never Again,\" a James Bond movie starring Sean Connery that was not produced by Eon Productions, which has handled nearly all of the other Bond films.\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "11541137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11541137", "title": "Speech sound disorder", "text": "Speech sound disorder\n\nA speech sound disorder (SSD) is a speech disorder in which some speech sounds (called phonemes) in a child's (or, sometimes, an adult's) language are either not produced, not produced correctly, or are not used correctly. The term protracted phonological development is sometimes preferred when describing children's speech to emphasize the continuing development while acknowledging the delay.\n\nSpeech sound disorders may be subdivided into two primary types, articulation disorders (also called phonetic disorders) and phonemic disorders (also called phonological disorders). However, some may have a mixed disorder in which both articulation and phonological problems exist. Though speech sound disorders are associated with childhood, some \"residual\" errors may persist into adulthood.\n\nArticulation disorders (also called phonetic disorders, or simply \"artic disorders\" for short) are based on difficulty learning to physically produce the intended phonemes. Articulation disorders have to do with the main articulators which are the lips, teeth, alveolar ridge, hard palate, velum, glottis, and the tongue. If the disorder has anything to do with any of these articulators, then it is an articulation disorder. There are usually fewer errors than with a phonemic disorder, and distortions are more likely (though any omissions, additions, and substitutions may also be present). They are often treated by teaching the child how to physically produce the sound and having them practice its production until it (hopefully) becomes natural. Articulation disorders should not be confused with motor speech disorders, such as dysarthria (in which there is actual paralysis of the speech musculature) or developmental verbal dyspraxia (in which motor planning is severely impaired).\n\nIn a phonemic disorder (also called a phonological disorders) the child is having trouble learning the sound system of the language, failing to recognize which sound-contrasts also contrast meaning. For example, the sounds /k/ and /t/ may not be recognized as having different meanings, so \"call\" and \"tall\" might be treated as homophones, both being pronounced as \"tall.\" This is called \"phoneme collapse\", and in some cases many sounds may all be represented by one — e.g., /d/ might replace /t/, /k/, and /g/. As a result, the number of error sounds is often (though not always) greater than with articulation disorders and substitutions are usually the most common error. Phonemic disorders are often treated using \"minimal pairs\" (two words that differ by only one sound) to draw the child's attention to the difference and its effect on communication.\n\nSome children with phonemic disorders may seem to be able to hear phoneme distinctions in the speech of others but not their own. This is called the \"fis phenomenon\" based on scenario in which a speech pathologist will say, \"Did you say 'fis,' don't you mean 'fish'?\" To which the child responds, \"No, I didn't say 'fis,' I said 'fis'.\" In some cases, the sounds produced by the child are actually acoustically different, but not significantly enough for others to distinguish – because those sounds are not phonemically unique to speakers of the language.\n\nThough phonemic disorders are often considered language disorders in that it is the language system that is affected, they are also speech sound disorders in that the errors relate to use of phonemes. This makes them different from \"specific language impairment\", which is primarily a disorder of the syntax (grammar) and usage of language rather than the sound system. However, the two can coexist, affecting the same person.\n\nOther disorders can deal with a variety of different ways to pronounce consonants. Some examples are glides and liquids. Glides occur when the articulatory posture changes gradually from consonant to vowel. Liquids can include /l/ and /.1/ .\n\nIn some cases phonetic and phonemic errors may coexist in the same person. In such case the primary focus is usually on the phonological component but articulation therapy may be needed as part of the process, since teaching a child how to use a sound is not practical if the child does not know how to produce it.\n\nEven though most speech sound disorders can be successfully treated in childhood, and a few may even outgrow them on their own, errors may sometimes persist into adulthood rather than only being not age appropriate. Such persisting errors are referred to as \"residual errors\" and may remain for life.\n\nErrors produced by children with speech sound disorders are typically classified into four categories:\n\nSometimes, even for experts, telling exactly which type has been made is not obvious — some distorted forms of /r/ may be mistaken for /w/ by a casual observer, yet may not actually be either sound but somewhere in between. Further, children with severe speech sound disorders may be difficult to understand, making it hard to tell what word was actually intended and thus what is actually wrong with it. Some terms can be used to describe more than one of the above categories, such as lisp, which is often the replacement of /s/ with /th/ (a substitution), but can be a distortion, producing /s/ just behind the teeth resulting in a sound somewhere between /s/ and /th/.\n\nThere are three different levels of classification when determining the magnitude and type of an error that is produced:\n\nNote that omissions do not mean the sound cannot be produced, and some sounds may be produced more easily or frequently when appearing with certain other sounds: someone might be able to say \"s\" and \"t\" separately, but not \"st,\" or may be able to produce a sound at the beginning of a word but not at the end. The magnitude of the problem will often vary between different sounds from the same speaker.\n\nMost speech sound disorders occur without a known cause. A child may not learn how to produce sounds correctly or may not learn the rules of speech sounds on his or her own. These children may have a problem with speech development, which does not always mean that they will simply outgrow it by themselves. Many children do develop speech sounds over time but those who do not often need the services of a Speech-Language Pathologist to learn correct speech sounds.\n\nSome speech sound errors can result from other syndromes or disorders such as:\n\n\nIn a typical 2-year-old child, about 50% of speech may be intelligible. A 4-year-old child's speech should be intelligible overall, and a 7-year-old should be able to clearly produce most words consistent with community norms for their age. Misarticulation of certain difficult sounds (\"l\", \"r\",\n\"s\", \"z\", \"th\", \"ch\", \"dzh\", and \"zh\") may be normal up to 8 years. Children with speech sound disorder have pronunciation difficulties inappropriate for their age, and the difficulties are not caused by hearing problems, congenital deformities, motor disorders or selective mutism.\n\nThe DSM-5 diagnostic criteria are as follows:\n\n\nFor most children, the disorder is not lifelong and speech difficulties improve with time and speech-language treatment. Prognosis is poorer for children who also have a language disorder, as that may be indicative of a learning disorder.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26568934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26568934", "title": "Sturm series", "text": "Sturm series\n\nIn mathematics, the Sturm series associated with a pair of polynomials is named after Jacques Charles François Sturm.\n\nLet formula_1 and formula_2 two univariate polynomials. Suppose that they do not have a common root and the degree of formula_1 is greater than the degree of formula_2. The \"Sturm series\" is constructed by:\nThis is almost the same algorithm as Euclid's but the remainder formula_6 has negative sign.\n\nLet us see now Sturm series formula_7 associated to a characteristic polynomial formula_8 in the variable formula_9:\nwhere formula_11 for formula_12 in formula_13 are rational functions in formula_14 with the coordinate set formula_15. The series begins with two polynomials obtained by dividing formula_16 by formula_17 where formula_18 represents the imaginary unit equal to formula_19 and separate real and imaginary parts:\n\nThe remaining terms are defined with the above relation. Due to the special structure of these polynomials, they can be written in the form:\nIn these notations, the quotient formula_22 is equal to formula_23 which provides the condition formula_24. Moreover, the polynomial formula_25 replaced in the above relation gives the following recursive formulas for computation of the coefficients formula_26.\nIf formula_28 for some formula_12, the quotient formula_22 is a higher degree polynomial and the sequence formula_25 stops at formula_32 with formula_33.\n"}
{"id": "4334418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4334418", "title": "The Complexity of Songs", "text": "The Complexity of Songs\n\n\"The Complexity of Songs\" is a journal article published by computer scientist Donald Knuth in 1977, as an in-joke about computational complexity theory. The article capitalizes on the tendency of popular songs to devolve from long and content-rich ballads to highly repetitive texts with little or no meaningful content. The article notes how some songs can reach a complexity level, for a song of length \"N\" words, as formula: . The gist of the article is repeated below, maintaining the wit of the key concepts.\n\nKnuth writes that \"our ancient ancestors invented the concept of refrain\" to reduce the space complexity of songs, which becomes crucial when a large number of songs is to be committed to one's memory. Knuth's Lemma 1 states that if \"N\" is the length of a song, then the refrain decreases the song complexity to \"cN\", where the factor \"c\" < 1.\n\nKnuth further demonstrates a way of producing songs with O(formula_1) complexity, an approach \"further improved by a Scottish farmer named O. MacDonald\".\n\nMore ingenious approaches yield songs of complexity O(formula_2), a class known as \"\"m\" bottles of beer on the wall\".\n\nFinally, the progress during the 20th century—stimulated by the fact that \"the advent of modern drugs has led to demands for still less memory\"—leads to the ultimate improvement: Arbitrarily long songs with space complexity O(1), e.g. for a song to be defined by the recurrence relation\n\nProf. Kurt Eisemann of San Diego State University in his letter to the \"Communications of the ACM\" further improves the latter seemingly unbeatable estimate. He begins with an observation that for practical applications the value of the \"hidden constant\" \"c\" in the Big Oh notation may be crucial in making the difference between the feasibility and unfeasibility: for example a constant value of 10 would exceed the capacity of any known device. He further notices that a technique has already been known in Mediaeval Europe whereby textual content of an arbitrary tune can be recorded basing on the recurrence relation formula_9, where formula_10, yielding the value of the big-Oh constant \"c\" equal to 2. However it turns out that another culture achieved the absolute lower bound of O(0). As Prof. Eisemann puts it:\n\n\"When the \"Mayflower\" voyagers first descended on these shores, the native Americans proud of their achievement in the theory of information storage and retrieval, at first welcomed the strangers with the complete silence. This was meant to convey their peak achievement in the complexity of songs, namely the demonstration that a limit as low as \"c\" = 0 is indeed obtainable.\"\n\nHowever the Europeans were unprepared to grasp this notion, and the chiefs, in order to establish a common ground to convey their achievements later proceeded to demonstrate an approach described by the recurrent relation formula_11, where formula_12, with a suboptimal complexity given by \"c\" = 1.\n\nThe O(1) space complexity result was also implemented by Guy L. Steele, Jr., perhaps challenged by Knuth's article. Dr. Steele's \"TELNET Song\" used a completely different algorithm based on exponential recursion, a parody on some implementations of TELNET.\n\nIt has been suggested that the complexity analysis of human songs can be a useful pedagogic device for teaching students complexity theory.\n\nThe article \"On Superpolylogarithmic Subexponential Functions\" by Prof. Alan Sherman writes that Knuth's article was seminal for analysis of a special class of functions.\n\n"}
{"id": "17797585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17797585", "title": "The Hundred-Year Christmas", "text": "The Hundred-Year Christmas\n\nThe Hundred-Year Christmas is a fantasy novel by David Morrell, who is best known for being the creator of John Rambo in his earlier novel \"First Blood\". \"The Hundred-Year Christmas\" was first published in 1983 by Donald M. Grant in an edition of 700 copies, which were signed and numbered.\n\nThe novel was originally written as a Christmas present for Morrell's two children, and the children in the novel are named after Morell's son and daughter.\n\nThe novel concerns the friendship between Father Christmas, who lives for 100 years, and Father Time, who lives for only one. Each year Santa Claus watches a new version of his friend grow old and die, before being replaced; however, Santa's hundred years is up and it is now his turn to find a replacement. If he fails then no one will be around to take care of the infant Father Time and time itself will stop.\n\n\"The Hundred-Year Christmas\" was nominated for a World Fantasy Award in 1984 for best short story.\n"}
{"id": "9602807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9602807", "title": "Thematic interpretation", "text": "Thematic interpretation\n\nThematic interpretation is an approach to heritage interpretation originally advocated by Professor William J. Lewis (University of Vermont) and subsequently developed by Professor Sam H. Ham (University of Idaho). In the thematic approach, an interpreter relies on a central theme (i.e., a major point or message) to guide development of a communication activity or device. In presenting the activity or device, the thematic interpreter develops the theme in such a way that it will be highly relevant to an audience. According to studies, presenting a strongly relevant theme greatly increases the likelihood an interpreter will succeed in provoking an audience to think about theme-related issues.\n\nBeginning in the early 2000s, the thematic approach has been adopted widely in persuasive communication campaigns aimed at impacting environmental behaviors, especially those related to energy and water consumption, and in occupational safety and risk communication programs. In the broader fields of sustainable development and risk communication, the term \"thematic communication\" (rather than thematic \"interpretation\") is often used. The two approaches, however, are identical, and both are linked largely to Ham's (1992) book, \"Environmental Interpretation\".\n\nThe thematic approach to interpretation was popularized in the book Environmental Interpretation (1992) by Dr. Sam H. Ham (University of Idaho) which has become standard reading for many students of interpretation and interpretive tour guiding. Prior to Dr. Ham's book, two additional contributors to the field of Interpretation are its founder, Freeman Tilden and his book, \"Interpreting Our Heritage\" (1957) and Dr. Grant W. Sharpe (University of Washington) and his work, \"Interpreting the Environment\".\n\nHam formally presented the thematic approach for the first time in his 1992 book, wherein he outlined the \"EROT\" (Enjoyable, Relevant, Organized, Thematic) framework. Drawing heavily on persuasive communication research, Ham refined the EROT framework in the early 2000s and renamed it the TORE model of thematic interpretation. The most detailed presentation of the TORE model is in \"Interpretation-- Making a difference on purpose\" which Ham published in 2013.\n\nThere are obvious parallels between Ham's view of thematic interpretation and those of Freeman Tilden who is widely considered the founder of the field of interpretation. The most important parallel is that both see interpretation as a process aimed at provoking audiences to do their own thinking and thereby develop their own subjective understanding of the world. This is in contrast to the view that interpretation instructs audiences to know or accept the interpreter's understanding of things.\n\nBoth Tilden and Ham appear to be strongly influenced by the views of constructivist learning theorists--with Tilden influenced by John Dewey, and Ham influenced by cognitive constructivist Jean Piaget and social constructivist Lev Vygotsky. In the spirit of constructivist learning theory, Dewey, Piaget, and Vygotsky saw learning as the result of knowledge that is created inside a learner's own head, rather than being \"put\" there by an educator. Both Tilden, and later, Ham, advocated a very similar view in the field of interpretation. According to both of them, when interpretation is strongly relevant to its audience, it is likely to provoke thinking and elaboration.\n\nIn everyday reality, the practice of thematic interpretation involves theme-based communication by interpretive naturalists, zoo and museum educators, guides, docents, park rangers, and other communicators in natural and cultural settings. Typically interpreters are required to present complex and potentially dry subject matter to non-technical voluntary audiences (often consisting of tourists) in an interesting and engaging way. The thematic approach can involve any method that increases the relevance of an interpreter's theme to an audience, for example, comparisons, analogies and stories that link unfamiliar things to the things an audience already cares about.\n\nThematic interpretation also refers to an event in some high school competitive speech leagues such as the California High School Speech Association and the National Christian Forensics and Communications Association. \"TIers\" present multiple \"cuttings\" from published works on a common theme; they can be of humorous and/or dramatic intent. The entire speech including an introduction and transitions should not exceed ten minutes. Contestants are judged based on the appropriateness of their selections and their portrayal of the characters. Another defining characteristic of Thematic Interpretation is the use of a single binder, containing the literature, as a prop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52330913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52330913", "title": "Tirukkural translations", "text": "Tirukkural translations\n\nTirukkural, also known as the Kural, an ancient Indian treatise on the ethics and morality of the commoner, is one of the most widely translated non-religious works in the world. Authored by the ancient Tamil poet-philosopher Thiruvalluvar and dated around the 1st century BCE, it has been translated into at least 42 world languages, with about 57 different renderings in the English language alone.\n\nThe Kural text, considered to have been written in the 1st century BCE, remained unknown to the outside world for close to one and a half millennia. The first translation of the Kural text appeared in Malayalam in 1595 CE under the title \"Tirukkural Bhasha\" by an unknown author. It was a prose rendering of the entire Kural, written closely to the spoken Malayalam of that time. However, again, this unpublished manuscript remained obscure until it was first reported by the Annual Report of the Cochin Archeological Department for the year 1933–34. It took another three centuries before any translation was published in Malayalam.\n\nThe Kural text has enjoyed a universal appeal right from antiquity owing to its secular and non-denominational nature that it suited the sensibilities of all. The universality is such that, despite its having been written in the pre-Christian era, almost every religious group in India and across the world, including Christianity, has claimed the work for itself. Owing to its ethical content, the Kural remained one of the most admired ancient Indian works among the Christian missionaries of the 16th and 17th centuries, who arrived in India during the colonial era and found the Kural text containing many more ideals in addition to those that are similar to their own Christian ideals. This marked the beginning of wider translations of the Kural text.\nIn 1730, Constantius Joseph Beschi rendered the Kural text into Latin, introducing the work to the Europeans for the first time. However, only the first two books of the Kural text, namely, virtue and wealth, were translated by Beschi, who considered translating the book on love inappropriate for a Christian missionary. Around 1767, an unknown author made the first French translation, which went unnoticed. The Danish Missionary August Friedrich Caemmerer translated it into German in 1803. The first available French version, however, was the one made in 1848 by Monsieur Ariel. Here again, only parts of the work was translated. In 1856, Karl Graul translated the Kural into German, claiming that Kural is closer to the Christian preaching and offers a model of Tamil worldview. The German version was published both at London and Leipzig. In 1865, his Latin translation of the Kural text, along with commentaries in Simple Tamil, was posthumously published.\n\nThe first English translation was attempted by N. E. Kindersley in 1794 when he translated a select couplets of the Kural. This was followed by another incomplete attempt by Francis Whyte Ellis 1812, who translated only 120 couplets—69 in verse and 51 in prose. William Henry Drew translated the first two parts in prose in 1840 and 1852, respectively. Along with Drew’s English prose translation, it contained the original Tamil text, the Tamil commentary by Parimelalhagar and Ramanuja Kavirayar's amplification of the commentary. Drew, however, translated only 630 couplets. The remaining portions were translated by John Lazarus, a native missionary, thus providing the first complete English translation. In 1886, George Uglow Pope published the first complete English translation by a single author, which brought the Kural text to a wide audience of the western world.\n\nBy the turn of the twenty-first century, the Kural had already been translated to more than 37 world languages, with at least 24 complete translations in English language alone, by both native and non-native scholars. By 2014, the Kural had been translated to more than 42 languages, with 57 versions available in English. Along with the Bible and the Quran, the Kural remains one of the most translated works in the world.\n\nThe couplets of the Kural are inherently complex by virtue of their dense meaning within their terse structure. Thus, no translation can perfectly reflect the true nature of any given couplet of the Kural unless read and understood in its original Tamil form. Added to this inherent difficulty is the attempt by some scholars to either read their own ideas into the Kural couplets or deliberately misinterpret the message to make it conform to their preconceived notions. The Latin translation by Father Beshi, for instance, contains several such mistranslations noticed by modern scholars. According to V. Ramasamy, \"Beschi is purposely distorting the message of the original when he renders பிறவாழி as ‘the sea of miserable life’ and the phrase பிறவிப்பெருங்கடல் as ‘sea of this birth’ which has been translated by others as ‘the sea of many births’. Beschi means thus ‘those who swim the vast sea of miseries’. The concept of rebirth or many births for the same soul is contrary to Christian principle and belief\".\n\nBelow is a list of translations of the Kural:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6535682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6535682", "title": "Tucano people", "text": "Tucano people\n\nThe Tucano people (sometimes spelt Tukano) are a group of indigenous South Americans in the northwestern Amazon, along the Vaupés River and the surrounding area. They are mostly in Colombia, but some are in Brazil. They are usually described as being made up of many separate tribes, but that oversimplifies the social and linguistic structure of the region.\n\nThe Tucano are multilingual because men must marry outside their language group: no man may have a wife who speaks his language, which would be viewed as a kind of incest. Men choose women from various neighboring tribes who speak other languages. Furthermore, on marriage, women move into the men's households or longhouses. Consequently, in any village several languages are used: the language of the men; the various languages spoken by women who originate from different neighboring tribes; and a widespread regional 'trade' language. Children are born into the multilingual environment: the child's father speaks one language (considered the Tucano language), the child's mother another, other women with whom the child has daily contact, and perhaps still others. However, everyone in the community is interested in language-learning so most people can speak most of the languages. \nMultilingualism is taken for granted, and moving from one language to another in the course of a single conversation is very common. In fact, multilingualism is so usual that the Tucano are hardly conscious that they do speak different languages as they shift easily from one to another. They cannot readily tell an outsider how many languages they speak, and they must be suitably prompted to enumerate the languages that they speak and to describe how well they speak each one.\n\nAs mentioned above, the Tucano practice linguistic exogamy. Members of a linguistic descent group marry outside their own linguistic descent group. As a result, it is normal for Tucano people to speak two, three, or more Tucanoan languages, and any Tucano household (longhouse) is likely to be host to numerous languages. The descent groups (sometimes referred to as \"tribes\") all have their accompanying language; some of the most well known are listed below:\n\n\nThe Tucano are swidden horticulturalists and grow manioc and other staples in forest clearings. They also hunt, trap, fish, and forage wild plants and animals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18409468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18409468", "title": "Wellen (novel)", "text": "Wellen (novel)\n\nWellen (lit. \"Waves\"), published in English in 1929 as Tides, is a novel by Eduard von Keyserling that was first published in German in 1911. Set during a long hot summer in a small fishing village somewhere on the Baltic Sea, most likely on the Curonian Spit, it depicts a group of aristocratic city-dwellers spending their holidays in that remote part of the German Empire. However, rather than painting a rural idyll, Keyserling focuses on the follies of a doomed \"fin de siècle\" society whose self-imposed repressions eventually lead to catastrophe.\n\nDoralice, Countess of Köhne-Jasky, has walked out on her much older husband and run off with Hans Grill, a young artist who had been commissioned by the Count to paint his wife's picture. Now, a year later, Hans and Doralice have come to the Baltic coast to spend a solitary summer's holiday in a fisherman's hut. They are said to have got married in London so their relationship is outwardly considered \"correct\" although their marriage is generally seen as a misalliance, especially by the society Doralice has left behind. While she herself is rather unsure about her future, Hans Grill is an optimistic free spirit, though not quite a libertine, who is full of plans in which Doralice figures prominently. He dreams of setting himself up as a successful painter in Munich — thus being eventually able to stop living off his wife's money – and of living with her in a small suburban house.\n\nRather than shunning the unlikely couple, the other tourists at the small fishing village feel morally obliged to associate with them, at least perfunctorily. They are the extended Buttlär family: Baron von Buttlär; his wife Bella; their three children Lolo, Nini, und Wedig; and Baron von Buttlär's mother-in-law, the Generalin von Palikow. They are soon to be joined by Hilmar Baron von dem Hamm, Lolo's dashing fiancé, who is an officer in the German army. Also present is the Geheimrat von Knospelius, a high-ranking civil servant. Burdened with a physical handicap, and never having married, Knospelius is used to leading a vicarious life through the people he surrounds himself with, and as soon as they have arrived he introduces himself to both the Buttlärs and the Grills.\n\nThe presence of a scandalous couple does not go unnoticed by the Buttlär children. Rather, it is one of their games to sneak out of the house at night together with Ernestine, one of the young servants, to catch a glimpse of Doralice through the open window of the Grimms' rented hut. One day, while swimming in the sea, Lolo meets Doralice on a sandbank and is deeply impressed by her cheerful manner, her wit, and her beauty, so much so that she decides to send her a huge bunch of red roses, while instinctively choosing her as her role model.\n\nOthers who are also impressed by Doralice's beauty include Baron von Buttlär, a known womaniser, who is now jealously guarded by his wife, and Hilmar von dem Hamm, who openly starts courting Doralice despite her husband's and his own fiancée's presence. His endeavours to win Doralice's heart culminate in a boating trip that he undertakes with her while the others stay behind. Doralice feels flattered by the attentions of a member of the very social class that has ostracised her. At the same time, she realizes her indebtedness to, and possibly love for, Hans and stops all further advances on Hilmar's part. Lolo on the other hand, aware of her fiancé's infatuation, but due to an over-protective upbringing unprepared for life's harsh realities, decides to sacrifice herself by committing suicide. At night she secretly leaves the house wearing only her bathing costume under her coat, walks down to the beach and starts swimming out into the ocean, far beyond the sandbank where she met Doralice. She is rescued by local fishermen who drag her half-conscious body into their boat and return her to her family.\n\nAlthough Lolo makes a quick and full recovery, etiquette demands of the Buttlärs that they depart immediately. Those who stay behind into the autumn are Hans and Doralice Grimm and Geheimrat Knospelius – the latter because, unbeknown to everyone, he has handed in his resignation and now has all the time in the world, and the Grimms because they actually have no other place to go. In the course of the summer, Hans has become more and more monosyllabic, and Doralice longs for some serious talk concerning their future together: She realizes that she desperately needs Hans's reassurance of his love for her. Hans, however, keeps postponing that talk to the following day and indulges in his growing fascination with the sea. Not only does he paint it; he now accompanies the fishermen on their nightly routine on a more or less regular basis and then sleeps during most of the day.\n\nOne night he goes out fishing with Steege, a notorious drunkard whose vice has prevented him from buying a new fishing boat. The old dilapidated one cannot defy the thunderstorm of which they have been warned, and the sea claims two more lives: After long days of waiting, Doralice and Mrs Steege finally accept the fact that their husbands are not coming back. At this point Knospelius makes Doralice the unexpected offer to be his companion for the foreseeable future and to spend the winter with him touring the Greek islands.\n\nLiterary critic Jens Malte Fischer called Keyserling \"possibly the most unknown of the great German story-tellers of the century.\" \"Wellen\" was selected as one of 100 great novels of the 20th century by the \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" and reprinted in a special edition in 2004.\n\nIn 2005 Vivian Naefe adapted Keyserling's novel for television. Based on a screenplay by Günter Schütter, the film starred Sunnyi Melles, Matthias Habich and Marie Bäumer.\n\nVarious changes to the plot of the novel were made. For example, in the film, the action is set on the eve of the First World War in order to stress the imminence of death of an aristocratic society and its antiquated social mores and conventions. Also, for whatever reason, Knospelius was renamed \"Froselius\", while the artist's name is given as \"Til Knop\". Hilmar von dem Hamm becomes \"Carl von Gonthard\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5408944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5408944", "title": "Yin Yang Yo!", "text": "Yin Yang Yo!\n\nYin Yang Yo! is a flash animated television series created by Bob Boyle and produced by Jetix Animation Concepts. It is the third Jetix-original show. It first aired on August 26, 2006 as a sneak peek and premiered on September 4, 2006 on Jetix in the United States. The show debuted on Jetix in the United Kingdom on February 5, 2007 after a sneak peek preview on January 27, 2007 while making its Canadian television premiere on Family Channel on March 25, 2007. The series is supplied with writers and animators' staff associated with \"Fairly OddParents\", \"6teen\", \"Clone High\" and \"Danny Phantom\". Head writer Steve Marmel, an anime fan, took an inspiration from various anime and anime-influenced shows such as \"Teen Titans\" and \"FLCL\". It stars two anthropomorphic rabbits named Yin and Yang, and their sensei-like panda figure named Yo, a master of fictional mystical martial arts called Woo Foo.\n\nIn 2007, the show was nominated for British Academy Children's Award by the BAFTA in the \"International\" category, but lost to Stephen Hillenburg's \"SpongeBob SquarePants\". From its launch in June 1, 2011 to late 2012, Disney XD Canada aired re-runs of the series.\n\nThe show is about two rabbit twins named Yin (Stephanie Morgenstern) and Yang (Scott McCord) that train under Master Yo, a grumpy old panda who is eventually revealed to be their biological father. They learn the sacred art of Woo Foo, a special type of martial arts that involves both might and magic. They must work together to save the world from evil villains and forces that want to destroy, corrupt, or take it over. However, through all these adventures, Yin and Yang still portray stereotypical siblings; belligerently antagonistic but still ultimately caring about each other and working together when needed.\n\nDuring the first season, the primary goal was to defeat the Night Master, a powerful enemy. During the second season, there are three primary storylines. The first one sees Yin and Yang trying to prevent other villains from being crowned the new Night Master. The second is Yang's own quest to find powerful mystic artifacts by some later-revealed-to-be villains: four evil heads who he thinks are the masters of Woo Foo. The third sees Yin and Yang against the original and reborn Night Master, Eradicus — ultimately trying to build a Woo Foo army to fight against his army.\n\nThe setting is in a town where its buildings have an Asian style. The residents are monsters, humanoids, robots and animals with human-like qualities and behaviors. The residents keep unusual pets like puppygriffs, creatures that are half puppy and half griffin, as well as real animals like dogs, cats, opossums or armadillos. Magic and martial arts still exist since ancient times when the Night Masters were around. It is revealed in Yin Yang You!, that the series takes place in another dimension.\n\n\"Yin Yang Yo!\" premiered on Jetix on September 4, 2006, and the first season has been completed with 26 episodes, including the three parts to \"Woofoogeddon\". In January 2007, Jetix ordered a second season of \"Yin Yang Yo!\" with 26 episodes planned. The second season premiered on New Year's Day 2008, with 13 additional episodes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe series was created by Bob Boyle II, an animator and storyboard artist previously working on Nickelodeon projects such as \"The Fairly OddParents\" and \"Danny Phantom\". Steve Marmel, a stand-up comedian and also writer for \"The Fairly OddParents\" and \"Danny Phantom\", who known Boyle for years, was offered a long-term contract from Disney/Jetix to participate on the project. Marmel drew influence from anime shows such as Gainax-produced , putting American anime-influenced animated shows like \"Teen Titans\" and \"Samurai Jack\" in the mix, using it as driving force to deliver comedy. Although a show directed at general audiences, especially children over 6 years old, with its mildly risqué innuendos it also targets adults as well.\n\"'They asked if I wanted to work on Bob's show because it was their first comedy. It was just a match. I'm working with a friend and I'm working with a genre that I love, anime. I don't think anybody's ever done a flat-out tweak on it for comedy purposes. There have been some tongue-in-cheek moments, but nobody's ever said 'We're going to play with this and make it our own,\" you know? Do to anime what \"Seinfeld\" did to comedy. \"\n\n\"— Steve Marmel\"\nAlthough Bob Boyle II did not animate the series, the animation for the show is instead done by Elliott Animation, a Canadian animation studio previously working on the Teletoon original series \"6teen\". An extra group of animators come from the Disney campus of Burbank in California, United States and Frederator Studios, producer of many Nickelodeon titles. Most cartoons animated by Elliott Animation feature the voice of Christian Potenza, but \"Yin Yang Yo!\" does not feature that voice actor despite it being created in America by Bob Boyle II.\n\nMany episodes of \"Yin Yang Yo!\" were directed by Ted Collyer (also director of \"Clone High\"), Chad Hicks (also director of \"Total Drama\") and John Fountain (as an animator, participated on \"Fairly OddParents\", \"My Life as a Teenage Robot\", while the main established writing force was Steve Marmel (also executive producer) with the help of Aydrea ten Bosch (\"ChalkZone\"), Eric Trueheart (\"Invader Zim\"), Sib Ventress (Danny Phantom). Chris Romano and Eric Falconer, responsible for Spike's \"Blue Mountain State\" and production of \"How I Met Your Mother\" and \"The Sarah Silverman Program\" also participated on the writing of various episodes. Staff writers Evan Gore & Heather Lombard who penned \"Futurama\" 's episode \"Fear of a Bot Planet\" (1ACV05), lately dedicated their work for \"\", participated in the creative process of \"Yin Yang Yo!\" as well.\n\nCommon Sense Media had a mixed review about the show, giving it a score of 3/5.\n\n"}
{"id": "39306690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39306690", "title": "Zuckerkandl!", "text": "Zuckerkandl!\n\nZuckerkandl! is a comic book published in 1968. It was written by Robert Maynard Hutchins and animated by John Hubley. The book profiles the philosophy of the fictitious Austrian thinker Dr. Alexander Zuckerkandl and satirizes his philosophy of disentanglement. Resembling a fairy tale in form, \"Zuckerkandl!\" has been interpreted as a parody of Freud. As such, it blames Zuckerkandl and by extension Freud for the ills of modern society. The comic book also has an animated film version, directed by John Hubley.\n\n"}
