{"id": "18233520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18233520", "title": "Acharya S", "text": "Acharya S\n\nDorothy Milne Murdock (March 27, 1960 – December 25, 2015), better known by her pen names Acharya S and D. M. Murdock, was an American writer who supported the Christ myth theory that Jesus never existed as a historical person and was rather a figure fabricated by commingling the mythologies of various pre-Christian Sun deities and dying-and-rising deities.\n\nHer last published book is \"Did Moses Exist? The Myth of the Israelite Lawgiver\".\n\nShe wrote and operated a website focused on history, religion and spirituality, and astro-theology. She asserted that the pre-Christian religious civilizations understood their mythologies as allegorical, but Christians obliterated evidence to the contrary by destroying and controlling literature when they attained control of the Roman Empire, which led to widespread illiteracy in the ancient world, ensuring that the mythical nature of Christ's story was hidden. She argued that the Christian canon, as well as its important figures, were based on Roman, Greek, Egyptian, and other cultures' myths. Her theories have been variously received by mainstream scholars, for instance Robert M. Price criticized her first book while praising later ones.\n\nShe also wrote against the ancient astronauts theories, asserting that they \"may be prompted by the same type of motivation that produced the Bible, a chronicle largely consisting of the plagiarized myths of other cultures\" refashioned as historical facts concerning purported historical characters, and may be driven by the attempt to validate Biblical mythology as historical under a new pseudo-scientific interpretation.\n\nMurdock was born to James Milne Murdock and Beatrice Murdock in Massachusetts and grew up in Avon, Connecticut. She received a Bachelor of Liberal Arts degree in Classics, Greek Civilization, from Franklin and Marshall College, after which she spent a year at the American School of Classical Studies at Athens, Greece.\n\nShe died of breast cancer that spread into her immune system and liver on December 25, 2015. Murdock had one son, Jason, and she was known as \"Dori\" to loved ones.\n\nMurdock began her website, \"Truth Be Known\", in 1995.\n\nIn 1999, as Acharya S, she published her first book, \"The Christ Conspiracy: The Greatest Story Ever Sold\", arguing the concept of Jesus Christ and his story is a fabrication.\n\nHer 2007 book, \"Who Was Jesus? Fingerprints of The Christ\" continues the theme of \"The Christ Conspiracy\" by expanding her theory questioning the historicity of Jesus, alleging \"early Christian history to be largely mythical, by sorting through available historical and archaeological data.\"\n\nIn 2009 she released \"Christ in Egypt: The Horus-Jesus Connection\" and \"The Gospel According to Acharya S\".\n\nWriter Russ Kick, in his book \"You Are Being Lied To\", describes \"The Christ Conspiracy\" as \"an essential book for anyone who wants to know the reality behind the world's dominant religion\". Conspiracy theorist and publisher Kenn Thomas calls her a \"great chronicler of the conspiracy known as Christianity\".\n\nMeanwhile, Baptist comparative religion scholar Clinton Bennett compares her views to those of radical freethinker Robert Taylor (nicknamed \"the Devil's chaplain\"), secularist MP and Christ-mythicist John M. Robertson, and American mythographer Joseph Campbell. Butler University religion professor James F. McGrath describes her viewpoint as one that \"once had some currency among scholars\" in the 19th and early 20th centuries, but was subsequently abandoned.\n\nAtheist activist and Christ mythicist Richard Carrier criticized her use of the inscriptions at Luxor to make the claim that the story of Jesus' birth was inspired by the Luxor story of the birth of Horus. Theologian and Christ-mythicist Robert M. Price also criticized Murdock's first book, while promoting her \"Suns of God: Krishna, Buddha and Christ Unveiled\" in \"The Pre-Nicene New Testament: Fifty-Four Formative Texts\", and writing the foreword to her \"Who Was Jesus?: Fingerprints of the Christ\".\n\nHer work has also been criticized by New Testament scholar Bart D. Ehrman, who, in his \"Did Jesus Exist?: The Historical Argument for Jesus of Nazareth\" calls Murdock's \"The Christ Conspiracy\" \"the breathless conspirator's dream\". He says \"all of Acharya's major points are in fact wrong\" and her book \"is filled with so many factual errors and outlandish assertions that it is hard to believe the author is serious\". Taking her as representative of some other writers about the Christ myth theory, he continues \"Mythicists of this ilk should not be surprised that their views are not taken seriously by real scholars, mentioned by experts in the field, or even read by them\".\n\nEmeritus Professor of New Testament Languages and Literature at the University of Nottingham Maurice Casey criticized her work for \"her anti-Christian outlook, a lack of any proper sense of reality, failure to give adequate references, inability to interpret primary sources correctly, and dependence on inaccurate out-of-date secondary sources rather than primary evidence.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "749755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=749755", "title": "Aleksandra Ekster", "text": "Aleksandra Ekster\n\nAleksandra Aleksandrovna Ekster (, ; 18 January 1882 – 17 March 1949), also known as Alexandra Exter, was a Russian painter (Cubo-Futurist, Suprematist, Constructivist) and designer of international stature who divided her life between Kiev, St. Petersburg, Moscow, Vienna, and Paris.\n\nShe was born \"Aleksandra Aleksandrovna Grigorovich\" in Białystok, in the Grodno Governorate of the Russian Empire (now Poland) to a wealthy Belarusian family. Her father, Aleksandr Grigorovich, was a wealthy Belarusian businessman. Her mother was Greek. Young Aleksandra received an excellent private education, studying languages, music, art, and taking private drawing lessons. Soon her parents moved to Kyiv (Kiev), and Asya, as called by her friends, attended Kiev gymnasium St. Olga and Kiev Art School, where she studied with Alexander Bogomazov and Alexander Archipenko. Her teachers included Mykola Pymonenko. Aleksandra graduated in painting from Kiev Art School in 1906.\nIn 1908, Aleksandra Grigorovich married a successful Kiev lawyer, Nikolai Evgenyevich Ekster. The Eksters belonged to cultural and intellectual elite of Kiev. She spent several months with her husband in Paris, and there she attended Académie de la Grande Chaumière in Montparnasse. From 1908 to 1924 she intermittently lived in Kiev, St. Petersburg, Odessa, Paris, Rome and Moscow.\n\nHer painting studio in the attic at 27 Funduklievskaya Street, now Khmelnytsky Street, was a rallying stage for Kiev's intellectual elite.In the attic in her studio there worked future luminaries of world decorative art Vadim Meller, Anatole Petrytsky and P.Tchelitchew . There she was visited by poets and writers, such as Anna Akhmatova, Ilia Ehrenburg, and Osip Mandelstam, dancers Bronislava Nijinska and Elsa Kruger, as well as many artists Alexander Bogomazov, Wladimir Baranoff-Rossine, and students, such as Grigori Kozintsev, Sergei Yutkevich, and Aleksei Kapler among many others. In 1908 she participated in an exhibition together with members of the group \"Zveno (Link)\" organized by David Burliuk, Wladimir Burliuk and others in Kiev.\n\nIn Paris, Aleksandra Ekster was a personal friend of Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque, who introduced her to Gertrude Stein.\n\nShe exhibited six works at the Salon de la Section d'Or, Galerie La Boétie, Paris, October 1912, with Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Marcel Duchamp and others.\n\nIn 1914, Ekster participated in the \"Salon des Indépendants\" exhibitions in Paris, together with Kazimir Malevich, Alexander Archipenko, Vadym Meller, Sonia Delaunay-Terk and other French and Russian artists. In that same year she participated with the “Russians” Archipenko, Koulbine and Rozanova in the \"International Futurist Exhibition\" in Rome. In 1915 she joined the group of avant-garde artists \"Supremus\". Her friend introduced her to the poet Apollinaire, who took her to Picasso's workshop. According to Moscow Chamber Theatre actress Alice Coonen, \"In [Ekster's] Parisian household there was a conspicuous peculiar combination of European culture with Ukrainian life. On the walls between Picasso and Braque paintings there was Ukrainian embroidery; on the floor was a Ukrainian carpet, at the table they served clay pots, colorful majolica plates of dumplings.\"\n\nUnder the avant-guard umbrella, Ekster has been noted to be a suprematist and constructivist painter as well as a major influencer of the Art Deco movement.\n\nWhile not confined within a particular movement, Ekster was one of the most experimental women of the avant-garde. Ekster absorbed from many sources and cultures in order to develop her own original style. In 1915–1916 she worked in the peasant craft cooperatives in the villages Skoptsi and Verbovka along with Kazimir Malevich, Yevgenia Pribylskaya, Natalia Davidova, Nina Genke, Liubov Popova, Ivan Puni, Olga Rozanova, Nadezhda Udaltsova and others. Ekster later founded a teaching and production workshop (MDI) in Kiev (1918–1920). Vadym Meller, Anatol Petrytsky, Kliment Red'ko, Tchelitchew, Shifrin, Nikritin worked there. Also during this period she was one of the leading stage designers of Alexander Tairov's Chamber Theatre.\n\nIn 1919 together with other avant-garde artists Kliment Red'ko and Nina Genke-Meller she decorated the streets and squares of Kiev and Odessa in abstract style for Revolution Festivities. She worked with Vadym Meller as a costume designer in a ballet studio of the dancer Bronislava Nijinska.\n\nIn 1921 she became a director of the elementary course \"Color\" at the Higher Artistic-Technical Workshop (VKhUTEMAS) in Moscow, a position she held until 1924. Her work was displayed alongside that of other Constructivist artists at the \"5x5=25\" exhibition held in Moscow in 1921.\n\nIn line with her eclectic avant-guard-like style, Ekster’s early paintings strongly influenced her costume design as well as her book illustrations, which are scarcely noted. All of Ekster’s works, no matter the medium, stick to her distinct style. Her works are vibrant, playful, dramatic, and theatrical in composition, subject matter, and color. Ekster constantly stayed true to her composition aesthetic across all mediums. Furthermore, each medium only enhanced and influenced her work in other mediums.\nWith her assimilation of many different genres her essential futurist and cubist ideas was always in tandem with her attention to colour and rhythm. Ekster uses many elements of geometric compositions, which reinforce the core intentions of dynamism, vibrant contrasts, and free brushwork. Ekster stretched the dynamic intentions of her work across all mediums. Ekster’s theatrical works such as sculptures, costume design, set design, and decorations for the revolutionary festivals, strongly reflect her work with geometric elements and vibrant intentions. Through her costume work she experimented with the transparency, movement, and vibrancy of fabrics. Ekster’s movement of her brushstroke in her artwork is reflected in the movement of the fabric in her costumes. Ekster’s theatrical sets used multi-coloured dimensions and experimented with spatial structures. She continued with these experimental tendencies in her later puppet designs. With her experimentation across many mediums Ekster started to take the concept of her costume designing and integrate it into everyday life. In 1921 Ekster’s work in fashion design began. Though her mass production designs were wearable, most of her fashion design was highly decorative and innovative, usually falling under the category of haute couture.\n\nIn 1923, she continued her work in many media in addition to collaborating with Vera Mukhina and Boris Gladkov in Moscow on the decor of the All Russian Exhibition pavilions.\n\nIn 1924 Aleksandra Ekster and her husband emigrated to France and settled in Paris, where she initially became a professor at the \"Academie Moderne\". From 1926 to 1930 Ekster was a professor at Fernand Léger's Académie d'Art Contemporain. In 1933 she began creating beautiful and original illuminated manuscripts (gouache on paper), perhaps the most important works of the last phase of her life. The \"Callimaque\" manuscript (c. 1939, the text being a French translation of a hymn by Hellenistic poet Callimachus) is widely regarded as her masterpiece. In 1936 she participated in the exhibition \"Cubism and Abstract Art\" in New York and went on to have solo exhibitions in Prague and in Paris. She was a book illustrator for the publishing company \"Flammarion\" in Paris from 1936 until her death in the Paris suburb of Fontenay-aux-Roses. During the past few decades her reputation has increased dramatically, as have the prices of her works. As a consequence, several fakes have appeared on the market in recent years.\n\n"}
{"id": "1824722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824722", "title": "Alessandro Palma di Cesnola", "text": "Alessandro Palma di Cesnola\n\nAlessandro Palma di Cesnola (1839–1914) was an archaeologist who excavated in Cyprus. He worked at Paphos, where he was U.S. vice-consul, and Salamis on behalf of the British government. The results of these are described in \"Salaminia\" (1882).\n\nAlessandro was the brother of the better known archaeologist Luigi Palma Di Cesnola.\n\n"}
{"id": "22158370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22158370", "title": "Anthony Aveni", "text": "Anthony Aveni\n\nAnthony Francis Aveni (born 1938) is an American academic anthropologist, astronomer, and author, noted in particular for his extensive publications and leading contributions to the field of archaeoastronomy. With an academic career spanning over four decades, Aveni is recognized for his influence on the development of archaeoastronomy as a discipline in the latter 20th century. He has specialized in the study of ancient astronomical practices in the Americas, and is one of the founders of research into the historical astronomy of pre-Columbian Mesoamerican cultures. Aveni holds an endowed chair as the Russell Colgate Distinguished University Professor of Astronomy and Anthropology and Native American Studies at Colgate University in Hamilton, New York. With his artist wife Lorraine, he currently resides in Hamilton, New York. He has more than 34 books and 300 research publications to his credit, including three cover articles in Science magazine and key works in The Sciences, American Scientist, American Antiquity, Latin American Antiquity, and The Journal of Archaeological Research. Two of his short pieces have been cited as \"notable essays\" in the volumes Best American Essays and Best American Science Writing of 2002. He has been awarded research grants by the National Geographic Society, the National Science Foundation and various private foundations for work in both American continents as well as in Europe and the Middle East.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52470042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52470042", "title": "Avioccala", "text": "Avioccala\n\nAvioccala was a Roman and Byzantine era town in the Roman province of Africa Proconsularis in northern Tunisia. The town lasted from 30BC to about 640AD, and has been tentatively identified with the stone ruins at Sidi-Amara, Tunisia.\n\nThe city was endowed by a woman of senatorial rank, Osica Modesta Cornelia Patruina Publiana, and a statue of her has been found in the ruins.\n\nThe town was also the seat of a Catholic bishopric in the ecclesiastical province of Carthage. Although the diocese ceased to function in the end of the 7th century, the diocese remains a titular see in the Roman Catholic Church.\nKnown bishops include:\n\n"}
{"id": "42867737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42867737", "title": "Avital Leibovich", "text": "Avital Leibovich\n\nAvital Leibovich (Hebrew: אביטל ליבוביץ) is the Director of the American Jewish Committee (AJC) in Israel.\n\nLeibovich graduated with a BA in English Literature and Political Science from Bar Ilan University in 1992, and received a MA in International Relations from University of Haifa in 1998; she also received a diploma in Spokesmanship, Communications, and Public Relations from the Department of Foreign Affairs at Bar Ilan University in 2002.\n\nLeibovich served for 22 years in the Israel Defense Forces, achieving the rank of lieutenant colonel, and holding a wide range of senior media and public relations positions within the Defense Forces.\n\nHer most recent role was Head of the Interactive Media Branch of the IDF Spokesperson's Unit, a branch which she created as a response to the growing importance of social networks and internet platforms as media.\n\nLeibovich also held the position of Head of the Foreign Press Branch, acquiring over seven years of expertise working with Foreign Media, and establishing strong connections between the IDF and more traditional International Media in many languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "29470439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29470439", "title": "Barbara Taylor", "text": "Barbara Taylor\n\nBarbara Taylor is a Canadian-born historian based in the United Kingdom, specialising in the Enlightenment, gender studies and the history of subjectivity. She is Professor of Humanities at Queen Mary, University of London.\n\nTaylor has written a biography of Mary Wollstonecraft, the early English feminist and republican, and continues to speak on her life, for example in 2009 at Newington Green Unitarian Church as part of the celebrations of the 250th anniversary of Wollstonecraft's birth.\n\nWith psychologist Adam Phillips, Taylor is the coauthor of \"On Kindness\" (2009).\nTaylor's memoir \"The Last Asylum: A Memoir of Madness in Our Times\", describing her years at Friern Hospital, was published in 2014.\nIt was a finalist for the 2015 RBC Taylor Prize.\n\n"}
{"id": "18346385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18346385", "title": "Berlin-Marzahn concentration camp", "text": "Berlin-Marzahn concentration camp\n\nBerlin-Marzahn Rastplatz was a camp set up for Romani people in the Berlin suburb of Marzahn by Nazi authorities.\n\nThe Nazis used the Nuremberg Laws related to social misfits, vagabonds, and criminals as a means to intimidate and arrest Romani and Sinti Gypsies in Germany. At 4 a.m. on 16 July 1936, prior to the opening of the 1936 Berlin Olympics, police arrested 600 Gypsies in Greater Berlin and forcibly relocated them via 130 caravans to Marzahn, an open field in eastern Berlin sandwiched between a cemetery and a sewage dump.\nUpon arrival the men and women were separated and taken for medical inspection. From there, prisoners were either deemed fit to work or unfit. Those that were deemed unfit were sent to execution. Later, the prison would be surrounded by barbed wire and prisoners were subject to forced labour in armament plants. The camp also led to involuntary sterilization and loss of citizenship to the Gypsy prisoners as they were classified as aliens (Non-Aryans).\n\nEventually, the men from Marzahn would be sent to Sachsenhausen concentration camp (in 1938), and women and children were sent to Auschwitz (in 1943).\n"}
{"id": "30864851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30864851", "title": "Betancuria", "text": "Betancuria\n\nBetancuria is a small town and a municipality in the western part of the island of Fuerteventura in the Province of Las Palmas, Canary Islands, Spain. The population is 811 (2013), and the area is . It is situated in a mountainous region, west of Antigua and southwest of the island capital Puerto del Rosario. By population it is the smallest municipality in Fuerteventura as well as all of the Canary Islands.\n\nBetancuria is named after Jean de Béthencourt, who founded the town in 1404 with Gadifer de La Salle. It was the original capital of the Kingdom of the Canary Islands, and later capital of Fuerteventura. \n\nIn 1424 Pope Martin V erected in Betancuria brief Bishopric of Fuerteventura, which encompassed all the Canary Islands except the island of Lanzarote. The origin of this bishopric is directly related to the events that occurred after the Great Schism (1378-1417). This was due to the fact that the bishop of San Marcial del Rubicón in Lanzarote (only diocese at the time of the Canary Islands) did not recognize the papacy of Martin V, as this bishop was a supporter of anti-Pope Benedict XIII. The Bishopric of Fuerteventura was based in \"Parish of Santa María de Betancuria\", for it to rank high cathedral. After the reintegration of the Diocese of San Marcial del Rubicón in the papacy of Martin V, the Bishopric of Fuerteventura was abolished only seven years after it was created in 1431.\n\nIt was razed by pirates in 1593, but remained capital of Fuerteventura until 1834, when Antigua became capital. In Vega de Rio Palmas is the hermitage of the Virgen de la Peña, the patron saint of the island of Fuerteventura.\n\n"}
{"id": "1923764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1923764", "title": "Bioarchaeology", "text": "Bioarchaeology\n\nThe term bioarchaeology was first coined by British archaeologist Grahame Clark in 1972 as a reference to zooarchaeology, or the study of animal bones from archaeological sites. Redefined in 1977 by Jane Buikstra, bioarchaeology in the US now refers to the scientific study of human remains from archaeological sites, a discipline known in other countries as osteoarchaeology or palaeo-osteology. In England and other European countries, the term 'bioarchaeology' is borrowed to cover all biological remains from sites.\n\nBioarchaeology was largely born from the practices of New Archaeology, which developed in the US in the 1970s as a reaction to a mainly cultural-historical approach to understanding the past. Proponents of New Archaeology advocated using processual methods to test hypotheses about the interaction between culture and biology, or a biocultural approach. Some archaeologists advocate a more holistic approach to bioarchaeology that incorporates critical theory and is more relevant to modern descent populations.\n\nIf possible, human remains from archaeological sites are analyzed to determine sex, age, and health.\n\nBioarchaeologists sometimes create life tables, a type of cohort analysis, to understand the demographic characteristics (such as risk of death or sex ratio) of a given age cohort within a population. Age and sex are crucial variables in the construction of a life table, although this information is often not available to bioarchaeologists. Therefore, it is often necessary to estimate the age and sex of individuals based on specific morphological characteristics of the skeleton.\n\nThe estimation of age in bioarchaeology and osteology actually refers to an approximation of skeletal or biological age-at-death. The primary assumption in age estimation is that an individual's skeletal age is closely associated with their chronological age. Age estimation can be based on patterns of growth and development or degenerative changes in the skeleton. Many methods tracking these types of changes have been developed using a variety of skeletal series. For instance, in children age is typically estimated by assessing their dental development, ossification and fusion of specific skeletal elements, or long bone length. In adults, degenerative changes to the pubic symphysis, the auricular surface of the ilium, the sternal end of the 4th rib, and dental attrition are commonly used to estimate skeletal age.\n\nDifferences in male and female skeletal anatomy are used by bioarchaeologists to determine the biological sex of human skeletons. Humans are sexually dimorphic, although overlap in body shape and sexual characteristics is possible. Not all skeletons can be assigned a sex, and some may be wrongly identified as male or female. Sexing skeletons is based on the observation that biological males and biological females differ most in the skull and pelvis; bioarchaeologists focus on these parts of the body when determining sex, although other body parts can also be used. The female pelvis is generally broader than the male pelvis, and the angle between the two inferior pubic rami (the sub-pubic angle) is wider and more U-shaped, while the sub-pubic angle of the male is more V-shaped and less than 90 degrees. Phenice details numerous visual differences between the male and female pelvis.\n\nIn general, the male skeleton is more robust than the female skeleton because of the greater muscles mass of the male. Males generally have more pronounced brow ridges, nuchal crests, and mastoid processes. It should be remembered that skeletal size and robustness are influenced by nutrition and activity levels. Pelvic and cranial features are considered to be more reliable indicators of biological sex. Sexing skeletons of young people who have not completed puberty is more difficult and problematic than sexing adults, because the body has not had time to develop fully.\n\nBioarchaeological sexing of skeletons is not error-proof. In reviewing the sexing of Egyptian skulls from Qua and Badari, Mann found that 20.3% could be assigned to a different sex than the sex indicated in the archaeological literature. A re-evalutaion of Mann's work showed that he did not understand the tomb numbering system of the old excavation and assigned wrong tomb numbers to the skulls. The sexing of the bone material was actually quite correct. However, recording errors and re-arranging of human remains may play a part in this great incidence of misidentification.\n\nDirect testing of bioarchaeological methods for sexing skeletons by comparing gendered names on coffin plates from the crypt at Christ Church, Spitalfields, London to the associated remains resulted in a 98 percent success rate.\n\nSex-based differences are not inherently a form of inequality, but become an inequality when members of one sex are given privileges based on their sex. This stems from society investing differences with cultural and social meaning. Gendered work patterns may make their marks on the bones and be identifiable in the archaeological record. Molleson found evidence of gendered work patterns by noting extremely arthritic big toes, a collapse of the last dorsal vertebrae, and muscular arms and legs among female skeletons at Abu Hureyra. She interpreted this sex-based pattern of skeletal difference as indicative of gendered work patterns. These kinds of skeletal changes could have resulted from women spending long periods of time kneeling while grinding grain with the toes curled forward. Investigation of gender from mortuary remains is of growing interest to archaeologists.\n\nEnamel hypoplasia refers to transverse furrows or pits that form in the enamel surface of teeth when the normal process of tooth growth stops, resulting in a deficit of enamel. Enamel hypoplasias generally form due to disease and/or poor nutrition. Linear furrows are commonly referred to as linear enamel hypoplasias (LEHs); LEHs can range in size from microscopic to visible to the naked eye. By examining the spacing of perikymata grooves (horizontal growth lines), the duration of the stressor can be estimated, although Mays argues that the width of the hypoplasia bears only an indirect relationship to the duration of the stressor.\n\nStudies of dental enamel hypoplasia are used to study child health. Unlike bone, teeth are not remodeled, so they can provide a more reliable indicator of past health events as long as the enamel remains intact. Dental hypoplasias provide an indicator of health status during the time in childhood when the enamel of the tooth crown is being formed. Not all of the enamel layers are visible on the surface of the tooth because enamel layers that are formed early in crown development are buried by later layers. Hypoplasias on this part of the tooth do not show on the surface of the tooth. Because of this buried enamel, teeth record stressors form a few months after the start of the event. The proportion of enamel crown formation time represented by this buried in enamel varies from up to 50 percent in molars to 15-20 percent in anterior teeth. Surface hypoplasias record stressors occurring from about one to seven years, or up to 13 years if the third molar is included.\n\nIt was long assumed that iron deficiency anemia has marked effects on the flat bones of the cranium of infants and young children. That as the body attempts to compensate for low iron levels by increasing red blood cell production in the young, sieve-like lesions develop in the cranial vaults (termed porotic hyperostosis) and/or the orbits (termed cribia orbitalia). This bone is spongy and soft.\n\nIt is however, highly unlikely that iron deficiency anemia is a cause of either porotic hyperostosis or cribra orbitalia. These are more likely the result of vascular activity in these areas and are unlikely to be pathological. The development of cribra orbitalia and porotic hyperostosis could also be attributed to other causes besides an iron deficiency in the diet, such as nutrients lost to intestinal parasites. However, dietary deficiencies are the most probable cause.\n\nAnemia incidence may be a result of inequalities within society, and/or indicative of different work patterns and activities among different groups within society. A study of iron-deficiency among early Mongolian nomads showed that although overall rates of cribra orbitalia declined from 28.7 percent (27.8 percent of the total female population, 28.4 percent of the total male population, 75 percent of the total juvenile population) during the Bronze and Iron Ages, to 15.5 percent during the Hunnu (2209–1907 BP) period, the rate of females with cribra orbitalia remained roughly the same, while the incidence of cribra orbitalia among males and children declined (29.4 percent of the total female population, 5.3 percent of the total male population, and 25 percent of the juvenile population had cribra orbitalia). Bazarsad posits several reasons for this distribution of cribra orbitalia: adults may have lower rates of cribra orbitalia than juveniles because lesions either heal with age or lead to death. Higher rates of cribia orbitalia among females may indicate lesser health status, or greater survival of young females with cribia orbitalia into adulthood.\n\nHarris lines form before adulthood, when bone growth is temporarily halted or slowed down due to some sort of stress (either disease or malnutrition). During this time, bone mineralization continues, but growth does not, or does so at very reduced levels. If and when the stressor is overcome, bone growth will resume, resulting in a line of increased mineral density that will be visible in a radiograph. If there is not recovery from the stressor, no line will be formed.\n\nThe stress hormone cortisol is deposited in hair as it grows. This has been used successfully to detect fluctuating levels of stress in the later lifespan of mummies.\n\nExamining the effects that activities and workload has upon the skeleton allows the archaeologist to examine who was doing what kinds of labor, and how activities were structured within society. The division of labor within the household may be divided according to gender and age, or be based on other hierarchical social structures. Human remains can allow archaeologists to uncover patterns in the division of labor.\n\nLiving bones are subject to Wolff's law, which states that bones are physically affected and remodeled by physical activity or inactivity. Increases in mechanical stress tend to produce bones that are thicker and stronger. Disruptions in homeostasis caused by nutritional deficiency or disease or profound inactivity/disuse/disability can lead to bone loss. While the acquisition of bipedal locomotion and body mass appear to determine the size and shape of children's bones, activity during the adolescent growth period seems to exert a greater influence on the size and shape of adult bones than exercise later in life.\n\nMuscle attachment sites (also called entheses) have been thought to be impacted in the same way causing what were once called musculoskeletal stress markers, but now widely named entheseal changes. These changes were widely used to study activity-patterns, but research has shown that processes associated with aging have a greater impact than occupational stresses. It has also been shown that geometric changes to bone structure (described above) and entheseal changes differ in their underlying cause with the latter poorly affected by occupation. Joint changes, including osteoarthritis, have also been used to infer occupations but in general these are also manifestations of the aging process.\n\nMarkers of occupational stress, which include morphological changes to the skeleton and dentition as well as joint changes at specific locations have also been widely used to infer specific (rather than general) activities. Such markers are often based on single cases described in clinical literature in the late nineteenth century. One such marker has been found to be a reliable indicator of lifestyle: the external auditory exostosis also called surfer's ear, which is a small bony protuberance in the ear canal which occurs in those working in proximity to cold water.\n\nOne example of how these changes have been used to study activities is the New York African Burial Ground in New York. This provides evidence of the brutal working conditions under which the enslaved labored; osteoarthritis of the vertebrae was very common, even among the young. The pattern of osteoarthritis combined with the early age of onset provides evidence of labor that resulted in mechanical strain to the neck. One male skeleton shows stress lesions at 37 percent of 33 muscle or ligament attachments, showing he experienced significant musculoskeletal stress. Overall, the interred show signs of significant musculoskeletal stress and heavy workloads, although workload and activities varied among different individuals. Some individuals show high levels of stress, while others do not. This references the variety of types of labor (e.g., domestic vs. carrying heavy loads) labor that enslaved individuals were forced to perform.\n\nFractures to bones during or after excavation will appear relatively fresh, with broken surfaces appearing white and unweathered. Distinguishing between fractures around the time of death and post-depositional fractures in bone is difficult, as both types of fractures will show signs of weathering. Unless evidence of bone healing or other factors are present, researchers may choose to regard all weathered fractures as post-depositional.\n\nEvidence of perimortal fractures (or fractures inflicted on a fresh corpse) can be distinguished in unhealed metal blade injuries to the bones. Living or freshly dead bones are somewhat resilient, so metal blade injuries to bone will generate a linear cut with relatively clean edges rather than irregular shattering. Archaeologists have tried using the microscopic parallel scratch marks on cut bones in order to estimate the trajectory of the blade that caused the injury.\n\nDental caries, commonly referred to as cavities or tooth decay, are caused by localized destruction of tooth enamel, as a result of acids produced by bacteria feeding upon and fermenting carbohydrates in the mouth. Subsistence based upon agriculture is strongly associated with a higher rate of caries than subsistence based upon foraging, because of the higher levels of carbohydrates in diets based upon agriculture. For example, bioarchaeologists have used caries in skeletons to correlate a diet of rice and agriculture with the disease. Females may be more vulnerable to caries compared to men, due to lower saliva flow than males, the positive correlation of estrogens with increased caries rates, and because of physiological changes associated with pregnancy, such as suppression of the immune system and a possible concomitant decrease in antimicrobial activity in the oral cavity.\n\nStable isotope analysis of carbon and nitrogen in human bone collagen allows bioarchaeologists to carry out dietary reconstruction and to make nutritional inferences. These chemical signatures reflect long-term dietary patterns, rather than a single meal or feast. Stable isotope analysis monitors the ratio of carbon 13 to carbon 12 (C/C), which is expressed as parts per mil (per thousand) using delta notation (δC). The ratio of carbon isotopes varies according to the types of plants consumed with different photosynthesis pathways. The three photosynthesis pathways are C3 carbon fixation, C4 carbon fixation and Crassulacean acid metabolism. C4 plants are mainly grasses from tropical and subtropical regions, and are adapted to higher levels of radiation than C3 plants. Corn, millet and sugar cane are some well-known C4 domesticates, while all trees and shrubs use the C3 pathway. C3 plants are more common and numerous than C4 plants. Both types of plants occur in tropical areas, but only C3 plants occur naturally in colder areas. C and C occur in a ratio of approximately 98.9 to 1.1.\n\nThe C and C ratio is either depleted (more negative) or enriched (more positive) relative to the international standard, which is set to an arbitrary zero. The different photosynthesis pathways used by C3 and C4 plants cause them to discriminate differently towards C The C4 and C3 plants have distinctly different ranges of C; C4 plants range between -9 and -16 per mil, and C3 plants range between -22 to -34 per mil. δC studies have been used in North America to document the transition from a C3 to a C4 (native North American plants to corn) diet. The rapid and dramatic increase in C after the adoption of maize agriculture attests to the change in the southeastern American diet by 1300 CE.\n\nIsotope ratios in food, especially plant food, are directly and predictably reflected in bone chemistry, allowing researchers to partially reconstruct recent diet using stable isotopes as tracers.\nNitrogen isotopes (N and N) have been used to estimate the relative contributions of legumes verses nonlegumes, as well as terrestrial versus marine resources to the diet.\nThe increased consumption of legumes, or animals that eat them, causes N in the body to decrease. Nitrogen isotopes in bone collagen are ultimately derived from dietary protein, while carbon can be contributed by protein, carbohydrate, or fat in the diet. Compared to other plants, legumes have lower N/N ratios because they can fix molecular nitrogen, rather than having to rely on nitrates and nitrites in the soil. Legumes have δN values close to 0%, while other plants, which have δ15N values that range from 2 to 6%. Nitrogen isotope ratios can be used to index the importance of animal protein in the diet. N increases about 3-4% with each trophic step upward. N values increase with meat consumption, and decrease with legume consumption. The N/N ratio could be used to gauge the contribution of meat and legumes to the diet.\n\nSkeletons excavated from the Coburn Street Burial Ground (1750 to 1827 CE) in Cape Town, South Africa, were analyzed using stable isotope data by Cox \"et al.\" in order to determine geographical histories and life histories of the interred. The people buried in this cemetery were assumed to be slaves and members of the underclass based on the informal nature of the cemetery; biomechanical stress analysis and stable isotope analysis, combined with other archaeological data, seem to support this supposition.\n\nBased on stable isotope levels, eight Cobern Street Burial Ground individuals consumed a diet based on C4 (tropical) plants in childhood, then consumed more C3 plants, which were more common at the Cape later in their lives. Six of these individuals had dental modifications similar to those carried out by peoples inhabiting tropical areas known to be targeted by slavers who brought enslaved individuals from other parts of Africa to the colony. Based on this evidence, Cox \"et al\". argue that these individuals represent enslaved persons from areas of Africa where C4 plants are consumed and who were brought to the Cape as laborers. Cox \"et al\". do not assign these individuals to a specific ethnicity, but do point out that similar dental modifications are carried out by the Makua, Yao, and Marav peoples. Four individuals were buried with no grave goods, in accordance with Muslim tradition, facing Signal Hill, which is a point of significance for local Muslims. Their isotopic signatures indicate that they grew up in a temperate environment consuming mostly C3 plants, but some C4 plants. Many of the isotopic signatures of interred individuals indicate that they Cox \"et al\". argue that these individuals were from the Indian Ocean area. They also suggest that these individuals were Muslims. Cox \"et al\". argue that stable isotopic analysis of burials, combined with historical and archaeological data can be an effective way in of investigating the worldwide migrations forced by the African Slave Trade, as well as the emergence of the underclass and working class in the colonial Old World.\n\nStable isotope analysis of strontium and oxygen can also be carried out. The amounts of these isotopes vary in different geological locations. Because bone is a dynamic tissue that is remodeled over time, and because different parts of the skeleton are laid down at particular times over the course of a human life, stable isotope analysis can be used to investigate population movements in the past and indicate where people lived at various points of their lives.\n\naDNA analysis of past populations is used by archaeology to genetically determine the sex of individuals, determine genetic relatedness, understand marriage patterns, and investigate prehistoric population movements.\n\nAspects of the relationship between the physical body and socio-cultural conditions and practices can be recognized through the study of human remains. This is most often emphasized in a \"biocultural bioarchaeology\" model. It has often been the case that bioarchaeology has been regarded as a positivist, science-based discipline, while theories of the living body in the social sciences have been viewed as constructivist in nature. Physical anthropology and bioarchaeology have been criticized for having little to no concern for culture or history. Blakey has argued that scientific or forensic treatments of human remains from archaeological sites construct a view of the past that is neither cultural nor historic, and has suggested that a biocultural version of bioarchaeology will be able to construct a more meaningful and nuanced history that is more relevant to modern populations, especially descent populations. By biocultural, Blakey means a type of bioarchaeology that is not simply descriptive, but combines the standard forensic techniques of describing stature, sex and age with investigations of demography and epidemiology in order to verify or critique socioeconomic conditions experienced by human communities of the past.\n\nCurrently, some bioarchaeologists are coming to view the discipline as lying at a crucial interface between the science and the humanities; as the human body is non-static, and is constantly being made and re-made by both biological and cultural factors.\n\nBuikstra considers her work to be aligned with Blakey's biocultural version of bioarchaeology because of her emphasis on models stemming from critical theory and political economy. She acknowledges that scholars such as Larsen are productive, but points out that his is a different type of bioarchaeology that focuses on quality of life, lifestyle, behavior, biological relatedness, and population history. It does not closely link skeletal remains to their archaeological context, and is best viewed as a \"skeletal biology of the past.\"\n\nInequalities exist in all human societies, even so-called “egalitarian” ones. It is important to note that bioarchaeology has helped to dispel the idea that life for foragers of the past was “nasty, brutish and short”; bioarchaeological studies have shown that foragers of the past were often quite healthy, while agricultural societies tend to have increased incidence of malnutrition and disease. However, based on a comparison of foragers from Oakhurst to agriculturalists from K2 and Mapungubwe, Steyn believes that agriculturalists from K2 and Mapungubwe were not subject to the lower nutritional levels expected for this type of subsistence system.\nDanforth argues that more “complex” state-level societies display greater health differences between elites and the rest of society, with elites having the advantage, and that this disparity increases as societies become more unequal. Some status differences in society do not necessarily mean radically different nutritional levels; Powell did not find evidence of great nutritional differences between elites and commoners, but did find lower rates of anemia among elites in Moundville.\n\nAn area of increasing interest among bioarchaeologists interested in understanding inequality is the study of violence. Researchers analyzing traumatic injuries on human remains have shown that a person's social status and gender can have a significant impact on their exposure to violence. There are numerous researchers studying violence, exploring a range of different types of violent behavior among past human societies. Including intimate partner violence, child abuse, institutional abuse, torture, warfare, human sacrifice, and structural violence.\n\nThere are ethical issues with bioarchaeology that revolve around treatment and respect for the dead. Large-scale skeletal collections were first amassed in the US in the 19th century, largely from the remains of Native Americans. No permission was ever granted from surviving family for study and display. Recently, federal laws such as NAGPRA (Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act) have allowed Native Americans to regain control over the skeletal remains of their ancestors and associated artifacts in order to reassert their cultural identities.\n\nNAGPRA passed in 1990. At this time, many archaeologists underestimated the public perception of archaeologists as non-productive members of society and grave robbers. Concerns about occasional mistreatment of Native American remains are not unfounded: in a Minnesota excavation 1971, White and Native American remains were treated differently; remains of White people were reburied, while remains of Native American people were placed in cardboard boxes and placed in a natural history museum. Blakey relates the growth in African American bioarchaeology to NAGPRA and its effect of cutting physical anthropologist off from their study of Native American remains.\n\nBioarchaeology in Europe is not as affected by these repatriation issues as American bioarchaeology but regardless the ethical considerations associated with working with human remains are, and should, be considered. However, because much of European archaeology has been focused on classical roots, artifacts and art have been overemphasized and Roman and post-Roman skeletal remains were nearly completely neglected until the 1980s. Prehistoric archaeology in Europe is a different story, as biological remains began to be analyzed earlier than in classical archaeology.\n\n\n\nOrganizations\n\nJournals\n\nOther\n"}
{"id": "3993672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3993672", "title": "Cold War (1985–1991)", "text": "Cold War (1985–1991)\n\nThe Cold War period of 1985–1991 began with the rise of Mikhail Gorbachev as leader of the Soviet Union. Gorbachev was a revolutionary leader for the USSR, as he was the first to promote liberalization of the political landscape (Glasnost) and capitalist elements into the economy (Perestroika); prior to this, the USSR had been strictly prohibiting liberal reform and maintained an inefficient command economy. The USSR, despite facing massive economic difficulties, was involved in a costly arms race with the United States under President Ronald Reagan. Regardless, the USSR began to crumble as liberal reforms proved difficult to handle and capitalist changes to the economy were badly transitioned and caused major problems. The Cold War came to an end when the last war of Soviet occupation ended in Afghanistan, the Berlin Wall came down in Germany, and a series of mostly peaceful revolutions swept the Soviet Bloc states of eastern Europe in 1989.\n\nAfter the deaths of three successive elderly Soviet leaders since 1982, the Soviet Politburo elected Gorbachev Communist Party General Secretary in March 1985, marking the rise of a new generation of leadership. Under Gorbachev, relatively young reform-oriented technocrats, who had begun their careers in the heyday of \"de-Stalinization\" under reformist leader Nikita Khrushchev, rapidly consolidated power, providing new momentum for political and economic liberalization, and the impetus for cultivating warmer relations and trade with the West.\nOn the Western front, President Reagan's administration had taken a hard line against the Soviet Union. Under the Reagan Doctrine, the Reagan administration began providing military support to anti-communist armed movements in Afghanistan, Angola, Nicaragua and elsewhere.\n\nA major breakthrough came in 1985–87, with the successful negotiation of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty (INF). The INF Treaty of December 1987, signed by Reagan and Gorbachev, eliminated all nuclear and conventional missiles, as well as their launchers, with ranges of 500–1,000 kilometres (310–620 mi) (short-range) and 1,000–5,500 kilometres (620–3,420 mi) (intermediate-range). The treaty did not cover sea-launched missiles. By May 1991, after on-site investigations by both sides, 2,700 missiles had been destroyed.\n\nThe Reagan administration also persuaded the Saudi Arabian oil companies to increase oil production. This led to a three-times drop in the prices of oil, and oil was the main source of Soviet export revenues. Following the USSR's previous large military buildup, President Reagan ordered an enormous peacetime defense buildup of the United States Military; the Soviets did not respond to this by building up their military because the military expenses, in combination with collectivized agriculture in the nation, and inefficient planned manufacturing, would cause a heavy burden for the Soviet economy. It was already stagnant and in a poor state prior to the tenure of Mikhail Gorbachev who, despite significant attempts at reform, was unable to revitalise the economy. In 1985, Reagan and Gorbachev held their first of four \"summit\" meetings, this one in Geneva, Switzerland. After discussing policy, facts, etc., Reagan invited Gorbachev to go with him to a small house near the beach. The two leaders spoke in that house well over their time limit, but came out with the news that they had planned two more (soon three more) summits.\n\nThe second summit took place the following year, in 1986 on October 11, in Reykjavík, Iceland. The meeting was held to pursue discussions about scaling back their intermediate-range ballistic missile arsenals in Europe. The talks came close to achieving an overall breakthrough on nuclear arms control, but ended in failure due to Reagan's proposed Strategic Defense Initiative and Gorbachev's proposed cancellation of it. Nonetheless, cooperation continued to increase and, where it failed, Gorbachev reduced some strategic arms unilaterally.\n\nFundamental to the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the Gorbachev policy initiatives of Restructuring (\"Perestroika\") and Openness (\"Glasnost\") had ripple effects throughout the Soviet world, including eventually making it impossible to reassert central control over Warsaw Pact member states without resorting to military force.\n\nOn June 12, 1987, Reagan challenged Gorbachev to go further with his reforms and democratization by tearing down the Berlin Wall. In a speech at the Brandenburg Gate next to the wall, Reagan stated:\n\nWhile the aging communist European leaders kept their states in the grip of \"normalization\", Gorbachev's reformist policies in the Soviet Union exposed how a once revolutionary Communist Party had become moribund at the very center of the system. Facing declining revenues due to declining oil prices and rising expenditures related to the arms race and the command economy, the Soviet Union was forced during the 1980s to take on significant amounts of debt from the Western banking sector. The growing public disapproval of the Soviet–Afghan War, and the socio-political effects of the Chernobyl accident in Ukraine increased public support for these policies. By the spring of 1989, the USSR had not only experienced lively media debate, but had also held its first multi-candidate elections. For the first time in recent history, the force of liberalization was spreading from West to East.\n\nGrassroots organizations, such as Poland's Solidarity movement, rapidly gained ground with strong popular bases. In February 1989 the Polish government opened talks with opposition, known as the Polish Round Table Agreement, which allowed elections with participation of anti-Communist parties in June 1989. Also in 1989 the Communist government in Hungary started to negotiate organizing of competitive elections which took place in 1990. In Czechoslovakia and East Germany, mass protests unseated entrenched Communist leaders. The Communist regimes in Bulgaria and Romania also crumbled, in the latter case as the result of a violent uprising. Attitudes had changed enough that US Secretary of State James Baker suggested that the American government would not be opposed to Soviet intervention in Romania, on behalf of the opposition, to prevent bloodshed. The tidal wave of change culminated with the fall of the Berlin Wall in November 1989, which symbolized the collapse of European Communist governments and graphically ended the Iron Curtain divide of Europe.\n\nThe collapse of the European governments with Gorbachev's tacit consent inadvertently encouraged several Soviet republics to seek greater independence from Moscow's rule. Agitation for independence in the Baltic states led to first Lithuania, and then Estonia and Latvia, declaring their independence. Disaffection in the other republics was met by promises of greater decentralization. More open elections led to the election of candidates opposed to Communist Party rule.\n\nIn an attempt to halt the rapid changes to the system, a group of Soviet hard-liners represented by Vice-President Gennady Yanayev launched a coup overthrowing Gorbachev in August 1991. Russian President Boris Yeltsin rallied the people and much of the army against the coup and the effort collapsed. Although restored to power, Gorbachev's authority had been irreparably undermined. In September, the Baltic states were granted independence. On December 1, Ukraine withdrew from the USSR. On December 26, 1991 the USSR officially dissolved, breaking up into fifteen separate nations.\n\nAfter the end of the Revolutions of 1989, Gorbachev and President Bush Sr. met on the neutral island of Malta to discuss the events of the year, the withdrawal of the Soviet military from Eastern Europe, and the future course of their relationship. After their discussions, the two leaders publicly announced they would work together for German reunification, the normalization of relations, the resolution of Third World conflicts, and the promotion of peace and democracy (referred to by President Bush as a \"New World Order\".)\n\nBetween the Malta Summit and the Dissolution of the Soviet Union negotiations on several arms control agreements began, resulting in agreements such as START I and the Chemical Weapons Convention. Additionally, the United States, still believing the Soviet Union would continue to exist in the long term, began to take steps to create a positive long-term relationship.\n\nThis new relationship was demonstrated by the joint American-Soviet opposition to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. The Soviet Union voted in the United Nation's Security Council to authorize the use of military force against its former Middle Eastern ally.\n\nSeveral conflicts in third world nations (i.e. Cambodia, Angola, Nicaragua) related to the Cold War would come to an end during this era of cooperation, with both the Soviet Union and the United States working together to pressure their respective proxies to make peace with one another. Overall, this detente which accompanied the final twilight of the Cold War would help bring about a relatively more peaceful world.\n\nAs a consequence of the Revolutions of 1989 and the adoption of a foreign policy based on non-interference by the Soviet Union, the Warsaw Pact was dissolved and Soviet troops began withdrawing back to the Soviet Union, completing their withdrawal by the mid-1990s.\n\nThere is a fundamental difference in how former communist countries managed during the first quarter of the century after the collapse of the Soviet Union.\n\nCountries such as the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, and Slovakia experienced economic reconstruction, growth and fast integration with EU and NATO while their eastern neighbors usually created hybrids of free market oligarchy system, post-communist corrupted administration and dictatorship. The territory behind the EU and NATO borders gradually to a greater or lesser extent returned to economic and military dependency on Russia.\n\nRussia and the other Soviet successor states have faced a chaotic and harsh transition from a command economy to free market capitalism following the dissolution of the Soviet Union. A large percentage of the population currently lives in poverty. GDP growth also declined, and life expectancy dropped sharply. Living conditions also declined in some other parts of the former Eastern bloc.\nIn addition, the poverty and desperation of the Russians, Ukrainians and allies of post–Cold War have led to the sale of many advanced Cold War-developed weapons systems, especially very capable modern upgraded versions, around the globe. World-class tanks (T-80/T-84), jet fighters (MiG-29 and Su-27/30/33), surface-to-air missile systems (S-300P, S-300V, 9K332 and Igla) and others have been placed on the market in order to obtain some much-needed cash. This poses a possible problem for western powers in coming decades as they increasingly find hostile countries equipped with weapons which were designed by the Soviets to defeat them. The post–Cold War era saw a period of unprecedented prosperity in the West, especially in the United States, and a wave of democratization throughout Latin America, Africa, and Central, South-East and Eastern Europe.\n\nSociologist Immanuel Wallerstein expresses a less triumphalist view, arguing that the end of the Cold War is a prelude to the breakdown of \"Pax Americana\". In his essay \"\"Pax Americana\" is Over,\" Wallerstein argues, “The collapse of communism in effect signified the collapse of liberalism, removing the only ideological justification behind US hegemony, a justification tacitly supported by liberalism’s ostensible ideological opponent.”\n\nSome historians, including professor of history John Lewis Gaddis, argue that Reagan combined a policy of militancy and operational pragmatism to bring about the most significant improvement in Soviet-American relations since the end of World War II. This bloc, known as the ‘Reagan Victory School’ constitutes a different historiographical perspective to the end of the Cold War.\n\nSpace exploration has petered out in both the United States and Russia without the competitive pressure of the space race. Military decorations have become more common, as they were created, and bestowed, by the major powers during the near 50 years of undeclared hostilities.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4799837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4799837", "title": "Criminal Investigation Task Force", "text": "Criminal Investigation Task Force\n\nThe Criminal Investigation Task Force (CITF) is an organization created in early 2002 by the United States Department of Defense to conduct investigations of detainees captured in the War on Terrorism. It was envisioned that certain captured individuals would be tried by a military tribunal for war crimes and/or acts of terrorism.\n\nCITF was initially activated in February 2002 under a mandate from the Secretary of Defense addressed to the Secretary of the Army. The Secretary of the Army formally tasked the US Army Criminal Investigation Command (CID), and CID activated the Criminal Investigation Task Force solely for the purpose of conducting criminal investigations against suspected terrorists detained by US forces. Under the Secretary of Defense directive, the Army was directed to maximize the capabilities of all the Services, and therefore coordinated with the US Air Force and US Navy to assist. The CITF included members from four of five of the branches of the U.S. armed forces; Army Criminal Investigation Division (CID), the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS), the United States Marine Corps Criminal Investigation Division (USMC CID), and the U.S. Air Force Office of Special Investigations (OSI). Other personnel for the CITF came from military intelligence and support organizations. From time to time, liaison personnel and others from Federal Law Enforcement and other government agencies were attached to the CITF. An element from the CITF was initially deployed to Afghanistan with the goal of identifying captured terrorists, and to collect evidence for use in Military Commissions. Suspected terrorists were temporarily held at the Kandahar or Bagram Dentention Facilities. Another element of the CITF was deployed to US Naval Base, Gunatanamo Bay, Cuba. After the invasion of Iraq, CITF deployed yet another element to Iraq, initially to prepare for the possible transfer of detainees in Iraq to Guantanamo. Later, CITF began to collect evidence for use in the Central Criminal Court of Iraq. CITF also maintained its role in military operations by assisting Special Operations Command (SOCOM) with forensic evidence collection. In military, and law enforcement agencies, \"Task Forces\" are temporary organizations created to conduct a specialized mission or task. Members of \"Joint Task Forces\" are drawn from many different units. However, the CITF was never formally given the designation of a \"Joint Task Force.\"\n\nThe CITF has operated worldwide and by 2005 had conducted over 1500 investigations and 10,000 interviews, and collected large amounts of evidence both in places where persons were captured and elsewhere. The results of CITF investigations has been used in military commissions (tribunals) at the Guantánamo Bay detainment camp and other legal proceedings in Afghanistan and Iraq.. The CITF has provided evidence to Iraqi Courts to prosecute insurgents and foreign fighters captured in Iraq for crimes there, and has assisted other US and international law enforcement agencies.\n\nAs a result of widespread criticism of reported human rights abuses at Guantanamo and in Afghanistan, Iraq, and elsewhere, most notably the Iraq prison abuse scandals, including torture and abuse at Abu Ghraib and Bagram, a great deal of media and public attention was given to the methods used by the CITF and other U.S. military and civilian agencies in interrogations and other activities.\n\nSenior law enforcement agents with the CITF told msnbc.com in 2006 that they began to complain to Department of Defense officials in 2002 that the interrogation tactics used by a separate team of intelligence investigators were unproductive, not likely to produce reliable information, and probably illegal. Unable to achieve a satisfactory response from the U.S. Army commanders in charge of the detainee camp, they took their concerns to both the Army Criminal Investigation Command under General Donald Ryder, and the Naval Criminal Investigative Service under David Brant. Brant alerted Alberto J. Mora, the general counsel for the Navy. The first commander of the CITF was Colonel (now retired) Brittain Mallow, and his Deputy was Special Agent Mark Fallon. Their names have been in several articles and also mentioned during Congressional testimony.\n\nSome copies of government documents detailing CITF policies and practices have become publicly available through after the American Civil Liberties Union filed a Freedom of Information Act request and subsequently a lawsuit. There have been numerous discussions in congress and in the press and online regarding the differences between the CITF and other law enforcement methods, and those of the intelligence organizations involved with detainees. The CITF staff by all reports appear to have used only non-coercive, non-torturous methods in questioning detainees.\n\n"}
{"id": "53867083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53867083", "title": "Curse on This Country", "text": "Curse on This Country\n\nCurse on This Country: The Rebellious Army of Imperial Japan is a 2016 history book by Danny Orbach, a professor at Hebrew University in Jerusalem. It deals with a variety of rebellions by the Imperial military though the 19th and early 20th century. It argues that a culture of disobedience and rebellion existed in the Japanese army, deriving from the tradition of the shishi (warriors of high aspirations), rebellious samurai active in the 1860s. It preserved itself and expanded over decades, due to political conditions, historical circumstances and the institutional development of the Imperial Japanese Army. It was fed by enduring leniency to right-wing rebels as long as their motives were \"pure\".\n\nThe book is tracing this culture of military insubordination through its earliest manifestations, exploring such incidents as the Taiwan Expedition (1874), the Satsuma Rebellion (1877), and the assassinations of Queen Min (1895) and Zhang Zuolin (1928), as well as terrorist activities of group such as the Cherry Blossom Society (1931) and the Young Officers Movement (1936). Finally, it argues that the Japanese Army's culture of disobedience helped to push the country towards unbridled imperialism, entanglement in China and finally the Pacific War.\n\n"}
{"id": "21015182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21015182", "title": "Desanka Kovačević-Kojić", "text": "Desanka Kovačević-Kojić\n\nDesanka Kovačević-Kojić (Serbian Cyrillic: Десанка Ковачевић-Којић) is a Serbian historian, a specialist in the medieval history of Serbia and Bosnia, and in particular urban history, trade and commercial relations. Born on October 3, 1925, in Sarajevo, then a part of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes, she escaped from Sarajevo in 1993 after the civil war started and settled in Belgrade, where she is today a member of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts. Before the civil war in Bosnia, she was elected a member of ANUBiH.\n\nDesanka Kovačević-Kojić studied history at the University of Belgrade Faculty of Philosophy, graduating in 1950. She was professor at the University of Sarajevo, and since 1993 has worked in the Institute for History in Belgrade. With Radovan Samardžić, during the 1960s she spent a year in Paris, specializing in history at the seminary of Fernand Braudel. She has published several monographs and more than a hundred studies and articles in the Serbian and French languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15807290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15807290", "title": "Det Dramatiske Selskab", "text": "Det Dramatiske Selskab\n\nDet Dramatiske Selskab is the name for several Norwegian amateur theatre drama troupes. These troupes were the first permanent theatre troupes in the cities of Norway. The period between 1780–1830 is described by many as \"the age of the dramatic companies\".\n\nThe amateur theatre companies of Det Dramatiske Selskap founded the first theatres and gave the first regular performances in Norwegian cities. Previously, Norway was visited by travelling foreign troupes which performed in temporary structures. However, the theatres run by the amateur troupes of Det Dramatiske Selskap were not public theatres, but private.\n\nAn amateur theatre performed in the city is recorded in 1765. Founded in Oslo in 1780, it gave the first regular theatre performances in Norway. On 24 October 1780, they performed \"The coffeehouse or the Scottish woman\" by Voltaire translated by Ditlevine Feddersen starring Henriette Mathiesen (Lindane) and Envold Falsen (Frelon). \n\nThey performed first in Gevæxthuset, a concert house from the 1760s by Grændsehaven and, from 1802, in Dramatiken, beside the Centralteatret\n\nThey replaced the temporary theatre staged by Martin Nürenbach in the city 1771–1772, and was in turn replaced by the theatre of Johan Peter Strömberg in 1827, the Christiania Offentlige Theater, which was the origin of the first Norwegian national theatre, Christiania Theatre.\n\nFounded in 1787 by Henrik Arnold Thaulow, Nicolai Emanuel de Thygeson, and Nicolai Wergeland (father of Henrik Wergeland and Camilla Collett). \n\nTheir first theatre burned down in 1892, and the second was torn down in 1966. It is now counted as the first amateur theatre in Norway, and is located at Agder Theater.\n\nEstablished in 1794 alongside Det Harmoniske Selskab (founded in 1765), it soon became more independent of it and popular. \n\nFrom 1800 it had its own theatre building, Komediehuset på Engen, until 1828; this theatre was later to be the first public theatre in Bergen, when it, after Det Dramatiske Selskap had left in 1828, became the first travelling professional Danish theatre troupe, and, in 1850, it came to Den Nationale Scene, the first public theatre in Bergen. The building was burnt after the bombardment of 15 June 1940.\n\nThe Dramatic company of Arendal was founded in 1796 and performed in Comediehuset of Arendal, a building that it owns. They are still active.\n\nFounded in 1801.\n\nFounded in 1802 and performed in their own theatre building from 1816. In 1861, they gave the use of their theatre house to the first permanent theatre of the city, the Throndhjems Theater.\n\nFounded in 1810.\n\nFounded in 1819.\n\nFounded in 1823.\n\nFounded in 1825.\n\nFounded in 1830.\n\nFounded in 1832.\n\nFounded in 1839.\n\n"}
{"id": "53615692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53615692", "title": "Doreen Kartinyeri", "text": "Doreen Kartinyeri\n\nDoreen Kartinyeri (3 February 1935–2 December 2007) was an Ngarrindjeri elder and historian, born in the Australian state of South Australia. She played a key role in the Hindmarsh Bridge controversy and made many contributions to Indigenous activism.\n\nDoreen Kartinyeri was born on 3 February 1935, in the Point MacLeay Aboriginal Reserve in South Australia to parents Thelma Kartinyeri and Oswald (Oscar) Kartinyeri. She had two sisters, Doris and Nancy, and one brother, Ron. However, Doris was the only sibling that Doreen maintained contact with as Ron was in prison and Nancy died on the operating table when getting her tonsils out. Doreen struggled with authority for most of her life. This struggle began when she was only a child, right after her mother died. Doreen and her newborn sister, Doris, were placed in different childcare institutions. In an interview on ABC radio with Mike Sexton in 2007, Doreen discussed this experience, saying: “I said I want to know where Doris is, what did you do with her, she's not in the home, someone took her. I didn't really know where she was, we didn't, I was only 13, just turned 13.” As the interview continued, Doreen continued to reveal her passionate, stubborn and argumentative nature, describing herself as “a fiery girl who talked too much”. She mentioned a particular time when she was trying to see her sister, Doris. “All right,” Doreen said, “so I just kicked my shoes off, climbed the top of the wall, and said, ‘if you don't tell me I'm going to jump,’ so she told me where Doris was.”\n\nDoreen’s education began in her hometown, at the Raukkan Mission School. Doreen said that she did not like her teacher at this school because he was “too strict”. After the death of her mother, Doreen was, unwillingly, moved to the Salvation Army Home in Fullarton, on the condition that she would stay with her sister, Doris. Coincidentally, this was a lie - Doris did not go with Doreen to Fullarton, but was instead sent to the Colebrook Home at Eden Hills. Doreen said that the conditions of this institution were “military style”, claiming that she was beaten on her first night for swearing. Doreen did not do well in school - she was rebellious, was punished often, performed poorly, often did not do work, and when she did, teachers accused her of cheating. During her time at school, Doreen found enjoyment in going to the pool and seeing boys. Often Doreen would get into mischief with the other nunga (Aboriginal) girls, and Doreen claimed that they were often the scapegoats for the white girls (herself especially). Later on, Doreen was expelled for getting into a fight with girls who were bullying a disabled girl. From there, she never continued her formal education but she did go on to win many honorary academic awards and has since received lots of praise for her academic work.\n\nAfter being expelled from Fullarton in 1949, Kartinyeri believed she was being sent back home to Raukkan; however, to her surprise she was sent to Joan and George Dunn’s house in the Adelaide Hills to work as a domestic servant for the next two years. After the initial shock had subdued, Doreen settled well into life at Adelaide Hills and came to love and respect Joan and George.\n\nAfter her two years with the Dunns were complete, Doreen was offered another position, working for the Motterams, who lived in the Adelaide suburb of Kings Park. Having known the Motterams as friends of the Dunns and liking them, she accepted the job. While working there, Doreen did few physical or taxing tasks, describing her main purpose as keeping Mrs Motterham company which was easy because she had a “good sense of humour and was very easy going.”\n\nAt the age of 15, Doreen returned to Raukkan to care for her sick grandmother. She took up a position as a domestic servant for the superintendent of the mission, where her small wages went to supporting her grandparents who weren’t entitled to a pension because of their indigenous status.\n\nAt the age of 16, Doreen had her first experience as a full-time foster mother, taking care of her cousins and her cousin’s children. Finding motherhood exhausting, Doreen went back to working domestically, taking a job at the Maitland Hotel. Deciding that caring for grandmother back home was too stressful, Doreen left Raukkan and took up work sorting grapes at Barmera.\n\nDoreen played a significant and controversial role in the Hindmarsh Island Bridge Affair in the 1990s. All of her prior research sparked her passionate and argumentative side in 1993, when the South Australian State Government put forward a proposal to build a bridge between Hindmarsh Island and Goolwa. Doreen quickly became a key figure in the movement against this proposal, saying that Hindmarsh Island was sacred land, particularly for Indigenous women, for reasons which her and her group would not disclose. In early 1994, Doreen’s group were successful in their application to the Federal Government to gain a heritage order to prohibit the bridge being built. However, in 1995, the Royal Commission conducted an investigation into Doreen’s movement and concluded that their “indigenous women” argument was fabricated. In addition, several Ngarrindjeri (the women native to Hindmarsh Island), said that they knew nothing of the spiritual importance that Doreen was talking about. Furthermore, in March 1996, the Howard Government re-approved the plans for the bridge and in the year 2000, it was built. During this time, there was lots of debate and discussion as to whether Doreen and her group were telling the truth or not. Doreen always maintained her passion and that what she was saying was true and as a result, she bore the brunt of the criticism and debate.\n\nFinally, in 2010, the South Australian government recognised the honesty of Doreen and her group, formally acknowledging that \"women members of the Ngarrindjeri traditional owners were genuine in the mid-1990s when they said that the construction of the bridge would violate their most sacred beliefs.\" Years later, in an interview on ABC radio with Mike Sexton in 2007, Doreen described her position on this ordeal, saying: \"If I was a destructive person I would have went and blown it up, and that's the truth. I would have went and blown it up, but I hate destroying things.\" Mike Sexton went on to say that \"She was defiant to the end. A decade after the phrase 'secret women's business' entered the Australian vernacular, Doreen Kartinyeri maintained her rage against the bridge at Hindmarsh Island.\"\n\nHer mother Thelma Kartinyeri was classified as a 'quarter caste' Aboriginal woman. She was highly religious and wove baskets, knitted, crocheted and made clothes out of rags.\n\nThelma continued to help people and soon became a member of the Red Cross where she cooked food and sent it to needy families. Her youngest daughter died on the operating table whilst she was getting her tonsils taken out. Soon after this occurred, she had another daughter named Doris. Thelma died within a month of giving birth, due to complications following the birth. Doreen was only ten at the time, and had described the early death as one of the most traumatic experiences of her life.\n\nBoth mother and father had spent their days at Raukkan. Under the official classificatory system, Oswald (Oscar) Kartinyeri was considered as a 'full blood' Aboriginal. After the death of Thelma, the police took custody of Doris. He was described to be 'beside himself'. Doreen recalled her father travelling to Victoria to search for her. She also claimed that when he finally returned he was tired and dirty. As he grew old, Doreen and Terry had brought him up to live with them in Point Pearce. Oscar died in 1979 of a heart attack.\n\nDoreen married and had children with Terry Wanganeen, first meeting at Pearce Point when Doreen was visiting her Aunt Rose. Doreen became pregnant in 1954, leading to the decision for her and Terry to get married and move to Point Pearce together. Her relationship with Terry, who was heavily reliant on alcohol, and very violent and abusive when under the influence, was unstable. Both parties were hostile to one another, and their marriage was often unhappy. There was one particular instance when Terry threw a leg of lamb at the door because it was under-cooked, causing Doreen to become so angry that she broke a glass bottle and stabbed him in retaliation. Upon arrival to the hospital, authorities gave Doreen two choices for her consequence: she could either plead guilty to attempted murder or spend six weeks in a psychiatric hospital. She chose to be admitted into psychiatric care. When she returned, Terry’s attitude had drastically changed. However, Doreen still came to the conclusion that their marriage was effectively over, and she moved to Adelaide.\n\nDoreen became a full-time foster mother for her cousins at the age of 16. She also took care of her cousins’ children whilst she was pregnant. She described this experience as exhausting. She fell pregnant in 1954 and gave birth to a boy later that year in December. Her baby had died from an unknown illness at 7 months. She described his death as “one of the most traumatic experiences” in her life, the other being the early death of her mother. During baby Terry’s death, she fell pregnant again. Due to the death of her first born, she was terrified at the loss of another baby, so she considered inducing a miscarriage. From 1955 to 1699, she had given birth to six more sons and two daughters. She described the birth of her children as the “best thing that ever happened”.\n\nShe was living in Point Pierce with her family when she started to examine the histories and genealogies of the indigenous people in the Point Pierce and Point MacLeay area (and she discovered that most Aboriginals in this area were lost during colonisation. From this research, Doreen went on to write and successfully publish several books on the Indigenous people of this area, which led to her being awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of Adelaide and given a job offer from the South Australian museum in their Aboriginal Family History Unit.\n\nIn 1994, Doreen was named the South Australian Aboriginal of Year, and a year later she was awarded an Honorary Doctorate from the University of South Australia in recognition of her genealogical work.\n\nKartinyeri died in the early morning hours of 2 December 2007, after battling stomach cancer and other illnesses. She was 72.\n\n"}
{"id": "55893520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55893520", "title": "Dorothy Goebel", "text": "Dorothy Goebel\n\nDorothy Goebel (24 August 1898 – 12 March 1976) was an American historian of the United States.\n\nDorothy Burne Goebel was born in Huntington, New York on 24 August 1898. She was a member of Phi Beta Kappa at Barnard College where she received her A.B. in 1920. Two years later she earned her M.A. from Columbia University and received her Ph.D. in 1926 from the same institution while serving as an assistant and lecturer at Barnard. That same year Goebel became an instructor at Hunter College in New York City. She was promoted to professor and served as chairman of the department from 1942 to 1948 and from 1961 to 1962, before retiring in 1963. Goebel died on 12 March 1976 in her home town.\n\nBy herself, Goebel published \"William Henry Harrison\" in 1926 and \"American Foreign Policy: The Documentary Record, 1776–1960\" in 1961. She frequently collaborated with her husband, the legal historian Julius Goebel, Jr., assisting him with the research for his 1928 book, \"Some Legal and Political Aspects of the Manors of New York\". Together they wrote \"General in the White House\" in 1945 and Goebel became associate editor of the \"Law Practice of Alexander Hamilton: Documents and Commentary\" in 1963, which was edited by her husband.\n"}
{"id": "34607141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34607141", "title": "Fred Hall-Jones", "text": "Fred Hall-Jones\n\nFrederick George \"Fred\" Hall-Jones (4 July 1891 – 28 January 1982) was a New Zealand lawyer, historian and community leader. He was born in Scarborough just south of Timaru, South Canterbury, New Zealand on 4 July 1891. He was the son of William Hall-Jones.\n\nHe was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in the 1957 Queen's Birthday Honours, for services in community affairs and as an historian in Southland. His son, John Hall-Jones, was an otolaryngologist (i.e. a doctor who specialised in the ear, nose, and throat or ENT region), author and historian of southern New Zealand.\n\n"}
{"id": "29950231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29950231", "title": "Gregory of Caergwent", "text": "Gregory of Caergwent\n\nGregory of Caergwent or Winchester (fl. 1270) was a British monk and historian.\n\nGregory entered Gloucester Abbey, according to his own account, on 29 October 1237, and is stated to have lived there for 60 years. He wrote the annals of his monastery from 682 to 1290, a work which has only survived in an epitome made by Lawrence Nowell. It consists almost entirely of obits and of notices relating to events which concerned his own monastery or the town of Gloucester; but in the early part it includes matter which is not contained in the \"Historia S. Petri Gloucestriæ\", printed in the Rolls Series. His compilation is thought to have been a source for Walter Froucester's later revision of the Gloucester chronicle.\n\nA Gregory of Karewent was dean of the arches in 1279; for the same year the livings of Tetbury, Gloucestershire, and Blockley, Worcestershire, are mentioned as vacant through the death of Gregory de Kerewent. A Philip de Kayrwent was prior of Gloucester in 1284, and Richard de Kayrwent was infirmarer in 1275 and 1284. Gregory has also been supposed to be the author of the \"Metrical Life\" of St. Hugh of Lincoln; but this is scarcely probable, since that poem appears to have been written before 1235. The Laudian MS., however, seems to contain a later edition, and ascribes the poem to a Gregory who had dedicated it to a bishop of Winchester, and it is therefore possible that the writer may have been the reviser of the older poem.\n\n"}
{"id": "42924214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42924214", "title": "Haydée Santamaría", "text": "Haydée Santamaría\n\nHaydée Santamaría Cuadrado (Villa Clara, December 30, 1922 – Havana, July 28, 1980) was a Cuban revolutionary and politician, regarded as a heroine in post-revolutionary Cuba. She participated in the assault on Moncada Barracks in Santiago de Cuba on July 26, 1953, an action for which she was imprisoned along with Melba Hernández. She was a founding member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Cuba. and one of the first women to join the PCC. She maintained a high position in its leadership throughout her life. Having participated in the attack on the Moncada Barracks, Haydée Santamaría is among a relatively small group of people who were involved in every phase of the Cuban Revolution, from its inception to its fruition.\n\nHaydée Santamaría was born to Spanish immigrants Joaquina Cuadrado and Abel Benigno Santamaría on December 30, 1922, in Encrucijada, Cuba, on the Constancia sugar refinery. The eldest among five children, she and her siblings Aida, Abel, Aldo, and Ada were raised in a petite bourgeois family that emigrated from Galicia, Spain to Cuba in the area formerly known as Las Villas Province. She only attended school until the sixth grade, which was not uncommon due to poverty and customs regarding gender; however she repeated the sixth grade 3-4 times before leaving school, exhibiting an appreciation of reading and learning. In school, she was introduced to important writers, among them Jose Marti—an important figure of Cuban literature and a national symbol of independence.\n\nAfter trying to become a nurse and working as a teacher for a short time, Haydée Santamaría was able to leave the trappings of her conservative family behind, joining her brother, Abel Santamaría, in Havana, Cuba in the early 1950s. It was in Havana at this time that she started meeting Abel’s comrades, chief among them Fidel Castro. Haydée Santamaría and Melba Hernandez were the only two women to directly participate in the assault on the Moncada Barracks of July 26, 1953. Her roles during, leading up to, and following July 26, 1953 included acquiring and transporting weapons, being involved in the organization of the revolutionary organization of the July 26th Movement, as well as helping to assemble the urban uprising of November 30, 1956 in Santiago de Cuba alongside Frank País and Celia Sánchez.\n\nDuring her imprisonment after the Moncada assault, the guards allegedly brought her the bleeding eye of her brother, Abel Santamaría and threatened to tear out the other. They also brought her the mangled testicle of her then fiancé, Boris Luis Santa Coloma. Her response was: “If you did that to them and they didn't talk, much less will I.” Both Abel and Boris died after the assault of the Moncada Barracks. \nAfter her release she helped to found the 26th of July Movement, joining the guerrilla forces led by Fidel Castro and Che Guevara in the Sierra Maestra mountains. The speech History Will Absolve Me was converted into a written manifesto by Fidel Castro using lemon juice to write between the lines of letters during his imprisonment after the assault on the Moncada Barracks. The manifesto was disseminated by Haydée Santamaría and Melba Hernandez after their release from prison. They assumed responsibility for smuggling out the speech in sections, raising money to print them, and distributing ten thousand copies throughout Cuba with the help of Natalia Revuelta and Lidia Castro, building the mythic reputation and de facto leadership of Fidel Castro. On September 4, 1958, Fidel Castro established the Mariana Grajales Platoon, an all-women’s battalion for the rebel army, and Fidel Castro’s personal security detail. Haydée Santamaría was a member of the Marianas during the war, fighting in the mountains of the Sierra Maestra.\n\nAfter the Cuban Revolution in 1959, she founded the cultural institution Casa de las Américas, and remained its director for two decades. This was a bold institution that gave voice to the work of Latin American dissidents, and it continues today. As well as literature, the institution brought innovative music, painting and theatre to the Cuban people. Haydée Santamaría’s unique role within the Casa de las Americas allowed her to practice internationalism in the face of the United States embargo against Cuba, creating a space for artists and intellectuals from around the world to meet and collaborate in Cuba. Her support of artistry and her dedication to the spirit of revolution helped her foster many intimate relationships with different artists. It was with the exposure at the Casa de las Americas, and support from Santamaría, that Silvio Rodriguez was able to start the Nueva Trova \"New Song Movement\" (Nueva canción) in post-revolutionary Cuba. In an earlier letter written by Ernesto “Che” Guevara to Haydée Santamaría, he alludes to her cultural achievements, and then chooses to recall a specific incident in the mountains of the Sierra Maestra:\n\"I see that you have become a literati with the power of creation, but I will confess that how I most like you is on that day in the New Year, with all your fuses blown and firing cannons on all sides.”\nHer commitment to the cultural development of Cuba allowed her to meet many new and interesting people, but she was to be plagued by the tragic losses of her loved ones to the end of her life.\n\nDepression ran in her family and it severely affected her to the end of her life. Often she spent days in bed while in depressive episodes. She eventually married Armando Hart and had two children with him, Cuban writer Celia Hart and her brother Abel Hart. They also took in many children and managed their own type of orphanage. After two decades of marriage, Armando and Haydée ended up separated. Haydée Santamaría committed suicide at the age of fifty-seven in the home she and her children shared on July 28, 1980, two days after the 27th anniversary of the attack on the Moncada Barracks. The fact of her suicide was problematic within Cuba and, some have speculated, the reason she was not mourned in the Plaza de la Revolución, but rather was given the burial of an ordinary citizen in Havana, Cuba. Haydée Santamaría’s death followed six months after the death of her close friend Celia Sanchez from lung cancer, and several months after a car accident left her in chronic pain. The events of the Cuban Revolution left an indelible mark on her, causing her to lose many people to whom she was close, and ultimately contributing to the lifelong depression from which she suffered. In a letter published by Casa de las Americas in 1968, she wrote to Che Guevara after his death:\n\"Fourteen years ago I saw the most intensely beloved human beings die—I think that I have already lived too much. The sun is not as beautiful, I don’t feel pleasure in seeing the palm trees. Sometimes, like now, in spite of enjoying life so much, knowing that it is worth opening one’s eyes every morning if only for those two things, I have the desire to keep them closed, like you.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36065747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36065747", "title": "Irmen culture", "text": "Irmen culture\n\nIrmen culture is an indigenous Late Bronze Age culture of animal breeders in the steppe and forest steppe area of the Ob river middle course, north of Altai in western Siberia, dated to around the 9th to 8th centuries BCE. Monuments of this advanced bronze-producing culture include numerous settlements and kurgan cemeteries, the culture was named after Irmen kurgan cemetery now flooded by Novosibirsk reservoir. Irmen culture was discovered and described by N.L.Chlenova in 1970.\n\nIrmen culture period is noted for migrationary waves in two directions, in the beginning of 1st millennium BCE from south from the Karasuk culture, and later in the 1st millennium BCE of northern tribes notable for their cross-decorated ceramics. Migrations raised military tensions, noted in emergence of first fortified settlements with moats and ramparts.\n\nThe mainstay of the Irmen economy was extensive animal husbandry. Stationary houses of Irmen people were large, sometimes exceeding . Villages had several such large dwellings. Next to houses were found large deposits of ash.\n\nIrmen people buried their deceased by inhumation in kurgan cemeteries, with up to 17 predominantly oriented SW graves in a single kurgan, bodies in crouched position, except when inhumation was conducted after ground thawed or bodies were first exposed, and bone remains were mixed. Kurgans were encircled by sometimes rectangular trenches open at the entrance, deposits include vessels and animal bones of funeral feasts. Individual graves were framed with wooden logs, covered by logs laid across. Accompanying inventory furnished ceramic vessels with food, darts with bronze heads, knives, deceased wore bronze jewelry ornaments of earrings, pendants, bead necklaces. Irmen dishes are of household and finery type with geometric ornament and rounded bottoms, finery dishes have mostly flat bottom. Ornamentation of finery dishes is much closer to the Karasuk vessels than of the household ceramics, but ornamentation is similar for both groups.\n\nIn general, migration wave of Andronovo cultural-historical community tribes, where their physical type (anthropologically ascended to the Southern Eurasian Anthropological Formation), conflated with local tribes (anthropologically ascended to the Northern Eurasian Anthropological Formation) and went on ethnogenesis of the Andronoid cultures. The phenotype features of Irmen people are distinctive, they developed from the local Eneolithic culture, in its formation participated Caucasoid population of Eastern Mediterranean type, migrants from Central Asia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1631693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1631693", "title": "Joe Medicine Crow", "text": "Joe Medicine Crow\n\nJoseph Medicine Crow (October 27, 1913 – April 3, 2016) was a war chief, author, and historian of the Crow Nation of Native Americans. His writings on Native American history and reservation culture are considered seminal works, but he is best known for his writings and lectures concerning the Battle of the Little Bighorn in 1876. He received the Bronze Star Medal and the Légion d'honneur for service during World War II, and the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2009.\n\nHe was the last surviving war chief of the Crow Nation and the last living Plains Indian war chief. He was a founding member of the Traditional Circle of Indian Elders and Youth.\n\nJoseph Medicine Crow (his Crow name meant High Bird) was born in 1913 on the Crow Indian Reservation near Lodge Grass, Montana, to Amy Yellowtail and Leo Medicine Crow. As the Crow kinship system was matrilineal, he was considered born for his mother's people, and gained his social status from that line. Property and hereditary positions were passed through the maternal line. Chief Medicine Crow, Leo's father, was a highly distinguished and honored chief in his own right, who at the age of 22 became a war chief. He set a standard for aspiring warriors and was his son's inspiration.\n\nHis maternal step-grandfather, White Man Runs Him, was a scout for US General George Armstrong Custer and an eyewitness to the Battle of the Little Bighorn in 1876. Joe Medicine Crow's cousin is Pauline Small, the first woman elected to office in the Crow Tribe of Indians.\n\nWhen he was young, Medicine Crow heard direct oral testimony about the Battle of the Little Bighorn in 1876 from his step-grandfather, White Man Runs Him, who had been a scout for General George Armstrong Custer.\n\nBeginning in 1929, when he was in eighth grade, Medicine Crow attended Bacone College in Muskogee, Oklahoma, which also had preparatory classes for students of high school age. He studied until he completed an Associate of Arts degree in 1936. He went on to study sociology and psychology for his bachelor's degree from Linfield College in 1938. He earned a master's degree in anthropology from the University of Southern California in Los Angeles in 1939; he was the first member of the Crow tribe to obtain a master's degree. His thesis, \"The Effects of European Culture Contact upon the Economic, Social, and Religious Life of the Crow Indians\", has become a well-respected work about Crow culture. He began work toward a doctorate, and by 1941 had completed the required coursework. He did not complete his Ph.D., due to the United States' entry into World War II.\n\nMedicine Crow taught at Chemawa Indian School for a year in 1941, then took a defense industry job in the shipyards of Bremerton, Washington in 1942.\n\nAfter spending the latter half of 1942 working in the naval ship yards in Bremerton, Washington, Medicine Crow joined the U.S. Army in 1943. He became a scout in the 103rd Infantry Division, and fought in World War II. Whenever he went into battle, he wore his war paint (two red stripes on his arms) beneath his uniform and a sacred yellow painted eagle feather, provided by a \"sundance\" medicine man, beneath his helmet.\n\nMedicine Crow completed all four tasks required to become a war chief: touching an enemy without killing him (counting coup), taking an enemy's weapon, leading a successful war party, and stealing an enemy's horse. He touched a living enemy soldier and disarmed him after turning a corner and finding himself face to face with a young German soldier:\n\nHe also led a successful war party and stole fifty horses owned by the Nazi SS from a German camp singing a traditional Crow honor song as he rode off.\n\nMedicine Crow is the last member of the Crow tribe to become a war chief. He was interviewed and appeared in the 2007 Ken Burns PBS series \"The War,\" describing his World War II service. Filmmaker Ken Burns said, \"The story of Joseph Medicine Crow is something I've wanted to tell for 20 years.\"\n\nAfter serving in the Army, Medicine Crow returned to the Crow Agency. In 1948, he was appointed tribal historian and anthropologist. He worked for the BIA beginning in 1951. He served as a board member or officer on the Crow Central Education Commission almost continuously since its inception in 1972. In 1999, he addressed the United Nations.\n\nMedicine Crow was a frequent guest speaker at Little Big Horn College and the Little Big Horn Battlefield Museum. He also was featured in several documentaries about the battle, because of his family's associated oral history. He wrote a script \"that has been used at the reenactment of the Battle of Little Big Horn held every summer in Hardin since 1965.\"\n\nMedicine Crow was a founding member of Little Bighorn College and of the Buffalo Bill Historical Center in Cody, Wyoming beginning in 1976. He was given an honorary Emeritus in the recent years.\n\nAs historian, Medicine Crow was the \"keeper of memories\" of his tribe. He preserved the stories and photographs of his people in an archive in his house and garage. His books include \"Crow Migration Story\", \"Medicine Crow\", the \"Handbook of the Crow Indians Law and Treaties\", \"Crow Indian Buffalo Jump Techniques\", and \"From the Heart of Crow Country\". He also wrote a book for children entitled \"Brave Wolf and the Thunderbird\".\n\n\nMedicine Crow continued to write and lecture at universities and public institutions until his death, at the age of 102, on April 3, 2016. He was in hospice care in Billings, Montana. He is survived by his only son Ron Medicine Crow, daughters Vernelle Medicine Crow and Diane Reynolds, and stepdaughter Garnet Watan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19495740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19495740", "title": "John Adam Cramb", "text": "John Adam Cramb\n\nJohn Adam Cramb (4 May 1862 – October 1913) was a Scottish historian and fervent patriot. He published non-fiction works under his own name, and fiction under the pseudonym of R. A. Revermont.\n\nCramb was born at Denny, Falkirk in Scotland, on 4 May 1862. On leaving school he went to University of Glasgow, where he graduated in 1885, taking 1st Class Honours in Classics. In the same year he was appointed to the Luke Fellowship in English Literature, he also studied at University of Bonn. He subsequently travelled in continental Europe, and in 1887 he married the third daughter of the late Mr. Edward W. Selby Lowndes of Winslow, and left one son. From 1888 to 1890 he was Lecturer in Modern History at Queen Margaret College, Glasgow.\n\nSettling in London in 1890 he contributed several articles to the \"Dictionary of National Biography\", and also occasional reviews to periodicals. For many years he was an examiner for the Civil Service Commission. In 1892 he was appointed Lecturer and in 1893 Professor of Modern History at Queen's College, London, where he lectured until his death. He was also an occasional lecturer on military history at the Staff College, Camberley, and at York, Chatham, and other centres. In London he gave private courses on history, literature and philosophy. His last series of lectures was delivered in February and March, 1913, the subject being the relations between England and Germany. In response to many requests he was engaged in preparing these lectures for publication when, in October 1913, he died.\n\n"}
{"id": "48931998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48931998", "title": "John Charles Cox", "text": "John Charles Cox\n\nJohn Charles Cox (1843–1919) was an English cleric, activist and local historian.\n\nHe was born in Parwich, Derbyshire, the son of Edward Cox, vicar of Luccombe, Somerset, and was educated at Repton School. He studied at The Queen's College, Oxford, for two years from 1862, but left without graduating, becoming a partner in the Wingerworth Coal Company, Derbyshire. He remained with the company to 1885, but was ordained as an Anglican priest in 1881.\n\nAs rector of Barton-le-Street from 1886, and of Holdenby from 1893, Cox made a reputation as \"perhaps one of the most influential English local historians of the nineteenth century\", an area he had written on from the 1870s.\n\nFrom 1890 until approximately 1895, Cox was editor of the monthly antiquarian magazine, \"The Antiquary\". From 1900 he was in Sydenham, and concentrated on writing.\n\nCox was a political activist who \"always focused on the need to fight for the socio-economic and political rights of the labouring poor\".\n\nHe died on 23 February 1919.\n"}
{"id": "16914429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16914429", "title": "Joseph C. Burke", "text": "Joseph C. Burke\n\nJoseph C. Burke (1932 – August 3, 2018) was an American educator and academic best known for serving as President of the State University of New York at Plattsburgh and Acting Chancellor of the State University of New York.\n\nBurke earned a bachelor's degree in History and Philosophy from Bellarmine College and Master's and Ph.D. degrees in Legal History from Indiana University, Bloomington.\n\nBurke began his career at Ohio Wesleyan University and Duquesne University. He assumed the position of Academic Vice President Loyola College (Montreal) and negotiated its merger with Sir George Williams University to form Concordia University in 1974. He then moved to the State University of New York at Plattsburgh, serving as its President for twelve years. Burke became Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs of SUNY in 1986 and was asked to assume the chancellorship when his predecessor resigned due to failing health.\n\nBurke was a Senior Fellow with the Rockefeller Institute's Higher Education Program until his passing in 2018.\n\nSUNY Plattsburgh's Burke Gallery is named after him.\n"}
{"id": "38729147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38729147", "title": "List of lost silent films (1920–1924)", "text": "List of lost silent films (1920–1924)\n\nThis is a list of lost silent films released from 1920 to 1924.\n"}
{"id": "1943545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943545", "title": "Maud Bodkin", "text": "Maud Bodkin\n\nAmy Maud Bodkin (1875 in Chelmsford, Essex – 1967 in Hatfield, Hertfordshire) was an English classical scholar, writer on mythology, and literary critic. She is best known for her 1934 book \"Archetypal Patterns in Poetry: Psychological Studies of Imagination\" (London: Oxford University Press). It is generally taken to be a major work in applying the theories of Carl Jung to literature. \n\nBodkin's other main works are \"The Quest for Salvation in an Ancient and a Modern Play\" (London and New York: Oxford University Press, 1941) and \"Studies of Type-Images in Poetry, Religion and Philosophy\" (London and New York: Oxford University Press, 1951). She lectured at Homerton College, Cambridge from 1902 to 1914.\n\nIn \"Archetypal Patterns in Poetry\", Bodkin applies Jung's theory of the collective unconscious to poetry, discovering a deep-seated primitive meaning behind recurring poetic images, symbols, and situations. She tried, as Boswell (1936: 553) quotes, \"to bring psychological analysis and reflection to bear upon the imaginative experience communicated by great poetry, and to examine those forms or patterns in which the universal forces of our nature there find objectification.\" \n\nAmong the forms or archetypal patterns Bodkin presented, according to Boswell, may be included: the “Oedipus complex,\" the \"rebirth archetype,\" the \"archetype of Heaven and Hell,\" and \"images of the Devil, the Hero, and God\" (Boswell 1936: 553). Boswell goes on to write that Bodkin's \"analyses and presentation are excellent; but the explanations, where any are attempted, seem inadequate to account for some very significant facts which the analyses have brought out\" (Boswell 1936: 553).\n\nOn the other hand, Willcock (1936: 92) states that \"the final impression left by Bodkin's book is one of unusual sensitiveness in reading and sincerity in recording experience.\" In addition, \"Bodkin's pursuit of primordial symbols serves her determination to show, at least from one angle of approach, what poetry is and how it works. She holds herself back from slipping down the easy slope of paraphrase and prose meanings; neither does she drift into allegories and typifiyings\" (Willcock 1936: 91).\n\nFinally, Hooke (1935: 176) called \"Archetypal Patterns in Poetry\", \"a distinguished book; distinguished by acute reasoning, wide and deep learning, and a fine sensitiveness to poetic values. It is a courageous and, to a great extent, successful attempt to apply the technique of analytical psychology to the cloudy and elusive emotional patterns brought up into consciousness by the magic of great poetry.”\n\nThe texts Bodkin discusses in \"Archetypal Patterns in Poetry\" include those of Virgil, Dante, Shakespeare, Milton, and Coleridge (Hooke 1935: 176; Boswell 1936: 553; Willcock 1936: 91); Goethe and Euripides (Boswell 1936: 553); and Aeschylus, Shelley, T. S. Eliot, as well as the Christian Gospels (Hooke 1935: 177).\n\nAt work in the poems of Milton and Aeschylus, for example, as well as in Shelley's \"Prometheus Unbound\", is a fatherlike figure that Bodkin identifies as the Divine Despot (Bodkin 1934: 250; cited in Allgaier 1973: 1036).\n\nThe Divine Despot seems to be involved in the Heaven-and-Hell archetype, the kernel of which contains a \"vital aspect\" that is both positive and negative, and appears in space \"as an image of loveliness with an ever attendant threatening shadow, a desolation beneath or around it\" (Bodkin 1934: 122; cited in Shmiefsky 1967: 721).\n\nHeaven, Hell, and the Divine Despot may descend to earth and have offspring in the Hamlet theme which involves a child's \"ambivalent attitude\" toward its parents and off of which are spun such variants as Oedipus and Orestes (Bodkin 1934: 11–15, cited in Williams 1973: 221), or all may remain at the divine level, as in the situation with Milton's God and Satan, or Aeschylus's Zeus and Prometheus:\n\n\"The antagonism between Prometheus and Zeus can partly be traced to a very general psychological tension, between the instinct of self-expression and rebellion against group values, and the opposite instinct to sustain those group values, and to merge personal claims in a greater power. Bodkin shows how Milton's Satan represents both these psychological forces at different times. Sometimes he is the heroic antagonist of tyranny, and sometimes a devilish enemy of group values, conceived to reside in the protection of God. In the mind of the reader there are these forces, sometimes inherited from very ancient times, and they may determine his response to the poetry quite independently of his conscious thinking about God, fate, and morality. As in the mind of poet or percipient the character of Satan alternates, so inversely the character of God must alternate too. In the Prometheus of Aeschylus are remembered dim fears that progress is wrong, inimical to the group; but also there are present instincts of self-assertion and rebellion. These instincts are connected with the infantile wishes and fears which still lurk in our minds. A poet may 'recall an infantile type of religious fear,' suggesting 'the Freudian doctrine of the father complex or \"imago\", in relation to God.' 'The Freudian school of psychologists has asserted that the religious life represents a dramatisation on the cosmic plane of emotions which arose in the child's relation to his parents' \" (Knight 1938: 53–54; citing Bodkin 1934: 191, 232 ff., 239, 242).\n\nComplicating matters is the Rebirth archetype which, like the Heaven-and-Hell archetype, also involves a \"vital aspect\" that is simultaneously positive and negative, but which appears, not static, but rather \"as a passage in time, from life to desolate death and beyond, to life renewed\" (Bodkin 1934: 122; cited in Shmiefsky 1967: 721). In addition, there is a \"night-journey stage within the pattern of Rebirth\" (Bodkin 1934: 136; cited in Shmiefsky 1967: 735).\n\nRebirth is\n\n\"a movement, downward, or inward toward the earth's centre, or a cessation of movement—a physical change which … appears also as a transition toward severed relation with the outer world, and, it may be, toward disintegration and death. This element in the pattern is balanced by a movement upward and outward—an expansion or outburst of activity, a transition toward redintegration and life-renewal\" (Bodkin 1934: 54; cited in Morgan 1971: 42).\n\nRebirth starts with frustration and has as its goal transcendence; between these two extends the \"process of growth, or 'creative evolution,' in the course of which the constituent factors are transformed\" (Bodkin 1934: 72; cited in Morgan 1971: 42).\n\nHeaven, Hell, and Rebirth are related: \"Heaven is mainly a garden in spring, Hell the scape of winter or a desert, and Rebirth an April violet\" (Shmiefsky 1967: 721). Milton's \"Paradise Lost\" is an example of this interrelation of the two archetypes, where Bodkin claims that \"it is as though the poet's feeling divined the relation of the concepts of Heaven and Hell to the images of spring's beauty and of the darkness under the earth whence beauty comes forth and to which it returns\" (Bodkin 1963: 97; cited in Shmiefsky 1967: 735). Further interpatterning of the two archetypes, spatially and temporally, occurs when Satan emerges \"upwards from his tremendous cavern below the realm of Chaos, to waylay the flower-like Eve in her walled Paradise and make her an inmate of his Hell, even as Pluto rose from beneath the earth to carry off Proserpine from her flowery meadow\" (Bodkin 1934: 97–98; cited in Rosenman 1978: 12)\n\nAbove everything, the Star image \"shines clear, for a moment between the opposites, between man and woman, between day and night; [it] fades and returns like the bloom of a flower, as the world's rhythms sweep on\" (Bodkin 1934: 296; cited in Shmiefsky 1967: 725).\n\nBodkin did not limit herself to the classics nor to Jung, however. She was also an astute reader of other important philosophers of the time. The July 1938 issue of \"Philosophy\", for example, published a letter Bodkin wrote to the editor concerning Santayana:\n\nWhile the same journal's issue of July 1940 presented this statement by her:\n\n“In my own thought I have realized the importance of Professor Collingwood's principle. The process he describes of being 'burdened' with a problem that begins as a 'formless disturbance' and takes shape gradually in urgent questions, is a matter of the emotional no less than of the intellectual life. Those of us who genuinely hold liberal or democratic principles hold them, I would maintain, neither as habit nor as merely 'cerebral,' unemotional thought. Rather they are involved in our intellectual and emotional struggle with problems so deeply rooted within our individual and social life as to be virtually religious in character\" (Bodkin 1940: 335).\n\nBodkin also grappled with the ideas of I. A. Richards and A. N. Whitehead, examining the latter's concept of the \"Divine persuasion\" in a 1945 article entitled \"Physical Agencies and the Divine Persuasion\" and the former's understanding of \"truth in poetry\" in an article of the same name, which concludes:\n\n“As I clarify, through reflective analysis of imaginative communication, my intellectual references to those social objects—states and forces entering our common life—which the poet may portray through heroic figures, or name God, Devil, Heaven, Hell, I am at the same time ordering my emotional attitudes toward those objects. The gain which has come to those of us whom Dr. Richards's writings have stimulated to keener interest in the attitudes harmonized by poetry is enhanced, it seems to me, when we restore to those attitudes and references which Richards separates the unity claimed for them by the Philosophy of Organism\" (Bodkin 1935: 472).\n\nChristian themes, along with those from \"the great religions of the East\" (cited in Hayward 1952), came to dominate Bodkin's later thought and writings, which may also have been influenced by her readings of Martin Buber, Gilbert Ryle, and Karl Jaspers (among others), as her 1944 letter to the editor of \"Philosophy\", \"Our Knowledge of One Another,\" and a 1956 article in the same journal, \"Knowledge and Faith,\" seem to show. The title of Bodkin's short (54 pages) book, \"The Quest for Salvation in an Ancient and a Modern Play\", substantiates one of her chief concerns. This book compares Aeschylus's Eumenides with themes in T. S. Eliot's \"The Family Reunion\", the \"modern play\" which Bodkin had reviewed two years earlier, in May 1939.\n\nAs for Bodkin's last major work, \"Studies of Type-Images in Poetry, Religion and Philosophy\", Carré (1952: 285) states that it \"comprises loose meditations on religious themes, straying through a range of cloudy ideas and culling bunches of quotations from novelists, playwrights, poets and prophets.\" The \"basic question\" that \"Studies of Type-Images in Poetry, Religion and Philosophy\" explores was \"suggested to the author by Martin Buber,\" while \"the answer, insofar as any answer can be given, is derived from certain philosophical implications of Carl Jung's psychological studies\" (Hayward 1952: 225). In this book, Bodkin tried \"to understand and make some reasonable discrimination and choice among the type-images which are actually working among us and openly available to us in literary, ritualistic, or philosophical forms\" (Hayward 1952: 225). \n\nHayward also states that Bodkin criticised \"Freud's critique of religion on the grounds that he knew only Zeus or Jehovah, the paternal-authoritarian type of God, a God who never underwent birth, suffering, death, as did Dionysos or Jesus\" (Hayward 1952: 226). In addition, Aldrich (1953: 153) points out that \"Studies of Type-Images in Poetry, Religion and Philosophy\" is \"a sequel and supplement\" to \"Archetypal Patterns in Poetry\" and that the theme of both books is \"the current widespread idea that we have not wholly awakened out of the 'dream' of mythic consciousness, whose symbols are still exploited in great poetry and religion and even metaphysics.\" \n\nFurthermore, \"both books were written under the spell mainly of C. J. Jung, but also of Albert Schweitzer and Plato. Both use introspective, subjectivist methods of depth psychology, attempting to disclose or make explicit the 'archetypal patterns' of prelogical experience and culture\" (Aldrich 1953: 153).\n\nSome writers felt that the \"type-image\" of Bodkin's last book was a more fruitful concept than the \"archetype\" of her first. For example, Walter Sutton published an essay in 1960 which\n\n\"discusses C. G. Jung's concept of 'archetype' as it was used by various critics especially by Maud Bodkin. The conclusion of the discussion is to the effect that instead of 'archetype' we should rather use the concept of 'type-image' as Maud Bodkin did lately. We avoid thereby the dubious mythological and psychological connotations of the term: archetype—since the term ‘type-image’ admits the possibility of a historical succession of types without implying the existence of a unique prototype supposed to be the underlying substratum of all literary forms referring to a primordial ‘myth.’ The proposed new term retains the idea of uniformity and recurrence inherent in the idea of ‘archetype’ but makes us conceive literature as a culturally conditioned phenomenon valued not because of mythical uniformity but because of appreciation of historically varying originality” (Rieser 1962: 109).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21956340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21956340", "title": "Michael Adas", "text": "Michael Adas\n\nMichael Adas (born 4 February 1943 in Detroit, Michigan) is an American historian and currently the Abraham E. Voorhees Professor of History at Rutgers University. He specializes in the history of technology, the history of anticolonialism and in global history.\n\nMichael Adas was born in 1943 to Harold A., and Elizabeth Rivard Adas. He attended Western Michigan University (Kalamazoo, MI), where he graduated \"summa cum laude\" in 1965. He then went to the University of Wisconsin - Madison for his graduate schooling where he earned two M.A. degrees, History (1967) and Indian Studies (1968), as well as his Ph.D in 1971. In the same year that he earned his M.A. degree in Indian studies he married Jane Hampton on June 18, 1967.\n\nIn 1971, Adas joined Rutgers University as an Assistant Professor and steadily rose through the ranks, becoming a full Professor in 1978. In 1996, Michael Adas received dual honors and was promoted to Rutgers University Board of Governors' Professor and received the Abraham E. Voorhees Chair in History. In addition, Michael Adas is a member of the Association for Asian Studies and the American Association of History Professors.\n\nAt Rutgers University, Adas won the John Simon Guggenheim Fellow Award in 1984 and the Warren Susman Teaching Award in 1987. He won the NJ-NEH Book Award in 1990, and the Dexter Prize in 1991 for \"Machines as the Measure of Men\". In 1992, he won the Teacher of the Year Award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9552224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9552224", "title": "Michael Mayr", "text": "Michael Mayr\n\nMichael Mayr (10 April 1864 – 21 May 1922) was an Austrian politician, who served as Chancellor of Austria in the First Austrian Republic from July 1920 to June 1921. He was a member of the Christian Social Party, and by profession a historian.\n\nMayr was born in Adlwang in Upper Austria, the son of a farmer. He studied history and geography at the University of Vienna and earned a doctorate in 1890. From 1897 through 1920 he served as director of the Tyrol State Archives (\"Tiroler Landesarchiv\"). In 1900 he became a Professor of Modern History at the University of Innsbruck.\n\nMayr's political career began under the Austro-Hungarian Empire, when from 1907 to 1911 he was a member of the Imperial Council (\"Reichsrat\") legislature and from 1908 to 1914 of the Tyrolean \"Landtag\" assembly. With the breakup of the Empire at the end of World War I, Mayr was in 1919/20 a delegate for the Christian Social Party to the National Assembly drafting the new Constitution of Austria. State Chancellor (\"Staatskanzler\") Karl Renner appointed him a state secretary in his grand coalition government on 17 October 1919.\n\nAfter Renner's cabinet finally collapsed, Mayr on 7 July 1920 succeeded him as acting \"director of the state chancellery\", as part of an interim government of his Christian Social Party and the Social Democratic Labor Party (SDAP). Renner himself remained State Secretary for Foreign Affairs until the Social Democrats left the Austrian government after their disappointing outcome in the Austrian legislative election of October 17, to remain in opposition until the end of World War II. From 10 November 1920, with the Constitution's coming into force, the cabinet formed the Austrian Federal Government, with Mayr as Federal Chancellor (\"Bundeskanzler\"). \n\nOn 20 November 1920, the newly established National Council parliament elected Mayr Chancellor of a Christian Social minority government. He also remained Foreign Minister of the country, until the cabinet resigned on 1 June 1921, in response to a referendum that was called in Styria proposing that the state leave Austria and join Germany contrary to the 1919 Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye.\n\nMayr was succeeded as chancellor by non-partisan Johann Schober, backed by the Christian-Socials and the Greater German People's Party. He died about a year later in Waldneukirchen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19838831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19838831", "title": "Michael Perelman (economist)", "text": "Michael Perelman (economist)\n\nMichael Perelman (born October 1, 1939) is an American economist and economic historian, currently professor of economics at California State University, Chico. Perelman has written 19 books, including \"Railroading Economics\", \"Manufacturing Discontent\", \"The Perverse Economy\", and \"The Invention of Capitalism\".\n\nA student of economics at the University of Michigan and San Francisco State College, Perelman earned a Ph.D in agricultural economics from the University of California, Berkeley in 1971, under supervision of George Kuznets. Perelman writes that he was drawn away from the \"framework of conventional economics,\" noticing that the agricultural system was \"consuming ten times more energy than it was producing in the form of edible food.\" Perelman's research into how \"profit-oriented agricultural system created hunger, pollution, serious public health consequences, and environmental disruption, while throwing millions of people off the land\" led to his first book, \"Farming for Profit in a Hungry World\" (1977). Perelman continued to write extensively in criticism of conventional or mainstream economics, including in all his books (and especially his books published from 2000 to date), papers and interviews.\n\nAlthough perceiving flaws in Marx's work as it is typically interpreted in the context of its modern reading, Perelman writes that \"Marx’s crisis theory was far more sophisticated than many modern readers had realized,\" focusing on an interpretation that is largely bypassed by many readers of Marxian economic thought. Perelman views Marxist theory as vindicated through its account of crises that a capitalist economy must inherently generate.\n\nPerelman has appeared on a number of programs, including \"Media Matters\", Pacifica Radio, KPFA 94.1 Berkeley, and WBBR (Bloomberg Radio).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5258074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5258074", "title": "Miroslav Brandt", "text": "Miroslav Brandt\n\nMiroslav Brandt (1914–2002) was a Croatian historian, writer, publicist and polymath. He contributed to disparate areas ranging from politics to history of religions and literary translation. His polemical works helped preserve the national identity of Croats under Yugoslavia.\n\nBrandt was born in Cerić near the Croatian town of Vinkovci. He graduated from the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Zagreb in 1948, specializing in history, geography and Latin. In 1954, he obtained his Ph.D. from the same university with the thesis \"Development of Economic and Social Relationships in Split until the End of the 14th century\". Brandt worked as a librarian in the National and University Library in Zagreb, a curator in the Historical Museum in Zagreb, an assistant at the Historical Institute of the Academy. Finally, Brandt was a professor and vice-dean at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb for many years. He died in Zagreb.\n\nThe opus of Miroslav Brandt includes large encyclopedic works, polemics and articles, as well as literary works. The greatest work in the first category is \"The Medieval Age of Historical Development\", a monumental (around 800 pages) study presenting a detailed history of several centuries (starting from the 3rd) of European and Mediterranean history, describing the great clusters of civilizations of Western Christianity, Byzantium, Islam and other Asian societies (he even included Central American cultures). His \"magnum opus\" has many analyses of economy, culture, language, art, demography...\n\nIn 1989 Brandt wrote a large book called \"Sources of Evil: Dualist Themes\", where he collected many older works he had read at international or local conferences. It is a book of ideas, clearly showing the author's interest for gnostic and dualist currents in the history of religions. It includes a detailed analysis of Biblical books (Genesis, Ecclesiastes), a careful examination of the Toltec religion, Wycliffe's heresy, and local heretical movements in Dalmatia and Bosnia, especially the phenomenon of the Bosnian Church. As for other larger history works, there is Brandt's book on the Kievan Rus'. All these works are characterized by a modern critical and multifaceted approach, using archeology, palaeography, history of art and other auxiliary history disciplines.\n\nHowever, Brandt had far wider interests than medieval and religious studies. As the translator of a part of Proust's cycle \"In Search of Lost Time\", he showed a sensibility for literary and linguistic phenomena.\n\nConsidering his interest in language, it is no wonder that Brandt was one of the seven creators of the Declaration on the Status and Name of the Croatian Standard Language of 1967. (There are indications that Brandt personally wrote the text of the Declaration.) As the Declaration went against the Yugoslav policy, Brandt became \"undesirable\": he was not given any serious punishment (neither were the other authors of the Declaration), but his field of activities was restricted.\n\nThe most important Brandt's polemical work is definitely the Anti-Memorandum, a text where he vehemently and scientifically refutes the claims of the Memorandum of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, the fundamental document of the recent Greater Serbian ideology. Later he was the initiator of the collection \"Sources of Greater Serbian Aggression\" (1991), translated into English and French, which includes his Anti-Memorandum.\n\nIronically, those two influential and historically significant works (especially the Declaration), look quite anachronous today, because of their style and arguments full of communist phrases, which had to be used for such works to be published under Yugoslavia. In this respect, Miroslav Brandt had the paradoxical destiny of a political writer who had much more success than the Croatian classics in that area (Ivo Pilar, Milan Šufflay), but whose political works have become obsolete.\n\nIn his old age Brandt turned to literature. He wrote an autobiography, \"Living with Contemporaries\", where he paints a pessimist image of his life, with not much good to say about his colleagues historians, primarily Jaroslav Šidak and Nada Klaić.\n\nBrandt's claim that his bourgeois origins, developed national consciousness and non-communist world view made him incompatible with the ideological framework of his profession which went against his whole being, is not easy to verify or valuate. In his memoirs, he explains why he did not deal with Croatian themes (except marginally), instead using his erudition and interests to write about European and world history. Brandt's polemical statement that Croatian historiography under Yugoslavia purposely reduced the national element to a minimum, claiming to destroy myths and create critical historiography represented by Nada Klaić (whom Brandt accused of being protected by the communist regime only because it considered her work ultimately destructive for the Croatian national pride) remains an intriguing and questionable proposition that is yet to be verified.\n\nAside from the mentioned memoirs, he wrote a novel, \"Triptych\", where he attacked communist totalitarianism. It is too early to estimate the future status of his works in Croatian literature. Still, even a superficial reader will notice that Brandt spent the last years of his life in resignation and pessimism. The available sources indicate that not even the creation of a sovereign Croatian state (which he had helped prepare) managed to pull him from the lethargy and the feeling of pointlessness radiating from his autobiographic works.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38748149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38748149", "title": "Morique language", "text": "Morique language\n\nMorique (Morike) is an extinct, poorly attested, and unclassified Arawakan language.\n"}
{"id": "22291001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22291001", "title": "Museum of Copenhagen", "text": "Museum of Copenhagen\n\nThe Museum of Copenhagen (Danish: Københavns Bymuseum), founded in 1891, is the official museum of Copenhagen, Denmark, documenting the city's history from the 12th century to the present.\n\nStarting in 1925, the museum had a permanent exhibition in the attic of Copenhagen City Hall. As the collections grew, the attic became too small and in 1956 the museum moved to the former building of the Royal Shooting Society. The former shooting range became a public park, still known as Skydebanehaven. In 1984, the museum took over the former Maria Kruuse School in the adjacent Absalongade. It is now used for administration as well as the museum's archives. Part of the street was turned into a museum street featuring historic street furniture.\nIn 2018, the museum was moved to a new location, right behind the city hall.\n"}
{"id": "21463013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21463013", "title": "New York State Archives", "text": "New York State Archives\n\nThe New York State Archives is a unit of the Office of Cultural Education within the New York State Education Department, with its main facility located in the Cultural Education Center on Madison Avenue in Albany, New York, United States. The New York State Library and the New York State Museum are also located in the Cultural Education Center. \n\nThe New York State Archives was established in 1971 to preserve and make accessible recorded evidence documenting New York State's history, governments, events, and peoples from the 17th century to the present. Full operations began in 1978 when the organization's storage and research facility opened in the Cultural Education Center. \n\nThe Archives preserves and provides access to over 250 million documents dating from the period of Dutch and British colonial rule during the 17th and 18th centuries through the modern day. The State Archives preserves records from the legislative, judicial, and executive branches of state government. Topics covered in those records include relations with Native Americans, the Erie Canal and westward expansion, industrial development, labor, the rise of the modern social welfare system, public education, public health, the environmental movement, and New York State citizens' participation in numerous military conflicts. The collection includes nearly 13,000 documents relating to the administration of the colony of New Netherland. In addition, the archives maintains the records of the construction of the Erie Canal and New York State Barge Canal including maps, engineering drawings and glass plate negatives. Finally, the collection includes over 50,000 motion picture film scripts from the 1920s to the 1960s. The Archives' web site provides online access to over 100,000 digital images of maps, photographs and other materials of interest as well as an on-line catalog with descriptions of all records in the collection.\n\nIn 1987 the New York State Archives assumed the responsibility for overseeing management and disposition of state government records, including operation of the State Records Center in Albany. Legislation in 1988 created the Documentary Heritage Program that provided for technical advisory services and competitive grants to historical societies, museums, libraries, and other nonprofit organizations holding historical records. A local government records law in 1987 required the appointment of records management officers in 4300 local governments, including every county, city, town, village, and school and special district. A Local Government Records Management Improvement Fund was established in 1989 to support technical advisory services and competitive grants to local governments to help them develop and maintain records management programs. Through this program the State Archives provides archives and records management advice and technical support to every area of the State. Over $250 million in grant funds have been distributed since the program's inception.\n\nThe New York State Archives serves students and teachers, scholars and community researchers, government officials, the legal and business community, and the general public. It encourages students through awards, grants, and internships; helps teachers use historical documents as primary source material in the classroom; and offers stipends for research using State Archives’ records. The annual Student Research Award provides a cash award to New York State students in grades 3-5, 6-8 and 9-12 for projects that use historical records. The Hackman Research Residency program provides travel grants to scholars to come to Albany to use the resources of the State Archives to conduct research and develop new knowledge using primary source materials. The nonprofit New York State Archives Partnership Trust, established in 1992, provides support for preservation of and access to the treasures of the State Archives, educational projects that make historical records available to teachers and students and programs that promote New York State’s archives and history and publishes a quarterly magazine \"New York Archives\" with articles and photographic essays on New York state history.\n\nThe New York State Archives Partnership Trust was a New York State public-benefit corporation located within the Cultural Education Center whose mission was to create an endowment to preserve archival records. It is not listed within the 2018 New York State Authorities Budget Office report.\n\nRoe, Kathleen. “New York State Archives,” The Encyclopedia of New York State, Editor Peter Eisenstadt, Syracuse University Press, 2005; \n\n\n"}
{"id": "17276502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17276502", "title": "Ordo Rachelis", "text": "Ordo Rachelis\n\nThe Ordo Rachelis (Play of Rachel), Interfectio Puerorum (Murder of the Children), or Ludus Innocentium (Play of the Innocents) is a medieval dramatic tradition consisting in four plays and based on the Massacre of the Innocents, an event recorded in the Gospel of Matthew, and on the prophecy recorded in the Book of Jeremiah: \"A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation, and bitter weeping; Rahel weeping for her children refused to be comforted for her children, because they were not\" (31:15, KJV). The prophecy, which Matthew believed to be fulfilled when Herod the Great ordered the slaughter of all boys under two in Bethlehem, looks backwards to Rachel, the matriarch of the Hebrews, and towards her lamentation over the death of her children, the Hebrew children, in the massacre.\n\nThe \"Ordo Rachelis\" plays were probably performed as part of the liturgy for Innocents Day (28 December).\n\nThe first modern critical edition of the Rachel plays was made by Karl Young in 1919. Young believed the plays developed from dramatic kernels in the Epiphany plays of the ninth and tenth centuries into full dramatic treatments of their own in the eleventh and twelfth. The four extensive treatments which Young classified as \"ordines Rachelis\" differ considerably. There are the \"Lamentatio Rachelis\" from Saint-Martial at Limoges (eleventh century), a lengthy part of an Epiphany play from Laon (twelfth century), a play from Freising (late eleventh century), and another one from Fleury (thirteenth century). Only the last two can be regarded as \"separate dramatic unit[s]\". In both of them the \"fuga in Egyptum\" and the \"pastores\" themes have been incorporated, and the Fleury play contains the only extant medieval dramatic representation of the return from Egypt. Chambers has gone so far as to suggest a coalescing of all the Epiphany themes in the Fleury \"ordo\" and of a merging of the Rachel and Herod (\"Herodes\") themes in the Freising.\n\nThe late eleventh-century manuscript of the Limoges \"ordo\" is now lat. 1139 in the Bibliothèque nationale de France, Paris, which contains many liturgical pieces, including the play \"Sponsus\". The Fleury version is preserved in the famous Fleury Playbook, an important eleventh-century compilation of liturgical drama.\n\nAs to the origins of the tradition Karl Young concluded, like before him (\"Die lateinischen Magierspiele\", 1905), that it was initially an independent trope at Limoges and then appended to the \"Officium stellae\" at Laon, representing a French tradition. This tradition was merged with a German one that arose at Freising at Fleury, though the ecclesiastical affairs that brought about this transmission (from Laon, Limoges, and Freising to Fleury) are unknown. Young differs from Anz in that the latter thought the Freising text also developed from the Limoges original. An older theory of origins was put forth by William Meyer (\"Fragmenta Burana\", 1901). He hypothesised that a south German original, large and complex, disintegrated into a Freising play that was largely a whittled-down copy and three divergent French plays that were influenced by the French liturgy.\n\nPeter Dronke believes it was to the dialogic poem \"Quid tu, virgo\" by Notker the Stammerer, written probably in the 860s, that the eleventh-century dramatists were responding with their Rachel sequences.\n\nThe Rachel of the play is symbolically every Hebrew mother who lost her child to the massacre. In the Freising version, she opens the action by singing a \"planctus\" over her children's bodies before a \"consolatrix\" (female comforter) arrives to soothe her spirit. In the Fleury version, she sings a series of four \"plancti\" before two \"consolatrices\" come out to catch her as she faints. The \"consolatrices\" fail to comfort her, but lead her away. In both versions they sing the final lines. In the Fleury version the drama began with a procession of young boys \"per monasterium\" (down the aisle of the church's nave) and a lamb bearing a cross appears running \"to and fro\" (\"huc et illuc\"). Then the action shifts to Herod receiving his sceptre and Joseph at the manger receiving a message from Gabriel to flee to Egypt. Joseph and the holy family exit secretly while Herod attempts suicide as news is brought that the Magi avoided telling him the Christ child's location. After he regains his composure, he orders the massacre. The lamb is then led off stage and the massacre begins, despite the pleas of the mothers and the children to the angels above. After the Rachel scenes, an angel conducts the children to the choir and a dumb show shows Herod being succeeded as king by Archelaus before the holy family returns from Egypt. The entire Fleury play ends with a singing of the \"Te Deum\".\n\n"}
{"id": "26456533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26456533", "title": "Petru Cazacu", "text": "Petru Cazacu\n\nPetru Cazacu (October 6, 1873 in Chişinău – August 1956 in Bucharest) was a Romanian politician.\n\nHe served as the prime minister of the Moldavian Democratic Republic in 1918. He is the Grandfather of Loredana Cazacu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31458937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31458937", "title": "Platonism in Islamic Philosophy", "text": "Platonism in Islamic Philosophy\n\nMedieval Islamic philosophy was steeped in both Aristotelianism and Neoplatonism from its 9th-century beginnings with Al-Kindi, but the influence of Neoplatonism becomes more clearly visible in the 10th and 11th centuries with Al-Farabi and Avicenna. Al-Farabi expanded on Plato’s concept of an ideal city ruled by philosopher-kings to develop a political philosophy that could accommodate the religious and cultural diversity central to Islamic nations.\nOn the other hand, both al-Ghazali and Ibn Rushd vigorously opposed Neoplatonic views.\n\nThe characteristic of Neoplatonic thought in Islamic theology is that of emanation, linking God's transcendence with the corporeal reality of his creation. \nIslamic Neoplatonism was introduced by Al-Farabi, although Avicenna proved to have the greater influence. Both authors present a complex scheme of emanation.\n\nIslamic Neoplatonism was allowed to flourish in the 10th to early 11th century, but there \nwas a strong reaction against it in the later 11th century, especially from \nAl-Ghazali, who represents Islamic theology's \"most biting attack on philosophy\" at the time, and the severest reaction to Neoplatonism in particular (Netton 1998).\nAl-Ghazali's criticism evoked a counter-reaction by Ibn Rushd, \nwho wrote a \"systematic rebuttal of al-Ghazali's critique of Greco-Arab philosophy\". \nWhile Ibn Rushd is trying to defend the possibility of philosophical thought as non-heretical, he does at the same time himself reject the theses of the Neoplatonist philosophers.\n\nAfter the death of Ibn Rushd in 1198, the debate on Neoplatonism in Islam mostly comes to an end, and survival of Neoplatonic thought within Islam was mostly limited to Ismailism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "417624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=417624", "title": "Ross, Scotland", "text": "Ross, Scotland\n\nRoss (\"Ros\" in Scottish Gaelic) is a region of Scotland, a former earldom and, under the name Ross and Cromarty, a county. The name \"Ross\" allegedly derives from a Gaelic word meaning \"headland\", perhaps a reference to the Black Isle. Another possible origin is the West Norse word for Orkney – \"Hrossey\" – meaning \"horse island\"; the area once belonged to the Norwegian (West Norse) earldom of Orkney. Ross is a historical comital region, perhaps predating the Mormaerdom of Ross. It is also a region used by the Church, with the Presbytery of Ross being part of the Synod of Ross, Sutherland and Caithness. \n\nExcavations of a rock shelter and shell midden at Sand, Applecross on the coast of Wester Ross have shown that the coast was occupied by Mesolithic hunter-gatherers.\n\nIt may be doubted whether the Romans ever effected even a temporary settlement in the area of the modern county. In Roman times, and for long afterwards, the land was occupied by Picts, who, in the 6th and 7th centuries, were converted to Christianity by followers of Saint Columba. Throughout the next three centuries the natives were continually harassed by Norwegian Viking raiders, of whose presence tokens have survived in several place-names (Dingwall, Tain, and others). At this time the country formed part of the great province of Moray (Latin: \"Moravia\"), which then extended as far as the Dornoch Firth and the Oykel, and included practically the whole of Ross and Cromarty.\n\nWilliam, the 4th Earl of Ross, was present with his clan at the Battle of Bannockburn (1314), and almost a century later (1412) the castle of Dingwall, the chief seat on the mainland of Donald, Lord of the Isles, was captured after the disastrous fight at Harlaw in Aberdeenshire, which Donald had provoked when his claim to the earldom was rejected. The earldom reverted to the crown in 1424, but James I soon afterwards restored it to the heiress of the line, the mother of Alexander Macdonald, 3rd Lord of the Isles, who thus became the 11th Earl. In consequence, however, of the treason of John Macdonald, 4th and last Lord of the Isles and 12th Earl of Ross, the earldom was again vested in the crown (1476). Five years later James III bestowed it on his second son, James Stewart, whom he also created Duke of Ross in 1488.\n\nBy the 16th century the whole area of the county was occupied by different clans. The Rosses held what is now Easter Ross; the Munros the small tract around Ben Wyvis, including Dingwall; the Macleods Lewis, and, in the mainland, the district between Loch Maree and Loch Torridon; the Macdonalds of Glengarry, Coigach, and the district between Strome Ferry and Kyle of Lochalsh, and the Mackenzies the remainder.\n\nThe county of Ross was constituted in 1661, and Cromarty in 1685 and 1698, both being consolidated into the present county in 1889.\n\nApart from occasional conflicts between rival clans, the only battles in the county were at Invercarron, at the head of Dornoch Firth, when Montrose was crushed by Colonel Archibald Strachan on 27 April 1650; and at Glenshiel, where the Jacobites, under the Earl of Seaforth, aided by Spaniards, were defeated by a force under the command of General Joseph Wightman on 10 June 1719.\n\nRoss lies south of Sutherland and the Dornoch Firth, west of the North Sea and the Moray Firth, north of the Beauly Firth and Inverness-shire and east of The Minch. There are also a number of small islands off the area's west coast, among which are:\n\n\nThe area of the mainland is .\n\nOn the North Sea (eastern) side of the county the major firths are the Beauly Firth and the (Inner) Moray Firth, which separate the Black Isle from Inverness-shire; the Cromarty Firth, which bounds the districts of Easter Ross and the Black Isle; the Moray Firth, separating Easter Ross from Nairnshire; and the Dornoch Firth, dividing north-east Ross from Sutherland.\n\nOn the Atlantic (western) coastline—which has a length of nearly —the principal sea lochs and bays, from south to north, are Loch Duich, Loch Alsh, Loch Carron, Loch Kishorn, Loch Torridon, Loch Shieldaig, Upper Loch Torridon, Gair Loch, Loch Ewe, Gruinard Bay, Loch Broom and Enard Bay.\n\nThe chief capes include Tarbat Ness on the east coast, and Coigach, Greenstone Point, Rubha Reidh, Redpoint and Hamha Point on the west.\n\nAlmost all the southern boundary with Inverness-shire consists of a rampart of peaks, many of them Munros:\n\nTo the north of Glen Torridon are the masses of Liathach (), Beinn Eighe (), Beinn Alligin () and Beinn Dearg (). On the northeastern shore of Loch Maree rises Slioch (), while the Fannich group contains six Munros, the highest being Sgurr Mor (). The immense isolated bulk of Ben Wyvis (), forms the most noteworthy feature in the north-east, and An Teallach () in the north-west appears equally conspicuous, though less solitary. Only a small fraction of the west and south of the area is under in height. Easter Ross and the peninsula of the Black Isle are comparatively level.\n\nThe longest stream of the mainland portion of Ross and Cromarty is the River Orrin, which rises from the slopes of An Sidhean () and pursues a north-easterly course to its confluence with the River Conon after a run of about , a small part of which forms the boundary with Inverness-shire. At Aultgowrie the stream rushes through a narrow gorge where the drop is considerable enough to make the Falls of Orrin. The River Blackwater flows from mountains in Strathvaich southeast for until it joins the Conon, forming soon after it leaves Loch Garve the small but picturesque Falls of Rogie. Within a short distance of its exit from Loch Luichart the Conon pours over a series of cascades and rapids and then pursues a winding course of , mainly eastward to the head of the Cromarty Firth. Situated above Glen Elchaig in the southwest of the region are the Falls of Glomach. The stream giving rise to them drains a series of small lochs on the northern flanks of Beinn Fhada (Ben Attow) and, in an almost unbroken sheet over a metre in width, effects a sheer drop of 110 m, and soon afterwards ends its course in Glen Elchaig. The falls are usually visited from Invershiel 11 km to the south-west. 12 miles south-east of Ullapool, on the estate of Braemore, are the Falls of Measach, formed by the Droma, a headstream of the River Broom. The cascades, three in number, are close to Corrieshalloch Gorge. The River Oykel, throughout its course, forms the boundary with Sutherland.\n\nThere are many freshwater lochs, the largest being Loch Maree. In the far north-west, above the sea, lies Loch Sionascaig, a loch of such irregularity of outline that it has a shore-line of . It contains several wooded islands, and drains into Enard Bay by the River Polly. Lochan Fada (the long loch), above the sea, is in length, and covers an area of , and is deep, with a mean depth of . Once drained by the Muice (Allt na Muice), it has been tapped a little farther west by the Abhainn na Fhasaigh, which has lowered the level of the loch. Other lochs are Fionn Loch (the white or clear lake), long by wide, famous for its herons, Loch Luichart towards the centre of the area (8 miles long and between wide), fringed with birches and having the shape of a crescent, the mountain-girt Loch Fannich (1 mile wide); and the wild narrow Lochs Monar ( long) and Mullardoch ( long), on the Inverness-shire boundary.\n\nOf the straths or valleys, the more important run from the centre eastwards, such as Strathconon, Strathbran, Strathgarve, Strathpeffer and Strathcarron. Excepting Glen Orrin, in the east central district, the longer glens lie in the south and towards the west. In the extreme south Glen Shiel runs between five mountains (the Five Sisters of Kintail) to its mouth on Loch Duich. The A87 passes down the glen. Further north lie Glen Elchaig, Glen Carron, and Glen Torridon. The railway from Dingwall runs through Glen Carron to Kyle of Lochalsh.\n\nThe central portion of this county is occupied by the younger highland schists or Dalradian series. These consist of quartzites, mica-schists, garnetiferous mica-schists and gneisses, all with a gentle inclination towards the southeast. On the eastern side of the county the Dalradian schists are covered unconformably by the Old Red Sandstone. The boundary runs southward from Edderton on Dornoch Firth, by Strathpeffer, to the neighborhood of Beauly. These rocks comprise red flags and sandstones, grey bituminous flags and shales. An anticlinal fold with a southwest-northeast axis brings up the basal beds of the series about the mouth of Cromarty Firth and exposes once more the schists in The Sutors (The Sutors of Cromarty) guarding the entrance to the firth. The western boundary of the younger schist is formed by the great pre-Cambrian dislocation line that traverses the county in a fairly direct course from Elphin on the north by Ullapool to Glencarron. Most of the area west of the line of disturbance is covered by Torridonian Sandstone, mainly dark reddish sandstones, grits and shales, resting unconformably on the ancient Lewisian gneiss with horizontal or slightly inclined bedding. The unconformity is well exposed on the shores of Gairloch, Loch Maree and Loch Torridon. These rocks, which attain a considerable thickness and are divisible into three sub-groups, build up the mountain districts of Applecross, Coigach and elsewhere.\n\nWithin the Torridonian tract the older Lewisian gneiss occupies large areas north of Coigach, on the east of Enard Bay, between Gruinard Bay and Loch Maree. Between the last named and Gairloch, on both sides of middle Loch Torridon and at many other spots smaller patches appear. The Lewisian gneiss is everywhere penetrated by basic dikes, generally with a northwest-southeast direction; some of these are of great breadth. The Torridonian rocks are succeeded unconformably by a series of Cambrian strata confined to a variable but narrow belt west of the line of main thrusting. This belt of Cambrian rocks has suffered an enormous amount of subordinate thrusting. It is composed of the following subdivisions in ascending order: falsebedded quartzite, Pipe Rock quartzite, fucoid beds and Olenellus band, serpulite grit, Durness dolomite and marble, Durness dolomite and limestone: but these are not always visible at any one spot. So great has been the disturbance in the region of thrusting that in some places, as in the neighborhood of Loch Kishorn and elsewhere, the rocks have been completely overturned and the ancient gneiss has been piled upon the Torridonian.\n\nOn the shore of Moray Firth at Rathie a small patch of Kimeridge shale occurs, and beneath the cliffs of Shandwick there is a little Lower Oolite with a thin seam of coal. Glacial striae are found upon the mountains up to heights of , and much boulder clay is found in the valleys and spread over large areas in the eastern districts. Raised beaches occur at up to or so above the present sea-level; they are well seen in Loch Carron.\n\nThe west coast has high rainfall: an annual average of at Loch Broom and at Strome Ferry (autumn and winter being the wettest seasons), but on the east coast the annual average is only . The average daily maximum temperature for the year is . Average daily maxima for January and July are and respectively.\n\nThe most fertile tracts lie on the eastern coast, especially in Easter Ross and the Black Isle, where the soil varies from a light sandy gravel to a rich deep loam. As of 1911, among grain crops oats were most generally cultivated, but barley and wheat were also raised. Turnips and potatoes were the chief green crops. The higher land contains much good pasturage, with many sheep, blackfaced being the principal breed. Most of the horses, principally half-breds between the old garrons (hardy, serviceable, small animals) and Clydesdales, were maintained for the purposes of agriculture. The herds of cattle, mainly native Highland or crosses, were large, many of them supplying the London market. Pigs were reared, though in smaller numbers than formerly, most generally by the crofters.\n\nAs of 1911 about were devoted to deer forests, a greater area than in any other county in Scotland, among the largest being Achnashellach with ), Fannich with , Kinlochluichart with , Braemore with , Inchbae with and Dundonnell with . At one time the area under wood must have been remarkable, if we accept the common derivation of the word \"Ross\" as from the Old Irish \"ros\", a wood, and there was until recent times a considerable extent of native woodland, principally pine, oak, ash and alder.\n\nThe fauna was noteworthy. Red and roe deer abounded, and foxes and alpine hares were common, while badgers and wild cats were occasionally trapped. Winged game was plentiful, and amongst birds of prey the golden eagle and osprey occurred. Waterfowl of all kinds frequented the sea lochs. Many rivers and lochs were rich in salmon and trout, and the pearl mussel was found in the bed of the Conon.\n\nTourism is a major industry in the region, with over 20% of the workforce employed in the wholesale, restaurant and hotels sector, second only to the public service sector. A little over 5% of the workforce are employed in agriculture, forestry and fishing, traditionally major industries in the region. The oil industry, which spurred a rapid increase in industrial development in the 1970s, is in decline, although still a major employer.\n\nThe Glen Ord and Glenmorangie distilleries are prominent whisky distilleries.\n\nA railway, the Far North Line from Inverness, enters the county to the north of Beauly and runs northwards through Dingwall and onwards to Tain and along the southerly bank of the Dornoch Firth. From there the single-track line continues north/northeast through Sutherland to Thurso and Wick in Caithness. The Kyle of Lochalsh Line runs west/southwest from Dingwall to the Kyle of Lochalsh.\n\nThe principal relics of antiquity - mainly stone circles, cairns and forts - appear in the eastern district. A vitrified fort crowns the hill of Knockfarrel in the parish of Fodderty, and there is a circular dun near the village of Lochcarron. Some fine examples of sculptured stones occur, especially those that, according to tradition, mark the burial-place of the three sons of a Danish king who were shipwrecked off the coast of Nigg. The largest and handsomest of these three crosses - the Clach a' Charraidh, or Stone of Lamentation - stands at Shandwick. It is about 10 feet (3 m) high and contains representations of the martyrdom of St Andrew and figures of an elephant and dog. It fell during a storm in 1847 and was broken in three pieces. On the top of the cross in Nigg churchyard are two figures with outstretched arms in the act of supplication; the dove descends between them, and below are two dogs. The cross was knocked down by the fall of the belfry in 1725, but has been riveted together. The third stone formerly stood at Hilton of Cadboll, but was removed for security to the grounds of Invergordon Castle.\n\nAmong old castles are those of Lochslin, in the parish of Fearn, said to date from the 13th century, which, though ruinous, possesses two square towers in good preservation; Balone, in the parish of Tarbat, once a stronghold of the Earls of Ross; the remains of Dingwall Castle, their original seat; and Eilean Donan in Loch Alsh, which was blown up by British warships during the abortive Jacobite rising in 1719.\n\nThe local government county was created under the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1889, which also established elected county councils for all counties in Scotland. The county of Ross and Cromarty was nominally a merger of two older administrative counties, Ross-shire and Cromartyshire, but there were some alterations to boundaries. The alterations became fully effective, for all purposes except parliamentary representation, in 1892.\n\nThe county included six burghs: Cromarty, Dingwall, Fortrose, Invergordon, Stornoway and Tain. Dingwall was the county town.\n\nWhen counties and burghs were abolished as local government areas, in 1975, under the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1973, the area of the county was divided between two new areas, the Highland region and the Western Isles, and the Ross and Cromarty district of the region was created as one of eight districts of the new region.\n\nStornoway and the district of Lewis merged into the Western Isles. Also, the new Ross and Cromarty district excluded two other areas, which merged into other districts of the region. The electoral division of Kincardine was merged into Sutherland, and the South West electoral division (an area around and including Lochalsh) was merged into Skye and Lochalsh.\n\nIn 1996, under the Local Government etc (Scotland) Act 1994, the district was abolished and the Highland region was turned into a unitary council area. The new unitary authority, the Highland Council, then adopted the area of the former district as a council management area, and created area committees to represent it. The management area consisted then of 13 wards, each electing one councillor by the first past the post system of election. The council as a whole had 72 members.\n\nWard boundaries were altered in 1999, to create 80 new wards, but management area boundaries were unaltered. Therefore, area committees ceased to represent exactly the areas for which they were named and made decisions. 18 wards and, therefore, 18 councillors were related to the Ross and Cromarty management area.\n\nUnder the Local Governance (Scotland) Act 2004, ward boundaries changed again this year, 2007. Also, the eight management areas were abolished in favour of three new corporate management areas. The Ross and Cromarty area was divided between the Caithness, Sutherland and Easter Ross area and the Ross, Skye and Lochaber area.\n\n"}
{"id": "3963885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3963885", "title": "Royal Palace, Luang Prabang", "text": "Royal Palace, Luang Prabang\n\nThe Royal Palace (official name Haw Kham, ) in Luang Prabang, Laos, was built in 1904 during the French colonial era for King Sisavang Vong and his family. The site for the palace was chosen so that official visitors to Luang Prabang could disembark from their river voyages directly below the palace and be received there. After the death of King Sisavang Vong, the Crown Prince Savang Vatthana and his family were the last to occupy the grounds. In 1975, the monarchy was overthrown by the communists and the royal family were taken to re-education camps. The palace was then converted into a national museum.\n\nOn the palace grounds, there are other buildings surrounding the palace which includes:\n\nThere is a lotus pond and two cannons at the entrance of the palace. A statue of King Sisavang Vong is outside the conference hall.\n\nThe architecture of the palace has a mixed of traditional Lao motifs and French Beaux Arts styles. It was laid out in a double-cruciform shape with the entrance on one side of the lower crossbar. Above the entrance is a three-headed elephant sheltered by the sacred white parasol, the symbol of the Lao monarchy. The steps to the entrance are made of Italian marble. There are royal religious objects on display in the large Entrance Hall.\nOn the right of the entrance is the King's reception room, where busts of the Luang Phrabang and, later, Lao monarchs are displayed along with two large gilded and lacquered Ramayana screens, crafted by the local artisan Thit Tanh. The walls are covered with murals that depict scenes from traditional Lao lifestyles, painted in 1930 by a French artist, Alix de Fauntereau. Each of the walls is intended to be viewed at a different time of day, depending on the light that enters the windows on one side of the room, which matches the time of day depicted.\n\nIn the right front corner room of the palace, which opens to the outside, is a collection of the palace's most prized art, including the Phra Bang, cast of a gold, silver and bronze alloy. This Buddha stands 83 cm tall and weighs around 50 kg. Legend has it that the statue was made around the 1st century in Sri Lanka and was later presented to the Khemer King Phaya Sirichantha, who then gave it to King Fa Ngum in 1359 as a Lao Buddhist leader.\n\nThe Siamese twice took the image to Thailand in 1779 and 1827, but it was returned to Laos by King Mongkut in 1867. There are rumours that the one on display is a copy and the original is stored in Vientiane or Moscow. It is said the real one had gold leaf over the eyes and a hole drilled through one of its ankle. Also in the room are another Buddha, engraved with large elephant tusks, and three beautiful saew mâi khán (embroidered silk screens with religious imagery) that were crafted by the Queen.\n\nOn the left of the Entrance Hall, the secretary's reception room is filled with paintings, silver and china that have been presented to Laos as diplomatic gifts from Myanmar, Cambodia, Thailand, Poland, Hungary, Russia, Japan, Vietnam, China, Nepal, United States, Canada and Australia. These objects are grouped by \"socialist\" and \"capitalist\" countries. One exhibit donated by the USA is a piece of moon rock obtained by an Apollo mission.\n\nThe next room to the left was once the Queen's reception room. Large royal portraits of King Savang Vatthana, Queen Khamphoui and Crown Prince Vong Savang, painted by Russian artist Ilya Glazunov in 1967, are hung on the walls. There are friendship flags from China and Vietnam and replicas of sculpture from the National Museum, New Delhi.\nIn the far rooms are the royal family's bedrooms and living quarters. The bedrooms have been preserved as they were in 1975 when the King was forced from the palace. There is a dining hall and a room that contains royal seals and medals.\n\nThe Throne Room contains the Crown Jewels of Laos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10847572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10847572", "title": "Sherman's March (2007 film)", "text": "Sherman's March (2007 film)\n\nSherman's March is a 2007 American Civil War television documentary film first aired on the History Channel. The film is directed by Rick King and the executive producer is Jason Williams. The production combines narration with reenacted dramatic sequences as its foundation.\n\nThe film, narrated by actor Edward Herrmann, tells the tale of Union General William Tecumseh Sherman, called \"Uncle Billy\" by his troops, and his five-week assault from Atlanta to the Atlantic Ocean (Savannah, Georgia) and then north to trap Confederate States Army General Robert E. Lee.\n\nSherman's military campaign has become the mythic symbol of destruction during the Civil War. The opening sequence poses the question that reflects the film's theme:\n\nThe documentary chronicles General William Tecumseh Sherman's historic \"March to the Sea\" through Georgia, South Carolina and North Carolina during the fall of 1864. It shows Sherman marching 62,000 Union troops over 650 miles in less than 100 days, and losing only 600 men along the way. The march introduces a new concept to the already brutal Civil War: total war, where the distinctions between combatants and civilians is blurred. While hated by white Southerners as a destroyer, Sherman is hailed by black Southerners as a liberator. It ends with Union victory and closes with Sherman as an old man living in New York and fondly remembering how his \"nephews\" and their \"uncle Billy\" would make ten miles a day.\n\nThe documentary utilizes state of the art production techniques including CGI, special effects and historical re-creations. It relies on historical reenactors to play Sherman's soldiers and all dialogue is in fact quotes from historical sources: letters, Sherman's memoirs, diaries, etc. The documentary features a psychological profile on Sherman, stating that in the months leading up to the Civil War he was accused of being insane and that he contemplated suicide.\n\nBill Oberst, the actor playing Sherman, states in a behind-the-scenes featurette that while the general will always be a controversial figure, he hopes that the documentary will shed light on why the man did what he did. It emphasizes that Sherman was loved by the enslaved blacks whom he freed and that while he did not see himself as fighting to destroy slavery, he nevertheless made a point of treating blacks whom he met with courtesy and respect. (The documentary also shows the reactions of his soldiers as they met blacks along the March. Many had never seen a black person and were surprised to learn that blacks were ordinary people.) The documentary also mentions that Sherman killed far fewer Confederate soldiers and civilians than did Ulysses S. Grant, his friend and fellow general, yet Sherman was the one vilified. The scholars interviewed postulate that the South had need for a scapegoat in the wake of the Civil War and that Sherman was the easiest target. For his part, Sherman is stated to have seen himself as only doing his duty and that he did not care what people said about him one way or the other.\n\n\nOther cast\n\n\nFilming took place on location in High Definition in Washington County, Maryland and also at Endview Plantation and Lee Hall in Newport News, Virginia and in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.\n\nThe documentary was well received by television critics. Tony Perry of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote, \"Civil War documentaries are inevitably judged against the monumental work \"The Civil War\" by Ken Burns. \"Sherman's March,\" different in tone and approach, more than holds its own. Whereas Burns used period photographs and regional music, \"Sherman's March\" leans on reenactments, maps and, like Burns, academic talking heads. If there is a quibble, it's that the music tends to distract, not enhance, the effect.\"\n\nBroadcasting critic Dusty Saunders wrote of the scholarly aspects of the documentary, \"...\"Sherman's March\", [is] a compelling documentary on The History Channel that's must viewing for Civil War buffs. Even viewers with only passing knowledge about this military action will be mesmerized by this superb recounting.\"\n\nBrian Lowry, critic for \"Variety\" magazine, on the program's historical presentation: \"... this tightly produced documentary provides a welcome primer on the military genius of William Tecumseh Sherman, whose famous march through the South remains a subject of controversy...this doc is among the better recent History Channel productions.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "45541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45541", "title": "Social Darwinism", "text": "Social Darwinism\n\nSocial Darwinism is the application of the evolutionary concept of natural selection to human society. The term itself emerged in the 1880s, and it gained widespread currency when used after 1944 by opponents of these ways of thinking. The majority of those who have been categorized as social Darwinists did not identify themselves by such a label.\n\nScholars debate the extent to which the various social Darwinist ideologies reflect Charles Darwin's own views on human social and economic issues. His writings have passages that can be interpreted as opposing aggressive individualism, while other passages appear to promote it. Some scholars argue that Darwin's view gradually changed and came to incorporate views from other theorists such as Herbert Spencer. Spencer published his Lamarckian evolutionary ideas about society before Darwin first published his hypothesis in 1859, and both Spencer and Darwin promoted their own conceptions of moral values. Spencer supported \"laissez-faire\" capitalism on the basis of his Lamarckian belief that struggle for survival spurred self-improvement which could be inherited. An important proponent in Germany was Ernst Haeckel, who popularized Darwin's thought (and personal interpretation of it) and used it as well to contribute to a new creed, the monist movement.\n\nThe term Darwinism was coined by Thomas Henry Huxley in his March 1861 review of \"On the Origin of Species\", and by the 1870s it was used to describe a range of concepts of evolution or development, without any specific commitment to Charles Darwin's theory of natural selection.\n\nThe first use of the phrase \"social Darwinism\" was in Joseph Fisher's 1877 article on \"The History of Landholding in Ireland\" which was published in the \"Transactions of the Royal Historical Society\". Fisher was commenting on how a system for borrowing livestock which had been called \"tenure\" had led to the false impression that the early Irish had already evolved or developed land tenure;\nDespite the fact that Social Darwinism bears Charles Darwin's name, it is also linked today with others, notably Herbert Spencer, Thomas Malthus, and Francis Galton, the founder of eugenics. In fact, Spencer was not described as a social Darwinist until the 1930s, long after his death. The social Darwinism term first appeared in Europe in 1880, the journalist Emilie Gautier had coined the term with reference to a health conference in Berlin 1877. Around 1900 it was used by sociologists, some being opposed to the concept. The term was popularized in the United States in 1944 by the American historian Richard Hofstadter who used it in the ideological war effort against fascism to denote a reactionary creed which promoted competitive strife, racism and chauvinism. Hofstadter later also recognized (what he saw as) the influence of Darwinist and other evolutionary ideas upon those with collectivist views, enough to devise a term for the phenomenon, \"Darwinist collectivism\". Before Hofstadter's work the use of the term \"social Darwinism\" in English academic journals was quite rare. In fact,\n\nSocial Darwinism has many definitions, and some of them are incompatible with each other. As such, social Darwinism has been criticized for being an inconsistent philosophy, which does not lead to any clear political conclusions. For example, \"The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Politics\" states:Part of the difficulty in establishing sensible and consistent usage is that commitment to the biology of natural selection and to 'survival of the fittest' entailed nothing uniform either for sociological method or for political doctrine. A 'social Darwinist' could just as well be a defender of laissez-faire as a defender of state socialism, just as much an imperialist as a domestic eugenist.\n\nThe term \"Social Darwinism\" has rarely been used by advocates of the supposed ideologies or ideas; instead it has almost always been used pejoratively by its opponents. The term draws upon the common meaning of \"Darwinism\", which includes a range of evolutionary views, but in the late 19th century was applied more specifically to natural selection as first advanced by Charles Darwin to explain speciation in populations of organisms. The process includes competition between individuals for limited resources, popularly but inaccurately described by the phrase \"survival of the fittest\", a term coined by sociologist Herbert Spencer.\n\nCreationists have often maintained that Social Darwinism—leading to policies designed to reward the most competitive—is a logical consequence of \"Darwinism\" (the theory of natural selection in biology).\nBiologists and historians have stated that this is a fallacy of appeal to nature and should not be taken to imply that this phenomenon ought to be used as a moral guide in human society. While there are historical links between the popularization of Darwin's theory and forms of social Darwinism, social Darwinism is not a necessary consequence of the principles of biological evolution.\n\nWhile the term has been applied to the claim that Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection can be used to understand the social endurance of a nation or country, Social Darwinism commonly refers to ideas that predate Darwin's publication of \"On the Origin of Species\". Others whose ideas are given the label include the 18th century clergyman Thomas Malthus, and Darwin's cousin Francis Galton who founded eugenics towards the end of the 19th century.\n\nThe expansion of the British Empire fitted in with the broader notion of social Darwinism used from the 1870s onwards to account for the remarkable and universal phenomenon of \"the Anglo-Saxon overflowing his boundaries\", as phrased by the late-Victorian sociologist Benjamin Kidd in \"Social Evolution\", published in 1894. The concept also proved useful to justify what was seen by some as the inevitable extermination of \"the weaker races who disappear before the stronger\" not so much \"through the effects of … our vices upon them\" as \"what may be called the virtues of our civilisation.\"\n\nHerbert Spencer's ideas, like those of evolutionary progressivism, stemmed from his reading of Thomas Malthus, and his later theories were influenced by those of Darwin. However, Spencer's major work, \"Progress: Its Law and Cause\" (1857), was released two years before the publication of Darwin's \"On the Origin of Species\", and \"First Principles\" was printed in 1860.\n\nIn \"The Social Organism\" (1860), Spencer compares society to a living organism and argues that, just as biological organisms evolve through natural selection, society evolves and increases in complexity through analogous processes.\n\nIn many ways, Spencer's theory of cosmic evolution has much more in common with the works of Lamarck and Auguste Comte's positivism than with Darwin's.\n\nJeff Riggenbach argues that Spencer's view was that culture and education made a sort of Lamarckism possible and notes that Herbert Spencer was a proponent of private charity. However, the legacy of his social Darwinism was less than charitable.\nSpencer's work also served to renew interest in the work of Malthus. While Malthus's work does not itself qualify as social Darwinism, his 1798 work \"An Essay on the Principle of Population\", was incredibly popular and widely read by social Darwinists. In that book, for example, the author argued that as an increasing population would normally outgrow its food supply, this would result in the starvation of the weakest and a Malthusian catastrophe.\n\nAccording to Michael Ruse, Darwin read Malthus' famous \"Essay on a Principle of Population\" in 1838, four years after Malthus' death. Malthus himself anticipated the social Darwinists in suggesting that charity could exacerbate social problems.\n\nAnother of these social interpretations of Darwin's biological views, later known as eugenics, was put forth by Darwin's cousin, Francis Galton, in 1865 and 1869. Galton argued that just as physical traits were clearly inherited among generations of people, the same could be said for mental qualities (genius and talent). Galton argued that social morals needed to change so that heredity was a conscious decision in order to avoid both the over-breeding by less fit members of society and the under-breeding of the more fit ones.\nIn Galton's view, social institutions such as welfare and insane asylums were allowing inferior humans to survive and reproduce at levels faster than the more \"superior\" humans in respectable society, and if corrections were not soon taken, society would be awash with \"inferiors\". Darwin read his cousin's work with interest, and devoted sections of \"Descent of Man\" to discussion of Galton's theories. Neither Galton nor Darwin, though, advocated any eugenic policies restricting reproduction, due to their Whiggish distrust of government.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche's philosophy addressed the question of artificial selection, yet Nietzsche's principles did not concur with Darwinian theories of natural selection. Nietzsche's point of view on sickness and health, in particular, opposed him to the concept of biological adaptation as forged by Spencer's \"fitness\". Nietzsche criticized Haeckel, Spencer, and Darwin, sometimes under the same banner by maintaining that in specific cases, sickness was necessary and even helpful. Thus, he wrote:\n\nWherever progress is to ensue, deviating natures are of greatest importance. Every progress of the whole must be preceded by a partial weakening. The strongest natures retain the type, the weaker ones help to advance it.\n\nSomething similar also happens in the individual. There is rarely a degeneration, a truncation, or even a vice or any physical or moral loss without an advantage somewhere else. In a warlike and restless clan, for example, the sicklier man may have occasion to be alone, and may therefore become quieter and wiser; the one-eyed man will have one eye the stronger; the blind man will see deeper inwardly, and certainly hear better. To this extent, the famous theory of the survival of the fittest does not seem to me to be the only viewpoint from which to explain the progress of strengthening of a man or of a race. \n\nErnst Haeckel's recapitulation theory was not Darwinism, but rather attempted to combine the ideas of Goethe, Lamarck and Darwin. It was adopted by emerging social sciences to support the concept that non-European societies were \"primitive\" in an early stage of development towards the European ideal, but since then it has been heavily refuted on many fronts Haeckel's works led to the formation of the Monist League in 1904 with many prominent citizens among its members, including the Nobel Prize winner Wilhelm Ostwald.\n\nThe simpler aspects of social Darwinism followed the earlier Malthusian ideas that humans, especially males, require competition in their lives in order to survive in the future. Further, the poor should have to provide for themselves and not be given any aid. However, amidst this climate, most social Darwinists of the early twentieth century actually supported better working conditions and salaries. Such measures would grant the poor a better chance to provide for themselves yet still distinguish those who are capable of succeeding from those who are poor out of laziness, weakness, or inferiority.\n\n\"Social Darwinism\" was first described by Oscar Schmidt of the University of Strasbourg, reporting at a scientific and medical conference held in Munich in 1877. He noted how socialists, although opponents of Darwin's theory, used it to add force to their political arguments. Schmidt's essay first appeared in English in \"Popular Science\" in March 1879. There followed an anarchist tract published in Paris in 1880 entitled \"Le darwinisme social\" by Émile Gautier. However, the use of the term was very rare—at least in the English-speaking world (Hodgson, 2004)—until the American historian Richard Hofstadter published his influential \"Social Darwinism in American Thought\" (1944) during World War II.\n\nHypotheses of social evolution and cultural evolution were common in Europe. The Enlightenment thinkers who preceded Darwin, such as Hegel, often argued that societies progressed through stages of increasing development. Earlier thinkers also emphasized conflict as an inherent feature of social life. Thomas Hobbes's 17th century portrayal of the state of nature seems analogous to the competition for natural resources described by Darwin. Social Darwinism is distinct from other theories of social change because of the way it draws Darwin's distinctive ideas from the field of biology into social studies.\n\nDarwin, unlike Hobbes, believed that this struggle for natural resources allowed individuals with certain physical and mental traits to succeed more frequently than others, and that these traits accumulated in the population over time, which under certain conditions could lead to the descendants being so different that they would be defined as a new species.\n\nHowever, Darwin felt that \"social instincts\" such as \"sympathy\" and \"moral sentiments\" also evolved through natural selection, and that these resulted in the strengthening of societies in which they occurred, so much so that he wrote about it in \"Descent of Man\":\nThe following proposition seems to me in a high degree probable—namely, that any animal whatever, endowed with well-marked social instincts, the parental and filial affections being here included, would inevitably acquire a moral sense or conscience, as soon as its intellectual powers had become as well, or nearly as well developed, as in man. For, firstly, the social instincts lead an animal to take pleasure in the society of its fellows, to feel a certain amount of sympathy with them, and to perform various services for them.\n\nSpencer proved to be a popular figure in the 1880s primarily because his application of evolution to areas of human endeavor promoted an optimistic view of the future as inevitably becoming better. In the United States, writers and thinkers of the gilded age such as Edward L. Youmans, William Graham Sumner, John Fiske, John W. Burgess, and others developed theories of social evolution as a result of their exposure to the works of Darwin and Spencer.\n\nIn 1883, Sumner published a highly influential pamphlet entitled \"What Social Classes Owe to Each Other\", in which he insisted that the social classes owe each other nothing, synthesizing Darwin's findings with free enterprise Capitalism for his justification. According to Sumner, those who feel an obligation to provide assistance to those unequipped or under-equipped to compete for resources, will lead to a country in which the weak and inferior are encouraged to breed more like them, eventually dragging the country down. Sumner also believed that the best equipped to win the struggle for existence was the American businessman, and concluded that taxes and regulations serve as dangers to his survival. This pamphlet makes no mention of Darwinism, and only refers to Darwin in a statement on the meaning of liberty, that \"There never has been any man, from the primitive barbarian up to a Humboldt or a Darwin, who could do as he had a mind to.\"\n\nSumner never fully embraced Darwinian ideas, and some contemporary historians do not believe that Sumner ever actually believed in social Darwinism. The great majority of American businessmen rejected the anti-philanthropic implications of the theory. Instead they gave millions to build schools, colleges, hospitals, art institutes, parks and many other institutions. Andrew Carnegie, who admired Spencer, was the leading philanthropist in the world (1890–1920), and a major leader against imperialism and warfare.\n\nH. G. Wells was heavily influenced by Darwinist thoughts, and novelist Jack London wrote stories of survival that incorporated his views on social Darwinism. Film director Stanley Kubrick has been described as having held social Darwinist opinions.\n\nSocial Darwinism has influenced political, public health and social movements in Japan since the late 19th and early 20th century. Social Darwinism was originally brought to Japan through the works of Francis Galton and Ernst Haeckel as well as United States, British and French Lamarkian eugenic written studies of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Eugenism as a science was hotly debated at the beginning of the 20th century, in \"Jinsei-Der Mensch\", the first eugenics journal in the empire. As Japan sought to close ranks with the west, this practice was adopted wholesale along with colonialism and its justifications.\n\nSocial Darwinism was formally introduced to China through the translation by Yan Fu of Huxley's \"Evolution and Ethics\", in the course of an extensive series of translations of influential Western thought. Yan's translation strongly impacted Chinese scholars because he added national elements not found in the original. He understood Spencer's sociology as \"not merely analytical and descriptive, but prescriptive as well\", and saw Spencer building on Darwin, whom Yan summarized thus:\nBy the 1920s, social Darwinism found expression in the promotion of eugenics by the Chinese sociologist Pan Guangdan.\nWhen Chiang Kai-shek started the New Life movement in 1934, he\n\nSocial evolution theories in Germany gained large popularity in the 1860s and had a strong antiestablishment connotation first. Social Darwinism allowed people to counter the connection of \"Thron und Altar\", the intertwined establishment of clergy and nobility, and provided as well the idea of progressive change and evolution of society as a whole. Ernst Haeckel propagated both Darwinism as a part of natural history and as a suitable base for a modern Weltanschauung, a world view based on scientific reasoning in his Monist League. Friedrich von Hellwald had a strong role in popularizing it in Austria. Darwin's work served as a catalyst to popularize evolutionary thinking. Darwin himself called Haeckel's connection between Socialism and Evolution through Natural Selection \"a foolish idea prevailing\" in Germany.\n\nA sort of aristocratic turn, the use of the struggle for life as base of social darwinism \"sensu stricto\" came up after 1900 with Alexander Tilles 1895 work Entwicklungsethik (ethics of evolution) which asked to move \"from Darwin till Nietzsche\". Further interpretations moved to ideologies propagating a racist and hierarchical society and provided ground for the later radical versions of social Darwinism.\n\nSocial Darwinism is often cited as an ideological justification for much of 18th/19th century European enslavement and colonization of Third World countries; it has often even found its way into the intellectual foundations of public education in neo-colonized countries.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52854681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52854681", "title": "Stane Granda", "text": "Stane Granda\n\nStane Granda (born April 8, 1948) is a Slovene historian.\n\nGranda was born in Novo Mesto. He received a bachelor's degree in history from the University of Ljubljana's Faculty of Arts in 1973. From 1973 to 1979 he worked at the Institute of Contemporary History, and since then has worked at the Milko Kos Historical Institute at the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts. He primarily studies rural history and the effects of the Revolutions of 1848 in Slovenian territory.\n\nIn January 2006, Granda was selected to head the programming management board at the broadcaster RTV Slovenija.\n\n"}
{"id": "20238865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20238865", "title": "Studien zu Fundmünzen der Antike", "text": "Studien zu Fundmünzen der Antike\n\nStudien zu Fundmünzen der Antike is a monograph series covering the analysis of ancient coin finds in an archaeological context. Monographs or individual contributions to monographs are published in English, French, Italian, or German. The series was established in 1979. From 1979 to 2000 it was published by Gebr. Mann Verlag (Berlin). Since 2000, the series is published by Philipp von Zabern Verlag (Mainz). The series editors are and (Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main). The series is produced under the auspices of the Fundmünzen der Antike project (Akademie der Wissenschaften und der Literatur). The project is also responsible for another monograph series, \"Fundmünzen der römischen Zeit in Deutschland\", which catalogs coin finds from excavations, surveys, coin hoards, and local collections in the area of modern Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "614096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=614096", "title": "Tacna", "text": "Tacna\n\nTacna is a city in southern Peru and the regional capital of the Tacna Region. A very commercially active city, it is located only north of the border with Arica y Parinacota Region from Chile, inland from the Pacific Ocean and in the valley of the Caplina River. It is Peru's tenth most populous city.\n\nInitially called San Pedro de Tacna, it has gained a reputation for patriotism, with many monuments and streets named after heroes of Peru's struggle for independence (1821–1824) and the War of the Pacific (1879–1883). Residents of Tacna are known in Spanish as \"\".\n\nFrancisco Antonio De Zela, a royal accountant (similar in function to a modern-day income tax auditor), initiated the push for Peruvian Independence from Spain in 1811 in Tacna, leading to a series of commemorative actions for the city, culminating in the 1828 declaration of Tacna as the \"Heroic City\" (\"\") by President José de La Mar.\n\nIt was the capital of the short-lived Peru-Bolivian Confederation (1836–1839)\nTacna's economic prosperity attracted a wave of immigrants from Italy. Today, their Italian Peruvian descendants live in the city and many of them still have Italian surnames. This era of successful commerce and agriculture ended drastically with the start of the War of the Pacific.\n\nDuring the war, the cities of Tacna and Arica were occupied by the Chilean Army. A peace agreement, the Treaty of Ancón, was signed in 1883. Under the terms of the treaty, Chile was to occupy the provinces of Tacna and Arica for ten years, after which a plebiscite was to be held to determine the region's sovereignty. Tacna remained under Chilean control for 50 years, in Chilean groups and authorities lead a campaign of Chilenization in an attempt to persuade the local population to abandon their Peruvian past and accept Chilean nationality.\n\nHowever, Peruvian nationalists ensured that the Chilean propaganda failed and the planned plebiscite was never held. Finally, in 1929, the Treaty of Lima was signed in which Chile kept Arica, whilst Peru reacquired Tacna and receiving $6 million indemnity and other concessions.\n\nSome of the important persons that lived in Tacna during the Chilean administration is Salvador Allende and his family, they lived eight years in the city. Salvador lived in Tacna since he was a baby, he arrived in 1908 and he studied in the Tacna School (Liceo de Tacna).\n\nToday, Tacna is a mostly commercial city with many immigrants from the Puno Region living there. Its economy is based on mercantile activities with the north of Chile (Arica and Iquique). Since it is part of a duty-free zone, Tacna has come to rival Arequipa as southern Peru's main business area. The city has one of the largest artifact markets in the world with imports from Japan and China, and traditional Peruvian handicrafts.\n\nTacna has a mild desert climate (\"BWn\", according to the Köppen climate classification).\n\nTacna is served by a cross-border standard gauge railway to Arica, Chile.\n\nIt is also the location of the National Railway Museum of Peru.\n\nTacna is served by the Crnl. FAP. Carlos Ciriani Santa Rosa International Airport, with flights to Arequipa and Lima.\nTacna is also served by Peru Highway 1 which heads south to Arica and north to Moquegua.\n\nMany monuments are located in this city, including the arch of the Alto de la Alianza, which shows the significance of this town.\n\nOther monuments include a neo-renaissance Cathedral, the Courthouse, the Alameda Bolognesi Walkway and the caves of Toquepala, where archaeologists have found some of the oldest human remains in Peru.\n\nThe most important festivity in the city is the \"Semana de Tacna\" (\"Tacna Week\"), which runs from August 25–30.\n\nOn August 28, a large Peruvian flag is shown throughout the city during the \"\", which celebrates the anniversary of the reincorporation of Tacna into Peruvian sovereignty and is one of the most important patriotic demonstrations in the whole country. This tradition started in 1901, during the Chilean occupation of Tacna, by a group of \"tacneños\" who defied the prohibition of showing Peruvian flags imposed by the Chilean authorities.\n\nThere is an agrarian and industrial fair as part of these celebrations.\n\nIn September, the festival of the Señor de Locumba is celebrated, which draws thousands of faithful people from all over the world.\n\nThe major religion in Tacna is Catholicism\n\n\n"}
{"id": "458078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=458078", "title": "Tholin", "text": "Tholin\n\nTholins (after the Greek (\"\") \"hazy\" or \"muddy\"; from the ancient Greek word meaning \"sepia ink\") is an informal name given to a wide variety of organic compounds formed by solar ultraviolet irradiation or cosmic rays from simple carbon-containing compounds such as carbon dioxide (), methane () or ethane (), often in combination with nitrogen (). Tholins do not form naturally on modern-day Earth, but they are found in great abundance on the surface of icy bodies in the outer Solar System, and as reddish aerosols in the atmosphere of outer Solar System planets and moons.\n\nWhen in the presence of water, tholins may facilitate the formation of prebiotic chemistry to take place, and has implication of the origins of life on Earth and possibly, on other planets. As particles in an atmosphere, tholins scatter light and can affect habitability.\n\nThe term \"tholin\" was coined by astronomer Carl Sagan and his colleague Bishun Khare to describe the difficult-to-characterize substances they obtained in his Miller-Urey-type experiments on the methane-containing gas mixtures such as those found in Titan's atmosphere. Their paper proposing the name \"tholin\" said:\nFor the past decade we have been producing in our laboratory a variety of complex organic solids from mixtures of the cosmically abundant gases , , , , HCHO, and . The product, synthesized by ultraviolet (UV) light or spark discharge, is a brown, sometimes sticky, residue, which has been called, because of its resistance to conventional analytical chemistry, \"intractable polymer\". [...] We propose, as a model-free descriptive term, ‘tholins’ (Gk ϴὸλος, muddy; but also ϴoλòς, vault or dome), although we were tempted by the phrase ‘star-tar’.\n\nTholins are not one specific compound but rather are descriptive of a spectrum of molecules, including heteropolymers, that give a reddish, organic surface covering on certain planetary surfaces. Sagan and Khare note \"The properties of tholins will depend on the energy source used and the initial abundances of precursors, but a general physical and chemical similarity among the various tholins is evident.\"\n\nSome researchers in the field prefer a narrowed definition of tholins, for example S. Hörst wrote: \"Personally, I try to use the word 'tholins' only when describing the laboratory-produced samples, in part because we do not really know yet how similar the material we produce in the lab is to the material found on places like Titan or Triton (or Pluto!).\" French researchers also use the term tholins only when describing the laboratory-produced samples as analogues.\n\nTholins may be a major constituent of the interstellar medium. On Titan, their chemistry is initiated at high altitudes and participates in the formation of solid organic particles. Their key elements are carbon, nitrogen, and hydrogen. Laboratory infrared spectroscopy analysis of experimentally synthetized tholins has confirmed earlier identifications of chemical groups present, including primary amines, nitriles, and alkyl portions such as / forming complex disordered macromolecular solids. Laboratory tests generated complex solids formed from exposure of : gaseous mixtures to electrical discharge in cold plasma conditions, reminiscent of the famous Miller–Urey experiment conducted in 1952.\n\nAs illustrated to the right, tholins are thought to form in nature through a chain of chemical reactions known as pyrolysis and radiolysis. This begins with the dissociation and ionization of molecular nitrogen () and methane () by energetic particles and solar radiation. This is followed by the formation of ethylene, ethane, acetylene, hydrogen cyanide, and other small simple molecules and small positive ions. Further reactions form benzene and other organic molecules, and their polymerization leads to the formation of an aerosol of heavier molecules, which then condense and precipitate on the planetary surface below. Tholins formed at low pressure tend to contain nitrogen atoms in the interior of their molecules, while tholins formed at high pressure are more likely to have nitrogen atoms located in terminal positions.\n\nThese atmospherically-derived substances are distinct from \"ice tholin II\", which are formed instead by irradiation (radiolysis) of clathrates of water and organic compounds such as methane () or ethane (). The radiation-induced synthesis on ice are non-dependant on temperature.\n\nSome researchers have speculated that Earth may have been seeded by organic compounds early in its development by tholin-rich comets, providing the raw material necessary for life to develop (see Miller-Urey experiment for discussion related to this.) Tholins do not exist naturally on present-day Earth due to the oxidizing properties of the free oxygen component of its atmosphere ever since the Great Oxygenation Event around 2.4 billion years ago.\n\nLaboratory experiments suggest that tholins near large pools of liquid water that might persist for thousands of years might facilitate the formation of prebiotic chemistry to take place, and has implication of the origins of life on Earth and possibly, on other planets. Also, as particles in the atmosphere of an exoplanet, tholins affect the light scatter and act as a screen for protecting planetary surfaces from ultraviolet radiation, affecting habitability. Laboratory simulations found derived residues related to amino acids as well as urea, with important astrobiological implications.\n\nOn Earth, a wide variety of soil bacteria are able to use laboratory-produced tholins as their sole source of carbon. Tholins could have been the first microbial food for heterotrophic microorganisms before autotrophy evolved.\n\nSagan and Khare note the presence of tholins through multiple locations: \"as a constituent of the Earth's primitive oceans and therefore relevant to the origin of life; as a component of red aerosols in the atmospheres of the outer planets and Titan; present in comets, carbonaceous chondrites asteroids, and pre-planetary solar nebulae; and as a major constituent of the interstellar medium.\" The surfaces of comets, centaurs, and many icy moons and Kuiper-belt objects in the outer Solar System are rich in deposits of tholins.\n\nTitan tholins are nitrogen-rich organic substances produced by the irradiation of the gaseous mixtures of nitrogen and methane found in the atmosphere and surface of Titan. Titan's atmosphere is about 97% nitrogen, 2.7±0.1% methane and the remaining trace amounts of other gases. In the case of Titan, the haze and orange-red color of its atmosphere is thought to be caused by the presence of tholins.\n\nColored regions on Jupiter's satellite Europa are thought to be tholins. The morphology of Europa's impact craters and ridges is suggestive of fluidized material welling up from the fractures where pyrolysis and radiolysis take place. In order to generate colored tholins on Europa there must be a source of materials (carbon, nitrogen, and water) and a source of energy to make the reactions occur. Impurities in the water ice crust of Europa are presumed both to emerge from the interior as cryovolcanic events that resurface the body, and to accumulate from space as interplanetary dust.\n\nThe extensive dark areas on the trailing hemisphere of Saturn's moon Rhea are thought to be deposited tholins.\n\nNeptune's moon Triton is observed to have the reddish color characteristic of tholins. Triton's atmosphere is mostly nitrogen, with trace amounts of methane and carbon monoxide.\n\nTholins occur on the dwarf planet Pluto and are responsible for red colors as well as the blue tint of the atmosphere of Pluto. The reddish-brown cap of the north pole of Charon, the largest of five moons of Pluto, is thought to be composed of tholins, produced from methane, nitrogen and related gases released from the atmosphere of Pluto and transferred over about distance to the orbiting moon.\n\nIn February 2017, organic compounds were detected on the dwarf planet Ceres, later identified as tholins.\n\nMakemake exhibits methane, large amounts of ethane and tholins, as well as smaller amounts of ethylene, acetylene and high-mass alkanes may be present, most likely created by photolysis of methane by solar radiation.\n\nThe reddish color typical of tholins is characteristic of many Trans-Neptunian Objects, including plutinos in the outer Solar System such as 28978 Ixion. Spectral reflectances of Centaurs also suggest the presence of tholins on their surfaces.\n\nTholins were also detected \"in situ\" by the \"Rosetta\" mission to comet 67P/Churyumov–Gerasimenko. Tholins are not typically characteristic of main-belt asteroids, but have been detected on the asteroid 24 Themis.\n\nTholins might have also been detected in the stellar system of the young star HR 4796A using the Near-Infrared Camera and Multi-Object Spectrometer (NICMOS) aboard the Hubble Space Telescope. The HR 4796 system is approximately 220 light years from Earth.\n\nModels show that even when far from UV radiation of a star, cosmic ray doses may be fully sufficient to convert carbon-containing ice grains entirely to complex organics in less than the lifetime of the typical interstellar cloud.\n\n"}
{"id": "11267401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11267401", "title": "Timeline of Barbadian history", "text": "Timeline of Barbadian history\n\nThis is a timeline of Barbadian history, comprising important legal and territorial changes and political events in Barbados and its predecessor states. To read about the background to these events, see History of Barbados and History of the Caribbean. See also the list of Governors and Prime Ministers of Barbados.\n\n"}
{"id": "52572580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52572580", "title": "Timeline of Brazilian history", "text": "Timeline of Brazilian history\n\nThis is a timeline of Brazilian history, comprising important legal and territorial changes and political events in Brazil and its predecessor states. To read about the background to these events, see History of Brazil.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29456401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29456401", "title": "Vladimir Guerrier", "text": "Vladimir Guerrier\n\nVladimir Ivanovich Guerrier (; – 30 June 1919) was a Russian historian, professor of history at Moscow State University from 1868 to 1904. As the founder of the \"Courses Guerrier\", he was a leading instigator of higher education for women in Russia.\n\nHe was also a member of the Moscow City Duma, the State Council of Imperial Russia and the Octobrist Party.\n\nGuerrier's name is sometimes transliterated from the Cyrillic into the Roman alphabet as Ger'e, but he himself preferred Guerrier. When publishing works in German, he used the form W. I. Guerrier (the \"W\" representing \"Wladimir\").\n\nBorn in 1837 in Khovrino, a suburb of Moscow, Guerrier was descended from Huguenot immigrants to Russia who had moved from Hamburg. An uncle, Jean François Guerrier, otherwise Frantz Ivanovitch Guerrier, had arrived in the time of Catherine the Great to work as a millwright. Guerrier lost both parents as a small child and was brought up by relations as a Lutheran. He received his secondary education in Moscow at the parish school of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Peter and Paul on Kozmodemyansk Street, now Starosadskiy Lane. In 1854 he entered the historical-philological faculty of the Moscow State University, where he was a student of Granovsky. Upon completing this course, he was retained by the university to prepare for a professorship, and at the same time he became a teacher of literature and history to the first Moscow Cadet Corps. In 1862, he defended his master's thesis: \"The struggle for the Polish throne in 1733\", and then travelled abroad, spending three years in Germany, Italy and Paris. In 1865 he was elected a professor in the department of general history at Moscow University and began teaching there. Guerrier was a lifelong friend of the philosopher Vladimir Solovyov.\n\nA strong campaigner for the independence of universities, in an article in \"Vestnik Evropy\" in 1876, Guerrier expressed the opposition of most Russian university professors in attacking proposals by Liubimov to transplant important features of the German system of university education into Russia. In 1879, Count Dmitry Tolstoy abolished the professors' disciplinary courts, but the subsequent University Statute of 1884 proved unworkable and had to be repealed.\n\nGuerrier was not considered an impressive public speaker. One writer has called him \"prolix, fairly boring\", contrasting him with a riveting performance by Kovalevsky.\n\nGuerrier wrote in Russian, German, and French. His study of Mably and Jacobinism appeared in French in 1886 and was published in Paris, while a major work on Leibniz appeared in German. Critics have suggested that he turned to the French Revolution \"to stigmatize opponents of the Russian monarchy\".\n\nGuerrier died in 1919 and is buried in Moscow at the Pyatnitskaya cemetery.\n\nHis daughter Elena Vladimirovna Guerrier (1868–1943), who became a schoolteacher, worked also as a translator.\n\nIn Moscow, in 1872, with the consent of Count Dmitry Tolstoy, the Russian Minister of Education, Guerrier founded the Higher Courses for Women (\"vysshie zhenskie kursy\", or \"Courses Guerrier\"), and headed them until 1905. In his lifetime, the courses developed into the Second Moscow State University.\n\nGuerrier's concern for the education of women was primarily with training good conversationalists, mothers, and schoolteachers, and he advised one new class to avoid politics. He showed a paternalistic attitude towards women, long after they had shown they could master university-level courses. However, after Tolstoy had refused to give graduates of the courses teaching rights, in 1876 and 1877 Guerrier petitioned the minister to change his mind, arguing that a growing number of unmarried women were without families to support them, so that there was an economic imperative for employment rights for such women.\n\nAt one point there was controversy about Guerrier among the \"kursistki\", as the female students were known. The cry went up \"Let's catcall Guerrier!\" after it had been alleged that as director of the Higher Courses he had treated women \"like an Oriental despot\". This charge, described in Guerrier's defence as \"an absurd and malicious slander\", caused a bitter division between two rival groups of women known as the 'politicians' and the 'academics'.\n\nBy his own account, during his student years Guerrier was a radical, but he began his academic career as a liberal. After the assassination of Alexander II on , he became a conservative, with the German historian Hecker calling him \"a conservative-liberal Westernizer\". In 1905, he joined the Octobrists.\n\nIn the 1870s, Russian liberals like Guerrier and Chicherin accused Karl Marx of being narrowly concerned with the proletariat and indifferent to the entrepreneur's more important \"psychic labour\".\n\nFrom 1876 Guerrier was active in the Moscow City Duma, making social welfare his special field of expertise. He was seen as a member of the \"educated\" group of members, and on one occasion remarked witheringly on the petty bourgeois members' habits of \"bowing humbly to eminent merchants\", \"preferring silence in debates\", and \"voting as their leaders told them\". He was a member of the Grot Commission on help for the destitute and a founder of 'Guardianship of Work Relief'. In 1894 he was elected to chair a committee responsible for the welfare of the poor.\n\nIn 1903, Guerrier and a colleague named Popov, as members of the City Duma, proposed that binding regulations were needed to control the exploitation of waiters and other catering staff by their employers.\n\nAfter the Russian Constitution of 1906 came into effect, six members of the State Council of Imperial Russia were to be elected to it by the Russian Academy of Sciences, and Guerrier was one of those the Academy appointed that year.\n\n"}
