{"id": "30875850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30875850", "title": "Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb", "text": "Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb\n\nAl-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (), or AQIM, is an Islamist militant organization (of al-Qaeda) which aims to overthrow the Algerian government and institute an Islamic state. To that end, it is currently engaged in an anti-government campaign.\n\nThe group originated as the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC). It has since declared its intention to attack European (including Spanish and French) and American targets. The group has been designated a terrorist organization by the United Nations, Australia, Canada, Russia, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and the United States.\n\nMembership is mostly drawn from the Algerian and local Saharan communities (such as the Tuaregs and Berabiche tribal clans of Mali), as well as Moroccans from city suburbs of the North African country. The leadership are mainly Algerians. The group has also been suspected of having links with the Horn of Africa-based militant group Al-Shabaab.\n\nAQIM has focused on kidnapping for ransom as a means of raising funds and is estimated to have raised more than $50 million in the last decade.\n\nOn 2 March 2017, the Sahara branch of AQIM merged with Macina Liberation Front, Ansar Dine and Al-Mourabitoun into Jama'at Nasr al-Islam wal Muslimin.\n\nThe group's official name is Organization of al-Qa'ida in the Land of the Islamic Maghreb (\"Qaedat al-Jihad fi Bilad al-Maghrib al-Islami\"), often shortened to Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM, from French \"al-Qaïda au Maghreb islamique, AQMI\"). Prior to January 2007 it was known as the \"Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat\" ( ') and the French acronym \"GSPC\" (').\n\nIn January 2007, the GSPC announced that it would now operate under the name of Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM).\n\nOn 19 January 2009, the UK newspaper \"The Sun\" reported that there had been an outbreak of bubonic plague at an AQIM training camp in the Tizi Ouzou province in Algeria. According to \"The Sun\", at least forty AQIM militiamen died from the disease. The surviving AQIM members from the training camp reportedly fled to other areas of Algeria hoping to escape infection. The \"Washington Times\", in an article based on a senior U.S. intelligence official source, claimed a day later that the incident was not related to bubonic plague, but was an accident involving either a biological or chemical agent.\n\nAl Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb is one of the region's wealthiest, best-armed militant groups due to the payment of ransom demands by humanitarian organizations and Western governments. It is reported that 90 per cent of AQIM resources come from ransoms paid in return for the release of hostages. Oumar Ould Hamaha said:\n\nIn December 2012, one of AQIM's top commanders, Mokhtar Belmokhtar, split off from AQIM and took his fighters with him, executing the In Amenas hostage crisis in Algeria weeks later, just after France launched Operation Serval in Mali. Belmokhtar later claimed he acted on behalf of Al Qaeda. In December 2015, Belmokhtar's splinter group, Al-Mourabitoun rejoined AQIM, according to audio statements released by both groups.\n\nA top commander of AQIM, Abdelhamid Abou Zeid, was reported killed by French and Chadian forces in northern Mali on February 25, 2013. This was confirmed by AQIM in June 2013.\n\nThe \"FrontPage Magazine\" reported that Sub-Saharan Africans are treated with contempt by the predominantly Arab-led AQIM. The AQIM leadership are said to be mainly Algerians, while no Sub-Saharan African is known to possess any leadership position. Robert Fowler, a former Canadian diplomat, who was held hostage by AQIM for 130 days in the Sahara Desert in 2010, wrote that \"There was a big gulf in the AQIM between those who were black and those who were not. They preached equality, but did not practice it. Sub-Saharan Africans were clearly second class in the eyes of AQIM.\" The article went on to say that an AQIM splinter faction, the Movement for Oneness and Jihad in West Africa separated itself from the group due to the marginalization of its Sub-Saharan African members.\n\nThe United States National Counterterrorism Center stated that AQIM had a reputation for holding cultural and racial insensitivities towards Sub-Saharan Africans. The NCTC maintained that some recruits \"claimed that AQIM was clearly racist against some black members from West Africa because they were only sent against lower-level targets.\" The bulletin goes on to say that former AQIM commander Mokhtar Belmokhtar in August 2009 stated “he wanted to attract black African recruits because they would agree more readily than Arabs to becoming suicide bombers and because poor economic and social conditions made them ripe for recruitment.”\n\nBy 2016, AQIM had reportedly recruited large numbers of young sub-Saharan Africans, with attacks like the 2016 Grand-Bassam shootings in Ivory Coast being carried out by black AQIM members. AQIM commander Yahya Abou el-Hammam, in an interview with a Mauritanian website, was quoted as saying \"Today, the mujahideen have built up brigades and battalions with sons of the region, our black brothers, Peuls, Bambaras and Songhai\".\n\nKey leaders and operatives of this group include Yahya Abu el Hammam, who serves as a senior leader of al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), planning operations and kidnapping Westerners in North and West Africa. Wanted by the US Rewards for Justice Program with a $5 million bounty for his arrest. Hammam has played a key role in perpetuating AQIM's terrorist activities in West Africa and Mali, and participated in several AQIM terrorist attacks in Mauritania. In December 2013 Yahya Abu Hammam gave an interview to Aljazeera in which he threatened France's military intervention in the Sahara would open \"the gates of hell for the French people.\" In July 2010, Hammam was reportedly involved in the killing of a seventy-eight year old French hostage in Niger. In 2006, Hammam was sentenced to death in absentia by Algerian authorities for terrorism-related charges.\n\nAllegations of the former GSPCs links to al-Qaeda predated the September 11 attacks. As followers of a Qutbist strand of Salafist jihadism, the members of the GSPC were thought to share al-Qaeda's general ideological outlook. After the deposition of Hassan Hattab, various leaders of the group pledged allegiance to al-Qaeda.\n\nIn November 2007, Nigerian authorities arrested five men for alleged possession of seven sticks of dynamite and other explosives. Nigerian prosecutors alleged that three of the accused had trained for two years with the then Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat in Algeria. In January 2008 the Dakar Rally was cancelled due to threats made by associated terrorist organizations.\n\nIn late 2011, the splinter group Movement for Oneness and Jihad in West Africa was founded in order to spread \"jihadi\" activities further into West Africa. Their military leader is Omar Ould Hamaha, a former AQIM fighter.\n\nAccording to U.S. Army General Carter Ham, Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, the Somalia-based Al-Shabaab, and the Nigeria-based Boko Haram were as of June 2012 attempting to synchronize and coordinate their activities in terms of sharing funds, training and explosives. Ham added that he believed that the collaboration presented a threat to both U.S. homeland security and the local authorities. However, according to counter-terrorism specialist Rick Nelson with the Washington-based Center for Strategic International Studies, there was little evidence that the three groups were targeting U.S. areas, as each was primarily interested in establishing fundamentalist administrations in their respective regions.\n\nIn a 2013, Al Jazeera interview in Timbuktu, AQIM commander Talha claimed that his movement went to Niger, Algeria, Burkina Faso and Nigeria, to organize cells of AQIM. He explained their strategy: \"There are many people who have nothing, and you can reach them by the word of God, or by helping them.\"\n\nAl Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb operates a media outlet known as al-Andalus, which regularly releases propaganda videos showing AQIM operations, hostages, and statements from members.\n\nAccording to London-based risk analysis firm Stirling Assynt, AQIM issued a call for vengeance against Beijing for mistreatment of its Muslim minority following the July 2009 Ürümqi riots.\n\nAQIM voiced support for demonstrations against the Tunisian and Algerian Governments in a video released on 13 January 2011. Al Qaeda offered military aid and training to the demonstrators, calling on them to overthrow \"the corrupt, criminal and tyrannical\" regime, calling for \"retaliation\" against the Tunisian government, and also calling for the overthrow of Algerian president Abdelaziz Bouteflika. AQIM leader Abu Musab Abdul Wadud appeared in the video, calling for Islamic sharia law to be established in Tunisia. Al Qaeda has begun recruiting anti-government demonstrators, some of whom have previously fought against American forces in Iraq and Israeli forces in Gaza.\n\nAQIM endorsed efforts in Libya to topple the regime of Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, though it remains unclear how many fighters in Libya are loyal to al-Qaeda. Gaddafi seized on the expression of support and help for the rebel movement to blame al-Qaeda for fomenting the uprising.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "575910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=575910", "title": "Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 3rd Earl of Shaftesbury", "text": "Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 3rd Earl of Shaftesbury\n\nAnthony Ashley Cooper, 3rd Earl of Shaftesbury Bt (26 February 1671 – 16 February 1713) was an English politician, philosopher and writer.\n\nHe was born at Exeter House in London, the grandson of Anthony Ashley Cooper, 1st Earl of Shaftesbury, and son of Anthony Ashley Cooper, 2nd Earl of Shaftesbury. His mother was Lady Dorothy Manners, daughter of John Manners, 8th Earl of Rutland. According to a story told by the third Earl, the marriage was negotiated by John Locke, who was a trusted friend of the first Earl. The second Lord Shaftesbury has been traditionally, and possibly unfairly, regarded to have been both physically and mentally inadequate, although the letters sent by a youthful third Earl to both his parents reveal a rather more complex picture, not least the emotional manipulation attempted by his mother in refusing to see her son unless he cut off all ties to his father. At the age of three the future third Earl was made over to the formal guardianship of his grandfather. Locke, who in his capacity of medical attendant to the Ashley household, had already assisted at the child's birth, was now entrusted with the supervision of his education. This was conducted according to the principles enunciated in Locke's \"Thoughts concerning Education\" (1693), and the method of teaching Latin and Greek conversationally was pursued with such success by his instructress, Elizabeth Birch, that at the age of eleven, it is said, Ashley could read both languages with ease. Birch had moved to Clapham and Ashley spent some years there with her.\n\nIn November 1683, some months after the death of the first Earl, his father sent him to Winchester College as a warden's boarder. Being shy and mocked because of his grandfather, he appears to have been miserable at school. He left Winchester in 1686 for a course of foreign travel. This brought him into contact with artistic and classical associations which would strongly influence his character and opinions. On his travels he apparently did not seek the conversation of other young English gentlemen on their travels, but rather that of their tutors, with whom he could converse on congenial topics.\n\nIn 1689, the year after the \"Glorious Revolution\", Lord Ashley returned to England, and for nearly five years he appears to have led a quiet and studious life. There can be no doubt that the greater part of his attention was directed to the perusal of classical authors and to the attempt to realize the true spirit of classical antiquity. He had no intention, however, of becoming a recluse. He became parliamentary candidate for the borough of Poole and was returned on 21 May 1695. He soon distinguished himself by a speech in support of the Bill for Regulating Trials in Cases of Treason, one provision of which was that a person indicted for treason or misprision of treason should be allowed the assistance of counsel. Although a Whig, Ashley could not be depended on to give a party vote. He was always ready to support propositions from other quarters, if they appeared to him to promote the liberty of the subject and the independence of parliament. His poor health forced him to retire from parliament at the dissolution of July 1698. He suffered from asthma, a complaint which was aggravated by the London smoke. The following year, to escape the London environment, he purchased a property in Little Chelsea, adding a 50-foot extension to the existing building to house his bedchamber and Library, and planting fruit trees, and 'every kind of vine'. He sold the property to Narcissus Luttrell in 1710.\n\nLord Ashley now retired to the Netherlands, where he became acquainted with Jean Leclerc, Pierre Bayle, Benjamin Furly, the English Quaker merchant, at whose house Locke had resided during his stay at Rotterdam, and probably Limborch and the rest of the literary circle of which Locke had been a cherished and honoured member nine or ten years before. To Lord Ashley this society was probably far more congenial than his surroundings in England. Unrestrained conversation on the topics which most interested him—philosophy, politics, morals, religion—was at this time to be had in the Netherlands with less danger and in greater abundance than in any other country in the world. To the period of this sojourn in the Netherlands must probably be referred the surreptitious impression or publication of an imperfect edition of the \"Inquiry concerning Virtue\", from a rough draught, sketched when he was only twenty years of age. This liberty was taken, during his absence, by Toland.\n\nAfter an absence of over twelve months, Ashley returned to England, and soon succeeded his father as Earl of Shaftesbury. He took an active part, on the Whig side, in the general election of 1700–1701, and again, with more success, in the autumn election of 1701. At this time, he built a folly structure on the Shaftesbury Estate, known as the Philosopher's Tower. This folly sits in a field, clearly visible from the B3078 just south of Cranborne. It is thought that he did a lot of his philosophising in this tower, and from this suggestion it has become known as the Philosopher's Tower.\n\nIt is said that William III showed his appreciation of Shaftesbury's services on this latter occasion by offering him a secretaryship of state, which, however, his worsening health compelled him to decline. Had the King's life continued, Shaftesbury's influence at court would probably have been considerable. After the first few weeks of Anne's reign, Shaftesbury, who had been deprived of the vice-admiralty of Dorset, returned to his retired life, but his letters to Furly show that he retained a keen interest in politics.\n\nIn August 1703, he again settled in the Netherlands, in the air of which he seems, like Locke, to have had great faith. At Rotterdam he lived, he says in a letter to his steward Wheelock, at the rate of less than £200 a year, and yet had much to dispose of and spend beyond convenient living. He returned to England, much improved in health, in August 1704. Although he had received immediate benefit from his stay abroad, he was showing symptoms of consumption, and gradually became a confirmed invalid. His occupations were now almost exclusively literary, and from this time forward he was engaged in writing, completing or revising the treatises which were afterwards included in the \"Characteristics\". He continued, however, to take a warm interest in politics, both home and foreign, and especially in the war against France, of which he was an enthusiastic supporter.\n\nShaftesbury was nearly forty before he married, and even then he appears to have taken this step at the urgent instigation of his friends, mainly to supply a successor to the title. The object of his choice (or rather of his second choice, for an earlier project of marriage had shortly before fallen through) was Jane Ewer, the daughter of a Hertfordshire gentleman. The marriage took place in the autumn of 1709, and on 9 February 1711, was born at his house at Reigate, in Surrey, his only child and heir, the fourth Earl, to whose manuscript accounts we are in great part indebted for the details of his father's life. The match appears to have been happy, though Shaftesbury had little sentiment on the subject of married life.\n\nWith the exception of a \"Preface to the Sermons of Dr Whichcote\", one of the Cambridge Platonists or latitudinarians, published in 1698, Shaftesbury appears to have printed nothing himself till 1708. About this time the French Camisards attracted much attention. The Camisard revolts against the persecution of their Protestant religion were being severely repressed by the royal forces. In this context, Shaftesbury maintained that fanaticism was best defeated by raillery and good-humour. In support of this view he wrote a letter \"Concerning Enthusiasm to Lord Somers\", dated September 1707, which was published anonymously in the following year, and provoked several replies. In May 1709, he returned to the subject, and printed another letter, entitled \", an Essay on the Freedom of Wit and Humour\". In the same year he also published \"The Moralists, a Philosophical Rhapsody\", and in the following year \"Soliloquy, or Advice to an Author\". None of these pieces seems to have been printed either with his name or his initials. In 1711, the \"Characteristics of Men, Manners, Opinions, Times\" appeared in three volumes, also without any name or initials on the title-page, and without even the name of a printer. These volumes contain in addition to the four treatises already mentioned, \"Miscellaneous Reflections\", now first printed, and the \"Inquiry concerning Virtue and Merit\", described as formerly printed from an imperfect copy, now corrected and published intire, and as printed first in 1699.\n\nThe declining state of Shaftesbury's health rendered it necessary for him to seek a warmer climate and in July 1711 he set out for Italy. He settled at Naples in November, and lived there for more than a year. His principal occupation at this time must have consisted in preparing for the press a second edition of the \"Characteristics\", which appeared in 1713, soon after his death. The copy, carefully corrected in his own handwriting, is preserved in the British Library. He was also engaged, during his stay at Naples, in writing the little treatise (afterwards included in the \"Characteristics\") entitled \"A Notion of the Historical Draught or Tablature of the Judgment of Hercules\", and the letter concerning \"Design\". A little before his death he had also formed a scheme of writing a \"Discourse on the Arts of Painting, Sculpture, Etching, &c.\", but when he died he had made but little progress with it. Medals, and pictures, and antiquities, he writes to Furly, are our chief entertainments here. His conversation was with men of art and science, the virtuosi of this place.\n\nThe events preceding the Treaty of Utrecht, which he saw as paving the way for a base desertion of British allies, greatly troubled the last months of Shaftesbury's life. He did not, however, live to see the actual conclusion of the treaty (31 March 1713), as he died the month before, 4 February 1713. His body was brought back by sea to England and buried at Wimborne St Giles, the family seat in Dorsetshire. His only son, Anthony Ashley Cooper, 4th Earl of Shaftesbury, succeeded him in his titles and republished \"Characteristics\" in 1732. His great-grandson was the famous philanthropist, Anthony Ashley Cooper, 7th Earl of Shaftesbury.\n\nShaftesbury's amiability of character seems to have been one of his principal characteristics. Like Locke he had a peculiar pleasure in bringing forward young men. Among these may be especially mentioned Michael Ainsworth, a native of Wimborne St Giles, the young man who was the recipient of the Letters addressed to a student at the university, and was maintained by Shaftesbury at University College, Oxford. The interest which Shaftesbury took in his studies, and the desire that he should be specially fitted for the profession which he had selected, that of a clergyman of the Church of England, are marked features of the letters. Other protegés were Crell, a young Pole, the two young Furlys and Harry Wilkinson, a boy who was sent into Furly's office at Rotterdam, and to whom several of the letters still extant in the Record Office are addressed.\n\nIn the popular mind, Shaftesbury is generally regarded as a writer hostile to religion. But, however short his orthodoxy might fall if tried by the standards of any particular church, his temperament was pre-eminently religious. This fact is shown in his letters. The belief in a God, all-wise, all-just and all-merciful, governing the world providentially for the best, pervades all his works, his correspondence and his life. Nor had he any wish to undermine established beliefs, except where he conceived that they conflicted with a truer religion and a purer morality.\n\nTo the public ordinances of the church he scrupulously conformed. But, unfortunately, there were many things both in the teaching and the practice of the ecclesiastics of that day, which were calculated to repel men of sober judgment and high principle. These evil tendencies in the popular presentation of Christianity undoubtedly begot in Shaftesbury's mind a certain amount of repugnance and contempt to some of the doctrines of Christianity itself; and, cultivating, almost of set purpose, his sense of the ridiculous, he was too apt to assume towards such doctrines and their teachers a tone of raillery.\n\nBut, whatever might be Shaftesbury's speculative opinions or his mode of expressing them, all witnesses bear testimony to the elevation and purity of his life and aims. As an earnest student, and ardent lover of liberty, an enthusiast in the cause of virtue, and a man of unblemished life and untiring beneficence, Shaftesbury probably had no superior in his generation. His character and pursuits are the more remarkable, considering the rank of life in which he was born and the circumstances under which he was brought up. In many respects he reminds us of the Stoic philosopher and Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius, whose works he studied with avidity, and whose influence is stamped upon his own productions.\n\nMost of Shaftesbury's writings have been already mentioned. In addition to these there have been published:\n\nThe \"Letters to a Young Man at the University\" (Michael Ainsworth), already mentioned, were first published in 1716. The \"Letter on Design\" was first published in the edition of the \"Characteristics\" issued in 1732. Besides the published writings, there are several memoranda, letters, rough drafts, etc., in the Shaftesbury papers in the Record Office.\n\nShaftesbury took great pains in the elaboration of his style, and he succeeded so far as to make his meaning transparent. The thought is always clear. But, on the other hand, he did not equally succeed in attaining elegance, an object at which he seems equally to have aimed. There is a curious affectation about his style—a falsetto note—which, notwithstanding all his efforts to please, is often irritating to the reader. Its main characteristic is perhaps best hit off by Charles Lamb when he calls it genteel. He poses too much as a fine gentleman, and is so anxious not to be taken for a pedant of the vulgar scholastic kind that he falls into the hardly more attractive pedantry of the aesthete and virtuoso. In the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" Eleventh Edition, Fowler and Mitchell stated:\n[...] he is easily read and understood. Hence, probably, the wide popularity which his works enjoyed in the 18th century; and hence the agreeable feeling with which, notwithstanding their false taste and their tiresome digressions, they impress the modern reader.\n</ref>\n\nShaftesbury's philosophical importance is due mainly to his ethical speculations, in which his motive was primarily the refutation of Hobbes' egoistic doctrine. By the method of empirical psychology, he examined man first as a unit in himself and secondly in his wider relations to the larger units of society and the universe of mankind. His great principle was that of Harmony or Balance, and he based it on the general ground of good taste or feeling as opposed to the method of reason:\nThus, by the criterion of harmony, Shaftesbury refutes Hobbes, and deduces the virtue of benevolence as indispensable to morality. So also he has drawn a close parallel between the moral and the aesthetic criteria. Just as there is a faculty which apprehends beauty in the sphere of art, so there is in the sphere of ethics a faculty which determines the value of actions. This faculty he described (for the first time in English thought) as the Moral Sense (see Hutcheson) or Conscience (cf. Butler). In its essence, it is primarily emotional and non-reflective; in process of development it becomes rationalized by education and use. The emotional and the rational elements in the moral sense Shaftesbury did not fully analyse (see Home).\n\nFrom this principle, it follows:\nFrom these results we see that Shaftesbury, opposed to Hobbes and Locke, is in close agreement with Hutcheson, and that he is ultimately a deeply religious thinker, inasmuch as he discards the moral sanction of public opinion, the terrors of future punishment, and the authority of the civil authority as the main incentives to goodness, and substitutes the voice of conscience and the love of God. These two alone move men to aim at perfect harmony for its own sake in the man and in the universe.\n\nShaftesbury's philosophical activity was confined to ethics, religion, and aesthetics where he was one of the earliest writers to bring into prominence the concept of the sublime as an aesthetic quality. For metaphysics, properly so called, and even psychology, except so far as it afforded a basis for ethics, he evidently had no taste. Logic he probably despised as merely an instrument of pedantic judgment for which, in his day, and especially at the universities, there was only too much ground.\n\nThe main object of the Moralists is to propound a system of natural theology, and to vindicate, so far as natural religion is concerned, the ways of God to man. The articles of Shaftesbury's religious creed were few and simple, but these he entertained with a conviction amounting to enthusiasm. They may briefly be summed up as a belief in one God whose most characteristic attribute is universal benevolence, in the moral government of the universe, and in a future state of man making up for the imperfections and repairing the inequalities of the present life. Shaftesbury is emphatically an optimist, but there is a passage in the Moralists (pt. ii. sect. 4) which would lead us to suppose that he regarded matter as an indifferent principle, coexistent and coeternal with God, limiting His operations, and the cause of the evil and imperfection which, notwithstanding the benevolence of the Creator, is still to be found in His work. If this view of his optimism be correct, Shaftesbury, as Mill says of Leibniz, must be regarded as maintaining, not that this is the best of all imaginable but only of all possible worlds. This brief notice of Shaftesbury's scheme of natural religion would be conspicuously imperfect unless it were added that it is popularized in Pope's \"Essay on Man\", several lines of which, especially of the first epistle, are simply statements from the Moralists done into verse. Whether, however, these were taken immediately by Pope from Shaftesbury, or whether they came to him through the papers which Bolingbroke had prepared for his use, we have no means of determining. On the other hand, Pope had certainly read Shaftesbury's work, for he mentions the character of Theocles in the latter's \"The Moralists\" in his \"Dunciad\" (IV.487–490): \"Or that bright Image to our Fancy draw,/Which Theocles in raptur'd vision saw,/While thro' Poetic scenes the Genius roves,/Or wanders wild in Academic Groves\". In his notes to these lines, Pope directs the reader to various passages in Shaftesbury's work.\n\nThe influence of Shaftesbury's writings was considerable both at home and abroad. His ethical system was reproduced, though in a more precise and philosophical form, by Hutcheson, and from him descended, with certain variations, to Hume and Adam Smith. Nor was it without its effect even on the speculations of Butler. Of the so-called deists Shaftesbury was probably the most important, as he was certainly the most plausible and the most respectable. No sooner had the \"Characteristics\" appeared than they were welcomed, in terms of warm commendation, by Le Clerc and Leibniz.\n\nIn 1745 Denis Diderot adapted or reproduced the \"Inquiry concerning Virtue\" in what was afterwards known as his \"Essai sur le Mérite et la Vertu\". In 1769 a French translation of the whole of Shaftesbury's works, including the \"Letters\", was published at Geneva. Translations of separate treatises into German began to be made in 1738, and in 1776–1779 there appeared a complete German translation of the \"Characteristics\". Hermann Hettner says that not only Leibniz, Voltaire and Diderot, but Lessing, Mendelssohn, Wieland and Herder, drew the most stimulating nutriment from Shaftesbury. His charms, he adds, are ever fresh. A new-born Hellenism, or divine coitus of beauty presented itself before his inspired soul.\n\nHerder is especially eulogistic. In the \"Adrastea\" he pronounces the \"Moralists\" to be a composition in form well-nigh worthy of Grecian antiquity, and in its contents almost superior to it. The interest felt by German literary men in Shaftesbury was revived by the publication of two excellent monographs, one dealing with him mainly from the theological side by Gideon Spicker (Freiburg in Baden, 1872), the other dealing with him mainly from the philosophical side by Georg von Gizycki (Leipzig, 1876).\n\n\nThe most recent and definitive biography available of the 3rd Earl of Shaftesbury is Robert B. Voitle's \"The third Earl of Shaftesbury, 1671–1713\" Baton Rouge : Louisiana State University Press, c1984.\n\nIn Thomas Fowler's monograph on Shaftesbury and Hutcheson in the series of English philosophers (1882) he was able to supplement the printed materials for the Life by extracts from the Shaftesbury papers in the Record Office. These include, besides many letters and memoranda, two Lives of him, composed by his son, the fourth earl, one of which is evidently the original, though it is by no means always closely followed, of the Life contributed by Thomas Birch to the \"General Dictionary\".\n\nFor description and criticism of Shaftesbury's philosophy:\n\nFor his relations to the religious, art and theological controversies of his day, see:\n\n"}
{"id": "46266731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46266731", "title": "Antonios Miliarakis", "text": "Antonios Miliarakis\n\nAntonios Miliarakis (7 April 1841 in Athens – 8 April 1905 in Athens) was a Greek geographer, academic and historian of the 19th century. He was distinguished for his studies in history and geography.\n\nHe was born in Athens on 7 April 1841. He studied jurisprudence at the University of Athens and graduated in 1864. He worked as historian, geographer and professor of jurisprudence at the University of Athens whilst he was working as stenographer in Hellenic Parliament (since 1862), until his death.\n\nThe period from 1867 to 1868, Miliarakis served as secretary of the “\"Central Committee\"”, which was directing the Cretan Revolt that was in progress while in 1879 he participated in the trilateral commission that was sent from Greece to Preveza ( then under Ottoman rule to negotiate the determination of the new borders between the two states.\n\nIn 1882, he was one of the founding members of the Historical and Ethnological Society of Greece, in which he was curator and later secretary. His research work on historical and geographical issues was of great importance.\n\nHe died on April 8, 1905 in Athens where he was buried.\n\nMiliarakis wrote a large number of history and geography books which are distinguished for the scientific methodology and the emphasis on historical, ethnological, demographic, cultural and folklore elements.\n\nHe was awarded by the “Society for the advancement of Hellenic studies” (“Σύλλογος προς προαγωγήν των ελληνικών σπουδών”) of Paris for three of his works; “\"Κυκλαδικά\"” (“Kykladika”) (1874), “\"Νεοελληνική γεωγραφική φιλολογία, ήτοι, κατάλογος των από του 1800-1889 γεωγραφηθέντων υπό Ελλήνων\"” (“\"Neohellenic geographical philology, catalogue of the geographical literature since 1800 until 1889 by Greeks\"”, 1889) and the “\"Ιστορία του βασιλείου της Νικαίας και του Δεσποτάτου της Ηπείρου\"” (“History of the Kingdom of Nicaea and the Despotate of Epirus”).\n\nAntonios Miliarakis also wrote the following: «Υπομνήματα περιγραφικά των Κυκλάδων νήσων κατά μέρος» (“Descriptive memoranda of the Cyclades islands”) (1880, 1901), «\"Ολίγαι λέξεις περί της καταγωγής του Σκενδέρμπεη\"» (“\"A few words about the origin of Skanderbeg\"”) (1876) where he tried to refute the arguments of German historians about the Slavic origin of Skanderbeg, “\"Γεωγραφία Πολιτική Νέα και Αρχαία του Νομού Κεφαλληνίας\"” (“\"New and Ancient Political Geography of Kefallinia Prefecture\"”), etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "2839278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2839278", "title": "Aois-dàna", "text": "Aois-dàna\n\nThe (Scottish Gaelic, literally \"people of the arts\", often translated as bards) served as advisers to nobles and chiefs of clans throughout the Scottish Gàidhealtachd until the late 17th century. Many of them specialised in preserving the genealogy of families and recited family trees at the succession of chieftains. \n\nThe \"\" were held in high esteem throughout the Scottish Highlands. As late as the end of the 17th century, they sat in the \"sreath\" or circle among the nobles and chiefs of families. They took the preference of the \"ollamh\" or doctor in medicine. After the extinction of the druids, they were brought in to preserve the genealogy of families, and to repeat genealogical traditions at the succession of every chieftain. They had great influence over all the powerful men of the time. Their persons, their houses, their villages, were sacred. Whatever they asked was given them — not always, however, out of respect, but from fear of their satire, which frequently followed a denial of their requests. They lost by degrees, through their own insolence and importunity, all the respect their order had so long enjoyed, and consequently all their wonted profits and privileges. The Lord Lyon of Scotland may well have his roots in something parallel.\n\nMartin Martin says of them:\nAmong the ancient Brythons there were, according to Jones, an order of bard called the \"Arwyddwardd\", i.e. the ensign bard or herald at arms, who employed himself in genealogy, and in blazoning the arms of princes and nobles, as well as altering them according to their dignity or deserts.\n\nThe equivalent Irish terms are ' (Old Irish) and ' (modern).\nAosdána is currently used in Ireland as the name of an exclusive organisation of artists and writers founded in the late 20th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56099182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56099182", "title": "Cologne High Military and Escort Road", "text": "Cologne High Military and Escort Road\n\nThe Cologne High Military and Escort Road (, also called the \"Hohe Straße\") is a historical trading route that ran from the city of Cologne via the imperial cities of Wetzlar and Friedberg to Frankfurt within the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nThis historic road ran along the eastern edge of the Westerwald mountains via Greifenstein and crossed the River Lahn in Wetzlar. In addition to its function as a trading road this highway was also used as a pilgrims' way from Cologne to Marburg. The so-called Elizabeth Path (\"Elisabethpfad\") had the grave of Saint Elizabeth of Thuringia in Marburg as its destination. This historical pilgrimage route was waymarked as the Way of St. James in 2007. The section of the old road between Butzbach and Wetzlar is recorded in 1315 and 1349 in deeds no. 441 and 758 at Arnsburg Abbey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15361562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15361562", "title": "Committee for the Advance of Money", "text": "Committee for the Advance of Money\n\nOn 26 November 1642 the Committee for the Advance of Money for the Service of the Parliament was established at Haberdashers Hall under Lord Howard of Escrick. The committee was established by the Long Parliament under \"An Ordinance for the assessing of all such as have not contributed upon the Propositions of both Houses of Parliament for the raising of money, plate, horse and horsemen, etc\"\n\nFrom 1642 to 1650 the Committee investigated people's wealth and obtained forced loans for the use of Parliament but repaid the money annually with interest. Initially, funds were obtained from all parties but, from August 1646, only Royalists were forced to contribute and goods could be seized for non compliance.\n\nContributors included the Royalist Francis Leigh, 1st Earl of Chichester who was assessed in November 1645 at £3,000 and given a year to pay.\n\nHoward was later exposed for receiving bribes from Royalists.\n\n"}
{"id": "43218014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43218014", "title": "Consensus history", "text": "Consensus history\n\nConsensus history is a style of American historiography that emphasizes the basic unity of American values and downplays conflict as superficial and lacking in complexity. The movement was especially influential in the 1950s and 1960s. Prominent leaders included Richard Hofstadter, Louis Hartz, Daniel J. Boorstin and David M. Potter. Other prominent exemplars included Perry Miller, Clinton Rossiter, Henry Steele Commager, Allan Nevins and Edmund Morgan. It rejected the \"Progressive\" historiography that had previously dominated, and which stressed the central importance of class conflict in American history. Charles A. Beard was the most prominent representative of the progressive or \"Beardian\" approach.\n\nConsensus history was rejected by New Left viewpoints that attracted younger more radical historians in the 1960s. These viewpoints stress conflict and emphasize the central roles of class, race and gender.\n\nIn 1959 John Higham identified an emerging consensus among historians that was based on the search for \"a placid, unexciting past\" as part of \"a massive grading operation to smooth over\nAmerica's social convulsions.\" Higham called it the \"Cult of the American Consensus.\"\n\nAfter 1945, Hofstadter philosophically broke with Beard and moved to the center in his leadership of the politically liberal \"consensus historians\". Hofstadter disliked the term, but it was widely applied to his rejection of the Beardian idea that there was a fundamental conflict running throughout American history that pitted economic classes against each other. Eric Foner says that Hofstadter's book \"The American Political Tradition\" (1948) \"propelled him to the very forefront of his profession.\" Millions of Americans, on and off campus, read it. Its format is a series of portraits of leading men from the Founding Fathers through Jefferson, Jackson, Lincoln and FDR. Foner argues:\n\nHofstadter in 1948 thus rejected black-and-white polarization between pro- and anti-business politicians. Hofstadter made a statement of the consensus model of the American political tradition:\nThe fierceness of the political struggles has often been misleading: for the range of vision embraced by the primary contestants in the major parties has always been bounded by the horizons of property and enterprise. However much at odds on specific issues, the major political traditions have shared a belief in the rights of property, the philosophy of economic individualism, the value of competition; they have accepted the economic virtues of capitalist culture as necessary qualities of man.\n\nAs a consensus historian, Hofstadter rejected Beard's interpretation of history as a succession of socio-economic group conflicts. He thought that all historical periods could be understood as an implicit consensus, shared by antagonists, explaining that the generation of Beard and Vernon Louis Parrington had:\n...put such an excessive emphasis on conflict, that an antidote was needed... It seems to me to be clear that a political society cannot hang together, at all, unless there is some kind of consensus running through it, and yet that no society has such a total consensus as to be devoid of significant conflict. It is all a matter of proportion and emphasis, which is terribly important in history. Of course, obviously, we have had one total failure of consensus, which led to the Civil War. One could use that as the extreme case in which consensus breaks down.\n\nConsensus historians, argues Lary May:\nbelieved that the prosperity and apparent class harmony of the post-World War II era reflected a return to the true Americanism rooted in liberal capitalism and the pursuit of individual opportunity that had made fundamental conflicts over resources a thing of the past. They argued that the New Deal was a conservative movement that built a welfare state, guided by experts, that saved rather than transformed liberal capitalism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10469948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10469948", "title": "Denis Smyth", "text": "Denis Smyth\n\nDenis Smyth (born 1948) is professor of History at the University of Toronto. His doctorate is from the University of Cambridge. While at Cambridge he studied under F.H. Hinsley, a noted scholar of the Second World War. He is a specialist in modern international relations, particularly the period surrounding World War II and the Spanish Civil War. Among his major works is a monumental collected edition of previously classified British documents from the period just after World War II.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "430062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430062", "title": "Djerba", "text": "Djerba\n\nDjerba ( '), also transliterated as Jerba or Jarbah, is, at , the largest island of North Africa, located in the Gulf of Gabès, off the coast of Tunisia. It had a population of 139,544 at the 2004 Census, while the latest official estimate (as of 1 July 2014) is 163,726. Citing the long and unique Jewish minority's history on Djerba, Tunisia has sought UNESCO World Heritage status protections for the island.\n\nLegend has it that Djerba was the island of the lotus-eaters where Odysseus was stranded on his voyage through the Mediterranean sea. The tradition of the Jewish minority of Djerba says in the year 586 BC, some of the Israelite temple priests who were able to escape the destruction of Jerusalem and the Temple there, settled in Djerba; an unusually high percentage of Jews on the island to this day maintain family status of the priestly caste, and a genetic link has been confirmed by DNA testing.\n\nThe island, which was called \"Meninx\" until the third century AD, includes three principal towns. One of these, whose modern name is Būrgū, is found near Midoun in the center of the island. Another city, on the southeast coast of the island at Meninx, was a major producer of priceless murex dye, and is cited by Pliny the Elder as second only to Tyre in this regard. A third important town was the ancient Haribus. The island was densely inhabited in the Roman and Byzantine periods, and probably imported much of the grain consumed by its inhabitants. The island appears in the 4th century Peutinger Map.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Djerba was occupied by Ibadi Muslims, who claimed it as their own. The Christians of Sicily and Aragon disputed this claim with the Ibadites. Remains from this period include numerous small mosques dating from as early as the twelfth century, as well as two substantial forts.\n\nThe island was controlled twice by the Norman Kingdom of Sicily: in *1135–1158 and in *1284–1333. During the second of these periods it was organised as a feudal lordship, with the following Lords of Jerba: 1284–1305 Roger I, 1305–1307 and 1307–1310 Roger II (twice), 1310 Charles, 1310 Francis-Roger III; there were also royal governors, whose times in power partially overlapped with those of the Lords: c. 1305–1308 Simon de Montolieu, 1308–1315 Ramon Muntaner.\n\nIn 1503, Barbary pirate Oruç Reis and his brother Hayreddin Barbarossa took control of the island and turned it into their main base in the western Mediterranean, thus bringing it under Ottoman control. Spain launched a disastrous attempt to capture it in November 1510. In 1513, after three years in exile in Rome, the Fregosi family returned to Genoa, Ottaviano was elected Doge, and his brother, Archbishop Federigo Fregoso (later cardinal), having become his chief educator, was placed at the head of the army, and defended the republic against internal dangers (revolts of the Adorni and the Fieschi) and external dangers, notably suppression of the Barbary piracy: Cortogoli, a corsair from Tunis, blockaded the coast with a squadron, and within a few days had captured eighteen merchantmen; being given the command of the Genoese fleet, in which Andrea Doria was serving, Federigo surprised Cortogoli before Bizerta. Soon after, he carried out an invasion and occupation of the island and returned to Genoa with great booty.\nSpanish forces returned to Djerba in 1520, and this time was successful in capturing the island. It was twice occupied by Spain, from 1521 to 1524 and from 1551 to 1560; again there were governors: 1521–1524 ..., 1560 Giovanni Andrea Doria.\nOn May 14, 1560, the Ottoman fleet, under the command of Piali Pasha and Dragut, severely defeated the \"Holy League\" of Philip II of Spain at the Battle of Djerba. From that time until 1881, Djerba belonged to the Ottoman regency of Tunis.\nSubsequently, it came under the French colonial protectorate, which became the modern republic of Tunisia.\n\nAn archaeological field survey of Djerba carried out between 1995 and 2000 under the auspices of the University of Pennsylvania, the American Academy in Rome and the Tunisian Institut National du Patrimoine, revealed over 400 archaeological sites, including many Punic and Roman villas and an amphitheatre. In Djerba Jews and Muslims can live in peace and happiness together, as one team.\n\nThe city Girba in the Roman province of Tripolitania (mostly in modern Libya), which gave its name to the island, was important enough to become a suffragan bishop of its capital's archbishopric. Known Bishops of antiquity include:\n\nThe 1909 \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" lists only two: \"At least two bishops of Girba are known, Monnulus and Vincent, who assisted at the Councils, of Carthage in 255 and 525\".\n\nThe Ancient diocese of Girba was nominally restored in 1895 as a Latin titular bishopric of the lowest (episcopal) rank.\n\nSo far, it has had the following incumbents :\n\nThe island comprises three of the \"delegations\" within the Tunisian Département of Médenine. Named after the three towns which form their administrative centres, these delegations, with their 2004 Census populations and their estimated population as of 1 July 2013, are:\n\nThe tourist activity starts at Djerba, five kilometers from Houmt Souk, the capital of the island and its main center is the tourist area. For more than 30 kilometers you can see the facilities and tourist resorts. There are more than 120 adjacent hotels of different categories, Golf, tourist resorts and tourist casino.\nDue to its location in the eastern basin of the Mediterranean, especially since it is only three hours by plane from most European countries, the island of Djerba has become a kiss for a large number of tourists looking for the uniqueness and calmness and beauty of nature. Over a total of 125 km of coastline we find more than 20 km of sandy beaches and that is in the north-eastern region, ie, the area opposite the oldest entrance through Agim.\nUntil the early fifties, these beaches were meant for short periods of the year and during some rituals such as the visit of the righteous saints on the coast. The inhabitants of the island had no recreational activity. But since the pioneering experience of the Club Mad chain, tourist activity has been slowly emerging in Djerba. The founder of the club in Djerba in 1954 focused on a small tourist village from the summer cottages on the banks of the sea, considering Djerba \"Little Taiti\". After this experiment, the tourist constructions were built on the coast of the island. The first was the \"Al Jazira\" Inn, founded in 1961, ten kilometers east of Houmt Souk. Next to it is the Oulis Palace, founded in 1964 by the public sector. In order to encourage and encourage investment in the field of tourism, the Tunisian State has opened the way for the private sector to become the day of the tourism region in Djerba which extends over 20 km between the south and south of the souk in the north. The capacity of the hotel has grown from 8300 beds in 1975 to 39,000 beds in 2002 .\nDjerba is a rich island with its diverse landscapes and diverse horizons. The sea horizon, which combines tourism and a part of the traditional activity around the port of Houmt Souk, is distinguished from its internal horizon, which provides other luxuries and services to the tourism sector. Houmt Souk represents its airport and is located at the same time as the old and modern center of the island and it contains most of the services, especially administrative at the state level. On the other hand, Midoun is characterized by sectoral functions related to tourism development. Agim has maintained its role as a traditional transit point from within the country to the island and still today relies on traditional fishing activities. However, since 2006, with the opening of the new \"leisure\" recreation and revitalization center, a new economic period has begun to go to various tourism destinations.\nAnd so it seems clear to us how the features of the island has changed a lot since 1960 with the concentration of the tourist area and the expansion of the airport and residential communities and exposing the roads and now the island is rich in tourist and cultural stations and entertainment to serve tourists of all affiliations.\n\nThe island is a tourist attraction with its important place, one of the most important tourist areas in the Republic of Tunisia, and has a distinctive image based on a set of elements of tourism, including the history of this island, it is associated with the myth of Odyssey and Iliad, Archaeological heritage, which has a connection to the civilizations that dominated the Mediterranean basin, and the island has sandy beaches and its counterpart, in addition to its special nature and its unique palm trees, olive trees and other natural plants, Her moderate brother\n\nOne of the most famous monuments in Djerba is one of the most important axes that have undergone several renovations. The tower dates back to the century. The fifteenth century AD was built by order of the Hafsa Sultan Abu Fares Abdul Aziz Al-Mutawakil, who was transferred in 1432 to the island of Djerba to respond to the Spanish campaign, which was led by King Alfonso V himself.\n\nWithin the framework of the program prepared by the Ministry of Tourism and Handicrafts to diversify and enrich tourist activity in Djerba Island, it is the so-called tourist and recreational islands. A group of private companies, which have ships and boats in cooperation with foreign and Tunisian travel agencies, A daily newspaper to Ras Raml Island or Pink Flamingo Island where these companies transport tourist groups on leisure trips. About four vessels carrying each ship take about one hundred and fifty tourists on a regular basis from the port of Houmt Souk to Ras Raml Island. Which is about 15 km away On the island of Djerba, where tourists help the crew of the ship throw their nets to catch fish or another group of tourists to swim in the deep waters and some of these ships have the space to see the sea floor and coral reefs and sponge, as the tourist enjoys watching the dolphins coming out of the water and The Gulf of Gabes, where this island is located, is rich in fish and dolphins. The ship then heads to Ras Raml Island and the tourist spends a lot of time with the folk dances accompanying tourists to the island and watching the Red Flamingo And the seagulls with their fresh voices.\n\nThe tourists then have a rich lunch of grilled fish with salad and fruit in a paddle made of palm fronds and tree trunks.\n\nBefore sunset, the group prepares for the return journey accompanied by folk music, dances and singing. Then the sailors collect fishing nets from the sea where the bumper fishing\n\nThe highest peak on the island of Djerba is the building of the Qalaa Museum as a fortress of the medieval castles. It was raised on the plateau of Tassita (2 km) overlooking the legendary Jirbi countryside to the east and overlooking the beautiful Pugarara Sea to the west. At the bottom of the plateau lies the ancient village of Qala, The greenery of her absence and the blue of her sea.\n\nJerba Berber, a Berber language, called \"chelha\" by its speakers, is spoken in some villages, including Guellala, Iquallalen, Ajim, Sedriane, Sedouikech, Azdyuch, Mahboubine and Ouirsighen.\n\nA Jewish minority has dwelled on the island continuously for more than 2,500 years.\n\nThere are multiple accounts to how the Jewish people made their way to the Island of Djerba. There is no concrete evidence that links the Jewish people in Djerba during the period of antiquity, the first evidence that historians know of come from the 11th century found in Cairo Geniza. The evidence that links the Jewish people to the Island of Djerba before this time is found through Oral history and traditions still used today that are specific to the Jews of Djerba.\n\nThis community is unique in Jewish diaspora history for its unusually high percentage of Kohanim (Hebrew; the Jewish priestly caste), direct patrilineal descendants of Aaron the first high priest from Mosaic times until today. Local tradition tells that when Nebuchadnezzar II leveled Solomon’s temple and lay waste to Judah and the city of Jerusalem in the year 586 BC, some of the Kohanim who were able to escape the slavery awaiting the residents of Jerusalem settled in Djerba. A key point in this oral history has been backed up by genetic tests for Cohen modal haplotype showing that the vast majority of male Jews on Djerba claiming the family status of Cohen had a common ancient male ancestor which matches that of nearly all of both historically European and Middle Eastern Jewish males with a family history of patrilineal membership in the Jewish priestly caste. Because of this, the island is known among Jews as the island of the Kohanim. During the destruction of the temple, the Kohanim, who were serving the temple at the time of destruction escaped from Jerusalem and found themselves on the island of Djerba. The legend says that with them, the Kohanim carried the door and some stones from the Temple in Jerusalem which they then incorporated into the \"marvelous synagogue\", also known as Ghirba, which still stands in Djerba. \n\nThe Jewish community differs from others in Djerba in their dress, personal names, and accents. The Jewish people of Djerba also have a sacred place within the community that is enclosed by wire, the eruv, which delimits the area in which Jews can carry objects on Shabbat. Some traditions that are distinctive of the Jewish Djerba community is the kiddush prayer said on the eve of Passover and a few prophetic passages on certain Shabbats of the year. Traditions like these help historians believe the accounts on the time period the Jewish people arrived in Djerba. \n\nOne of the community's synagogues, the El Ghriba synagogue, has been in continuous use for over 2,000 years. The Jews were settled in two main communities: the Hara Kabira (\"the big quarter\") and the Hara Saghira (\"the small quarter\"). The Hara Saghira identified itself with Israel, while the Hara Kabira identified with Spain and Morocco.\n\nThe next influx of Jewish people to the Island of Djerba was during the Spanish Inquisition, when the Iberian Jewish population was no longer welcome and were forced to leave. The Jewish population hit its peak during the time that Tunisia was fighting for independence from France 1881-1956 In 1940 there were approximately 100,000 Jewish-Tunisians or 15% of the entire population of Tunisia. \n\nIn the aftermath of World War II, the Jewish population on the island declined significantly due to emigration to Israel and France. , the Jewish permanent resident community on the island numbered about 1,000, but many return annually on pilgrimage. However, once the State of Israel was established, and political unrest in the Middle East and North Africa was building up many Jewish people left Tunisia. Although the Jewish community of Tunisia was on the decline, the Jewish community of Hara Kebira witnessed an increase of population due to its traditional character. Despite this, the community on Djerba remains one of the last remaining fully intact Jewish communities in an Arab majority country after most were abandoned in the face of anti-Israel and antisemitic pressure and pogroms. The mostly traditionally observant Jewish community is growing because of large natural families despite emigration and a new Orthodox Jewish school for girls has recently been inaugurated on the Island to serve alongside the two boy's yeshiva schools. According to the \"Wall Street Journal\" \"Relations between Jews and Muslims are complex—proper and respectful, though not especially close. Jewish men work alongside Arab merchants in the souk, for example, and enjoy amiable ties with Muslim customers.\" The conflict that historically has occurred between Muslims and Jewish people does not happen in Djerba. The people of Djerba attribute this quality to the fact that all people of the Island were at some point Jewish and therefore share similar practices in their way of life. \n\nSome of these Jewish practices that can be seen in Muslim households in Djerba are the lighting of candles on Friday night, and the suspending of matzot on the ceiling from one spring to the next. The Jewish and Muslim communities coexist very peacefully in Djerba even during the political unrest in regards to the Palestinian and Israeli conflict. The people of Djerba say that the two communities simply pray in different places, but they are still able to converse. A Jewish leader once stated \"We live together, We visit our friends on their religious holidays. We work together. Muslims buy meat from our butchers. when we are forbidden to work or cook on the Shabbat, we buy bread and kosher food cooking by Muslims. Our children play together\". \n\nOn April 11, 2002, Al-Qaeda claimed responsibility for a truck bomb attack close to the famous synagogue, killing 21 people (14 German tourists, 5 Tunisians and 2 French nationals). Although tourists ceased visiting Djerba for some time after this event, normal activity has since resumed.\n\nSince the Arab spring revolutions, the Tunisian government has extended their protection and encouraged Jewish life on the island of Djerba.Citing the long and unique Jewish history on Djerba, Tunisia has sought UNESCO World Heritage status for the island. To this day the Jewish community is thriving in Djerba. There are currently 14 synagogues, 2 yeshivot, and 3 kosher eateries.\n\nA Jewish school on the island was firebombed during the national protests held in 2018, while security forces in Djerba were reduced, being preoccupied with protection efforts elsewhere. This attack was among many other uprisings that were occurring throughout Tunisia at the time. \n\nDjerba has a mild climate for the region and fertile soil. However, until the introduction of the current levels of advanced irrigation and piped water supplies, the month of October tended to supply approximately 25% of its total annual rainfall on the island (see table below). Summer daytime temperatures regularly reach very high levels, making early human habitation less favoured than the north of the country. Its largest city is Houmt El Souk, with a population of around 65,000. Known for its beaches and sunsets, the island is a popular tourist destination, particularly with French, German and Italian tourists. It is one of the few remaining places in Tunisia where a Berber language is still spoken. Another factor drawing some tourists to Djerba is that, in 1976, the town of Ajim was used as the setting for the Mos Eisley exterior scenes in the first \"Star Wars\" movie.\n\nDjerba is noted as a center of the Ibadi sect of Islam.\n\nDjerba Bin El Ouedian is a wetland and habitat for migratory birds. It is located at 33 ° 40 'N, 10 ° 55 'E. On November 7, 2007 the wetland was included on the list of Ramsar sites under the Ramsar Convention, due to its importance as a bird refuge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25492908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25492908", "title": "Earl J. Hamilton", "text": "Earl J. Hamilton\n\nEarl Jefferson Hamilton (1899 – 7 May 1989) was an American historian, one of the founders of economic history, and a prominent hispanist.\n\nHamilton was born in Houlka, Mississippi.\n\nHe was married to Gladys Dallas Hamilton, and had one daughter, Sita Hamilton. Earl and Gladys did extensive research on the economic history of Spain.\n\nHe was professor of Duke University from 1927 to 1944; Northwestern University from 1944 to 1947, and University of Chicago from 1947 to 1967. The State University of New York appointed him \"Distinguished Professor of Economic History\" (1966–1969). Editor of \"Journal of Political Economy\" for seven years. President of \"Economic History Association\" (1951–1952).\n\nHis major contribution was the history of prices in Spain: the concept of Price Revolution in the 16th century. The work of Hamilton was coincident intellectually with keynesianism and contemporary crisis of 1929. He started his work on this topic within the International scientific committee on price history, within which he was responsible for Spain.\n\nHe died on 7 May 1989.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32078647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32078647", "title": "Economic antisemitism", "text": "Economic antisemitism\n\nEconomic antisemitism is stereotypes and canards that are based on the economic status, occupation or economic behaviour of Jews. It also includes economic behaviour and laws as well as governmental policies that target the economic status, occupation or behaviour of Jews.\n\nIn some cases, stereotypes and canards have motivated economic behaviour and governmental action targeting Jews. In other cases, economic behaviour, laws and/or governmental policies have fed the propagation of those stereotypes and canards.\n\nLeon Poliakov writes that economic antisemitism is not a distinct form of antisemitism but merely a manifestation of theologic antisemitism (without the theological causes of the economic antisemitism, there would be no economic antisemitism). On the other hand, Derek Penslar contends that in the modern era, the economic antisemitism is \"distinct and nearly constant\" but theological antisemitism is \"often subdued\".\n\nDerek Penslar describes modern economic antisemitism as a \"double helix of intersecting paradigms, the first associating the Jew with paupers and savages and the second conceiving of Jews as conspirators, leaders of a financial cabal seeking global domination\".\n\nThroughout history, stereotypes of Jews as being connected to greed, money-lending and usury have stoked anti-Jewish sentiments and still, to a large extent, influence the perception of Jews today. Reuveni and Wobick-segev suggest that we are still haunted by the image of \"the mighty, greedy Jew\".\n\nAllegations on the relationship of Jews and money have been characterised as underpinning the most damaging and lasting antisemitic canards.\n\nAntisemites have often promulgated myths related to money, such as the canard that Jews control the world finances, first promoted in the \"Protocols of the Elders of Zion\" and later repeated by Henry Ford and his \"Dearborn Independent\". Many such myths are still widespread in the Islamic world such as in books like \"The Secret Relationship Between Blacks and Jews\", published by the Nation of Islam, as well as on the internet.\n\nAbraham Foxman cites examples of economic antisemitism found around the world, particularly in the United Kingdom, Germany, Argentina, and Spain. He also cites many modern instances of money-related antisemitism that are found on the Internet.\n\nGerald Krefetz summarizes the myths as Jews \"control the banks, the money supply, the economy, and businesses - of the community, of the country, of the world\". He gives as illustrations many slurs and proverbs, in several different languages, suggesting that Jews are stingy, greedy, miserly, or aggressive bargainers. Krefetz suggests that during the 19th century, most of the myths focused on Jews being \"scurrilous, stupid, and tight-fisted\", but after the Jewish Emancipation and the rise of Jews to the middle and upper classes in Europe the myths evolved and began to assert that Jews were \"clever, devious, and manipulative financiers out to dominate\" world finances.\n\nFoxman describes six facets of canards used by proponents of economic antisemitism:\n\nThe Anti Defamation League conducted a poll in Europe in 2007 that asked respondents if they agreed with the statement that \"Jews have too much power in international financial markets\". Polling data showed that respondents agreed with that statement as follows: 61% in Hungary, 43% in Austria, 40% in Switzerland, 40% in Belgium, 21% in the United Kingdom and 13% in the Netherlands.\n\nAnother poll conducted by the ADL in 2009 found that 31% of Europeans surveyed blamed Jews for the global financial crisis that began in 2008.\n\nWilliam I. Brustein describes popular economic antisemitism in Europe before the 19th century as based on accusations of Jews using alleged unethical business practices in second-hand trade, petty commerce and money-lending.\n\nIn the 17th and the 18th centuries, anecdotal remarks from Christian merchants and traders show that there were negative feelings towards Jewish business people, who were sometimes regarded as liars or cheats. Werner Sombart concluded that the perceptions of cheating or dishonesty were simply a manifestation of Christian frustration at innovative commercial practices of Jews, which were contrary to the customs and traditions of the Christian merchants but were otherwise ethical.\n\nOne form of economic antisemitism in the Middle Ages was a mass of legal restrictions imposed on the occupations and professions of Jews. Local rulers and church officials closed many professions to the Jews, pushing them into marginal occupations considered socially inferior, such as tax- and rent-collecting and money-lending, but tolerated then as a \"necessary evil\".\n\nCatholic doctrine then held that lending money for interest was a sin and forbade it to Christians. Not being subject to that restriction, Jews dominated this business. The Torah and the later sections of the Hebrew Bible criticise usury, but interpretations of the Biblical prohibition vary. Since few other occupations were open to them, Jews were motivated to take up money-lending. That was said to show Jews were usurers, which then led to many negative stereotypes and propaganda. Natural tensions between creditors, typically Jews, and debtors, typically Christians were added to social, political, religious and economic strains.\n\nPeasants who were forced to pay their taxes to Jews could personify them as the people taking their earnings and remain loyal to the lords on whose behalf the Jews worked.\n\nAlso present in the Middle Ages was the coercion of Jews into being economic objects, possessions and even slaves by groups of nobles, as is evident in examples from the English code \"Leges Edwardi Confessoris\". Jews were re-lcast into various economic occupational roles and so became a people that could be coveted, sold or traded for economic purposes by those in power at the time. That use of Jews also had political causes and ramifications in the time period, but the economic practice of using Jews to fill particular roles in economic sectors was prevalent.\n\nThroughout history, the economic status and occupations of Jews have been the subject of antisemitic stereotypes and canards. Some of the stereotypes and canards are based on economic and social restrictions placed on the Jews.\n\nWriting about 130, the Roman satirist Juvenal mockingly depicted Jews as grotesquely poor.\n\nAnother aspect of economic antisemitism is the assertion that Jews do not produce anything of value but instead tend to serve as middlemen, acting as \"parasites in the production line\" of non-Jews, who are doing the real work. Krefetz lists middlemen occupations subject to that canard as distributors, shoppers, wholesalers, brokers, financiers, and retailers and writes that they are \"all notably Jewish occupations\".\n\nSince the Middle Ages, Diaspora Jews have been characterised by a real or perceived \"inverted occupational pyramid\": they were perceived to be more prevalent in the tertiary sector, working in service jobs such as accounting, finance, medicine, law or commerce, than in the secondary and primary sectors. Although Jews were employed in all sectors of the economy, perceptions that Jews are more prevalent in certain occupations or in the professions (medicine or law) have beemy the target of antisemitic sentiment at different periods in history.\n\nJews have been the targets of antisemitic criticism for their occupational preferences. For example, Robert von Mohl characterised European Jews of the 19th century as being concentrated in trade and finance, with some representation in the artistic and intellectual fields. Perceptions of overrepresentation of Jews in certain occupations have driven antisemitic sentiment in the Soviet Union.\n\nThere have been a number of theories for to the reason for the \"inverted occupational pyramid\". Gerald Krefetz writes that the livelihood of Jews, particularly their business activities, has been influenced by religious, cultural, social and historical factors. Krefetz asserts that those factors have led to a predisposition for occupations marked by independence, professionalism and scholarship. Jews have tended to show an \"entrepreneurial spirit\" and \"capacity for risk-taking\", which lead them to innovate financial concepts like negotiable instruments of credit, international syndicates, department stores, holding companies and investment banks. Krefetz suggests that Jews have frequently chosen professions that are \"portable\" or involve duties as a middleman,l because of their long historical background, based on trading and \"heightened awareness of continual persecution\". In a similar vein, Foxman argues that many medieval Jews were especially well suited for commerce because the Jewish diaspora caused many Jews to have far-flung networks of friends and family, which facilitated trade:\n\nAccording to Werner Sombart, one complaint of Christian businesses was that Jews did not limit themselves to one particular trade or market but were often \"jack of all trades\" or \"ubiquitous\" and \"paid no heed to the demarcation of all economic activities into separate categories\". When Jews entered trades or business areas in Europe, that frequently resulted in complaints from Christian competitors that the Jews were depriving them of customers and profit.\n\nSombart, analysing 17th- and 18th-century Christian views of Jewish merchants, concluded that Jewish merchants were considered to pursue profit blatantly, openly and aggressively in contrast to the Christian approach, which was willing to seek profit but viewed the aggressive pursuit of profit as unseemly, uncivilized and uncouth.\n\nSombart also asserts another cause of Christian frustration with Jewish businesses, who imported raw materials, which was considered inappropriate by Christian merchants.\n\nNiewyk and Nicosia describe economic antisemitism as focusing on \"excessive\" Jewish wealth and power growing out of the Jews' success in commerce, banking and professional careers.\n\nMarvin Perry asserts that much antisemitism in the European commercial world derived from the fact that non-Jewish merchants could not match the \"economies of scale and advertising promotions\" of Jewish competitors. Mark Twain (Samuel Clemens) wrote, \"I am persuaded that in Russia, Austria, and Germany nine-tenths of the hostility to the Jew comes from the average Christian's inability to compete success fully with the average Jew in business in either straight business or the questionable sort\".\n\nSimilarly, Foxman writes that it is likely that non-Jews in medieval or Renaissance Europe had feelings of fear, vulnerability and hostility towards Jews because they resented being beholden to Jewish lenders. He claims that money-based antisemitism is a result of resentment and jealousy of Jews. Krefetz also makes a similar point: the ability of Jews to make money occasionally stirs jealousy and hate in non-Jews, contributing to a fear that Jews will \"ascend too high\" in the economic sphere and begin to manipulate and control world finances. Krefetz asserts that US antisemitism seems \"rooted less in religion or contempt and more in envy, jealously and fear\" of Jewish affluence and of the hidden power of \"Jewish money\".\n\nHowever, Dennis Prager and Joseph Telushkin offer a different perspective. Addressing the premise that \"the Jews' disproportionate wealth and concentration in business and in the professions is said to provoke anti-Jewish hostility\", they assert that \"while economic factors can and often do exacerbate antisemitism... economic factors do not cause Jew-hatred; they only provide opportunities for it to be expressed\". As one of the arguments supporting their thesis, Prager and Telushkin point out, \"Jews have often suffered the worst antisemitism when they were poor, as was true with the overwhelming majority of Jews in... Poland and Russia, and have encountered the least amount of antisemitism when affluent as in the United States and Canada today\".\n\nPenslar characterised economic antisemitism as \"an extreme form of the antimercantile sentiments that are rooted in pagan antiquity and the early Christian tradition\".\n\nIn the 19th century, Jews came to be so closely associated with capitalism that some even viewed the Jews as the \"creators of capitalism\". According to Muller, those who embraced capitalism tended to be sympathetic to Jews, and those who rejected capitalism tended to be hostile to Jews.\nRichard Levy writes that,l although there were local variations, most modern economic antisemitism is defined by \"the scapegoating of Jews for capitalism's ills\".\nSimilarly, Steven Beller writes that economic antisemitism, at the turn of the 20th century, was \"based on fear and envy at the supposed stranglehold of 'the Jews' over finance and accused Jews of being behind the depredations of capitalism on the traditional economy\".\n\nLaurel Platt attributes antisemitic attitudes that extend back to the Middle Ages for the tendency to blame Jews for the problems of capitalism and urbanisation that arose in the late 19th century.\n\nScholars have noted the antisemitic attitudes of mid-19th-century French socialists such as Charles Fourier and Pierre-Joseph Proudhon. Fourier vilified the Jews as the \"incarnation of commerce: parasitical, deceitful, traitorous and unproductive.\". Proudhon used even more vehement invective, attacking Jews as the \"incarnation of finance capitalism\" and characterizing them as anti-producers by temperament. Alphonse Toussenel, a follower of Fourier, wrote finance, meaning the Jews, was dominating and ruining France; similarly, Auguste Blanqui commented in his correspondence on Jews as being usurers and \"Shylocks\".\n\nKarl Marx argued that earning a living from collecting interest or acting as a middleman was an unjust and exploitive aspect of capitalism. Because many Jews were employed occupations that Marx considered \"non-productive\", he singled out Jews for particular criticism and blamed Judaism for the exploitation and alienation of workers. Moses Mendelssohn argued, to the contrary, that commercial activity was just as valid and beneficial as manual labour: \"Many a merchant, while quietly engaged at is desk in forming commercial speculations... produces... more than the most active and noisy mechanic or tradesman\".\n\nPenslar wrote that Marx argued not that Jews merely embraced capitalism but that they \"embodied\" it. Penslar stated that Marx claimed that the Jewish religious culture shared many key characteristics of capitalism, such as materialism and egoism.\n\nMarx, himself an ethnic Jew but an atheist, concluded that Judaism was responsible for the alienation of many workers. That idea became a component of his theory of communism. Marx viewed Judaism as a commercial practice, not a theology. According to Perry, Marx believed that \"Jews are the embodiment of capitalism (money-system) in action and the creators of all its evil consequences for humanity\".\n\nMarx's views were shared by Bruno Bauer, who claimed that the essence of Judaism was egotism and materialism, and Marx claimed that money was the Jewish worldly god.\n\nSeveral commentators note that economic antisemitism increases in times of recession or economic hardship, such as during the Depression of 1873.\n\nJewish Bolshevism is an antisemitic canard that is based on the claim that Jews have been the driving force behind or are disproportionately involved in communism, sometimes more specifically Russian Bolshevism.\n\nThe expression was the title of a pamphlet, \"The Jewish Bolshevism\", and became current after the 1917 October Revolution in Russia, featuring prominently in the propaganda of the anti-Bolshevik \"White\" forces during the Russian Civil War. That idea spread worldwide in the 1920s with the publication and circulation of \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\". That was popularised by the Jewish ancestry of many leading Bolsheviks, most notably Leon Trotsky, during and after the October Revolution. Daniel Pipes says that \"primarily through \"the Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", the Whites spread these charges to an international audience\". James Webb wrote that it is rare to find an antisemitic source after 1917 that \"does not stand in debt to the White Russian analysis of the Revolution\".\n\nThe label \"Judeo-Bolshevism\" was used in Nazi Germany to equate Jews with communists, implying that the communism served Jewish interests and/or that all Jews were communists. Jews and Communists were both blamed for having allegedly betrayed Germany during World War I and resulting in Germany signing The Treaty of Versailles,l in what is known as the \"stab-in-the-back myth\". In Poland before World War II, \"Żydokomuna\" was used in the same way to allege that Jews were conspiring with the Soviet Union to invade Poland. According to André Gerrits, \"The myth of Jewish Communism was one of the most popular and widespread political prejudices in the first half of the 20th century, in Eastern Europe in particular\". The allegation still sees use in antisemitic publications and websites today.\n\nJerome Chanes identifies six stages in the historical development of antisemitism:\n\nAccording to Norman Roth, \"far more attention has [been] focused on Jewish moneylending than on any other occupation\". He asserts that general histories of the medieval period, if they mention Jews at all, refer to them as moneylenders or as being involved in the slave trade. He asserts that there is not a great abundance of research on commercial activity of Jews in the Middle East. He accuses scholars of making \"sweeping generalizations that would be \"laughable and unthinkable in any other context\".\n\nThroughout the Middle Ages, Jews were subjected to a wide range of legal disabilities and restrictions, some of which lasted until the end of the 19th century. At times, even moneylending and peddling were forbidden to them. The number of Jews permitted to reside in different places was limited. They were concentrated in ghettos were not allowed to own land, they were subject to discriminatory taxes on entering cities or districts other than their own, they were forced to swear special Jewish Oaths and they suffered a variety of other measures.\n\nThe exclusion of Jews from many trades and craft guilds began after the First Crusade (1096–1099). lThe exclusion often came at the urging of the clergy, local guild members, state and local governments. Jews were excluded in certain places from certain crafts as they were excluded by the craft guilds in certain trades and, indirectly, agriculture by bans on land-ownership. That often led Jews into peddling, second-hand goods, pawnbroking and moneylending.\n\nIn Southern Europe, Christian competitors of Jews in several occupations, including moneylending, asked leaders to expel Jews to reduce competition.\n\nThe result of those occupational restrictions was to push Jews into marginal roles, considered socially inferior, such as tax and rent collecting and moneylending, which were tolerated as a \"necessary evil\".\n\nAlthough Jews had not been particularly associated with moneylending in antiquity, a stereotype of them doing so was developed beginning in the 11th century. Jonathan Frankel notes that the stereotype, though obviously an exaggeration, had a solid basis in reality. While not all Jews were moneylenders, Jews were probably disproportionately represented in that trade.\n\nCatholic doctrine then held that lending money for interest was a sin and so so was an occupation forbidden to Christians. Not being subject to the restriction, Jews made that business their own despite possible criticism of usury in the Torah and later sections of the Hebrew Bible. Unfortunately, that led to many negative stereotypes of Jews as insolent, greedy usurers, and the understandable tensions between creditors, typically Jews, and debtors, typically Christians, added to social, political, religious and economic strains. Peasants who were forced to pay their taxes to Jews could see them as personally taking their money while they were unaware of those on whose behalf those Jews worked.\n\nHoward Sachar wrote that the occupations that were left for Jews to engage in were often the occupations that Christians disdained, such as peddling, hawking and moneylending. He estimated that three fourths of Jews in Central and Western Europe were occupied in those occupations in the 18th century. Sachar stated, \"In their [Jews'] struggle for livelihood, they generated a sizable underclass of beggars, fencers, pimps, even robbers, thereby creating a self-fulfilling gentile scenario of Jews, one that would endlessly invoked by Jew-haters throughout the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries\". Similarly, Todeschini wrote that the perception of Jews as dishonest and immoral became a self-fulfilling prophecy because the exclusion from other professions forced them to engage in moneylending and other marginal professions that were regarded as unethical.\n\nOne of the reasons that moneylending was open to Jews as a profession was that European Christian culture regarded moneylending as sinful or immoral. That caused Christians to avoid the profession, leaving a vacuum for which Jews could fill. The Christian abhorrence of moneylending was rooted in the Old Testament laws of , , and . Those biblical rules were emphasized in the Middle Ages again in the Lateran councils, particularly the Second Lateran Council in 1139, and the Fourth Lateran Council in 1215, but proclamations of the Catholic Church outlawed excessively-high interest rates]], not all interest.\n\nMax Dimont asserts that moneylending, of all professions, was the \"most reviled\". The occupation of moneylending was considered a \"degenerate\" profession in the 14th century by many Christians, including Franciscans in England such as John Peckham, who engaged in discussions of usury and debt.\n\nOne reason that Christians permitted Jews to engage in moneylending, despite it being considered a sinful activity, was that Jews were already considered to be damned and so they may as well commit the sin of usury, thus saving the souls of Christians who would otherwise be forced to lend money.\n\nMoneylending became an important occupation for Jews, beginning in the early Middle Ages, and continuing into the modern era. Moneylending was first noted as a significant occupation in the 9th century, and in the 10th century, some Jews were large scale financiers. That prevalence in the field of moneylending has led to scholarly debate, which considered why Jews gravitated towards money-related occupations.\n\nDimont writes that the Jewish role in moneylending was the most important contribution of Jews to medieval society since the feudal culture might have failed without a flow of capital. Foxman writes that the moneylending profession gave rise to the modern financial industries, including banking. Over time, Jews became very skilled at both commerce and moneylending. Some European leaders encouraged Jews to engage in moneylending because it enhanced economic activity and provided personal benefit to the leaders themselves. In addition, leaders benefited from Jewish moneylenders by collecting fees and taxes. Throughout Europe, Jews filled the role of Court Jew for virtually every seat of nobility. However, some European leaders expelled Jews from their countries (England 1290, France 1306 and 1394), depriving themselves of the economic benefits provided by the moneylenders.\n\nAlthough most scholars attribute the large number of Jews in the moneylending occupation to the exclusion from other crafts and trades, Werner Sombart, in his \"The Jews and Modern Capitalism\", asserted that moneylending was an occupation that many Jews preferred and chose. As evidence, he pointed out his book that Jews had heavily been engaged in moneylending before the era when they were excluded from trades and crafts and also that Jews' religion and culture predisposed them to commercial and financial endeavours. Because Sombart speculated on anthropological and racial explanations, his work has been described as antisemitic and racist. However, some modern scholars characterise his presentation of the topic as sympathetic and valid. Sombart's work was a watershed in the scholarship of Jewish culture because it prompted subsequent historians and economists to begin to examine the relationship between Jews and money.\n\nSombart contends that many of the trade and craft prohibitions were rarely enforced and so Jews could have found employment in many of the proscribed occupations if they had desired. However, Sombart writes that Jews were absolutely excluded from government jobs, that exclusion being more significant than the putative trade exclusions. He also suggests that exclusion from government jobs had some incidental benefits for Jews because it freed them from problems associated with political partisanship.\n\nPenslar asserted that the \"more fantastic aspects of medieval antisemitism, which include the demonization of Jews, and accusations of ritual murder and black magic were (incompletely) suppressed, to some extent, by the combined forces of Protestantism and the modern state\", but economic antisemitism did not share the same fate because \"it has fit as well into a rationalized worldview as a magical one, into a secular sensibility as a theological one\".\n\nAccording to Perry and Schweitzer, \"Jewish economic endeavors labored under the stigma, variously, of being 'unproductive', sterile, parasitic, usurious, dangerous, dishonest, criminal and the like\".\n\nPrior to around 1820 in Europe, most Jews were peddlers and shopkeepers, but after the Jewish emancipation, in the 19th century, Jews were able to migrate to the middle and upper classes and to engage in a wider variety of occupations. In 1859, the Austrian Empire had guilds abolished, which was an opportunity for Jews to enter \"liberal professions\" such as law, journalism and medicine.\n\nIn the mid-19th century, a number of German Jews founded investment banking firms, which later became mainstays of the industry. Most prominent Jewish banks in the US were investment banks, rather than commercial banks. Jonathan Knee postulates that Jews were forced to focus on the development of investment banks because they were excluded from the commercial banking sector.\n\nAfter legislation supporting the equality of French Jews with other citizens during the French Revolution, similar laws promoting Jewish emancipation were enacted in the early 19th century in parts of Europe over which France had influence. The old laws restricting them to ghettos and the many laws that limited their rights to property, worship and occupation were rescinded.\n\nDespite the lifting of official economic restrictions against Jews throughout Europe, economic stereotypes and unofficial or semiofficial restrictions on the economic activity of Jews continued. Bernard Lazare commented, \"Economic antisemitism to-day is stronger than it ever was, for the reason that to-day, more than ever, the Jew appears powerful and rich. Formerly he was not seen: he remained hidden in his Ghetto, far from Christian eyes. He had but one care, to conceal his wealth, that wealth of which tradition regarded him as the gatherer, and not the proprietor. The day he was freed from his disabilities, the day the restrictions put to his activities fell away, the Jew showed himself in public\".\n\nHoward Sachar wrote that throughout much of the 19th century, popular literature and theatrical performances in the Austrian and German empires were merciless in their caricatures of the Rothschilds as \"Jewish cash bags\" or \"Jews behind the throne\". Those caricatures evolved from mere political satire to more-overt antisemitism in the early 20th century. Sachar noted the irony that Jewish proponents of communism, such as Marx, were partially responsible for antisemitism targeting the relationship between Jews and capitalism.\n\nOne example of economic antisemitism was promulgated in France by Édouard Drumont in his 1879 pamphlet \"What we Demand of Modern Jewry\" that contrasted the poverty of French workers with the wealth of Jewish bankers and industrialists.\n\nBy the time of the American Civil War, tensions over race and immigration and economic competition between Jews and non-Jews combined to produce the worst American outbreak of anti-Semitism until then. Americans on both sides of the slavery issue denounced Jews as disloyal war profiteers and accused them of driving Christians out of business and aiding and abetting the enemy.\n\nMajor General Ulysses S. Grant was influenced by such sentiments and issued General Order No. 11, expelling Jews from areas under his control in western Tennessee:\n\nThe Jews, as a class violating every regulation of trade established by the Treasury Department and also department orders, are hereby expelled... within twenty-four hours from the receipt of this order.\n\nThat order was quickly rescinded by President Abraham Lincoln, but it already been enforced in a number of towns. According to Jerome Chanes, Lincoln's revocation of Grant's order was based primarily on \"constitutional strictures against...the federal government singling out any group for special treatment\". Chanes characterised the order as \"unique in the history of the United States\" because it was the only overtly-antisemitic official action of the US government.\n\nGrant later issued an order \"that no Jews are to be permitted to travel on the road southward\". His aide, Colonel John V. DuBois, ordered \"all cotton speculators, Jews, and all vagabonds with no honest means of support\" to leave the district. \"The Israelites especially should be kept out… they are such an intolerable nuisance\".\n\nFrom the early 1880s, declining farm prices also prompted elements of the Populist movement to blame the perceived evils of capitalism and industrialism on Jews because of their alleged racial/religious inclination for financial exploitation. More specifically, they alleged financial manipulations by Jewish financiers such as the Rothschilds. Although Jews played only a minor role in the nation's commercial banking system, the prominence of Jewish investment bankers, such as the Rothschilds in Europe, Jacob Schiff, and Kuhn, Loeb & Co. in New York City, made the claims of anti-Semites believable to some. In the 1890s, Mary Elizabeth Lease, an American farming activist and populist from Kansas, frequently blamed the Rothschilds and \"British bankers\" for farmers' ills.\n\nThe Morgan Bonds scandal injected populist anti-Semitism into the 1896 presidential campaign. It was disclosed that President Grover Cleveland had sold bonds to a syndicate that included J. P. Morgan and the Rothschilds. The syndicate was now selling the bonds for a profit, and the Populists used that as an opportunity to uphold their view of history that both Washington, DC, and Wall Street were in the hands of international Jewish banking houses.\n\nAnother focus of anti-Semitism was the allegation that Jews were at the middle of an international conspiracy to fix the currency, and thus the economy, to a single gold standard.\n\n\"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", an antisemitic text, purported to describe a Jewish plan to achieve global domination and to document the minutes of a late-19th-century meeting attended by world Jewish leaders, the \"Elders of Zion\", conspiring to take over the world. The fraudulent \"Protocols\" included plans to subvert the morals of the non-Jewish world, to control the world's economies by Jewish bankers, to have the press in Jewish control of the press and ultimately destroy civilisation. The document of 24 \"protocols\" was analysed by Steven Jacobs and Mark Weitzman, who documented several protocols that suggested that Jews would employ control of the worlds banking system to dominate the world. Those that focus on economic issues are 2, 3, 4, 21 and 22.\n\nHenry Ford was a non-interventionist who opposed both world wars and believed that Jews were responsible for starting wars to profit from them: \"International financiers are behind all war. They are what is called the international Jew: German Jews, French Jews, English Jews, American Jews. I believe that in all those countries except our own the Jewish financier is supreme... here the Jew is a threat\". Ford also shared Marx's view that Jews were responsible for capitalism. He believed that in their role as financiers, they did not contribute anything of value to society.\n\nIn 1915, during World War I, Ford blamed Jews for instigating the war: \"I know who caused the war: German-Jewish bankers\". In 1925, Ford said, \"What I oppose most is the international Jewish money power that is met in every war. That is what I oppose - a power that has no country and that can order the young men of all countries out to death\". According to Steven Watts, Ford's antisemitism was partially caused by a desire for world peace.\n\nFord became aware of \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\". Believing them to be legitimate document, he published portions of it in his newspaper, \"The Dearborn Independent\". From 1920 to 1921, the \"Dearborn Independent\" also carried a series of articles expanding on the themes of financial control by Jews. One of the articles, \"Jewish Power and America's Money Famine\", asserted that the power exercised by Jews over the nation's supply of money was insidious by helping deprive farmers and others outside the banking coterie of money when they needed it most. The article asked, \"Where is the American gold supply?... It may be in the United States but it does not belong to the United States\". It drew the conclusion that Jews controlled the gold supply and thus American money. Another of the articles, \"Jewish Idea Molded Federal Reserve System\", was a reflection of Ford's suspicion of the Federal Reserve System and its proponent, Paul Warburg. Ford believed that the Federal Reserve was secretive and insidious. Those articles gave rise to claims of antisemitism against Ford, and in 1929, he signed a statement apologising for the articles.\n\nAntisemitism and the persecution of Jews represented a central tenet of Nazism. In its 25-point Party Program, published in 1920, Nazi Party members publicly declared their intention to segregate Jews from \"Aryan\" society and to abrogate Jews' political, legal and civil rights. Nazi leaders began to carry out their pledge to persecute German Jews soon after their assumption of power.\n\nAdolf Hitler rose to power in Germany during a time of economic depression. Hitler blamed Jews for Germany's economic woes. Hitler's book \"Mein Kampf\" (German for \"My Struggle\") included the following passage, which was representative of much antisemitism in Germany and Europe: \"The Jewish train of thought in all this is clear. The Bolshevization of Germany - that is, the extermination of the national folkish Jewish intelligentsia to make possible the sweating of the German working class under the yoke of Jewish world finance - is conceived only as a preliminary to the further extension of this Jewish tendency of world conquest... If our people and our state become the victim of these blood-thirsty and avaricious Jewish tyrants of nations, the whole earth will sink into the snares of this octopus\".\n\nFrom 1933, repressive laws were passed against Jews, culminating in the Nuremberg Laws, which removed most of the rights of citizenship from Jews by using a racial definition based on descent, rather than any religious definition of who was a Jew. Sporadic violence against the Jews became widespread with the Kristallnacht riots, which targeted Jewish homes, businesses and places of worship, killing hundreds across Germany, including the newly-annexed Austria.\n\nThe ideologically-antisemitic agenda of that culminated in the genocide of the Jews of Europe, known as the Holocaust.\n\nThe first major law to curtail the rights of Jewish German citizens was the Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service on April 7, 1933. Those who were Jewish or \"politically unreliable\" were now excluded from state service.\n\nThat was the German authorities' first formulation of the so-called Aryan Paragraph, which excluded Jews (and often other \"non-Aryans\") from organizations, professions, and other aspects of public life. In April 1933, German law restricted the number of Jewish students at German schools and universities. In the same month, further legislation sharply curtailed \"Jewish activity\" in the medical and legal professions. Subsequent laws and decrees restricted reimbursement of Jewish doctors from state health insurance funds.\n\nOn April 1, 1933, Jewish doctors, shops, lawyers and stores were boycotted. Only six days later, the Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service was passed, banning Jews from being employed in government. Jews were now indirectly and directly dissuaded or banned from privileged and upper-level positions reserved for \"Aryanization]]\", the dismissal of Jewish workers and managers of a company and/or the takeover of Jewish-owned businesses by non-Jewish Germans, who bought them at bargain prices, fixed by government or Nazi party officials. On March 1, 1938, government contracts could no longer be awarded to Jewish businesses. On September 30, the government forbade Jewish doctors to treat non-Jews, and it revoked the licences of Jewish lawyers.\n\nAfter the [[Kristallnacht]] (commonly known as \"Night of Broken Glass\") pogrom of November 9–10, 1938, Nazi leaders stepped up \"Aryanization\" efforts and enforced measures that increasingly succeeded in physically isolating and segregating Jews from their fellow Germans. Jews were barred from all public schools and universities as well as from cinemas, theatres and sports facilities. In many cities, Jews were forbidden to enter designated \"Aryan\" zones. German decrees and ordinances expanded the ban on Jews in professional life. By September 1938, for instance, Jewish physicians were effectively banned from treating \"Aryan\" patients.\n\nBy April 1939, nearly all Jewish companies had either collapsed under financial pressure and declining profits or had been forced to sell out to the Nazi German government. That further reduced Jews' rights as human beings, and they were in many ways officially separated from the German populace.\n\nAntisemitism was particularly virulent in [[Vichy France]] during [[World War II]]. The antisemitic demands of right-wing groups were implemented under the collaborating Vichy regime of Marshal [[Philippe Pétain]] after the defeat of the French by the German army in 1940. A [[Vichy laws on the status of Jews|law on the status of Jews]] that year, followed by one in 1941, purged Jews from employment in administrative, civil service and judicial posts; most professions and even from the entertainment industry, restricting most of them to menial jobs.\n\n[[William Korey]] describes a 1977 [[Academy of Sciences of the USSR]] report, \"International Zionism: History and Politics\", alleging that \"Jewish bourgeoisie\", using Zionism as a cover, sought \"the expansion of their positions in the economy of the largest capitalist states... and in the economic system of world capitalism as a whole\". The report specifically mentioned six Wall Street investment firms: [[Lazard Brothers]], [[Lehman Brothers]], [[Kuhn, Loeb & Co.]], [[Loeb Rhoades]], [[Bache & Co.]] and [[Goldman-Sachs]]. The report also expounded on the \"clannish\" theory that Jewish financial firms around the world were related by family-ties and collaborated unethically.\n\nIn 1922, educational discrimination became a national issue when [[Harvard College]] announced that it was considering a quota system for Jewish students. Although it was eventually dropped, the quota was enforced in many colleges by underhanded techniques. As late as 1945, [[Dartmouth College|Dartmouth]] openly admitted and defended a quota system against Jewish students. To limit the growing number of Jewish students, a number of private liberal arts universities and medical and dental schools instituted a quota system referred to as [[Numerus clausus#Numerus clausus in the United States|numerus clausus]]. Those included Harvard University, [[Columbia University]], [[Cornell University]],l and [[Boston University]]. In 1925, [[Yale University]], which already had such admissions preferences as \"character\", \"solidity\" and \"physical characteristics\", added a program of [[legacy preference]] admission spots for children of Yale alumni in an explicit attempt to put the brakes on the rising percentage of Jews in the student body. That was soon copied by other Ivy League and other schools, and admissions of Jews were kept down to 10% until the 1950s. Such policies were for the most part discarded during the early 1960s, but the last vestiges were not eliminated at Yale University until 1970.\n\nJews encountered resistance when they tried to move into white-collar and professional positions. Banking, insurance, public utilities, medical schools, hospitals, large law firms and faculty positions restricted the entrance of Jews. That era of \"polite\" antisemitism by social discrimination underwent an ideological escalation in the 1930s.\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League documented one of the more common aspects of money-related antisemitism: the claim that the United States' Federal Reserve System was created by Jews and is run by them for their own financial benefit. The ADL gives examples of that myth repeated by [[Aryan Nations]], [[Louis Farrakhan]], Sheldon Emry and Wickliffe Vennard. Another example cited is [[Bo Gritz]], the 1992 Presidential candidate of the [[Populist Party (United States, 1984)|Populist Party]], in his book \"Called to Serve\".\n\nFoxman rebuts the Federal Reserve myth, in his book \"Jews and Money\", by explaining that the Federal Reserve is a quasi-public entity that was created and is controlled by the [[US Congress]].\n\nVarious incarnations of money-related antisemitism have been documented in the Islamic world. In a 1968 conference at the [[University of Cairo]], a speaker proclaimed that \"money-worship [is among the] inherent qualities in them [the Jews]... They are characterized by avarice and many other vices, which arose from selfishness, love of worldly life, and envy...\"\n\nArabs' discourse on the Holocaust displays various instances of economic antisemitic rhetoric. One such example is [[Muhammad Sayyid Tantawi|Shaykh Muhammad Sayyid al-Tantawi]]'s 1997 book \"The Israelites in the Qur’an\". He was an integral part of the religious leadership in Egypt, which purported the idea that Jews had undermined Islam throughout history. In the book, Jews are characterised as a swindler people starting both world wars for selfish economic gain and taking over the German economy as a result of their sinister fiscal techniques. Tantawi used that perception of Jews as a justification for Hitler’s genocidal agenda and said that it is \"iittle wonder that the Germans rose against them several times and employed all the means of killing, expulsion, and pillage\".\n\nThe [[Murabitun World Movement|Murabitun organization]] has published policy statements that are antisemitic and concentrate on breaking Jewish control of the world financial system.\n\nAccording to [[Robert S. Wistrich]], both [[Hamas]] and [[Hezbollah]] routinely blame \"the world banking crisis on the Jews who supposedly control the American government and economy\".\n\n[[Osama bin Laden]], in his 2002 \"Letter to America\", wrote, \"You [United States] are the nation that permits usury, which has been forbidden by all religions. yet you build your economy and investments on Usury. As a result of all this, in all its different forms and guises, the Jews have taken control of your economy, through which they have taken control of your media, and now control all aspects of your life making you their servants and achieving aims at their expense.\"\n\n[[Mahmoud Ahmadinejad]], the president of [[Iran]], told the [[United Nations]] General Assembly in 2008 that the Zionists \"have been dominating an important portion of the financial and monetary centers... in a deceitful, complex, and furtive manner\".\n\nFoxman also identifies editorials, cartoons and news stories throughout the Middle East as sources that repeat money-related antisemitic myths.\n\nThe [[Nation of Islam]] has promulgated some money-based antisemitic myths, particularly in its book \"[[The Secret Relationship Between Blacks and Jews]]\". Volume 1 claims that Jews played a major role in the Atlantic slave trade and profited from black slavery. Volume 2 of the book alleges that Jews in America exploited black labour and innovation in cotton, textiles, music and banking, for example. The book also asserts that Jews have promoted a myth of black racial inferiority.\n\nNation of Islam leader [[Louis Farrakhan]] has also elaborated on these concepts in speeches, making statements such as \"The Federal Reserve is the synagogue of Satan... the House of Rothschild\" and \"The Black man and woman have always been looked upon as the 'property' of White America, and particularly, members of the Jewish community\".\n\nUS Activist Kieth Shive, of the Farmers Liberation Army published a position paper in the 1980s that promoted agricultural activism and listed as goals \"(1) Get rid of the privately held Federal Reserve System... and its phony money; (2) Adopt a sane US monetary policy which eliminates interest payments to the International Bankers...\" Author Daniel Levitas interpretd that as a veiled antisemitic statement because Shive also repeated a fictitious quote attributed to [[Mayer Amschel Rothschild]]: \"Let me issue and control the money of a country and I care not who passes the laws\", which was contended by to apply to the Federal Reserve System.\n\nIn the 1970s, the white supremacist movement in the United States adopted the position that Jews are \"parasites and vultures\" who are attempting to enslave Aryans by dominating world banking and media. White supremacists such as William L. Pierce have repeated money-based antisemitic myths.\n\nThe militia movement in the United States is also a source of money-based antisemitism. Its leaders include Bo Gritz, who alleges that the Federal Reserve System is controlled by Jews, and John Trochman, who believes that the nation's problems are the fault of a Jewish \"banking elite\".\n\nAccording to Rosensaft and Bauer, the international Arab boycott constitutes a \"new economic antisemitism\". Irwin Cotler elaborates that the new economic antisemitism involves Arab countries applying an international restrictive covenant against corporations in other countries by conditioning their trade with Arab countries to the following:\n\n\nJews have been portrayed as miserly and greedy in both belles-lettres and popular literature.\n\nThe character Shylock in William Shakespeare's play \"The Merchant of Venice\" is a Jewish moneylender who is portrayed in unscrupulous and avaricious. Penslar asserts that Shylock is a metaphor for the Jewish \"otherness\" and that he represents the \"inseparability of Jewish religious, social, and economic distinctiveness\". Gerald Krefetz calls Shylock a \"classic image\" that has haunted Jews ever since it first appeared since it made Jews a scapegoat.\n\nHistorian Richard Hofstadter wrote that Shylock was used as the basis for \"crankery\" by Charles Coughlin and Ezra Pound.\n\nJohn Gross stated that Shylock represents \"the sinister international financier\" on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nFoxman contends that Shylock may have contributed to antisemitism in Japan since \"The Merchant of Venice\" has been translated into Japanese more than any other play by Shakespeare.\n\nThe character Fagin in Charles Dickens's novel \"Oliver Twist\" is depicted as avaricious and has served to support antisemitic stereotypes. Dickens claimed that he held Jews in high regard,l and that the depiction of Fagin was simply a caricature that was based upon actual persons and, in an apparent demonstration of remorse, he removed many occurrences of the word \"Jew\" from later editions of the work.\n\nPoet Ezra Pound mentions Jewish attitudes towards money in his \"The Cantos\", which has as primarily economic and governance themes. In the poem, Jews are implicated in sinister manipulations of the money supply.\n\nFoxman asserts, \"\"The Cantos\" include a \"vicious diatribe against interest-paying finance\" and that it has sections with antisemitic passages. l In Canto 52, \"Stinkschuld's [Rothschilds] sin drawing vengeance, poor yitts paying for / Stinkschuld [Rothschilds] / paying for a few big jews' vendetta on goyim\" had the name Rothschilds replaced by \"Stinkschulds\" at the insistence of Pound's publisher.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8742168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8742168", "title": "El primer nueva corónica y buen gobierno", "text": "El primer nueva corónica y buen gobierno\n\nEl primer nueva crónica y buen gobierno (English: \"The First New Chronicle and Good Government\"), is a Peruvian chronicle finished around 1615. Its author, the indigenous Peruvian Felipe Guaman Poma de Ayala, sent it as a handwritten manuscript to King Philip III of Spain. His purpose was to give a historical account of the Andes from the earliest human beings to the Incas and the Spanish conquest; it was also meant as a call of attention towards the deep problems caused by Spanish government in the region. The manuscript was never published and its location for the next several centuries was unknown. The scholar Richard Pietschmann rediscovered it at the Royal Danish Library in Copenhagen in 1908; Paul Rivet published a facsimile edition in Paris in 1936. Some researchers believe that the manuscript traveled from Spain to Denmark via the library of the Count-Duke of Olivares, in Spain, part of which was sold to Cornelius Pedersen Lerche, ambassador of Denmark in Spain. Nevertheless, this is only speculation.\n\nThe chronicle covers ancient Andean history, the rise of the Inca empire, the Spanish conquest in the 1530s, and early colonial society and government. Guaman Poma's discussion of Inca rule describes religion, social order, legislation, annual festivals and economic organization, as well as the functions of the different social groups. His narrative of Inca and pre-Inca times is often inaccurate according to modern understandings, but reflects how the Incas were remembered in the early colonial period, as well as Guaman Poma's distinctive ideas. Approximately half the book is dedicated to a description and harsh critique of Spanish colonial rule; scholars consider this section of the book as a uniquely valuable and reliable historical source. The book contains a large number of detailed illustrations which are often reproduced in books and articles about pre-conquest and colonial Peru. Guaman Poma dedicated the book to King Philip III of Spain, in the hope of improving colonial rule, but there is no evidence that the king ever saw the book.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25845427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25845427", "title": "Elizabeth Minchin", "text": "Elizabeth Minchin\n\nElizabeth Hume Minchin is an Australian classicist and Professor of Classics at the Australian National University (ANU). Until 2014 she was one of the two editors of \"Antichthon\", the journal of the Australasian Society for Classical Studies.\n\nBorn in Sydney, eldest child of Armand and Danella Gunner, she attended St George Girls High School 1957-1961. After finishing her BA and Dip Ed at the University of Sydney, Minchin taught French, Latin, and Indonesian at Narrabundah College, Canberra from 1966 to 1972. She completed an MA (1983) and PhD (1989) in Classics at the ANU. Married since 1970, she has two sons.\n\nMinchin's research focuses on the Homeric epics as oral poetry. Her main contribution is the application of cognitive psychology and sociolinguistics to the narratological studies of the Homeric epics. Her studies have encouraged classical scholars to recognise the continued relevance of linguistic studies for Homeric epic. She has published extensively.\n\nHer book \"Homer and the Resources of Memory\" (OUP, 2001) draws on several forms of narratology and cognitive science, such as the script theory developed in the 1970s by Roger Schank and Robert Abelson. The book was recognised as 'a ground-breaking exploration of some of the ways the social sciences can help us better understand the mind of the poet who produced the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\".' \n\nHer book \"Homeric Voices: Discourse, Memory, Gender\" (OUP, 2007) provides a compositional study of substantial speeches and exchanges of speech in Homeric songs. The book confirmed her as 'a pioneer in interdisciplinary research in the field.'\n\nShe was among the recipients of the 2007 Carrick Award for Australian University Teaching in the category \"Citation for Outstanding Contributions to Student Learning\".\n\nIn 2010 she was elected a Fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities and in 2014 she was elected Honorary Secretary of the Academy.\n\nIn 2013 she was appointed a Senior Fellow of the UK-based Higher Education Academy (HEA).\n\nShe has been a visiting scholar at Cambridge University (Clare Hall), Oxford University (Corpus Christi College), Brown University and Konstanz University. She was a member of the ARC-funded ANU-University of Melbourne 2010 Gallipoli Project.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2014 she was a member of the Board of Fellows of University House, Australian National University as one of the Vice Chancellor's nominees. She was elected to the Board in 2015.\n\nShe has been active in the Friends of the ANU Classics Museum as President and in other executive positions. She has been active in The Australian Archaeological Institute at Athens as President of the Canberra (ANU) Friends and in other executive positions. \n\nANU appointed her an Emeritus Professor in 2015 and awarded her \"2016 Alumnus of the Year – Research or Academia\".\n\nIn 2015 she became a member of the board of directors of Luminescence Chamber Singers, a Canberra-based group of young choristers who perform as a virtuosic vocal octet. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "12482015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12482015", "title": "Enayatollah Reza", "text": "Enayatollah Reza\n\nEnayatollah Reza (; June 18, 1920 in Rasht – July 20, 2010 in Tehran) was an Iranian historian and professor of philosophy, a former member of the Iranian Communist Party, and a former Iranian military officer. He was a member of the Supreme Academic Council of the Centre for Iranian and Islamic Studies in Tehran, Iran, the publishers of the \"Encyclopaedia Islamica\". His research concerned the historical regions of Iranian Azerbaijan and Caucasian Arran; based on this research, he claimed that \"Azerbaijan\" should properly refer only to the land south of the Aras River (in Iran) and that the country of Azerbaijan should instead be called \"Aran\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17740151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17740151", "title": "Erfoud manuport", "text": "Erfoud manuport\n\nThe Erfoud manuport is a prehistoric manuport in the form of a fossilized fragment of a cuttlefish. Originating some 300,000 BP, the fossil was collected in 1984 by Lutz Fiedler of Marburg University, Germany. The fossil was found at an archaeological site near the towns of Erfoud and Rissani in eastern Morocco.\n\nThe fossil was located among a dense cluster of Late Acheulian stone tools. While cuttlefish fossils are not themselves rare, they are not found native to the region in which the Erfoud manuport was found. It has therefore been thought that this fossil was intentionally brought back to the camp due to its natural phallic resemblance. No evidence of carving or shaping have been detected.\n\n"}
{"id": "42343075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42343075", "title": "Gabor Batonyi", "text": "Gabor Batonyi\n\nGabor Batonyi is a Hungarian historian who has published numerous historical books. Since the late 1990s, he has been a lecturer in the department of Peace Studies at the University of Bradford where he teaches History. He served as the Foreign Affairs Editor for the Hungarian Television Company (MTV) in 1989–1992. He is a fellow of the Royal Historical Society and one of the editors of the journal \"Central and Eastern European Review\".\n\nHis principal research topics are recent Central European history, focusing on the history of Hungary 1918–1989, British foreign policy in Central Europe, including interwar diplomatic history, British intelligence and special operations during the Second World War, and the relationship between Britain and Hungary from 1918.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "763495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=763495", "title": "Geneviève de Galard", "text": "Geneviève de Galard\n\nGeneviève de Galard (born 13 April 1925) is a French nurse who was dubbed \"l'ange de Dien Bien Phu\" (\"the Angel of Dien Bien Phu\") during the French war in Indochina by the press in Hanoi, although in the camp she was known simply as Geneviève.\n\nGeneviève de Galard was born in the southwest of France. The Second World War forced her family to move from Paris to Toulouse.\n\nShe passed the state exam to become a nurse and eventually became a flight nurse for the French Air Force. She was posted to French Indochina by her own request and arrived there in May 1953, in the middle of the war between French forces and the Vietminh.\n\nServing as a \"convoyeuse\" or in-flight nurse, she was stationed in Hanoi and flew on casualty evacuation flights from Pleiku. After January 1954, she was on the flights that evacuated casualties from the Battle of Dien Bien Phu. Her first patients were mainly soldiers who suffered from diseases but after mid-March most of them were battle casualties. Sometimes, Red Cross planes had to land in the midst of Vietminh artillery barrages.\n\nGalard found herself stuck in Dien Bien Phu on March 28, 1954 when the C-47 on which she was the \"convoyeuse\" landed in fog and damaged an oil tank which prevented its taking off again. The mechanics could not repair the plane in the field, so the plane was stranded. At daylight Vietminh artillery destroyed the C-47 and damaged the runway beyond repair.\n\nVolunteering to work in the field hospital, Galard was the only female nurse at Dien Bien Phu. Her special status earned her a small parachute silk-lined cell with a cot and chair for a bedroom. In a letter, her mother expressed gratitude for her safety, mentioning that there was no longer a risk of her plane crashing. At the hospital she served under Dr. Paul Grauwin. The men of the medical staff were initially apprehensive about her presence as she was not just the only female nurse on the base, but the sole French woman there, although there were two Bordels Mobiles de Campagne (Mobile Field Brothels) populated with Algerian and Vietnamese prostitutes. Her hard work and willingness to tackle even the most gruesome tasks eventually won them over and they made accommodations for her. They also arranged a semblance of uniform; camouflage overalls, trousers, basketball shoes, and a T-shirt. Galard did her best in very unsanitary conditions, comforting those about to die and trying to keep up morale in the face of the mounting casualties. Many of the men later complimented her efforts. Eventually, she was placed in charge of a forty-bed room for housing some of the most gravely wounded.\n\nOn 29 April 1954, Geneviève de Galard was awarded the \"Légion d´honneur\" (as a knight) and the \"Croix de Guerre TOE\" (Croix de guerre des théâtres d'opérations extérieurs (War Cross for foreign operational theaters)). It was presented to her by the commander of Dien Bien Phu, General de Castries. The following day, during the celebration of the French Foreign Legion's annual \"Camerone\" Day, de Galard was made an honorary \"Légionnaire de 1ère classe\" alongside Lieutenant Colonel Marcel Bigeard, the commander of the 6th Colonial Parachute Battalion. After the induction ceremony she told her Foreign Legionnaire sponsor: \"If we ever get out of this alive, I'll pay you a bottle of champagne no matter where we meet.\" In 1963 while driving with her husband in Paris she saw the Legionnaire, got out of her car, embraced him and made good on her promise.\n\nFrench troops at Dien Bien Phu finally capitulated on 7 May. However, the Vietminh allowed Galard and the medical staff to continue to care for their wounded and she worked changing bandages despite short supplies. Galard still refused any kind of cooperation. When some of the Vietminh began to hoard medical supplies for their own use, she hid some of them under her stretcher bed.\n\nOn 24 May, Geneviève de Galard was evacuated to French-held Hanoi, partially against her will. She was the first of the medical staff to leave and quickly became a media sensation, appearing on the cover of \"Paris Match\" that week.\n\nAs early as May 19, when Galard was still in captivity, U.S. Congresswoman Frances P. Bolton urged United States Secretary of State John Foster Dulles to invite the French nurse to the United States. When she arrived in New York City in July, she was met at the plane by Mayor Robert Wagner and a large crowd. Congresswoman Bolton introduced her as a \"symbol of heroic femininity in the free world\" and a parade down Broadway in her honor was attended by perhaps 250,000 spectators. She was then given a reception at city hall.\n\nHaving flown to Washington, D.C. on a U.S. Air Force plane, she was recognized before the House of Representatives. On 29 July 1954, President Dwight D. Eisenhower awarded her the Presidential Medal of Freedom during a ceremony in the White House Rose Garden, calling her the \"woman of the year\" She was then sent on a tour of six states where she met with luminaries and appeared before large crowds in cities such as Cleveland, Chicago, New Orleans, and San Francisco. The French ambassador to the United States called her visit \"an exceptional success\".\n\nGeneviève de Galard lives in Paris with her husband, Colonel Jean de Heaulme de Boutsocq.\n\n"}
{"id": "32070455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32070455", "title": "Guatemalan Revolution", "text": "Guatemalan Revolution\n\nThe Guatemalan Revolution () was the period in Guatemalan history between the popular uprising that overthrew dictator Jorge Ubico in 1944 and the United States-orchestrated coup d'état in 1954 that unseated President Jacobo Árbenz. It is also known as the Ten Years of Spring, highlighting the only years of representative democracy in Guatemala from 1930 until the end of the civil war in 1996, and included a program of agrarian reform that was enormously influential across Latin America.\n\nFrom the late 19th century until 1944 Guatemala was governed by a series of authoritarian rulers who sought to strengthen the economy by supporting the export of coffee. Between 1898 and 1920, Manuel Estrada Cabrera granted significant concessions to the United Fruit Company, an American corporation that traded in tropical fruit, and dispossessed many indigenous people of their communal lands. Under Jorge Ubico, who ruled as a dictator between 1931 and 1944, this process was intensified, with the institution of harsh labor regulations and a police state.\n\nIn June 1944, a popular pro-democracy movement led by university students and labor organizations forced Ubico to resign. He appointed a three-person military junta to take his place, led by Federico Ponce Vaides. This junta continued Ubico's oppressive policies, until it was toppled in a military coup led by Jacobo Árbenz in October 1944, an event also known as the \"October Revolution\". The coup leaders formed a junta which swiftly called for open elections. These elections were won in a landslide by Juan José Arévalo, a progressive professor of philosophy who had become the face of the popular movement. He implemented a moderate program of social reform, including a widely successful literacy campaign and a largely free election process, although illiterate women were not given the vote and communist parties were banned.\n\nFollowing the end of Arévalo's presidency in 1951, Jacobo Árbenz was elected to the presidency in a landslide. The progressive military leader of 1944 continued Arévalo's reforms, and began an ambitious land-reform program, known as Decree 900. Under it, the uncultivated portions of large land-holdings were expropriated in return for compensation, and redistributed to poverty-stricken agricultural laborers. Approximately 500,000 people benefited from the decree. The majority of them were indigenous people, whose forebears had been dispossessed after the Spanish invasion. Árbenz's policies ran afoul of the United Fruit Company, which lost some of its uncultivated land. The company lobbied the US government for the overthrow of Árbenz, and the State Department responded by engineering a coup under the pretext that Árbenz was a communist. Carlos Castillo Armas took power at the head of a military junta, provoking the Guatemalan Civil War. The war lasted from 1960 to 1996, and saw the US-backed military commit genocide against the indigenous Maya peoples, and widespread human rights violations against civilians.\n\nPrior to the Spanish invasion in 1524, the population of Guatemala was almost exclusively Maya. The Spanish conquest created a system of wealthy European landowners overseeing a labor force composed of slaves and bonded laborers. However, the community lands of the indigenous population remained in their control until the late 19th century. At this point, rising global demand for coffee made its export a significant source of income for the government. As a result, the state supported the coffee growers by passing legislation that took land away from the Indian population, as well as relaxing labor laws so that bonded labor could be used on the plantations.\n\nThe US-based United Fruit Company (UFC) was one of many foreign companies that acquired large tracts of both state land and indigenous land. Manuel Estrada Cabrera, who was president of Guatemala from 1898 to 1920, permitted limited unionization in rural Guatemala, but also made further concessions to the UFC. In 1922, the Communist Party of Guatemala was created, and became a significant influence among urban laborers; however, it had little reach among the rural and Indian populations. In 1929, the Great Depression led to the collapse of the economy and a rise in unemployment, leading to unrest among workers and laborers. Fearing the possibility of a revolution, the landed elite lent their support to Jorge Ubico y Castañeda, who had built a reputation for ruthlessness and efficiency as a provincial governor. Ubico won the election that followed in 1931, in which he was the only candidate.\n\nUbico had made statements supporting the labor movement when campaigning for the presidency, but after his election his policy quickly became authoritarian. He abolished the system of debt peonage, and replaced it with a vagrancy law, which required all men of working age who did not own land to perform a minimum of 100 days of hard labor. In addition, the state made use of unpaid Indian labor to work on public infrastructure like roads and railroads. Ubico also froze wages at very low levels, and passed a law allowing land-owners complete immunity from prosecution for any action they took to defend their property, an action described by historians as legalizing murder. He greatly strengthened the police force, turning it into one of the most efficient and ruthless in Latin America. The police were given greater authority to shoot and imprison people suspected of breaking the labor laws. The result of these laws was to create tremendous resentment against him among agricultural laborers. Ubico was highly contemptuous of the country's indigenous people, once stating that they resembled donkeys.\n\nUbico had great admiration for the fascist leaders of Europe, such as Francisco Franco and Benito Mussolini. However, he saw the United States as an ally against the supposed communist threat of Mexico. He made a concerted effort to gain American support; when the US declared war on Germany and Japan in 1941, Ubico followed suit, and acting on American instructions arrested all people of German descent in Guatemala. He permitted the US to establish an air base in Guatemala, with the stated aim of protecting the Panama Canal. Like his predecessors, he made large concessions to the United Fruit Company, granting it hectares of public land in exchange for a promise to build a port. He later released the company from this obligation as well, citing the economic crisis. Since its entry into Guatemala, the UFC had expanded its land-holdings by displacing the peasantry and converting their farmland into banana plantations. This process accelerated under Ubico, whose government did nothing to stop it.\n\nThe onset of World War II increased economic unrest in Guatemala. Ubico responded by cracking down more fiercely on any form of protest or dissent. In 1944, popular revolt broke out in neighboring El Salvador, which briefly toppled dictator Maximiliano Hernández Martínez. However, he quickly returned to power, leading to a flood of exiled El Salvadorian revolutionaries moving to Guatemala. This coincided with a series of protests at the university in Guatemala City. Ubico responded by suspending the constitution on 22 June 1944. The protesters, who by this point included many middle-class members in addition to students and workers, called for a general strike, and presented an ultimatum to Ubico the next day, demanding the reinstatement of the constitution. They also presented him a petition signed by 311 of the most prominent Guatemalan citizens. Ubico sent the police to disrupt the protests by firing on them, and declared martial law. \n\nClashes between protesters and the military continued for a week, during which the revolt gained momentum. At the end of June, Ubico submitted his resignation to the National Assembly, leading to huge celebrations in the streets.\n\nThe resignation of Ubico did not restore democracy. Ubico appointed three generals, Federico Ponce Vaides, Eduardo Villagrán Ariza, and Buenaventura Pineda, to a junta which would lead the provisional government. A few days later, Ponce Vaides persuaded the congress to appoint him interim president. Ponce pledged to hold free elections soon, while at the same time suppressing the protests. Press freedom was suspended, arbitrary detentions continued, and memorial services for slain revolutionaries were prohibited. However, the protests had grown to the point where the government could not stamp them out, and rural areas also began organizing against the dictatorship. The government began using the police to intimidate the indigenous population to keep the junta in power through the forthcoming election. This resulted in growing support for an armed revolution among some sections of the populace. By now, the army was disillusioned with the junta, and progressives within it had begun to plot a coup.\n\nOn 1 October 1944, Alejandro Cordova, the editor of \"El Imparcial\", the main opposition newspaper, was assassinated. This led to the military coup plotters reaching out to the leaders of the protests, in an attempt to turn the coup into a popular uprising. Ponce Vaides announced elections, but the pro-democracy forces denounced them as a fraud, citing his attempts to rig them. Ponce Vaides sought to stabilize his regime by playing on inter-racial tension within the Guatemalan population. The most vocal support for the revolution had come from the Ladinos, or people of mixed racial or Spanish descent. Ponce Vaides sought to exploit their fear of the Indians by paying thousands of indigenous peasants to march in Guatemala City in his support, and promising them land if they supported the Liberal party that Ubico had begun as a front for the dictatorship.\n\nBy mid-October, several different plans to overthrow the junta had been set in motion by various factions of the pro-democracy movement, including teachers, students, and progressive factions of the army. On 19 October, the government learned of one of these conspiracies. \n\nThat same day, a small group of army officers launched a coup, led by Francisco Javier Arana and Jacobo Árbenz Guzmán. Although the coup had initially been plotted by Árbenz and Major Aldana Sandoval, Sandoval had prevailed upon Arana to join them; however, Sandoval himself did not participate in the coup attempt, and was described as having \"lost his nerve.\" They were joined the next day by other factions of the army and the civilian population. Initially, the battle went against the revolutionaries, but after an appeal for support their ranks were swelled by unionists and students, and they eventually subdued the police and army factions loyal to Ponce Vaides. On October 20, the next day, Ponce Vaides surrendered unconditionally.\n\nPonce Vaides was allowed to leave the country safely, as was Ubico himself. The military junta was replaced by another three-person junta consisting of Árbenz, Arana, and an upper-class youth named Jorge Toriello, who had played a significant role in the protests. Although Arana had come to the military conspiracy relatively late, his defection had brought the powerful Guardia de Honor (Honor Guard) over to the revolutionaries, and for this crucial role he was rewarded with a place on the junta. The junta promised free and open elections to the presidency and the congress, as well as for a constituent assembly.\n\nThe resignation of Ponce Vaides and the creation of the junta has been considered by scholars to be the beginning of the Guatemalan Revolution. However, the revolutionary junta did not immediately threaten the interests of the landed elite. Two days after Ponce Vaides' resignation, a violent protest erupted at Patzicía, a small Indian hamlet. The junta responded with swift brutality, silencing the protest. The dead civilians included women and children.\n\nJuan José Arévalo Bermejo was born into a middle-class family in 1904. He became a primary school teacher for a brief while, and then earned a scholarship to a university in Argentina, where he earned a doctorate in the philosophy of education. He returned to Guatemala in 1934, and sought a position in the Ministry of Education. However, he was denied the position he wished for, and felt uncomfortable under the dictatorship of Ubico. He left the country and held a faculty position in Argentina until 1944, when he returned to Guatemala. In July 1944 the \"Renovación Nacional,\" the teachers' party, had been formed, and Arévalo was named its candidate. In an unexpected surge of support, his candidacy was endorsed by many of the leading organizations among the protesters, including the student federation. His lack of connection to the dictatorship and his academic background both worked in his favor among the students and teachers. At the same time, the fact that he had chosen to go into exile in conservative Argentina rather than revolutionary Mexico reassured landowners worried about socialist or communist reform.\n\nThe subsequent elections took place in December 1944, and were broadly considered free and fair, although only literate men were given the vote. Unlike in similar historical situations, none of the junta members stood for election. Arévalo's closest challenger was Adrián Recinos, whose campaign included a number of individuals identified with the Ubico regime. The ballots were tallied on 19 December 1944, and Arévalo won in a landslide, receiving more than four times as many ballots as the other candidates combined.\n\nArévalo took office on 15 March 1945, inheriting a country with numerous social and economic issues. Despite Ubico's policy of using unpaid labor to build public roads, internal transport was severely inadequate. 70% of the population was illiterate, and malnutrition and poor health were widespread. The wealthiest 2% of landowners owned nearly three quarters of agricultural land, and as a result less than 1% was cultivated. The indigenous peasants either had no land, or had far too little to sustain themselves. Three quarters of the labor force were in agriculture, and industry was essentially nonexistent.\n\nArévalo identified his ideology as \"spiritual socialism.\" He held the belief that the only way to alleviate the backwardness of most Guatemalans was through a paternalistic government. He was strongly opposed to classical Marxism, and believed in a capitalist society that was regulated to ensure that its benefits went to the entire population. Arévalo's ideology was reflected in the new constitution that the Guatemalan assembly ratified soon after his inauguration, which was one of the most progressive in Latin America. It mandated suffrage for all but illiterate women, a decentralization of power, and provisions for a multiparty system. Communist parties were, however, forbidden. The constitution and Arévalo's socialist ideology became the basis for much of the reform enacted under Arévalo and (later) Jacobo Árbenz. Although the US government would later portray the ideology of the revolution as radical communist, it did not in fact represent a major shift leftward, and was staunchly anti-communist. Arévalo's economic vision for the country was centered around private enterprise.\n\nThe revolution in 1944 left many of the biggest opponents of organized labor unaffected, such as the landed elite and the United Fruit Company. The revolution, and election of Arévalo, nonetheless marked a significant shift in the fortunes of labor unions. The protests of 1944 strengthened the labor movement to the point where Ponce Vaides stopped enforcing the repressive vagrancy law, which was abolished in the 1945 constitution. On 1 May 1945, Arévalo made a speech celebrating organized labor, to a tremendously positive reception. The freedom of press guaranteed in the new constitution also drew much attention to the brutal working conditions in Guatemala City. From the beginning, the new unions that were formed fell into two camps, those that were communist and those that were not. The repressive policies of the Ubico government had driven both factions underground, but they re-emerged after the revolution.\n\nThe communist movement was also strengthened by the release of those of its leaders who had been imprisoned by Ubico. Among them were Miguel Mármol, Víctor Manuel Gutiérrez, and Graciela García, the latter unusual for being a woman in a movement that women were discouraged from participating in. The communists began to organize in the capital, and established a school for workers, known as the \"Escuela Claridad,\" or the Clarity School, which taught reading, writing, and also helped organize unions. Six months after the school was established, President Arévalo closed the school down, and deported all the leaders of the movement who were not Guatemalan. However, the communist movement survived, mostly by its dominance of the teacher's union.\n\nArévalo's response toward the non-communist unions was mixed. In 1945, he criminalized all rural labor unions in workplaces with fewer than 500 workers, which included most plantations. One of the few unions big enough to survive this law was of the banana workers employed by the UFC. In 1946 this union organized a strike, which provoked Arévalo into outlawing all strikes until a new labor code was passed. This led to efforts on the part of employers to stall the labor code, as well as to exploit workers as far as possible before it was passed. The unions were also damaged when the US government persuaded the American Federation of Labor to found the Organización Regional Internacional del Trabajo (ORIT), a union that took a virulently anti-communist stance.\n\nDespite the powerful opposition, by 1947 the labor unions had managed to organize enough support to force the congress to pass a new labor code. This law was revolutionary in many ways; it forbade discrimination in salary levels on the basis of \"age, race, sex, nationality, religious beliefs, or political affiliation.\" It created a set of health and safety standards in the workplace, and standardized an eight-hour working day and a 45-hour working week, although the congress succumbed to pressure from the plantation lobby and exempted plantations from this provision. The code also required plantation owners to construct primary schools for the children of their workers, and expressed a general commitment to \"dignifying\" the position of workers. Although many of these provisions were never enforced, the creation of administrative mechanisms for this law in 1948 allowed several of its provisions to be systematically enforced. The law as a whole had a huge positive impact on worker rights in the country, including raising the average wages by a factor of three or more.\n\nThe Arévalo government attempted to support democratic ideals abroad as well. One of Arévalo's first actions was to break diplomatic relations with the government of Spain under dictator Francisco Franco. At two inter-American conferences in the year after his election, Arévalo recommended that the republics in Latin America not recognize and support authoritarian regimes. This initiative was defeated by the dictatorships supported by the United States, such as the Somoza regime in Nicaragua. In response, Arévalo broke off diplomatic ties with the Nicaraguan government and with the government of Rafael Trujillo in the Dominican Republic. Frustrated by the lack of results from working with the other Latin American governments, Arévalo began to support the Caribbean Legion, which sought to replace dictatorships with democracies across Latin America, by force if necessary. This led to the administration being labelled as communist by the dictatorial governments in the region.\n\nThe Arévalo government also floated the idea of a Central American Federation, as being the only way that a democratic government could survive in the region. He approached several leaders of democratic Central American countries, but was rejected by all except Castañeda Castro, the president of El Salvador. The two leaders began talks to build a union, and set up several commissions to look into the issue. In late 1945 they announced the formation of the union, but the formalization of the process got delayed by internal troubles in both countries, and in 1948 the Castro government was toppled in a military coup led by Óscar Osorio.\n\nAs the highest-ranking military officer in the October Revolution, Francisco Arana had led the three-man junta that formed the interim government after the coup. He was opposed to handing over power to a civilian government, first seeking to postpone the 1944 election, and then to annul it. In return for allowing Arévalo to become president, Arana was granted the newly created position of \"chief of the armed forces,\" ranked above the minister of defense. The position had a six-year term, and controlled all military appointments. In December 1945, Arévalo was involved in a motoring accident which left him seriously injured. Fearing a military coup, the leaders of the Revolutionary Action Party (PAR) made a pact with Arana, in which the party agreed to support his candidacy in the 1950 elections in return for a promise to refrain from a coup.\n\nArana's support began to be solicited by the landed elite, who felt threatened by Arévalo's reforms. Arana, who was not initially inclined to get involved with politics, began to make occasional statements against the government. In the 1948 parliamentary election, he backed a number of opposition candidates, all of whom were defeated. By 1949 the National Renovation Party and the PAR were both openly hostile to Arana, while a small fragment of the Popular Liberation Front split off to support him. The leftist parties decided to back Árbenz instead, as they believed that only a military officer could defeat Arana.\n\nOn 16 July 1949, Arana delivered an ultimatum to Arévalo, demanding the expulsion of all of Árbenz's supporters from the cabinet and the military; he threatened a coup if his demands were not met. Arévalo informed Árbenz and other progressive leaders of the ultimatum, who all agreed that Arana should be exiled. Two days later, Arévalo and Arana had another meeting; on the way back, Arana's convoy was intercepted by a small force led by Árbenz. A shootout ensued, killing three men, including Arana. Arana's supporters in the military rose up in revolt, but they were leaderless, and by the next day the rebels asked for negotiations. The coup attempt left approximately 150 dead and 200 wounded. Many of Arana's supporters, including Carlos Castillo Armas, were exiled. The details of the incident were not made public.\n\nÁrbenz's role as defense minister had already made him a strong candidate for the presidency, and his firm support of the government during the 1949 uprising further increased his prestige. In 1950, the economically moderate Partido de Integridad Nacional (PIN) announced that Árbenz would be its presidential candidate in the upcoming election. This announcement was quickly followed by endorsements from most parties on the left, including the influential PAR, as well as from labor unions. Árbenz had only a couple of significant challengers in the election, in a field of ten candidates. One of these was Jorge García Granados, who was supported by some members of the upper-middle class who felt the revolution had gone too far. Another was Miguel Ydígoras Fuentes, who had been a general under Ubico, and who had the support of the hardline opponents of the revolution. During his campaign, Árbenz promised to continue and expand the reforms begun under Arévalo. The election was held on 15 November 1950, and Árbenz won more than 60% of the vote, in elections that were free and fair with the exception of the disenfranchisement of illiterate female voters. Árbenz was inaugurated as president on 15 March 1951.\n\nÁrbenz was born in 1913 into a middle-class family of Swiss heritage. In 1935 he had graduated from the Escuela Politécnica, Guatemala's national military academy, with excellent grades, and had subsequently became an officer in the Guatemalan army under Ubico. As an officer, Árbenz himself had been required to escort chain-gangs of prisoners. This process had radicalized him, and he had begun to form links to the labor movement. In 1938 he had met and married María Villanova, who was also interested in social reform, and who became a significant influence on him and a national figure in her own right. Another strong influence on him was José Manuel Fortuny, a well-known Guatemalan communist, who was one of his main advisers during his government. In 1944, disgusted with Ubico's authoritarian regime, he and his fellow officers had begun plotting against the government. When Ubico resigned in 1944, Árbenz had witnessed Ponce Vaides intimidate the congress into naming him president. Highly offended by this, Árbenz plotted against Ponce Vaides, and was one of the military leaders of the coup that toppled him, in addition to having been one of the few officers in the revolution who had formed and maintained connections to the popular civilian movement.\n\nThe biggest component of Árbenz's project of modernization was his agrarian reform bill. Árbenz drafted the bill himself with the help of advisers that included some leaders of the communist party as well as non-communist economists. He also sought advice from numerous economists from across Latin America. The bill was passed by the National Assembly on 17 June 1952, and the program went into effect immediately. The focus of the program was on transferring uncultivated land from large landowners to their poverty stricken laborers, who would then be able to begin a viable farm of their own. Árbenz was also motivated to pass the bill because he needed to generate capital for his public infrastructure projects within the country. At the behest of the United States, the World Bank had refused to grant Guatemala a loan in 1951, which made the shortage of capital more acute.\n\nThe official title of the agrarian reform bill was Decree 900. It expropriated all uncultivated land from landholdings that were larger than . If the estates were between and in size, uncultivated land was expropriated only if less than two-thirds of it was in use. The owners were compensated with government bonds, the value of which was equal to that of the land expropriated. The value of the land itself was the value that the owners had declared in their tax returns in 1952. The redistribution was organized by local committees that included representatives from the landowners, the laborers, and the government. Of the nearly 350,000 private land-holdings, only 1710 were affected by expropriation. The law itself was cast in a moderate capitalist framework; however, it was implemented with great speed, which resulted in occasional arbitrary land seizures. There was also some violence, directed at land-owners, as well as at peasants that had minor landholdings of their own.\n\nBy June 1954, 1.4 million acres of land had been expropriated and distributed. Approximately 500,000 individuals, or one-sixth of the population, had received land by this point. The decree also included provision of financial credit to the people who received the land. The National Agrarian Bank (\"Banco Nacional Agrario\", or BNA) was created on 7 July 1953, and by June 1954 it had disbursed more than $9 million in small loans. 53,829 applicants received an average of 225 US dollars, which was twice as much as the Guatemalan per capita income. The BNA developed a reputation for being a highly efficient government bureaucracy, and the United States government, Árbenz's biggest detractor, did not have anything negative to say about it.\nThe loans had a high repayment rate, and of the $3,371,185 handed out between March and November 1953, $3,049,092 had been repaid by June 1954. The law also included provisions for nationalization of roads that passed through redistributed land, which greatly increased the connectivity of rural communities.\n\nContrary to the predictions made by the detractors of the government, the law resulted in a slight increase in Guatemalan agricultural productivity, and to an increase in cultivated area. Purchases of farm machinery also increased. Overall, the law resulted in a significant improvement in living standards for many thousands of peasant families, the majority of whom were indigenous people. Historian Piero Gleijeses stated that the injustices corrected by the law were far greater than the injustice of the relatively few arbitrary land seizures. Historian Greg Grandin stated that the law was flawed in many respects; among other things, it was too cautious and deferential to the planters, and it created communal divisions among peasants. Nonetheless, it represented a fundamental power shift in favor of those that had been marginalized before then.\n\nThe United Fruit Company had been formed in 1899 by the merger of two large American corporations. The new company had major holdings of land and railroads across Central America, which it used to support its business of exporting bananas. In 1900 it was already the world's largest exporter of bananas. By 1930 it had an operating capital of 215 million US dollars, and had been the largest landowner and employer in Guatemala for several years. Under Manuel Estrada Cabrera and other Guatemalan presidents, the company obtained a series of concessions in the country that allowed it to massively expand its business. These concessions frequently came at the cost of tax revenue for the Guatemalan government. The company supported Jorge Ubico in the leadership struggle that occurred from 1930 to 1932, and upon assuming power, Ubico expressed willingness to create a new contract with it. This new contract was immensely favorable to the company. It included a 99-year lease to massive tracts of land, exemptions from virtually all taxes, and a guarantee that no other company would receive any competing contract. Under Ubico, the company paid virtually no taxes, which hurt the Guatemalan government's ability to deal with the effects of the Great Depression. Ubico asked the company to pay its workers only 50 cents a day, to prevent other workers from demanding higher wages. The company also virtually owned Puerto Barrios, Guatemala's only port to the Atlantic ocean, allowing the company to make profits from the flow of goods through the port. By 1950, the company's annual profits were 65 million US dollars, twice the revenue of the Guatemalan government.\n\nDue to its long association with Ubico's government, the United Fruit Company (UFC) was seen as an impediment to progress by Guatemalan revolutionaries after 1944. This image was worsened by the company's discriminatory policies towards its colored workers. Thanks to its position as the country's largest landowner and employer, the reforms of Arévalo's government affected the UFC more than other companies. Among other things, the labor code passed by the government allowed its workers to strike when their demands for higher wages and job security were not met. The company saw itself as being specifically targeted by the reforms, and refused to negotiate with the numerous sets of strikers, despite frequently being in violation of the new laws. The company's labor troubles were compounded in 1952 when Jacobo Árbenz passed Decree 900, the agrarian reform law. Of the that the company owned, 15% were being cultivated; the rest of the land, which was idle, came under the scope of the agrarian reform law.\n\nThe United Fruit Company responded with intensive lobbying of members of the United States government, leading many US congressmen and senators to criticize the Guatemalan government for not protecting the interests of the company. The Guatemalan government responded by saying that the company was the main obstacle to progress in the country. American historians observed that \"To the Guatemalans it appeared that their country was being mercilessly exploited by foreign interests which took huge profits without making any contributions to the nation's welfare.\" In 1953, of uncultivated land was expropriated by the government, which offered the company compensation at the rate of 2.99 US dollars to the acre, twice what the company had paid when it bought the property. More expropriation occurred soon after, bringing the total to over ; the government offered compensation to the company at the rate at which the UFC had valued its own property for tax purposes. This resulted in further lobbying in Washington, particularly through Secretary of State John Foster Dulles, who had close ties to the company. The company had begun a public relations campaign to discredit the Guatemalan government; it hired public relations expert Edward Bernays, who ran a concerted effort to portray the company as the victim of the Guatemalan government for several years. The company stepped up its efforts after Dwight Eisenhower had been elected in 1952. These included commissioning a research study on Guatemala from a firm known to be hawkish, which produced a 235-page report that was highly critical of the Guatemalan government. Historians have stated that the report was full of \"exaggerations, scurrilous descriptions and bizarre historical theories.\" The report nonetheless had a significant impact on the Congressmen that it was sent to. Overall, the company spent over a half-million dollars to influence both lawmakers and members of the public in the US that the Guatemalan government needed to be overthrown.\n\nIn addition to the lobbying of the United Fruit Company, several other factors also led the United States to launch the coup that toppled Árbenz in 1954. During the years of the Guatemalan Revolution, military coups occurred in several other Central American countries that brought firmly anti-communist governments to power. Army officer Major Oscar Osorio won staged elections in El Salvador in 1950, Cuban dictator Fulgencio Batista took power in 1952. Honduras, where the land-holdings of the United Fruit Company were the most extensive, had been ruled by an anti-communist government sympathetic to the United States since 1932. These developments created tension between the other governments and Árbenz, which was exacerbated by Arévalo's support for the Caribbean Legion. This support also worried the United States and the newly formed Central Intelligence Agency. According to US historian Richard Immerman, during the beginning of the Cold War, the US and the CIA tended to assume that everybody who opposed it was a communist. Thus, despite Arévalo's ban of the communist party, important figures in the US government were already predisposed to believe that the revolutionary government had been infiltrated by communists, and was a danger to the US. During the years of the revolution, several reports and memoranda were circulated amongst US government agencies that furthered this belief.\n\nAlthough the administration of Harry Truman had become convinced that the Guatemalan government had been penetrated by communists, it relied on purely diplomatic and economic means to try and reduce the communist influence, at least until the end of its term. The United States had refused to sell arms to the Guatemalan government after 1944; in 1951 it began to block weapons purchases by Guatemala from other countries. In 1952 Truman became sufficiently convinced of the threat posed by Árbenz to start planning a covert overthrow, titled Operation PBFORTUNE. The plan had originally been suggested by the US supported dictator of Nicaragua, Anastasio Somoza García, who said that if he were given weapons, he could overthrow the Guatemalan government. Truman gave the CIA permission to go ahead with the plan, without informing the state department. The CIA placed a shipment of weapons on a vessel owned by the United Fruit Company, and the operation was paid for by Rafael Trujillo and Marcos Pérez Jiménez, the right-wing anti-communist dictators of the Dominican Republic and Venezuela, respectively. The operation was to be led by Carlos Castillo Armas. However, the US state department discovered the conspiracy, and secretary of state Dean Acheson persuaded Truman to abort the plan.\n\nIn November 1952, Dwight Eisenhower was elected president of the US. Eisenhower's campaign had included a pledge for a more active anti-communist policy. Several figures in his administration, including Secretary of State John Foster Dulles and his brother and CIA director Allen Dulles had close ties to the United Fruit Company. Both of these factors made Eisenhower predisposed to supporting the overthrow of Árbenz. \n\nThe CIA operation to overthrow Jacobo Árbenz, code-named Operation PBSUCCESS, was authorized by Eisenhower in August 1953. The operation was granted a budget of 2.7 million dollars for \"psychological warfare and political action.\" The total budget has been estimated at between 5 and 7 million dollars, and the planning employed over 100 CIA agents. The CIA planning included drawing up lists of people within Árbenz's government to be assassinated if the coup were to be carried out. Manuals of assassination techniques were compiled, and lists were also made of people whom the junta would dispose of. After considering several candidates to lead the coup, including Miguel Ydígoras Fuentes, the CIA settled on Carlos Castillo Armas. The US state department also embarked on a campaign to ensure that other countries would not sympathize with the Guatemalan government, by linking it to communism and the Soviet Union. By 1954 Árbenz had become desperate for weapons, and decided to acquire them secretly from Czechoslovakia, which would have been the first time that a Soviet bloc country shipped weapons to the Americas. The shipment of these weapons acted as the final spur for the CIA to launch its coup.\n\nOn 18 June 1954, Castillo Armas led a convoy of trucks carrying 480 men across the border from Honduras into Guatemala. The weapons had come from the CIA, which had also trained the men in camps in Nicaragua and Honduras. Since his army was badly outnumbered by the Guatemalan army, the CIA plan required Castillo Armas to camp within the Guatemalan border, while it mounted a psychological campaign to convince the Guatemalan people and government that Armas' victory was a \"fait accompli\". This campaign included using Catholic priests to give anti-communist sermons, strafing several towns using CIA aircraft, and placing a naval blockade around the country. It also involved dropping leaflets by airplane through the country, and carrying out a radio broadcast entitled \"The Voice of Liberation\" which announced that Guatemalan exiles led by Castillo Armas were shortly about to liberate the country.\n\nThe military force led by Castillo Armas attempted to make forays towards the towns of Zacapa and Puerto Barrios; however, these were beaten back by the Guatemalan army. The propaganda broadcast by the CIA had far more effect; it succeeded in leading a Guatemalan pilot to defect, which led to Árbenz grounding the entire air force, fearing its defection. The CIA also used its planes, flown by American pilots, to bomb Guatemalan towns for psychological effect. When the old planes used by the invasion force were found to be inadequate, the CIA persuaded Eisenhower to authorize the use of two additional planes. Guatemala made an appeal to the United Nations, but the US vetoed an investigation into the incident by the Security Council, stating that it was an internal matter in Guatemala. On 25 June, a CIA plane bombed Guatemala City, destroying the government's main oil reserves. Frightened by this, Árbenz ordered the army to distribute weapons to local peasants and workers. The army refused to do this, instead demanding that Árbenz either resign or come to terms with Castillo Armas.\n\nKnowing that he could not fight on without the support of the army, Jacobo Árbenz resigned on 27 June 1954, handing over power to Colonel Carlos Enrique Diaz. US ambassador John Peurifoy then mediated negotiations held in El Salvador between the army leadership and Castillo Armas which led to Armas being included in the ruling military junta on 7 July 1954, and was named provisional president a few days later. The US recognized the new government on 13 July. Elections were held in early October, from which all political parties were barred from participating, and Castillo Armas was the only candidate, winning the election with 99% of the vote. Among the outcomes of the meeting in El Salvador was a planned new constitution, which would roll back most of the progressive reform brought by the revolution.\n\nFollowing the coup, hundreds of peasant leaders were rounded up and executed. Historian Greg Grandin has stated that \"There is general consensus today among academics and Guatemalan intellectuals that 1954 signaled the beginning of what would become the most repressive state in the hemisphere—a state responsible for the torture and murder of two hundred thousand of its citizens.\" Following the coup and the establishment of the military dictatorship, a series of leftist insurgencies began in the countryside, frequently with a large degree of popular support, which triggered the Guatemalan Civil War that lasted until 1996. The largest of these movements was led by the Guerrilla Army of the Poor, which at its largest point had 270,000 members. 200,000 civilians were killed in the war, and numerous human rights violations committed, including massacres of civilian populations, rape, aerial bombardment, and forced disappearances. Historians estimate that 93% of these violations were committed by the United States-backed military, which included a genocidal scorched-earth campaign against the indigenous Maya population in the 1980s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2843767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2843767", "title": "History of Bulgaria since 1989", "text": "History of Bulgaria since 1989\n\nThe History of Bulgaria since 1989 is the period of Bulgarian history that begins after the fall of socialism and the transition to capitalism. \n\nThe reforms towards liberalization, both social, political and economic in the Eastern Bloc started with Mikhail Gorbachev's reform program in the Soviet Union which was felt in Bulgaria in the late 1980s. In fact, the release of tightening started with the end of the Stalinist era and continued slowly to the point that many previously forbidden literary texts were translated, the same was relevant for Hollywood movies, etc., stores appeared with Western products that had elements of advertisement (advertisement of products was generally unknown and not used in the Eastern Bloc since everything was accessible and the same to all), these new features of the late communist years acknowledged the gradual breaking of the Iron Curtain for the Comecon people. This, together with the policies of Gorbachev, led to more freedom and expectations for democracy among people.\n\nIn November 1989, demonstrations on ecological issues were staged in Sofia, and these soon broadened into a general campaign for political reform. That Communists generally did not break the demonstrations was a sign of a possible change that would come. In fact communist politicians reacted by eventually voting for the removal of Todor Zhivkov as a communist party and country head and replacing him with Petar Mladenov, but this gained them only a short respite in power. In February 1990 the Communist Party, forced by street protests gave up its claim on power and in June 1990 the first free elections since 1931 were held, won by the Bulgarian Socialist Party (the new name of the Communist Party). In July 1991 a new Constitution was adopted, which regulates a representative elected President and a Prime Minister and Cabinet.\n\nLike the other post-socialist regimes in eastern Europe, Bulgaria found the transition to capitalism rather painful and not easy as expected. The anti-Communist Union of Democratic Forces (in Bulgarian: \"СДС, SDS\") took office between 1991 and 1992 to carry through the privatization of agricultural land, properties and industry issuing shares in government enterprises to all citizens, but these were accompanied by massive unemployment as industries were no longer tightened to the broken Comecon and failed in competition of the global market without the participation of Bulgaria to new regional or world trade organizations, at the same time Bulgaria's industry showed to be backward which was amendable but in the hurry of political changes neither government, nor people were ready for industrial modernization. In fact the disbandment of former State security that was tightened to the Communist party (Bulgarian: \"ДС, DS\") although brought relief to many Bulgarian people previously feared to speak or express other than communist views, at the same time boosted criminality never seen before in Bulgaria. The police were not ready to care about and chase the criminality which was before kept low with the fearful methods of DS. This led to mass stealing of capital, machinery, materials and even furniture from the industry and also institutions. Referring to industry this led to soon failing to work of many factories, etcetera\n\nThe Socialists (former Communists) presented their political visions as the defenders of the poor against the excesses of the free market. Reaction against economic reforms appeared because reforms left many unemployed (unemployment was almost not existing before in Bulgaria) and many towns literally was left to drop economically just in months, this allowed Zhan Videnov of the Bulgarian Socialist Party to win the 1994 parliamentary elections. Videnov was very young when he stepped in the PM post and his inability to show political strength and his incompetence was soon acknowledged by people surrounding him who took advantage of it for own purposes and personal enrichment. This incompetence and the misguided policies of the Socialist government in all exacerbated the economic conditions. The government was clearly unsupported by Western countries and thus Bulgarian foreign policy seriously suffered, and in 1996 the economy fell into hyperinflation and many banks went bankrupt. In the presidential elections of that year the SDS's Petar Stoyanov was elected. In 1997 the BSP government collapsed after a month of nationwide protests and government was appointed by the President Stoyanov which coped to calm the economic situation. Later the democratic party of SDS came to power.\n\nThe new Democratic government headed by Ivan Kostov enjoyed strong support and moved the Bulgarian economy ahead, but allegations of corruption and inability to cope with some of the serious problems in the country caused frustration. The electorate became to some extent dissatisfied with both parties – BSP and SDS. At that point Stoyanov, who still held some good positions and had public approval, took part in presidential elections seeking a second mandate, but he scandalously failed with a blunder on TV and lost support, and the elections too. The newly elected president, former BSP leader Georgi Parvanov, was not very well known to the public although he was in politics since the early 1990s, and was well received for his wise political behavior. Although a BSP candidate, he was rather perceived as an independent figure and he also always stated to be president to all Bulgarians without any political reference. At that point with the already dissatisfaction with both BSP and SDS, people were looking for new alternatives and new politicians.\n\nIn 2001, Simeon Saxe-Coburg-Gotha (Bulgarian: Симеон Сакскобурготски, Simeon Sakskoburgotski), son of Tsar Boris III of Bulgaria, who had fled from socialist Bulgaria as a nine-year-old boy in 1946, became Prime Minister of Bulgaria. Several years prior to that, in 1996, he had visited Bulgaria with his family of two princes and a princess and it was then when he announced he would soon come back to his homeland to form a new political party. Several years later, Sakskoburggotski formed the National Movement Simeon II (NDSV) and swept away both major parties in the elections of June 2001 with a landslide victory. As Prime Minister, he followed a strong and strictly pro-western course, as a result of which Bulgaria joined NATO in 2004 and the European Union in 2007. Economic and political conditions visibly improved, although economic growth was not as high as expected and unemployment and emigration remained high. Problematic areas remained corruption, health care, organized crime (though scaled down), and higher education, which all need to be massively reformed.\n\nAt the next parliamentary elections NDSV didn't reach enough votes to form alone a government, in fact BSP gained the largest share of the votes, followed by NDSV. And because none of the parties had enough seats in Parliament to establish a government on its own after more than a month of negotiations initiated by President Parvanov for the forming of coalition government that was needed for the EU joining, a coalition was formed between BSP, NDSV and MRF (Movement for Rights and Freedoms). Although divided by deep ideological and political differences, the three parties were united by a major goal: accomplishing the reforms necessary for joining the European Union in 2007. But ineffective administration and high-level corruption remained serious problems that was limiting the entrance of foreign businesses and entrepreneurs in the country. Additionally, Sergei Stanishev's government was caught in his last months by the world financial crisis but denied its existence and refused to initiate steps for protecting Bulgarian economy from it for which he received wide disapproval.\n\nIn the parliamentary elections in 2009 the center-right party Citizens for European Development of Bulgaria (GERB) won, taking 117 seats in the 240-seats Parliament. The Socialists were a distant second, with 40 seats. NDSV coundn't take enough votes to enter Parliament. The new government of Boyko Borisov stated some serious intentions for educational changes for liberation of the system and ability of students to easily choose universities and most important placed the accent on fiscal discipline. In particular, the Ministry of Finance reduced the budget deficit following a policy of administrative reform and privatization. Subsidies to state-owned enterprises in the transport and energy sectors were cut. Deputy Prime Minister Simeon Djankov led a reform team that included the Minister of Infrastructure Rosen Plevneliev, the Minister of Economy Traycho Traykov and the Minister of Environment Nona Karadjova. The government fell on 20 February 2013 after multiple street protests, over strictly imposed austerity measures and sustained fiscal stability encouraged by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund during the recession, but also delayed government payments to private companies, and also wiretapping scandals involving the Minister of the Interior Tsvetan Tsvetanov.\n\nThe government of Plamen Oresharski was not well accepted, leading to yearlong protests, ultimately resulting in its downfall on July 23, 2014.\n\nBoyko Borisov returned to power after winning Bulgarian parliamentary election, 2014. Citizens for European Development of Bulgaria form a government with the Reformist Bloc, Patriotic Front (Bulgaria) and the Alternative for Bulgarian Revival. The government resigned after the Bulgarian presidential election, 2016 which were won by independent candidate General Rumen Radev supported by the Bulgarian Socialist Party.\n"}
{"id": "43629601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43629601", "title": "Joan Dillon (historic preservation activist)", "text": "Joan Dillon (historic preservation activist)\n\nJoan Kent Dillon (30 April 1925 – 18 January 2009) was a teacher, a nationally known historic preservation activist and an author.\n\nJoan Kent was born 30 April 1925 in Lafayette, Indiana, to Gladys and Richard Kent of Tuxedo Park, New York. She grew up in St. Louis, Missouri, spending summers at the family's summer home in Whalewalk Farm, Orleans, Massachusetts. She attended Wheeler School in Providence, Rhode Island but graduated from Mary Institute in St. Louis in 1943. Dillon earned a Bachelor of Arts from Smith College in 1947. Her husband-to-be, George Chaffee Dillon of Liberty, Missouri, had served in the Navy during the Second World War, rising to the rank of Lt. Commander, then receiving an MBA from Harvard Business School. They met in Cambridge and married on 11 September 1948. That same year the couple moved to Kansas City, Missouri where George went to work first for J. Bruening & Co. then Butler Manufacturing in 1949, eventually becoming president and chairman of the board. The Dillons had two daughters and a son. Joan Dillon went on to complete a Masters Degree in Medieval History at the University of Missouri in 1969 with a thesis on Medieval architecture. From 1962 to 1971 she taught Ancient and Medieval History at Sunset Hill School (now The Pembroke Hill School).\n\nThe Folly Theater is a historic theater in Kansas City, Missouri. It originally opened as the Standard Theater on 23 September 1900 and featured on the burlesque and vaudeville circuit. Business started declining in 1928 and the theater was closed between 1932 and 1941. The theater began showing adult movies in 1969 but continued to physically decline. The balcony had been closed by the fire marshall in 1964. The theater again closed in January 1974. The theater's then owners, Annbar Associates and Elk Realty of New York, announced that if a buyer could not be identified by the end of the year, the theater would be demolished to make way for a parking lot.\n\nA group of local historic preservation activists, including Dillon and William N. Deramus III, formed the nonprofit Performing Arts Foundation, to raise the money to purchase and restore the theater. The theater was offered for sale for $950,000. The Performing Arts Foundation raised $350,000 in contributions and through negotiation convinced Annbar Associates to offer the remaining $600,000 of the purchase price as a donation.\n\nFolly Theater was added to the in 1974.\n\nBut preventing the building from being demolished was just the beginning. The building was in a considerable state of disrepair. Most of the windows were broken. A chandelier had fallen onto the balcony. Pornographic magazines rotted in closets. Nineteen tones of pigeon dung would be removed from the building. Between 1974 and 1987 Dillon and the Performing Arts Foundation raised $5 million for the restoration of the theater, including a $1 million grant from the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The theater was reopened in 1981. A plaque was mounted on the stage recognizing Joan Dillon's work in saving the Folly Theater. A pair of plaster pigeons installed above the box office by architect Bob Berkebile are named Joan and George after the Dillons.\n\nHer work saving and restoring the Folly Theater made Dillon a nationally known historic preservation advocate. She became a board member of the League of Historic American Theaters from 1978-1981 and 1992-1998, the National Trust for Historic Preservation from 1980-1990, President Reagan's Committee on the Arts and Humanities from 1982-1990 and the Smithsonian National Board from 1989-1995. Her board and committee work required frequent travel to Washington, D.C.\n\nFor a number of years Dillon had been thinking about a book documenting America's nineteenth century historic theaters. Through her work on historic preservation, Dillon met architectural historian David Naylor. Naylor had already produced two books on movie theaters, \"American Picture Palaces: The Architecture of Fantasy\" (1981) and \"Great American Movie Theaters\" (1987), and during the years 1994-1996 the two worked together on Dillon's idea. They began by contacting one thousand five hundred theaters by telephone and postcard. They then sent a follow-up questionnaire to more than a thousand from the first list. The two then traveled extensively with one or both Dillon and Naylor eventual visiting two hundred and fifty theaters. Eventually the two arrived upon a list of forty theaters, arranged into seven broad categories, they deemed representative of the breadth of American nineteenth century theaters (see next section for detail on their list and categories). The record of their survey, \"American Theaters: Performance Halls of the Nineteenth Century\", was published in 1997.\n\nThroughout her life Dillon continued to spend summers in Cape Cod. In 1976 she bought a home in North Chatham, Massachusetts. Dillon continued her historic preservation activities in the Cape Cod region. She worked in Acquisitions for the Cape Cod Museum of Art from 2007-2009. In 2007 she published \"Barns of Cape Cod\" with her son, Kent C. Dillon and photographer Blandon Belushin. For the last ten years of her life she lived in Cape Cod permanently and it was in her home there that Joan Dillon died at the age of 83 of leukemia and cardiac arrest on 18 January 2009.\n\nAfter a brief historical essay, the bulk of the book consists of the section, \"A Revue of Nineteenth Century American Theaters.\" From the thousands of initially identified theaters, the forty that Dillon and Naylor selected as exemplary of nineteenth century theaters are the following.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nJoan Dillon donated her papers relating to the production of \"American Theaters\" to the University of Maryland, College Park in April 2003. They are available as the Joan Dillon papers in the State of Maryland and Historical Collections in the Special Collections at Hornbake Library.\n"}
{"id": "1289164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1289164", "title": "John Clyn", "text": "John Clyn\n\nJohn Clyn, O.F.M. (c. 1286 – c. 1349), of the Friars Minor, Kilkenny, was a 14th-century Irish friar and chronicler who lived at the time of the Black Death.\n\nClyn was probably born in Leinster some years prior to 1300, possibly at Baile a Clinn/Clyn's town/Clintstown, in the parish of Conahy, some six and a half miles north-west of Kilkenny. The surname Clyn is found in Somerset and Bristol, which may have been where his Anglo-Norman ancestors originated.\n\nBishop James Ussher stated, possibly in error, that Clyn was a doctor of the Franciscan Order. This statement may be a presumption as it has no supporting evidence. Clyn was well educated, though just where he received his education is unknown. He may have attended the university at Dublin, while Oxford and Cambridge remain more distant possibilities.\n\nClyn is recorded as the Guardian of the friary of Carrick in 1336; Bernadette Williams believes that he would have been about fifty at that time (\"around the same age as his hero Fulk de la Freigne\"), as someone mature would have been needed to hold that post.\n\nClyn may have attended the General Chapter of the Friars Minor at Marseilles in 1346. At some point between 1336 and 1348 he moved to Kilkenny.\n\nJohn Clyn wrote a diary, or journal, about the Black Death, which has become a key primary source on the plague. He left blank pages for those who wanted to \"finish the work.\"\n\nHe was still alive after 17 June 1349, his last entry in his annals being a eulogy for Fulk de la Freigne. It is unknown whether Clyn perished from the disease. Though the Black Death persisted in Ireland until 1350, Clyn may have survived it. If this is the case, he may have ceased writing \" ... because of the death of his friend, and perhaps patron, Fulk de la Freigne.\"\n\nIn an effort to identify Clyn's purpose in writing his annals, Bernadette Williams states:\n\"They are not a house chronicle, a town chronicle or a political history. ...the difference between a city and county annalist is quite evident; Clyn was not a member of the burgage population of Kilkenny but a man of the countryside. ... The reality is that Clyn was writing a military history of the geographical area of Kilkenny and Tipperary ... his audience was either the military men of that area or more specifically a military family such as the de la Freignes.\"\n\nIndeed, the latter family are mentioned fulsomly in his annals.\n\nAs a person \"from a military and chivalric background ... he displayed an acceptance of the military situation on the ground\" but abhorred \"treachery and unprovoked violence.\"\n\nClyn would be unknown as the author had he not identified himself in his entry on the Black Death.\n\nIn 2007 an edition of the annals of Friar Clyn was translated into English by Dr. Bernadette Williams.\n\n\"So that notable deeds should not perish with time, and be lost from the memory of future generations, I, seeing these many ills, and that the whole world encompassed by evil, waiting among the dead for death to come, have committed to writing what I have truly heard and examined; and so that the writing does not perish with the writer, or the work fail with the workman, I leave parchment for continuing the work, in case anyone should still be alive in the future and any son of Adam can escape this pestilence and continue the work thus begun.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55559477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55559477", "title": "John W. Chaffee", "text": "John W. Chaffee\n\nJohn William Chaffee (born 1948) is an American historian specializing in the history of China especially the Song dynasty. He is currently Distinguished Service Professor of History and Asian and Asian American Studies at Binghamton University.\n\nHe also edited one volume of \"The Cambridge History of China\" (with Denis Twitchett).\n"}
{"id": "9690744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9690744", "title": "Johnson South Reef Skirmish", "text": "Johnson South Reef Skirmish\n\nThe Johnson South Reef Skirmish (; , lit: \"Spratly Islands naval battle\", or , lit: \"Johnson South Reef naval battle\") was an altercation that took place on 14 March 1988 between Chinese and Vietnamese forces over who would annex the Johnson South Reef in the Union Banks region of the Spratly Islands in the South China Sea.\n\nThe 14th UNESCO Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) agreed that China would establish five observation posts for worldwide ocean survey, including one in the Spratly Islands, and they commissioned China to build an observation post there in March 1987. The Delegate of the People's Republic of China (PRC) spoke highly of GLOSS (Global Sea Level Observing System) during the meeting of the UNESCO IOC in Paris, but he noted what the PRC considered to be a few mistakes in the text of Document IOC/INF-663; for example, \"Taiwan\" is listed as a \"country\" in relevant tables contained in the document.\nThe scientists from the GLOSS did not know that the PRC claims that Taiwan is not a separate country; nor did they know about the territorial disputes in the South China Sea. They agreed that China would install tide gauges on its coasts in the East China Sea, and on what the PRC calls its Nansha Islands in the South China Sea. The scientists did not know that Taiwan occupied one of the Spratly Islands, but (despite its territorial claims), at that time China occupied none. After numerous surveys and patrols, in April 1987 China chose Fiery Cross Reef as the ideal (from their point of view) location for the observation post, because the unoccupied reef was remote from other settlements, and it was large enough for the observation post. On the other hand, Johnson South Reef in the Union Banks sunken atoll, (150 km east of Fiery Cross Reef), is close to the Vietnamese inhabited Sin Cowe Island (also in the Union Banks), and it is also within the Philippine claimed 200 nautical mile Economic Exclusion Zone; in other words, Johnson South Reef is in a high profile and highly disputed area.\nIn January and February 1988, Vietnamese forces began establishing a presence at surrounding reefs, including Collins Reef and Lansdowne Reef in the Union Banks, in order to monitor Chinese activity. This led to a series of confrontations.\n\nOn 13 March, the frigate \"Nanchong\" detected People's Army of Vietnam (PAVN) armed naval transport \"HQ-604\" heading toward Johnson South Reef, transport \"HQ-605\" heading toward Lansdowne Reef, and landing craft \"HQ-505\" heading toward Collins Reef in a simultaneous three-pronged intrusion upon the disputed reefs.\n\nAt approximately 07:30 on Johnson South Reef, Vietnamese troops attempted to erect the Vietnamese flag on the reef. It was reported that PAVN Corporal Nguyen Van Lanh and PAVN Sub Lieutenant Tran Van Phuong argued over the flag raising with People's Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) sailor Du Xianghou, which led to a pitched battle between the opposing forces on the reef. In response, Vietnamese forces, with naval transport \"HQ-604\" in support, opened fire. PLAN forces and the frigate \"Nanchong\" counter-attacked at 08:47 hours. Transport \"HQ-604\" was set ablaze and sunk.\n\nAt 09:15 hours, the frigate \"Xiangtan\" arrived at Lansdowne Reef and found that nine Vietnamese marines from transport \"HQ-605\" had already landed. The frigate \"Xiangtan\" immediately hailed the Vietnamese and demanded they withdraw from the reef. Instead, the Vietnamese opened fire. \"HQ-605\" was damaged heavily and finally sunk by the Chinese. The PLAN filmed the skirmish and produced a propaganda documentary called \"314\" meaning \"March 14\".\n\nIn January 1988, China sent a group of ships from Hainan to the southern part of the South China Sea. This included four ships, including three frigates, despatched to the north-west of the Spratly Islands. The four ships then began provoking and harassing the Vietnamese ships around Tizard Bank and the London Reefs. Vietnam believed this battle group intended to create a reason to \"occupy the Spratly Islands in a preventive counterstrike\".\n\nIn response, two transport ships from the Vietnamese Navy's 125th Naval Transport Brigade, \"HQ-604\" and \"HQ-505\", were mobilized. They carried nearly 100 army officers and men to Johnson South Reef (Đá Gạc Ma), Collins Reef (Đá Cô Lin), and Lansdowne Reef (Đá Len Đao) in the Spratly Islands. On 14 March 1988, as the soldiers from \"HQ-604\" were moving construction materials to Johnson South Reef, the four Chinese ships arrived. The three Chinese frigates approached the reef:\nCommander Tran Duc Thong ordered Second Lieutenant Tran Van Phuong and two men, Nguyen Van Tu and Nguyen Van Lanh, to rush to the reef in a small boat and the Vietnamese flag that had been planted there the previous day. The Chinese landed armed soldiers on the reef, and the PLAN frigates opened fire on the Vietnamese ships. Both the HQ-604 armed transport and HQ-605 armed transport were sunk. The HQ-505 armed transport was ordered to run aground on Collins reef to prevent the Chinese from taking it.\n\nVietnamese soldiers, most of them unarmed, formed a circle on the reef to protect the Vietnamese flag. The Chinese attacked, and the Vietnamese soldiers resisted as best they could. A skirmish ensued in which the Chinese shot and bayoneted some Vietnamese soldiers to death, but the Chinese were unable to capture the flag. The Chinese finally retreated enabling PLAN frigates to open fire on the reef's defenders. When all of the Vietnamese had been killed or wounded, the Chinese occupied the reef and began building a bunker. 64 Vietnamese soldiers had been killed in the battle according to Vietnamese reports.\nVietnam also accused China of refusing to allow Vietnam's Red Cross ship to recover bodies and rescue wounded soldiers.\n\nCheng Tun-jen and Tien Hung-mao, two American professors, summarized the skirmish as follows: in late 1987, the PRC started deploying troops to some of the unoccupied reefs of the Spratly Islands. Soon after the PLA stormed the Johnson South Reef on 14 March 1988, a skirmish began between Vietnamese troops and PRC landing parties. Within a year, the PLA occupied and took over seven reefs and rocks in the Spratly Islands.\n\nKoo Min Gyo, Assistant Professor in the Department of Public Administration at Yonsei University, Seoul, South Korea, reported the battle's course was as follows: On 31 January 1988, two Vietnamese armed cargo ships approached the Fiery Cross Reef to get construction material to build structures signifying Vietnam's claim over the reef. However, the PLAN intercepted the ships and forced them away from the reef. On 17 February, a group of Chinese ships (a PLAN destroyer, escort, and transport ships) and several Vietnamese ships (a minesweeper and armed freighter) all attempted to land troops at Cuarteron Reef. Eventually the outgunned Vietnamese ships were forced to withdraw. On 13 and 14 March, a PLAN artillery frigate was surveying the Johnson Reef when it spotted three Vietnamese ships approaching its location. Both sides dispatched troops to occupy Johnson Reef. After shots were fired by ground forces on the reef, the Chinese and Vietnamese ships opened fire on each other.\n\nChina moved quickly to consolidate its presence. By the end of 1988, it had occupied six reefs and atolls in the Spratly Islands.\n\nOn 2 September 1991, China released the nine Johnson South Reef Skirmish Vietnamese prisoners.\n\nIn 1994, China had a similar confrontation by asserting its ownership of Mischief Reef, which was inside the claimed EEZ of the Philippines. However, the Philippines only made a political protest, since according to the Henry L. Stimson Center, the Philippine Navy decided to avoid direct confrontation. This was partly based on the Johnson South Reef Skirmish, in which the Chinese had killed Vietnamese troops even though the conflict took place near the Vietnamese-controlled area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8769614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8769614", "title": "Jurgis Baltrušaitis (son)", "text": "Jurgis Baltrušaitis (son)\n\nJurgis Baltrušaitis (May 7, 1903 – January 25, 1988) was a Lithuanian art historian, art critic and a founder of comparative art research. He was the son of the poet and diplomat Jurgis Baltrušaitis. Most of his works were written in French, although he always stressed his Lithuanian origin. After Lithuania was occupied by the USSR in 1945, he served as a diplomat in exile.\n\nBaltrušaitis was born in Moscow. During his childhood he was immersed in the intense cultural life of his parents. One of his first teachers was the Russian poet and writer Boris Pasternak.\n\nIn 1924 he moved to Paris and began theater studies at the Sorbonne under the guidance of Professor Henri Focillon. Under his influence Baltrušaitis chose to study the history of art. He went on to do research in Armenia, Georgia, Spain, Italy, and Germany, receiving a doctorate from the Sorbonne in 1931. Later that year he became the cultural attache at the Lithuanian Legation in Paris.\n\nBetween 1933 and 1939 Baltrušaitis taught art history at the University of Kaunas, as well as lecturing at the Sorbonne and at the Warburg Institute in London.\n\nAfter World War II he delivered lectures at New York University, Yale University, Harvard University, and at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.\n\nHis diplomatic efforts included writing for the French press on Lithuanian issues, and representing Lithuania in international organizations such as the \"Académie Internationale des Sciences et des Lettres\" and the Lithuanian Legation in Paris.\n\nBaltrušaitis died in Paris.\n\n\nAlgirdas Julius Greimas once noted that in the West the elder Jurgis Baltrušaitis is known as the father of a famous art historian, but in Eastern Europe - the younger Jurgis Baltrušaitis is known as the son of a famous poet.\n\n"}
{"id": "20037619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20037619", "title": "Kjetil Skogrand", "text": "Kjetil Skogrand\n\nKjetil Skogrand (born 5 January 1967) is a Norwegian historian and politician for the Labour Party.\n\nHe took the Master of Arts degree in International Relations at the University of Sussex in 1992, and the cand.philol. degree at the University of Oslo in 1994. He was a research fellow at the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs from 1994 to 1995 and a researcher at the Norwegian Institute for Defence Studies from 1997 to 2005.\n\nWhen the second cabinet Stoltenberg assumed office following the 2005 election, he was appointed State Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He resigned in November 2006.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "331795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=331795", "title": "Kon-Tiki expedition", "text": "Kon-Tiki expedition\n\nThe \"Kon-Tiki\" expedition was a 1947 journey by raft across the Pacific Ocean from South America to the Polynesian islands, led by Norwegian explorer and writer Thor Heyerdahl. The raft was named \"Kon-Tiki\" after the Inca sun god, Viracocha, for whom \"Kon-Tiki\" was said to be an old name. \"\" is also the name of Heyerdahl's book; the Academy Award-winning documentary film chronicling his adventures; and the 2012 dramatized feature film nominated for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film.\n\nHeyerdahl believed that people from South America could have settled Polynesia in pre-Columbian times. His aim in mounting the \"Kon-Tiki\" expedition was to show, by using only the materials and technologies available to those people at the time, that there were no technical reasons to prevent them from having done so. Although the expedition carried some modern equipment, such as a radio, watches, charts, sextant, and metal knives, Heyerdahl argued they were incidental to the purpose of proving that the raft itself could make the journey.\n\nThe \"Kon-Tiki\" expedition was funded by private loans, along with donations of equipment from the United States Army. Heyerdahl and a small team went to Peru, where, with the help of dockyard facilities provided by the Peruvian authorities, they constructed the raft out of balsa logs and other native materials in an indigenous style as recorded in illustrations by Spanish conquistadores. The trip began on April 28, 1947. Heyerdahl and five companions sailed the raft for 101 days over 6,900 km (4,300 miles) across the Pacific Ocean before smashing into a reef at Raroia in the Tuamotus on August 7, 1947. The crew made successful landfall and all returned safely.\n\nThor Heyerdahl's book about his experience became a bestseller. It was published in Norwegian in 1948 as \"The Kon-Tiki Expedition: By Raft Across the South Seas\", later reprinted as \"Kon-Tiki: Across the Pacific in a Raft\". It appeared with great success in English in 1950, also in many other languages. A documentary motion picture about the expedition, also called \"Kon-Tiki\", was produced from a write-up and expansion of the crew's filmstrip notes and won an Academy Award in 1951. It was directed by Thor Heyerdahl and edited by Olle Nordemar. The voyage was also chronicled in the documentary TV-series \"The Kon-Tiki Man: The Life and Adventures of Thor Heyerdahl\", directed by Bengt Jonson.\n\nThe original \"Kon-Tiki\" raft is now on display in the Kon-Tiki Museum at Bygdøy in Oslo.\n\n\"Kon-Tiki\" had a six-man crew, all of whom were Norwegian except for Bengt Danielsson, a Swede.\n\nThe expedition also carried a pet parrot named Lorita.\n\nThe main body of the float was composed of nine balsa tree trunks up to long, in diameter, lashed together with hemp ropes. Cross-pieces of balsa logs long and in diameter were lashed across the logs at intervals to give lateral support. Pine splashboards clad the bow, and lengths of pine thick and wide were wedged between the balsa logs and used as centreboards.\n\nThe main mast was made of lengths of mangrove wood lashed together to form an A-frame high. Behind the main-mast was a cabin of plaited bamboo long and wide was built about high, and roofed with banana leaf thatch. At the stern was a long steering oar of mangrove wood, with a blade of fir. The main sail was on a yard of bamboo stems lashed together. Photographs also show a top-sail above the main sail, and also a mizzen-sail, mounted at the stern.\n\nThe raft was partially decked in split bamboo. The main spars were a laminate of wood and reeds and Heyerdahl tested more than twenty different composites before settling on one that proved an effective compromise between bulk and torsional rigidity. No metal was used in the construction.\n\n\"Kon-Tiki\" carried of drinking water in 56 water cans, as well as a number of sealed bamboo rods. The purpose stated by Heyerdahl for carrying modern and ancient containers was to test the effectiveness of ancient water storage. For food \"Kon-Tiki\" carried 200 coconuts, sweet potatoes, bottle gourds and other assorted fruit and roots. The U.S. Army Quartermaster Corps provided field rations, tinned food and survival equipment. In return, the \"Kon-Tiki\" explorers reported on the quality and utility of the provisions. They also caught plentiful numbers of fish, particularly flying fish, \"dolphin fish\", yellowfin tuna, bonito and shark.\n\nThe expedition carried an amateur radio station with the call sign of LI2B operated by former World War II Norwegian resistance radio operators Knut Haugland and Torstein Raaby. Haugland and Raaby maintained regular communication with a number of American, Canadian, and South American stations that relayed \"Kon Tiki's\" status to the Norwegian Embassy in Washington, D.C. On August 5, Haugland made contact with a station in Oslo, Norway, away.\n\n\"Kon Tiki's\" transmitters were powered by batteries and a hand-cranked generator and operated on the 40, 20, 10, and 6-meter bands. Each unit was water resistant, used 2E30 vacuum tubes, and provided approximately 6 watts of RF output; the equivalent of a small flashlight. Two British 3-16 MHz Mark II transmitters were also carried on board, as was a VHF transmitter for communicating with aircraft and a hand-cranked Survival radio of the Gibson Girl type for 500 and 8280 kHz.\n\nThe radio receiver used throughout the voyage, a National Radio Company NC-173, once required a thorough drying out after being soaked when landing in Raratonga. The crew once used a hand-cranked emergency transmitter to send out an \"all well, all well\" message \"just in time to head off a massive rescue attempt\".\n\nThe call sign LI2B was used by Heyerdahl again in 1969–70, when he built a papyrus reed raft and sailed from Morocco to Barbados in an attempt to show a possible link between the civilization of ancient Egypt and the New World.\n\n\"Kon-Tiki\" left Callao, Peru, on the afternoon of April 28, 1947. To avoid coastal traffic it was initially towed out by the Fleet Tug \"Guardian Rios\" of the Peruvian Navy, then sailed roughly west carried along on the Humboldt Current.\n\nThe crew's first sight of land was the atoll of Puka-Puka on July 30. On August 4, the 97th day after departure, \"Kon-Tiki\" reached the Angatau atoll. The crew made brief contact with the inhabitants of Angatau Island, but were unable to land safely. Calculations made by Heyerdahl before the trip had indicated that 97 days was the minimum amount of time required to reach the Tuamotu islands, so the encounter with Angatau showed that they had made good time.\n\nOn August 7, the voyage came to an end when the raft struck a reef and was eventually beached on an uninhabited islet off Raroia atoll in the Tuamotu group. The team had travelled a distance of around in 101 days, at an average speed of .\n\nAfter spending a number of days alone on the tiny islet, the crew was greeted by men from a village on a nearby island who arrived in canoes, having seen washed-up flotsam from the raft. The crew were taken back to the native village, where they were feted with traditional dances and other festivities. Finally the crew were taken off Raroia to Tahiti by the French schooner \"Tamara\", with the salvaged \"Kon-Tiki\" in tow.\n\nHeyerdahl believed that the original inhabitants of Easter Island were migrants from Peru. He argued that the monumental statues known as moai resembled sculptures more typical of pre-Columbian Peru than any Polynesian designs. He believed that the Easter Island myth of a power struggle between two peoples called the Hanau epe and Hanau momoko was a memory of conflicts between the original inhabitants of the island and a later wave of Native Americans from the Northwest coast, eventually leading to the annihilation of the Hanau epe and the destruction of the island's culture and once-prosperous economy.\n\nMost historians consider that the Polynesians from the west were the original inhabitants and that the story of the Hanau epe is either pure myth, or a memory of internal tribal or class conflicts. In 2011 Professor Erik Thorsby of the University of Oslo presented DNA evidence to the Royal Society which whilst agreeing with the west origin also identified a distinctive but smaller genetic contribution from South America. This result was questioned in 2012 because of the possibility of contamination by South Americans after European contact with the islands. In 2014 further work by a team including Anna-Sapfo Malaspinas (from the Natural History Museum of Denmark) analysed the genomes of 27 native Rapa Nui people and found that their DNA was on average 76 percent Polynesian, 8 percent Native American and 16 percent European. Analysis showed that \"although the European lineage could be explained by contact with white Europeans after the island was 'discovered' in 1722 by Dutch sailors, the South American component was much older, dating to between about 1280 and 1495, soon after the island was first colonised by Polynesians in around 1200.\"\n\nIn 1954 William Willis sailed alone on a raft \"Seven Little Sisters\" from Peru to American Samoa, successfully completing the journey. He sailed , which was farther than \"Kon-Tiki\". In a second great voyage ten years later, he rafted from South America to Australia with a metal raft \"Age Unlimited\".\n\nIn 1955, the Czech explorer and adventurer Eduard Ingris attempted to recreate the \"Kon-Tiki\" expedition on a balsa raft called \"Kantuta\". His first expedition, \"Kantuta I\", took place in 1955–1956 and led to failure. In 1959 Ingris built a new balsa raft, \"Kantuta II\", and tried to repeat the previous expedition. The second expedition was a success. Ingris was able to cross the Pacific Ocean on the balsa raft from Peru to Polynesia.\n\nA French seafarer, Éric de Bisschop, committed himself in a project he had had for some years: he built a Polynesian raft in order to cross the eastern Pacific Ocean from Tahiti to Chile (contrary to Thor Heyerdahl's crossing); the \"Tahiti-Nui\" left Papeete with a crew of five on November 8, 1956. When near the Juan Fernández Islands (Chile) in May 1957, the raft was in a very poor state and they asked for a towing, but it was damaged during the operation and had to be abandoned, but they could keep all the equipment aboard.\n\nA second \"Tahiti-Nui\" was built in Constitución, Chile, leaving on April 13, 1958, towards Callao, then towards the Marquesas. It missed its target and after 4 months, the raft began to sink. The crew built a new smaller raft, the \"Tahiti Nui III\", in the ocean out of the more buoyant parts of the \"Tahiti Nui II\". They were swept towards Cook Islands where on August 30, the raft went aground and was wrecked at Rakahanga atoll. Éric de Bisschop died in this accident.\n\nA Peruvian expedition led by Carlos Caravedo crossed the Pacific Ocean in 1965 in 115 days in a raft named \"Tangaroa\", of which 18 days were used by the crew to cross Tuamotus, the Tuamotu Archipielago, making \"Tangaroa\" the only raft that has managed to cross that dangerous archipelago of French Polynesia by its own means. On November 18, 1965, the \"Tangaroa\" ended its journey on the Fakarava island. Fakarava is where the \"Tangaroa\" is currently preserved.\n\nThe 1973 Las Balsas expedition was the first (and so far only) multiple-raft crossing of the Pacific Ocean in recent history. It is the longest-known raft voyage in history. The expedition was led by Spaniard Vital Alsar, who, in 1970, led the La Balsa expedition, only on that occasion with one raft and three companions. The crossing was successful and, at the time, the longest raft voyage in history, until eclipsed in 1973 by Las Balsas. The purpose of the 1973 expedition was three-fold: (1) to prove that the success of 1970 was no accident, (2) to test different currents in the sea, which Alsar maintained ancient mariners knew as modern humans know road maps, and (3) to show that the original expeditions, directed perhaps toward trade or colonisation, may have consisted of small fleets of balsa rafts.\n\nIn 2006, the Tangaroa Expedition recreated the \"Kon-Tiki\" voyage using a newly built raft, the \"Tangaroa\", named after the Māori sea-god Tangaroa. Tangaroa's six-man crew was led by Norwegian Torgeir Higraff and included Olav Heyerdahl, grandson of Thor Heyerdahl, Bjarne Krekvik (captain), Øyvin Lauten (executive officer), Swedish Anders Berg (photographer) and Peruvian Roberto Sala. Tangaroa was launched on the same day that Kon-Tiki had been—April 28—and it reached its destination on July 7, which was 30 days faster than Heyerdahl's Kon-Tiki which had taken 101 days for the voyage. Tangaroa's speed was credited to the proper use of guaras (centerboards).\n\nOn January 30, 2011, \"An-Tiki\", a raft modeled after \"Kon-Tiki\", began a , 70-day journey across the Atlantic Ocean from the Canary Islands to the island of Eleuthera in the Bahamas. The expedition was piloted by four men, aged from 56 to 84 years, led by Anthony Smith. The trip was designed to commemorate the journey in an open boat of survivors from the British steamship \"Anglo-Saxon\", sunk by the German cruiser \"Widder\" in 1940. The raft ended its voyage in the Caribbean island of St Maarten, completing its trip to Eleuthera in the following year with Smith and a new crew.\n\nOn 7 November 2015, two teams with two balsa rafts \"Rahiti Tane\" and \"Tupac Yupanqui\" left Lima, Peru for Easter Island. Expedition \"Kon-Tiki2\" got its name because it had 2 crews from many nations: Norway, Russia, UK, Mexico, New Zealand, Sweden, and Peru. It sought to double down on Heyerdahl's voyage by sailing two rafts from South America to Polynesia and then back. Expedition leader was Torgeir Higraff from Tangaroa Expedition (2006). Øyvin Lauten and Kari Skår Dahl were captains on the first leg, while Signe Meling and Ola Borgfjord were captains on the second leg. The raft reached Easter Island, but did not complete the return.\n\nThe two rafts were made of 11 balsa logs and 10 crossbeams held together by 2000 meters of natural fiber ropes. Tens of thousands of waves, up to six meters tall, hit the rafts in an El Niño year. This stress for 16 weeks weakened the ropes, but the crew could not replace all of them. On March 3, 2016, all crew members were taken on board the Hokuetsu Ushaka freight ship after 115 days of sailing and 4½ months at sea.\n\nA book documenting the voyage and raft was released in 1948 by Thor Heyerdahl, called \"\".\n\nA film documentary about the voyage and raft was released in 1950, called \"Kon-Tiki\". It won the 1951 Oscar for Best Documentary Feature.\n\n\"Kon-Tiki\" is a 2012 Norwegian historical dramatized feature film about the 1947 \"Kon-Tiki\" expedition. It stars Pål Sverre Valheim Hagen as Thor Heyerdahl and is directed by Joachim Rønning and Espen Sandberg. It was the highest-grossing film of 2012 in Norway and the country's most expensive production to date.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32511805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32511805", "title": "Küstrin Putsch", "text": "Küstrin Putsch\n\nThe Küstrin Putsch, also known as the Buchrucker Putsch, was a reaction to the September 26, 1923 quelling of resistance by the German government to the occupation of the Ruhr region.\n\nLed by Bruno Ernst Buchrucker, groups of the Black Reichswehr wanted to bring down the Reich government of Chancellor Gustav Stresemann and replace the parliamentarian-democratic Republic with a national dictatorship. Another motive for the putsch was the Reichswehr's decision to disband work details, causing many of their members to lose their livelihood.\n\nThe attempt to occupy Küstrin, a garrison city, was prevented by units of the Reichswehr. Buchrucker and other officers were arrested and sentenced for high treason to imprisonment in a fortress or prison. The bulk of the rebels were soon released and were not punished.\n\nFor a short time, the putsch controlled the citadel and Fort Hahneberg, but were then forced to surrender to the Reichswehr.\n\n"}
{"id": "29978902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29978902", "title": "Lee Bae-yong", "text": "Lee Bae-yong\n\nLee Bae-Yong (born January 1, 1947) was the 13th president of Ewha Womans University, in central Seoul, South Korea. In 1969, Lee graduated from Ewha Womans University Department of History, and in 1971, received her master's degree in History from the university. Lee majored in Korean History at Sogang University where she earned a doctorate in 1984. Since 1985, Lee has worked as a professor.\n\nMajor Career\n\n"}
{"id": "55453513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55453513", "title": "Lindsay Allason-Jones", "text": "Lindsay Allason-Jones\n\nLindsay Allason-Jones, is a British archaeologist and museum professional specialising in Roman material culture, Hadrian's Wall, Roman Britain, and the presence and role of women in the Roman Empire. She is currently a Visiting Fellow at Newcastle University.\n\nAllason-Jones completed her undergraduate degree at Newcastle University in 1974 before working for Chelmsford Excavation Committee/> She then worked for Tyne and Wear Museums Service, working on, and subsequently publishing the small finds from Arbeia Roman Fort.In 1978 she began working at the Museum of Antiquities of the University and Society of Antiquaries of Newcastle upon Tyne. She became Newcastle University Director of Museums in 1998,becoming Director the Centre for Interdisciplinary Artefact Studies when the museum was closed in 2009. Alongside her work in the museum she was also Reader in Roman Material Culture in the Archaeology Department of Newcastle University.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2006 Allason-Jones served as the President of the Royal Archaeological Institute, She has also served as the President of the Society of Antiquaries of Newcastle upon Tyne and still acts as the Keeper of Collections. Allason-Jones was admitted as a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London in January 1988, and is a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland and the Royal Society of Arts. She was awarded an OBE for services to archaeology in 2014 in the New Year Honours List. Allason-Jones retired in 2011, and in 2014 an edited volume of papers was published in her honour, containing papers covering the key themes of her career.\n\nAllason-Jones has an extensive publication record on the material culture of Roman Britain and has been involved in the research of archaeological discoveries such as the Rudge Cup, the Corbridge Hoard, and Coventina's Well. She has appeared in several TV programmes on historical themes, including Time Team (1996-2000), Timewatch (2007), History Cold Case (2011) and Walking Through History (2014), as well as being the historical advisor on the 2011 film The Eagle.\n\nAllason-Jones has held many trusteeships, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2385496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2385496", "title": "Louise Pound", "text": "Louise Pound\n\nLouise Pound (June 30, 1872 – June 27, 1958) was a distinguished American folklorist, linguist, and college professor at the University of Nebraska.\n\nPound was born in Lincoln, Nebraska to Stephen Bosworth Pound and Laura Pound. Alongside her older brother, noted legal professor Roscoe Pound, and her younger sister, Olivia Pound, Pound was instructed by her mother in various disciplines including the natural sciences, ancient and modern languages, and literature.\n\nPound studied at a preparatory school, the Latin School, in the School of Fine Arts, transitioning in 1888 to the University of Nebraska (B.B. 1892 and M.A., 1895). Pound was an active student throughout the university. Along with her siblings and her colleague Willa Cather, she was a member of the University Union Literary Society at the University of Nebraska. An orator for senior Class Day Exercises, Pound presented a speech entitled \"The Apotheosis of the Common,\" an oration arguing the threat of prose to poetry, of the average to the individual. During her pursuit of a Masters at the University of Nebraska, Pound began to teach at least one course in Anglo-Saxon in the English Department. In November 1892, Pound, Olivia, and Cather starred in two plays as part of the Union Branch of the University Drama club: one, a farce called \"The Fatal Pin\"; the other, \"Shakespeare Up to Date,\" a creative endeavor involving a plot of vengeance by Juliet (Pound), Ophelia (Olivia), and Macbeth (Cather). A later production, \"A Perjured Padulion,\" was speculated to have been written by Louise Pound, as described by the \"Nebraskan\" and the \"Hesperian\". In January 1985, just before receiving her Masters, Pound published a short story in the \"Nebraska State Journal\", \"By Homeopathic Treatment,\" describing an attempt at intervention for a socially conscious young woman, Matilda, by her friends, who attempt to introduce Matilda to Clementine, who believes woman's purpose is the selfless amelioration of society's evils. \"By Homeopathic Treatment\" was followed by \"Miss Adelaide and Miss Amy\" and \"The Passenger from Metropolis,\" neither of which were published.\n\nPound continued her studies at the University of Chicago and the University of Heidelberg, earning her PhD. in philological studies in 1900. By then, she had authored \"\"The Romaunt of the Rose\": Additional Evidence that it is Chaucer's\" (1896)--an essay on Chaucer's role in the English translation of \"Le roman de la rose\"—had read her paper \"English Pronunciation in Shakespeare's Time\" at a gathering of graduate students, and presented her paper \"The Relation of the Finnsburg Fragment to the Finn Episode in \"Beowulf\"\" at the fourth session of the Central Division of the Modern Language Association. During her philological studies at the University of Chicago she also published \"A List of Strong Verbs and Preterite Present Verbs in Anglo-Saxon\" through the University of Chicago Press, an educational pamphlet meant to be used in her courses at the University of Nebraska. Pound completed her PhD at Heidelberg within a year, graduating magna cum laude. Her dissertation, \"The Comparison of Adjectives in English in the XV and XVI Century,\" was supervised by Heidelberg's Professor Johannes Hoops.\n\nShortly after attaining her PhD, Dr. Pound became an adjunct professor of English at the University of Nebraska—where she would stay for most of her career, becoming a full professor by 1912—under department chair Dr. Lucius Sherman, who had served as both her teacher and supervisor for her Master's. Here her work would focus on American folklore and dialect studies.\n\nLouise Pound had an intimate relationship with Ani Königsberger, in which love letters were regularly exchanged for over half a century. They began their relationship as classmates who both loved the game of tennis leading to their intense and emotional companionship. Both Pound and Königsberger shared similar interests such as athletics and the outdoors. The two would spend time together; Königsberger bringing Pound on hikes and climbs while Pound teaching Königsberger “the net game” in tennis.\n\nPound, focusing on her professional life in teaching and scholarship, did not continue her romance with Königsberger.\n\nPound was a member of many professional societies. In 1905 Dr. Pound was a champion of the Order of the Black Masque, senior women's honor society, which became a chapter of Mortar Board National College Senior Honor Society in 1920. Dr. Pound became a member of Mortar Board in that year. She was president of the American Folklore Society, 1925-1927. She was the first woman to serve as president of the Modern Language Association (1954–1955). In 1925, with Kemp Malone and Arthur G. Kennedy, she founded the journal \"American Speech\" \"to present information about English in America in a form appealing to general readers\". Pound was the Nebraska director (1906-1908) and later national vice president of the American Association of University Women from the 1930s to 1944. An athlete in her youth, Pound was inducted into the Nebraska Sports Hall of Fame in 1955.\n\nA posthumous scholarship was developed from the estates of Roscoe and Olivia Pound in Louise Pound's name. The fellowship, handled by the AAUW, awards yearly stipends to international women students.\n\nLouise Pound was one of the pioneers of the linguistic study of American English. The majority of her research and publications occurred pre-World War II, a time where many linguistic scholars were primarily interested in investigating British and colonial English. Pound, however, sought to examine language trends in contemporary American English, most notably in word coinage and semantics, the historical origins of American pronunciations, and mutual influences of American literature, folklore, culture, and language.\n\nMuch of Pound's scholarship involved identifying trends in American language and speech. Pound created a corpus of American euphemisms for associations with death, exploring American discomfort with the reality of morbidity. In addition, through investigating the etymology of trade names and word coinage, Pound ascertained that American commercial terminology had become mercurial and boundless. Such a shift in brand names was, to Pound, a clear break with the past conservatism and monotony of commercial language and demonstrated that Americans were claiming their own place with the inventiveness of language. Pound also delineated multiple instances where American English deviated from standard norms in the pluralization of Latin and Greek loan words. Examples of such divergences are the use of latin plural words as American singular words such as \"curricula\", \"data\", \"alumni\", and \"syllabi;\" the creation of double plurals such as \"insignias\" and \"stimulis\"; and the creation of -s plurals from Latin singulars such as \"antennas\", \"vertebras\", and \"emporiums\"\".\" Pound focused much of her linguistic research upon the etymology of American slang words (e.g., \"darn\") as well as tracing the historical evolution of the idiosyncrasies of American pronunciation, as in the secondary nasal /n/ in Midwestern and New England English.\n\nIn addition to linguistic research of American English, Pound was also a scholar of early American literature, most notably Walt Whitman. It is no surprise that Pound, who defied American linguistic norms by studying contemporary American English, would write prolifically about Whitman's unorthodox language use. In writing about Whitman's influences upon his work, Pound identifies specific non-British influences and nuances to Whitman's writing such as Italian opera music; a predilection for French words and expressions involving nouns, slang, social words, and military terms; and unconventional renderings of classic bird poetry which use birds as symbols of fear, loss, and fatality as opposed to the conventional joyful and aesthetic birds metaphorically portrayed.\n\nA lifelong resident of Nebraska, Pound used the rich folklore and dialect of her region to guide much of her research. True to the characteristic form of her research, Pound seeks to chronicle the features which distinguish American from traditional British and Scottish folklore as well as qualify the traits which set Nebraska folklore apart from other regions of America. Through interviews with a diverse demographic of Nebraska residents, Pound created a corpus of Nebraska lore of snakes, caves, and weeping water. Each body of lore that Pound collected is examined through historical, cultural, and linguistic lenses.\n\nH.L. Mencken described Louise Pound as \"putting the study of American English on its legs.\" The two spent thirty years corresponding about their interests in producing research highlighting differences between American and British English, a concept which was not popular at the time. One of Pound's most notable studies was her historical anthology on ballads which challenged scholastic assumptions about ballads as being primitive. Pound outlined the historical poetic nature of ballads and claiming them to be communal representations of contemporary culture which continue to evolve into perpetuity in American southwest and indigenous cultures. Throughout her life, Pound composed many anthologies on the poetic and historical influences upon American ballads.\n\nPound and Cather residence halls at the University of Nebraska (Lincoln) were named after Louise Pound and Willa Cather, with whom Pound maintained a close friendship. Some scholars argue that Louise Pound and Willa Cather's friendship intruded on the romantic. Willa Cather biographers Phyllis C. Robinson and Sharon O'Brien argue that Pound was Cather's object of desire, O'Brien citing in her \"Willa Cather: The Emerging Voice\" (1987) Cather's 1892 and 1893 letters to Pound. The 1892 letter expresses Cather's impression of Pound, Cather's feelings of strangeness around her, an anxiety of the \"customary goodbye formality,\" and a noted disagreement with the perceived unnaturalness in \"feminine friendships.\" James Woodress, author of \"Willa Cather: A Literary Life\" (1987), argues that no evidence exists that Pound responded to Cather's affection.\n\nPound also maintained a distinct rivalry with Mabel Lee, a faculty member of the University of Nebraska physical education department. Pound and Lee were initially cordial, yet differing perspectives on the role of athletics—Pound supported athletics as a field of competition, competition about which Lee maintained reservations—embittered their relationship.\n\nPound entered and won the Lincoln City Tennis Championship in 1890 and continued her tennis career competing against men for the University of Nebraska title in 1891 and 1892; winning both years. At 18 years old, Louise competed and won the Women’s Western Tennis Championship in 1897. Pound was not only the first and only female in school history to earn a men’s varsity letter, she was also rated the top player in the country while working on her doctorate at Heidelberg University. Very few times did Pound’s tennis skills fall short however at the Ladies’ Western Tennis Championship held in Chicago, Illinois she was defeated playing a three-time U.S. Open singles champion, Juliette Atkinson. Louise not only played tennis but also showed interest in golf, winning the state golf championship in 1916.\n\nPound was an all-around athlete showing interest in figure skating, earning a 100 mile cycling medal in 1906, introducing skiing to Lincoln as well as being captain of her school’s basketball team. She played center in their first women’s basketball game in 1898 and continued to be involved with basketball by managing the university women’s basketball team. Pound is also the only woman in history to be rewarded in the University of Nebraska Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nPound continued her tennis journey by playing doubles with Carrie Neely, at the age of 43, and winning the 1915 Central Western and Western doubles championships. In 1926, at 54 years old, Pound won the Lincoln city championship, being the first women’s state golf champion.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48667323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48667323", "title": "Marica Malović-Đukić", "text": "Marica Malović-Đukić\n\nMarica Malović-Đukić (; born 1949) is a Serbian historian, specialized in the economic and social history of maritime communes in the Middle Ages, with special focus on Kotor and Dubrovnik. She finished studying history at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade in 1973, with the work \"Длугошев списак српских градова\" for which she received the October Award of the city of Belgrade. She magistered with the work \"Стефан Дечански\" in 1977, and the doctorate dissertation \"Котор у XIII и XIV вијеку\" was defended in 1988. She worked at the Historical Institute of SR Montenegro in Podgorica from 1975, and from 1988 she works at the Historical Institute of Serbia. She has worked with the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Her languages also include Italian, English, Latin and Old Slavic.\n"}
{"id": "2341023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2341023", "title": "Mihira Bhoja", "text": "Mihira Bhoja\n\nMihira Bhoja (836–885 CE) or Bhoja I was a ruler of the Gurjara-Pratihara dynasty of India. He succeeded his father Ramabhadra. Bhoja was a devotee of Vishnu and adopted the title of \"Adivaraha\" which is inscribed on some of his coins. One of the outstanding political figures of India in ninth century, he ranks with Dhruva Dharavarsha and Dharmapala as a great general and empire builder.\n\nAt its height, Bhoja's empire extended to Narmada River in the South, Sutlej River in the northwest, and up to Bengal in the east. It extended over a large area from the foot of the Himalayas up to the river Narmada and included the present district of Etawah in Uttar Pradesh.\n\nDuring his reign, the capital was in Kannauj (present-day Uttar Pradesh), during his period Kannauj was referred as Panchala.\n\nHe was a bitter enemy of the Arab invaders who, according to an Arab chronicler, Sulaiman, maintained a large army and had a fine cavalry. The territories under his rule were prosperous and safe from robbers. His state was rich in natural resources, especially gold and silver mines.\n\nMany temples made by him still survive. Teli Mandir, near Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, marks the presence of Vishnu on earth. The temple's architecture, design and layout features an outstanding fusion of architectural styles: the roof resembles a Dravidian style while the decoration highlights the art of North India.\n\nHe was succeeded by his son Mahendrapala I (c.836 - 910 CE).\n\nWhen Mihira Bhoja started his career reverses and defeats suffered by his father Ramabhadra had considerably lowered the prestige of the Royal Gurjara Pratihara family. He invaded the Pala Empire of Bengal, but was defeated by Devapala. He then launched a campaign to conquer the territories to the south of his empire and was successful. After Devapala's death, Bhoja defeated the Pala King Narayanapala and the Rashtrakuta ruler Krishna II. He gradually rebuilt the empire by conquest of territories in Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. The Chandelas of Bundelkhand acknowledged his suzerainty. Besides being a conqueror, Bhoja was a great diplomat.\nAccording to the sources (inscriptions found in Gawilor) Mihira Bhoja defeated Dharmapala the ruler of Pala Empire. But defeated by his son Devapala. There are other sources which claims that Mihira Bhoja defeated some of the Arab rulers of the northwest.\n\nMihira Bhoja's epithet was \"Srimad-Adivaraha\" (the fortunate primeval boar incarnation of Vishnu) and therefore there is a broad agreement amongst the scholars on the attribution of \"adivaraha dramma\" billon coins to him. These coins have a depiction of \"Adivaraha\" on the obverse.\n"}
{"id": "21341363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21341363", "title": "Milko Kos Historical Institute", "text": "Milko Kos Historical Institute\n\nThe Milko Kos Historical Institute () is a scientific and research institute under the patronage of the Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Its mission is the study of Slovenian history from its beginnings to the end of the World War I. The institute's research work is carried out in the form of programmes and projects and follows the guidelines, put forth by the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts:\n\nFounded in 1947, the Institute was originally conceived as the Section of General and National History at the Institute of history, which was headed by professor Milko Kos. In 1972 the presidium of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts resolved to transform the Section into an independent Institute of General and National History. The latter got its present-day name in 1977.\n\n"}
{"id": "3517724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3517724", "title": "Moremi Ajasoro", "text": "Moremi Ajasoro\n\nMoremi Ajasoro, Princess of the Yoruba, was a figure of high significance in the history of the Yoruba peoples of West Africa. She was a member-by-marriage of the royal family of Emperor Oduduwa, the tribe's fabled founding father.\n\nThe Oloori Moremi lived in the 12th century, hailed from Offa, and was married to the then king of Ile Ife, a kingdom that is said to have been at war with an adjoining tribe who were known to them as the Forest people (\"Ìgbò\" in the Yoruba language, though the said tribe is believed by scholars to have had no relation to the contemporary Ìgbòs of modern Nigeria). Scores of Ife citizens were being enslaved by these people, and because of this they were generally regarded with disdain by the Yoruba city-states. \n\nMoremi was a very brave and beautiful woman who, in order to deal with the problem facing her people, offered anything she had to give in sacrifice to the Spirit of the river Esimirin so that she could discover the strength of her nation's enemies.\n\nShe is said to have been taken as a slave by the Igbo and, due to her beauty, married their ruler as his anointed queen. After familiarizing herself with the secrets of her new husband's army, she escaped to Ile-Ife and revealed this to the Yorubas who were able to subsequently defeat them in battle.\n\nFollowing the war she returned to her first husband, King Oramiyan of Ife (and later Oyo), who immediately had her re-instated as his Princess Consort. In order to fulfil the pledge she made to Esimirin before embarking on her mission, her son Olurogbo was given in sacrifice to the Spirit because this is what it asked her for when she returned to its shrine.\n\nThe Edi Festival is said to have then been started as a means of celebrating the sacrifice the princess made for the people of Yorubaland. Furthermore, a number of public places are named after her in contemporary Nigeria, such as the female residence halls at the University of Lagos and Obafemi Awolowo University.\n\nIn 2017, Oba Ogunwusi, the Ooni of Ile Ife, Osun State, erected a statue of Moremi in his palace. The statue is the tallest in Nigeria, displacing the previous holder of that record (a statue in Owerri, the Imo State capital). It is also the fourth tallest in Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "55578438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55578438", "title": "Orlando Fedeli", "text": "Orlando Fedeli\n\nOrlando Fedeli (São Paulo, 7 February 1933 - São Paulo, 9 June 2010) was a Brazilian Traditionalist Catholic historian, teacher and political activist. He was the founder and president of the Montfort Cultural Association, in 1983.\n\nFedeli was born to Italian parents. He studied at Dom Bosco College, of Salesian priests, and at Our Lady of Carmo College, of the Marist Brothers. After serving in the army, he studied at the Pontifical Catholic University of São Paulo, where he graduated in History in 1954. One of this teachers was Plinio Corrêa de Oliveira. He also took a doctorate in History by the University of São Paulo. He was a teacher in several secondary schools in São Paulo and at the Pontifical Catholic University of São Paulo.\n\nA follower of Plinio Corrêa de Oliveira, he was a member of the Tradition, Family and Property organization for more than thirty years but he left it and became one of his harshest critics, as well of his later offshoot, the Heralds of the Gospel.\n\nHe was a Traditionalist Catholic and a critic of the Vatican Council II, which he considered to have been influenced by theological modernism, and his innovations, like the adoption of the concepts of religious freedom and ecumenism. He was also very critical of the Catholic Charismatic Renewal and in particular of the \"Canção Nova\" (\"New Song\") movement. He opposed above all the Liberation Theology and the leftist inclinations of the National Conference of Bishops of Brazil. He was accused of anti-semitism. A supporter of the latin mass, he praised Pope Benedict XVI apostolic letter \"Summorum Pontificum\".\n\nHe published four books, \"Nos Labirintos de Eco\" (2005), his interpretation of Umberto Eco's novel \"The Name of the Rose\", \"Carta a Um Padre\" (2007), where he strongly criticizes the Vatican Council II, \"Antropoteísmo: a Religião do Homem\" (2011), concerning esoterism during universal History, and \"No País das Maravilhas: a Gnose Burlesca da TFP e dos Arautos do Evangelho\" (2012), where he accuses TFP and the Heralds of the Gospel of being esoteric cults.\n\n"}
{"id": "958703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=958703", "title": "Peter Englund", "text": "Peter Englund\n\nPeter Mikael Englund (born 4 April 1957) is a Swedish author and historian. Englund writes non-fiction books and essays, mainly about history, and especially about the Swedish Empire, but also about other historical events. He writes in a very accessible style, providing narrative details usually omitted in typical books about history. His books have gained popularity and are translated into several languages, such as German and Czech. He was the permanent secretary of the Swedish Academy from 1 June 2009 to 31 May 2015, when he was succeeded by Sara Danius. In April 2018, he announced that he would no longer be an active member of the Swedish Academy.\n\nEnglund was born in Boden and studied a preparatory course for the caring professions for two years and then humanistic subjects for another two years in secondary school. He was then conscripted and served 15 months in the Swedish Army at the Norrbotten Regiment located in Boden. He was politically active in his youth and supported the FNL.\n\nEnglund studied archaeology, history, and theoretical philosophy at Uppsala University, completing a bachelor's degree in 1983, after which he began doctoral studies in History. He was awarded his Ph.D. in 1989 for his dissertation \"Det hotade huset\" (English title in the dissertation abstract: \"A House in Peril\") (1989), an investigation of the worldview of the 17th-century Swedish nobility. During his period as a doctoral student, he had also worked for some time for the Swedish Military Intelligence and Security Service (\"MUST\"), and the year before receiving his doctorate he had published the bestselling \"Poltava\", a detailed description of the Battle of Poltava, where the troops of Swedish king Charles XII were defeated by the Russian army of Tsar Peter I in 1709.\n\nEnglund has received the August Prize (1993) and the Selma Lagerlöf Prize for Literature (2002). He was elected a member of the Swedish Academy in 2002. On 1 June 2009 he succeeded Horace Engdahl as the permanent secretary of the Academy.\n\nIn 2009, to perhaps distance himself from Engdahl, the previous Nobel secretary, Englund, \"criticized the jury panel as being too \"Eurocentric,'\" and \"told the Associated Press that it was easier for Europeans to relate to European literature.\". In December 2014 he announced his retirement from the post of secretary of the Swedish Academy and was succeeded by Sara Danius May 31, 2015. On 1 June 2015, Sara Danius succeeded Peter Englund as permanent secretary.\n\nOn 6 April 2018, Englund announced that he would no longer participate in the Academy's work. On the same day, Klas Östergren and Kjell Espmark also declared that they would become inactive members of the Academy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "675552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=675552", "title": "Peter H. Salus", "text": "Peter H. Salus\n\nPeter H. Salus is a linguist, computer scientist, historian of technology, author in many fields, and an editor of books and journals. He has conducted research in germanistics, language acquisition, and computer languages. He has a 1963 PhD in Linguistics from New York University.\n\nAfter serving as professor and dean at several universities, he is now largely retired. He has also been Executive Director of both the USENIX Association and the Sun User Group, and Vice President of the Free Software Foundation; in addition, he has worked for several high tech startups. From 1987 to 1996, he was Managing Editor of the technical journal \"Computing Systems\" (MIT Press and the USENIX Association).\n\nHe is best known for his books on the history of computing, particularly \"A Quarter Century of UNIX\" and \"Casting The Net\" (a history of the Internet up to 1995).\n\n"}
{"id": "42159303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42159303", "title": "Poffer", "text": "Poffer\n\nThe poffer, toer (Limburg dialect) or North Brabantian hat is a traditional female folk headdress of North Brabant, most famous of the Meierij of 's-Hertogenbosch and of northern Limburg, Netherlands. The poffer was worn only by married women. It was fashionable between the 1860s and the 1920s. In contrast to Zeeland and the more northern parts of the Netherlands, in North Brabant and Limburg there was never any distinctive folkloric costume worn by either men or women, making the poffer the only folkloric garment in this part of the Netherlands.\n\nThe word \"poffer\" is derived from \"poffen\", the puffing of sleeves and trousers worn in the mid-19th century. The poffer evolved from a simple headdress, the \"paske\" (a strip of fabric decorated with narrow, pleated fabric) which was worn on a white hat. In Limburg the poffer is called a \"toer\". \"Toer\" is a term derived from the French word, \"touronette\". \"Touronette\" is akin to \"feminine finery\" but was originally a braid with ribbons and flowers. The poffer is not to be confused with the \"poffer-pan\", used to make \"poffertjes\".\n\nPrior to 1900, the Brabant area was not prosperous due to poor sandy soil. With the introduction of fertilizer around 1860, the region's economy improved. This new wealth was reflected by an increase in the size of the poffer, which was at its largest size between about 1915 and 1920.\nThe poffer was worn by those who could afford one: the wives of middle class men, richer farmers, officials and professionals, such as a mayor or doctor. The size and elegance of a woman's poffer reflected her husband's wealth. Men aspired to see their wives noticed in an elaborate poffer. Sometimes, the poffer was mockingly called a \"meringue\".\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century, the poffer fell out of favour, largely because of its impracticality, especially when riding a bicycle. There was also a lack of fabric in the area during the second world war period. The wearing of the poffer continued until the 1950s but only on special occasions such as weddings, holidays and attending church during which it was replaced by more modern style hats.\n\nThe poffer was a white tulle hat with a lace trim. It was decorated with pearls and white, gold, silver or glass beads called \"dew drops\". It was also adorned with artificial flowers (or artificial fruit in case of older women) and four ribbons (\"lavaliers\") of about 12 cm wide and 60 cm long which hung over the shoulders and the back. The breadth and quality of the ribbons indicated the wealth of the wearer. The details of the poffer varied from one area to another.\n\nThe poffer was decorated with artificial flowers or fruits in pastel shades or brighter colors depending of the town's tradition. One could recognize the hometown of the wearer by its appearance and the age of the wearer by the decoration on the poffer. Flowers were for brides and younger married women. Older women decorated their poffer with silk apples, pears and buds.\n\nThe poffer varied regionally in size, shape, colour and decoration. Women preferred the type of poffer from their home town. If a woman was married and lived in another village, she usually would buy her poffer from the poffer maker in her home village or town.\n\nThe poffer had many different local names including: \"klein mutsje\" (little hat); \"koveltje\" (from little cowl or dormeuse); \"kempische muts\" (Campinian hat); \"kindermuts\" (children's hat); \"cornetmuts\" (from cornette hat); \"Eindhovense mutsje\" (Eindhovenian hat); \"drie-toerkes muts\" (three-touronettes hat); and, \"daagse muts\" (daily hat).\n\nThe type of head garment was found in North Brabant, Limburg from Mook to Roermond and across the German border to just past Xanten. To the north, poffers were worn in southern Gelderland, for example, in Nijmegen and Bommelerwaard.\n\nThe biggest poffer was worn in the Meierij, where it was worn towards the front of the head. To the east of Brabant and Limburg the poffer would be placed further back on the head. In eastern North Brabant, the poffer followed the shape of the head, like an arc. In western North Brabant, a pleated poffer was worn.\n\nFirst, a black cap was worn to smooth the form and strengthen the shape of the head. This hat was worn at home when the woman was around an open fire. Next, a lace, tulle or gauze hat was worn. Then, the poffer was worn as an over-bonnet, either pinned to the hat at the front and or tied beneath the chin. To keep the soft fabric of the poffer in shape, starch with borax and white wax was used. The hat and poffer were detached for cleaning and washed in soft soap and then laid, still wet, on the grass to be bleached by the sun. Starch was used to keep the fabric from yellowing.\n\nPoffers for babies and young children were not made. Even so, a baby or young girl's bonnet could be decorated with gauze flowers and had ribbons for securing.\n\nUnmarried women did not wear a poffer. However, they did wear a black bonnet called a \"capotehoedje\" or \"kaphoedje\". These were headdresses of a single black piece of fabric, adorned with four black ribbons and black artificial flowers. They were worn after a girl's first holy communion at about the age of twelve.\n\nTraditionally, in the Netherlands, those in mourning wore dark clothes. In North Brabant and northern Limburg the shade of the day to day dress was also dark or black (also for weddings and other celebrations clothing was black). Women in those areas therefore indicated their mourning state by wearing a special type of poffer: there would be no lace trim and no beads and few flowers. In some villages in the Peel the mourning poffer could be all black or it was black and white, but these are exceptions. Generally a mourning poffer would be entirely white without any or with only flower decorations. If the deceased was a more distant relative, an all white \"half\" mourning poffer with all white flower decorations but without beads and never with lace was worn.\n\nOnce, each village had a poffer maker with their own distinct tradition, and the poffer maker would in detail consult the client how the design would look like and which fabrics would be used. A poffer took approximately sixty hours to make. Poffer makers were divided into three grades. In the lowest grade were women who cleaned, repaired and washed the poffers. The middle grade consisted of those who made new poffers. The \"upper ten\" designed the poffers and made high end articles. Poffer makers were often unmarried ladies with a physical impairment.\n\nFor washing, starching, ironing and reassembling a poffer, a poffer maker received 9 cents. The price of an ordinary poffer was 35 guilders. A mourning poffer costed 15 guilders. A chic poffer with handmade lace and a new under hat costed approximately 100 guilders. The price depended on the amount of lace and the number of floral motifs. A special poffer could cost as much as 500 guilders. Usually, a farmer's wife had two or three poffers.\n\nDutch ethnological museums have a number of poffers in their collections, and some North Brabantian museums have special collections, for example, the Museum van Brabantse mutsen en poffers in Sint-Oedenrode.\nPoffers are worn during folkloric celebrations, especially at the \"boerenbruiloft\" (peasant wedding) during the carnaval. In 1996, on the occasion of the 200th anniversary of the province of North Brabant, a commemorative coin was issued which was called the \"poffer\". It depicted a woman wearing a poffer. This coin was legal tender until 10 January 1997.\n\nThe best known visual art representation of the poffer is likely the 1885 portrait of a woman by Vincent van Gogh, held in the Norton Simon Museum of Art, Pasadena, California. Vincent van Gogh made several woman portraits with poffers during his Nuenen period.\n\n"}
{"id": "15640137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15640137", "title": "Reconstruction (architecture)", "text": "Reconstruction (architecture)\n\nReconstruction is a term in architectural conservation whose precise meaning varies, depending on the context in which they are used.\n\nMore broadly, such as under the ICOMOS Burra Charter, \"reconstruction\" means returning a damaged building to a known earlier state by the introduction of new materials. It is related to the architectural concepts of restoration (repairing existing building fabric) and preservation (the prevention of further decay), wherein the most extensive form of reconstruction is creating a replica of a destroyed building.\n\nMore narrowly, such as under the \"Secretary of Interior's Standards\" in the United States, \"reconstruction\" is \"the act or process of depicting, by means of new construction, the form, features, and detailing of a non-surviving site, landscape, building, structure, or object for the purpose of replicating its appearance at a specific period of time and in its historic location.\"\n\nThere may be several reasons for the construction of a building or creation of a replica building or structure.\n\nSometimes, it is the result of destruction of landmark monuments that is experienced as traumatic by inhabitants of the region, such as through war, planning errors and politically motivated destruction, other times, merely the result of natural disaster. Examples include Yongdingmen (former Peking city gate temporarily sacrificed to traffic considerations), St Mark's Campanile in Venice (collapsed in 1902), House of the Blackheads (Riga), Iberian Gate and Chapel and the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour in Moscow (destroyed by order of Joseph Stalin), Dresden Frauenkirche and Semperoper in Dresden (bombed at the end of World War II). A specifically well-known example is the rebuilding of the historic city center of Warsaw after 1945. The Old Town and the Royal Castle had been badly damaged already at the outset of World War II. It was systematically razed to the ground by German troops after the Warsaw Uprising of 1944. The reconstruction of Warsaw's historic center (e.g., St. John's Cathedral, St. Kazimierz Church, Ujazdów Castle) and, e.g., the replica of the Stari Most built in Mostar (Bosnia Herzegovina) have met with official approval by UNESCO.\n\nOther times, reconstructions are made in the case of sites where the historic and cultural significance was not recognized until long after its destruction, common in North America, especially with respect to its early history. Examples include the reconstruction of Colonial Williamsburg in Virginia, the rebuilding of numerous structures in Independence National Historical Park in Philadelphia, and Fort William Historical Park in Ontario, Canada.\n\nCritics of reconstructed and replica buildings see them as a falsification of history and as the creation of a kind of \"architectural ersatz\". Most guidelines for reconstruction (such as the Burra and Venice charters) suggest that new construction be distinguishable from the original, and that reconstruction not be carried out if insufficient information exists to accurately re-create the building's former state.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPlans are also being made for reconstructing the Birgu Clock Tower, which was destroyed in 1942.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3995120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3995120", "title": "Richard McKeon", "text": "Richard McKeon\n\nRichard McKeon (; April 26, 1900 – March 31, 1985) was an American philosopher and longtime professor at the University of Chicago. His ideas formed the basis for the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nMcKeon obtained his undergraduate degree from Columbia University in 1920, graduating at the early age of 20 despite serving briefly in the U.S. Navy during the First World War. Continuing at Columbia, he completed a Master's thesis on Leo Tolstoy, Benedetto Croce, and George Santayana, also in 1920, and a doctoral thesis on Baruch Spinoza in 1922. In his doctoral studies, McKeon's mentors were Frederick J. E. Woodbridge and John Dewey. From Woodbridge, McKeon would later write, he learned that \"what philosophers meant might be comparable or even identical, despite differences in their modes of expression,\" while Dewey taught him how \"to seek the significance of philosophic positions in the problems they were constructed to solve.\" He then studied philosophy in Paris, where his teachers included Étienne Gilson, until he began teaching at Columbia in 1925.\n\nIn 1934, McKeon was appointed visiting professor of History at the University of Chicago, beginning a 40-year association with that university. The following year, he assumed a permanent position as professor of Greek philosophy, a post he filled for twelve years. As professor and, starting in 1940, as Dean of the Humanities, McKeon was instrumental in developing the distinguished general education program of the Hutchins era at the University of Chicago. He later founded Chicago's interdisciplinary Committee on the Analysis of Ideas and Study of Methods. He presided over the Western division of the American Philosophical Association in 1952, and over the International Institute of Philosophy from 1953 to 1957. In 1966, he gave the Paul Carus Lectures. He retired in 1974.\n\nMcKeon was a central intellectual figure in United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization's (UNESCO) early years. He advised UNESCO when (1946–48) it studied the foundations of human rights and of the idea of democracy. These studies supplied much of the material for the drafting of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948. In 1954, under the auspices of UNESCO and the Indian Philosophical Congress, he conducted a series of eighteen roundtable discussions at Indian universities on human relations and international obligations.\n\nMcKeon was a pioneer American scholar of medieval philosophy and the history of science. He was also a prominent figure in the revival of rhetoric as an intellectual art, exploring the often problematic relation between philosophy and rhetoric. He taught Aristotle throughout his career, insisted that his was a Greek Aristotle, not one seen through the eyes of later philosophers writing in Latin. McKeon's interests later shifted from the doctrines of individuals to the dialectic of systems. He investigated pluralism, cultural diversity, and problems of communication and community, at a time when such subjects were less than fashionable.\n\nMcKeon was a founding member of \"The Chicago School\" of literary criticism because of his influence on several of its prominent members (e.g., Wayne Booth). Notwithstanding, McKeon distanced himself from \"The Chicago School,\" which was mainly concerned with Neo-Aristotelian theory. As a pluralist, he wished to disassociate himself from any attempt to propagandize any particular ideology, philosophy, or theorist.\n\nA series of three volumes of \"Selected Writings\" from his widely scattered articles is planned by The University of Chicago Press, of which Vol. 1 (\"Philosophy, Science and Culture,\" 1998) and Vol. 2 (\"Culture, Education and the Arts,\" 2005) have appeared. A collection of essays about McKeon, his pluralist philosophy, and its applications, \"Pluralism in Theory and Practice: Richard McKeon and American Philosophy\" (Eugene Garver and Richard Buchanan, eds.), was written and published by his students and colleagues in 2000.\n\nFormer students of McKeon have praised him and proved influential in their own right, including novelist Robert Coover, authors Susan Sontag and Paul Goodman, theologian John Cobb, philosophers Richard Rorty and Eugene Gendlin, classicist and philosopher Kenneth A. Telford, sociologist and social theorist Donald N. Levine, anthropologist Paul Rabinow, literary theorist Wayne Booth, and poets Tom Mandel and Arnold Klein. He was also father to the literary critic Michael McKeon.\n\nMcKeon published 158 articles over the span of seven decades. The evidence of his pluralist influence is not evident in one particular doctrine or system, but rather in a plurality of all his articles. The scope of his work extends to virtually all philosophies and to the whole cultural history of the Western world while being ordered by semantic schema.\n\nEarly in his academic career, McKeon recognized that truth has no single expression. His understanding of philosophical and historical semantics led him to value philosophies quite different from his own. He viewed the aim of pluralism as not achieving a monolithic identity but rather a diversity of opinion along with mutual tolerance. He characterized his philosophy as a philosophy of culture, but it is also humanistic, a philosophy of communications and the arts, and a philosophical rhetoric.\n\nThe value of a philosophic position is determined by demonstrating its value as an explanation or as an instrument of discovery. The pragmatism of Richard Rorty owes much to McKeon, his teacher. McKeon's operational method is a method of debate which allows one to refine their positions, and in turn, determining what limits their perception of an opponent's argument. Opposition provides a necessary perspective. Notwithstanding, it does not necessarily acquire characteristics from the perspectives with which it is opposed; his philosophy, by nature, resists being pinned down by a single name. It is not meant to affirm the value or credibility of any and all philosophies. Essentially, pluralism is closely related to objectivity; a desired outcome of communication and discussion and a fundamental goal and principle of being human.\n\nHuman beings come together around common issues and/or problems and their different interests and perspectives are often an obstacle to collective action. McKeon's pluralism insists that we understand what a person means by what they say. He believes that proper discussion can lead to agreement, courses of action, and in some cases to mutual understanding, if not, an eventual agreement on issues of ideology or philosophic belief. The work of Jürgen Habermas has close affinities to that of McKeon. Conflicting concepts, interests, and assumptions which concern society form an ecology of culture. Discussion forms an object, which is the transformation of the subject into a product that is held in common as the outcome. McKeon's philosophy is similar to rhetoric as conceived by Aristotle, whereby it has the power to be employed in any given situation as the available means of persuasion.\n\nThe pluralism of perspectives is an essential component to our existence. Nonetheless, the effort to form our individual perspectives through thought and action brings us into touch with being human and being with other individuals. For McKeon, an understanding of pluralism gives us access to whatever may be grasped of being itself.\n\nIn the later stages of McKeon's academic career, he started giving more attention to world problems (see UNESCO). He sought to improve individual disciplines as he felt that they were meant to improve mankind. Refurbishing rhetoric was necessary, he argued, because outlining the needs for, antecedents of, tasks imposed upon, and general character and affiliations of rhetoric would both solve problems and communicate solutions for people everywhere.\n\nAs our age produces new data and experiences, we require a new, expanded rhetoric which takes into account technology. The modern world has progressed quite far but it has not yet found a \"logos\" which is able to make sense of \"techne\" (technology = \"techne\" + \"logos\"). The sciences alone cannot hope to be productive without reincorporating rhetoric otherwise they would only be analytic. For McKeon a new rhetoric is the only means of bridging the gap between arts and sciences. Incorporating rhetoric may permit the further development of new fields of arts and sciences. Rhetoric is able to navigate among the various kinds of arts and sciences providing an opportunity to interrelate them and set new ends which makes use of both spheres. The new rhetoric can order all the other arts and sciences resulting in new discoveries. Mckeon deemed a very forceful rhetorical strategy capable of avoiding relativism as with a very forceful rhetorical strategy a solidarity is gained as people are supposedly unified via a forceful rhetoric. Relativism is avoided according to McKeon via the force of a rhetorical strategy rather than via access to a Platonic realm.\n\nMcKeon borrows traditional rhetorical terms (see Aristotle and Quintilian) to outline the principles of the new rhetoric (creativity/invention; fact/judgment; sequence/consequence; objectivity/intersubjectivity) and then leads them toward brighter avenues of discovery by enlarging Aristotle's traditional rhetorical categories (epideictic, judicial, deliberative) and reintegrating philosophical dialectic. He believes that the materials for doing this are topoi and schemata. The new rhetoric must be universal, objective, reformulate the structure and program of verbal rhetoric and its subjects, and its applications must be focused on the particular now. For McKeon the now is to be 'mined' to contribute to the future resolution of an important problematic. Here again the impact of McKeon on Richard Rorty is evident. Along with John Dewey, McKeon (as Rorty does) deemed philosophy to be basically a problem-solving endeavor. Basically there are two sorts of solidarity sought by those who employ a rhetorical strategy: the solidarity of those who have a goal and the solidarity of those who have 'values'. In other words, solidarity can be sought by those who have no 'values' but rather a rhetoric or by those who have no goal but rather 'values'.\n\nNew data may cause new problems for rhetoric, but it will still continue to produce categories and attempt to find new kinds of topoi which will produce new classifications and create new interdisciplinary fields. Rhetoric helps to figure out how to create these fields, or how to decide which existing fields are appropriate for various data. The new rhetoric will find new kinds of ends, by putting technology in the service of ends in collaboration with other arts rather than allowing technology to lead us to restricted and potentially harmful ends. Whatever 'values' are deemed to lead to the solution of a problem are rhetorically deemed worthy. The problematic is all for McKeon, and rhetoric is supposed to contribute to the solution of the problematic. Clearly rhetoric is unable to come up with a clear plan for a solution, rhetoric being rhetoric. Rather via rhetoric, 'values' are enunciated which are supposed to eventually gain the goal. One who employs rhetoric to gain a goal is basically attempting via brute force to gain an end.\n\nAssuming a goal is gained, a corollary of rhetoric is that those who had the end as an end now abandon the end, eschew the end as a 'value', and now develop new goals and new rhetorics. This is getting way ahead of the game, though, given the track record of rhetoric. Rhetoric has been repeatedly tried down the centuries and has repeatedly been associated with disaster though this is irrelevant for those attempting a rhetoric, as rhetoric is deemed to achieve goals by brute force by those who practice rhetoric, but rhetoric has also failed to achieve ends. Those who have espoused a rhetoric \"have\" achieved valued though precarious positions. The work of Richard McKeon shows that, despite multiple, great failures, even up to the 20th century, rhetoric following Aristotle continued to 'put a spell over people'.\n\nMcKeon was cited extensively in Marshall McLuhan's 1943 doctoral dissertation \"The Place of Thomas Nashe in the Learning of His Time\" (since published as ).\n\nIn Robert Pirsig's 1974 novel \"Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance\", he is the \"Chairman of the Committee\".\n\nPhilosopher Marjorie Grene, writing in her \"Philosophical Autobiography\" about the 1944 termination of her seven-year teaching role at the University of Chicago, stated bluntly (without elaborating) that \"McKeon had me fired.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7045750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7045750", "title": "Russel Ward", "text": "Russel Ward\n\nRussel Braddock Ward AM (9 November 1914 – 13 August 1995) was an Australian historian best known as the author of \"The Australian Legend\" (1958), an examination of the development of the \"Australian character\".\n\nWard studied English at the University of Adelaide and taught at Geelong and Sydney Grammar Schools. He was at the University of New England as a lecturer (1957) and deputy chancellor for eight years. During World War II he served in an army psychological unit.\n\nWard's membership of the Communist Party of Australia (1941 to 1949) brought him to the attention of ASIO; and, in 1984, he appeared before the Hope Royal Commission on Australia's security and intelligence agencies stating that ASIO had harassed him for 40 years.\n\nIn his book, \"The Australian Legend\" (colloquially known as \"Legend\"), Ward argued that the Australian bush was egalitarian and that this influenced Australian culture. Ward's book was both influential and controversial and is grouped among the classic historical references on Australia history. In the 40 years since its first publication, there were three editions and it has been reprinted 15 times. While the images of the Australian character in \"Legend\" may not seem to reflect modern views, it is a book that \"inform[s] Australians about the forces that have shaped them\", and it raises questions that continue to be debated.\n\nHis thesis in \"Legend\" was later challenged by Humphrey McQueen in 1970. It would influence the development of the Australian New Left. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "11898918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11898918", "title": "Santoña Agreement", "text": "Santoña Agreement\n\nThe Santoña Agreement or Pact of Santoña was an agreement signed in the town of Guriezo, near Santoña, Cantabria, on August 24, 1937, during the Spanish Civil War, between politicians close to the Basque Nationalist Party (\"Partido Nacionalista Vasco\" or PNV), fighting with the Republican Side, and Italian forces fighting with the Francoist side.\n\nDuring the Battle of Santander, the Francoist troops pierced through the Republican defense lines. The Republican troops, including the Basque army, retreated to the west in a disorderly fashion, with numerous desertions.\n\nAfter the fall of Bilbao, practically all Basque territory had fallen into Franco's hands. Juan de Ajuriaguerra, then president of the Biscay Regional Council of the Basque Nationalist Party, negotiated with the Italian army command a surrender agreement. The PNV offered to surrender the Basque army in exchange of its prisoners being treated as POWs under Italian command, and PNV members being allowed to go to exile in several British ships. \n\nThe Basque nationalists units of the Republican army in the Basque territory, fighting under the direction of Basque president José Antonio Aguirre, met at Santoña, and surrendered to the Italian forces on August 24. When news of the agreement arrived to his headquarters, Franco cancelled the agreement and ordered the immediate jailing in Santoña's El Dueso prison of the 22,000 soldiers captured. Three months later, around half of them had been freed, the other half remained in prison, and 510 were sentenced to death, a lower reprisal level than registered elsewhere. Ajuriaguerra, the highest rank in the PNV, was released from prison in 1943. \n\nThe agreement was carried out by the PNV behind the Republican government's back. For this reason, it is also known as the Santoña Treason.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "381355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=381355", "title": "Scripophily", "text": "Scripophily\n\nScripophily is the study and collection of stock and bond certificates. A specialized field of numismatics, scripophily is an area of collecting due to both the inherent beauty of some historical documents as well as the interesting historical context of each document. Some stock certificates are excellent examples of engraving. Occasionally, an old stock certificate will be found that still has value as a stock in a successor company.\n\nScripophily, the collecting of old stocks and bonds, gained recognition as a hobby around 1970. The word \"scripophily\" was coined by combining words from English and Greek. The word \"scrip\" represents an ownership right and the word \"philos\" means to love.\n\nToday, there are thousands of collectors worldwide (Scripophilists) in search of scarce, rare, and popular stocks and bonds. Collectors who come from a variety of businesses enjoy this as a hobby, although there are many who also consider scripophily a good investment.\n\nMany collectors like the historical significance of old certificates. Others prefer the beauty of older stocks and bonds that were printed in various colors with fancy artwork and ornate engraving. In recent times, Dot com companies and scandals have been particularly popular issuances.\n\nA recent addition to the hobby is collecting real, live shares issued in one's name. Common companies that issue stock certificates include Walt Disney, Harley-Davidson, McDonald's, Starbucks, Google, Ford Motors, Coca-Cola, and Berkshire Hathaway. Again, framing is a popular option for these shares.\n\nMany autograph collectors are found in this field, looking for signed certificates from John D. Rockefeller of Standard Oil Company, Henry Charles Carey of the Franklin Fire Insurance Company, Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus, Atari Corporation, Eddie Rickenbacker as president of Eastern Air Lines, Tucker Corporation and many others.\n\nA large part of scripophily is the area of financial history. Over the years there have been millions of companies which needed to raise money for their business. In order to do so, the founders of these companies issued securities. Generally speaking, they either issued an equity security in the form of stock or a debt security in the form of a bond. However, there are many varieties of equity and debt instruments. They can be common stock, preferred stock, warrants, cumulative preferred stocks, bonds, zero-coupon bonds, long term bonds (over 15 years) and any combination thereof.\n\nEach certificate is a piece of history about a company and its business. Some companies became major successes, while others were acquired and merged with other companies. Some companies and industries were successful until they were replaced by new technologies. Some companies have been the center of scandal or fraud. The color, paper, signatures, dates, stamps, cancellations, borders, pictures, vignettes, industry, stock broker, name of company, transfer agent, printer, and holder name all add to the uniqueness of the hobby.\n\nA lot of companies either were never successful or went bankrupt, so that their certificates became worthless pieces of paper until the hobby of scripophily began. The mining boom in the 1850s, railroad construction in the 1830s, the oil boom in the 1870s, telegraphy (1850s), the automobile industry beginning around 1900, aviation (around 1910), electric power and banks in the 1930s, the airline wars and mergers in the 1970s, cellular telephones (1980s), long distance telephone service in the 1980s and 1990s, and most recently the Dot-com era and Enron all resulted in historically significant certificates being generated and issued.\n\nToday, more stocks and bonds are issued electronically, meaning fewer paper certificates are issued as a percentage of actual stock issued. The Internet has played a dramatic role in raising awareness of the hobby. A number of websites now exist that sell old stocks and bonds to include scripophily.com and oldstocks.com.\n\nThere are many factors that determine value of a certificate. These include condition, age, historical significance, signatures, rarity, demand for the item, aesthetics, type of company, original face value, bankers associated with issuance, transfer stamps, cancellation markings, issued or unissued, printers, and type of engraving process.\n\nCondition - The grading scale that could be used in stocks and bonds is shown below. Generally speaking, however, the grading is not used in the hobby as strictly as it is in coins and stamps. Most people acquire certificates for the artwork and history.\n\n\nAge - Usually the older the more valuable, but not always.\n\nHistorical significance - What product did the company produce? Was it the first car, airplane, cotton gin, etc. Was the company successful? Was it a fraud? In what era (i.e. during a war, depression, revolution) was the item issued?\n\nSignatures - Did anyone famous or infamous sign the certificate?\n\nCross Collecting Themes - Sports, finance, automotive, and railroad enthusiast interest.\n\nNewsworthy - Some companies that are in the news (good or bad).\n\nCertificate Owner's Name - Was the certificate issued to anyone famous or to a famous company?\n\nRarity - How many of the certificates were issued? How many survived over the years? Is the certificate a low number?\n\nDemand for Item - How many people are trying to collect the same certificate?\n\nAesthetics - How does the certificate look? What is in the vignette? What color of ink was used? Does it have fancy borders or writing on it?\n\nType of company - What type of company was it issued for? Does the industry still exist? Has the industry changed a lot over the years?\n\nOriginal Face Value - How much was the stock or bond issued for? Usually, the larger the original face value, the more collectible it is.\n\nBankers associated with Issuance - Who worked on the fund raising efforts? Was it someone famous or a famous bank? Is the bank still in existence?\n\nTransfer Stamps - Does the certificate have tax stamps on it - imprinted or attached? Are the stamps valuable or unusual?\n\nCancellation Markings - Are the cancellation markings interesting to the item? Do they detract or add to its history and looks?\n\nIssued or Unissued - Was the item issued or unissued? Was the certificate a printer's prototype usually stamped with the word \"specimen\"? Usually, issued certificates are more valuable and desirable.\n\nPrinters - Who printed the certificate? Was it a famous printer?\n\nType of Engraving Process - How was the certificate made? By hand? By wood engraving? Steel engraving? Lithograph? Preprinted form?\n\nPaper - Was the paper use in the printing high quality or low quality? Has it held up over time? Does it have a watermark to prevent counterfeiting?\n\nDue to historical nature of collecting, it makes no sense to track scripophily market using stock market indices like S&P 500 Index, Dow Jones Industrial Average or others. However, apart from real time quotes there is a way to do so half-yearly based on the records of three major European market players. These records cover all relevant auction results for 100 selected items, being significant for the worldwide Scripophily market:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45683757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45683757", "title": "Serbian national identity", "text": "Serbian national identity\n\nSerbia is the nation state of the Serbs, who are Serbia's dominant ethnic group. Serbs are also dominant in Republika Srpska, an entity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the 19th century, the Serbian national identity was manifested, with awareness of history and tradition, medieval heritage, cultural unity, despite Serbs living under different empires. Three elements, together with the legacy of the Nemanjić dynasty, were crucial in forging identity and preservation during foreign domination: the Serbian Orthodox Church, Kosovo Myth, and the Serbian language. The identification with medieval heritage through venerating Serbian saints, together with Serbian epic poetry, had helped develop a national consciousness separate from other Orthodox peoples in the Balkans. The heroic epic cycles inspired the Serbs to revive their heroic past and freedom. In the stories, the hajduks were heroes: they had played the role of the Serbian elite during Ottoman rule, they had defended the Serbs against Ottoman oppression, and prepared for the national liberation and contributed to it in the Serbian Revolution. The symbolical Kosovo Myth became the \"mythomoteur\", signifying martyrdom and defence of Serb honour and Christendom against Turks (Muslims). When the Principality of Serbia gained independence from the Ottoman Empire, Orthodoxy became crucial in defining the national identity, instead of language which was shared by other South Slavs (Croats and Muslims).\n\nThe Cyrillic script is an important symbol of Serbian identity. Under the Constitution of Serbia of 2006, Serbian Cyrillic is the only script in official use; it is also co-official in Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The double-headed eagle and the shield with fire steels are the main heraldic symbols which have represented the national identity of the Serbian people across the centuries.\n\nAn international self-esteem survey conducted on 16,998 people from 53 nations was published by the American Psychological Association in 2005; the questionnaire included views of one's individual personality, that of one's own nation and that of other nations. The research found that Serbia was placed first of the most self-esteemed nation, ahead of the United States (6th), and Japan (last place), and the majority of nations, as well as Serbs themselves, agreed on this. The research also noted that Serbia was among the 10 most collectivist nations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36105131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36105131", "title": "South Australian Archaeology Society", "text": "South Australian Archaeology Society\n\nThe South Australian Archaeology Society is an avocational archaeology organisation operating in South Australia. It evolved from the Society for Underwater Historical Research which was renamed in March 2012 as part of a plan to create an organisation with a broader community base in archaeological practice.\n"}
{"id": "49021319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49021319", "title": "TALE-likes", "text": "TALE-likes\n\nTranscription Activator Like Effector Likes (TALE-likes) are a group of bacterial DNA binding proteins named for the first and still best studied group, the TALEs of \"Xanthomonas\" bacteria. TALEs are important factors in the plant diseases caused by \"Xanthomonas\" bacteria, but are known primarily for their role in biotechnology as programmable DNA binding proteins, particularly in the context of TALE nucleases. TALE-likes have additionally been found in many strains of the \"Ralstonia solanacearum\" bacterial species complex, in \"Burkholderia rhizoxinica\" strain HKI 454, and in two unknown marine bacteria. Whether or not all these proteins from a single phylogenetic grouping is as yet unclear.\n\nThe unifying feature of the TALE-likes are their tandem arrays of DNA binding repeats. These repeats are, with few exceptions, 33-35 amino acids in length, and composed of two alpha-helices on either side of a flexible loop containing the DNA base binding residues and with neighbouring repeats joined by flexible linker loops. Evidence for this common structure comes in part from solved crystal structures of TALEs and a \"Burkholderia\" TALE-like, but also from the conservation of the code that all TALE-likes use to recognise DNA-sequences.\n\nTALEs are the first identified, best-studied and largest group within the TALE-likes. TALEs are found throughout the bacterial genus \"Xanthomonas\", comprising mostly plant pathogens. Those TALEs which have been studied have all been shown to be secreted as part of the Type III secretion system into host plant cells. Once inside the host cell they translocate to the nucleus, bind specific DNA sequences within host promoters and turn on downstream genes. Every part of this process is thought to be conserved across all TALEs. The single meaningful difference between individual TALEs, based on current understanding, is the specific DNA sequence that each TALE binds. TALEs from even closely related strains differ in the composition of repeats that make up their DNA binding domain. Repeat composition determines DNA binding preference. In particular position 13 of each repeat confers the DNA base preference of each repeat. During early research it was noted that almost all the differences between repeats of a single TALE repeat array are found in positions 12 and 13 and this finding led to the hypothesis that these residues determine base preference. In fact repeat positions 12 and 13, referred to jointly as the Repeat Variable Diresidue (RVD) are commonly said to confer base specificity despite clear evidence that position 13 is the base determining residue. In addition to the repeat domain TALEs also possess a number of conserved features in the domains flanking the repeats. These include domains for type-III-secretion, nuclear localization and transcriptional activation. This allows TALEs to carry out their biological role as effector proteins secreted into host plant cells to activate expression of specific host genes.\n\nDiversity and evolution\n\nWhilst the RVD positions are commonly the only variable positions within a single TALE repeat array it should be noted that there are more differences when comparing repeat arrays of different TALEs. The diversity of TALEs across the Xanthomonas genus is considerable, but a particularly striking finding is that the evolutionary history one arrives at by comparing repeat compositions differs from that found when comparing non-repeat sequences. Repeat arrays of TALEs are thought to evolve rapidly, with a number of recombinatorial processes suggested to shape repeat array evolution. Recombination of TALE repeat arrays has been demonstrated in a forced-selection experiment. This evolutionary dynamism is though to be made possible by the very high sequence identity of TALE repeats, which is a unique feature of TALEs as opposed to other TALE-likes.\n\nT-zero\n\nAnother unique feature of TALEs is a set of four repeat structures at the N-terminal flank of the core repeat array. These structures, termed non-canonical or degenerate repeats have been shown to be vital for DNA binding, though all but one do not contact DNA bases and thus make no contribution to sequence preference. The one exception is repeat -1, which encodes a fixed T-zero preference to all TALEs. This means that the target sequences of TALEs are always preceded by a thymine base. This is thought to be common to all TALEs, with the possible exception of TalC from \"Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae\" strain AXO1947.\n\nDiscovery and molecular properties\n\nIt was noted in the 2002 publication of the genome of reference strain \"Ralstonia solanacearum\" GMI1000 that its genome encodes a protein similar to \"Xanthomonas\" TALEs. Based on similar domain structure and repeat sequences it was presumed that this gene and homologs in other \"Ralstonia\" strains would encode proteins with the same molecular properties as TALEs, including sequence-specific DNA binding. In 2013 this was confirmed by two studies. These genes and the proteins they encode are referred to as RipTALs (Ralstonia injected protein TALE-like) in line with the standard nomenclature of Ralstonia effectors. Whilst the DNA binding code of the core repeats is conserved with TALEs, RipTALs do not share the T-zero preference, instead they have a strict G-zero requirement. In addition repeats within a single RipTAL repeat array have multiple sequence differences beyond the RVD positions, unlike the near-identical repeats of TALEs.\n\nBiological role\n\nSeveral lines of evidence support the idea that RipTALs function as effector proteins, promoting bacterial growth or disease by manipulating the expression of plant genes. They are secreted into plant cells by the Type III secretion system, which is the main delivery system for effector proteins. They are able to function as sequence-specific transcription factors in plant cells. In addition a strain lacking its RipTAL was shown to grow slower inside eggplant leaf tissue than the wild type. Furthermore, a study based on DNA polymorphisms in \"ripTAL\" repeat domain sequences and host plants found a statistically significant connection between host plant and repeat domain variants. This is expected if the RipTALs of different strains are adapted to target genes in specific host plants. Despite this to date no target genes have been identified for any RipTAL.\n\nDiscovery\n\nThe publication of the genome of bacterial strain \"Bukrholderia rhizoxinica\" HKI 454, in 2011 led to the discovery of a set of TALE-like genes that differed considerably in nature from the TALEs and RipTALS. The proteins encoded by these genes were studied for their DNA binding properties by two groups independently and named the Bats (Burkholderia TALE-likes ) or BurrH. This research showed that the repeat units of the \"Burkholderia\" TALE-likes bind DNA with the same code as TALEs, governed by position 13 of each repeat. There are, however, a number of differences.\n\nBiological role\n\n\"Burkholderia\" TALE-likes are composed almost entirely of repeats, lacking the large non-repetitive domains found flanking the repeats in TALEs and RpTALs. Those domains are key to the functions of TALEs and RipTALs allowing them to infiltrate the plant nucleus and turn on gene expression. It is therefore currently unclear what the biological roles of \"Burkholderia\" TALE-likes are. What is clear is that they are not effector proteins secreted into plant cells to act as transcription factors, the biological role of TALEs and RipTALs. It is not unexpected that they may differ in biological roles from TALEs and RipTALs since the life style of the bacterium they derive from is very unlike that of TALE and RipTAL bearing bacteria. \"B. rhizoxinica\" is an endosymbiont, living inside a fungus, \"Rhizopus microsporus\", a plant pathogen. The same fungus is also an opportunistic human pathogen in immuno-compromised patients, but whereas \"B. rhizoxinica\" is necessary for pathogenicity on plant hosts it is irrelevant to human infection. It is unclear whether the \"Burkholderia\" TALE-likes are ever secreted either into the fungus, let alone into host plants.\nUses in Biotechnology\n\nAs noted in the publications on \"Burkholderia\" TALE-likes there may be some advantages to using these proteins as a scaffold for programmable DNA-binding proteins to function as transcription factors or designer-nucleases, compared to TALEs. These advantages are a shorter repeat size, more compact domain structure (no large non-repeat domains), greater repeat sequence diversity enabling the use of PCR on the genes encoding them and making them less vulnerable to recombinatorial repeat loss. In addition Burkholderia TALE-likes have no T-zero requirement relaxing the constraints on DNA target selection. However, to uses of Burkholderia TALE-likes as programmable DNA binding proteins have been published, outside of the original characterization publications.\n\nDiscovery\n\nIn 2007 the results of a sweep of the world's oceans by the J. Craig Venter Institute were made publicly available. The paper in 2014 on \"Burkholderia\" TALE-likes was also the first to report that two entries from that database resembled TALE-likes, based on sequence similarity. These were further characterized and assessed for their DNA-binding potential in 2015. The repeat units encoded by these sequences were found to mediate DNA binding with base preference matching the TALE code, and judged likely to form structures nearly identical to Bat1 repeats based on molecular dynamics simulations. The proteins encoded by these DNA sequences were therefore designated Marine Organism TALE-likes (MOrTLs) 1 and 2.\n\nEvolutionary relationship to other TALE-likes\n\nWhilst repeats of MOrTL1 and 2 both conform structurally and functionally to the TALE-like norm, they differ considerably at the sequence level both from all other TALE-likes and from one another. It is not known whether they are truly homologous to the other TALE-likes, and thus constitute together with the TALEs, RipTALs and Bats a true protein-family. Alternatively they may have evolved independently. It is particularly difficult to judge the relationship to the other TALE-likes because almost nothing is known of the organisms that MOrTL1 and MOrTL2 come from. It is known only that they were found in two separate sea-water samples from the Gulf of Mexico and are likely to be bacteria based on size-exclusion before DNA sequencing.\n"}
{"id": "28131408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28131408", "title": "Tonkawa massacre", "text": "Tonkawa massacre\n\nThe Tonkawa massacre (October 23–24, 1862) occurred after an attack at the Confederate held Wichita Agency, located at Fort Sill near Anadarko in Oklahoma, when a force of pro-Union tribes attacked the agency, home to 300 members of the Tonkawa, a tribe sympathetic to the Confederacy. During the attack on the Confederate held agency, the Confederate Indian agent Matthew Leeper and several other whites were killed. In response to this attack the Tonkawa fled southward toward Confederate held Fort Arbuckle, before they could reach the safety of the fort they were caught on October 24. In the resulting massacre, the estimates of Tonkawa dead are 137 men, women and children among them Chief Ha-shu-ka-na (\"Can't Kill Him\"), the Tonkawa were roasted alive and eaten by the ruthless Comanche. There are varying accounts of the tribes involved in the massacre with the Osage, Shawnee, Caddo, Comanche, Kiowa, Wichita and Seminole being named in some accounts.\n\nThe reasons for the attack are varied with some suggesting that the Tonkawa had killed and eaten two Shawnees, and that they were responsible for the death and dismemberment of a young Caddo boy, as the Tonkawa were rumored to be cannibalistic. Other accounts name the main reason as their being allied to the southern cause. The relations between the Tonkawa and neighboring tribes had been antagonistic for years for a variety of reasons including the Tonkawa acting as scouts for the Texas Rangers, and fighting alongside them in actions against hostile tribes including the Comanche.\n\nMany of the survivors fled to Confederate held Fort Arbuckle after the massacre, base of the pro-Confederate Chickasaw Battalion, then made their way to Confederate-held, Fort Belknap in Texas in 1863. The massacre completely demoralized and fractured the remnants of the tribe, who remained without a leader and lived in squalor by Fort Belknap. The remnants of the tribe then lived near Fort Griffin in Texas until 1884. They were then forced by the government to relocate temporarily to the Sac-Fox agency and then in the spring of 1885 to Fort Oakland, occupied by Chief Joseph's Band of Nez Perce from 1878 to 1885. In 1891, 73 members of the Tonkawa were allocated of federal trust land, with an additional in individual allotments, near the former Fort Oakland, which is today Tonkawa, Oklahoma, west of Ponca City. The population on the reservation is 537 with 481 being officially on the tribal rolls.\n\n"}
{"id": "10325000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10325000", "title": "Unity of opposites", "text": "Unity of opposites\n\nThe unity of opposites is the central category of dialectics, said to be related to the notion of non-duality in a deep sense. It defines a situation in which the existence or identity of a thing (or situation) depends on the co-existence of at least two conditions which are opposite to each other, yet dependent on each other and presupposing each other, within a field of tension. \n\nFirst suggested by Heraclitus (c. 535 – c. 475 BC), a pre-Socratic Greek philosopher, philosophers had for some time been contemplating the notion of opposites. Anaximander posited that every element was an opposite, or connected to an opposite (water is cold, fire is hot). Thus, the material world was composed by some indefinite, boundless apeiron from which arose the elements (earth, air, fire, water) and pairs of opposites (hot/cold, wet/dry). There was, according to Anaximander, a continual war of opposites.\n\nAnaximenes of Miletus, a student and successor of Anaximander, replaced this indefinite, boundless arche with air, a known element with neutral properties. According to Anaximenes, there was not so much a war of opposites, as a continuum of change.\n\nHeraclitus, however, did not accept the milesian monism and replaced their underlying material arche with a single, divine law of the universe, which he called Logos. The universe of Heraclitus is in constant change, but also remaining the same. That is to say, an object moves from point A to point B, thus creating a change, but the underlying law remains the same. Thus, a unity of opposites is present in the universe as difference and sameness. This is a rather broad example though. For a more detailed example we may turn to an aphorism of Heraclitus:\n\nThe road up and the road down are the same thing. (Hippolytus, \"Refutations\" 9.10.3)\n\nThis is an example of a compresent unity of opposites. For, at the same time, this slanted road has the opposite qualities of ascent and descent. According to Heraclitus, everything is in constant flux, and every changing object co-instantiates at least one pair of opposites (though not necessarily simultaneously) and every pair of opposites is co-instantiated in at least one object. \n\nHeraclitus also uses the succession of opposites as a base for change:\n\nCold things grow hot, a hot thing cold, a moist thing withers, a parched thing is wetted. (DK B126)\n\nAs a single object persists through opposite properties, this object undergoes change.\n\nDialecticians claim that unity or identity of opposites can exist in reality or in thought. If the opposites were completely balanced, the result would be stasis, but often it is implied that one of the pairs of opposites is larger, stronger or more powerful than the other, such that over time, one of the opposed conditions prevails over the other. Yet rather than 'stasis' the identity of opposites, there being unity within their duality, is taken to be the instance of their very manifestation, the unity between them being the essential principle of making any particular opposite in question extant as either opposing force. For example 'upward' cannot exist unless there is a 'downward', they are opposites but they co-substantiate one another, their unity is that either one exists because the opposite is necessary for the existence of the other, one manifests immediately with the other. Hot would not be hot without cold, due to there being no contrast by which to define it as 'hot' relative to any other condition, it would not and could not have identity whatsoever if not for its very opposite that makes the necessary prerequisite existence for the opposing condition to be. This is the oneness, unity, principle to the very existence of any opposite. Either one's identity is the contra-posing principle itself, necessitating the other. The criteria for what is opposite is therefore something \"a priori\". \n\nIn his criticism of Immanuel Kant, the German philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel who tried to systematise dialectical understandings thus wrote: \n\nIn his philosophy, Hegel ventured to describe quite a few cases of \"unity of opposites\", including the concepts of Finite and Infinite, Force and Matter, Identity and Difference, Positive and Negative, Form and Content, Chance and Necessity, Cause and effect, Freedom and Necessity, Subjectivity and Objectivity, Means and Ends, Subject and Object, and Abstract and Concrete. It is also considered to be integral to Marxist philosophy of nature and is discussed in Friedrich Engels' \"Dialectics of Nature\".\n\n\"Coincidentia oppositorum\" is a Latin phrase meaning coincidence of opposites. It is a neoplatonic term attributed to 15th century German polymath Nicholas of Cusa in his essay, \"De Docta Ignorantia\" (1440). Mircea Eliade, a 20th-century historian of religion, used the term extensively in his essays about myth and ritual, describing the \"coincidentia oppositorum\" as \"the mythical pattern\". Psychiatrist Carl Jung, the philosopher and Islamic Studies professor Henry Corbin as well as Jewish philosophers Gershom Scholem and Abraham Joshua Heschel also used the term. \nIn alchemy, \"coincidentia oppositorum\" is a synonym for \"coniunctio\". For example, Michael Maier stresses that the union of opposites is the aim of the alchemical work. Or, according to Paracelsus' pupil, Gerhard Dorn, the highest grade of the alchemical \"coniunctio\" consisted in the union of the total man with the \"unus mundus\" (\"one world\"). \n\nThe term is also used in describing a revelation of the oneness of things previously believed to be different. Such insight into the unity of things is a kind of transcendence, and is found in various mystical traditions. The idea occurs in the traditions of Tantric Hinduism and Buddhism, in German mysticism, Taoism, Zen and Sufism, among others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40593109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40593109", "title": "William Buller Fagg", "text": "William Buller Fagg\n\nWilliam Buller Fagg (28 April 1914 – 10 July 1992) was the Keeper of the Department of Anthropology at the British Museum (1969–1974) and pioneering historian of Yoruban and Nigerian art, with a particular focus on the art of Benin.\n\nWilliam Fagg was born in Upper Norwood, London to William Percy Fagg (d.1939), an antiquarian bookseller, and his wife Lilian Fagg (née Buller). His brother was the British archaeologist and museum curator Bernard Evelyn Buller Fagg.\n\nFagg was educated at Dulwich College before entering Magdalene College, Cambridge to study Classics, winning prizes for Latin hexameters and Latin epigrams. After graduating in 1936, the next year he went on to take a second degree in Archaeology and Anthropology at the University of Cambridge.\n\nFagg had a long and distinguished career at the British Museum. In 1938, he was appointed the Assistant Keeper of Anthropology and continued in this post until 1955, when he became the Deputy Keeper of Anthropology and, from 1969 to 1973, he was the Keeper of the Department of Ethnography. In 1969, he oversaw the move of the Department of Ethnography from the British Museum to Burlington Gardens where it was known as the Museum of Mankind. Between 1942–1945, Fagg had been seconded to the Industries and Manufactures Department of the Board of Trade.\n\nOn his return to the British Museum after the end of the War, he was given curatorial responsibility for the African collections. Fagg spent a considerable amount of time engaged in fieldwork in Africa: Zaire 1949–1950; Nigeria 1953, 1958–1959, 1971, 1981; Cameroon 1966; Mali 1969. His brother, Bernard Fagg, had been working in Nigeria since 1939 and in 1952 he had established the first national museum in Jos, Nigeria, becoming the head of this institution in 1957 until Nigerian Independence. William Fagg purchased Benin art for the newly founded Lagos museum during his 1958–1959 trip to Nigeria. He donated his photographic negatives and related documentation to the Royal Anthropological Institute shortly before his death so they could be used for research purposes by others.\n\nWilliam Fagg curated a number of important exhibitions, with a particular focus on Nigerian art. In 1960, he organised an exhibition in London to mark Nigerian Independence for the Art Council, UK. This exhibition travelled to Manchester, Bristol, Munich and Basle. It also led him to write the book ’Nigerian Images’ (1963) for which he won the Amaury Talbot Prize for African Anthropology. He curated exhibitions on Nigerian art at the First World Congress of Black Arts and Cultures in 1966 held in Dakar, Senegal. For his writings associated with this work he won the Grand Prize for the best work on African art and led to his being granted the CMG in 1967. After the move of the British Museum’s Ethnographic collections to Burlington Gardens, Fagg curated many changing exhibitions with the first showcasing the museum’s collection of Benin art within a partial reconstruction of the Benin Palace.\n\nHe was Consulting Fellow in African Art for the Museum of Primitive Art in New York (now part of the Metropolitan Museum) from 1957–1970. After retirement, he was the tribal art consultant for Christie’s in London until 1990.\n\nA William Fagg lecture is held annually at the British Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54017541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54017541", "title": "William Chaney", "text": "William Chaney\n\nWilliam Albert \"Bill\" Chaney (December 23, 1922 – March 13, 2013) was an American historian of Anglo-Saxon England who spent his career, from 1952 until his death, teaching at Lawrence University. At various times, he held the George McKendree Steele endowed chair (1962–99) and the chair of the history department (1968–71).\n\nChaney was born in Lodi, California, on December 23, 1922. He descended from what one colleague said to be \"southerners who had consistently backed the wrong horse in the great conflicts of American history\", and he would pretend to shiver and look the other way whenever he walked by a statue of General Sherman on the Lawrence campus. After matriculating at the College of the Pacific he transferred to the University of California, Berkeley. There he completed both his bachelor of arts, and, in 1952 and under Ernst Kantorowicz's advisement, his Ph.D. He was made a fellow in the Harvard Society of Fellows early in the 1950s, and in 1966–1967 a grantee in the American Council of Learned Societies.\n\nChaney spent his entire career at Lawrence University in Appleton, Wisconsin, arriving at then Lawrence College in 1952. His research interest in Anglo-Saxon England culminated in his 1970 book \"The Cult of Kingship in Anglo-Saxon England: The Transition from Paganism to Christianity\", and the widely cited 1962 article \"Grendel and the Gifstol: a Legal View of Monsters\".\n\nFrom 1952 to 1999 Chaney held the George McKendree Steele endowed chair in history, and from 1968 to 1971 he was the chair of the history department. He was a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, and affiliated with the American Historical Association, the Modern Language Association, the American Society of Church History, the Conference on British Studies, the American Association of University Professors, and Phi Beta Kappa.\n\nChaney died on March 13, 2013, at his home in Appleton, Wisconsin.\n\n\n"}
