{"id": "42073215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42073215", "title": "Ability to benefit", "text": "Ability to benefit\n\nAbility to benefit (ATB) is a term used in the context of post-secondary education in the United States to refer to students who have sufficient competency to benefit from post-secondary education but do not have a high school diploma or the Certificate of High School Equivalency. ATB, as assessed by government-approved tests, is required for receiving financial aid by most US public colleges that admit students without a high school diploma or the certificate of equivalency. Until July 2012, such students could also receive student loans and grants from the US government if they had passed an approved ATB examination. However, the provision was dropped as part of the cuts to the Federal budget for fiscal year 2012.\n\nIn some US states such as California, even when such students are not requesting financial aid, private post-secondary institutions are \"required, prior to executing an enrollment agreement with an ATB student, to have the student take and pass an independently administered examination from the list of examinations prescribed by the United States Department of Education\".\n\nAccording to \"Inside Higher Ed\", in 2012 about 82,000 students at US public two-year colleges had been admitted under ATB (approximately 1% of the total community college population) although not all of them were receiving financial aid. A longitudinal study from the National Center for Education Statistics found that only 33% of students admitted under ATB in 2003 had earned a college credential by 2009. Evidence also suggested that they were more likely to default on student loans.\n\nThe US Government Accountability Office expressed concern, in 2009, that some for-profit colleges were helping students to cheat on the ATB examination or were falsifying the results in order for their students to receive Federal financial aid. Students who had received a Federal direct loan or a Federal Family Education Loan via ATB prior to 2012 can apply to have the loan forgiven or discharged if they can demonstrate that their school falsely certified their ability to benefit from its training.\n\n"}
{"id": "32458806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32458806", "title": "Albert Sidney Beckham", "text": "Albert Sidney Beckham\n\nAlbert Sidney Beckham (1897–1964) was a pioneering African American psychologist. He specialized in educational psychology and made significant contributions to the base of knowledge about the racial intelligence score disparity. Additionally, he was a professor at Wilberforce University and Howard University and served the Chicago school district as the first African American school psychologist.\n\nBeckham was born on September 21, 1897, in Camden, South Carolina, to Elizabeth and Calvin Beckham. His father was a local merchant and businessman. From early on his parents put great emphasis on and were very supportive of his education. They sent him to Christian schools and provided him with tutors. Given the government sanctioned segregation at the time, the type of proactive stance towards education that Beckham’s parents took was really the only way for an African American to get a quality education. The battle with educational segregation only worsened when Beckham began to look towards higher education. College education in the south was almost not an option for African Americans at this time, moving north was a necessity. In 1915, he graduated from Lincoln University in Chester County, Pennsylvania, with a bachelor's degree, then received a second bachelor's degree from Ohio State University in 1916. He received his master's degree in Psychology in 1917 and subsequently his PhD in psychology from New York University. Beckham eventually earned a Ph.D. in educational psychology and began working for the Institute for Juvenile Research. It was working at the institute that he met his wife, Ruth Howard. She, too, was a psychologist working at the institute.\n\nAt the age of 15, Beckham enrolled at Lincoln University in Pennsylvania. At Lincoln, Beckham studied alongside Francis Sumner, graduating with a bachelor's degree in psychology in 1915. Moving quickly through academic paths that had not been traveled by many African Americans before him, Beckham enrolled in Ohio State University where he earned a second bachelor's degree in 1916 and then a master's degree in psychology the following year. At this point, Beckham’s education was interrupted by his call to serve his country. From 1917 until 1920, Beckham worked as a professor at Wilberforce University at the direction of U.S. armed forces. In 1921, after concluding his service, Beckham enrolled at Columbia University to pursue a doctorate degree in psychology. After taking some courses at Columbia, Beckham transferred to New York University because it offered better financial aid. Beckham continued his studies at NYU until 1924, when he accepted a position as a professor at Howard University. In 1928, Beckham returned to NYU and continued his doctorate work. In 1930, Beckham was awarded a Ph.D. in educational psychology from New York University’s School of Education.\n\nBeckham became a professor of psychology, somewhat unintentionally, at the age of twenty. Beckham did not seek out his first teaching job. Immediately after completing his master's degree, Beckham enlisted in the Air Force with aspirations to be a pilot in World War I. Beckham’s application came during a time of serious segregation within the armed forces. The Air Force rejected Beckham’s application; it would be decades before an African American became an Air Force pilot. After persistent inquiry, the Air Force told Beckham that he could best serve his country by being a War Professor of Psychology at Wilberforce University. Beckham remained at Wilberforce, a private university that served African Americans, from 1917 until 1920. From 1920 until 1924, Beckham studied at Columbia University and New York University. During this time he was the editor of a newspaper called the New York City Dispatch, he also worked closely with the New York public schools.\n\nIn 1924, Beckham took a position as the first psychology professor at Howard University. He began as an instructor but later became an assistant professor, he taught a wide variety of psychology courses at Howard. Although his contributions as a professor were impressive, Beckham’s greatest impact on the Howard psychology department was the laboratory he founded. This laboratory was the first of its kind at a Black university. One of the first and most prominent courses of study in the laboratory regarded intelligence differences in children of different ethnicities. As mainstream psychology made claims about the intellectual inferiority of African American children, Beckham’s lab conducted research to refute these studies. The laboratory was also used for individual consultations with the school districts in Washington D.C. Beckham’s work with the school districts helped to establish a relationship between Howard and the surrounding public schools. In 1928, Beckham left Howard to continue his doctorate studies. After earning his doctorate, Beckham took a job the Institute for Juvenile Research, which was devoted to researching and resolving juvenile delinquency. In the time that he was at the institute, Beckham served as a Fellow of the National Committee for Mental Health and as a Senior Assistant Research Psychologist. The organization provided delinquent children with psychologists, psychiatrists, and social workers. It was also used to administer tests, provide training for teachers, and evaluate other clinics.\n\nDue to pay cuts that were the result of the Great Depression, Beckham left his job at the institute in 1935. The job search proved difficult. Beckham applied to work for the Chicago Board of Education, but there were not many jobs at the time. Additionally, being African American made finding work more difficult. Beckham was the first choice for the board of education, but he was not actually hired until the National Urban League pressured the city to hire him. The director of the board sent him to work at DuSable High School in Chicago. Beckham became the school psychologist at DuSable, establishing one of the first public school psychological clinics. DuSable served primarily African American students. At DuSable Beckham did unprecedented work involving students, families, and the community. He created a clinic for parents to give them support in raising their adolescents and created programs that involved local churches. In this way he developed a strong community at DuSable, a high school that served a large low-income housing development. Beckham worked for the board of education until his death in 1964 and conducted a great deal of research simultaneously. Additionally, Beckham and his wife, Ruth Howard, had a private practice called the Center for Psychological Services throughout most of their married life.\n\nBeckham’s scholarly work largely focused on education; however, he also conducted studies on topics such as albinism, narcolepsy, race attitudes, and life satisfaction Despite never holding a position at a university after completing his doctorate, Beckham was a prolific researcher.\n\nOne of Beckham’s areas of interest was intelligence testing. This came out of necessity because mainstream psychology was claiming that African Americans were intellectually inferior due to the disparities in intelligence test scores in African American and Caucasian children. Beckham’s generation of African American psychologists had a different relationship to the intelligence test than post-civil rights era psychologists. Beckham and his colleagues saw the intelligence test as a tool that, if used correctly, could debunk the myth of Black inferiority. They did not question the test itself, rather they focused on matching background variables and building rapport between the testers and those taking the test. The majority of the researchers in this time, Beckham included, argued that environmental differences were the cause of the intelligence score disparities. Some of Beckham’s studies regarding intelligence testing include: “The intelligence of a Negro high school population in a northern city” (1939) and “A study of the intelligence of different social-economic status in typical metropolitan areas” (1933). The 1933 study showed that intelligence scores and social-economic status were significantly correlated. This was an important finding as it detracted support from the theory that African Americans were intellectually inferior. One of Beckham’s most influential studies regarded intelligence outside of an educational framework. “Minimum intelligence levels for several occupations” (1930) was a study that looked at the IQ score needed to fulfill certain menial labor positions. Beckham looked at the abilities of people with mental ages from five to twelve and assessed their ability to fulfill certain tasks. For example, Beckham found that boys with a mental age of five could handle cinders and garbage, while boys with a mental age of twelve could be lawn care takers. Beckham executed this by having employers rate their employees and then giving the employees the Stanford Binet intelligence inventory. He found that employees who were rated ‘excellent’ had, on average, a higher mental age. From this Beckham concluded that a more intelligent worker is a better worker. Additionally, he concluded that a mental age of eight is sufficient for jobs with “considerable” amounts of responsibility and that people with a mental age of ten or greater were equipped to handle intelligent responsibility. The high value that this study places on the Stanford Binet intelligence inventory is very indicative of the attitudes of the era in which it was written. The publication of this work was very pertinent because employers were beginning to put more of an emphasis on selecting employees based on intelligence level. This study was published in the Personnel Journal and was used to train the mentally handicapped.\n\nBeckham was interested in specific medical conditions in African American populations. “Albinism in Negro children” (1946) and “Narcolepsy among Negros” explored these topics.\n\nBeckham studied race and the effects of racism. His 1929 study “Is the Negro happy?” was designed to measure the life satisfaction of African Americans despite racism, segregation, and discrimination. Beckham asked three questions: “Is the Negro happy?”, “Are you happy as a Negro?”, and “Should the Negro be happy?”. He worded the questions in exactly this manner with no disambiguation because he felt that, although there would be different interpretations of these questions, the answers given would reflect a general emotion and attitude. Beckham surveyed 3,443 African-American people who he grouped by occupation: college students, doctors, lawyers, unskilled laborers, preachers, housewives, teachers, and musicians. Overall the study showed that, while the majority of African Americans reported being happy, a majority also reported that African Americans are not and should not be happy. These answers were different within the occupational groups though; in many cases the majority of one group would answer in the opposite way of the majority of another group. Beckham took the overall responses as an indication that African Americans were in the habit of simulating happiness for themselves despite an awareness of their dismal situations, he called this the Negro complex. The conclusions Beckham draws from this study are interesting, however, it is important to recognize that the questions that he asked were not very clear. The way in which he framed these questions leaves them up to a great deal of interpretation. While this was a somewhat intentional, the fact that they are so open-ended means that any conclusions drawn from the answers are very loose. Additionally, in his final analysis, Beckham looks at the total numbers rather than looking proportionately at the occupational groups. This is one way to measure the data, but it would be more accurate to take the proportions into consideration because the groups are uneven in number. Using proportions would give a better indication of African Americans as a whole. While this study was flawed, the concept of examining the psychological impacts of oppression was new and valuable. Beckham did other such studies. “A study of race attitudes in Negro children of adolescent age” (1934) looked at racial attitudes in a number of different contexts. It looked at the way African American children regarded people of other races and also the way racial prejudice impacted the children. Within these questions, the study examined how these children’s attitudes differed based on where they lived and whether they had behavioral problems.\n\nBeckham studied abnormality in children and adolescents. Both as a school psychologist and a psychologist at the Institute for Juvenile Research Beckham saw a lot of abnormality in his career.\n\nBeckham was a pioneer in the field of Black psychology. He was among the first African Americans to earn a PhD in psychology and was involved in the founding and ground-level of unprecedented programs for African Americans. He taught university students at Wilberforce University and Howard University and provided guidance to thousands of students in the Chicago public school system. His greatest research achievements fall under the headings of intelligence and behavioral disorders. In these fields Beckham provided alternative theories to mainstream psychology’s suggestions that African Americans were inherently deficient.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54755031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54755031", "title": "Amabel Anderson Arnold", "text": "Amabel Anderson Arnold\n\nAmabel Anderson Arnold LL.M. (May 31, 1883 – February 18, 1936) was an American lawyer and law professor who organized the Woman's State Bar Association of Missouri, the first association of women lawyers in the world.\n\nAmabel Anderson was born in Chatham, Ontario, on May 31, 1883. Her father was a natural-born United States citizen and her mother belonged to the Burgess family, of English ancestry, known among the most progressive people of Yarmouth, Nova Scotia - well educated, prosperous and of sterling quality. She had one brother, Charles.\n\nThe Andersons moved to London, Ontario where Anderson attended her first two years of primary education. Summers and the Christmas seasons were spent at their mother's old home near Aylmer, Ontario. Later the family moved to Michigan, where public school wasn't as progressive as it had been in Canada. Anderson managed to pass her high school entrance examination thanks to the private tutoring of a retired teacher she called \"School Madam\".\n\nAnderson entered high school at 12 years old at the third district school in Tuscola County, Michigan. The Anderson family had to move again when Anderson's father was transferred to Bay City, Michigan, where Anderson spent the years between 14 and 20; at this time, attending high school, she studied music and sketching. Without completing high school, at 16, she started to teach in the lower grades and at the same time she was actively engaged in church and club work, on several occasions organizing and promoting literary and physical culture clubs.\n\nThe chance to attend a course at Ferris Normal School, pushed her to complete her high-school course. She continued to attend the Ferris Normal School, and became the principal of a ten-grade school. She continued to teach and study, and completed the normal course and also a course in painting.\n\nAfter some years spent as a teacher, in 1910 Anderson entered the City College of Law and Finance, attending the night courses. While attending the College, she was the only woman student in her class. She successfully completed three years of law school, two of courses and one of lectures. The fourth year, the work field, she enrolled at Benton College of Law, again the only woman. Having attended two law schools, she graduated from both: she received an LL.M. degree from Benton College of Law on June 6, 1912 and a LL.B. from City College of Law and Finance on June 11, 1912.\n\nIn 1907 Anderson moved to St. Louis and she opened and managed for 6 years the Arnold Preparatory School in the Benoist Building. They enrolled many men, and some women, whose early education had been neglected. Anderson and her assistants tutored them privately and placed them in nearly every department of every college and university in St. Louis and in other cities. Anderson built for herself a lasting name as a competent and modern teacher.\n\nIn 1908, while operating her own school, Anderson also accepted a position as instructor of Latin in the Dental Department of the Saint Louis University, the only woman in the faculty. She was also professor of medical botany at the American Medical College, again the only woman instructor.\n\nIn 1912 Anderson organized the Women's National College Club, with headquarters in St. Louis, serving as its national president. Her idea was to expanding her school work and prepare to merge her preparatory school to some larger institution.\n\nOn July 15, 1912, Anderson was among the St. Louis women attorneys who organized the Woman's State Bar Association of Missouri, the first association of women lawyers in the world. Caroline G. Thummel was the President.\n\nIn September 1913, Anderson was elected director of the Woman's Department at the University of Chicago Law School, the first woman holding such office in the United States.\n\nIn 1914 Anderson was appointed on the regular faculty of the City College of Law and Finance as lecturer and instructor in the chair of International Law, again, the only woman holding such a position in St. Louis.\n\nAnderson was an advocate of the Equal Rights Amendment and Women's suffrage in the United States. She was a charter member of the Equal Suffrage League (St. Louis), and sent out the first invitations to business women, asking them to meet to consider the organization of a league to further suffrage.\n\nAnderson married W. E. Arnold, a medical student at the American Medical College. They divorced December 2, 1912, and she went back to use her maiden name.\n\nAnderson is buried at Graceland Cemetery, Chicago.\n"}
{"id": "55810082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55810082", "title": "Bodo Schlegelmilch", "text": "Bodo Schlegelmilch\n\nBodo B. Schlegelmilch is Chair of the Association of MBAs (AMBA) and Professor and Chair of the Institute for International Marketing at WU, Vienna University of Economics and Business, Vienna, Austria. He also serves on the Executive Board of the American Chamber of Commerce in Austria and the Board of Trustees at the Academy of Marketing Science. Schlegelmilch has been awarded Fellowships from the Academy of International Business, the Academy of Marketing Science and the Chartered Institute of Marketing.\n\nSchlegelmilch obtained his bachelor's degree at the University of Applied Sciences in Cologne, his master's degree, Ph.D. and D.Litt. from the University of Manchester and an honorary Ph.D. from Thammasat University in Bangkok. He served as founding Dean of the WU Executive Academy at the Vienna University of Economics and Business, and Editor in Chief of the American Marketing Association's \"Journal of International Marketing\".\n\nStarting at Deutsche Bank and Procter & Gamble, he continued his career at the University of Edinburgh and the University of California, Berkeley. Appointments as British Rail Chair of Marketing at the University of Wales and Professor of International Business at Thunderbird School of Global Management followed.\n\nSchlegelmilch has been listed among the world's most prolific authors of international marketing. He has published books on different marketing and management topics, including two widely noted textbooks: \n\n\nHis research spans international marketing strategy, corporate social responsibility and cultural differences and has been published in a variety of academic journals (e.g. Strategic Management Journal, Journal of International Business Studies and Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science).\n"}
{"id": "18510052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18510052", "title": "California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology", "text": "California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology\n\nThe California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology (Calit2, previously Cal(IT)), also referred to as the Qualcomm Institute at its San Diego branch, is a $400 million academic research institution jointly run by the University of California San Diego (UCSD) and the University of California, Irvine (UCI). Calit2 was established in 2000 as one of the four UC Gray Davis Institutes for Science and Innovation. As a multidisciplinary research institution, it is conducting research discovering new ways in which emerging technologies can improve the state's economy and citizens' quality of life. Keeping in mind its goal of addressing large-scale societal issues, Calit2 extends beyond education and research by also focusing on the development and deployment of prototype infrastructure for testing new solutions in real world environments. Calit2 also provides an academic research environment in which students can work alongside industry professionals to take part in conducting research and prototyping and testing new technologies.\n\nSince 2008, Calit2 has implemented its strategic plan, Path Forward. The plan is based on the four core enabling technologies of wireless telecommunications, phototonics, nanotechnology and micro-electro-mechanicals systems (MEMS), and cyber space in order to digitally transform applications in culture, health, energy, and the environment. Partnering with companies such as Broadcom, Cisco Systems, Hitachi, and Google Earth, Calit2 has collaborated with more than 250 industry names on sponsored research, technology licensing, and spinoffs based on Calit2 inventions. The State of California provided a $100 million grant to Calit2 to support the design and construction of both campus buildings and facilities. Calit2 also receives support from other funding agencies such as the National Science Foundation, National Institutes of Health, CalTrans, and the UC Discovery Program.\n\nCalit2 is home to scientific, artistic, and technological innovators. Leadership is divided into four main groups: Directors, Divisional Councils, Governing Board, and the Advisory Board. Notable and distinguished members of the advisory board include: \n\nCalit2 currently has two buildings, one located at UC San Diego, and another at UC Irvine. The two Calit2 facilities have unique capabilities such as clean rooms, MEMS labs, immersive virtual reality facilities, and a digital cinema theater. Another important feature of these buildings is its shared laboratory space that is both flexible and reconfigurable as the space can be reassigned or rearranged when new projects emerge.\n\nThe full name of the UCSD division of Calit2 is the \"Qualcomm Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology, the UC San Diego Division of Calit2\". Atkinson Hall is the home of the Qualcomm Institute. The 215,000-square-foot facility was designed by NBBJ and constructed by Gilbane and is \"inspired by the notion of change and the coexistence of opposites\". This building was designed as an instrument of research to encourage partners to combine in unusual teams to make fundamental discoveries. Atkinson Hall's interior encourages open communication and collaboration between colleagues through its open and reconfigurable design. This building features the futuristic StarCAVE virtual reality (VR) environment. The StarCAVE is a pentagonal, three-dimensional VR room where the audience and viewer are surrounded by 360-degree projections over 15 screens covering the walls and two screens on the floor. Another important feature Atkinson Hall provides to its visitors and researchers is its extreme bandwidth. Atkinson Hall contains about 2 million feet of category 6 copper cabeling with 150 optical fibers connecting the building to UCSD's network.\n\nThe Calit2 building at the University of California, Irvine is currently a 120,000-square-foot building designed by Johnson Fain Partners and constructed by PCL Construction Services. Aside from its research labs, offices, support space, meeting space, and four-story atrium, the Calit2 building at UCI also houses a 3,700 square-foot Nanofabrication Cleanroom Facility. This room offers a filtered-air environment, large-scale visualization lab, network lab, and also labs for optical devices, nanotechnology and media arts. The Calit2 building features a spacious and state-of-the-art auditorium that can seat an audience of around 145 people. The UCI facility also has access to UCI's first Voice-over-IP phone system and statewide/nationwide high-speed fiber optic networks. The UCI Calit2 building is the home of TechPortal, a business technology incubator offering 1460 square feet of space for up to eight companies. TechPortal provides affordable space, access to facilities/services, and expert mentoring to UCI-based startup companies. Also, with the help of the U.S. Geological Survey, this building also contains 40 seismic sensors that measure ground and building motion.\n\nCalit2 conducts notable research projects in the following areas: \n\nOne notable project is Project GreenLight, in which research was dedicated in finding a way to build a functional green compute facility. Calit2 is also known for its project, Community Cyberinfrastructure for Advanced Marine Microbial Ecology Research and Analysis (CAMERA), which was created to address the challenges the microbial ecology research community faced in metagenomic analysis. Currently, CAMERA aims to create a rich, distinctive data repository and bioinformatics tools to support the growing amount of data on metagenomic data.\n\nSince 2009, Calit2 has been awarded several funded research grants by NIH and NIF. Along with research grants, Calit2 was honored the Innovations in Networking Award for High-Performance Research Applications by the Coroporation for Education Network Initiatives in California (CENIC) from 2007-2012. This annual award is given out annually to \"highlight exemplary innovations that leverage ultra high-bandwidth networking, particularly where those innovations have the potential to revolutionize the ways in which instruction and research are conducted, or where they further the deployment of broadband in underserved areas.\" Calit2's most recent project honored by CENIC was its Mexican-American advanced network project to increase bandwidth and network communication between research facilities in Mexico and America. The other past projects recognized by CENIC have included the CineGrid consortium, the Scalable, Energy Efficient Datacenters (SEED) project, and the GreenLight project.\n\nThe Gallery at Calit2 has presented numerous exhibitions from artists around the world since 2009 including Jordan Crandall, Carlos Trilnick, Felipe Zuñiga, Nina Waisman, Ignacio Lopez, Adriene Jenik, Antoinette LaFarge, Robert Allen, Greg Niemeyer and Sabrina Raaf. Guest curators include Christiane Paul and Steve Dietz.\n\nThe Gallery has hosted talks by artists including Ann Hamilton, Jordan Crandall, Micha Cárdenas, Amy Sara Carroll, Sharon Daniel, Warren Sack and Rita Raley.\n\n"}
{"id": "50150073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50150073", "title": "Center for Education Policy Analysis", "text": "Center for Education Policy Analysis\n\nThe Center for Education Policy Analysis (CEPA) is a research center at the Stanford Graduate School of Education dedicated to action-oriented research on education policies. CEPA's research focuses on the impact of poverty and inequality on educational achievement, the evaluation of federal and state education policy, teaching and leadership effectiveness, and technological innovations in education. CEPA was established in 2009 as part of the Stanford Challenge, a multidisciplinary initiative at Stanford University aimed at improving K-12 education. It is ranked as the 10th most influential education policy think tank worldwide by the Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program.\n\nThe main focus of CEPA's activities is on performing research on education policies in the United States. These research activities are mediated through a series of research projects, including:\n\nThe outcomes of these research projects are published by CEPA in the form of reports, working papers, journal articles, and books.\nAdditionally, CEPA also offers training programmes for doctorate candidates, postdoctoral fellowships and research assistantships for undergraduates.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24879414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24879414", "title": "College tour", "text": "College tour\n\nA college tour is a series of campus visits to a number of colleges or universities (two or four year) by a prospective student (freshman, transfer, or graduate.) College tours may be taken individually or by school groups and educational programs as a way for a large number of people to visit several schools over a short period of time. In addition, many colleges now offer virtual tours on the Internet.\n\nA college tour is composed of multiple, distinct campus visits. In most cases a campus visit involves an information session directed by an admissions officer and a walking tour of campus conducted by a student ambassador. A campus visit can be taken by individual students and their families, with the student and parents often joining other individuals to create a larger group. Many colleges offer “open houses” usually consisting of a day or series of days set aside for students and their families to visit a particular school. Often there will be special programs or presentations during these times which would not be available during a regular visit. Most colleges and universities also offer private tours and information sessions for large groups from a single school or educational program.\n\nCounselors and admissions officers often urge students to visit colleges before applying.\nStudents often use their observations from college visits to make a final selection.\n\nCollege tours are usually planned 2 to 4 weeks in advance and more for larger schools. Students are encouraged to plan their visit during the school year when classes are in session to get a true sense campus life. A family campus visit can be arranged by calling the school's visitor center or admissions office. Many colleges allow students to register for their college tour on the campus website.\nGroup campus tours are planned by high school counselors, parent-teacher associations, and educational programs such as Boys and Girls Club of America or Upward Bound. Tour operators also offer paid services to plan and arrange college tours for groups in addition to transportation, lodging and activities.\n\nAn admissions information session provides prospective students with knowledge about the college they are applying to. These sessions usually last thirty minutes to an hour and include information about admissions requirements, financial aid, and academic requirements for acceptance to that particular institution.\n\nThe walking campus tour allows students to see the campus including academic buildings, residence halls, dining halls, athletic fields, and other areas. Some tours offer students a glimpse into a dorm or classroom but this varies from campus to campus. Walking tours are usually conducted by a current student ambassador who, in addition to pointing out campus highlights, answers student questions.\n\n"}
{"id": "424789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=424789", "title": "Cultural history", "text": "Cultural history\n\nCultural history combines the approaches of anthropology and history to look at popular cultural traditions and cultural interpretations of historical experience. It examines the records and narrative descriptions of past matter, encompassing the continuum of events (occurring in succession and leading from the past to the present and even into the future) pertaining to a culture.\n\nCultural history records and interprets past events involving human beings through the social, cultural, and political milieu of or relating to the arts and manners that a group favors. Jacob Burckhardt (1818–1897) helped found cultural history as a discipline. Cultural history studies and interprets the record of human societies by denoting the various distinctive ways of living built up by a group of people under consideration. Cultural history involves the aggregate of past cultural activity, such as ceremony, class in practices, and the interaction with locales.\n\nCultural history overlaps in its approaches with the French movements of \"histoire des mentalités\" (Philippe Poirrier, 2004) and the so-called new history, and in the U.S. it is closely associated with the field of American studies. As originally conceived and practiced by 19th Century Swiss historian Jakob Burckhardt with regard to the Italian Renaissance, cultural history was oriented to the study of a particular historical period in its entirety, with regard not only for its painting, sculpture and architecture, but for the economic basis underpinning society, and the social institutions of its daily life as well. Echoes of Burkhardt's approach in the 20th century can be seen in Johan Huizinga's \"The Waning of the Middle Ages\" (1919).\n\nMost often the focus is on phenomena shared by non-elite groups in a society, such as: carnival, festival, and public rituals; performance traditions of tale, epic, and other verbal forms; cultural evolutions in human relations (ideas, sciences, arts, techniques); and cultural expressions of social movements such as nationalism. Also examines main historical concepts as power, ideology, class, culture, cultural identity, attitude, race, perception and new historical methods as narration of body. Many studies consider adaptations of traditional culture to mass media (television, radio, newspapers, magazines, posters, etc.), from print to film and, now, to the Internet (culture of capitalism). Its modern approaches come from art history, Annales, Marxist school, microhistory and new cultural history.\n\nCommon theoretical touchstones for recent cultural history have included: Jürgen Habermas's formulation of the public sphere in \"The Structural Transformation of the Bourgeois Public Sphere\"; Clifford Geertz's notion of 'thick description' (expounded in, for example, \"The Interpretation of Cultures\"); and the idea of memory as a cultural-historical category, as discussed in Paul Connerton's \"How Societies Remember\".\n\nThe area where new-style cultural history is often pointed to as being almost a paradigm is the 'revisionist' history of the French Revolution, dated somewhere since François Furet's massively influential 1978 essay \"Interpreting the French Revolution\". The 'revisionist interpretation' is often characterised as replacing the allegedly dominant, allegedly Marxist, 'social interpretation' which locate the causes of the Revolution in class dynamics. The revisionist approach has tended to put more emphasis on 'political culture'. Reading ideas of political culture through Habermas' conception of the public sphere, historians of the Revolution in the past few decades have looked at the role and position of cultural themes such as gender, ritual, and ideology in the context of pre-revolutionary French political culture.\n\nHistorians who might be grouped under this umbrella are Roger Chartier, Robert Darnton, Patrice Higonnet, Lynn Hunt, Keith Baker, Joan Landes, Mona Ozouf and Sarah Maza. Of course, these scholars all pursue fairly diverse interests, and perhaps too much emphasis has been placed on the paradigmatic nature of the new history of the French Revolution. Colin Jones, for example, is no stranger to cultural history, Habermas, or Marxism, and has persistently argued that the Marxist interpretation is not dead, but can be revivified; after all, Habermas' logic was heavily indebted to a Marxist understanding. Meanwhile, Rebecca Spang has also recently argued that for all its emphasis on difference and newness, the 'revisionist' approach retains the idea of the French Revolution as a watershed in the history of (so-called) modernity, and that the problematic notion of 'modernity' has itself attracted scant attention.\n\n\"Cultural studies\" is an academic discipline popular among a diverse group of scholars. It combines political economy, geography, sociology, social theory, literary theory, film/video studies, cultural anthropology, philosophy, and art history/criticism to study cultural phenomena in various societies. Cultural studies researchers often concentrate on how a particular phenomenon relates to matters of ideology, nationality, ethnicity, social class, and/or gender. The term was coined by Richard Hoggart in 1964 when he founded the Birmingham Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies. It has since become strongly associated with Stuart Hall, who succeeded Hoggart as Director.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11377631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11377631", "title": "Cynthia McLeod", "text": "Cynthia McLeod\n\nCynthia Henri McLeod (born 4 October 1936) is a Surinamese novelist.\n\nMcLeod was born in Paramaribo as \"Cynthia Ferrier\"; she is the daughter of Johan Ferrier, the first President of Suriname. She is the half-sister of Dutch politician Kathleen Ferrier.\n\nShe completed her secondary school education in Suriname and continued her education in the Netherlands, where she studied to become a teacher in Child Care and Education. She married Dr. Donald McLeod whom she met in the Netherlands. In 1962 they went to Suriname, where McLeod studied for a teaching degree in Dutch Language and Dutch Literature. From 1969 to 1978 she taught Dutch Language and Literature in pre-university education in Paramaribo. Her husband, Donald McLeod, was appointed in 1978 as Suriname’s Ambassador to Venezuela. Then he became Suriname’s Ambassador to Belgium and the United States. Abroad McLeod started writing and especially during her stay in Belgium she had the opportunity to do research in the archives of The Hague, Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Emmerich, and Köln.\n\nIn 1986 the McLeods returned to Suriname and in 1987 her debut novel \"Hoe duur was de suiker?\" (The Cost of Sugar) was published by publisher Vaco in Paramaribo. The first print was sold out within a few weeks and Cynthia McLeod became the most famous Surinamese novelist overnight. Later this historical novel about the sugar cane industry in the 18th century was published under license by her Dutch publisher Conserve. Soon other historical novels from her hand appeared, such as \"Hitchin wegwijzer vervolging\".\n\nMcLeod studied the life of Elisabeth Samson for over five years. Samson was a free black woman whose name occurs prominently in historical works on Suriname because she wanted to marry a white man (which was forbidden in the colony Suriname during the first half of the 18th century). The results of this research were first published as a study by the Faculty of Cultural Anthropology of the University of Utrecht. For eight years subsequently McLeod studied the social structure and life of that period, which allowed her to position Elisabeth as a rich free black person in this society dominated by prejudices and white supremacy. She then wrote the highly captivating novel: \"The Free Negress Elisabeth\".\n\nAs a result of her long research McLeod has gained a wealth of knowledge about Surinamese history; knowledge she gladly shares with others. For the Surinamese school youth she organizes free educational trips with her motorized vessel, the \"Sweet Merodia\". During these tours over the Surinamese Rivers, past former plantations, she captivates her audience with stories about its interesting past. She further engages in historic city tours through the centre of historic Paramaribo, which has been a UNESCO world heritage site since 2002.\n\nHistorical novels\n\nStudies\n\nChildren’s books and musicals\n\n"}
{"id": "51866089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51866089", "title": "Data-driven instruction", "text": "Data-driven instruction\n\nData-driven instruction is an educational approach that relies on information to inform teaching and learning. The idea refers to a method teachers use to improve instruction by looking at the information they have about their students. It takes place within the classroom, compared to data-driven decision making. Data-driven instruction works on two levels. One, it provides teachers the ability to be more responsive to students’ needs, and two, it allows students to be in charge of their own learning. Data-driven instruction can be understood through examination of its history, how it is used in the classroom, its attributes, and examples from teachers using this process.\n\nPrior to the current emphasis on data and accountability in schools, some school leaders and education researchers focused on standards-based reform in education. From the idea of creating standards comes accountability, the idea that schools should report on their ability to meet the designated standards. Late in the last century and in the early 2000s, an increased emphasis on accountability in public organizations made its way into the realm of education. With the passing of the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) Act in 2001 came laws requiring schools to provide information to the public concerning the quality of education provided to students. To be able to provide such data, states were mandated to create accountability measures and yearly assessments to gauge the effectiveness of schools in meeting those measures. Following NCLB, more recent legislation under the Race to the Top Act further pushed states to use data gathering and reporting to demonstrate school’s ability to meet the demands of the public. Embedded in both NCLB and the Race to the Top Act is an assumption that the collection and use of data can lead to increased student performance.\n\nData in the classroom is any information that is visible during instruction that could be used to inform teaching and learning. Types of data include quantitative and qualitative data, although quantitative data is most often used for data-driven instruction. Examples of quantitative data include test scores, results on a quiz, and levels of performance on a periodic assessment. Examples of qualitative data include field notes, student work/artifacts, interviews, focus groups, digital pictures, video, reflective journals.\n\nQuantitative and qualitative data is generally captured through two forms of assessments: formative and summative. Formative assessment is the information that is revealed and shared during instruction and is actionable by the teacher or student. Paul Black and Dylan Wiliam offer examples of classroom assessment that is formative in nature, including student observations and discussions, understand pupils’ needs and challenges, and looking at student work. Conversely, summative assessments are designed to determine whether or not a student can transfer their learning to new contexts, as well as for accountability purposes. Formative assessment is the use of information made evident during instruction in order to improve student progress and performance. Summative assessments occur after teaching and learning occurred.\n\nUnderstanding the differences between quantitative data vs. qualitative data, as well as formative assessment vs. summative assessment that tease out this data can be defined as assessment literacy. Building assessment literacy also includes knowing when to use which type of assessment and the resulting data to use to inform instruction. The purpose of data driven instruction is to use information to guide teaching and learning. Dylan Wiliam offers examples of data driven instruction using formative assessment:\nBecause of the lack of timely feedback regarding the results plus the inability to personalize the approach, summative assessments are not readily used for data driven instruction in the classroom. Instead, a variety of information gleaned from different forms of assessments should be used to make decisions about student progress and performance within data-driven instruction. The use of multiple measures of different forms and at different times to make instructional decisions is referred to as triangulation.\n\nData-Driven Instructional Systems refers to a comprehensive system of structures that school leaders and teachers design in order to incorporate the data into their instructions. Building on organizational and school change literature, Richard Halverson, Jeffrey Grigg, Reid Prichett, and Chris Thomas developed a DDIS framework in an attempt to describe how relevant actors manage school-level internal accountability to external accountability. Specifically, high-stakes external accountability policies such as No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) was implemented to hold schools accountable for the reported standardized, summative assessment metrics. However, schools already had active internal accountability systems that place high emphasis on an ongoing cycle of instructional improvement based on the use of data including formative assessment results and behavioral information. Therefore, when the high-stakes accountability was implemented, schools naturally go through process of alignment between different types of data different purposes and the corresponding tension. Richard Halverson and his colleagues, employing case study approaches, explore leaders’ effort of coordination and alignment process which occurs between extant “central practices and cultures of schools” and “new accountability pressure” in a pursuit of improving student achievement score.\n\nIn their article, Richard Halverson, Jeffrey Grigg, Reid Prichett, and Chris Thomas suggest that the DDIS framework is composed of six organizational functions: data acquisition; data reflection; program alignment; program design; formative feedback; test preparation.\n\nData acquisition includes the data collection, data storage, and data reporting functions. “Data” in DDIS model is broadly conceptualized as any type of information that guides teaching and learning. In practice, schools collect academic data standardized assessment test scores, as well as non-academic data like student demographic information, community survey data, curricula, technological capacity, and behavioral records. In order to store such data, some schools develop their own local collection strategies using low-tech printouts and notebooks, whereas other schools rely on high-tech district storage systems, which provide tremendous amounts of reports. School leaders have discussions around which data needs to be reported and how to report the data in a way that they can use to guide teaching practices.\n\nIn the DDIS model, data reflection refers to collectively making sense of the reported data. District-level data retreats provide key opportunities for the schools within districts to identify the school-level strengths and weaknesses in terms of achievement data. Retreats help districts to develop district-level visions for instruction. In contrast, through local data reflection meetings, teachers have conversations focused on the individual students’ progress by examining each student’s performance on the assessed standards.\n\nRichard Halverson and his colleagues states that program alignment function refers to “link[ing] the relevant content and performance standards with the actual content taught in classroom.” For example, the benchmark assessment results, as “problem-finding tools,” help educators to identify the curricular standards that are not aligned well with the current instructional programs.\n\nAfter identifying the main areas in relation to students learning needs and school goals, leaders and teachers design interventions: faculty-based programs; curriculum-based programs; and student-based programs. In an effort to improve the faculty’s data literacy, educators are provided with a variety of professional development opportunities and coaching focused on professional interaction (faculty-based programs). In addition, educators modify their curriculum as a whole-classroom approach (curriculum-based programs) or develop customized instructional plans taking into account individual students’ needs (student-based programs).\n\nEducators interact with each other around the formative feedback on the local interventions implemented across classrooms and programs. Formative feedback systems are made of three main components: intervention, assessment, and actuation. Intervention artifacts here include curriculum materials like textbooks and experiments, or programs such as individualized education programs (Intervention). The effect of these intervention artifacts can be evaluated through formative assessments, either commercial or self-created, from the perspective that they had brought intended changes to teaching and learning (Assessment). In the actuation space, educators interpret the assessment results in relation to the initial goals of the intervention, and discuss how to modify the instruction delivery or assessment as measurement tools, which lays groundwork for the new interventions (Actuation).\n\nThis function is not intended for teachers to “teach to the test.” Rather, it points to the following activities: curriculum-embedded activities, test practice, environmental design, and community outreach. Teachers incorporate the content of standardized assessment into their day-to-day instructions (curriculum-embedded activities), assist students to practice or be accustomed to test-taking with similar types of tests (test practice), and establish a favorable test-taking environment (environmental design). Further, teachers communicate with parents and the community members on the topics ranging from test implementation to interpreting the test results (community outreach).\n\nThe primary implication for school districts is in ensuring high quality and relevant data is gathered and available. Beyond creating systems to gather and share the data, the school district must provide the expertise, in the form of data expert personnel and/or the access to professional development resources to ensure school building leaders are able to access and use the data.\n\nAnother critical component of the responsibility of the district is to provide the leadership and vision to promulgate the use of information about student performance to improve teaching practice. Zavadsky and Dolejs suggest two areas for school districts to consider:\n\n“The first is data collection and analysis. Districts and schools must carefully consider what data they need to collect, develop instruments with which to collect the data, and make the data available as soon as possible. The second component is data use. Principals and district leaders must give teachers sufficient time and training to understand the data and learn how to respond to what the data reveal”.\n\nWhile the literature shows the vital importance of the role of the district in setting the stage for data driven instruction, more of the work of connecting student performance to classroom practices happens at the school and classroom level.\n\nSchools have a major role in establishing the conditions for data-driven instruction to flourish. Heppen, et al. indicate a need for a clear and consistent focus on using data and a data-rich environment to support teachers’ efforts to use data to drive instruction. When the leadership creates and maintains an environment which promotes collaboration and clearly communicates the urgency to improve student learning, teachers feel supported to engage in data use. The additional scaffold of modeling the use of data at the school level increases teachers’ expertise in the use of data.\n\nData-driven instruction is created and implemented in the classroom. Teachers have the most direct link between student performance and classroom practices. Through the use of data, teachers can make decisions about what and how to teach including how to use time in class, interventions for students who are not meeting standards, customizing lessons based on real-time information, adapting teaching practice to align to student needs, and making changes to pace, scope and sequence.\n\nTo be able to engage in data-driven instruction, teachers must first develop the knowledge, skills, and dispositions required. Working in a school culture and climate in which data-driven instruction is valued and supported, teachers have the ability to increase student achievement and potentially reduce the achievement gap. Additionally, teachers must have access to learning opportunities or professional development which helps them understand the pedagogical framework and technical skills required to obtain, analyze, and use information about students to make instructional decisions.\n\nA significant new growth in data-driven instruction is in having students shape their lessons using data about their own progress. Younger learners who are able to self-report regarding grades and other assessments can experience high levels of achievement and progress within instruction. The strategies that students use to evaluate their own learning vary in effectiveness. In a meta-analysis, Dunlosky, Rawson, Marsh, Nathan & Willingham ranked ten learning strategies based on the projected impact each would have on achievement:\n\nHighly Effective Strategies:\nModerately Effective Strategies:\nLess Effective Strategies:\nIt is worth noting that the less effective strategies may be more commonly used in K-12 classrooms than the moderately effective and highly effective strategies. The authors suggest that students should be taught how to use more effective techniques and when they are most helpful in guiding their learning. When these strategies become internalized, students will have developed techniques in order to learn how to learn. This is critical as they move into the secondary level and are expected to be more independent in their studies.\n\nA major criticism of data driven instruction is that it focuses too much on test scores, and that not enough attention is given to the results of classroom assessments. Data driven instruction should serve as a “road map through assessment” that helps “teachers plan instruction to meet students’ needs, leading to better achievement”. Summative assessments should not be used to inform the day-to-day teaching and learning that is supported by data-driven instruction. Additional problems associated with perceptions of data driven instruction include the limitations of quantitative data to represent student learning, not considering the social and emotional needs or the context of the data when making instructional decisions, and a hyperfocus on the core areas of literacy and mathematics while ignoring the encore, traditionally high-interest areas such as the arts and humanities.\n\nBlack, P. & Wiliam, D. (1998). Inside the Black Box: Raising Standards Through Classroom Assessment. Phi Delta Kappan, 80(2), pp. 139–148.\n\nBoudett, K. P., City, E. A., Murname, R. J. (2013). Data Wise: A Step-by-Step Guide to Using Assessment Results to Improve Teaching and Learning. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Education Press.\n\nDana, N. F. & Yendol-Hoppey, D. (2014). The Reflective Educator’s Guide to Classroom Research: Learning to Teach and Teaching to Learn Through Practitioner Inquiry (3rd Ed.). Thousand Oaks, CA: Corwin.\n\nDatnow, A., & Park, V. (2014). Data-Driven Leadership. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.\n\nDunlosky, J., Rawson, K. A., Marsh, E. J., Nathan, M. J., & Willingham, D. T. (2013). Improving students’ learning with effective learning techniques promising directions from cognitive and educational psychology. Psychological Science in the Public Interest, 14(1), 4-58.\n\nEagle, M., Corbett, A., Stamper, J., McLaren, B. M., Baker, R., Wagner, A., ... Mitchell, A. (2016). Predicting Individual Differences for Learner Modeling in Intelligent Tutors from Previous Learner Activities (pp. 55–63). ACM Press. \n\nElmore, R. F. (2000). Building a new structure for school leadership. Albert Shanker Institute. Retrieved from http://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED546618\n\nFurlong-Gordon, J. M. (2009). Driving classroom instruction with data: From the district to the teachers to the classroom (Ed.D.). Wilmington University (Delaware), United States—Delaware. Retrieved from http://search.proquest.com/docview/250914319/\n\nGold, S. (2005). DRIVEN by DATA. Technology & Learning, 25(11), 6,8-9.\n\nHalverson, R., Grigg, J., Prichett, R., & Thomas, C. (2007). The New Instructional Leadership: Creating Data-Driven Instructional Systems in School. Journal of School Leadership, 17(March), 159–194.\n\nHamilton et al. - 2009 - Using student achievement data to support instruct.pdf. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED506645.pdf\n\nHamilton, L., Halverson, R., Jackson, S. S., Mandinach, E., Supovitz, J. A., Wayman, J. C., ... Steele, J. L. (2009). Using student achievement data to support instructional decision making. Retrieved from http://repository.upenn.edu/gse_pubs/279/\n\nHattie, J. (2012). Visible Learning for Teachers: Maximizing Impact on Learning. New York: Routledge.\n\nHeppen, J., Faria, A.-M., Thomsen, K., Sawyer, K., Townsend, M., Kutner, M., ... Casserly, M. (2010). Using Data to Improve Instruction in the Great City Schools: Key Dimensions of Practice. Urban Data Study. Council of the Great City Schools. Retrieved from http://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED536737\n\nJohnson, L. (2009). Randi Weingarten, President Antonia Cortese, Secretary-Treasurer. Retrieved from http://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED511575\n\nJones, A. (2005). The Myths of Data-Driven Schools. Principal Leadership, Middle Level Ed., 6(2), 37–39.\n\nKennedy, B. L., & Datnow, A. (2011). Student Involvement and Data-Driven Decision Making Developing a New Typology. Youth & Society, 43(4), 1246–1271. \n\nLarocque, M. (2007). Closing the Achievement Gap: The Experience of a Middle School. Clearing House, 80(4), 157–162.\n\nMelucci, L. (2013, August). TEACHER PERCEPTIONS AND USE OF DATA-DRIVEN INSTRUCTION.pdf. Capella University.\n\nMokhtari, K., Rosemary, C. A., & Edwards, P. A. (2007). Making Instructional Decisions Based on Data: What, How, and Why. Reading Teacher, 61(4), 354–359.\n\nMoriarty, T. W. (2013). Data-driven decision making: Teachers’ use of data in the classroom (Ph.D.). University of San Diego, United States—California. Retrieved from http://search.proquest.com/docview/1432373944/\n\nNeuman, S. (2016). Code Red: The Danger of Data-Driven Instruction. Educational Leadership, 74(3), pps. 24-29.\n\nPella, S. (2012). What Should Count as Data for Data-Driven Instruction? Toward Contextualized Data-Inquiry Models for Teacher Education and Professional Development. Middle Grades Research Journal, 7(1), 57–75.\n\nRogers, L. N., & Tyndall, P. D. (2001). Teachers’ Perspectives: Developing Instructional Leadership through Classroom Inquiry. Retrieved from http://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED465596\n\nSchmidt, W. H., Burroughs, N. A., Zoido, P., & Houang, R. T. (2015). The Role of Schooling in Perpetuating Educational Inequality An International Perspective. Educational Researcher, 44(7), 371–386.\n\nSchmoker, M. (1996). Results: the key to continuous school improvement. Alexandria, VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development.\n\nShanahan, T., Callison, K., Carriere, C., Duke, N. K., Pearson, P. D., Schatschneider, C., & Torgesen, J. (2010). Improving Reading Comprehension in Kindergarten through 3rd Grade: IES Practice Guide. NCEE 2010-4038. What Works Clearinghouse. Retrieved from http://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED512029\n\nStamper, J., Ed, Pardos, Z., Ed, Mavrikis, M., Ed, McLaren, B. M., Ed, & International Educational Data Mining Society. (2014). Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Educational Data Mining (EDM) (7th, London, United Kingdom, July 4–7, 2014). International Educational Data Mining Society. http://www.educationaldatamining.org\n\nSwan, G., & Mazur, J. (2011). Examining data driven decision making via formative assessment: A confluence of technology, data interpretation heuristics and curricular policy. Gene, 1(1), 1.\n\nWiliam, D. (2011). Embedded Formative Assessment. Bloomington, IN: Solution Tree.\n\nZavadsky, H., & Dolejs, A. (2006). DATA: Not Just Another Four-Letter Word. Principal Leadership, Middle Level Ed., 7(2), 32–36.\n"}
{"id": "6943662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6943662", "title": "Department of Education (Northern Ireland)", "text": "Department of Education (Northern Ireland)\n\nThe Department of Education (DENI) (; Ulster-Scots: \"Männystrie o Lear\") is a devolved Northern Irish government department in the Northern Ireland Executive. The minister with overall responsibility for the department is the Minister of Education.\n\nThe department's overall vision is \"to ensure that every learner fulfils her or his potential at each stage of development\". Its key stated priorities are: raising Standards for all; closing the performance gap, increasing access and equality; developing the education workforce; improving the \"learning environment\"; and transforming education management.\n\nThe department is responsible for the following levels of education:\n\nUntil 2016 the former Department for Employment and Learning was responsible for further and higher education policy in Northern Ireland. Further and higher education are now the responsibility of the Department for the Economy.\n\nThe Department of Education also covers:\n\nAs an organisation, its key functions include advising the minister on the determination of education policy, framing legislation, accounting for the effectiveness of the education system, allocating, and monitoring and accounting for resources.\n\nThrough the Education and Training Inspectorate, it evaluates and reports on the quality of teaching and learning and teacher education.\n\nAdministration of the education system is delegated to a single combined authority, funded by the department:\n\n\nIts main counterpart in the United Kingdom Government is the Department for Education. The main counterpart in the Irish Government is the Department of Education and Skills.\n\nA Ministry of Education was established at the foundation of Northern Ireland in June 1921 and was subsequently renamed the Department of Education under direct rule, introduced in March 1972. An education ministry was also included in the Northern Ireland Executive briefly formed in 1974. The department's remit under direct rule was much wider, incorporating cultural and sport policy (now held by the Department of Culture, Arts and Leisure) and further and higher education (now held by the Department for Employment and Learning).\n\nFollowing a referendum on the Belfast Agreement on 23 May 1998 and the granting of royal assent to the Northern Ireland Act 1998 on 19 November 1998, a Northern Ireland Assembly and Northern Ireland Executive were established by the United Kingdom Government under Prime Minister Tony Blair. The Department of Education (with its reduced remit) was therefore one of the six direct rule Northern Ireland departments that continued in existence after devolution, following the Northern Ireland Act 1998 and The Departments (Northern Ireland) Order 1999.\n\nA devolved minister took office on 2 December 1999. Devolution was suspended for four periods, during which the department came under the responsibility of direct rule ministers from the Northern Ireland Office:\n\nSince 8 May 2007, devolution has operated without interruption. On 11 January 2012, the First Minister and deputy First Minister, Peter Robinson and Martin McGuinness respectively, announced their intention to abolish the Department for Employment and Learning. \n\nIts functions would be \"divided principally\" between the Department of Education and the Department of Enterprise, Trade and Investment \"in an agreed manner\". The proposal was resisted by the Alliance Party, which viewed it as \"power grab\" by the Democratic Unionist Party and Sinn Féin, but was approved on 18 January 2012. No timescale for the abolition was outlined and the department remained in operation, as of late March 2012.\n\nFrom 2 December 1999 to 25 May 2016, the department was headed by Sinn Féin legislators. It was not until 25 May 2016 that the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP)'s Peter Weir became the first non-Sinn Féin politician to head the Northern Ireland Department of Education.\n\nDuring the periods of suspension, the following ministers of the Northern Ireland Office/Education Secretaries of the British Department for Education were responsible for the department:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1454106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1454106", "title": "Diplomi-insinööri", "text": "Diplomi-insinööri\n\nDiplomi-insinööri (DI) () is a Finnish Master's level academic degree with a nominal length of 300 ECTS credits. The official English translation of the degree is Master of Science (Technology). The Finnish name derives from the old German degree called \"Diplom-Ingenieur\".\n\nThe degree qualifies for the \"tekniikan lisensiaatti\" (Licenciate of Science (Technology)) and the \"tekniikan tohtori\" (Doctor of Science (Technology)) degrees. It is preceded directly by \"tekniikan kandidaatti\" (Bachelor of Science in Technology), and, with some additional study, by other Bachelor's level degrees. It is a taught master's degree, but includes a half-year project (\"diplomityö\", \"Master's thesis\").\n\nThe \"diplomi-insinööri\" degree is granted by seven Finnish universities in a variety of degree programs. The common feature of the programs is the engineering approach based on scientific and mathematical studies. Usually, graduates with the degree work as experts, managers, researchers, or entrepreneurs. Many, if not most, of the middle and upper management in Finnish engineering and technology-based corporations are DIs.\n\nSince 2005, the degree has been incorporated into the Bologna Process and all students admitted before 2005 were required to complete their studies by 2010 if they wished to graduate under the old statutes. The modern, Bologna-compatible includes an intermediate bachelor's degree \"tekniikan kandidaatti\", which is to be taken after three years studies (180 ECTS). In the old system, an intermediate degree did not exist, which was a problem for exchange students going to study abroad in Masters-level studies.\n\nIn Finland, the higher education follows a dual model with science-and-letters-based universities and work-oriented polytechnics. In polytechnics, students may study for the degree \"insinööri (AMK)\", officially translated Bachelor of Engineering, which is a four-year, 240 ECTS program. The holders of \"insinööri (AMK)\" qualify to study straight for the \"diplomi-insinööri\" degree without the \"tekniikan kandidaatti\" degree in the same branch of technology, but must usually complete up to 60 ECTS worth of mathematical and scientific studies in addition to the normal master's degree requirement. Thus the master's program for \"insinööris (AMK)\" has a length of 180 ECTS or three years. Similar requirements apply, if a Bachelor with a university degree from a non-engineering program is admitted.\n\nIn both the new and the old system the degrees are classified into \"pass\" and \"with distinction\" (\"oivallisesti\") categories. The rare \"with distinction\" classification (less than 10% of the graduates) requires a grade point average of at least 4.00/5 and a thesis with grade of at least 4/5.\n\nUniversities that grant the degree are:\n\nThe universities have a common entrance examination and selection process, \"DIA-valinta\" (\"diplomi-insinööri- ja arkkitehtikoulutuksen yhteisvalinta\"), which accounts for most of matriculations.\n"}
{"id": "18103090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18103090", "title": "Education in Equatorial Guinea", "text": "Education in Equatorial Guinea\n\nEducation in Equatorial Guinea is free and compulsory until the age of 14. In 1993, the gross primary enrollment rate was 149.7 percent, and the net primary enrollment rate was 83.4 percent. Late entry into the school system and high dropout rates are common, and girls are more likely than boys to drop out of school, with enrollment at about 24 percent of all age-eligible students. \n\nPrimary education is for five years followed by four years of secondary in the first stage and three subsequent years of secondary education in the second stage.\nIn 2001, about 35% of children between the ages of three and six were enrolled in some type of preschool program. \n\nIt is estimated that about 45 percent of all students complete their primary education. The student-to-teacher ratio for primary school was at about 43:1 in 2000; the ratio for secondary school was about 23:1.\n\nThe National University of Equatorial Guinea is the primary institute of higher learning. The adult literacy rate for 2014 was estimated at about 95 percent, with 98 percent for youth 15-24 year old, the highest in sub-saharan Africa.\n\nAs of 2003, public expenditure on education was estimated at 0.6% of GDP, or 1.6% of total government expenditures.\n\n"}
{"id": "5877939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5877939", "title": "First solo flight", "text": "First solo flight\n\nThe first solo flight of a new pilot comprises that pilot completing a take off, and usually a short flight and safe landing, by him or herself. Flying such a flight is a milestone known as soloing. Being solo pilot of an aircraft is different from most other situations in that the pilot has not only to be able to fly and navigate the machine in a competent manner but he/she also has to be able to cope with unpredictable developments like mechanical failure, bad weather etc. on his/her own and without advice from other sources (most air traffic controllers are not pilots and may not be contactable anyway).\n\nDepending on the country, there may be a requirement for some minimum number of training hours to have been completed by the student pilot before he or she is allowed to solo. In most countries, it is assumed that such students will be familiar with (and may have to pass an examination on) the relevant Air Laws or Regulations, and will have completed exercises in handling aircraft in normal conditions, and also what to do in the case of engine failure on takeoff, in flight, and before landing.\n\nIn the United States, for most aircraft, there is no FAA (Federal Aviation Administration) requirement for a minimum number of hours. Per FAR Part 61 SFAR 73 section 2, Robinson helicopters have a 20-hour requirement to solo. However the regulations do require that a student pilot show competency in several specific skills to include, for example, the ability to forward slip. In practice, competence is mostly a judgment call of the Certificated Flight Instructor (CFI) responsible for the student. Typically, it takes from 10 to 30 hours of flight time before a pilot has the instinctive feel of an aircraft to be safe flying solo in other than perfect (no wind) weather.\nIn some cases, when the student is given permission to fly alone the instructor directs the student to fly three circuits of the traffic pattern each accompanied by a full stop landing. During the first circuit, the solo, the student's Flight instructor may supervise the student's performance from the ground, paying close attention to the approach and landing. Some instructors keep a radio handy, if there is one in the aircraft, in case the student pilot should need assistance or advice.\n\nSeveral traditions have developed in the United States around \"soloing\", including drenching the student with water and cutting off and permanently displaying the back of his or her shirt.\n\nIn American aviation lore, the traditional removal of a new pilot's shirt tail is a sign of the instructor's new confidence in his student after successful completion of the first solo flight. In the days of tandem trainers, the student sat in the front seat, with the instructor behind. As there were often no radios in these early days of aviation, the instructor would tug on the student pilot's shirttail to get his attention, and then yell in his ear. A successful first solo flight is an indication that the student can fly without the instructor (\"instructor-less\" flight). Hence, there is no longer a need for the shirt tail, and it is cut off by the (often) proud instructor, and sometimes displayed as a trophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "7248970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7248970", "title": "Franz Crass", "text": "Franz Crass\n\nFranz Crass (9 March 192823 June 2012) was a German bass singer.\n\nA native of Wipperfürth, Rhine Province, Crass studied with Gerda Heuer in Wiesbaden and with Professor Clemens Glettenberg at the Hochschule für Musik in Köln. He won numerous competitions throughout Germany in the 1950s. In 1954, he made his debut at the municipal theater in Krefeld; from 1956 he sang at the Landestheater Hannover.\n\nCrass established a reputation as a Wagnerian early in his career, appearing at the Bayreuth Festival between 1954 and 1973. He made guest appearances throughout Germany, and was a regular member of the Köln Opera from 1962 until 1964. In addition to his work as a concert and oratorio singer, he became known for singing works of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.\n\nCrass ended his career abruptly due to hearing trouble in 1981; after that he devoted himself to coaching younger singers. He died in Rüsselsheim, aged 84.\n\nThe Kammersänger left recordings as Heinrich der Vogler in \"Lohengrin\" (opposite Anja Silja's Elsa), Sarastro in \"The Magic Flute\" (opposite Fritz Wunderlich and Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau), the Sprecher and Second Armed Man in Otto Klemperer's famous recording of \"The Magic Flute\", the Commendatore in \"Don Giovanni\", the title role in \"Der fliegende Holländer\", Gurnemanz in \"Parsifal\", Rocco in \"Fidelio\" (with Christa Ludwig); also as baritone soloist in the Brahms \"Requiem\" and Bach's \"Christmas Oratorio\", and as bass soloist in the Mozart \"Requiem\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9125120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9125120", "title": "Getty Foundation", "text": "Getty Foundation\n\nThe Getty Foundation, based in Los Angeles, California at the Getty Center, awards grants for \"the understanding and preservation of the visual arts\". In the past, it funded the Getty Leadership Institute for \"current and future museum leaders\", which is now at Claremont Graduate University. Its budget for 2006-07 was $27.8 million. It is part of the J. Paul Getty Trust.\n\nThe Foundation was originally called the \"Getty Grant Program,\" which began in 1984 under the direction of Deborah Marrow. The J. Paul Getty Trust can spend up to 0.75% of its endowment on gifts and grants; by 1990 the Getty Grant Program (then based in Santa Monica) had made 530 grants totaling $20 million to \"art historians, conservators and art museums in 18 countries\". Among notable grants of the Program were grants to partially fund the publication of books, for example to \"provide for additional illustrations or allow a book's purchase price to be lowered\". Some books \"published with the assistance of the Getty Grant Program\" were:\nIn 1998, the Program granted $750,000 for electronic cataloging to art museums in the Los Angeles area. The program awarded $180,000 in 1999 to the National Gallery in Prague to digitize images of works of art in its collections. In 2005, the program awarded the University of California, Los Angeles and to the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston almost $400,000 to \"support the documentation and preservation of Latino and Latin American art\".\n\nThe name of the Getty Grant Program was changed to \"Getty Foundation\" in 2005 to \"better reflect[] the expanded scope of the Getty's grant-making over the past two decades and reaffirm[] its commitment to philanthropy going forward\". Grants made by the Foundation include funding the Multicultural Undergraduate Internship Program, begun in 1993, \"seeks to increase staff diversity within visual arts organizations\" in Los Angeles County. Between 2002 and 2007, the Foundation expended over $13.5 million to fund \"plans to care for, maintain, and preserve... historic resources\" at 86 United States colleges and universities. In 2006, the Foundation committed $3.5 million to restore an 80 by 100 foot \"America Tropical\" mural on Olvera Street in Los Angeles that was painted by David Alfaro Siqueiros. In 2006, in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, the Foundation announced a $2 million fund \"to aid New Orleans's visual arts organizations\".\n\nAs of June 2008, the Foundation has four priorities for grants:\n\nIn the summer of 2011, the foundation is funding Multicultural Undergraduate Internships at 70 Los Angeles-area museums and visual arts organizations. The internships seek to attract into museum and visual arts organizations students from historically underrepresented groups: people of African American, Asian, Latino/Hispanic, Native American, and Pacific Islander descent.\n\nA major Getty initiative for 2011-12 is Pacific Standard Time: Art in LA 1945-1980, is an unprecedented collaboration that brings together more than sixty cultural institutions from across Southern California for six months beginning October 2011 to tell the story of the birth of the L.A. art scene.\n\nThe Foundation also sponsors the Getty Leadership Institute (GLI). The major GLI program is the Museum Leadership Institute (MLI), formerly known as the Museum Management Institute, which \"has served close to 1,000 museum professionals from the United States and 30 countries worldwide\". It offers a three-week curriculum for \"museum directors and senior executive team members\", with instruction in areas such as \"strategy, marketing, management and finance\". Most of the attendees work in art museums; among the executives who attended the MLI were the directors of the Frick Collection, San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, Van Gogh Museum, and Winnipeg Art Gallery.\n\nIn addition to the MLI, GLI offers other professional development programs, convenes meetings involving non-profit agencies, and hosts an online forum. The GLI began in 1979 with a headquarters in New York City and classes taught at the University of California Berkeley. From 1999 to 2009, the program was headquartered at the Getty Center in Los Angeles, California, and in 2004, classes moved from Berkeley to the Getty Center. In 2010, the GLI affiliated with Claremont Graduate University in Claremont, California and was renamed The Getty Leadership Institute at Claremont Graduate University. After the transfer, the foundation supports the GLI with a three-year, $2.2 million grant, but the program is headquartered on the Claremont campus. Claremont is funding GLI's indirect costs. Although the transfer took effect on January 2, 2010, the 2010 MLI was held at the Getty Center. The 2011 MLI will be held on the Claremont campus.\n\nThe Foundation's senior staff includes:\nDeborah Marrow, who was Foundation Director, now serves as interim president and CEO of the J. Paul Getty Trust.\n\nDuring the period July 2006 - June 2007, the Foundation had approximately 30 full-time and part-time employees, and a budget of $27.8 million.\n\nThe Getty Foundation should not be confused with the \"Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation,\" which is based in San Francisco, California, and which awards grants largely \"to promote the fields of music, the opera, and the symphony\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21925450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21925450", "title": "Green Schools Bara", "text": "Green Schools Bara\n\nGreen Schools Bara (“Sekoly Maitso Bara”) is a sub-project of the Integrated Rural Development Project (IRDP) in the Bara-Region (SoFaBa-FLM) and works in Fiherena Toliara Synod (SPFT) and Ihorombe (SPH) of the Malagasy Lutheran Church in the central south and south-west of Madagascar.\n\nSoFaBa started with its educational in 1998, and the development of “Green Schools” was part of the programme. The main focus was, however, given to encouraging the parents in the Bara-region to send their children to school and to build school houses in cooperation with the local community.\n\nIn 2003 there started a new period in SoFaBa’s educational work with a strong focus on the pedagogical work and on the general improvement of the quality of the existing schools. This includes a serious attempt to develop and introduce a Green Programme. The school in Ambatolahy in the Ankazoabo region became the first green pilot school. \n\nA new level was reached in 2005/2006 when a compulsory and holistic “Green School Programme” with many different components was introduced in all schools. By this way, the educational work in the Bara-region started by SoFaBa was strengthened and qualitatively improved. The Green Schools Bara continue and improve the work started within the SoFaBa-project putting a special emphasis on modern pedagogy, methodical renewal and social issues like the promotion of girls and children with disabilities. Furthermore, the Green Schools Bara cooperates with the government for reaching Education for All - one of the Millennium Development Goals\n\nGreen Education is an integrated education that includes all subjects. The heart of the matter is an education about the interplay of all life, the sustainable use of natural resources and the respect for and love to all creation. This requires “integrated teaching” that makes the interdependence between the single human being, the community and the surrounding ecological system obvious.\n\nGreen Schools Bara works in remote and low developed areas in the central south-west of Madagascar. There are few or no other development organizations in this area, the state is poorly represented and many children have no possibility to go to school.The project supports the objectives of the Malagasy government to ensure a basic education of high quality for all children by 2015.\n\nThe project's main activities are:\n\nIn 2006, Green School Bara started with the elaboration and production of school books and pedagogical material. This resulted in a cooperation with the National Reading Centre at the University of Stavanger, Norway, and, in 2007, the creation of an independent publishing company, Vakoka Vakiteny.\n\nThe following schools are included in the project:\nGreen Schools Bara is a project included in the Green Education Programme ProVert that is granted by the Norwegian Government (Norad) during the period 2007 - 2011. The financial support from ProVert will diminish gradually; at the same time the local shares will increase for ensuring the sustainability of the work. There will also be worked actively for finding individual partners supporting the single schools in these low developed and vulnerable area.\n\n"}
{"id": "6342697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6342697", "title": "Gulf University for Science and Technology", "text": "Gulf University for Science and Technology\n\nGulf University for Science & Technology (GUST) is the first private university established in Kuwait. It has a dual-enrollment agreement with the University of Missouri–St. Louis.\n\nThe university was to be a supplement to Kuwait University, the only institution of higher education in Kuwait at that time, and to serve the educational demands of the local society and the Persian Gulf region. In January 1997, Kuwaiti Academic Group, composed of 41 faculty members from Kuwait University, was founded to lay the foundation for the proposed “University of the Future.” Their studies culminated in a vision of the “Gulf University for Science & Technology.”\n\nA partnership was established with the University of Missouri at St. Louis (UMSL), the international counterpart university chosen to help bring the university to fruition. The development was facilitated by the Private Universities Decree, No. 34, issued by the State of Kuwait in 2000, resulting in the establishment of a temporary campus in Hawally. The issuance of Emiri Decree No. 156 in 2002 completed the legal establishment of GUST as the first private university in the State of Kuwait and permitted the start of the first academic year in 2002–2003.\n\nAt its first commencement ceremony in June 2007, GUST conferred diplomas on approximately four hundred graduates.\n\nAdmission to GUST is on a competitive basis. Applicants are reviewed based on high school performance and achievement on the GUST English and Mathematics Placement Tests. Applicants are encouraged to submit the results of a Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). Test scores must be no more than two years old at the time of application. Students who do not have a valid TOEFL score must take the GUST English Placement Test.\n\n\nThe Center of Career Services and Alumni provides career-planning services to GUST students and alumni.\n\nGUST's library was established in 2002 to serve the university faculty, staff, students, and alumni.\n\nOn June 20, 2006, the library was renamed the Abdullah Mubarak Al-Refai (A. M. Al-Refai) Library in honor of the late Dr. Abdullah Mubarak Al-Refai, President from 2003–2005.\n\nThe library has books, e-books, journals, e-journals, audiovisual materials, and bibliographic/full-text databases. The library has a collection of 19,000 book titles, 115,000 scholarly journals (including open access titles) in digital format, 194,000 e-Books, and 82 bibliographic and full-text databases.\n\nStudy areas and discussion rooms are provided on the lower level of the library for women and upper level for men. Wireless network access is available throughout the library; there are 120 computer workstations for research and to access information. A network printing facility is available.\n\nThe following services are available for the GUST Community users:\nBorrowing service, information and reference service, Ask a Librarian service, Library instruction and information literacy, TeamSpot Service, Access to the online library catalog, and the electronic resources available on the library website.\n\nThe library provides off-campus access to its subscribed electronic resources only to enrolled students, faculty, and staff.\n\nThe unit is involved in the following activities:\nDigital imaging, video and audio, screen and interface design, website design, animation, as well as graphic design, including design of brochures, publications, booklets, logos, posters, illustrations and diagrams.\n\nThe Office of Student Affairs (OSA) supports the educational and personal development of students at GUST and to encourage students’ personal growth. OSA is a main source of information regarding university policies and procedures that can affect students’ university lives.\n\nGUST offers athletic programs for men and women in the following sports:\n\nThe Falcons won the 4th annual UCC 2009 tournament organized every year between university teams.\n\nThe music club is composed of a group of students who play instruments including the oud, guitar, tabla, piano, drums, organ and violin. GUST Music Club has performed oriental, classical and traditional pieces for the GUST and larger Kuwaiti community. The GUST Music Club also took part in the activities of the Halla February festival and performed at GUST commencement celebrations.\n\nThe art club offers non-credit classes to GUST students with an interest in developing their artistic abilities. Classes include painting (gauche, water color, acrylic and oil), drawing and painting (on glass, ceramic, silk and wood), sketching, and decoupage. All classes are given in the North Campus. Materials and equipment are provided by GUST.\n\nThe club organizes annual art exhibitions for students and university staff, and has participated in off-campus art exhibitions including the Kuwaiti Art Association Exhibition, the Youth and Sports Ministry Exhibition, Al-Qurain Exhibition and the National Assembly Exhibition.\n\nIT Club strengthens camaraderie among GUST students by providing activities that will help them improve their skills in technical areas relevant to the IT field.\n\nThe College of Arts and Sciences has five departments:\n\nThe College of Business Administration comprises four departments: Accounting, Business Administration, Economics and Finance, and Management Information Systems (MIS), and six degree programs. GUST students are able to major in business fields including:\n\nThe first phase of the Mishref campus was completed in 2007 and accommodates up to 3,400 students. Later phases will expand the University to accommodate more than 5,500 students. In Phase 2, the concourse will be extended for additional classrooms and other facilities including a multi-story structured parking garage.\n\nThe three-story concourse runs north-south [N1] and east-west [W1] and is accessed from the two parking areas and central VIP entrance. It provides covered access to all academic and social activities and is considered a focal point for gathering, information and social interaction.\n\nThe Office of Admissions and Registration, Student Information Services (SIS), Public Relations and Marketing, and the University Library – Learning Resources Center are located near the VIP entrance. Also close to the VIP entrance are two 125 seat lecture theaters available for teaching as well as for small-scale special presentations. Prayer rooms are located near the main entrances.\n\nLimited covered parking is available for students near the north and west entrances. Part of the north parking lot is reserved for faculty and staff during regular university working hours. Other non-covered parking is also available. Access to the campus is provided from two main gates by smart cards, and a license plate recognition system.\n\nThe Physical Fitness and Health Center is connected to the north concourse at the ground and the first levels. The facility includes a 25 m indoor swimming pool with an overlooking seating area for special events. It contains an indoor basketball and volleyball court with seating area and digital score board.\n\nGUST’s Professional Advancement and Continuing Education (PACE) is connected to the main concourse. The center provides conference and training facilities for the community. It consists of two auditoria, one with 500 seats and one with 200 seats, with committee rooms and space for exhibitions and events.\n\nGUST provides student health services at a clinic located in the Physical Fitness and Health Center and operated in conjunction with a local hospital. The clinic offers medical assistance for routine check-ups; however, students with any serious medical concern are referred to a local hospital or specialized medical facilities.\n\nGUST has a security system related to fire prevention, fire-fighting safety advice and emergency evacuation procedures. Entrance and exit of people visiting GUST are monitored by security personnel, and identification is required to enter the premises. Campus facilities are protected by closed-circuit television.\n\nGUST students are provided with student identity cards which are used to access campus facilities, obtain books from the library, and pay University fees.\n\nPlasma screens throughout the campus display notices of events and are used to make university announcements.\n\nAll campus facilities are equipped with access ramps and elevators.\n\nThe GUST bookstore provides course textbooks, reference materials and other supplies.\n\nCafes and eating establishments are located along the concourse on the ground floor and offer meals, snacks, and beverages. GUST provides vending machines located along the campus and also there are eight restaurants and cafes in the campus, four in the North and four in the West area.\n\nThe restaurants and cafes are:\n\nShops include:\n\nA photocopying center is available for students from 8am – 8pm. The library and all laboratories have access to networked printers for student use.\n\nThe campus is smoke-free.\n\nThe university houses an automated teller machine provided by Boubyan Bank.\n\nThe IT infrastructure has adopted Category 7 cable technology. Every seat in every classroom, laboratory and auditorium has a hard-wired connection to the internet. The wireless internet environment is provided throughout the buildings and external landscaped courtyards. By means of the IT set-up, faculty are able to control both the teaching media and the environmental conditions. The IT system also supports building management and security facilities throughout the campus.\n\nThere are six computer laboratories located throughout the campus. These labs contain a variety of hardware, including printing and scanning capabilities, academic software, and high-speed access to the internet. A fiber optic networking infrastructure supports the computer labs and provides wireless network connectivity.\n\nThe Information Technology Department Support Services Division provides technical support for GUST students, faculty, and staff. The division maintains the computer labs and network and determines the GUST IT hardware and software requirements. It manages the GUST network security systems, oversees the wireless network system, and provides user accounts and e-mail services.\n\n"}
{"id": "1744946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1744946", "title": "Hannah Marshman", "text": "Hannah Marshman\n\nHannah Marshman (13 May 1767, Bristol – 5 March 1847, Serampore, India) was an English missionary.\n\nShe was the daughter of John Shepherd, a farmer, and his wife Rachel, and the granddaughter of John Clark, pastor of the Baptist church at Crockerton, Wiltshire.\n\nHer mother died when she was eight. In 1791 Hannah Shepherd married Joshua Marshman. In 1794, the couple moved from Westbury Leigh in Wiltshire to Bristol, where they joined the Broadmead Baptist Church. The couple were to eventually have 12 children; of these only five lived longer than their mother.\n\nHannah is considered to be the first woman missionary in India.\n\nOn 29 May 1799, Hannah, Joshua and their two children set out from Portsmouth for India aboard the ship \"Criterion\". Although there was a threat of a French naval attack, the family landed safely at the Danish settlement of Serampore (a few miles north of Calcutta) on 13 October 1799. They had chosen to land here because the East India Company was at that time hostile to missionaries. They settled in the Danish colony and were joined there by William Carey on 10 January 1800.\n\nOn 1 May 1800, Joshua and Hannah Marshman opened two boarding schools at Serampore. The schools became the most popular in the Presidency and their son John Clark Marshman received his education from his parents. He was part of the growing mission family, eating at the communal table and joining with other children in mission life. As with all other mission family members, he was encouraged to become a fluent Bengali speaker.\n\nMeanwhile, the Missionary Society had begun sending more missionaries to India. The first to arrive was John Fountain, who arrived in Mudnabatty and began a teaching school. He was followed by William Ward, a printer; David Brunsdon, one of Marshman's students; and William Grant, who died three weeks after his arrival.\n\nThe spirit of the early community's unity was somewhat broken when new missionaries arrived who were not willing to live in the communal fashion that had developed. One missionary even went as far as to demand \"...a separate house, stable and servants.\" There were also other differences, as the new missionaries found their seniors – particularly Joshua Marshman – to be somewhat dictatorial, assigning them duties which were not to their liking.\n\nIn 1800, when she first met them, Marshman was appalled by the neglect in which William Carey looked after his four boys; aged 4, 7, 12 and 15, they were unmannered, undisciplined, and even uneducated. Carey had not spoiled, but rather simply ignored them. Marshman, her husband and their friend the printer William Ward, took the boys in tow. Together they shaped the boys as Carey pampered his botanical specimens, performed his many missionary tasks and journeyed into Calcutta to teach at Fort William College. They offered the boys structure, instruction and companionship. To their credit – and little to Carey's – all four boys went on to useful careers.\n\nAt one point, Hannah wrote about Carey, \"The good man saw and lamented the evil but was too mild to apply an effectual remedy.\"\n\nOn 5 July 1818, William Carey, Joshua Marshman and William Ward issued a prospectus (written by Marshman) for a proposed new \"College for the instruction of Asiatic, Christian, and other youth in Eastern literature and European science\". Thus was born Serampore College – which still continues to this day.\n\nHannah went on to found the local girls' school.\n\nHannah Marshman died in 1847.\n\nThe following inscription to her memory is placed in the Mission Chapel at Serampore: \"In Memory of Hannah Marshman, widow of Joshua Marshman, D. D. the last surviving Member of the Mission Family at Serampore, she arrived in this settlement in October 1799, and opened a seminary to aid in the support of the Mission in May 1800, after having consecrated her life and property to the promotion of this sacred cause and exhibited an example of humble piety and energetic benevolence for forty-seven years. She died at the age of eighty, March 5, 1847.\"\n\nThe full text of her obituary in the Bengal Obituary can be found .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12664919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12664919", "title": "IBM 1500", "text": "IBM 1500\n\nThe IBM 1500 instructional system was introduced by IBM on March 31, 1966, and its primary purpose was to implement Computer Assisted Instruction (CAI). Based around either an IBM 1130 or an IBM 1800 computer, it supported up to 32 student work stations, each with a variety of audiovisual capabilities.\n\nSeeded by a research grant in 1964 from the U.S. Department of Education to the Institute for Mathematical Studies in the Social Sciences at Stanford University, the IBM 1500 CAI system was initially prototyped at the Brentwood Elementary School (Ravenswood City School District) in East Palo Alto, California by Dr. Patrick Suppes of Stanford University. The students first used the system in 1966.\n\nThe first production IBM 1500 system was shipped to Stanford University in August 1967.\n\nPreliminary versions of course materials that educators could use with the IBM 1500 were developed by Science Research Associates, Inc., an IBM subsidiary.\n\nMost educational programming on the IBM 1500 system was done in the specialized computer programming language called \"Coursewriter\".\n\nThe IBM 1500 system and its learning environment was a modern step in the history of virtual learning environments.\n\nBuck and Hunka wrote in their 1995 retrospective and historical paper that:\n\"The IBM 1500 Instructional System was the only commercial system produced by a single manufacturer that had an integrated student terminal configuration providing a keyboard and light pen response mode, CRT-based graphics, audio, and static film projection. Experimental instructional systems had been developed by IBM prior to a prototype version of the 1500 Instructional System, which was tested at Stanford University. A production version of the 1500 System with changes in the CPU and the audio system and having the capability to run a maximum of 32 student stations was installed in over 30 sites beginning in the late 1960s. IBM's commitment to the development of this system was extensive but short-lived, as most sites were unable to maintain funding support for the system. In retrospect, the IBM 1500 System had capabilities yet to be supported on the microcomputer systems of the 1990s.\" \nThe Computer Assisted Instruction (CAI) Division of the U.S. Army Signal Center and School (USASCS) at Fort Monmouth, New Jersey evaluated CAI's success in teaching basic electronics by using material presented in the tutorial mode on the IBM 1500 System, utilizing the IBM Coursewriter language, an IBM 1510 Display Console, and an IBM 1512 Image Projector.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "292242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292242", "title": "Indiana University Bloomington", "text": "Indiana University Bloomington\n\nIndiana University Bloomington (IU Bloomington, IU, or simply Indiana) is a public research university in Bloomington, Indiana, United States. It is the flagship institution of the Indiana University system and, with over 40,000 students, its largest university.\n\nIndiana University is one of America's \"Public Ivy\" universities, which denotes public universities that provide a quality of education comparable with the Ivy League. In terms of academics and other criteria, it consistently ranks in the top 100 national universities in the U.S. and among the top 50 public universities. It is a member of the Association of American Universities and has numerous schools and programs, including the Jacobs School of Music, the School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, the Kelley School of Business, the School of Public Health, the School of Nursing, the School of Optometry, the School of Public and Environmental Affairs, the Maurer School of Law, the School of Education, the Media School, and the School of Global and International Studies.\n\nAs of Fall 2017, 43,710 students attend Indiana University. While 55.1% of the student body was from Indiana, students from all 50 states, Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico and 165 countries were also enrolled. , the average ACT score is a 28 and a SAT score of 1276. The university is home to an extensive student life program, with more than 750 student organizations on campus and with around 17 percent of undergraduates joining the Greek system. Indiana athletic teams compete in Division I of the NCAA and are known as the Indiana Hoosiers. The university is a member of the Big Ten Conference; since it does not have a mascot, all teams are known simply as \"Hoosiers\".\n\nIndiana's faculty, staff, and alumni include nine Nobel laureates, 17 Rhodes Scholars, 17 Marshall Scholars, and five MacArthur Fellows. In addition, students and alumni have won six Academy Awards, 49 Grammy Awards, 32 Emmy Awards, 20 Pulitzer Prizes, four Tony Awards, and 104 Olympic medals (55 gold, 17 silver, and 32 bronze).\n\nNotable Indiana alumni include James Watson, one of the co-discoverers of the structure of DNA; Jimmy Wales, the co-founder of Wikipedia; Robert Gates, the 22nd United States Secretary of Defense; CEO and co-founder of Siri and Viv Dag Kittlaus; award-winning author Suzanne Collins, who wrote \"The Hunger Games\" series; composer and songwriter Hoagy Carmichael; John Chambers, executive chairman and former CEO of Cisco Systems; and billionaire investor Mark Cuban.\n\nIndiana's state government in Corydon established Indiana University on January 20, 1820, as the \"State Seminary.\" Construction began in 1822 at what is now called Seminary Square Park near the intersection of Second Street and College Avenue. The first professor was Baynard Rush Hall, a Presbyterian minister who taught all of the classes in 1825–27. In the first year, he taught twelve students and was paid $250. Hall was a classicist who focused on Greek and Latin and believed that the study of classical philosophy and languages formed the basis of the best education. The first class graduated in 1830. From 1820 to 1889 a legal-political battle was fought between IU and Vincennes University as to which was the legitimate state university.\nIn 1829, Andrew Wylie became the first president, serving until his death in 1851. The school's name was changed to \"Indiana College\" in 1829, and to \"Indiana University\" in 1839. Wylie and David Maxwell, president of the board of trustees, were devout Presbyterians. They spoke of the nonsectarian status of the school but generally hired fellow Presbyterians. Presidents and professors were expected to set a moral example for their charges. After six ministers in a row, the first non-clergyman to become president was the young biology professor David Starr Jordan, in 1885. Jordan followed Baptist theologian Lemuel Moss, who resigned after a scandal broke regarding his involvement with a female professor.\n\nJordan (president 1884–1891) improved the university's finances and public image, doubled its enrollment, and instituted an elective system along the lines of his alma mater, Cornell University. Jordan became president of Stanford University in June 1891.\n\nGrowth of the college was slow. In 1851, IU had nearly a hundred students and seven professors. IU admitted its first woman student, Sarah Parke Morrison, in 1867, making IU the fourth public university to admit women on an equal basis with men. Morrison went on to become the first female professor at IU in 1873.\n\nMathematician Joseph Swain was IU's first Hoosier-born president, 1893 to 1902. He established Kirkwood Hall in 1894; a gymnasium for men in 1896, which later was named Assembly Hall; and Kirkwood Observatory in 1900. He began construction for Science Hall in 1901. During his presidency, student enrollment increased from 524 to 1,285.\nIn 1883, IU awarded its first Ph.D. and played its first intercollegiate sport (baseball), prefiguring the school's future status as a major research institution and a power in collegiate athletics. But another incident that year was of more immediate concern: the original campus in Seminary Square burned to the ground. The college was rebuilt between 1884 and 1908 at the far eastern edge of Bloomington. (Today, the city has expanded eastward, and the \"new\" campus is once again in the midst of the city.) One challenge was that Bloomington's limited water supply was inadequate for its population of 12,000 and could not handle university expansion. The University commissioned a study that led to building a reservoir for its own use.\n\nIn 1902, IU enrolled 1203 undergraduates; all but 65 were Hoosiers. There were 82 graduate students including ten from out-of-state. The curriculum emphasized the classics, as befitted a gentleman, and stood in contrast to the service-oriented curriculum at Purdue, which presented itself as of direct benefit to farmers, industrialists, and businessmen.\n\nThe first extension office of IU was opened in Indianapolis in 1916. In 1920/1921 the School of Music and the School of Commerce and Finance (what later became the Kelley School of Business) were opened. In the 1940s Indiana University opened extension campuses in Kokomo and Fort Wayne. The controversial Kinsey Institute for sexual research was established in 1945.\n\nDuring the Great Depression, Indiana University fared much better than most state schools thanks to the entrepreneurship of its young president Herman Wells. He collaborated with Frederick L. Hovde, the president of IU's cross state rival, Purdue; together they approached the Indiana delegation to Congress, indicating their highest priorities. For Wells, it was to build a world-class music school, replacing dilapidated facilities. As a result of these efforts, the Works Progress Administration (WPA) built one of finest facilities in the country. He added matching funds from the state legislature, and opened a full-scale fund-raising campaign among alumni and the business community. In 1942, Wells reported that \"The past five years have been the greatest single period of expansion in the physical plant of the University in its entire history. In this period 15 new buildings have been constructed.\n\nIn 1960, the IU student body elected Thomas Atkins, an African-American from Elkhart, Indiana, to the position of president of the student body. A throng of white students protested the result by parading around campus waving Confederate flags and allegedly blamed Atkins' victory on a \"bunch of beatniks.\" When the protesters approached the female dormitory on campus, they were apparently met with \"a barrage of cosmetic bottles, old shoes and other objects.\"\n\nThe Indiana University Bloomington campus of includes abundant green space and historic buildings dating to the university's reconstruction in the late nineteenth century. In 2011, \"Travel+Leisure\" listed the University as one of the most beautiful college campuses in the United States. The campus rests on a bed of Indiana Limestone, specifically Salem Limestone and Harrodsburg Limestone, with outcroppings of St. Louis Limestone.\n\nThe \"Jordan River\" is a stream flowing through the center of campus. A section of Bloomington's Clear Creek,\nit is named for David Starr Jordan, Darwinist, ichthyologist, and president of IU, later, of Stanford University. Bloomington was ranked 5th best city for educated millennials by Business Insider. \"College Ranker\" listed Bloomington as #6 Best College Town to Live in Forever. Lumosity and VentureBeat both rank Bloomington as the 7th smartest city in America. Bloomington has been ranked the 4th \"Gayest (per-capita) City in America\" by Advocate.\n\nMany of the campus's buildings, especially the older central buildings, are made from Indiana Limestone quarried locally. The Works Progress Administration built much of the campus's core during the Great Depression. Many of the campus's buildings were built and most of its land acquired during the 1950s and 1960s when first soldiers attending under the GI Bill and then the baby boom swelled the university's enrollment from 5,403 in 1940 to 30,368 in 1970. Some buildings on campus underwent similar expansion. As additions were constructed by building onto the outside of existing buildings, exterior surfaces were incorporated into their new interiors, making this expansion clearly visible in the affected buildings' architecture. The Chemistry and Biology buildings serve as examples, where two of the interior walls of the latter's library are clearly constructed as limestone exteriors. The Bryan House is the traditional on-campus home of the university president.\n\nNine of the oldest buildings are included in a national historic district known as The Old Crescent. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980. They are the Collegiate Gothic style Student Service Building (1906–1908); Indiana University Museum (1905); Richardsonian Romanesque style Maxwell Building (1890, 1907–1908); Owen Hall (1885); Wylie Hall (1885); Kirkwood Hall (1895); Lindley Hall (1903); Gothic Revival style Rose Well House (1908); and Kirkwood Observatory (1900).\n\nThe Sample Gates serve as the entryway to Indiana University's campus and The Old Crescent. It is positioned between Franklin Hall and Bryan Hall. After several failed attempts to create an arched entrance to campus, in 1987, Edson Sample provided funding to build the archway based on the 1961 design proposed by Eggers & Higgins.\n\nThe Indiana University Cinema opened in January 2011 in the former University Theatre building, which was built in the 1930s.\n\nThe Bloomington campus also has a biology research greenhouse in Jordan Hall that is open to the public, one of the highlights of which is a corpse flower (\"Amorphophallus titanum\") named Wally. Also on campus, the Kirkwood Observatory is open to the public one day a week.\n\nThe 1979 movie \"Breaking Away\" was filmed on location in Bloomington and the IU campus. It also featured a reenactment of the annual Little 500 bicycle race. The IU campus also has trails that many use for biking and running. The trails in Bloomington and nearby areas total nearly .\n\nThe over Indiana Memorial Union (IMU) is the second largest student union in the world. In addition to stores and restaurants, it features an eight-story student activities tower (home to the Indiana University Student Association, Indiana Memorial Union Board, and a variety of other student organizations), a 186-room hotel, a 400-seat theatre, a Alumni Hall, of meeting space, and a bowling alley. The IMU houses an outstanding collection of Indiana art including artists from Brown County, the Hoosier Group, Richmond Group and others. This collection is the largest public collection of art outside of a museum.\n\nIndiana University's athletic facilities are located on campus and are grouped in between East 17th Street, Dunn Street and the IN-45/IN-46 bypass. In the 17,000-seat Assembly Hall (home to the IU NCAA basketball team), there are five NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Championship banners on display. Cook Hall, Memorial Stadium, Mellencamp Pavilion, the Gladstein Fieldhouse, the IU Tennis Center, the Billy Hayes Track and Bill Armstrong Stadium are all also located within the complex.\n\nThe Chemistry Department has a great history at Indiana University since the very early days of the college. Chemistry was first added to the curriculum in 1829 by Andrew Wylie, IU president at the time (1829-1851). The first degrees in chemistry were awarded in 1890. The graduate school at Indiana university wasn’t formally established until 1904 but not soon after, a plan for graduate work in chemistry was underway. However, the first PhD in chemistry wasn’t granted until 1921. \nA crucial event in the history of the Chemistry Department was in 1931, when the construction of a new facility explicitly for chemistry began which led to major growth within the department. Some of the departments most acclaimed and prolific faculty came to the University during this time. \nA major staple to the department is the famous Sweetheart tree that has stood outside the Chemistry Building since it was built in 1931. Even when a major addition to the building was made in the 1980s, architects decided to preserve the beloved tree and build around it. A sad day came in the spring of 2018 when the University announced the famous sweetheart tree was dying and removal was scheduled to begin on April 11. IU intends to plant a new tree in its place once the soil has recovered.\n\nThe Indiana University Bloomington Library System supports over twenty libraries and provides access to more than 9.9 million books, 800 databases, 60,000 electronic journal titles, and 815,000 ebooks. The system is the 14th largest library in North America by volumes held.\n\nIU's Herman B Wells Library holds more than 4.6 million volumes. Prior to a ceremony in June 2005, when it was renamed for IU's former president and chancellor, this building was simply called the Main Library. The architectural firm Eggers & Higgins designed the largely windowless, limestone paneled library, whose construction began in 1966 and was completed in 1969. The building contains eleven floors in the East Tower (research collection) and five floors in the West Tower (the undergraduate core collection). In 2014 the first floors of both towers were renovated and reintroduced as the Learning Commons and Scholars' Commons. The library is also home to Indiana University Press and the University Graduate School. It is the former home of the Information and Library Science Department, which is now hosted by Luddy Hall.\n\nAn oft-repeated urban legend holds that the library is sinking because when it was built, engineers failed to take into account the weight of all the books that would occupy the building. An article in the Indiana Daily Student newspaper debunks this myth, stating, among other things, that the building rests on a 94 ft (28.6 m) thick limestone bedrock.\n\nIn addition to IU's main library, the Bloomington Libraries support more than twenty additional libraries:\n\nThe Black Film Center/Archive (BFC/A), located at Indiana University, was “established in 1981 as a repository of films and related materials by and about African Americans.” Professor Phyllis R. Klotman founded the repository when it became apparent that rare and valuable films created by and about African Americans were being lost due to lack of preservation and inadequate resources.\n\nThe BFC/A has an extensive collection that includes films on various physical media, posters of numerous sizes for films distributed throughout the world, photographs and film stills, and manuscripts of filmmakers and scholars. Although the materials are not available for circulation or distribution, the archive has rooms for viewing films and utilizing materials.\n\nThe Indiana University Libraries Moving Image Archive (IULMIA) is one of the largest repositories for educational film and video in the United States. Founded in 2009, IULMIA contains over 100,000 items spanning over 80 years of audiovisual history. Highlights of its holdings include a collection of over 200 film cameras and projectors, more than 80,000 commercials from the Clio Awards, and approximately 50,000 educational films that Indiana University circulated to classrooms nationwide during the 20th century.\n\nIn 2012, the Moving Image Archive was accepted as a member of the International Federation of Film Archives.\n\nThe Lilly Library is one of the largest rare book and manuscript libraries in the United States. Founded in 1960 with the collection of Josiah K. Lilly, Jr., of Eli Lilly and Company in Indianapolis, the library now contains approximately 400,000 rare books, 6.5 million manuscripts, and 100,000 pieces of sheet music. The library's holdings are particularly strong in British and American history and literature, religious texts, Latin Americana, medicine and science, food and drink, children's literature, fine printing and binding, popular music, medieval and Renaissance manuscripts, and early printing. Notable items in the library's collections include the New Testament of the Gutenberg Bible, a first edition copy of the Book of Mormon, the first printed collection of Shakespeare's works, a pair of the Spock's ears worn by Leonard Nimoy in Star Trek VI, Audubon's Birds of America, one of 25 extant copies of the \"First Printing of the Declaration of Independence\" (also known as the \"Dunlap Broadside\") that was printed in Philadelphia on July 4, 1776, George Washington's letter accepting the presidency of the United States, Abraham Lincoln's desk from his law office, a leaf from the famous Abraham Lincoln \"Sum Book\" c. 1824–1826, Lord Chesterfield's letters to his son, the manuscripts of Robert Burns's \"Auld Lang Syne\", the Boxer Codex, annotated production scripts for \"Star Trek\", J. M. Synge's \"The Playboy of the Western World\", and J. M. Barrie's \"Peter Pan\", and typescripts of many of Ian Fleming's James Bond novels. The library also owns the papers of Hollywood directors Orson Welles and John Ford, the poets Sylvia Plath and Ezra Pound, and authors Edith Wharton, Max Eastman and Upton Sinclair. The library is also home to four Academy Awards, donated by alumni. In 2006, the library received a collection of 30,000 mechanical puzzles from Jerry Slocum. The collection will be on permanent display. Special permission is not required to use the collections, and the library has several exhibition galleries which are open to the public.\n\nWithin the Lilly Library is the Ruth E. Adomeit collection of miniature books, one of the world's largest. Among the collection are rare miniature books such as \"From Morn Till Eve\", a miniature book that presents biblical quotations in a devotional form, with one phrase for each morning and evening of a month. The Online Computer Library Center (OCLC) had listed that, \"the only known copy as being in the collection of famed miniature book collector Ruth E. Adomeit\", which is now in the Lilly Library.\n\nIU's first Fine Arts Library was established in the late 1930s as part of the Departmental office on the second floor, east wing of the University Library which was then in Franklin Hall. In 1941, two important events occurred: art historian Henry Radford Hope became chairman of the Fine Arts Department in the Fall and the Fine Arts Center was created by remodeling Mitchell Hall Annex. The Fine Arts Library moved into IU Art Museum designed by I.M. Pei in August 1981. This location was closed for renovations to the museum in spring 2017. All fine arts materials are currently located on the 9th floor of the Herman B Wells Library.\n\nThe William and Gayle Cook Music Library, recognized as one of the largest academic music libraries in the world, serves the Jacobs School of Music and the Bloomington Campus of Indiana University. It occupies a four-floor, 55,000 square-foot facility in a wing of the Bess Meshulam Simon Music Library and Recital Center, dedicated in November 1995. The collection comprises over 700,000 catalogued items on 56,733 linear feet of shelves.\n\nThe Cook Music Library holds many special collections, including audio and print collections. One notable collection contains items from Leonard Bernstein's compositional studio, including items such as clothing, furniture, recordings, books, and awards.\n\nResidence Hall Library programs began in the 1930s at Harvard University. By 1978, there were twenty-one institutions with residential library systems. Today, Indiana University has only one of two residential library programs that still operates. Additionally, Indiana University has continued to expand their residential library system, adding the most recent branch in 2017. There are currently fourteen library branches: Briscoe, Campus View Apartments, Collins LLC, Eigenmann, Forest, Foster, McNutt, Read, Spruce, Teter, Union Street Center, Wells Quad, Wilkie, and Wright. The libraries are open daily while classes are in session. Previously, half of the branches were considered Movies, Media, and More centers, and only offered DVDs and CDs. In 2018, the decision was made to have all library branches offer books in addition to movies and games. The libraries hire graduate students in Indiana University's Master of Library Science program to act as Center Supervisors, who lead a staff of seven student assistants in staffing the libraries each evening. New material is added to the libraries each week, and any student or staff member of Indiana University is able to check out material using their Crimson Card.\n\nThe Sidney and Lois Eskenazi Museum of Art, formerly known as the Indiana University Art Museum, was established in 1941 and has occupied a building designed by the world-renowned architecture firm I.M. Pei and Partners since 1982. The museum houses a collection of over 40,000 objects and includes works by Claude Monet, Marcel Duchamp, Pablo Picasso, Henri Matisse, and Jackson Pollock. The museum has particular strengths in the art of Africa, Oceania, the Americas, Ancient Greece and Rome, and European Modernism. It also holds a substantial collection of works on paper (prints, drawings, and photographs). The museum routinely has been ranked among the best university art museums in the United States.\n\nThe Mathers Museum Collections consist of over 30,000 objects and 10,000 photographs representing cultures from each of the world's inhabited continents. These materials have been collected and curated to serve the museum's primary mission as a teaching museum within a university setting. The ethnology collections strengths include traditional musical instruments, photographs of Native Americans and the Bloomington community, Inupiaq and Yupik Eskimo materials, and Pawnee material culture, among others.\n\nGrunwald Gallery of Art is the region's premier contemporary art space, featuring experimental works by significant emerging and established artists as well as by faculty and students within the Department of Studio Art.\n\nThe Indiana Memorial Union, in addition to hosting many events, holds the largest public collection of art outside a museum. The artwork within the building ranges from priceless sculptures to beautiful paintings.\n\nIndiana University is one of 62 members of the Association of American Universities, an organization of leading North American research universities.\n\nForty graduate programs and four schools at Indiana University are ranked among the top 25 in the country in the \"U.S. News & World Report\"s 2016 rankings.\nIndiana University-Bloomington's Chemistry program is ranked 24th in the United States, 5th in Analytical Chemistry. IU ranks 34th in the nation in both Biological Sciences and Math. The school is also ranked 20th in Programming Languages and 5th in Nuclear Physics. IU's graduate department of Sociology is ranked 15th in the nation; 10th in Social Stratification and 2nd in Social Psychology (1st among public universities). , IU Bloomington's Masters in Public Affairs Program is ranked #1 in the nation by U.S. News. IU is also ranked #1 in Environmental Policy and Management, Nonprofit Management, and Public Finance and Budgeting. The Kelley School of Business at IU, known for being a top-tier business school around the world, is ranked as the #1 public undergraduate business program by Bloomberg Businessweek. A 2017 report by Crist|Kolder Associates listed Indiana University 5th in the world in producing current Fortune 500 CEOs and #1 in producing Fortune 500 CFOs among public institutions.\n\nThe \"Academic Ranking of World Universities\" ranked IU Bloomington 101–150 in the world and 49–60 nationally in 2017. The institution was ranked alongside Brown University and above schools like Dartmouth College, Georgetown University and University of Notre Dame. Additionally, it ranked Indiana University-Bloomington 16th in the world for Business Administration, 7th in the world for Communication, 5th in the world for Public Administration, and 2nd in the world for Library and Information Science. \"U.S. News\" ranks IU 36th out of the top public universities in the United States. Forbes ranks IU 20th out of Public Universities.\n\nThe Office of the Provost oversees the academic programs, research, and policies of 16 schools on the Indiana University Bloomington campus.\nTogether, these units offer more than 550 individual degree programs and majors.\n\nThe College of Arts and Sciences is the largest of the University's academic divisions and home to more than 40 percent of IU's undergraduates. In addition, the College offers many electives and general education courses for students enrolled in most other schools on campus. There are more than 50 academic departments in the College, encompassing a broad range of disciplines from the traditional (such as Anthropology, Art History, Biology, Biochemistry, Chemistry, Classics, English, Economics, Geography, History, Mathematics, Philosophy, Physics, Political Science, Religious Studies, and Sociology) to more modern and specialized areas, including Jewish Studies, History and Philosophy of Science and Medicine, and International Studies. Through the College, IU also offers instruction in over 50 foreign languages, one of the largest language study offerings at any American university. IU is the only university in the nation that offers a degree in Hungarian (although it was done through the Individualized Major Program) and is the first university in the United States to offer a doctorate in Gender Studies. The Department of Geography has highly recognized programs in climate and environmental change, GIS, human-environment interaction, and human geography. Indiana University is also home to the nation's only degree-granting Department of Central Eurasian Studies. The university's catalog at one time boasted that a student could study any language from Akan to Zulu. The College is the parent division for fifteen individual research institutes and holds the distinction of being the only academic division within the university to house autonomous schools (The School of Art + Design, The School of Global and International Studies, and the Media School) within it. A number of first- and second-year students from the Indiana University School of Medicine (which is based at IUPUI) complete their preclinical education at the Bloomington campus's Medical Science Program, which is housed within the Department of Biology and the Indiana Molecular Biology Institute. The College is also home to the Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology, the first formally established academic department in folklore at any United States university, and the only such department to integrate these two practices into one field. IU also features a world-class cyclotron operated by the Department of Physics. The College also houses IU's Department of Theatre, Drama, and Contemporary Dance which offers a Bachelor of Arts in Theatre, a BFA in Contemporary Dance, a Master of Fine Arts in Acting, Directing, Playwriting or Design/Technology, and a BFA in Musical Theatre. In 2009, professor of political science Elinor Ostrom became the first woman to win the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences since its inception in 1969.\n\nThe School of Art, Architecture and Design houses fourteen different areas in art, architecture, design, and merchandising.\n\nThe SGIS is an international affairs school composed of over 500 students from four academic departments and twenty-one institutes and centers. It also runs the Indiana University Summer Language Workshop (SWSEEL).\n\nThe Media School was established on July 1, 2014. Its faculty teaches in these areas:\n\nAdmission into the Hutton Honors College requires students to have the following minimum requirements:\n\"OR\"\n\nFounded in the beginning of the 20th century by Charles Campbell, the Jacobs School of Music focuses on voice, opera, orchestral conducting, and jazz studies. It has been ranked #1 in the country tied with Juilliard and Eastman School of Music by \"U.S. News & World Report\". U.S. News has not since published a music school ranking. Jacobs still ranks highly among other publications. The Hollywood Reporter ranked the Jacobs School of Music #4 in the world. \"Music School Central\" currently ranks Jacobs #1 in the nation.\n\nWith more than 1,600 students, the school is one of the largest of its kind in the US and among the largest in the world. The school's facilities, including five buildings in the heart of campus, comprise recital halls, more than 170 practice rooms, choral and instrumental rehearsal rooms, and more than 100 offices and studios. Its faculty has included such notable names as David Effron, Arthur Fagen, János Starker, Costanz Cuccaro, Timothy Noble, André Watts, Menahem Pressler, Linda Strommen, Abbey Simon, Jorge Bolet, Ray Cramer, David Baker, William Bell, Harvey Phillips, Earl Bates, Carol Vaness, Sylvia McNair, Howard Klug, violinist Joshua Bell, conductor Leonard Slatkin, and composer Sven-David Sandström. Notable alumni include Edgar Meyer and soprano Angela Brown. Many alumni have gone on to win Grammy's and other music awards.\n\nThe Kelley School of Business (known colloquially as \"Kelley\" or \"The B-School\") was founded in 1920 as the University's School of Commerce and Finance. Approximately 6,100 students are enrolled in undergraduate, graduate Accountancy and Information Systems degrees, MBA and PhD programs, and online degree program Kelley Direct.\n\nIn order for incoming freshmen to be considered for direct admission into Kelley, they must meet/exceed the following requirements:\n\nThe Kelley School of Business undergraduate program has been ranked top 15 in the nation for over fifteen years and top 10 in the last four, across various publications.\n\nIn its 2017 rankings, \"U.S. News & World Report\" ranked the undergraduate program tied for 9th in the nation and the MBA program tied for 21st in the U.S., with the online MBA program ranking 3rd. In 2007, the \"Wall Street Journal\" ranked Kelley's MBA program fifth in the nation among regional programs. Kelley's programs in consumer products and energy and industrial products and services were second, marketing was third and accounting, eighth.\n\n\"Business Week\" ranked the undergraduate program 8th in 2014 (3rd among public schools) and the graduate program 15th in the nation in 2008 and fourth among public schools. In addition, \"Business Week\" gave the undergraduate program an A in teaching and an A+ in career services. In 2016, \"Business Week\" ranked the undergraduate program 4th in the nation, #1 among public universities. The 2016 ranking for \"Best Undergraduate Business Schools\" by Poets & Quants ranked the Kelley School of Business 7th in the nation and 2nd among public schools. Kelley is also ranked 2nd in academic excellence. It lists a selective acceptance rate well under 40% with more than 75% of students being in their high school's \"Top 10\", and average ACT/SAT scores of 30/1390.\n\nPoets & Quants also ranked Kelley's MBA program 5th in the nation in producing Fortune 500 CEOs. In 2017, the Economist ranked the MBA program 17th in the nation, and 22nd in the world. It was ranked 7th in terms of percentage increase from pre-MBA salary.\n\nKelley partners with the Scotts Miracle-Gro Company to offer Bloomington Brands, a unique work-study program for undergraduates and MBA students. Participating students obtain real-world brand management experience by managing the Osmocote Plant Food brand under contract to Scotts. Kelley also partners with Coca-Cola for a program called Global Business Institute that is available in the Middle East, North Africa, and Asia. This is a program that was designed to let select groups of students in participating countries to learn about business from the context of American culture. Many classes partner with corporations and have students work on projects affecting the company. Most notably, in freshman year, students hold a in-class case competition for their required Business Presentations class, with a case provided by Macy's. The final four teams present in front of Macy's executives and the winning team is flown to the Macy's offices in New York City.\n\nIn the 2016 fiscal year alone, the Top 20 Distinguished Corporate Sponsors of Kelley gave over $1.2 million in support.\n\nThe Maurer School of Law, founded in 1842, is one of the oldest schools on the Bloomington campus. It features a law library recently ranked first in the nation and is situated on the southwest corner of campus. In 2000, then-Chief Justice William Rehnquist presided over a mock trial of King Henry VIII in the school's moot courtroom. In the 2016 \"U.S. News & World Report\" rankings, the school was ranked tied for 25th in the nation among law schools. Notable alumni from the School of Law include songwriter Hoagy Carmichael, and Vice-Chairman of the 9/11 Commission and former congressman Lee H. Hamilton.\nOn December 4, 2008, the school of law was renamed the Michael Maurer School of Law.\n\nThe School of Education, formerly a part of the College of Arts and Science, has been independent since 1923. One of the largest schools of education in the United States, it was ranked 25th in the nation by \"U.S. News & World Report\" in its 2016 rankings. It offers a range of degrees in professional education: a B.S. in teacher education leading to a teaching license, M.S., education specialist (Ed. S.) and doctoral (Ed. D, Ph.D.) degrees.\n\nIn 1999, the Indiana University School of Informatics was established as an environment for research professors and students to develop new uses for information technology in order to solve specific problems in areas as diverse as biology, fine arts, and economics. This was the first school of Informatics established in the United States. Informatics is also interested in \"how people transform technology, and how technology transforms us.\" In 2005 the Department of Computer Science moved from the College of Arts and Sciences to the School of Informatics, prompting the school to expand its name to \"School of Informatics and Computing\". This move merged several faculty, bringing the total core faculty to over 100. Informatics also has strong ties with the Media School, Jacobs School of Music, and the Cognitive Science program.\n\nThe School is one of a handful that offer degrees in Human-Computer Interaction. The School offers master's degrees in Human-Computer Interaction Design, Music Informatics, Bioinformatics, Chemical Informatics, Security Informatics, Intelligent Systems Engineering, Computer Science, and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science, Informatics, and Intelligent Systems Engineering. Specialization areas for the Ph.D. in Computer Science include artificial intelligence, databases, distributed systems, formal methods, high-performance computing, programming languages, and security. The Informatics Ph.D. program offers tracks in bioinformatics, cheminformatics, complex systems, human-computer interaction design, logic and mathematical foundations of informatics, music informatics, security informatics, and social informatics.\n\nThe School has three departments:\n\nThe School of Public and Environmental Affairs (or SPEA) is the largest school of its kind in the United States. Founded in 1972, SPEA is known for its distinctive interdisciplinary approach. It brings together the social, natural, behavioral, and administrative sciences in one faculty. SPEA has a sister \"core\" campus at Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (or IUPUI) and an affiliate program is operated at Indiana University's Gary campus.\n\nIn their 2016 rankings, \"U.S. News & World Report\" rated SPEA ranked tied for first in the nation, with five of its programs ranked in the top 10: environmental policy and management 1st, nonprofit management 1st, public finance and budgeting 1st, public management administration 3rd, and public policy analysis 7th. Similar rankings do not yet exist for graduate schools of environmental science or for undergraduate schools in either public affairs or environmental science.\n\nSPEA is the headquarters of the Public Administration Review, the premier journal of public administration research, theory, and practice. SPEA is also home to the Journal of Policy Analysis and Management, the Journal of Public Budgeting and Finance and Small Business Economics.\n\nSPEA has more than a dozen joint programs in social and natural sciences and professional fields. Popular majors include nonprofit management, public policy, public finance, and arts administration. SPEA alumni include radio and television host Tavis Smiley and former U.S. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill. Among SPEA's faculty was Elinor Ostrom, the first woman to receive the Nobel Prize in Economics. She was named by Time Magazine one of the 100 most influential people in the United States.\n\nEstablished in 2012 the school and programs have grown to encompass a broad spectrum of academic interests and professional fields. The school was founded in 1946 as the School of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation. It transitioned into the School of Public Health-Bloomington and was renamed in September 2012. It was accredited by the Council on Education in Public Health in June 2015.\n\nThe school has nearly 3,000 students and 24,000 living alumni, with undergraduate and advanced degree programs offered through five academic departments: Applied Health Science, Environmental Health, Epidemiology & Biostatistics, Kinesiology, and Recreation, Park, & Tourism Studies. The Division of Campus Recreational Sports within the IU School of Public Health-Bloomington provides sport and fitness opportunities for the IU community and the public.\n\nThe school has numerous centers, institutes, and specialized laboratories, including the Center for Sexual Health Promotion, the Indiana Prevention Resource Center, the National Center on Accessibility, the Rural Center for AIDS/STD Prevention, among others.\n\nThe school's resources include more than of research and teaching laboratories, and nearly of indoor and outdoor sport and fitness facilities, including recreation centers, aquatics centers, and acreage that includes Bradford Woods.\n\nThe Indiana University School of Social Work was founded in 1911 as the Department of Social Service, thus making it the oldest professional social work education program begun and continuously functioning as a part of a university. In July 2007, the Indiana University Division of Labor Studies merged with the School of Social Work.\n\n\nThe Indiana University Training School for Nurses was established in Indianapolis in 1914 in conjunction with the establishment of the Robert W. Long Hospital and in association with the IU School of Medicine to offer training leading to a nursing diploma. It was renamed the IU School of Nursing in 1956.\nIn the 1930s a Division of Nursing Education under the IU School of Education was created on the Bloomington campus to offer additional training to nursing students seeking B.S.; an M.S. degree program was added in 1945. Today, the School of Nursing is located at several of the IU campuses, with Indianapolis and Bloomington being the main locations. its degree programs include a four-year Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree, a Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) degree, and two doctoral degrees: Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) and Doctor of Philosophy in nursing (Ph.D.).\n\nThe National League for Nursing has recognized the School as a Center of Excellence in two categories simultaneously for creating environments that: Promote the Pedagogical Expertise of Faculty and Creating Environments (effective 2006–22) and Advance the Science of Nursing Education (effective 2012–21). The IU School of Nursing ranks eighth among public universities who receive funding from the National Institutes of Health. Almost forty percent of the baccalaureate prepared professional nurses in Indiana graduate from the IU School of Nursing each year. In 2017 the \"U.S. News & World Report\" ranked the IU School of Nursing twenty-eighth for its master's degree program and twenty-third for its Doctor of Nursing Practice degree among U.S. colleges and universities; its online graduate program ranked thirty-ninth.\n\nThe Indiana University School of Optometry was founded 1951. The school became a degree-granting institution of its own in 1975. Located at the southwest border of campus the Doctor of Optometry (OD) program admits on average 70-80 students per year.\n\nThe school operates a community eye care clinic in Bloomington and a clinic in Indianapolis. In addition to providing optometric education, the facility also houses the Borish Center for Ophthalmic Research, officially dedicated in October 1995. The Borish Center provides opportunities for undergraduate, professional, and graduate students to participate directly in vision research.\n\nIndiana University's Graduate school offers 190 degree and certification programs. IU boasts that on average, their PhD students take less time to complete their degrees compared to peers in similar institutions. For example, students who seek a PhD in Social Sciences take, on average, almost a year less to complete the degree than students from peer universities.\n\nIn 2007-08, the Graduate and Professional Student Organization partnered with the Graduate to create the Emissaries for Graduate Student Diversity. Emissaries work either towards outreach and enrollment or retention and community building. Outreach and enrollment emissaries inform prospective students about opportunities at IU. They also help them navigate the admissions process. The retention and community building Emissaries act as mentors for current students. The Graduate School has its own student government (Graduate and Professional Student Government, or GPSG). They collaborate with faculty to help improve the quality of services offered to graduate students attending Indiana University.\n\nIU's intercollegiate athletics program has a long tradition in several key sports. From its beginnings with baseball in 1867, the Hoosier athletic program has grown to include over 600 male and female student-athletes on 24 varsity teams boasting one of the nation's best overall records. Sports sponsored by the university include football, men's basketball, women's basketball, cross country and track, softball, baseball, golf, tennis, rowing, volleyball, swimming and diving, and wrestling\n\nThe Hoosiers became a member of the Big Ten Conference on December 1, 1899. The school's national affiliation is with the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). National team titles (now totaling 26; 25 NCAA, 1 AIAW) have been won in nine men's sports and one women's sport (tennis), topped by a record-setting six straight men's swimming & diving titles, eight men's soccer crowns and five titles in men's basketball. Indiana University's men's basketball team is one of the most decorated programs in the nation, having won five national championships. Indiana student-athletes have won 133 NCAA individual titles, including 79 in men's swimming and diving and 31 in men's track and field. In addition, IU teams have won or shared 157 Big Ten Conference championships.\n\nThe IU athletics endowment is $42 million, the largest in the Big Ten Conference. The Varsity Club, which is the fundraising arm of the Athletics Department, drew a record $11.5 million in gifts and pledges in the fiscal year 2004–05. In addition, overall annual giving has increased 8.3% in the last year and 44.8 percent in the last three years.\n\nIn addition to its rich tradition in intervarsity sports, IU also boasts a strong reputation in many non-varsity sports. Many of these \"club\" teams, especially those in ice hockey and rugby union, have achieved a great deal of success in intercollegiate competition. Hurling has also become more popular, with the Indiana University Hurling Club becoming the first American national champions in history. The consistent success of these athletic clubs has several times led the university to establish varsity programs in sports in which there had previously not been a team for NCAA intervarsity competition.\n\nA large percentage of the IU student body regularly participates in both formal and/or informal intramural sports, including football, soccer, tennis, basketball, and golf. Among intramural athletics, IU's reputation for student participation and instruction in the martial arts is particularly strong.\n\nMedia outlets of Indiana University include:\n\nWith over 1,823 full-time faculty members, Indiana University leads the Big Ten public universities in the number of endowed faculty positions, with 333 chairs, professorships, and curators. IUB also reported in fall 2004 that it employed 334 part-time faculty, totaling 1,877 full-time equivalents. Of the full-time faculty, 76% were tenured. Like the student body, IUB's faculty is predominantly white. Of full-time administrators, faculty, and lecturers, 118 (6%) were Asian, 74 (4%) were African-American, 62 (4%) were Hispanic, 5 (0.3%) were Native American, and 1,535 (85%) were \"other.\" More men (62%) than women held academic appointments at the university.\n\nProfessors at IUB were better paid than their counterparts in the IU system. A full professor earned an average of $126,500, an associate professor $89,000, and an assistant professor $74,400.\n\nTop 5 Indiana counties for enrollment\n\nIU Bloomington's Von Lee Theatre building is LEED Certified. The \"More Art, Less Trash\" recycling initiative included a design contest for recycling bin artwork and promotes both recycling and outdoor art. The university employs a group of student sustainability interns each summer, and students can get involved in campus and community-based sustainability initiatives through the Volunteers in Sustainability coordination group or the Student Sustainability Council.\n\nA campus bus system operates several routes on a regular schedule around the IUB campus throughout the semesters. In December 2014, a shuttle service (\"Campus Connection\") has been introduced between the IUB and the IUPUI campus as well. The campus buses are free to all and handicap accessible. IU students and employees also gain free access to Bloomington transit buses around the city.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2334708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2334708", "title": "Instituto Nacional de Matemática Pura e Aplicada", "text": "Instituto Nacional de Matemática Pura e Aplicada\n\nThe Instituto National de Matemática Pura e Aplicada (IMPA; ) is widely considered to be the foremost research and educational institution of Brazil in the area of mathematics. It is located in the city of Rio de Janeiro, and was formerly known simply as \"Instituto de Matemática Pura e Aplicada\", hence its official abbreviation.\n\nAs of 2015, IMPA does research in algebra, analysis, differential geometry, partial differential equations, computer graphics, fluid dynamics, holomorphic dynamics, mathematical economics, symplectic geometry, algebraic geometry, optimization, probability theory, dynamical systems, and ergodic theory. It is aiming to expand its lines of research to include topology, number theory, combinatorics, and discrete mathematics in general and its applications.\n\nArtur Avila, a 2014 Fields Medalist, is a researcher at IMPA and received his Ph.D there. Among its researchers also are Jacob Palis, Elon Lages Lima, Maurício Peixoto, Manfredo do Carmo, Marcelo Viana, Welington de Melo, Enrique Pujals, Harold Rosenberg, Marcos Dajczer, Carlos Gustavo Moreira, Fernando Codá Marques, César Camacho, Arnaldo Garcia, Alfredo Noel Iusem, Karl-Otto Stöhr, Robert Morris, and Carolina Araujo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3404750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3404750", "title": "Knowledge Master Open", "text": "Knowledge Master Open\n\nThe Knowledge Master Open (commonly known as Knowledge Masters or KMO) was a computer-based semiannual worldwide academic competition produced by Academic Hallmarks. During KMO competitions, teams of students from many schools earned points by answering multiple-choice questions quickly and accurately. The questions included fifteen subject areas: American history, world history, government, recent events, economics & law, geography, literature, English, math, physical science, biology, earth science, health & psychology, fine arts, and useless trivia. \n\nThe competition started in 1983 with 74 schools. In 2009, there were about 45,000 participants from over 3,000 high schools and middle schools in the U.S. and other countries. The last contest occurred in April 2013. Over the 30 years of KMO competition, more than 2.4 million students participated.\nThere were five levels of competition. 5th and 6th grade contests were held in January and March and consisted of 100 questions. On the other hand, middle school (up to grade 8), junior high (up to grade 9), and high school (up to grade 12) contests were held in December and April and consisted of 200 questions.\n\nThe Academic Hallmarks and Knowledge Masters mascot is a great auk with an affinity for puns.\n\nEach participating school received a password-protected disk (originally a floppy disk, later a CD-ROM) containing the contest questions. Only the first use of the password would generate a valid score report for submission to Academic Hallmarks. Team size was left to each individual school's discretion.\n\nAll questions were multiple-choice, with a maximum value of 10 points each. Each question and its category were displayed on screen, with five choices and a 60-second timer. A correct answer on the first try awarded five points, with up to five bonus points depending on the response time. If time expired or an incorrect response was given, the timer was reset to 60 seconds and the team was given a second chance to answer. Two points were awarded for a correct second-chance response, with no bonus.\n\nBonus points were awarded for correct first-try answers as follows:\n\nTeams could take up to three 5-minute breaks during the contest. They could use pencil and paper, but no other resources such as calculators or reference books, and assistance from coaches or spectators was not allowed.\n\nOnce a particular contest was over, the participating schools could use a second password to unlock the questions for unlimited use in practice sessions.\n\nAccording to the official web site, the following is the list of recent winners:\n\n"}
{"id": "39502015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39502015", "title": "Laurent Hilaire", "text": "Laurent Hilaire\n\nLaurent Hilaire (born 8 November 1962) is a French ballet dancer. Regarded as one of the greatest dancers to emerge from ballet over the past few decades, he was etoile (principal dancer) of the Paris Opera Ballet for 22 years. From 2011 he was the associate artistic director of the Paris Opera Ballet and a ballet master with the company from 2005 to 2014\n\nHilaire joined the Paris Opera Ballet school in 1975 and entered the company's corps de ballet in 1979, aged 17. On 2 November 1985 he was promoted to etoile (a top-billing principal dancer) by Rudolf Nureyev after a performance of Swan Lake.\n\nLaurent Hilaire became a ballet master with the company in 2005, occasionally performing as an etoile until he made his farewell performance on 14 February 2007. For it he performed George Balanchine's \"Apollo\" and Maurice Bejart's \"Song of A Wayfarer,\" in which he was partnered by Manuel Legris. After his farewell performance Hilaire was awarded Commander of Ordre des Arts et des Lettres, the highest rank of the order.\n\nOfficer of Ordre des Arts et des Lettres \"1998\"<br>\nMale Dancer, Benois de la Danse \"2004\"<br>\nChevalier of Legion of Honour \"2004\"<br>\nCommander of Ordre des Arts et des Lettres \"2007\"<br>\nLifetime Achievement, Benois de la Danse \"2007\"\n"}
{"id": "56950499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56950499", "title": "Lemma Senbet Fund", "text": "Lemma Senbet Fund\n\nThe Lemma Senbet Fund is a student managed investments fund offered as a limited-enrollment year-round experiential learning course to top tier undergraduate students from the Robert H. Smith School of Business at the University of Maryland (UMD).\n\nThe fund, named for Lemma Wolde Senbet, the William E. Mayer Chair Professor of Finance at the Smith School of the University of Maryland, was founded in 2006 with initial capital of $50,000 from the school's endowment fund.\n\nThe investment management team consists of 12 undergraduate students chosen through an interview and presentation process designed to simulate the hiring process of investment banking firms. The team consists of 2 portfolio managers and 10 equity analysts each dedicated to a specific industry sector: consumer products (discretionary), consumer products (staples), energy, financial services, healthcare, industrials, information technology, materials, telecommunications, and utilities. Each sector analyst pitches approximately 4 stocks per year, and must persuade all 12 members (not just a majority) of the investment team to buy. The student investment management team uses Bloomberg Professional Services running on Bloomberg Terminals to conduct in-depth financial analysis, manage the asset portfolio, and execute security trades. The students are unpaid, and do not share in the fund gains nor receive distributions.\n\nThe long-term performance goal of the Lemma Senbet Fund is to outpace appreciation of the S&P 500 Index on a risk-adjusted basis. Historically, the fund has adopted a top-down investment approach that is driven by Economic indicators, then Industry trends, and finally individual Company perfornance (EIC). Most asset instruments are long equity positions. Specific stock selections are based on a combination of fundamental analysis and technical analysis valuation techniques under the Growth at a Reasonable Price (GARP) model.\n\nSince founding in 2006, even after annual distributions the Lemma Senbet Fund has grown 18-fold from $50,000 to $911,032 (fiscal year ended March 31, 2017).\n\nThe Lemma Senbet fund pays a 5% distribution to the UMD Deans Office each year. In 2017, this distribution amounted to $37,729.\n"}
{"id": "47603957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47603957", "title": "List of archives in Switzerland", "text": "List of archives in Switzerland\n\nThis is a list of archives in Switzerland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11483466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11483466", "title": "Microjazz", "text": "Microjazz\n\nMicrojazz is a long-running series of sheet music publications by New Zealand-born British pianist and composer Christopher Norton. The series is published by Boosey & Hawkes.\nBased on classical technique yet using popular contemporary styles such as jazz, blues, rock 'n' roll and funk, \"Microjazz\" aims to \"develop musicianship and technique through the familiar sounds and styles of popular music\". The series has established itself as a leading educational music series around the world, and has expanded over 20 years to include music for all of the major instruments with piano, ensemble books and midi file backings. It is now the biggest selling music series for Boosey & Hawkes, with over a million sales to date.\n\n"}
{"id": "47798504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47798504", "title": "National Board for Technical Education", "text": "National Board for Technical Education\n\nThe National Board for Technical Education, otherwise known as NBTE, is a board of education which supervises, regulates and oversee educational programmes offered by technical institutions at secondary, polytechnic and monotechnic levels through an accreditation process. It was established by Act No 9 of 11 July 1977 with the aim of \"providing standardised minimum guide curricula for Technical and Vocational Education and Training\".\n\n"}
{"id": "17927417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17927417", "title": "National Medical Challenge Bowl", "text": "National Medical Challenge Bowl\n\nThe National Medical Challenge Bowl is a competition coordinated by Max Yakimov from the Student Academy of the American Academy of Physician Assistants.\n\nThe competition is held during the AAPA's Annual PA Conference and the event is organized in a medical quiz bowl-style. Forty-eight teams, with three PA students to a team, compete to answer medical-related questions. Questions are asked on a variety of subjects including physical diagnosis, microbiology, anatomy, OB/GYN, pulmonary, cardiology, primary care, emergency medicine, and surgery. Only AAPA student members currently enrolled in an accredited Physician Assistant program which has a registered student society are eligible to participate.\n\nThe Challenge Bowl started at the 1991 AAPA Annual Conference in San Francisco, CA. It has been held as an annual event at the conference every year since. Several states have followed this tradition and hold annual state competitions which are molded after the same format as the national competition. The competition is one of the most anticipated events at every Annual Conference. Several students of the various schools participating often attend the event and it is also very popular among the participants of the Conference as they go to cheer on their alma mater.\n\nTeams play in a round-robin format; with preliminary rounds, semi-final rounds and one final round.\nThe moderator reads the questions, the first team to buzz in is acknowledged by the moderator and permitted 10 seconds to answer.\n\nThe moderator does not complete the question if a team buzzes in before the full question is read.\nIf the team that buzzes in answers incorrectly, the moderator re-reads the question and then allows other team(s) an opportunity to respond. Ten seconds are allowed for response and only one response per team is accepted after a team has buzzed in.\n\nThe team with the most points at the end of the round advances to the next round. The team with the most points at the end of the final round is declared the winner. In the event of a tie between the two highest scoring teams in the round, a \"sudden death\" playoff is held and the team to correctly answer a question wins the round. If the team answers incorrectly, the other team wins.\n\nTen points are awarded for each question answered correctly. Ten points are deducted for each incorrect response. If a team buzzes in and then fails to answer, it is counted as an incorrect response.\nTeam members must speak loudly and clearly into the microphone. If the moderator questions the pronunciation of an answer, they may request the team to spell the word in question. If the spelling is correct, points are awarded. If the pronunciation and spelling are ruled incorrect, points are deducted.\n\n"}
{"id": "52581372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52581372", "title": "Nazarbayev University Repository", "text": "Nazarbayev University Repository\n\nNazarbayev University Repository (NUR) is an institutional online archive created to accumulate, store, and provide open access to scientific research results and intellectual products of the academic community of Nazarbayev University. It is designed to store, index, distribute, and preserve the digital materials of the University using DSpace software. The repository content and interface are in English, Kazakh and Russian.\nThe repository was founded on August 15, 2014 and now contains over 1800 scholarly works.\n\nMultiple educational institutions and organisations use he NUR including National Laboratory Astana, NU Research and Innovation, Kazakhstan National Geographic Society Corporate Fund.\n\nMaterial available in the repository include: academic articles, PhD and masters dissertations and theses, conference proceedings, technical reports, books, images, and video presentations.\n\nhttp://www.opendoar.org\nhttp://roar.eprints.org\nhttp://repositories.webometrics.info/en/Asia/Kazakstan\nhttp://nur.nu.edu.kz/handle/123456789/1573\n"}
{"id": "20959122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20959122", "title": "Popular history", "text": "Popular history\n\nPopular history is a broad and somewhat ill-defined genre of historiography that takes a popular approach, aims at a wide readership, and usually emphasizes narrative, personality and vivid detail over scholarly analysis. The term is used in contradistinction to professional academic or scholarly history writing which is usually more specialized and technical and, thus, less accessible to the general reader.\n\nSome popular historians are without academic affiliation while others are academics, or former academics, that have (according to one writer) \"become somehow abstracted from the academic arena, becoming cultural commentators\". Many worked as journalists, perhaps after taking an initial degree in history.\n\nPopular historians may become nationally renowned or best-selling authors and may or may not serve the interests of particular political viewpoints in their roles as \"public historians\". Many authors of \"official histories\" and \"authorized biographies\" would qualify as popular historians serving the interests of particular institutions or public figures.\n\nPopular historians aim to appear on the \"general lists\" of general publishers, rather than the university presses that have dominated academic publishing in recent years. Increasingly, popular historians have taken to television where they are able, often accompanying a series of documentaries with a tie-in book.\n\nRecent examples of American popular historians with academic affiliations include Stephen Ambrose, Doris Kearns Goodwin and Pauline Maier. Non-academics include Bruce Catton, Shelby Foote, David McCullough, Daniel Boorstin and Barbara Tuchman.\n\nRecent examples of British popular historians who are also academics include Niall Ferguson, Christopher Hibbert and Simon Schama, and – from a previous generation – Eric Hobsbawm, Paul Johnson, E. P. Thompson, A. J. P. Taylor (an early pioneer of history on television) and Christopher Hill. Much of Hugh Trevor-Roper's output was also directed at a popular audience.\n\nJohn Julius Norwich, Nirad Chaudhuri, Ramchandra Guha, Charles Allen and Tariq Ali are popular historians who have never been academics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13348815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13348815", "title": "Ray Kappe", "text": "Ray Kappe\n\nRay Kappe (born August 4, 1927) is an American architect and educator. In 1972, he resigned his position as Founding Chair of the Department of Architecture at California State Polytechnic University, Pomona and along with a group of faculty and students, started what eventually came to be known as the Southern California Institute of Architecture (SCI-Arc). In 2003, Kappe began working with LivingHomes to design modular homes.)\n\nKappe is still actively involved in architectural theory and practice, particularly in the areas of sustainability and the prefabrication of residences.\n\nRay Kappe was born in Minneapolis as the son of Romanian immigrants. He attended high school in Los Angeles. He studied for a single semester at UCLA in 1945 before being drafted in into the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers, where he served as a topographical surveying instructor. After his discharge he attended the University of California, Berkeley, and earned a B.Arch degree in 1951.\n\nThe Ray Kappe Archive is housed at the Getty Research Institute and contains all of his drawings, models, and papers, offering comprehensive coverage of his long and varied career.\n\nThe Showtime series Californication features one of Kappe's projects, the Benton House, as a major plot point in Episode Seven, \"Girls Interrupted.\" The interior of this house is also featured on the CBS series Shark and in the movie Cruel Intentions. \n\nAnother of his projects made two brief appearances in the Sea Hunt episode, \"Hit and Run,\" as the residence of the episode's villain. This house was also featured in the Home section of the Los Angeles Times, in an article titled, \"A Boat, a Bay, and a Happy House.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "31185260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31185260", "title": "Regulations on children's television programming in the United States", "text": "Regulations on children's television programming in the United States\n\nThe broadcast of children's programming by terrestrial television stations in the United States is regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), under regulations colloquially referred to as the Children's Television Act (CTA), the E/I rules, or the Kid Vid rules. Since 1997, all full-power and Class A low-power television stations have been required to broadcast at least three hours (or more if they operate digital subchannels) per-week of programs that are specifically designed to meet the educational and informative (E/I) needs of children aged 16 and younger. There are also regulations on advertising in broadcast and cable television programming targeting children 12 and younger, including limits on ad time, and prohibitions on advertising of products related to the program currently airing.\n\nEarly regulations on educational programming were implemented by the FCC in 1991, as ordered by the Children's Television Act—an Act of Congress passed in 1990. They included a requirement for television stations to document their broadcasting of programs which \"[further] the positive development of children 16 years of age and under in any respect, including the child's intellectual/cognitive or social/emotional needs\", and a requirement for the FCC to use this as a factor in license renewals. Stricter regulations were implemented in 1997, requiring all stations to broadcast at least 3 hours of programming per-week that is designed to educate and inform viewers aged 16 and younger, and introducing requirements regarding on-air identification of these programs, and more stringent reporting requirements.\n\nThe E/I regulations had a major impact on U.S. television; the syndication market was bolstered by demand for compliant educational programming, while the Saturday morning cartoon blocks traditionally aired by major networks began to increase their focus on educational children's programming. They were one of several factors that contributed to the decline of networked Saturday morning blocks, alongside the growth of cable channels (such as Cartoon Network and Nickelodeon) and other platforms serving youth demographics—which were not subject to the rule. By the 2010s, the Big Three networks and Fox had revamped their Saturday morning blocks to focus on factual programs aimed towards teens (which, additionally, excluded them from the restrictions on advertising load), with the majority having leased the airtime to the distributor Litton Entertainment. In 2014, The CW discontinued the last networked Saturday-morning block to still feature non-educational programming, in favor of another Litton-run block.\n\nThe educational programming regulations have faced mixed reception. There have historically been concerns over whether these mandates constitute a violation of broadcasters' rights to free speech. The FCC's initial regulations faced criticism for being too broad in its definition of children's educational programming, with stations attempting to various classify non-educational programs as containing educational elements. The regulations have been described by current FCC commissioner Michael O'Rielly as \"onerous\" and outdated due to the cable and new media platforms that have emerged since their introduction.\n\nConcern over the impact that television had on children began when television was still a new entertainment medium. During the 1950s, many individuals, particularly parents, asked their legislators to do something about the potential effects of television viewing on young people. Academic research was initiated since this time to monitor, analyze and explain the relationships between television and children, although the impact of television on academic performance continues to be debated in scholarly research. The first attempt to address these concerns were during Congressional hearings in 1952 that addressed violence. Besides Congress, there were government commissions that also pursued this agenda. Included in these discussions were the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the Federal Trade Commission, and advocacy groups formed by concerned citizens. The FCC intended to change a number of policies regarding children's programming.\n\nResearch demonstrated that young children had difficulty distinguishing between the program they were watching, and commercials broadcast during them. Most children had little or no understanding of the persuasive intent of commercials, and as such, were highly vulnerable to claims and appeals by advertisers. Advertisers, especially those related to junk food, were interested in youth as consumers because of their spending power through their parents, their influence, and their brand awareness as adult consumers in the future.\n\nThe lobbying group Action for Children's Television (ACT), which was founded by activist Peggy Charren, actively campaigned for higher-quality children's programming to be broadcast by television stations. The group was critical of the lack of educational programming on television—believing that it was part of broadcasters' obligations to serve the public interest, and also acknowledging programs they felt were meant solely as a promotional tool for associated toylines (such as \"He-Man and the Masters of the Universe\" and \"My Little Pony\") rather than legitimate entertainment. The cancellations of ABC's \"Animals, Animals, Animals\" and CBS's children's newsmagazine \"30 Minutes\", were cited by ACT as examples of the major networks' decreasing commitment to educational programming. \n\nIn 1982, the Reagan administration's FCC chairman Mark S. Fowler lamented upon CBS's decision to move its long-running children's series \"Captain Kangaroo\", from its historic weekday morning timeslot, to weekends, in order to air an expanded \"CBS Morning News\". At the time, the big three networks scheduled the majority of their children's programming, including cartoons, during Saturday morning lineups, along with occasional late-afternoon \"after school specials\"—anthologies of made-for-TV movies focusing on issues affecting youth. \"Captain Kangaroo\" had to compete not only with news-based morning shows such as \"Good Morning America\" and \"Today\" (which CBS sought to compete with), but local and syndicated offerings also targeting children.\n\nFowler was against mandating the broadcast of educational programming by commercial stations, arguing that it was within their First Amendment rights to choose the programming they wish to broadcast, and adding that \"it's too bad \"Captain Kangaroo\" is gone, but the Government should not be issuing directives about what should be on the air.\" Fowler suggested that, if the FCC felt there was not enough children's programming on television, it could mandate that commercial stations contribute funding to support the production of such programs by public stations. The idea was criticized by NBC's vice president as being a \"tax\" on commercial broadcasting, while ABC argued that commercial television (including networks and their affiliates) was doing a better job at serving children than public broadcasters.\n\nOn the other hand, \"Captain Kangaroo\" creator and host Bob Keeshan disagreed, arguing that children were \"just too important to be left to the networks and their profit motives.\" Citing the recent \"New York v. Ferber\" decision, he told \"The New York Times\" that \"despite the guarantee of free speech, our children are so precious that the free speech of the [child] pornographer had to give way to allow us to protect children from exploitation.\"\n\nNo serious action took place until the 1990 enactment of the Children's Television Act, an Act of Congress which ordered the FCC to implement regulations surrounding programming that serves the educational and informational (E/I) needs of children, as well as the amount of advertising broadcast during programs aimed towards children. This included that a station's commitment to airing and supporting educational children's programming had to become a factor in license renewals, and that limits had to be imposed on the amount of advertising that can be aired during television programs targeting children. It also called for the Secretary of Education to establish a National Endowment to help support the production of educational children's programming.\n\nThe FCC met its statutory obligations by introducing new regulations effective October 1, 1991. Television stations and cable providers would be required to maintain and publish summaries of the children's educational programming that they broadcast, defined as \"programming that furthers the positive development of children 16 years of age and under in any respect, including the child's intellectual/cognitive or social/emotional needs\". \n\nAs ordered, commercial time during children's programming was limited to 12 minutes per half-hour on weekdays and 10.5 on weekends, and advertising during children's programs for products associated with the program currently airing (\"program-length commercials\") or containing \"program talent or other identifiable program characteristics\" (host-selling) were also banned. The rule was intended to prevent children's programs that were tie-ins with toy franchises (such as, for example, \"G.I. Joe\") from airing ads for the toys themselves during their associated programs. Broadcasters were also encouraged to establish a clear separation between program and advertising content on-air during children's programming, so that younger viewers are able to distinguish between them.\n\nThe CTA was passed despite objections by the Bush administration, who believed that requiring the broadcast of educational programming by all television stations was a violation of their rights to free speech. The restriction on \"program-length commercials\" was also considered to be too narrow; critics (such as Charren) had demanded that it apply to any program targeted towards children that was primarily designed to promote products associated with them, rather than only applying if advertising for said products were broadcast during the program.\n\nThe 1990 regulations were considered to be ineffective; many stations failed to keep the required records or had any method for accurate recording. More than 25% of television stations in the U.S. failed to record the time, date, or length of programming considered to be educational in content. The FCC did little to regulate these logs up until 1993, but later on, came up with certain rules and regulations such as the safe harbor provision in order to regulate content for younger audiences. Due to the weak definition used (and in particular, the allowance for programs meeting social and emotional needs to possibly be considered educational), many stations attempted to interpret programs not specifically-designed to be educational—such as \"The Flintstones\", \"\", \"Hard Copy\", \"The Jetsons\", and \"Leave It to Beaver\"—as containing discussion of social and moral issues that made them \"educational\".\n\nIn 1995, FCC commissioner Reed Hundt began campaigning for stricter children's educational programming regulations, arguing that broadcasters were not displaying a sufficient commitment to the 1990 regulations. His proposal included that stations be required to air a minimum of three hours of children's educational programming per-week. Jeff Bingaman issued a letter of support for the proposal, signed by 24 Democratic senators and 1 Republican.\n\nFox Kids president Margaret Loesch denied Hundt's arguments that broadcasters were not following the rules, stating that most Fox affiliates aired an average of four hours of children's educational programming per-week (which already exceeded the proposed minimum). Edward O. Fritts, president of the National Association of Broadcasters, accused Hundt of being \"obsessed\" with the proposed quota. In regards to reports that Hundt was struggling to receive FCC majority support for the proposal and was repeatedly \"stalling\" a final vote, Fritts stated that Hundt was that \"acting like a regulatory referee wanting to push the game into overtime even though the final score is lopsided.\", and that he \"made up his mind long ago that broadcasters were to be castigated on children’s TV, without reservation, and despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary.\" \n\nFollowing a push for support from Congress and the Clinton Administration, the FCC adopted the Children's Programming Report and Order in August 1996. The new regulations were intended to provide clearer regulatory obligations for television stations, and promote public awareness of educational programming offered by television stations. The order and regulations defined core educational programming as programs of at least 30 minutes in length that are \"specifically designed\" to meet the educational and informative (E/I) needs of children 16 years old and younger. The FCC ordered that by September 1997, all commercial television stations must broadcast at least three hours of such programming per-week, regularly scheduled between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Beginning January 2, 1997, television stations were required to use an \"E/I\" label to promote these programs on-air and in programming information supplied to TV listings providers.\n\nCommercial stations are also required to compile, publish, and publicize a quarterly Children's Television Programming Report in their public file, detailing the children's educational programming aired during the past quarter, what programs it plans to air during the next, and providing a point of contact for viewer inquiries about the educational programs aired by a station. As they are not under the jurisdiction of the FCC, this regulation does not apply to cable channels. While Non-commercial educational stations (such as PBS members) are also required to comply with the regulations, they are not subject to its monitoring and reporting rules.\n\nIn September 2004, the FCC announced revisions to the regulations to account for the then-upcoming digital television transition. An additional half-hour of E/I programming must be broadcast for every increment of 28 hours of additional free video programming the station offers via digital subchannels. The regulations also stipulate that an \"E/I\" logo must be displayed on-screen to identify this programming, that a regularly-scheduled E/I program may only be rescheduled 10% of the time, and that if rescheduled or moved to a different multicast channel, the station must announce the new scheduling on-air. The FCC also introduced new rules regarding promotion of websites during children's programming aimed at viewers 12 and younger on broadcast and cable channels; they may only be for pages that do not contain any commercial or e-commerce content, must offer \"a substantial amount of bona fide program-related or other noncommercial content\", and that pages containing imagery of characters from the program must be \"sufficiently separated\" from commercial areas of the site.\n\nThe implementation of the advertising rules were deferred from February 2005 to January 2006, following concerns by broadcasters over the amount of time given to become compliant. Disney, NBC Universal, and Viacom issued a joint filing to the FCC in September 2005 to urge against the \"far-reaching, burdensome and expensive\" advertising rules, with Disney also suing over the regulations as being a violation of freedom of speech. On December 16, 2005, the FCC chose to delay the new regulation to March 6, 2006, in order to allow time for further discussion. They were ultimately implemented in September.\n\nCurrent FCC commissioner Michael O'Rielly has considered the educational programming regulations to be outdated. Citing the wider variety of platforms available (including cable networks and digital platforms), he stated that \"with today's dynamic media marketplace there are very little, if any, additional benefits provided by the Kid Vid rules\". O'Rielly also argued that the \"onerous\" nature of the regulations were also making stations reluctant to air other, more viable programs on Saturday mornings, such as newscasts and sports. In July 2018, the FCC issued proposals regarding changes to the rules, including removing the requirement that a program must be regularly scheduled and at least 30 minutes in length, and providing the option for all of a station's E/I programming to air on a subchannel rather than the main signal.\n\nFollowing the implementation of the regulations, many television stations began to cut locally-produced children's programs due to budgetary concerns, and largely replaced them with educational programs acquired from the syndication market. Studios such as Litton Entertainment benefited from the resulting demand. \n\nThe Annenberg Foundation found that the number of network television shows deemed to be \"highly educational\" from 1990 to 1998 fell from 43% to 29%. A research report from Georgetown University said that one issue contributing to this was that what constituted \"educational television\" programming was defined too broadly, as programming that was only academic or that covered pro-social issues, for example, counted towards station requirements. Another issue was that traditional ideas of what should be taught to children, such as the alphabet or number systems, were lost. There was also a reported increase in the amount of programs focusing on social issues. Writers for these programs wrote stories that often were not academically sound for young viewers, because they were not trained in writing for this audience. One show that was an exception to this rule is \"The Magic School Bus\", as it combined effective writing and educational content for children.\n\nNetworks picked up series more often when they were related to a well-known pop culture icon, or could be marketable as toys. Owing to the success of PBS's \"Barney & Friends\" from both a critical and commercial standpoint, Disney and Nickelodeon saw a greater interest in making preschool programming that was more engaging and had educational value to its target audience. However, they also leveraged techniques designed to bolster the programs as a brand when merchandised, such as close-up \"money shots\" of key characters designed to encourage recognition of them by viewers. \n\nIn the wake of the stricter regulations, the big three television networks began to retool their Saturday morning lineups for the 1997-98 television season in order to include more educational programming. \n\nABC, which had recently been acquired by Disney, introduced One Saturday Morning for the 1997-98 season. It featured a mix of Disney animated series, educational interstitial segments (including one featuring comedian Robin Williams discussing historical figures as his Genie character from \"Aladdin\"), the new educational series \"Science Court\", and a flagship wraparound program (\"Disney's One Saturday Morning\"). ABC stated that four of the block's five hours would branded as E/I programming. One Saturday Morning quickly became the top Saturday morning block in terms of viewership, until competition from Fox Kids and Kids' WB (credited to the respective popularity of \"Digimon\" and \"Pokémon\") began to erode its audience. In 2002, the block was replaced by ABC Kids, which drew from the programming of Disney Channel, ABC Family (which Disney had recently acquired from Fox), and Toon Disney.\n\nCBS relaunched its Saturday morning block for the 1997-98 season as Think CBS Kids, with a focus on live-action educational series such as \"The New Ghostwriter Mysteries\", \"The Weird Al Show\", and \"Wheel 2000\"—a children's version of the game show \"Wheel of Fortune\". CBS relaunched the block again the following season as the CBS Kidshow, with a focus on cartoons that were adapted from children's books, and produced by Canadian animation studio Nelvana. In 2000, following the network's acquisition by Viacom, CBS replaced Kidshow with a block programmed by its new corporate sister Nickelodeon; the block initially focused exclusively on preschool programming from the Nick Jr. brand, but from 2002 to 2004, the block targeted a broader youth audience. In 2006, after CBS and Viacom split back into separate companies, CBS partnered with DIC Entertainment to launch KOL Secret Slumber Party (in conjunction with AOL's children's vertical KOL). The block was re-branded as \"KEWLopolis\" the following season as part of a new sponsorship with American Greetings, and Cookie Jar TV in 2009 following the acquisition of DIC by Cookie Jar Group.\n\nNBC had removed cartoons from its Saturday morning lineup in 1992 in favor of TNBC, which featured live-action sitcoms aimed towards a teen audience. After declining ratings, TNBC was replaced in 2001 with Discovery Kids on NBC, which was programmed by the cable channel Discovery Kids and featured factual entertainment programming and educational cartoons (including the first animated programs aired by NBC's Saturday morning lineup since the TNBC era). In September 2006, it was replaced by Qubo, a joint venture with Ion Media Networks, Nelvana owner Corus Entertainment, Scholastic and Classic Media that was focused on educational programming. Following Comcast's purchase of NBC Universal, the network pulled out of Qubo and replaced with it with the preschool-targeted NBC Kids in 2012, which was programmed by new sister network Sprout.\n\nThe growing regulatory scrutiny, increasing competition from cable channels such as Cartoon Network, Disney Channel, and Nickelodeon (which benefited from synergy and cross-promotion with ABC, CBS, and The WB's children's blocks), as well as video on-demand services, made non-educational Saturday morning programming less viable for networks. In June 2014, The CW, whose Vortexx block (programmed by Saban Brands) made it the last major U.S. network to still program non-educational programming on weekend mornings, announced that it would replace it with an E/I-centric block for the next television season.\n\nIn 2007, Univision agreed to a record $24 million fine for violations of the educational programming regulations across 24 of its stations, after falsely asserting that several youth-targeted telenovelas (such as \"Cómplices Al Rescate\") were educational in nature.\n\nAirings of the \"Pokémon\" anime on Kids' WB induced notable violations of the program-length commercial restrictions, due to the airing of commercials for products such as Eggo waffles, Fruit by the Foot, and the Nintendo e-Reader accessory for the Game Boy Advance, that contained \"Pokémon\"-related tie-ins. The FCC fined individual affiliates of The WB and upheld the fines on appeal (despite WCIU-TV trying to defend itself by arguing that the references were \"fleeting\"), even though it was the network which transmitted the content. In 2010, KSKN in Spokane, Washington was similarly fined $70,000 for having, on multiple occasions, aired an advertisement for a local collectibles shop during \"Yu-Gi-Oh!\" that contained references to its trading card game as being among products sold.\n\nIn 2004, Disney and Viacom were respectively issued $1 million and $500,000 fines for violating the limits on advertising during children's programming on ABC Family and Nickelodeon.\n\nIn the early 2010's, broadcasters began to change the manner in which they addressed their E/I obligations, shifting to blocks of factual, documentary- and reality-style series aimed at a teen (13-16 years old) audience, in lieu of conventional children's programs (such as cartoons). Throughout the decade, ABC (Litton's Weekend Adventure), CBS (CBS Dream Team), The CW (One Magnificent Morning), and NBC (The More You Know) all leased their weekend morning blocks to Litton Entertainment to air such programming. After dropping 4Kids TV in 2008 (which by then, had only scheduled a single half-hour of E/I programming within) in favor of programming a national block of infomercials under the internal title \"Weekend Marketplace\", Fox entered into a similar arrangement with Steve Rotfeld Productions to produce the STEM-based block Xploration Station, which premiered in September 2014. \n\nAs they are only applied to programs targeting viewers 12 and younger, these programs are not subject to the advertising restrictions prescribed by the Children's Television Act. Litton faced criticism from Peggy Charren's daughter Claudia Moquin, for including product placement from \"underwriters\" in some of its programs (such as Electronic Arts, Norwegian Cruise Line, and SeaWorld), which, when combined with the lack of restrictions on commercial time, were described as a contravention of the spirit of the CTA. Litton defended its practices, stating that its programming was designed to meet \"child psychologist-developed standards that did not exist prior to 1990\", and considered them to be a preferential alternative to airing ads for junk food and toys instead.\n\nPBS member stations have been an exception to this trend, as they continue to air conventional, educational children's programming under the blanket branding PBS Kids. Member stations may also offer a full-time PBS Kids channel as a digital subchannel service.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43191098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43191098", "title": "Remind", "text": "Remind\n\nRemind (previously Remind101) is a private mobile messaging platform that enables teachers, parents, students, and administrators in K–12 schools to communicate with everyone at once. The platform has more than 20 million monthly active users across the United States. As of September 2016, Remind is used in more than 50% of the public schools in the U.S.\n\nRemind101 was founded in 2011 by brothers Brett and David Kopf to help bridge the communication gap in primary education. In 2016, they added former Bleacher Report CEO Brian Grey to the team as CEO.\n\nBrett Kopf was diagnosed with attention deficit disorder and dyslexia while he was still in school. His brother David set up a system whereby school faculty could remind him of an upcoming test. Brett credits this system with playing a part in his success in school. The two decided to make the system into a company and became part of the first class at the Imagine K12 incubator in Palo Alto, CA, where all startups must focus on improving education.\n\nOn June 16, 2014, Kopf announced that Remind101 would be changing its name simply to Remind. \n\nThe platform is designed to increase parental engagement which has been linked to increased student performance. One study showed teacher to family communication increased homework turn in by 42%, kept students more focused and increased participation.\n\nIn September 2013, Remind closed a $3.5 million round of series A financing, led by The Social+Capital Partnership, with participation from Yuri Milner, Maneesh Arora and other angel investors. As part of the round, Chamath Palihapitiya joined Remind's board of directors.\n\nIn February 2014, Remind raised $15 million in Series B funding led by Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers with additional participation from its previous investors, including Social + Capital and First Round Capital. In coordination with the round, the company added John Doerr, a venture capitalist at Kleiner Perkins, to its board.\n\nIn September 2014, Remind raised $40 million in Series C funding from its previous investors.\n"}
{"id": "11306994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11306994", "title": "Silvio Antoniano", "text": "Silvio Antoniano\n\nSilvio Antoniani (31 December 1540, Rome - 16 August 1603, Rome) was a musician, canon lawyer, writer on education, priest and cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church, who spent most of his career in the Roman Curia.\n\nThe son of a poor wool merchant, his talent with the lyre at a young age drew the attention of many patrons and led indirectly to his career in the Church.\n\nCardinal Otto Truchsess von Waldburg funded his education at a young age. Pope Julius III provided Antoniani with room and board at the Apostolic Palace. He met Ercole II d'Este, Duke of Ferrara, who sponsored his studies at the University of Ferrara, where Antoniani earned a doctorate in civil and canon law in 1556, and was professor of classical literature.\n\nAfter the death of the Duke of Ferrara, he returned to Rome. In 1563 Pope Pius IV appointed him to the chair of belles-lettres in Sapienza University, a position in which he worked with St Charles Borromeo, who made him his personal secretary. In 1566 he resigned the chair, and took up the study of theology under the direction of St Philip Neri and was ordained priest on 12 June 1568.\n\nPope Pius V named him Secretary of the College of Cardinals, a position he held for twenty-four years. Pope Sixtus V named him secretary of the Congregation of Bishops and Regulars. Clement VIII appointed him Secretary of Papal Briefs in 1593. Antoniano was also Master of the Papal Chamber and a Canon of the Basilica of Saint Peter.\n\nPope Clement created him Cardinal Priest of \"San Salvatore in Lauro\" on 3 March 1599. He was present at the acceptance of the Union of Brest, and two of his writings are inscribed on the north and south faces of the pedestal supporting the Vatican Obelisk in Saint Peter's Square. He died in Rome in 1603, and is interred in Santa Maria in Vallicella.\n\nWith the advent of Italian humanism in the late sixteenth century, Antoniano devoted himself to the study of educational problems and at the instance of St Charles Borromeo, wrote his principal work on the Christian education of children, (\"Tre libri dell' educazione cristiana de' figliuoli\", Verona, 1584.) His work passed through several editions in Italian and was translated into French by Guignard (Troyes, 1856; Paris, 1873), and into German by Kunz (Freiburg, 1888). The other writings of Antoniano, many of which have not been published, deal with literary, historical, and liturgical subjects.\n\nHe was one of the compilers of the Roman Catechism and a member of the commission charged by Clement VIII with the revision of the Breviary.\n\n"}
{"id": "852482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=852482", "title": "Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge", "text": "Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge\n\nThe Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge (SDUK), was founded in 1826, mainly at the instigation of Lord Brougham, with the object of publishing information to people who were unable to obtain formal teaching, or who preferred self-education. A Whiggish London organisation that published inexpensive texts intended to adapt scientific and similarly high-minded material for the rapidly expanding reading public, it was wound up in 1848.\n\nAn American group of the same name was founded as part of the Lyceum movement in the United States around the same period. Its Boston branch sponsored lectures by such speakers as Ralph Waldo Emerson, and was active from 1829 to 1947. Henry David Thoreau cites the Society in his essay \"Walking,\" in which he jestingly proposes a Society for the Diffusion of Useful Ignorance.\n\nSDUK publications were intended for the working class and the middle class, as an antidote to the more radical output of the pauper presses. The society set out to achieve this by acting as an intermediary between authors and publishers by launching several series of publications. It was run by a committee of eminent persons, and had a close association with the newly formed University College London, as well as the numerous provincial Mechanics' Institutes. Its printers included Baldwin & Cradock, later succeeded by Charles Knight. The Society commissioned work and dealt with the printers, and finally distributed the publications; profits were used to continue the Society's work.\n\nWhile conceived with high ideals the project gradually failed, as subscribers fell away and sale of publications declined. Charles Knight was largely responsible for what success SDUK publications did have; he engaged in extensive promotional campaigns, and worked to improve the readability of the sometimes abstruse material. Nonetheless many of the titles had little interest to readers, though the \"Penny Magazine\" at its peak had a circulation of around 200,000 copies a week. The Society eventually wound up in 1848, though some of its works apparently continued to be published. The archives of the Society are in the possession of the University College London.\n\nThe Society was not without opposition, and the \"Literary Gazette\" mounted a campaign on behalf of the book trade, supported by publications such as the \"Royal Lady's Magazine\", who complained in the early 1830s that:\nFew persons are aware that the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge have done, and are still doing, more to ruin the Book trade than all the change of times, the want of money, the weight of taxes, and even the law of Libel have accomplished; yet they – a committee of Noblemen and pretended Patriots – are permitted to go on in their unfeeling, nay, considering the hundreds of thousands engaged in the Book trade, we may add brutal, career, without interruption.\n\nOne significant set of publications by the SDUK was the Library of Useful Knowledge; sold for a sixpence and published biweekly, its books focused on scientific topics. The first volume, an introduction to the series by Brougham, sold over 33,000 copies. However, attempts to reach the working class market were largely unsuccessful; only among the middle class was there sustained interest in popular science texts.\n\nLike many other works in the new genre of popular scientific narratives—such as the \"Bridgewater Treatises\" and Humphry Davy's \"Consolations in Travel\"—the books of the Library of Useful Knowledge focused on natural theology and imbued scientific fields with concepts of progress: uniformitarianism in geology, the nebular hypothesis in astronomy, and the scala naturae in the life sciences. According to historian James Secord, such works met a demand for \"general concepts and simple laws\", and in the process helped establish the authority of professional science and specialised scientific disciplines.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42055430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42055430", "title": "Sonia Santiago", "text": "Sonia Santiago\n\nSonia Santiago (also: Sonia Santiago-Brückner, born 1 November 1966) is a ballet dancer and ballet teacher.\n\nSonia Santiago was born in Madrid. She grew up in Germany and began ballet dancing at age five. She studied at the , graduating in 1985. She danced first with the companies of the \"Staatstheater Saarbrücken\" () and the \"Staatsoper Hannover\". In 1990, she was engaged at the Stuttgart Ballet, promoted to soloist in 1994 and to first soloist in 1997.\n\nSeveral solo parts were created for her, including choreographies by , and Renato Zanella. She danced in choreographies by Maurice Béjart, Nacho Duato, William Forsythe, Marcia Haydée, Jiří Kylián, Hans van Manen, Uwe Scholz and Glen Tetley, among others. From 2001, she has worked as a free-lance ballet trainer and dancer, including dance projects with children in schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "34576417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34576417", "title": "Space Bucks", "text": "Space Bucks\n\nSpace Bucks was a space trading simulation developed by Impressions Games and published by Sierra On-Line. The game focuses on the creation of a trade empire against several computer controlled opponents. Victory is achieved through a combination of infrastructure investments, the stock market, piracy, sabotage, and of course trade goods.\n\nIn the year 2375, Humans share the galaxy with four other races, the Colikars, Tesarians, Secanii, and the Krec N'had. Your fledgling trading company, consisting of a single port and a single ship, must, by the year 2500, expand by any means necessary to become the dominant trade empire in the galaxy. Three computer opponents will be pursuing the same goal.\n\nThere are numerous mechanics for the player to utilize in order to achieve victory.\n\nShips do the heavy lifting in the game. Without ships, the goods produced at planets can't be transported and the highest level goods can't be manufactured due to a lack of the appropriate resources. At the start of the game only a few ship types are available. As the game progresses new, more advanced ship types become available.\n\nShips have several stats which determine its suitability for use. Range, Speed, Capacity, Efficiency, Drive, and Maintenance cost.\n\nPlanets generate all of the trade goods in the galaxy. These goods range from food, to passengers, to luxury goods. The higher in development a planet is, the more and the greater the variety of goods that are produced. Once the highest levels of development can be reached the most expensive, and thus profitable, goods can be manufactured.\n\nTo gain access to a planet, a bid must be made on a planet which does not already have a deal with another trade company. The player must open negotiations with such a planet and if their demands are agreed to, they will ally themselves with the players trade company. The demands include a monthly rent paid by the player, the delivery of a specified good at regular intervals, and an agreement to build a specified piece of infrastructure on the planet within a certain timeframe. The demand for monthly rent is made for every planet, with the other two demands being optional and dependent on the developmental level of the planet.\n\nPlanets have morale which can be modified by in-game factors. Investing in planetary infrastructure can often help improve the morale of a planet and ensure docking rights are not lost. Should a planet be lost to an unhappy local populace, the player must begin negotiations for docking rights again. The higher the developmental level of the planet, the more infrastructure will be needed to keep the planet happy.\n\nTrade goods include fuel, food, passengers, and exotic goods such as wine and weapons. Each race produces different high-end goods than it consumes.\n\nEach trading company has stock which can be sold on the market for an infusion of cash. Buying out the competition, by accumulating a majority of their stock, is possible. Stock can be bought and sold throughout the game, making it possible to sell lots of stock early for an early boost and then buy it back when the other companies sell off the shares they own.\n\nPirates can be hired to harass the competition. They can be paid to harass the player as well. When a pirate attacks there are only a couple of options, pay them off, try to run, or fight back. The correct action to take will depend heavily on the specific ship being threatened and the upgrades that it has been outfitted with.\n\nSabotage missions can be undertaken to hurt the competitions bottom line. Of course the competition can do the same to the player.\n\nA very basic mechanic, News Events inform the player of all the important events such as new ships, engines, or weapon systems which have become available. Sudden changes in the markets may also be announced throughout the game, giving the player the chance to make a quick profit.\n\nA reviewer for \"Next Generation\" focused on the lack of anything to do in the game besides bid for landing rights and choose cargo: \"No cut-throat strategy for undermining the competition's prices, no sabotage of trading routes, no space battles - not even the occasional price war.\" He recommended that players get \"much better\" business sims such as \"Transport Tycoon\" or \"Capitalism\" instead, and gave it 1 out of 5 stars. World Village (Gamer's Zone) wrote \"The plot was a little thin for my taste, but if reading the business section of the paper excites you, then this game would be a must for you. The main weakness that I see in this program is lack of originality. I see parts of Railroad Tycoon, Civilization, Sim City among others, as well as the obvious connection to Air bucks v1.2. Nothing wrong with recycling older programs, especially as hardware improvements allow the newer versions to make improvements on game performance. That is what happened with this game. Unfortunately, it has a rushed feeling and fails to capitalize on the improvements there were put in the game.\" \"Computer Gaming World\" said \"If you love to create ornate moving sculptures that generate endless money but do very little else interesting, then SPACE BUCKS will have some appeal for you. Set at its hardest level, the game offers two or three hours of challenge before your empire grows to the point that nothing can really harm it and you simply sit around absorbing planets from your competitors and doing more and more unwieldy upgrades to your entire fleet. Other than that, it is pretty to look at, but definitely no AIR BUCKS in Space.\" \"Computer Games Magazine\" wrote \"Dealing with manufacturing, the bank and stock market, and random events do add a few things (bowling pins and knives?), but there still aren't a lot of different things to do (as in, say, Sim City or Capitalism). Despite this, you have to watch these things very closely, and it is easy for things to go critical very quickly. At the beginner level I played (and quickly lost) four games before I'd gotten a business that was even barely stable (and I was at the bottom of the pack). Maybe I just don't have a nose for business, but my attention wasn't strongly held. Beginning business sim fans might get more out of Space Bucks than I did, but I suspect advanced gamers will want to stick with a more detailed game like Capitalism.\"\n"}
{"id": "7224224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7224224", "title": "Subtitle (captioning)", "text": "Subtitle (captioning)\n\nSubtitles are text derived from either a transcript or screenplay of the dialog or commentary in films, television programs, video games, and the like, usually displayed at the bottom of the screen, but can also be at the top of the screen if there is already text at the bottom of the screen. They can either be a form of written translation of a dialog in a foreign language, or a written rendering of the dialog in the same language, with or without added information to help viewers who are deaf or hard of hearing to follow the dialog, or people who cannot understand the spoken dialogue or who have accent recognition problems.\n\nThe encoded method can either be pre-rendered with the video or separate as either a graphic or text to be rendered and overlaid by the receiver. The separate subtitles are used for DVD, Blu-ray and television teletext/Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB) subtitling or EIA-608 captioning, which are hidden unless requested by the viewer from a menu or remote controller key or by selecting the relevant page or service (e.g., p. 888 or CC1), always carry additional sound representations for deaf and hard of hearing viewers. Teletext subtitle language follows the original audio, except in multi-lingual countries where the broadcaster may provide subtitles in additional languages on other teletext pages. EIA-608 captions are similar, except that North American Spanish stations may provide captioning in Spanish on CC3. DVD and Blu-ray only differ in using run-length encoded graphics instead of text, as well as some HD DVB broadcasts.\n\nSometimes, mainly at film festivals, subtitles may be shown on a separate display below the screen, thus saving the film-maker from creating a subtitled copy for perhaps just one showing. Television subtitling for the deaf and hard of hearing is also referred to as closed captioning in some countries.\n\nMore exceptional uses also include operas, such as Verdi's Aida, where sung lyrics in Italian are subtitled in English or in another local language outside the stage area on luminous screens for the audience to follow the storyline, or on a screen attached to the back of the chairs in front of the audience.\n\nThe word \"subtitle\" is the prefix \"sub-\" (\"below\") followed by \"title\". In some cases, such as live opera, the dialog is displayed above the stage in what are referred to as \"surtitles\" (\"sur-\" meaning \"above\").\n\nToday, professional subtitlers usually work with specialized computer software and hardware where the video is digitally stored on a hard disk, making each individual frame instantly accessible. Besides creating the subtitles, the subtitler usually also tells the computer software the exact positions where each subtitle should appear and disappear. For cinema film, this task is traditionally done by separate technicians. The end result is a subtitle file containing the actual subtitles as well as position markers indicating where each subtitle should appear and disappear. These markers are usually based on timecode if it is a work for electronic media (e.g., TV, video, DVD), or on film length (measured in feet and frames) if the subtitles are to be used for traditional cinema film.\n\nThe finished subtitle file is used to add the subtitles to the picture, either:\n\nSubtitles can also be created by individuals using freely available subtitle-creation software like Subtitle Workshop for Windows, MovieCaptioner for Mac/Windows, and Subtitle Composer for Linux, and then hardcode them onto a video file with programs such as VirtualDub in combination with VSFilter which could also be used to show subtitles as softsubs in many software video players.\n\nFor multimedia-style Webcasting, check:\n\nSame-language captions, i.e., without translation, were primarily intended as an aid for people who are deaf or hard of hearing. Internationally, there are several major studies which demonstrate that same-language captioning can have a major impact on literacy and reading growth across a broad range of reading abilities. This method of subtitling is used by national television broadcasters in China and in India such as Doordarshan. This idea was struck upon by Brij Kothari, who believed that SLS makes reading practice an incidental, automatic, and subconscious part of popular TV entertainment, at a low per-person cost to shore up literacy rates in India.\n\nSame language subtitling (SLS) is the use of synchronized captioning of musical lyrics (or any text with an audio/video source) as a repeated reading activity. The basic reading activity involves students viewing a short subtitled presentation projected onscreen, while completing a response worksheet. To be really effective, the subtitling should have high quality synchronization of audio and text, and better yet, subtitling should change color in syllabic synchronization to audio model, and the text should be at a level to challenge students' language abilities.\n\nClosed captioning is the American term for closed subtitles specifically intended for people who are deaf or hard of hearing. These are a transcription rather than a translation, and usually contain descriptions of important non-dialog audio as well such as \"(sighs)\", \"(wind blowing)\", \"(\"SONG TITLE\" playing)\", \"(kisses)\" or \"(door creaks)\" and lyrics. From the expression \"closed captions\" the word \"caption\" has in recent years come to mean a subtitle intended for the deaf or hard of hearing, be it \"open\" or \"closed\". In British English \"subtitles\" usually refers to subtitles for the deaf or hard of hearing (SDH); however, the term \"SDH\" is sometimes used when there is a need to make a distinction between the two.\n\nPrograms such as news bulletins, current affairs programs, sport, some talk shows and political and special events utilize real time or online captioning. Live captioning is increasingly common, especially in the United Kingdom and the United States, as a result of regulations that stipulate that virtually all TV eventually must be accessible for people who are deaf and hard–of–hearing. In practice, however, these \"real time\" subtitles will typically lag the audio by several seconds due to the inherent delay in transcribing, encoding, and transmitting the subtitles. Real time subtitles are also challenged by typographic errors or mis-hearing of the spoken words, with no time available to correct before transmission.\n\nSome programs may be prepared in their entirety several hours before broadcast, but with insufficient time to prepare a timecoded caption file for automatic play-out. Pre-prepared captions look similar to offline captions, although the accuracy of cueing may be compromised slightly as the captions are not locked to program timecode.\n\nNewsroom captioning involves the automatic transfer of text from the newsroom computer system to a device which outputs it as captions. It does work, but its suitability as an exclusive system would only apply to programs which had been scripted in their entirety on the newsroom computer system, such as short interstitial updates.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, some broadcasters have used it exclusively and simply left uncaptioned sections of the bulletin for which a script was unavailable. Newsroom captioning limits captions to pre-scripted materials and, therefore, does not cover 100% of the news, weather and sports segments of a typical local news broadcast which are typically not pre-scripted, last-second breaking news or changes to the scripts, ad lib conversations of the broadcasters, emergency or other live remote broadcasts by reporters in-the-field. By failing to cover items such as these, newsroom style captioning (or use of the Teleprompter for captioning) typically results in coverage of less than 30% of a local news broadcast.\n\nCommunication Access Real-Time Translation (CART) stenographers, who use a computer with using either stenotype or Velotype keyboards to transcribe stenographic input for presentation as captions within 2–3 seconds of the representing audio, must caption anything which is purely live and unscripted; however, the most recent developments include operators using speech recognition software and revoicing the dialog. Speech recognition technology has advanced so quickly in the United States that about 50% of all live captioning is through speech recognition as of 2005. Real-time captions look different from offline captions, as they are presented as a continuous flow of text as people speak.\n\nReal-time stenographers are the most highly skilled in their profession. Stenography is a system of rendering words phonetically, and English, with its multitude of homophones (e.g., there, their, they’re), is particularly unsuited to easy transcriptions. Stenographers working in courts and inquiries usually have 24 hours in which to deliver their transcripts. Consequently, they may enter the same phonetic stenographic codes for a variety of homophones, and fix up the spelling later. Real-time stenographers must deliver their transcriptions accurately and immediately. They must therefore develop techniques for keying homophones differently, and be unswayed by the pressures of delivering accurate product on immediate demand.\n\nSubmissions to recent captioning-related inquiries have revealed concerns from broadcasters about captioning sports. Captioning sports may also affect many different people because of the weather outside of it. In much sport captioning's absence, the Australian Caption Centre submitted to the National Working Party on Captioning (NWPC), in November 1998, three examples of sport captioning, each performed on tennis, rugby league and swimming programs:\n\nThe NWPC concluded that the standard they accept is the comprehensive real-time method, which gives them access to the commentary in its entirety. Also, not all sports are live. Many events are pre-recorded hours before they are broadcast, allowing a captioner to caption them using offline methods.\n\nBecause different programs are produced under different conditions, a case-by-case basis must consequently determine captioning methodology. Some bulletins may have a high incidence of truly live material, or insufficient access to video feeds and scripts may be provided to the captioning facility, making stenography unavoidable. Other bulletins may be pre-recorded just before going to air, making pre-prepared text preferable.\n\nIn Australia and the United Kingdom, hybrid methodologies have proven to be the best way to provide comprehensive, accurate and cost-effective captions on news and current affairs programs. News captioning applications currently available are designed to accept text from a variety of inputs: stenography, Velotype, QWERTY, ASCII import, and the newsroom computer. This allows one facility to handle a variety of online captioning requirements and to ensure that captioners properly caption all programs.\n\nCurrent affairs programs usually require stenographic assistance. Even though the segments which comprise a current affairs program may be produced in advance, they are usually done so just before on-air time and their duration makes QWERTY input of text unfeasible.\n\nNews bulletins, on the other hand, can often be captioned without stenographic input (unless there are live crosses or ad-libbing by the presenters). This is because:\n\nFor non-live, or pre-recorded programs, television program providers can choose offline captioning. Captioners gear offline captioning toward the high-end television industry, providing highly customized captioning features, such as pop-on style captions, specialized screen placement, speaker identifications, italics, special characters, and sound effects.\n\nOffline captioning involves a five-step design and editing process, and does much more than simply display the text of a program. Offline captioning helps the viewer follow a story line, become aware of mood and feeling, and allows them to fully enjoy the entire viewing experience. Offline captioning is the preferred presentation style for entertainment-type programming.\n\nSubtitles for the deaf or hard-of-hearing (SDH) is an American term introduced by the DVD industry. It refers to regular subtitles in the original language where important non-dialog information has been added, as well as speaker identification, which may be useful when the viewer cannot otherwise visually tell who is saying what.\n\nThe only significant difference for the user between SDH subtitles and closed captions is their appearance: SDH subtitles usually are displayed with the same proportional font used for the translation subtitles on the DVD; however, closed captions are displayed as white text on a black band, which blocks a large portion of the view. Closed captioning is falling out of favor as many users have no difficulty reading SDH subtitles, which are text with contrast outline. In addition, DVD subtitles can specify many colors, on the same character: primary, outline, shadow, and background. This allows subtitlers to display subtitles on a usually translucent band for easier reading; however, this is rare, since most subtitles use an outline and shadow instead, in order to block a smaller portion of the picture. Closed captions may still supersede DVD subtitles, since many SDH subtitles present all of the text centered, while closed captions usually specify position on the screen: centered, left align, right align, top, etc. This is helpful for speaker identification and overlapping conversation. Some SDH subtitles (such as the subtitles of newer Universal Studios DVDs/Blu-ray Discs) do have positioning, but it is not as common.\n\nDVDs for the U.S. market now sometimes have three forms of English subtitles: SDH subtitles; English subtitles, helpful for viewers who may not be hearing impaired but whose first language may not be English (although they are usually an exact transcript and not simplified); and closed caption data that is decoded by the end-user's closed caption decoder. Most anime releases in the U.S. only include as subtitles translations of the original material; therefore, SDH subtitles of English dubs (\"dubtitles\") are uncommon.\nHigh-definition disc media (HD DVD, Blu-ray Disc) uses SDH subtitles as the sole method because technical specifications do not require HD to support line 21 closed captions. Some Blu-ray Discs, however, are said to carry a closed caption stream that only displays through standard-definition connections. Many HDTVs allow the end–user to customize the captions, including the ability to remove the black band.\n\nAlthough same-language subtitles and captions are produced primarily with the deaf and hard of hearing in mind, many hearing film and television viewers choose to use them. This is often done because the presence of closed captioning and subtitles ensures that not one word of dialogue will be missed. Bars and other noisy public places, where film dialogue would otherwise be drowned out, often make closed captions visible for patrons. Viewers may also find thick regional accents from other same-language countries hard to understand without subtitles. Films and television shows often have subtitles displayed in the same language if the speaker has a speech impairment. In addition, captions may reveal information that would otherwise be difficult to obtain from hearing. Some examples would be song lyrics, dialog spoken quietly or by those with accents unfamiliar to the intended audience, or supportive, minor dialog from background characters. It is argued that such additional information and detail enhances the overall experience and allows the viewer a better grasp of the material. Furthermore, people learning a foreign language may sometimes use same-language subtitles to better understand the dialog without having to resort to a translation.\n\nIn some Asian television programming, captioning is considered a part of the genre, and has evolved beyond simply capturing what is being said. The captions are used artistically; it is common to see the words appear one by one as they are spoken, in a multitude of fonts, colors, and sizes that capture the spirit of what is being said. Languages like Japanese also have a rich vocabulary of onomatopoeia which is used in captioning.\n\nIn some East Asian countries, especially Chinese-speaking ones, subtitling is common in all taped television programs. In these countries, written text remains mostly uniform while regional dialects in the spoken form can be mutually unintelligible. Therefore, subtitling offers a distinct advantage to aid comprehension. With subtitles, programs in Putonghua, the standard Mandarin, or any dialect can be understood by viewers unfamiliar with it.\n\nOn-screen subtitles as seen in Japanese variety television shows are more for decorative purpose, something that is not seen in television in Europe and the Americas. Some shows even place sound effects over those subtitles. This practice of subtitling has been spread to neighbouring countries including South Korea and Taiwan. ATV in Hong Kong once practiced this style of decorative subtitles on its variety shows when it was owned by Want Want Holdings in Taiwan (which also owns CTV and CTI).\n\nIn India, Same Language Subtitling (SLS) are common for films and music videos. SLS refers to the idea of subtitling in the same language as the audio. SLS is highlighted karaoke style, that is, to speech. The idea of SLS was initiated to shore up literacy rates as SLS makes reading practice an incidental, automatic, and subconscious part of popular TV entertainment. This idea was well received by the Government of India which now uses SLS on several national channels, including Doordarshan.\n\nTranslation basically means conversion of one language into another language in wrtten or spoken form. The process of translation requires a translator e.g. Google Translate, Microsoft Translator. Subtitles can be used to translate dialog from a foreign language into the native language of the audience. It is not only the quickest and cheapest method of translating content, but is also usually preferred as it is possible for the audience to hear the original dialog and voices of the actors.\n\nSubtitle translation can be different from the translation of written text. Usually, during the process of creating subtitles for a film or television program, the picture and each sentence of the audio are analyzed by the subtitle translator; also, the subtitle translator may or may not have access to a written transcript of the dialog. Especially in the field of commercial subtitles, the subtitle translator often interprets what is meant, rather than translating the manner in which the dialog is stated; that is, the meaning is more important than the form—the audience does not always appreciate this, as it can be frustrating for people who are familiar with some of the spoken language; spoken language may contain verbal padding or culturally implied meanings that cannot be conveyed in the written subtitles. Also, the subtitle translator may also condense the dialog to achieve an acceptable reading speed, whereby purpose is more important than form.\n\nEspecially in fansubs, the subtitle translator may translate both form and meaning. The subtitle translator may also choose to display a note in the subtitles, usually in parentheses (“(” and “)”), or as a separate block of on-screen text—this allows the subtitle translator to preserve form and achieve an acceptable reading speed; that is, the subtitle translator may leave a note on the screen, even after the character has finished speaking, to both preserve form and facilitate understanding. For example, the Japanese language has multiple first-person pronouns (see Japanese pronouns) and each pronoun is associated with a different degree of politeness. In order to compensate during the English translation process, the subtitle translator may reformulate the sentence, add appropriate words and/or use notes.\n\nReal-time translation subtitling usually involves an interpreter and a stenographer working concurrently, whereby the former quickly translates to the dialog while the latter types; this form of subtitling is rare. The unavoidable delay, typing errors, lack of editing, and high cost mean that real-time translation subtitling is in low demand. Allowing the interpreter to directly speak to the viewers is usually both cheaper and quicker; however, the translation is not accessible to people who are deaf and hard-of-hearing.\n\nSome subtitlers purposely provide edited subtitles or captions to match the needs of their audience, for learners of the spoken dialog as a second or foreign language, visual learners, beginning readers who are deaf or hard of hearing and for people with learning and/or mental disabilities. For example, for many of its films and television programs, PBS displays standard captions representing speech the program audio, word-for-word, if the viewer selects \"CC1\" by using the television remote control or on-screen menu; however, they also provide edited captions to present simplified sentences at a slower rate, if the viewer selects \"CC2\". Programs with a diverse audience also often have captions in another language. This is common with popular Latin American soap operas in Spanish. Since CC1 and CC2 share bandwidth, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) recommends translation subtitles be placed in CC3. CC4, which shares bandwidth with CC3, is also available, but programs seldom use it.\n\nThe two alternative methods of 'translating' films in a foreign language are dubbing, in which other actors record over the voices of the original actors in a different language, and lectoring, a form of voice-over for fictional material where a narrator tells the audience what the actors are saying while their voices can be heard in the background. Lectoring is common for television in Russia, Poland, and a few other East European countries, while cinemas in these countries commonly show films dubbed or subtitled.\n\nThe preference for dubbing or subtitling in various countries is largely based on decisions taken in the late 1920s and early 1930s. With the arrival of sound film, the film importers in Germany, Italy, France and Spain decided to dub the foreign voices, while the rest of Europe elected to display the dialog as translated subtitles. The choice was largely due to financial reasons (subtitling is more economical and quicker than dubbing), but during the 1930s it also became a political preference in Germany, Italy and Spain; an expedient form of censorship that ensured that foreign views and ideas could be stopped from reaching the local audience, as dubbing makes it possible to create a dialogue which is totally different from the original. In larger German cities a few \"special cinemas\" use subtitling instead of dubbing.\n\nDubbing is still the norm and favored form in these four countries, but the proportion of subtitling is slowly growing, mainly to save cost and turnaround-time, but also due to a growing acceptance among younger generations, who are better readers and increasingly have a basic knowledge of English (the dominant language in film and TV) and thus prefer to hear the original dialogue.\n\nNevertheless, in Spain, for example, only public TV channels show subtitled foreign films, usually at late night. It is extremely rare that any Spanish TV channel shows subtitled versions of TV programs, series or documentaries. With the advent of digital land broadcast TV, it has become common practice in Spain to provide optional audio and subtitle streams that allow watching dubbed programmes with the original audio and subtitles. In addition, only a small proportion of cinemas show subtitled films. Films with dialogue in Galician, Catalan or Basque are always dubbed, not subtitled, when they are shown in the rest of the country. Some non-Spanish-speaking TV stations subtitle interviews in Spanish; others do not.\n\nIn many Latin American countries, local network television will show dubbed versions of English-language programs and movies, while cable stations (often international) more commonly broadcast subtitled material. Preference for subtitles or dubbing varies according to individual taste and reading ability, and theaters may order two prints of the most popular films, allowing moviegoers to choose between dubbing or subtitles. Animation and children's programming, however, is nearly universally dubbed, as in other regions.\n\nSince the introduction of the DVD and, later, the Blu-ray Disc, some high budget films include the simultaneous option of \"both\" subtitles and/or dubbing. Often in such cases, the translations are made separately, rather than the subtitles being a verbatim transcript of the dubbed scenes of the film. While this allows for the smoothest possible flow of the subtitles, it can be frustrating for someone attempting to learn a foreign language.\n\nIn the traditional subtitling countries, dubbing is generally regarded as something strange and unnatural and is only used for animated films and TV programs intended for pre-school children. As animated films are \"dubbed\" even in their original language and ambient noise and effects are usually recorded on a separate sound track, dubbing a low quality production into a second language produces little or no noticeable effect on the viewing experience. In dubbed live-action television or film, however, viewers are often distracted by the fact that the audio does not match the actors' lip movements. Furthermore, the dubbed voices may seem detached, inappropriate for the character, or overly expressive, and some ambient sounds may not be transferred to the dubbed track, creating a less enjoyable viewing experience.\n\nIn several countries or regions nearly all foreign language TV programs are subtitled, instead of dubbed, notably in:\n\n\nIt is also common that television services in minority languages subtitle their programs in the dominant language as well. Examples include the Welsh S4C and Irish TG4 who subtitle in English and the Swedish Yle Fem in Finland who subtitle in the majority language Finnish.\n\nIn Wallonia (Belgium) films are usually dubbed, but sometimes they are played on two channels at the same time: one dubbed (on La Une) and the other subtitled (on La Deux), but this is no longer done as frequently due to low ratings.\n\nIn Australia, one FTA network, SBS airs its foreign-language shows subtitled in English.\n\nSubtitles in the same language on the same production can be in different categories:\n\n\nSubtitles exist in two forms; open subtitles are 'open to all' and cannot be turned off by the viewer; closed subtitles are designed for a certain group of viewers, and can usually be turned on/off or selected by the viewer – examples being teletext pages, US Closed captions (608/708), DVB Bitmap subtitles, DVD/Blu-ray subtitles.\n\nWhile distributing content, subtitles can appear in one of 3 types:\n\n\nIn other categorization, digital video subtitles are sometimes called internal, if they are embedded in a single video file container along with video and audio streams, and external if they are distributed as separate file (that is less convenient, but it is easier to edit/change such file).\nThere are still many more uncommon formats. Most of them are text-based and have the extension .txt.\n\nFor cinema movies shown in a theatre:\n\nFor movies on DVD Video:\n\nFor TV broadcast:\n\nSubtitles created for TV broadcast are stored in a variety of file formats. The majority of these formats are proprietary to the vendors of subtitle insertion systems.\n\nBroadcast subtitle formats include:\n\n.ESY\n.XIF\n.X32\n.PAC\n.RAC\n.CHK\n.AYA\n.890\n.CIP\n.CAP\n.ULT\n.USF\n.CIN\n.L32\n.ST4\n.ST7\n.TIT\n.STL\n\nThe EBU format defined by Technical Reference 3264-E is an 'open' format intended for subtitle exchange between broadcasters. Files in this format have the extension .stl (not to be mixed up with text \"Spruce subtitle format\" mentioned above, which also has extension .stl)\n\nFor internet delivery:\n\nThe Timed Text format currently a \"Candidate Recommendation\" of the W3C (called DFXP) is also proposed as an 'open' format for subtitle exchange and distribution to media players, such as Microsoft Silverlight.\n\nMost times a foreign language is spoken in film, subtitles are used to translate the dialogue for the viewer. However, there are occasions when foreign dialogue is left unsubtitled (and thus incomprehensible to most of the target audience). This is often done if the movie is seen predominantly from the viewpoint of a particular character who does not speak the language. Such absence of subtitles allows the audience to feel a similar sense of incomprehension and alienation that the character feels. An example of this is seen in \"Not Without My Daughter\". The Persian language dialogue spoken by the Iranian characters is not subtitled because the main character Betty Mahmoody does not speak Persian and the audience is seeing the film from her viewpoint.\n\nA variation of this was used in the video game \"Max Payne 3\". Subtitles are used on both the English and Portuguese dialogues, but the latter is left untranslated as the main character doesn't understand the language.\n\nOccasionally, movies will use subtitles as a source of humor, parody and satire.\n\n\nOne unintentional source of humor in subtitles comes from illegal DVDs produced in non-English-speaking countries (especially China). These DVDs often contain poorly worded subtitle tracks, possibly produced by machine translation, with humorous results. One of the better-known examples is a copy of \"\" whose opening title was subtitled, \"Star war: The backstroke of the west\".\n\nMany words such as \"Mum/Mom\", \"pyjamas/pajamas\", and so on, are commonly spelled according to the accent or national origin of the person speaking, rather than the language, country, or market the subtitles were created for. For example, a British film released in the United States might use \"Mum\" when a British character is speaking, while using \"Mom\" when an American character is speaking.\n\nPhone captioning is a free service provided by the US government in which specially trained operators provide transcriptions for hearing-impaired telephone users.\n\n"}
{"id": "29203051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29203051", "title": "Tamra Mercieca", "text": "Tamra Mercieca\n\nTamra Mercieca (born 29 September 1980) is an Australian author, therapist, and founder of Getting Naked Pty Ltd.\n\nMercieca was born in Kyneton, Victoria, Australia where she attended Kyneton Secondary College, before going on to complete a Graduate Diploma of Arts in Commercial Radio in Melbourne. She spent ten years working in radio as a newsreader and journalist at 5RM Berri, Hot FM Townsville, 104.7 Canberra, Triple M Melbourne, SBS Radio, and Gold FM Melbourne.\n\nIt was in 2002, Mercieca won the Australian Commercial Radio Award for Best News Presenter in a provincial market. During this time, Mercieca also had walk on roles in various television shows such as Neighbours, Last Man Standing and 'The Secret Life Of Us.\n\nWriting from a young age, it wasn’t until her own battle with depression, that she was inspired to pen her first book, \"The Upside Of Down\": A personal journey and toolkit for overcoming depression, self-published in Australia in 2009. The book was endorsed by Lifeline Australia – the organisation asking her to become an advocate.\n\nIt was Mercieca’s recovery and discoveries that led her to become trained in various skills, acquiring a Life and Business certificate in Coaching, before going on to learn the art of neurolinguistics programming, timeline therapy, hypnosis and whole brain intelligence (she is also accredited with the relevant boards in America). It was these skills that guided her develop a program to help other become both depression and pill free.\n\nCombining all of these techniques (along with extensive study into a range of other psychological healing modalities) and developing some of her own, she labelled her new therapy, Naked Therapy, going on to launch her own company Getting Naked Pty Ltd, where she runs tele courses, workshops and does one-on-one sessions, all designed to strip back the layers on what’s stopping a person having complete self-love and self-belief.\n\nIt was while using herself, once again as a guinea pig, to find her Prince, that she learnt: ‘The most important relationship is the relationship you have with yourself.’ This formed the basis for her second book, Getting Naked – The Dating Game (2011), where she navigates her way through the dating landscape of flirtatious flings and romantic rendezvous, sharing her intimate tales of finding love. She was labelled The Relationship Queen or The Queen of Hearts. Her ability to help people fall in love with their own unique selves, winning her spots on national television shows such as Seven Network’s The Morning Show and Sunrise and Network 10’s The Circle.\n\nShe is a regular guest on radio stations around Australia and her articles can be read in leading publications such as The Sunday Herald Sun’s Body and Soul section, Women’s Health and Fitness magazine, Good Health magazine and her own sex column in Nature and Health magazine.\n\nMercieca also applies her healing therapy to sexual issues, being invite to be Sexpo Australia’s Relationship Expert (2013-2015). She has presented keynote talks at the Celebrating Sexuality Sex Camp in Victoria, the Sacred Sex and Consciousness Conference in Byron Bay as well as the Seven Sisters Festival in Victoria. More recently Mercieca was invited to take to the TED stage and share her journey into self-love.\n\nMercieca’s passion lies in helping people feel comfortable and confident in their own skin, and it was this ambition that saw her compete and win a pin up competition in Queensland where she was titled ‘Miss Garterbelts and Gasoline 2011’ With a love of all things vintage, Mercieca enjoys playing drums with her band and sipping tea in the Dandenongs as she crafts her latest manuscript.\n\n"}
{"id": "43691489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43691489", "title": "Tavaana: E-Learning Institute for Iranian Civil Society", "text": "Tavaana: E-Learning Institute for Iranian Civil Society\n\nTavaana: E-Learning Institute for Iranian Civil Society provides free online training and Persian and English learning resources to Iranians. Tavaana – meaning \"empowered\" and \"capable\" in Persian – was launched in 2010 with a mission “to support active citizenship and civic leadership in Iran through education and civil society capacity building.” \n\nThe initiative uses blended civic education via live e-classrooms, correspondence learning, satellite television, and social networks to provide Iranians with education on democracy, women's rights, religious freedom, civic activism, and more. In addition to online courses, the site offers case studies, interviews, translations, public service announcements, e-books, and an online resource library. TavaanaTech is a Persian-language service providing guidance on circumventing internet censorship and keeping safe online.\n\nAccording to Tavaana's website, the project seeks a “free and open Iranian society, one in which each and every Iranian enjoys equality, justice and the full spectrum of civil and political liberties.” Tavaana was founded by Akbar Atri, a former student leader and drafter of a referendum for a democratic Iranian constitution, and Mariam Memarsadeghi, who previously headed Freedom House’s Middle East and North Africa programs. \nTavaana was originally incubated as a project of the Center for Liberty in the Middle East through a seed grant from the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor. In 2011 Tavaana became a project of the E-Collaborative for Civic Education (ECCE), a US-based non-profit organization with a mission to leverage technology to promote civic learning and democratic political life internationally.\n\nTavaana’s instructor-led courses take place on a live interactive platform. Live sessions are supplemented by a discussion forum, podcasts, video lectures, readings, and assignments. Tavaana has trained over 2,800 students in live classrooms and received over 20,000 course applications.\n\nTavaana produces video interviews with Iranian and international activists, such as Vaclav Havel and Azar Nafisi, and case studies on civic movements for human rights, democracy, and Internet freedom worldwide, including the Velvet Revolution and the Civil Rights Movement. There are also translations of democracy classics and texts written by Iranian civic leaders, pedagogic resources, public service announcements, and a virtual library of Persian and English resources.\n\nTavaana partners with Iranian cartoonist Mana Neyestani to produce weekly cartoons as well as an exclusive series of cartoons titled “Moderation Place,” a satirical look at policies and political developments under Iranian President Rouhani.\n\nTavaana's social network includes pages on Facebook, Twitter, Google+, Instagram, Soundcloud, Telegram, and YouTube. Tavaana's Facebook page has over 500,000 followers as of July 2016. Tavaana video programming is also broadcast several times weekly over satellite television stations including Andisheh TV.\n\nTavaana's offerings include classes on democracy and human rights advocacy, citizen journalism, philosophy of law, NGO management, women's rights, labor organizing, minority rights and the politics of inclusion, LGBT rights, the environment, and religious freedom. The project offers several digital safety and technology activism courses.\n\nIn 2012, Tavaana launched TavaanaTech, an open platform for Iranian Internet users to ask questions about digital technology and online safety and receive updates on circumventing censorship, such as through Psiphon. TavaanaTech includes sections on digital safety, computer and Internet news, the Internet in Iran, social networking, and mobile phones and tablets.\n\nIn 2015, Tavaana launched the Tolerance Project, an Arabic-Persian-English civic education effort to promote conscience, pluralism, religious freedom, and celebration of difference. The project is aimed at sparking civic dialogue and providing educational resources for audiences in the Middle East to prevent persecution and genocide.\n\nTavaana has curricular partnerships with several civic education and human rights organizations. Through a joint initiative with Freedom House and the Albert Shanker Institute, Tavaana offers the Democracy Web e-course, translated to Persian. Tavaana partners with The Center for Civic Education/CIVITAS for the translation, adaptation and instruction of the Foundations of Democracy e-course and translation of other curricula. Tavaana has also collaborated closely with the New Tactics in Human Rights Project, Heartland Alliance for Human Rights and Human Needs, George Washington University's Graduate School of Political Management, the Iranian Queer Organization, and the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum.\n\nProminent Tavaana faculty members include:\n\n\nThe Tavaana project was launched with a seed grant from the U.S. Department of State's Bureau for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor. Tavaana has since secured additional funds from the Department of State as well as funding from the National Endowment for Democracy, the Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the U.S. Agency for International Development, and Google, in addition to individual donors. Google provides Tavaana with free AdWords and protection against Denial-of-service attacks through Project Shield.\n\n"}
{"id": "7614152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7614152", "title": "Technical University of Crete", "text": "Technical University of Crete\n\nThe Technical University of Crete (TUC; , \"Polytechneio Kritis\") is a state university under the supervision of the Greek Ministry of Education and was founded in 1977 in Chania, Crete. The first students were admitted in 1984. The purpose of the institution is to conduct research, to provide under-graduate and graduate educational programs in modern engineering fields as well as to develop links with the Greek industry.\n\nThe Technical University of Crete ranks highly among the Greek technical universities in terms of research productivity, research funding, scientific publications and citation per faculty member.\n\nThe emblem of the Technical University of Crete is Daedalus.\n\nThe Technical University of Crete comprises five Engineering Schools, all of which offer undergraduate and postgraduate study programmes. The School of Electronic and Computer Engineering was renamed to School of Electrical and Computer Engineering in July 2016.\n\nThe Technical University of Crete is particularly active in conducting basic and applied research.\n\n\n\"Laboratories:\" Computer Aided Manufacturing, Intelligent Technological Systems, Computer Aided Design, Robotics, Environmental Engineering and Management, Dynamic Systems and Simulation, Decision Support Systems, Data Analysis and Forecasting, Financial Engineering, Management Systems, Work Safety and Cognitive Ergonomics, Applied Socioeconomic Research.\n\n\n\"Laboratories:\" Distributed Multimedia Information Systems and Applications, Intelligent Systems, Software Technology and Network Applications, Electronics, Electric Circuits and Renewable Energy Sources, Microprocessor and Hardware, Automation, Information and Networks, Telecommunications, Digital Image and Signal Processing.\n\n\n\"Laboratories:\" Applied Geology, Applied Geophysics, Applied Mineralogy, Petrology and Economic Geology, Geodesy and Geomatics, Rock Mechanics, Mine Design, Solid Fuels Beneficiation and Technology, Ore Processing.\n\n\n\"Research Fields:\" Liquid and Solid Waste Management, Water Resources and Coastal Engineering, Sustainable Energy, Remediation Engineering, Air Pollution, Environmental Sciences.\n\n\n\"Research Fields:\" Architectural Design, Urban design and Planning, Digital Technologies in Architectural Design, History and Theory of Architecture and Art, Landscape Architecture, Visual Arts, Restoration of Buildings.\n\nThe campus is located on a panoramic site in the peninsula of Maelehas (ancient Keamon, also known as Akrotiri) and covers an area of , 7 km Northeast of Chania. Library, IT & Communications Centre, cafeterias, sports facilities, and students' dormitories are located on campus.\n\nThe Technical University of Crete is among the top Greek institution with the highest rate of research publications per faculty member.\n\nIn 2015 the external evaluation of the institution cited Technical University of Crete as \"Worthy of merit\".\n\nAn external evaluation of all academic departments in Greek universities was recently conducted by the Hellenic Quality Assurance and Accreditation Agency (HQAA).\n\n\nWithin the framework of foreign strong international relations with universities from all over the world, TUC has signed Bilateral Cooperation Agreements with the following institutions:\n\n\nThe Technical University of Crete has conferred the title Doctor Honoris causa to the following distinguished scientists:\n\n\nThe Technical University of Crete cooperate with universities and other organizations of higher learning and research. Within this framework, it has been a member of the European University Association since 1995 (E.U.A), a member of the Conference of European Engineering schools of Advanced Research (CESAER) since 2003.\nCESAER, is a non-profit association of leading engineering universities in Europe. CESAER was set up on May 10, 1990, with headquarters in Leuven, Belgium. The main objectives are to provide high quality engineering education in Europe and to improve links between association members in research, as well as postgraduate and continuing education.\n\nTUC is also a member of the Réseau Méditerranéen des Ecoles d'Ingénieurs (RMEI), a member of the Community of Mediterranean Universities (CMU) and a full partner of NEARCTIS (A Network of Excellence for Advanced Road Cooperative Traffic management in the Information Society). It is an academic network gathering the main teams working on the field of traffic management and optimisation, with a particular focus on cooperative systems for road traffic optimisation, but it covers a wide scope as it appears that cooperative systems have to be integrated into the whole traffic management systems. The full partners are:\n\n\nSOCRATES is a programme funded by the European Union that covers all areas and levels of education. The section involving higher education is called Erasmus. Students can participate in this exchange programme by studying at a particular university in another European country for a short period. Study placements involve either attending classes at a host university. The Technical University of Crete, has signed many bilateral agreements with other universities. The number of the outgoing and incoming students is increasing, year after year, indicating that the programme is very successful.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20842662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20842662", "title": "The Ann Arbor Symposium", "text": "The Ann Arbor Symposium\n\nIn 1978, 1979, and 1981 the sponsored the Ann Arbor Symposium on the Applications of Psychology to the Teaching and Learning of Music at the University of Michigan. The University of Michigan and the Theodore Presser Foundation were co-sponsors. The purpose of the Symposium was to explore the relationship between research in certain areas of behavioral psychology and music education. \n\nIn Session I (1978), papers were presented by leading music education researchers to acquaint the participating psychologists with music education practices, and to present issues to which research psychologists might contribute their knowledge and expertise. \n\nSession II (1979) consisted of presentations of papers by the psychologists on the topics discussed by the music educators the year before. Each presentation in Session I was followed by a response from a psychologist, and in Session II by a music educator. \n\n"}
{"id": "33797225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33797225", "title": "The People's Library", "text": "The People's Library\n\nThe People's Library, also known as Fort Patti or the Occupy Wall Street Library (OWS Library), was a library founded in September 2011 by Occupy Wall Street protesters in lower Manhattan's Zuccotti Park located in the Financial District of New York City. It was temporarily evicted when Zuccotti Park was cleared on November 15, 2011, during which time 5,554 books were thrown away by the New York City Police Department. In April 2013, the Government of New York City was ordered to pay $366,700 for the raid, which was found to have violated the protesters' First, Fourth and Fourteenth Amendment rights.\n\nFounded shortly after Occupy Wall Street activists began protesting, the People's Library began with a cardboard box full of books which was left at Zuccotti Park by a library science student from New York University. A weather event then resulted in the loss of the collection, which prompted Betsy Fagin to bring the idea of an official library before the movement's General Assembly a few weeks later. The assembly appointed Fagin as librarian and a second collection was started. As time passed, volunteers received additional books and resources from readers, private citizens, authors and corporations. In one such instance, musician Patti Smith contributed a tent to the library, which was named \"Fort Patti\" in her honor and used as the library's primary structure until it was destroyed in November. On October 13, 2011 Brookfield Properties, which owns Zuccotti Park, the location of the OWS encampment, ordered a clearing of the park under the pretext of \"cleaning\". Working groups within OWS were divided over how to respond, however, a decision was made for people to stay, but for infrastructure and possessions to be moved to safety. Between one and two thousand books were moved overnight to a large artist warehouse in Jersey City. Brookfield Properties eventually conceded to public pressures and did not move forward with the proposed cleaning. The books where then returned to the park.The library has on occasion received volunteer assistance from the local homeless population, according to a librarian from the New York Public Library.\n\nThe library had 9,500 books cataloged in LibraryThing as of November 2012, and its collection was described as including some rare or unique articles of historical interest that originated as a result of the Occupy protests. According to \"American Libraries\", the library's collection had \"thousands of circulating volumes,\" which included \"holy books of every faith, books reflecting the entire political spectrum, and works for all ages on a huge range of topics.\" A librarian was quoted as saying that \"donated books are never rejected, even if they seem at odds with the ideology behind the protest.\" The collection development policy of the Library, or lack thereof, is this: \"It only has two points: everything we have was donated to us, and we accept everything,\" thus, \"not only was the Library for the people, but, as they are responsible for its creation, that it is of the people.\" The Library Working Group of the OWS People's Library worked in a consensus leadership structure, meaning they need at least a 90% agreement among members to make a decision happen. However, the degreed librarians could make many autonomous actions if they did not detrimentally affect the library or its mission. Unique articles include the \"Occupy Wall Street Poetry Anthology\", which was compiled by the library based on its live poetry sessions and featured poets such as Adrienne Rich and Anne Waldman \"alongside high school kids.\"\n\nDuring the early morning of November 15, 2011, city workers from the Police Department and Sanitation Department forcibly evicted everyone in the park at that time and loaded their property and the 5,500+ book collection into garbage trucks, after a decision by city officials and park owners Brookfield Office Properties using \"public health and environmental issues\" as justification. The People's Library facility was among the assets seized. Following the police action, observers reportedly saw the library's books being thrown into dumpsters.\n\nNew York City mayor Michael Bloomberg stated that the library's collection was safely stored at the sanitation garage on 57th Street, and that it could be retrieved on the following Wednesday. After library representatives returned from the sanitation garage on Wednesday, they posted on the library's website that most of its collection and equipment had been destroyed, damaged or lost. Among the missing or damaged property was the tent that housed the library (including its necessary infrastructure), laptops and rubber stamps bearing marks used to identify library resources. In all, library representatives reported recovering 26 boxes of books from the city. A final total of books recovered that were still usable and actually originated with the library was 802, a small fraction of the number seized.\n\nThe American Library Association (ALA) issued a statement that the dissolution of the library was \"unacceptable\" because libraries \"serve as the cornerstone of our democracy and must be safeguarded.\" The ALA added that the \"very existence of the People's Library demonstrates that libraries are an organic part of all communities\" and that libraries \"serve the needs of community members and preserve the record of community history.\" Of concern was the loss of some rare historical documents and records, which it said are endemic to the Occupy movement. Some of the library's reference materials and some of its regular books lost were autographed by their authors, either while visiting the library or through courier to express moral support. One such example included \"What Work Is\", which was signed and donated in person by United States Poet Laureate Philip Levine hours before its destruction when the park was cleared.\n\nThe executive director of Common Cause said in a statement that the City should \"replace each title, buying two new copies for each one destroyed\" and \"for whatever number is unaccounted for, the city should provide Occupy's librarians with funds sufficient to buy twice as many.\" UC Irvine history professor Mark LeVine expressed his sentiment that \"tents can be replaced, even most personal effects. But destroying books is like destroying the soul of the movement\" and filmmaker Udi Aloni added that \"When they disrespect books, they disrespect humankind, and when they destroy books, they destroy the spirit of humanity. The library was great because people gave more than they took. OWS was not just a place for activism, but also a place for education and rethinking; not for just blathering on when you don't know, but being humble and willing to learn. By taking out the library, they've tried to stop that crucial process.\"\n\nEditors at \"\" mourned the loss of the library's donated electronics and computer equipment, which they believed to have been destroyed by a blunt object.\n\nEfforts to restore the library were initiated shortly after its seizure. The library started a third collection with 100 replacement books, which were subsequently surrounded by police and confiscated by sanitation workers on the night of November 16, 2011. A fourth collection was formed on November 17, 2011 and is currently being distributed from mobile carts.\n\nThe library used an honor system to manage returns and originally operated 24/7. It offered weekly poetry readings on Friday nights, provided a reference service that was frequently staffed by professional librarians, and could attempt to procure materials not held by the People's Library. The library's cataloging system is accessible online at LibraryThing, which donated a free lifetime membership. Prior to the Zuccotti park raid, a lighted reading room, public laptop computers and a Wi-Fi network were also offered.\n\nOn May 24, 2012, the librarians, represented by Norman Siegel, sued the city, mayor Michael Bloomberg, police commissioner Raymond Kelly, and sanitation commissioner John Doherty in federal court. On April 9, 2013, a New York city court ordered the city to pay $366,700 for the raid in which police destroyed some 5,000 books that were part of the library.\n\nSince the formation of the library, activists at related protests throughout North America and in Europe have formed several sister libraries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40520508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40520508", "title": "UDOO", "text": "UDOO\n\nUDOO is a single-board computer with an integrated Arduino Due compatible microcontroller, designed for computer science education, the world of Makers and the Internet of Things.\n\nThe product was launched on Kickstarter in April 2013, reaching wide consensus.\n\"The product line involves three single board computers – UDOO QUAD/DUAL (2013), UDOO NEO (2015), UDOO X86 (2016) – that differ over various aspects, plus the UDOO BLU and the set of UDOO BRICKS.\"\n\nUDOO is a development platform that merges a Dual or Quad Core ARM Freescale Cortex-A9 i.MX 6 CPU, that can run Linux or Android operating systems, and an Arduino Due compatible board with a dedicated ARM Atmel SAM3X8E CPU.\n\nUDOO is a joint effort of Aidilab srl and SECO USA Inc, in collaboration with a multidisciplinary team of researchers with expertise in interaction design, embedded systems, sensor networks and cognitive science.\n\nThe UDOO project was launched on Kickstarter on April 9, 2013 by AidiLab — a Siena University startup — and SECO - an embedded computing firm - and reached the goal of $27,000 in about 40 hours. The goal was well exceeded as 4,172 backers pledged $641,614.\n\nThe UDOO board is equipped with two CPUs. The Freescale i.MX 6 is an ARM Cortex A9 processor based on ARM v7 instruction set. Next generation graphics and high-definition video are central in the i.MX 6 series. The i.MX 6 series supports up to 1080p60 video playback, enabling exceptional high-quality videos with low power consumption for devices playing high-definition content. The 3D graphics engine in the top of the line i.MX 6 Quad and i.MX 6 Dual processors are capable of providing up to 200 Mt/s, which enables ultra-vivid, realistic graphics critical for multimedia. These applications combine the power of the main cores with the until-now-untapped potential of the 3D engine to perform computational tasks.\n\nOtherwise Atmel SAM3X implements real-time computing and allows full compatibility with Arduino Due prototyping board. With this solution UDOO can be used like an Arduino Due microcontroller and programmed in the same way.\n\nThey are both stand-alone with different clocks and no shared memory. They both process their tasks asynchronously without any kind of emulation.\n\nThey do however share some communication channels:\n\nThe i.MX 6 Dual/6 Quad application processors are the latest additions of Freescale Semiconductor to a growing family of multimedia-focused products offering high performance processing optimized for lowest power consumption.\nThe i.MX 6 Dual/6 Quad processors feature Freescale's advanced implementation of the ARM Cortex-A9 core, which can be interfaced with DDR3-1066, LV-DDR3-1066 and LPDDR2-1066 (single and dual channel) DRAM memory devices.\n\nThe i.MX 6 Dual/6 Quad Processor is based on the ARM Cortex A9 MPCore Platform, which has the following features:\n\nThe ARM Cortex A9 MPCore complex includes: \n\nThe i.MX 6 Quad processor makes use of dedicated Hardware accelerators in order to meet the targeted multimedia performance. The use of HW accelerators is a key factor inobtaining high performance at low power consumption numbers, while keeping the CPU core relatively free to perform other tasks.\n\nThe i.MX 6 Quad processor incorporates the following hardware accelerators:\n\n\nMiscellaneous IPs and interfaces:\n\nAtmel’s SAM3X/A series is a member of a family of Flash microcontrollers based on the high performance 32-bit ARM Cortex-M3 RISC processor. It operates at a maximum speed of 84 MHz and features up to 512 Kbytes of Flash and up to 100 Kbytes of SRAM. The peripheral set includes a High Speed USB Host and Device port with embedded transceiver, an Ethernet MAC, 2x CANs, a High Speed MCI for SDIO/SD/MMC, an External Bus Interface with NAND Flash controller, 5x UARTs, 2x TWIs, 4x SPIs, as well as 1 PWM timer, 9x general-purpose 32- bit timers, an RTC, a 12-bit ADC and a 12-bit DAC. The SAM3X/A series is ready for capacitive touch thanks to the QTouch library, offering an easyway to implement buttons, wheels and sliders. The SAM3X/A architecture is specifically designed to sustain high speed data transfers. It includes a multi-layer bus matrix as well as multiple SRAM banks, PDC and DMA channels that enable it to run tasks in parallel and maximize data throughput. It operates from 1.62V to 3.6V and is available in 100- and 144-pin QFP and LFBGA packages. The SAM3X/A devices are particularly well suited for networking applications: industrial and home/building automation, gateways.\n\nThe Freescale i.MX 6 and the Atmel SAM3X are connected through a UART Serial Port embedded on the board. It works exactly like an Arduino connected to an external computer with a USB cable. The SAM3X and Linux communicate on a two way channel, exchanging messages with a tested baudrate of 115200.\n\nThis serial connection is also accessible from the external pins 0 and 1 of the Arduino compatible pinout. The SAM3X programming port is accessible in the same way as Arduino Due: via a USB-to-serial converter or directly on the external pinout. The serial UART is connected to the iMX 6 pins KEYROW0 and KEYCOL0. On the SAM3X side it is connected to pins URXD and UTXD. The shared serial is also available through the micro-USB plug CN6. By removing the J18 jumper, you can communicate on the same channel, which now becomes shared.\nUDOO uses 4 Micron MT41J256M16RE-15E RAM modules (2Gbit for each module) for a total of 1GByte. The clock frequency is 400mhz for UDOO Dual and 528mhz for UDOO Quad.\n\nThe memory system consists of the following levels:\n\n\nThe MAC-NET core, in conjunction with a 10/100/1000 MAC, implements layer 3 network acceleration functions. These functions are designed to accelerate the processing of various common networking protocols, such as IP, TCP, UDP, and ICMP, providing wire speed services to client applications. UDOO uses KSZ9031RNX Ethernet transceiver. It is a completely integrated triple-speed (10BASE-T/100BASE-TX/1000BASE-T) Ethernet physical layer transceiver for transmission and reception of data on standard CAT-5 unshielded twisted pair (UTP) cable. The KSZ9031RNX provides the Reduced Gigabit Media Independent Interface (RGMII) for direct connection to RGMII MACs in Gigabit Ethernet processors and switches for data transfer at 10/100/1000 Mbit/s. The KSZ9031RNX reduces board costs and simplifies board layout by using on-chip termination resistors for the four differential pairs and by integrating an LDO controller to drive a low-cost MOSFET to supply the 1.2V core.\n\nGWF-3M08 is a WLAN module supporting IEEE 802. 11 b/g/n standards with 6-pin connector supporting USB 2.0 /1.1 interface. This is a small form factor and low cost compact WLAN\nmodule designed for the wireless connectivity of products with embedded system.\nThis module operates in 2.4 GHz ISM frequency band, it applies a highly integrated MAC/BBP\nand RF single chip RT5370 with 150Mbit/s PHY rate supporting. This module can be built-in other embedded applications such as IP Camera, IP set top box, GPS, Internet radio apparatus, it can be directly soldered on a main PCB.\n\nFeatures: \n\nFront connectors and ports:\n\nUp-side connectors and ports:\n\nSummary of features in the GPU3D includes:\n\nUDOO provides one of the two i.MX 6 LVDS outputs to the external pinout. This input is used to communicate RGB data and controls to external LCD displays with LVDS interface, or through LVDS receivers.\n\nThe LVDS port may be used as one single-channel output.\n\nWhen you boot Android, the OTG BUS is switched to connect to the SAM3X; therefore, the connection is between the two processors. If you plug a USB cable to CN3 it doesn’t work since it is disconnected.\n\nWith this setup, the i.MX 6 can communicate with the SAM3X using the Android ADK protocol. To do this you must program the SAM3X with a sketch which includes specific libraries and installs an app on Android configured to use the ADK protocol.\n\nUDOO is based on a Dual or Quad core ARM cortex-A9 CPU delivering great performance on both Android and Linux OS, and a dedicated ARM processor for the GPIO. The specifications are:\n\nThe available accessories are:\n\n\nThe Udoo board comes with two micro SD card (optional) with Android and Ubuntu Linux installed.\n\n"}
{"id": "9748470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9748470", "title": "Vladimir Betz", "text": "Vladimir Betz\n\nVladimir Alekseyevich Betz () ( – ) was a Ukrainian anatomist and histologist, professor of the Kiev University (Bogomolets National Medical University), famous for the discovery of giant pyramidal neurons of primary motor cortex.\n\nVladimir Betz began his education in the Nizhyn Gymnasium (Ukraine, part of the Russian Empire at that time). Later he transferred to the 2nd Kiev Gymnasium and graduated from it in 1853. In 1860 he received a physician's diploma from the Medicine faculty of Saint Vladimir University in Kiev (now Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv) and was appointed a prosector's aide at the anatomy department. He went abroad to study in May 1861 and returned in September 1862, having studied with and attended the lectures of professors Brücke, Bunsen, Kölliker, Helmholtz, Kirchhoff. From 1864 to 1867 he lectures anatomy and histology at the university, rising in 1868 to the rank of Extraordinary Professor and in 1870 becoming Ordinary Professor of the anatomy department.\n\nBrain tissue preparations made by Betz were awarded medals twice - at the All-Russian manufacturing exhibition in 1870 and at Vienna World Exposition of 1873. In 1874, Vladimir Alekseyevich described the giant pyramidal neurons in the primary motor cortex, which later were named \"Betz cells\".\n\nBetz' most prominent works include:\n"}
{"id": "10575296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10575296", "title": "Wilfrid Derome", "text": "Wilfrid Derome\n\nWilfrid Derome (19 April 1877 – 24 November 1931) was a Quebec forensic scientist known as the founder of the first Forensic science laboratory in North America, founded in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. The laboratory is now called the Laboratoire des Sciences Judiciaires et de Médecine Légale.\n\nDr. Derome was born in Napierville, Canada and studied at the College of Montreal, Sainte-Marie College, and Joliette Seminary, where he received the Bachelor of Arts in 1898. Later, he received a doctorate of medicine from Université Laval in Montreal in 1902, interning at Notre Dame Hospital.\n\nDuring 1908-1909, Dr. Derome studied Legal Medicine at the University of Paris.\n\nDuring his career, he acted as associate editor the American Journal of Police Science, contributing two articles during 1930. He was a member of the International Association for Identification and the Société de médecine légale de France.\n\nIn 1910, Dr. Derome was appointed Professor of Legal Medicine and Toxicology at the University of Montreal and became head of the Laboratory of Notre Dame Hospital.\n\nHe founded, in June 1914, the first governmental Forensic science laboratory in North America in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. He acted as the Director of the lab since his death in 1931 at the age of 54. He testified as Medical Expert and Ballistic Expert to the Crown in many legal cases during his career.\n\nIn 1922, he became the first Expert in North America to testify in front of the Court on the determination of ethyl alcohol in the blood. In 1926, Dr. Derome invented the microspherometer which can reveal the marks left on the surface of bullets fired from a firearm for the purpose of identification. This discovery allowed to present scientific evidence in Court for the first time in ballistics.\n\nIn 1929, the Derome laboratory was visited by J. Edgar Hoover, from the FBI, in order to plan the foundation of the FBI laboratory.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14222030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14222030", "title": "Willie Dee Bowles", "text": "Willie Dee Bowles\n\nWillie Dee Worley Bowles (February 4, 1912 – November 22, 2000) was an American educator and historian. Her 1939 thesis, \"The History of the Woman Suffrage Movement in Texas\", was one of the first attempts to catalogue the history of the women's suffrage movement in the United States.\n\nBowles was born Willie Dee Worley in Piedmont, Alabama in 1912, and attended the schools of Auburn, Alabama and Rock Hill, South Carolina before beginning her studies at Sam Houston State Teachers' College in Huntsville, Texas in 1926. After graduating from Sam Houston State in 1931, Bowles taught English and Spanish at Alief High School near Houston, Texas until 1934, and then, from 1934 through 1939, taught History at Harlingen High School in Harlingen, Texas. Also in 1934, Bowles entered graduate school at the University of Texas at Austin, where she graduated in 1939 with a masters degree in history. Bowles' thesis, \"The History of the Woman Suffrage Movement in Texas\", was the first historical study of its topic, and one of the first histories of the women's suffrage movement in the United States.\n\nBowles taught for much of the rest of her life in the schools of San Marcos, Texas, where her husband, Dr. D. Richard Bowles, was a longtime professor of education and director of elementary student training at Southwest Texas State University. In 1987, Bowles was inducted into the San Marcos Women's Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "34446347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34446347", "title": "Winifred Lamb", "text": "Winifred Lamb\n\nWinifred Lamb (1894-1963) was a British art historian, archeologist, and museum curator who specialised in Greek, Roman, Anatolian cultures and artifacts. The bulk of her career was spent as the Honorary Keeper of Greek Antiquities at the University of Cambridge's Fitzwilliam Museum from 1920 - 1958. She was the first woman archaeologist involved in the British Anatolian excavations, and the Fitzwilliam museum states that she was a \"generous benefactor and raising the profile of the collections through groundbreaking research, acquisitions and publications.\"\n\nLamb was born on 3 November 1894 at Holly Lodge, Campden Hill, London. She was the daughter of Edmund Lamb, a former Member of Parliament, and Mabel Lamb. Winifred Lamb attended Newnham College of Cambridge University, studying Classics, and earning her degree in 1917. She joined the British Naval Intelligence Department and served throughout World War I, probably working on the decipherment of coded messages sent to German submarines. It was here that Lamb met John Beazley, a renowned archaeologist also working in British Intelligence, who encouraged her in her research. Her fieldwork and excavation skills were honed at the British School at Athens, which she began attending in 1920. In the same year, Lamb was appointed as the first Honorary Keeper of Greek and Roman Antiquities at the Fitzwilliam Museum in Cambridge; her work there involved arranging new displays and sorting and cataloguing the collections and new acquisitions, as well as enhancing the collections by donating numerous items herself (especially bronzes and pottery) and encouraging others to do so. Key publications from her work at the Fitzwilliam include a book on Greek and Roman bronze statues and two volumes of the \"Corpus vasorum antiquorum\" (corpus of ancient vases). \n\nLamb took part in excavations in Mycenae, Sparta, and Macedonia. Following her work in Macedonia, Lamb had started to consider the link between the southern Balkans, the northern Aegean, and northwest Anatolia; her search led her to Lesbos, where in 1928 she identified the site of Thermi. She led her own excavation on this site from 1929 - 1933, publishing her results as a book in 1936. She visited the archaeological excavation of Troy in 1930 and 1932, which inspired further work, allowing her to associate Thermi towns IV and V with Troy IIa. She gave a lecture, expanding on these views, as part of the 1936 exhibition at the Royal Academy of Arts on British Archaeological Discoveries in Greece and Crete 1886 - 1936. \n\nAfter this, she turned her attention to Ankara where, despite the problems for women working in Turkey at this time, other women archaeologists, including Gertrude Bell, Margaret Hardie, and Dorothy Lamb had excavated before the war. She excavated at Kusura in 1936 and 1937, and gave a lecture to the Society of Antiquaries in London on recent developments in the pre-history of Anatolia in 1937. Her interest in the area eventually helped establish the British Institute of Archaeology at Ankara, of which she served as honorary secretary from 1948 - 1957. She also published the Anatolian material held by the Fitzwilliam Museum.\n\nLamb felt that more excavation was required in Anatolia, but her work was interrupted by the outbreak of World War II. In 1941 she joined the Greek language service of the BBC, and from 1942 to 1946 worked for the Turkish section of the Near Eastern department of the BBC. Towards the end of the war she was seriously injured when a V2 rocket hit her lodgings in north London, killing her housemates. She continued her work for the Fitzwilliam Museum until 1958, when she resigned in order to focus on her work on Anatolia and her involvement with the British Institute of Archaeology at Ankara; her donations and her collecting of items over this period had greatly enhanced the Museum's collections of classical antiquities. She died seven years after her retirement to Borden Wood on 16 September 1963 in Easebourne.\n\nShe is the author of numerous books on Greek and Roman antiquities, including the 1929 publication \"Greek and Roman Bronzes\", which was standard reading for studies on the subject. She also wrote a number of reviews for the Journal of Hellenic Studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "26396323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26396323", "title": "Young Reporters for the Environment", "text": "Young Reporters for the Environment\n\nYoung Reporters for the Environment is a programme of the Foundation for Environmental Education. An international network of youth in more than 25 countries, it promotes solutions to today’s environmental issues through investigative journalism.\n\nAt the national level, participants choose local environmental issues to investigate, with the goal of communicating relevant information and solutions to the general public. The students carry out real journalistic enquiries and report their findings in the form of an article, photograph/photographic essay or video. \n\nAn international competition is also held annually.\n\nThe Foundation for Environmental Education is a non-governmental, non-profit organisation promoting sustainable development through environmental education, and is active in five programmes; Blue Flag, Eco-Schools, Learning about Forests (LEAF), Green Key International and Eco-Schools. It has members in 76 countries worldwide.\n\n"}
