{"id": "17305048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17305048", "title": "Archaeological Museum of Dion", "text": "Archaeological Museum of Dion\n\nThe Archaeological Museum of Dion () is a museum in Dion in the Pieria regional unit of Central Macedonia, Greece.\n\nThe museum was established in 1983 to display excavations unearthed in the area from a \nfortified city that once stood in its place from the 6th century BC to the 5th century AD. The artifacts of the museum were also discovered in Olympus, the archaeological site of ancient Leivithra and the wider Pieria regional unit. \n\nThe shown finds are whitnesses of the history of Pieria.\n\nThe rector of the University of Thessaloniki, Georgios Sotiriadis, began with the first excavations from 1928 to 1931. The work was resumed by Georgios Bakalakis 30 years later. From 1973, under the direction of Professor Dimitrios Pandermalis, larger areas of the city were excavated. The works are still continuing under the direction of the University of Thessaloniki. The museum contains many items from when the Romans lived in the area, including statues, architectural members, votive and grave monuments, coins, and many other objects found in the necropolis and the sanctuaries and baths of the ancient city on site. The water organ, the Statue of Dionysos, Isis and Aphrodite Hypolympia and the Asklepios Daughters are displays of particular note.\n\nOn the ground floor of the museum are a number of important statues, including the Statue of Dionysos, the Asklepios Daughters and many others found in the ancient baths. The votive statues of Isis and Aphrodite Hypolympia, were unearthed from the Sanctuary of Isis. The heads of Demeter were also found in the sanctuary. The museum also contains notable exhibits from the necropolis, including further votive offerings found in Macedonian tombs and a wide collection of wooden figurines. \n\nThe ground floor also displays the remains and objects found on the sites of early Christian basilicas, and a notable collection of coins. Notable coins include a gold stater of Philip II, depicting the head of Apollo and a racing chariot with two horses, and a silver tetradrachm of Alexander the Great and a head of Heracles and the Zeus Olympios. A small cinema shows a multilingual video about the history of the excavations at Dion. Professor Pantermalis informs about the past, present and the future of the ancient site. \n\nThe basement of the museum is devoted to objects excavated which relate a significant amount of information about the daily life of the people of ancient Dion, with objects used by them in daily life, and also includes more statues and items of worship from the surrounding regional unit. The museum has a wide selection of vases and jugs, ancient keys and locks and stone processing tools such as hammers and chisels. A number of notable mosaics were also discovered in a complex known as the Dionysos House. Of particular note is the item known as the Mosaic of Dionysus. However the special feature, given its own room on the upper floor, is the \"hydraulis\" or water organ, which is the first organ of its kind found in Greece and the oldest found to date anywhere in the world. The organ was described by Hero of Alexandria and Vitruvius.\n\nOn a stone slab there are also the remains of an alliance agreement between the Macedonian king Philip V and the citizens of Lysimacheia in Thrace.\n\nAmong the remains of the great thermal baths were several statues representing Asklepios, the healer and protector of the body, and parts of his family. Next to his wife Epione were statues of his sons Podaleirios and Machaon. From his daughters, statues of Hygieia, Panakeia, Akeso and Iaso were found.\n\nFrom the second century BC, The Isis cult began to replace the Artemis cult. There were statues of Isis Tyche, Isis Lochia, the goddess of birth, and Aphrodite Hypolympiada. A statue of Julia Phrougiane Alexandra stood upright on the base of the excavations. Furthermore, statuettes of Harpokrates, the companion of the Isis, and stone tables showing footprints of different sizes (possibly of men and women) are exhibited. In addition to the representations of persons, one found the upper part of a well frame as well as cult objects such as a millstone, a fruit press and a small altar.\n\nIt is the oldest sanctuary in Dion to date, and dates back to the 6th century BC. On the site, cult objects, clay figures, lamps, vases and coins were found. Exhibited in the museum are parts of statues from different eras. Thus a head of the Demeter from the 4th century BC, And a head of Aphrodite from the 1st century. AD. The Roman copy of a statue of Artemis (original from the 4th century BC) was found in the spring of the river Baphyras and is exhibited under the designation \"Artemis Baphyria\".\n\nA statue of Perseus, the last king of Macedonia (reign from 179 to 168 BC), and stone writing plaques are exhibited in the museum. \n\nExhibited objects of this sanctuary are cultic statues of Zeus and Hera as well as two stone statuettes of sitting eagles.\n\nFrom early Christian times, stone reliefs, crucifixes and objects of the liturgy can be seen. From the Leda House, a fully preserved marble table, supported by a lion statue, is exhibited. In addition to numerous other statues and statuettes, a mosaic from the Villa of Dionysus is depicted, which represents a Medusa head in a circular frame.\n\nThe most varied coins found in Dion during the excavation are displayed. Among them was the γold stater, which was the most important currency of the Balkans and of Europe and had a value of two γολδ drachms. The silver four drachma coin (τετράδραχημον), which Alexander the Great minted, was common throughout the East of his empire. A chart on the lower floor of the museum shows on a time axis the respectively marked coins in connection with the ruling kings of Macedonia.\n\nThe predominant material for coin production was silver. It was mainly heavy, precious, silver coins, of which pieces were found in Mesopotamia, Egypt or the Levant, and also smaller coins, thought to for the payments of daily life, were minted.\n\nIn addition to the usual means of payment, coins showing gods such as Zeus, Athene or Artemis were found.\n\nIn northern Greece, coins were introduced as an exchange medium quite early. Due to precious metal mines on the Chalkidiki peninsula and the Pangaion Mountains, enough raw materials were available for the coinage. In the first half of the 5th century BC, Alexander I established the coinage in the Macedonian kingdom. The main reason for this step was to pay taxes to the Persians. By expanding his kingdom to the east, Alexander I brought more mines, in the vicinity of Philippi, under his control. The yield from these mines alone was estimated as a talent silver (about 26 kg) per day. Depending on the availability of the raw material silver, the coins were produced either from pure silver, or from a silver alloy with admixture of other metals. From the 5th century BC onwards, Two currencies existed in parallel. Heavy and valuable coins for foreign trade and smaller, lesser value, for payments within Macedonia. By the end of the fifth century, the smaller silver coins were gradually replaced by bronze coins. Phillip II continued to expand the Macedonian state, gaining control over other mines. Next to the minting-house in Pella, another, probably in Amphipolis, was built. From this time gold coins were also manufactured according to the Attic standard (see Attic talent) introduced by Philip II.\n\nA special coin category is the so-called ghost coins (Greek δανακέ, danake). They consist of gold leaf and were put into the mouths of the dead to pay the ferryman Charon. This, according to Greek mythology, brought the dead across a river into the realm of Hades.\n\nThe pieces found in Dion and its surroundings date back to the 4th and 3rd centuries BC, Chr.\n\nAfter the emergence of the Roman Empire (31 BC) Rome secured the sole right to the coinage of gold coins. The Aureus was the only gold coin in circulation. It was used for payments in foreign trade and for the payment of high officials of the Roman state. As an internal currency, the denarius was in circulation. The production of silver coins in Macedonia was discontinued, possibly bronze coins for local trade were still produced. Also in Dion was a local minting area; during the excavations many of these coins were found.\n\nA further innovation of the Roman coin was that for the first time all coins had a uniform appearance.\n\nIn the summer of 1992, the hydraulic organ (ὓδραυλις, \"hydraulis\") was found in excavations within the remains of a building, which is situated opposite the villa of Dionysos. It is one of the most important exhibits of the museum and dates from the 2nd century AD. It corresponds to the instruments mentioned by Heron of Alexandria and Vitruvius. The organ pipes are arranged in two rows and consist of 24 additional and 16 narrower pipes. They were decorated with silver rings. The body of the organ was decorated with silver stripes and multi-colored, rectangular glass ornaments. The instrument found in Dion is the only find of its kind in Greece; It is the oldest, so far discovered specimen of the world.\n\nConstruction materials such as floor tiles, roof tiles, bricks, clay and lead pipes are exhibited. Pottery household vessels, containing oil or wine, were produced with the help of pottery wheels and burnt in kilns. The processing traces of various tools are illustrated on marble pieces. A variety of different chisels are displayed, in addition to which one can directly see the effects of processing the material on the marble. A small loom illustrates how fabrics were made. Mortars and pestles are exposed on stone tools.\n\nA plow from the third century AD, which was found south of the Hellenistic theater, should be mentioned separately. From the 1st century BC, A hand scale was found which was very finely adjustable. Also from the 1st century BC, is a speculum, an instrument used for gynecological examinations.\n\nA model of the hypocaust shows how the thermal baths of the city were heated.\n\nThis excavation lies at the eastern foot of the lower Olympus. The presence of people was proofed from the first half of the 7th millennium BC. First settlements date from the time of the Middle and Late Neolithic Period (5600 - 4500 BC). Some thousand years later (2100 - 1050 BC) hill graves (tumuli) were excavated. The central tomb was considerably larger and deeper than the surrounding tombs, indicating a special status of the deceased.\n\nA Roman cemetery from the 4th century AD consists of 16 graves for 12 adults and 4 children. The numerous grave attachments (Kterismata) were completely preserved.\n\nNamed after the river Tribina (or Derbina), the remains of a settlement dating from the time around 2500 BC. were unearthed. From the Mycenaean era there are 24 tombs, in which either individual persons or up to three persons were buried. The tombs do not have a uniform shape, but they have grave attachments such as vessels, weapons and jewelery.\n\nLocated at the foot of Mount Olympus; The first traces of the presence of people dating around the middle of the 2nd millennium BC. A tumuli from the late Bronze Age was surrounded by a stone ring (10 m diameter). Within the hill grave nine separate graves were found. The tumuli was marked by the collection and arrangement of stones in a certain form (Sema).\n\nTwo graves (named grave \"A\" and grave \"B\") were discovered two kilometers north of Katerini. Grave \"A\" consists of two rectangular chambers with a marble door between the burial chamber and the antechamber. This type of Macedonian grave is the forerunner of the great Macedonian tombs because it lacks the artistic façade which is usually found in Macedonian tombs. It was covered by a flat roof. Grave \"B\" is smaller and has only one burial chamber. Though the graves were stripped long ago, impressive grave remains, exhibited in the Archaeological Museum of Thessaloniki.\n\nNear Makrygialos a skull of a girl was found during excavation from 1994 to 1996, in tomb 108. It had died quite young, because it had not yet a fully developed dentition. For her funeral, she was decorated with a bronze diadem. Next she wore a bronze bracelet, three finger rings, a necklace, and metal fittings on her belt. Archaeologists gave her the name \"sleeping girl\". There were three Mycenaean clay vessels among the burial objects. Diademes of the kind the girl wore them were very rare as burial gifts for girls or young women. They underline the rank of the deceased.\n\nThe Dionysus mosaic is exhibited in this building, which is located west of the museum and was completed in 2007. From a gallery the mosaic can be viewed from all sides. In showcases the visitor is presented the latest finds from excavations from Dion and surrounding ancient sites. A video informs about the dismantling of the mosaic at its site, the transport to the Archaiothiki and the subsequent restoration. The building was built especially for the exhibition of the Dionysus mosaic.\n\nSouth of Archaeothiki is the scientific laboratory. It is operated by the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki.\n\nSoutheast of the museum, archaeological finds from Dion, Leivithra and the surrounding area are stored in a long-stretched building. In a workshop, professional staff deal with the cataloging and cleaning of the finds. Repairs of broken pottery are performed on an all-round table.\n\nDimitrios Pandermalis: \"Dion. The archaeological site and the museum.\", Athens 1997\n\nThe museum offers guided tours for young school children and has a room devoted to educational activities.\n\nThe Dion Archaeological Museum opens from Tuesday to Sunday at 8:00–19:00 and on Monday from 12:30–19:00 during the summer, and in the winter it opens on Monday–Friday from 8:00 to 17:00 and on a Saturday and Sunday from 8:00 to 14:30.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "768582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=768582", "title": "Archdeacon", "text": "Archdeacon\n\nAn archdeacon is a senior clergy position in the Syriac Orthodox Church, Church of the East, Chaldean Catholic Church, Anglican Communion, St Thomas Christians, Eastern Orthodox churches and some other Christian denominations, above that of most clergy and below a bishop. In the High Middle Ages it was the most senior diocesan position below a bishop in the Catholic Church. An archdeacon is often responsible for administration within an archdeaconry, which is the principal subdivision of the diocese. The \"Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church\" has defined an archdeacon as \"A cleric having a defined administrative authority delegated to him by the bishop in the whole or part of the diocese.\" The office has often been described metaphorically as that of \"oculus episcopi\", the \"bishop's eye\".\n\nIn the Latin Catholic Church, the post of archdeacon, originally an ordained deacon (rather than a priest), was once one of great importance as a senior official of a diocese. The duties are now performed by officials such as auxiliary or coadjutor bishops, the vicar general, and the episcopal vicars. The title remains.\n\nThe term \"archdeacon\" appears for the first time in Optatus of Mileve's history of Donatism of about 370, in which he applies it to someone who lived at the beginning of that century. From the office of the \"diaconus episcopi\", a deacon whom the bishop selected to administer the church's finances under the bishop's personal direction, the office of archdeacon gradually developed, as certain functions were reserved to him by law. These functions included not only financial administration but also the discipline of the clergy, and examination of candidates for priesthood. From the 8th century, there was in the West a further development of the authority of the archdeacon, who now enjoyed a jurisdiction independent of the bishop. \n\nLarge dioceses had several archdeaconries, in each of which the archdeacon, had an authority comparable to that of the bishop. Frequently they were appointed not by the bishop but by the cathedral chapter or the king. However, from the 13th century, efforts were made to limit their authority. This was effected in part by the institution of the new office of vicar general, who would be a priest rather than a deacon. In 1553, the Council of Trent removed entirely the independent powers of archdeacons. Those who had been in charge of different parts of the diocese gradually ceased to be appointed. Only the archdeacon associated with the cathedral chapter continued to exist as an empty title, with duties almost entirely limited to liturgical functions.\n\nThe title of archdeacon is still conferred on a canon of various cathedral chapters, and the word \"archdeacon\" has been defined in relation to the Latin Catholic Church as \"a title of honour conferred only on a member of a cathedral chapter\".\n\nHowever, Eastern Catholic Churches still utilize archdeacons.\n\nArchdeacons serve the church within a diocese by taking particular responsibility for buildings, including church buildings, the welfare of clergy and their families and the implementation of diocesan policy for the sake of the Gospel within an archdeaconry. An archdeaconry is a territorial division of a diocese; these vary in number according to the size of the diocese and in a few cases an assistant bishop in a diocese will also fulfil the duties of an archdeacon in part of it, as in the Archdeaconry of Bodmin 1953–62 (the Archdeaconry of Bodmin is one of two archdeaconries in the Diocese of Truro). Recently, this type of dual role has only existed in the Bishop suffragan(-Archdeacon) of Ludlow.\n\nAn archdeacon is usually styled \"The Venerable\" instead of the usual clerical style of \"The Reverend\". In the Church of England the position of an archdeacon can only be held by a priest who has been ordained for at least six years. (This rule was introduced in 1840; the requirement that an archdeacon be in priest's orders was enacted in 1662.) In the Church of England, the legal act by which a priest becomes an archdeacon is called a \"collation\". If that archdeaconry is annexed to a canonry of the cathedral, the archdeacon will also be \"installed\" (placed in a stall) at that cathedral.\n\nIn some other Anglican churches archdeacons can be deacons instead of priests; such archdeacons often work with the bishop to help with deacons' assignments to congregations and assist the bishop at ordinations and other diocesan liturgies. The Anglican ordinal presupposes that the functions of archdeacons include those of examining candidates for ordination and then presenting them to the ordaining bishop. In some parts of the Anglican Communion where women cannot be consecrated as bishops, the position of archdeacon is effectively the most senior office a female cleric can hold: this being the current situation, for example, in the Anglican Diocese of Sydney.\n\nVery rarely, \"lay archdeacons\" have been appointed, most notably in the case of the former Anglican Communion Observer to the United Nations, Archdeacon Taimalelagi Fagamalama Tuatagoloa-Leota, who retained her title after having served as Archdeacon of Samoa.\n\nIn the Eastern Christian churches (Eastern Orthodox Church and Eastern Catholic Churches), an archdeacon is the senior deacon within a diocese and has responsibility for serving at hierarchical services (those at which the bishop is present and presiding). He has responsibility for ensuring the smooth running of the service by directing the clergy and servers as appropriate. As such, he usually travels with the ruling bishop to various parts of the diocese, and will sometimes act as his secretary and cell attendant, ensuring that he is able to balance his monastic life with his hierarchical duties. The archdeacon wears the double orarion, which is twice the length of the usual orarion, and wraps under the right arm as well as hanging from the left shoulder. An archdeacon may come from either the monastic or married clergy.\n\nA protodeacon also wears the double orarion, although he is distinguished from the archdeacon in that he is the senior deacon at a cathedral or other principal church within a diocese and serves as the principal deacon when a number of deacons serve together.\n\nAccording to the canons of the Eastern churches, an archdeacon is of the highest priestly rank: he is the head of all the clerics belonging to a bishopric; he is responsible for the whole worship of the cathedral church and represents the will of the bishop in his absence. However, from the local point of view, the rank of an archdeacon was more important than this; not only was he the most important priest of the community, but he also fulfilled the role of an ethnarch. An archdeacon was the \"prince and head of the Christians of Saint Thomas\" and had such titles as \"Archdeacon and Gate of All India, Governor of India\". The origin and the meaning of the term \"gate\" is mysterious. One might suppose that it is a Christological title: \"I am the Gate of the sheep\" (Gospel of John 10:7). While the Catholicos Patriarch of Seleucia-Ctesiphon reserved for himself the right to send his own prelates originating from Iraq to the Indian diocese, the continuous governance of his Indian flock was secured by the indigenous Archdeacon serving as the head of all the priests in Malabar and representing the bishop's will.\n\nAccording to the traditional structure, the Indian Church of the East was governed by a metropolitan sent by the Catholicos Patriarch. At the same time, at the local level, in India, church affairs were governed by the Malabar Assembly or \"Malankara Yogam\". There was also an indigenous head of the Church of Malabar, the \"head of the caste\", that is the head of the St Thomas Christians called \"Jathikku Karthavyan\" or \"Malankara Mooppen\". Patriarch Timothy (780–826) of Persia called him the head of the faithful in India.\n\nWhile originally an archdeacon in the Church of the East was elected by the bishop according to merit, the office of the Archdeacon of India seems to have been dynastic. It was the privilege of the Pakalomattam family, at least from the sixteenth century onwards. Indeed, we know about a number of Pakalomattam archdeacons, beginning with 1502, when Metropolitan John of India appointed George Pakalomattam. The name of the family varies, and the family seems to be identical with the Parambil family, translated into Portuguese as 'de Campo'.\n\nAn archdeacon had all the attributes of a secular leader and was normally escorted by a number, sometimes several thousands, of soldiers. It is important to note that while there could be several bishops appointed for the Malabar Church, there was always only one archdeacon, a custom contrary to the canons of the Church of the East. This situation is best explained by the fact that from the point of view of the East Syriac Church structure the archdeacon had an ecclesiastical function, but from that of the St Thomas Christian community he had also a socio-political, princely function, representing the unity of the Christian nation, or caste(s), of Hindoo (India). Portuguese colonists stopped this practice among the Syro-Malabar Catholic and Pulikkottil Mar Dionysious stopped this amongst the Malankara Syrian Church later in 1816.\n\nIn the Coptic Orthodox and Coptic Catholic Churches, the Archdeacon is the highest rank in the order of deacons. The lower ranks of the diaconate are Deacon, Subdeacon, Lector and Cantor, the holders of all of which ranks the Coptic people generically refer to as \"deacons\". However, the rank of archdeacon is lower than the rank of a priest Thus it is possible for a deaconess to be ordained to the rank of an archdeaconess within the Coptic tradition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1025093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1025093", "title": "Archdemon", "text": "Archdemon\n\nIn some Occult and similar writings, an archdemon (also spelled archdaemon) is a spiritual entity, prominent in the infernal hierarchy as a leader of demons. Essentially, the archdemons are the evil counterparts of the archangels.\n\nArchdemons are described as the leaders of demonic hosts, just as archangels lead choirs of angels. Based upon the writings of Saint Paul (Col. 1:16; Eph. 1:21) the angelic court had been constructed by Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite and comprised nine orders of angels with three orders each to three hierarchies.\n\nThe First Hierarchy consists of: Seraphim, Cherubim and Thrones. The Second Hierarchy consists of: Dominions, Virtues and Powers. The Third Hierarchy consists of: Principalities, Archangels and Angels. This system of classifying angels has been accepted by the majority of Christian scholars. However, no similar consensus has been reached on the \nclassification of demons. This is largely due to the fact that, historically, the definition of what an archdemon is and the names of those demons has varied greatly over time.\n\nOne common medieval classification associate the seven deadly sins with archdemons:\n\nIn the Occult tradition, there is controversy regarding which demons should be classed as archdemons. During different ages, some demons were historically \"promoted\" to archdemons, others were completely forgotten, and new ones were created. In ancient Jewish lore, many of the pagan gods of neighboring cultures were identified as extremely pernicious demons in order to prevent Jews from worshiping them.\n\nTherefore, the pagan deity Ba'al was reinterpreted as the archdemon Bael or Beelzebub, and the pagan deity Astarte was reinterpreted as the archdemon Astaroth. These two in particular were seen as some of the worst enemies of God. By the Middle Ages, these pagan deities were no longer worshiped, so their characterizations as archdemons were no longer important, but they still persisted anyway. New archdemons were invented over time, most of them revolving around Satan and the Antichrist.\n\nAhmad al-Buni qualified four kings of infernal demons named \"Mudhib\", \"Maimun\", \"Barqan\" and \"al-Ahmar\", as archdemons paralleling the hierarchy of archangels in Islam. Each of them has their own demons under command. These kings are identified with different days of the week. Their names are sometimes inscribed in Talismans.\n\nAccording to Zoroastrian dualistism, the world is created by two opposing forces. The \"good\" deity Ahura Mazda created everything good, but for everything good created Ahriman created an evil coutnerpart. These results in the existence of seven Archdemons, who in return command a countless numbers of demons. These archdemons stay in exact oppostion to the Amesha Spenta.\n\nThe Lesser Key of Solomon, an anonymous 17th century grimoire, lists 72 of the most powerful and prominent demons of Hell in its first part, the \"Ars Goetia\". Satan himself is not mentioned among them considering his overall dominion of Hell as the \"Prince of Darkness\". Below him, The Ars Goetia suggests, are the four kings of the cardinal directions who have power over the seventy-two, next the kings, and onward with other demons with lower monarchic titles. The four kings of the cardinal directions are the primary point of contention between different editions and translations, and occultist writers. The common composition of the kings is:\n\n"}
{"id": "2180929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2180929", "title": "Asherah pole", "text": "Asherah pole\n\nAn Asherah pole is a sacred tree or pole that stood near Canaanite religious locations to honor the Ugaritic mother-goddess Asherah, consort of El. The relation of the literary references to an \"asherah\" and archaeological finds of Judaean pillar-figurines has engendered a literature of debate.\n\nThe asherim were also cult objects related to the worship of the fertility goddess Asherah, the consort of either Ba'al or, as inscriptions from Kuntillet ‘Ajrud and Khirbet el-Qom attest, Yahweh, and thus objects of contention among competing cults. In translations that render the Hebrew \"asherim\" into English as \"Asherah poles,\" the insertion of \"pole\" begs the question by setting up unwarranted expectations for such a wooden object: \"we are never told exactly what it was\", observes John Day. Though there was certainly a movement against goddess-worship at the Jerusalem Temple in the time of King Josiah (2 Chronicles 34:3), it did not long survive his reign, as the following four kings \"did what was evil in the eyes of Yahweh\" (2 Kings 23:32, 37; 24:9, 19). Further exhortations came from Jeremiah. The traditional interpretation of the Biblical text is that the Israelites imported pagan elements such as the Asherah poles from the surrounding Canaanites. In light of archeological finds, however, modern scholars now theorize that the Israelite folk religion was Canaanite in its inception and always polytheistic, and it was the prophets and priests who denounced the Asherah poles who were the innovators; such theories inspire ongoing debate.\n\nAsherim are mentioned in the Hebrew Bible in the books of Exodus, Deuteronomy, Judges, the Books of Kings, the second Book of Chronicles, and the books of Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Micah. The term often appears as merely \"אשרה\", (\"Asherah\") referred to as \"groves\" in the King James Version, which follows the Septuagint rendering as ἄλσος, pl. ἄλση, and the Vulgate \"lucus\", and \"poles\" in the New Revised Standard Version; no word that may be translated as \"poles\" appears in the text. Scholars have indicated, however, that the plural use of the term (English \"Asherahs\", translating Hebrew \"Asherim\" or \"Asherot\") provides ample evidence that reference is being made to objects of worship rather than a transcendent figure.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible suggests that the poles were made of wood. In the sixth chapter of the Book of Judges, God is recorded as instructing the Israelite judge Gideon to cut down an Asherah pole that was next to an altar to Baal. The wood was to be used for a burnt offering.\n\nDeuteronomy 16:21 states that YHWH (rendered as \"the \") hated \"Asherim\" whether rendered as poles: \"Do not set up any [\"wooden\"] Asherah [\"pole\"] beside the altar you build to the your God\" or as living trees: \"You shall not plant any tree as an Asherah beside the altar of the Lord your God which you shall make\". That Asherahs were not always living trees is shown in 1 Kings 14:23: \"their asherim, beside every luxuriant tree\". However, the record indicates that the Jewish people often departed from this ideal. For example, King Manasseh placed an Asherah pole in the Holy Temple (2 Kings 21:7). King Josiah's reforms in the late 7th century BC included the destruction of many Asherah poles (2 Kings 23:14).\n\nExodus 34:13 states: \"Break down their altars, smash their sacred stones and cut down their Asherim [Asherah poles].\"\n\nSome biblical archaeologists have suggested that until the 6th century BC the Israelite peoples had household shrines, or at least figurines, of Asherah, which are strikingly common in the archaeological remains.\n\nRaphael Patai identified the pillar figurines with Asherah in \"The Hebrew Goddess\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39699241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39699241", "title": "Asuri metre", "text": "Asuri metre\n\nAsuri is a metre of the Zend Avesta.\n\nThe Asuri metre is used in the Zend Aveta. They have been mentioned in the Yajurveda. Dr. Haug states: \"Among the metres used in the Yajurveda, we find several which are marked by the epithet Asuri, e.g., Gayatri Asuri, Ushni Asuri, and Pankti Asuri. These Asur metres are actually to be found in the Gatha literature of the Zend Avesta\".\n\nThe Shukla Yajurveda mentions seven Asuri metres. The Asuri metres are embodied by the Gathas; such as the \"Gayatri asuri\" of 15 syllables in Ahunavaiti (Yas. XXXI,6; XXXI, 4), the \"Usnih asuri\" of 14 syllables in the Gatha Vohukhsathra (Yas. II); the \"Pankti asuri\" of 11 syllables in the Gathas Ustavaiti and Spenta-Mainyu.\n\nDr. Haug's research into the vedic and avestan metres found comparable similarities. For example the metre of Gatha Spentamainyu is Trishtubh while that of Ushtaviti Gatha is similar to vedic Trishtubh. The Ushtaviti Gatha exceeds the Trishtubh by only one pada of 11 syllables. The Yasna xxxi, verse 8 is nearest to Gayatri metre and Fargard xix to the Anushtubh. The metre of Homayasht is also near to Anushtubh.\n"}
{"id": "1634203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1634203", "title": "Azriel (Jewish mystic)", "text": "Azriel (Jewish mystic)\n\nAzriel of Gerona, also known as Azriel ben Menahem (Heb. עזריאל בן מנחם) (c. 1160 – c. 1238), was one of the most important kabbalists in the Catalan town of Girona (north of Barcelona) during the thirteenth century when it was an important center of Kabbalah. He is the teacher of the most important figure from the kabbalist community of Girona, Nahmanides.\n\nAzriel was the most important student of the mystic Isaac the Blind. His writings covered subjects pertaining to the sefirot and included his mystical interpretation of Jewish liturgy and of the aggadah. He took on Gabirol's philosophical work to integrate it into the ten sefirot.\n\nWhile his teacher Isaac the Blind considered Divine Thought to be the first supernatural quality to emanate from the Ayn Sof (or Eternal Being), Azriel argued that Divine Will was the first emanation. Therefore, it was the act of the will rather than the act of the intellect that was the first manifestation of God’s Eternal Being.\n"}
{"id": "22320511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22320511", "title": "Bob Adams (American football)", "text": "Bob Adams (American football)\n\nRobert Bruce Adams (born August 15, 1946) is a former professional American football tight end in the National Football League (NFL) and a spokesperson for the Church of Scientology International. He attended El Camino High School during the 1960s, and was encouraged by a coach at the College of San Mateo to play football. He played for a single season at the college, during 1966, while participating in other sports at the school including track-and-field and basketball. A former coach of the College of San Mateo, Doug Scovil, recruited Adams to the College of the Pacific, where he received a full scholarship to play football there. By 1968, he was captain of the team's offense at the school.\n\nHe was not drafted by the National Football League, and was signed as a free agent with the Pittsburgh Steelers, where he played under coach Chuck Noll. In 1973 while a member of the Pittsburgh Steelers, Adams became a Scientologist. He said applying Scientology methodology helped his performance playing football. After seven years with the National Football League, Adams finished his pro-career as a member of the Atlanta Falcons. He subsequently took up other professions, including owning a fitness center in Redwood City, California, being a consultant for high tech companies, and working as a teacher.\n\nIn 2004, Adams served within the Scientology organization as senior vice president of its Association for Better Living and Education (ABLE), a nonprofit founded by Scientology members in 1988 to supervise the secular programs Narconon, Criminon, The Way to Happiness, and Applied Scholastics. By 2006 he had become a media executive and vice president of the Church of Scientology, and worked out of the organization's facilities in Hollywood, California. He represented the Church of Scientology at the 2006 conference of the Religion Newswriters Association in Utah. Adams held the position of vice president of public affairs for the Church of Scientology International in 2009, and was a Reverend within the organization. He traveled to Melbourne, Australia in December 2009 for the World Religions Conference. He continued to serve as vice president of the Church of Scientology International in 2010, and was one of four officials listed as spokespersons for the church.\n\nRobert Bruce Adams was born August 15, 1946, in Stockton, California. He attended El Camino High School during the 1960s, and quit playing American football during his senior year at the school, due to his small stature. After high school, he went to College of San Mateo, and a coach named Stu Carter noticed Adams while he was weight lifting at the college. Carter convinced Adams to play football, and he played for a single season at the College of San Mateo; during 1966. Adams concurrently played track-and-field and basketball at the College of San Mateo.\n\nAfter the College of San Mateo, he participated in football at University of the Pacific. He had played tight end at the College of San Mateo, and a former coach at the school, Doug Scovil, took interest in him. Scovill was managing the football program called College of the Pacific in Stockton, California; he offered Adams a full scholarship to play football. Adams's friend, Walt Harris, was a football player under Scovil; this combined with the full scholarship opportunity convinced Adams to join. He was a football player at College of the Pacific for two seasons, and by his senior year at the school in 1968 had become captain of the team's offense.\n\nAdams was signed as a free agent by the Pittsburgh Steelers, after he was not drafted by the National Football League. His contract with the Pittsburgh Steelers was for a US$1,000 signing bonus, and $15,000 contract. Chuck Noll, a new coach in the National Football League, supervised Adams's initial performance as a pro-football player. Adams played for the Pittsburgh Steelers in the position of tight end. He became a member of the Church of Scientology in 1973, while playing for the Pittsburgh Steelers. Adams told \"Newsweek\" that he joined the church because he was looking for \"assistance to become a better football player, teacher and parent ... [Scientology] was simple, precise, workable, and I saw effects immediately on the field.\" While a member of the New England Patriots in 1974, Adams attended an event held in Boston, Massachusetts sponsored by the Scientology organization, called the New England Conference on Drug Abuse. Adams ended his pro-football career playing with the Atlanta Falcons; he earned a salary of $54,000 in his final year with the team. Adams played for seven years in the National Football League.\n\nAfter finishing his career with the National Football League, Adams took up multiple other professions. He worked as a consultant for high tech companies, and as a teacher and author. He was the owner of an exercise facility in Redwood City, California. The Scientology publication \"Freewinds\" noted in 1990 that Adams had completed the highest Operating Thetan level of spiritual advancement, OT VIII. In 2004, Adams served as senior vice president of the Association for Better Living and Education (ABLE), a nonprofit founded by Scientology members in 1988 to supervise the secular programs Narconon, Criminon, The Way to Happiness, and Applied Scholastics. In an interview with the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", Adams objected to an assessment that international Scientology management ran the subdivisions of ABLE. Adams stated, \"ABLE does not report its statistics to the church.\" He commented on the purpose of Narconon, \"We feel we're on a mission, and it's for the good of all of us. It's part of the overall plan to collaborate with other groups and bring about a shift in the culture with regard to drug education, prevention and rehabilitation.\"\n\nAdams worked in 2006 as a media executive for the Scientology organization out of its offices in Hollywood, California; he was a vice president of the Church of Scientology International in 2006. He represented the Church of Scientology at the 2006 conference of the Religion Newswriters Association in Utah, and participated in a panel discussion called, \"Faiths That Don't Fit: Classifying and Reporting on 'Other' Churches\". Adams discussed the Scientology policy of \"Fair Game\" in a 2008 interview with \"The Times\": \"That policy (of fair game) was yanked very quickly. As in any organisation made up of lots of people, some will be internal renegades, if you will. Those people paid the price. And those days are over now.\"\n\nIn 2008, Adams served as vice president of the Church of Scientology International. When asked in a January 2008 interview with \"The New Yorker\" about the Scientology story involving a galactic ruler named Xenu, Adams responded, \"A small fraction of our scriptures are confidential, and I don't want to allude to something confidential.\" He asserted that the controversial Scientology program the \"Rehabilitation Project Force\" (RPF) was a \"volunteer program for self-improvement\". Adams commented about the RPF, \"They get frequent breaks, eight hours of sleep, and three healthy meals. The principal part is auditing, but the physical activity is very extrovertive for the individual and is found to be very therapeutic in itself.\" Adams was interviewed on the National Public Radio program \"Morning Edition\" in 2008 about the activism against Scientology by the Internet-based protest group Anonymous; he referred to the group as \"cyber criminals\", and commented: \"It's very reminiscent of days gone by and current days with the KKK, wearing masks, hiding, having secret meetings on the Internet.\"\n\nHe held the position of vice president of public affairs for the Church of Scientology International in 2009, and was a Reverend within the organization. Adams traveled to Melbourne, Australia in December 2009 for the World Religions Conference. In an appearance on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation radio program hosted by Tony Eastley, \"AM\", Adams stated, \"From one church in 1954 to ... we're in 165 nations now; we have 8,000 churches, missions and groups right across this fair earth of ours.\" Adams disputed assertions of abuse within Scientology publicized on the floor of the Australian Senate by Senator Nick Xenophon and commented, \"It's not that the allegations aren't serious charges; the fact of the matter is that they are unsubstantiated rumours. Many of these so-called charges, so-called allegations are very old. I mean, 12 or 15 years ago, these incidents occurred, were thoroughly reviewed.\" Regarding statements by Senator Xenophon that women within Scientology who became pregnant were pressured into having abortions, Adams said, \"That's someone's statement of... it's totally false. There's no proof whatsoever; no one has ever made... no one has come forward and said here's the proof.\" Adams asserted to \"The Age\" that all of the critical statements made by Senator Xenophon about Scientology in the Australian Senate were \"meritless\". He commented, \"One way to measure that is how law enforcement responds to any of these allegations. There has been no interest because there has been no evidence. Apostates are not credible witnesses, like former spouses or employees - they are trying to find a reason why they departed.\"\n\nIn July 2010 the Church of Scientology International publicized a \"Scientology Newsroom\" website tailored for members of the media; Adams was one of four international representatives for Scientology listed as \"Spokespersons\". Adams served as vice president of the Church of Scientology International in 2010. In his role as Scientology spokesman, he commented to \"The Seattle Times\" in August 2010 that critical articles including revelations from former members published in that year by the \"St. Petersburg Times\" of Florida were \"based on lies by 'apostates' who want to see the church fail\". Adams asserted, \"The history of all new religions is they go through a time of trial where the public is skeptical.\" He stated that increased attention in the media to the organization could help to recruit more members, \"It's a new religion. Whatever publicity we get, people are curious.\"\n\nAdams's first child was born December 8, 1971. In 1972, Adams and his wife Marilyn resided with their baby son in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; they had a house in Bethel Park. In 2006, Adams was divorced, and had one child.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48982879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48982879", "title": "Bubasteum", "text": "Bubasteum\n\nThe Bubasteum was a Ptolemaic and Roman temple complex dedicated to Bastet in the cliff face of the desert boundary of Saqqara. In Arabic the place is called Abwab el-Qotat (\"The Gates of the Cats\").\n\nThe temple complex is surrounded by a 275 meter wide and 325 metre long enclosure wall and is located southeast of the Pyramid of Teti and south of the Anubieum. It had a large entrance way in the south wall, a feline necropolis and settlements. In the New Kingdom, the location was already the site of a temple of Bastet, who was honoured as the \"Lady of Ankhtawy\".\n\nProper investigation of the site was begun in 1976 by Alain-Pierre Zivie and the first excavations began in 1980. In 1986, the Mission Archéologique Française du Bubasteion (MAFB), was founded, which has overseen all investigations of the site since then.\n\nIn the second half of the 18th Dynasty, high dignitaries created rock-cut tombs for themselves in this area, which were later reused as cat-catacombs. To date, more than a hundred cat mummies and thousands of cat bones have been found. The cat cemetery developed in the second half of the first millennium BC became as important as the cat cemetery at Bubastis. Radiographic investigations showed that the majority of cats were killed at a young age by either strangulation or by violent blows on their skulls. Several examined packets contained only a few cat bones, and others even no bones at all, but only clay and pebbles. The cats were mummified in two different manners. In the one, the legs and tail were bound and wrapped close to the body; in the other, head, body, legs and tail were separately wrapped in cloth, some with eyes and ears added. Some mummies were found in wooden or stone sarcophagi. Some were even buried with kittens, sculptures, jewellery and amulets. The mummification procedure was quite basic: the animal was simply dried out without removing the innards. The priests perhaps sold pilgrims mummies of different qualities.\n\nIn the tomb of Tutankhamun's wet-nurse Maia found on the site in 1996, a lion skeleton was excavated in 2001. The lion was considered a manifestation of the god Maahes, son of Bastet.\n\nOn the south side of the Bubasteum, near the excavation headquarters of the French mission, is a Steilhang, which contains two levels of tombs. These were created by high officials in the 18th and 19th Dynasties and were plundered in the Late Period. After this they were remodelled and reused for the cat mummies from the nearby sanctuary of Bastet. Two of these tombs were discovered in the early 1980s and the rest have been uncovered more recently. The majority of the graves are carved from the rock face, but some are built of high-value Tura limestone. The decoration is very diverse, often differing significantly within individual tombs. It consists mainly of reliefs, as well as paintings which vary from good to exceptional quality. Many of the items discovered in the tombs, especially those from the tomb of Aperel, are now found in the Imhotep Museum at Saqqara.\n\nThe numbering of the tombs is that of the MAFB, in which the tombs of the upper level are numbered with a Roman numeral I and those of the lower level with a II. There is possibly a third level, buried under debris. After the roman numeral, the individual tombs are numbered from east to west with Arabic numerals\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1344040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1344040", "title": "Doris (mythology)", "text": "Doris (mythology)\n\nDoris (; Δωρίς \"bounty\"), an Oceanid, was a sea nymph in Greek mythology, whose name represented the bounty of the sea. She was the daughter of Oceanus and Tethys and the wife of Nereus. She was also aunt to Atlas, the Titan who was made to carry the sky upon his shoulders, whose mother Clymene was a sister of Doris. Doris was mother to Nerites and the fifty Nereids, including Thetis, who was the mother of Achilles, and Amphitrite, Poseidon's wife, and mother of Triton.\n\nDoris when not associated with a god, was considered the fertility of the ocean, goddess of the rich fishing-grounds found at the mouths of rivers where fresh water mingled with the brine. Being an Okeanide meant she was a sister of the Rivers. Her name is connected with two words: Dôron meaning \"gift\" or \"abundance,\" and Zôros meaning the \"pure\" and \"unmixed.\" Zôros was often used to describe fresh water or in terms of the teachings of the day, the pure soul of a woman, and from this derived words such as zôrua \"the transference of running water\" and zôrux \"water conduit.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3433713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3433713", "title": "Farooqi", "text": "Farooqi\n\nFarooqi (); also transliterated as Farooqui, Faruki or Al Farooqi), is a distinct name or surname or last name of Arabic origin.\n\nThe name purportedly signifies ancestry from Umar ibn al-Khattāb, commonly known as Umar (), the second Caliph of Islam. Umar was also titled 'al-Farooq' (the Redeemer).' Today Farooqies are a multilingual Muslim community spread across Turkey', Romania, Middle East' and parts of Europe.\n\nFarooqis are descendants of 'Umar ibn al-Khattāb, the second Sunni Caliph (c. 581 – 644), sometimes referred by Muslims as 'Umar al-Farooq (\"the one who distinguishes between right and wrong\").They are descendants from the Banu Adi clan of the Quraysh tribe. Many of the relatives of the same generation were also Sahaba and his daughter Hafsa bint Umar and his grandsons were Salaf.\n\nFarooqis after playing a part in the Rashidun and following Caliphates, joined the Ottoman Empire and branched out to various parts of the world as generals, military or powerful spiritual leaders in various Muslim Empires and Dynasties and their further outreaches and smaller empires to spread across Middle East, Turkey and parts of Europe and South Asia. See also List of Muslim empires and dynasties.\n\nMuhammed Sharif al-Faruqi, an Arab Ottoman staff officer, played a pivotal role in the events leading up to the Arab Revolt against the Ottoman Turks in 1916.\n\nFarooq (also transliterated as Farouk, Farook, Faruk, Faroeq, Faruq, Farouq, Farooqui or Farooqi; Arabic: فاروق, Fārūq ) is a common Arabic given and family name found in Levant and Turkey. See also Farooq.\n\nDisambiguation of Farooq and their transliterated variants were also adopted by Sunni Islam converts from Arab-Mongol empires as a name to pay respect to Umar Bin Khattab and took up the name as an honorific title.\n\nIn Saudi Arabia, the children of Umar ibn al-Khattāb are known as El-Umari or Al-Omery. However the Farooquis of South Asia, who went back to Saudi Arabia retained the family name Al-Farooqui or Al-Farouki.\n\nQuite a few generations of Farooqis and their variants live in USA,UK and Canada due to either migration of heavy STEM related professions. See also ancestry in UK,USA and Canada..\n\nA 1939 book titled \"Al-Farooq\" is a major publication of the Sunni literature which partly listed Umar bin Khattab's genealogy. By extensive study of the subject, the author Nomani collected and collated facts which were lying buried in unpublished manuscripts in great libraries of Istanbul, Beirut, Alexandria, Paris, Berlin and London. The popularity of the book resulted in several editions in a very short period. The book was translated in English by Maulana Zafar Ali Khan and was titled, \"Al Farooq: The Life of Omar The Great (Second Caliph of Islam).\"\n\nAdham, the father of Ibrahim Bin Adham and the great grandson of Umar ibn al-Khattāb, was a great travel as narrated in the papers read in the conference on \"Balad As-Shaam\". He travelled all the way up to Balkh where he married the only daughter of the King, and his son Ibrahim became the King of Balkh. His descendants got uprooted after the attack by Mongols, and most moved to the area which is now the modern day Punjab as a part of the Moghul Empire. Significant descendants of these Farooqis can be found in Afghanitsan, Pakistan and India.\nIn the later days of the Moghul Empire, it had crippled and a general named Asif Jah decided to move South with his friends and form his own kingdom named State of Hyderabad. Among his friends and soldiers included Farooqies and their transliterated variants who became preachers and judges. Some took their family title \"Qazi\" as their family name.\n\nThe name \"Farooqi\" or \"Farooqui\" reappeared from time to time as the Nizam family grew too large, as Farooqui was more or less of a title of reference (to Umar ibn al-Khattāb) rather than a Family name until the mid 19th century. They're official residence was Chowmahalla Palace. It later grew to Falaknuma Palace, Bashir Bagh Palace, etc., under the Jah title.\nFarooqi Dynasty was formed by Abdul Malik Ahmad, the son of minister Khan-i-Jahan Farooqi of Delhi Sultanate. He became a general under Feroz Shah Tugluq and then founded Khandesh (Land of Khan) to become an independent ruler. Khandesh later became a province of Moghul Empire under Akbar.\n\nAfter the establishment of State of Hyderabad, many Farooquis took up the job of judges, ombudsmen, and other law professions. As per the caste systems which recognized families by profession instead of ancestry, their family name became Qazi, along with Sayyids and Siddiquis etc. However these families continued to identify themselves are Farooqis.\n\nFarooq is used in South East Asia as an honorific title to in Sunni Islam religious converts from Hinduism and other religions in regions of the Indian Subcontinent and are not related to the ancestry of Umar Bin Khattab.\n\nDue to the 1000 years of Islamic empires such as the Moghul empire rule and other Islamic empires over Indian subcontinent, a large population of Hindus converted and adopted the title of Farooqis and their variants in South East Asia notably India, Pakistan and Afghanistan.\n\nThey are also honorific titles and also known as 'Shaikhs of South Asia' that are converts from Hinduism and are not related to the ancestry of the Quraysh tribe.\n\nThese are Farooqis and their variants that are not part of Sunni Islam.\n\nZoroastrians of Iranian origin found in Indian regions of Maharashtra,Gujarat and Pune. A significant amount of Farooqis also exist in the state of Maharashtra,Gujarat,Pune which are part of the Parsee community, and are Zorastrians that fled from the Shah rule to avoid persecution from Muslim rule.These are Indo-Persians and are a tiny and significant but well respected minority in India. See also Parsi.\n\nShia Muslims found in Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Pakistan, and Indian regions. Quite a few Bohras live in Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Pakistan and Indian regions of Maharashtra,Gujarat and Pune that identify with Farooqis as respect to Umar Bin Khattab and his name Farooq. They are also part of the Ismaili community. See also Suleimani Bohra.\n\n\n\nGenealogy Umar Bin Khattab\n"}
{"id": "11461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11461", "title": "Francis Crick", "text": "Francis Crick\n\nFrancis Harry Compton Crick (8 June 1916 – 28 July 2004) was a British molecular biologist, biophysicist, and neuroscientist, most noted for being a co-discoverer of the structure of the DNA molecule in 1953 with Rosalind Franklin and James Watson. Together with Watson and Maurice Wilkins, he was jointly awarded the 1962 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine \"for their discoveries concerning the molecular structure of nucleic acids and its significance for information transfer in living material\". The results were based partly on fundamental studies done by Rosalind Franklin, Raymond Gosling and Wilkins.\n\nCrick was an important theoretical molecular biologist and played a crucial role in research related to revealing the helical structure of DNA. He is widely known for the use of the term \"central dogma\" to summarize the idea that once information is transferred from nucleic acids (DNA or RNA) to proteins, it cannot flow back to nucleic acids. In other words, the final step in the flow of information from nucleic acids to proteins is irreversible.\n\nDuring the remainder of his career, he held the post of J.W. Kieckhefer Distinguished Research Professor at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in La Jolla, California. His later research centered on theoretical neurobiology and attempts to advance the scientific study of human consciousness. He remained in this post until his death; \"he was editing a manuscript on his death bed, a scientist until the bitter end\" according to Christof Koch.\n\nCrick was the first son of Harry Crick (1887–1948) and Annie Elizabeth Crick (née Wilkins; 1879–1955). He was born and raised in Weston Favell, then a small village near the English town of Northampton, in which Crick's father and uncle ran the family's boot and shoe factory. His grandfather, Walter Drawbridge Crick (1857–1903), an amateur naturalist, wrote a survey of local foraminifera (single-celled protists with shells), corresponded with Charles Darwin, and had two gastropods (snails or slugs) named after him.\n\nAt an early age, Francis was attracted to science and what he could learn about it from books. As a child, he was taken to church by his parents. But by about age 12, he said he did not want to go anymore, as he preferred a scientific search for answers over religious belief.\n\nWalter Crick, his uncle, lived in a small house on the south side of Abington Avenue; he had a shed at the bottom of his little garden where he taught Crick to blow glass, do chemical experiments and to make photographic prints. When he was eight or nine he transferred to the most junior form of the Northampton Grammar School, on the Billing Road. This was about from his home so he could walk there and back, by Park Avenue South and Abington Park Crescent, but he more often went by bus or, later, by bicycle. The teacher – a Miss Holding – was an inspired teacher and made everything interesting. The teaching in the higher forms was satisfactory, but not as stimulating. After the age of 14, he was educated at Mill Hill School in London (on scholarship), where he studied mathematics, physics, and chemistry with his best friend John Shilston. He shared the Walter Knox Prize for Chemistry on Mill Hill School's Foundation Day, Friday, 7 July 1933. He declared that his success was inspired by the quality of teaching he received whilst a pupil at Mill Hill.\n\nAt the age of 21, Crick earned a Bachelor of Science degree in physics from University College, London. Crick had failed to gain a place at a Cambridge college, probably through failing their requirement for Latin. Crick began his PhD at UCL but was interrupted by World War II. He later became a PhD student and Honorary Fellow of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge and mainly worked at the Cavendish Laboratory and the Medical Research Council (MRC) Laboratory of Molecular Biology in Cambridge. He was also an Honorary Fellow of Churchill College, Cambridge and of University College, London.\n\nCrick began a Ph.D. research project on measuring the viscosity of water at high temperatures (which he later described as \"the dullest problem imaginable\") in the laboratory of physicist Edward Neville da Costa Andrade at University College London, but with the outbreak of World War II (in particular, an incident during the Battle of Britain when a bomb fell through the roof of the laboratory and destroyed his experimental apparatus), Crick was deflected from a possible career in physics. During his second year as a PhD student, however, he was awarded the Carey Foster Research Prize, a great honour. He did postdoctoral work at the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn.\n\nDuring World War II, he worked for the Admiralty Research Laboratory, from which emerged a group of many notable scientists, including David Bates, Robert Boyd, George Deacon, John Gunn, Harrie Massey, and Nevill Mott; he worked on the design of magnetic and acoustic mines, and was instrumental in designing a new mine that was effective against German minesweepers.\n\nIn 1947, aged 31, Crick began studying biology and became part of an important migration of physical scientists into biology research. This migration was made possible by the newly won influence of physicists such as Sir John Randall, who had helped win the war with inventions such as radar. Crick had to adjust from the \"elegance and deep simplicity\" of physics to the \"elaborate chemical mechanisms that natural selection had evolved over billions of years.\" He described this transition as, \"almost as if one had to be born again.\" According to Crick, the experience of learning physics had taught him something important—hubris—and the conviction that since physics was already a success, great advances should also be possible in other sciences such as biology. Crick felt that this attitude encouraged him to be more daring than typical biologists who tended to concern themselves with the daunting problems of biology and not the past successes of physics.\n\nFor the better part of two years, Crick worked on the physical properties of cytoplasm at Cambridge's Strangeways Research Laboratory, headed by Honor Bridget Fell, with a Medical Research Council studentship, until he joined Max Perutz and John Kendrew at the Cavendish Laboratory. The Cavendish Laboratory at Cambridge was under the general direction of Sir Lawrence Bragg, who had won the Nobel Prize in 1915 at the age of 25. Bragg was influential in the effort to beat a leading American chemist, Linus Pauling, to the discovery of DNA's structure (after having been pipped at the post by Pauling's success in determining the alpha helix structure of proteins). At the same time Bragg's Cavendish Laboratory was also effectively competing with King's College London, whose Biophysics department was under the direction of Randall. (Randall had refused Crick's application to work at King's College.) Francis Crick and Maurice Wilkins of King's College were personal friends, which influenced subsequent scientific events as much as the close friendship between Crick and James Watson. Crick and Wilkins first met at King's College and not, as erroneously recorded by two authors, at the Admiralty during World War II.\n\nCrick married twice, fathered three children and was the grandfather of six grandchildren; his brother Anthony (born in 1918) predeceased him in 1966.\n\nSpouses:\n\nChildren:\n\nGrandchildren\n\n\nCrick died of colon cancer on the morning of 28 July 2004 at the University of California, San Diego (UCSD) Thornton Hospital in La Jolla; he was cremated and his ashes were scattered into the Pacific Ocean. A public memorial was held on 27 September 2004 at the Salk Institute, La Jolla, near San Diego, California; guest speakers included James Watson, Sydney Brenner, Alex Rich, Seymour Benzer, Aaron Klug, Christof Koch, Pat Churchland, Vilayanur Ramachandran, Tomaso Poggio, Leslie Orgel, Terry Sejnowski, his son Michael Crick, and his youngest daughter Jacqueline Nichols. A private memorial for family and colleagues was held on 3 August 2004.\n\nCrick was interested in two fundamental unsolved problems of biology: how molecules make the transition from the non-living to the living, and how the brain makes a conscious mind. He realized that his background made him more qualified for research on the first topic and the field of biophysics. It was at this time of Crick's transition from physics to biology that he was influenced by both Linus Pauling and Erwin Schrödinger. It was clear in theory that covalent bonds in biological molecules could provide the structural stability needed to hold genetic information in cells. It only remained as an exercise of experimental biology to discover exactly which molecule was the genetic molecule. In Crick's view, Charles Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection, Gregor Mendel's genetics and knowledge of the molecular basis of genetics, when combined, revealed the secret of life. Crick had the very optimistic view that life would very soon be created in a test tube. However, some people (such as fellow researcher and colleague Esther Lederberg) thought that Crick was unduly optimistic \n\nIt was clear that some macromolecule such as a protein was likely to be the genetic molecule. However, it was well known that proteins are structural and functional macromolecules, some of which carry out enzymatic reactions of cells. In the 1940s, some evidence had been found pointing to another macromolecule, DNA, the other major component of chromosomes, as a candidate genetic molecule. In the 1944 Avery-MacLeod-McCarty experiment, Oswald Avery and his collaborators showed that a heritable phenotypic difference could be caused in bacteria by providing them with a particular DNA molecule.\n\nHowever, other evidence was interpreted as suggesting that DNA was structurally uninteresting and possibly just a molecular scaffold for the apparently more interesting protein molecules. Crick was in the right place, in the right frame of mind, at the right time (1949), to join Max Perutz's project at the University of Cambridge, and he began to work on the X-ray crystallography of proteins. X-ray crystallography theoretically offered the opportunity to reveal the molecular structure of large molecules like proteins and DNA, but there were serious technical problems then preventing X-ray crystallography from being applicable to such large molecules.\n\nCrick taught himself the mathematical theory of X-ray crystallography. During the period of Crick's study of X-ray diffraction, researchers in the Cambridge lab were attempting to determine the most stable helical conformation of amino acid chains in proteins (the alpha helix). Linus Pauling was the first to identify the 3.6 amino acids per helix turn ratio of the alpha helix. Crick was witness to the kinds of errors that his co-workers made in their failed attempts to make a correct molecular model of the alpha helix; these turned out to be important lessons that could be applied, in the future, to the helical structure of DNA. For example, he learned the importance of the structural rigidity that double bonds confer on molecular structures which is relevant both to peptide bonds in proteins and the structure of nucleotides in DNA.\n\nIn 1951 and 1952, together with William Cochran and Vladimir Vand, Crick assisted in the development of a mathematical theory of X-ray diffraction by a helical molecule. This theoretical result matched well with X-ray data for proteins that contain sequences of amino acids in the alpha helix conformation. Helical diffraction theory turned out to also be useful for understanding the structure of DNA.\n\nLate in 1951, Crick started working with James Watson at Cavendish Laboratory at the University of Cambridge, England. Using \"Photo 51\" (the X-ray diffraction results of Rosalind Franklin and her graduate student Raymond Gosling of King's College London, given to them by Gosling and Franklin's colleague Wilkins), Watson and Crick together developed a model for a helical structure of DNA, which they published in 1953. For this and subsequent work they were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1962 with Wilkins.\n\nWhen Watson came to Cambridge, Crick was a 35-year-old graduate student (due to his work during WWII) and Watson was only 23, but he already had a Ph.D. They shared an interest in the fundamental problem of learning how genetic information might be stored in molecular form. Watson and Crick talked endlessly about DNA and the idea that it might be possible to guess a good molecular model of its structure. A key piece of experimentally-derived information came from X-ray diffraction images that had been obtained by Wilkins, Franklin, and Gosling. In November 1951, Wilkins came to Cambridge and shared his data with Watson and Crick. Alexander Stokes (another expert in helical diffraction theory) and Wilkins (both at King's College) had reached the conclusion that X-ray diffraction data for DNA indicated that the molecule had a helical structure—but Franklin vehemently disputed this conclusion. Stimulated by their discussions with Wilkins and what Watson learned by attending a talk given by Franklin about her work on DNA, Crick and Watson produced and showed off an erroneous first model of DNA. Their hurry to produce a model of DNA structure was driven in part by the knowledge that they were competing against Linus Pauling. Given Pauling's recent success in discovering the Alpha helix, they feared that Pauling might also be the first to determine the structure of DNA.\n\nMany have speculated about what might have happened had Pauling been able to travel to Britain as planned in May 1952. As it was, his political activities caused his travel to be restricted by the United States government and he did not visit the UK until later, at which point he met none of the DNA researchers in England. At any rate he was preoccupied with proteins at the time, not DNA. Watson and Crick were not officially working on DNA. Crick was writing his Ph.D. thesis; Watson also had other work such as trying to obtain crystals of myoglobin for X-ray diffraction experiments. In 1952, Watson performed X-ray diffraction on tobacco mosaic virus and found results indicating that it had helical structure. Having failed once, Watson and Crick were now somewhat reluctant to try again and for a while they were forbidden to make further efforts to find a molecular model of DNA.\nOf great importance to the model building effort of Watson and Crick was Rosalind Franklin's understanding of basic chemistry, which indicated that the hydrophilic phosphate-containing backbones of the nucleotide chains of DNA should be positioned so as to interact with water molecules on the outside of the molecule while the hydrophobic bases should be packed into the core. Franklin shared this chemical knowledge with Watson and Crick when she pointed out to them that their first model (from 1951, with the phosphates inside) was obviously wrong.\n\nCrick described what he saw as the failure of Wilkins and Franklin to cooperate and work towards finding a molecular model of DNA as a major reason why he and Watson eventually made a second attempt to do so. They asked for, and received, permission to do so from both William Lawrence Bragg and Wilkins. In order to construct their model of DNA, Watson and Crick made use of information from unpublished X-ray diffraction images of Franklin's (shown at meetings and freely shared by Wilkins), including preliminary accounts of Franklin's results/photographs of the X-ray images that were included in a written progress report for the King's College laboratory of Sir John Randall from late 1952.\n\nIt is a matter of debate whether Watson and Crick should have had access to Franklin's results without her knowledge or permission, and before she had a chance to formally publish the results of her detailed analysis of her X-ray diffraction data which were included in the progress report. However, Watson and Crick found fault in her steadfast assertion that, according to her data, a helical structure was not the only possible shape for DNA—so they had a dilemma. In an effort to clarify this issue, Max Ferdinand Perutz later published what had been in the progress report, and suggested that nothing was in the report that Franklin herself had not said in her talk (attended by Watson) in late 1951. Further, Perutz explained that the report was to a Medical Research Council (MRC) committee that had been created in order to \"establish contact between the different groups of people working for the Council\". Randall's and Perutz's laboratories were both funded by the MRC.\n\nIt is also not clear how important Franklin's unpublished results from the progress report actually were for the model-building done by Watson and Crick. After the first crude X-ray diffraction images of DNA were collected in the 1930s, William Astbury had talked about stacks of nucleotides spaced at 3.4 angström (0.34 nanometre) intervals in DNA. A citation to Astbury's earlier X-ray diffraction work was one of only eight references in Franklin's first paper on DNA. Analysis of Astbury's published DNA results and the better X-ray diffraction images collected by Wilkins and Franklin revealed the helical nature of DNA. It was possible to predict the number of bases stacked within a single turn of the DNA helix (10 per turn; a full turn of the helix is 27 angströms [2.7 nm] in the compact A form, 34 angströms [3.4 nm] in the wetter B form). Wilkins shared this information about the B form of DNA with Crick and Watson. Crick did not see Franklin's B form X-ray images (Photo 51) until after the DNA double helix model was published.\n\nOne of the few references cited by Watson and Crick when they published their model of DNA was to a published article that included Sven Furberg's DNA model that had the bases on the inside. Thus, the Watson and Crick model was not the first \"bases in\" model to be proposed. Furberg's results had also provided the correct orientation of the DNA sugars with respect to the bases. During their model building, Crick and Watson learned that an antiparallel orientation of the two nucleotide chain backbones worked best to orient the base pairs in the centre of a double helix. Crick's access to Franklin's progress report of late 1952 is what made Crick confident that DNA was a double helix with antiparallel chains, but there were other chains of reasoning and sources of information that also led to these conclusions.\n\nAs a result of leaving King's College for Birkbeck College, Franklin was asked by John Randall to give up her work on DNA. When it became clear to Wilkins and the supervisors of Watson and Crick that Franklin was going to the new job, and that Linus Pauling was working on the structure of DNA, they were willing to share Franklin's data with Watson and Crick, in the hope that they could find a good model of DNA before Pauling was able. Franklin's X-ray diffraction data for DNA and her systematic analysis of DNA's structural features was useful to Watson and Crick in guiding them towards a correct molecular model. The key problem for Watson and Crick, which could not be resolved by the data from King's College, was to guess how the nucleotide bases pack into the core of the DNA double helix.\nAnother key to finding the correct structure of DNA was the so-called Chargaff ratios, experimentally determined ratios of the nucleotide subunits of DNA: the amount of guanine is equal to cytosine and the amount of adenine is equal to thymine. A visit by Erwin Chargaff to England, in 1952, reinforced the salience of this important fact for Watson and Crick. The significance of these ratios for the structure of DNA were not recognized until Watson, persisting in building structural models, realized that A:T and C:G pairs are structurally similar. In particular, the length of each base pair is the same. Chargaff had also pointed out to Watson that, in the aqueous, saline environment of the cell, the predominant tautomers of the pyrimidine (C and T) bases would be the amine and keto configurations of cytosine and thymine, rather than the imino and enol forms that Crick and Watson had assumed. They consulted Jerry Donohue who confirmed the most likely structures of the nucleotide bases. The base pairs are held together by hydrogen bonds, the same non-covalent interaction that stabilize the protein α-helix. The correct structures were essential for the positioning of the hydrogen bonds. These insights led Watson to deduce the true biological relationships of the A:T and C:G pairs. After the discovery of the hydrogen bonded A:T and C:G pairs, Watson and Crick soon had their anti-parallel, double helical model of DNA, with the hydrogen bonds at the core of the helix providing a way to \"unzip\" the two complementary strands for easy replication: the last key requirement for a likely model of the genetic molecule. As important as Crick's contributions to the discovery of the double helical DNA model were, he stated that without the chance to collaborate with Watson, he would not have found the structure by himself.\n\nCrick did tentatively attempt to perform some experiments on nucleotide base pairing, but he was more of a theoretical biologist than an experimental biologist. There was another near-discovery of the base pairing rules in early 1952. Crick had started to think about interactions between the bases. He asked John Griffith to try to calculate attractive interactions between the DNA bases from chemical principles and quantum mechanics. Griffith's best guess was that A:T and G:C were attractive pairs. At that time, Crick was not aware of Chargaff's rules and he made little of Griffith's calculations, although it did start him thinking about complementary replication. Identification of the correct base-pairing rules (A-T, G-C) was achieved by Watson \"playing\" with cardboard cut-out models of the nucleotide bases, much in the manner that Linus Pauling had discovered the protein alpha helix a few years earlier. The Watson and Crick discovery of the DNA double helix structure was made possible by their willingness to combine theory, modelling and experimental results (albeit mostly done by others) to achieve their goal.\n\nThe DNA double helix structure proposed by Watson and Crick was based upon \"Watson-Crick\" bonds between the four bases most frequently found in DNA (A, C, T, G) and RNA (A, C, U, G). However, later research showed that triple-stranded, quadruple-stranded and other more complex DNA molecular structures required Hoogsteen base pairing. The entire field of synthetic biology began with work by researchers such as Erik T. Kool, in which bases other than A, C, T and G are used in a synthetic DNA. In addition to synthetic DNA there are also attempts to construct synthetic codons, synthetic endonucleases, synthetic proteins and synthetic zinc fingers. Using synthetic DNA, instead of there being 4 codons, if there are n new bases there could be as many as n codons. Research is currently being done to see if codons can be expanded to more than 3 bases. These new codons can code for new amino acids. These synthetic molecules can be used not only in medicine, but in creation of new materials.\n\nThe discovery was made on 28 February 1953; the first Watson/Crick paper appeared in \"Nature\" on 25 April 1953. Sir Lawrence Bragg, the director of the Cavendish Laboratory, where Watson and Crick worked, gave a talk at Guy's Hospital Medical School in London on Thursday 14 May 1953 which resulted in an article by Ritchie Calder in the \"News Chronicle\" of London, on Friday 15 May 1953, entitled \"Why You Are You. Nearer Secret of Life.\" The news reached readers of \"The New York Times\" the next day; Victor K. McElheny, in researching his biography, \"Watson and DNA: Making a Scientific Revolution\", found a clipping of a six-paragraph New York Times article written from London and dated 16 May 1953 with the headline \"Form of 'Life Unit' in Cell Is Scanned.\" The article ran in an early edition and was then pulled to make space for news deemed more important. (\"The New York Times\" subsequently ran a longer article on 12 June 1953). The university's undergraduate newspaper \"Varsity\" also ran its own short article on the discovery on Saturday 30 May 1953. Bragg's original announcement of the discovery at a Solvay conference on proteins in Belgium on 8 April 1953 went unreported by the British press.\n\nIn a seven-page, handwritten letter to his son at a British boarding school on 19 March 1953 Crick explained his discovery, beginning the letter \"My Dear Michael, Jim Watson and I have probably made a most important discovery...\". The letter was put up for auction at Christie's New York on 10 April 2013 with an estimate of $1 to $2 million, eventually selling for $6,059,750, the largest amount ever paid for a letter at auction.\n\nSydney Brenner, Jack Dunitz, Dorothy Hodgkin, Leslie Orgel, and Beryl M. Oughton, were some of the first people in April 1953 to see the model of the structure of DNA, constructed by Crick and Watson; at the time they were working at Oxford University's Chemistry Department. All were impressed by the new DNA model, especially Brenner who subsequently worked with Crick at Cambridge in the Cavendish Laboratory and the new Laboratory of Molecular Biology. According to the late Dr. Beryl Oughton, later Rimmer, they all travelled together in two cars once Dorothy Hodgkin announced to them that they were off to Cambridge to see the model of the structure of DNA. Orgel also later worked with Crick at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies.\n\nSoon after Crick's death, there have been allegations about him having used LSD when he came to the idea of the helix structure of the DNA. While he almost certainly did use LSD, it is unlikely that he was doing that as early as 1953.\n\nIn 1954, at the age of 37, Crick completed his Ph.D. thesis: \"X-Ray Diffraction: Polypeptides and Proteins\" and received his degree. Crick then worked in the laboratory of David Harker at Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute, where he continued to develop his skills in the analysis of X-ray diffraction data for proteins, working primarily on ribonuclease and the mechanisms of protein synthesis. David Harker, the American X-ray crystallographer, was described as \"the John Wayne of crystallography\" by Vittorio Luzzati, a crystallographer at the Centre for Molecular Genetics in Gif-sur-Yvette near Paris, who had worked with Rosalind Franklin.\n\nAfter the discovery of the double helix model of DNA, Crick's interests quickly turned to the biological implications of the structure. In 1953, Watson and Crick published another article in \"Nature\" which stated: \"it therefore seems likely that the precise sequence of the bases is the code that carries the genetical information\".\n\nIn 1956, Crick and Watson speculated on the structure of small viruses. They suggested that spherical viruses such as Tomato bushy stunt virus had icosahedral symmetry and were made from 60 identical subunits.\n\nAfter his short time in New York, Crick returned to Cambridge where he worked until 1976, at which time he moved to California. Crick engaged in several X-ray diffraction collaborations such as one with Alexander Rich on the structure of collagen. However, Crick was quickly drifting away from continued work related to his expertise in the interpretation of X-ray diffraction patterns of proteins.\n\nGeorge Gamow established a group of scientists interested in the role of RNA as an intermediary between DNA as the genetic storage molecule in the nucleus of cells and the synthesis of proteins in the cytoplasm (the RNA Tie Club). It was clear to Crick that there had to be a code by which a short sequence of nucleotides would specify a particular amino acid in a newly synthesized protein. In 1956, Crick wrote an informal paper about the genetic coding problem for the small group of scientists in Gamow's RNA group. In this article, Crick reviewed the evidence supporting the idea that there was a common set of about 20 amino acids used to synthesize proteins. Crick proposed that there was a corresponding set of small \"adaptor molecules\" that would hydrogen bond to short sequences of a nucleic acid, and also link to one of the amino acids. He also explored the many theoretical possibilities by which short nucleic acid sequences might code for the 20 amino acids.\nDuring the mid-to-late 1950s Crick was very much intellectually engaged in sorting out the mystery of how proteins are synthesized. By 1958, Crick's thinking had matured and he could list in an orderly way all of the key features of the protein synthesis process:\n\nThe adaptor molecules were eventually shown to be tRNAs and the catalytic \"ribonucleic-protein complexes\" became known as ribosomes. An important step was later realization (in 1960) that the messenger RNA was not the same as the ribosomal RNA. None of this, however, answered the fundamental theoretical question of the exact nature of the genetic code. In his 1958 article, Crick speculated, as had others, that a triplet of nucleotides could code for an amino acid. Such a code might be \"degenerate\", with 4×4×4=64 possible triplets of the four nucleotide subunits while there were only 20 amino acids. Some amino acids might have multiple triplet codes. Crick also explored other codes in which, for various reasons, only some of the triplets were used, \"magically\" producing just the 20 needed combinations. Experimental results were needed; theory alone could not decide the nature of the code. Crick also used the term \"central dogma\" to summarize an idea that implies that genetic information flow between macromolecules would be essentially one-way:\n\nSome critics thought that by using the word \"dogma\", Crick was implying that this was a rule that could not be questioned, but all he really meant was that it was a compelling idea without much solid evidence to support it. In his thinking about the biological processes linking DNA genes to proteins, Crick made explicit the distinction between the materials involved, the energy required, and the information flow. Crick was focused on this third component (information) and it became the organizing principle of what became known as molecular biology. Crick had by this time become a highly influential theoretical molecular biologist.\n\nProof that the genetic code is a degenerate triplet code finally came from genetics experiments, some of which were performed by Crick. The details of the code came mostly from work by Marshall Nirenberg and others who synthesized synthetic RNA molecules and used them as templates for \"in vitro\" protein synthesis. Nirenberg first announced his results to a small audience in Moscow at a 1961 conference. Crick's reaction was to invite Nirenberg to deliver his talk to a larger audience.\n\nAn enduring controversy has been generated by Watson and Crick's use of DNA X-ray diffraction data collected by Franklin and Wilkins. The controversy arose from the fact that some of Franklin's unpublished data were used without her knowledge or consent by Watson and Crick in their construction of the double helix model of DNA. Of the four DNA researchers, only Franklin had a degree in chemistry; Wilkins and Crick had backgrounds in physics, Watson in biology.\n\nPrior to publication of the double helix structure, Watson and Crick had little direct interaction with Franklin herself. They were, however, aware of her work, more aware than she herself realized. Watson was present at a lecture, given in November 1951, where Franklin presented the two forms of the molecule, type A and type B, and discussed the position of the phosphate units on the external part of the molecule. She also specified the amount of water to be found in the molecule in accordance with other parts of it, data that have considerable importance in terms of the stability of the molecule. She was the first to discover and formulate these facts, which in fact constituted the basis for all later attempts to build a model of the molecule. Before this, both Linus Pauling and Watson and Crick had generated erroneous models with the chains inside and the bases pointing outwards. Her identification of the space group for DNA crystals revealed to Crick that the two DNA strands were antiparallel.\n\nIn January 1953, Watson was shown an X-ray photograph of B-DNA (called photograph 51), by Wilkins. Wilkins had been given photograph 51 by Rosalind Franklin's Ph.D. student Raymond Gosling. Wilkins and Gosling had worked together in the Medical Research Council's (MRC) Biophysics Unit before director John Randall appointed Franklin to take over both DNA diffraction work and guidance of Gosling's thesis. It appears that Randall did not communicate effectively with them about Franklin's appointment, contributing to confusion and friction between Wilkins and Franklin.\n\nIn the middle of February 1953, Crick's thesis advisor, Max Perutz, gave Crick a copy of a report written for a Medical Research Council biophysics committee visit to King's in December 1952, containing data from the King's group, including some of Franklin's crystallographic calculations.\n\nFranklin was unaware that photograph 51 and other information had been shared with Crick and Watson. She wrote a series of three draft manuscripts, two of which included a double helical DNA backbone. Her two A form manuscripts reached Acta Crystallographica in Copenhagen on 6 March 1953, one day before Crick and Watson had completed their model.\n\nThe X-ray diffraction images collected by Gosling and Franklin provided the best evidence for the helical nature of DNA. Franklin's experimental work thus proved crucial in Watson and Crick's discovery. Her experimental results provided estimates of the water content of DNA crystals, and these results were most consistent with the three sugar-phosphate backbones being on the outside of the molecule. Franklin's X-Ray photograph showed that the backbones had to be on the outside. Although she at first insisted vehemently that her data did not force one to conclude that DNA has a helical structure, in the drafts she submitted in 1953 she argues for a double helical DNA backbone. Her identification of the space group for DNA crystals revealed to Crick that the DNA strands were antiparallel, which helped Watson and Crick decide to look for DNA models with two antiparallel polynucleotide strands.\n\nIn summary, Watson and Crick had three sources for Franklin's unpublished data: 1) her 1951 seminar, attended by Watson, 2) discussions with Wilkins, who worked in the same laboratory with Franklin, 3) a research progress report that was intended to promote coordination of Medical Research Council-supported laboratories. Watson, Crick, Wilkins and Franklin all worked in MRC laboratories.\n\nCrick and Watson felt that they had benefited from collaborating with Wilkins. They offered him a co-authorship on the article that first described the double helix structure of DNA. Wilkins turned down the offer, a fact that may have led to the terse character of the acknowledgement of experimental work done at King's College in the eventual published paper. Rather than make any of the DNA researchers at King's College co-authors on the Watson and Crick double helix article, the solution that was arrived at was to publish two additional papers from King's College along with the helix paper. Brenda Maddox suggests that because of the importance of her experimental results in Watson and Crick's model building and theoretical analysis, Franklin should have had her name on the original Watson and Crick paper in \"Nature\". Franklin and Gosling submitted their own joint 'second' paper to \"Nature\" at the same time as Wilkins, Stokes, and Wilson submitted theirs (i.e. the 'third' paper on DNA).\n\nWatson's portrayal of Franklin in \"The Double Helix\" (written after Franklin's death when libel laws did not apply anymore) was negative and gave the appearance that she was Wilkins' assistant and was unable to interpret her own DNA data.\n\nThe X-ray diffraction images collected by Franklin provided the best evidence for the helical nature of DNA. While Franklin's experimental work proved important to Crick and Watson's development of a correct model, she herself could not realize it at the time. When she left King's College, Director Sir John Randall insisted that all DNA work belonged exclusively to King's and ordered Franklin to not even think about it. Franklin subsequently did superb work in J. D. Bernal's Lab at Birkbeck College with the tobacco mosaic virus extending ideas on helical construction.\n\nCrick was often described as very talkative, with Watson – in \"The Double Helix\" – implying lack of modesty. His personality combined with his scientific accomplishments produced many opportunities for Crick to stimulate reactions from others, both inside and outside the scientific world, which was the centre of his intellectual and professional life. Crick spoke rapidly, and rather loudly, and had an infectious and reverberating laugh, and a lively sense of humour. One colleague from the Salk Institute described him as \"a brainstorming intellectual powerhouse with a mischievous smile... Francis was never mean-spirited, just incisive. He detected microscopic flaws in logic. In a room full of smart scientists, Francis continually reearned his position as the heavyweight champ.\"\n\nCrick occasionally expressed his views on eugenics, usually in private letters. For example, Crick advocated a form of positive eugenics in which wealthy parents would be encouraged to have more children. He once remarked, \"In the long run, it is unavoidable that society will begin to worry about the character of the next generation... It is not a subject at the moment which we can tackle easily because people have so many religious beliefs and until we have a more uniform view of ourselves I think it would be risky to try and do anything in the way of eugenics... I would be astonished if, in the next 100 or 200 years, society did not come round to the view that they would have to try to improve the next generation in some extent or one way or another.\"\n\nCrick was a firm critic of Young Earth creationism. In the 1987 United States Supreme Court case \"Edwards v. Aguillard\", Crick joined a group of other Nobel laureates who advised, \"'Creation-science' simply has no place in the public-school science classroom.\" Crick was also an advocate for the establishment of Darwin Day as a British national holiday.\n\nCrick referred to himself as a humanist, which he defined as the belief \"that human problems can and must be faced in terms of human moral and intellectual resources without invoking supernatural authority.\" He publicly called for humanism to replace religion as a guiding force for humanity, writing:\n\nThe human dilemma is hardly new. We find ourselves through no wish of our own on this slowly revolving planet in an obscure corner of a vast universe. Our questioning intelligence will not let us live in cow-like content with our lot. We have a deep need to know why we are here. What is the world made of? More important, what are we made of? In the past religion answered these questions, often in considerable detail. Now we know that almost all these answers are highly likely to be nonsense, having sprung from man's ignorance and his enormous capacity for self-deception... The simple fables of the religions of the world have come to seem like tales told to children. Even understood symbolically they are often perverse, if not rather unpleasant... Humanists, then, live in a mysterious, exciting and intellectually expanding world, which, once glimpsed, makes the old worlds of the religions seem fake-cosy and stale... \n\nCrick was especially critical of Christianity:\n\nI do not respect Christian beliefs. I think they are ridiculous. If we could get rid of them we could more easily get down to the serious problem of trying to find out what the world is all about.\n\nCrick once joked, \"Christianity may be OK between consenting adults in private but should not be taught to young children.\"\n\nIn his book \"Of Molecules and Men\", Crick expressed his views on the relationship between science and religion. After suggesting that it would become possible for a computer to be programmed so as to have a soul, he wondered: at what point during biological evolution did the first organism have a soul? At what moment does a baby get a soul? Crick stated his view that the idea of a non-material soul that could enter a body and then persist after death is just that, an imagined idea. For Crick, the mind is a product of physical brain activity and the brain had evolved by natural means over millions of years. He felt that it was important that evolution by natural selection be taught in schools and that it was regrettable that English schools had compulsory religious instruction. He also considered that a new scientific world view was rapidly being established, and predicted that once the detailed workings of the brain were eventually revealed, erroneous Christian concepts about the nature of humans and the world would no longer be tenable; traditional conceptions of the \"soul\" would be replaced by a new understanding of the physical basis of mind. He was sceptical of organized religion, referring to himself as a sceptic and an agnostic with \"a strong inclination towards atheism\".\n\nIn 1960, Crick accepted an honorary fellowship at Churchill College, Cambridge, one factor being that the new college did not have a chapel. Some time later a large donation was made to establish a chapel and the College Council decided to accept it. Crick resigned his fellowship in protest.\n\nIn October 1969 Crick participated in a celebration of the 100th year of the journal \"Nature\" in which he attempted to make some predictions about what the next 30 years would hold for molecular biology. His speculations were later published in \"Nature\". Near the end of the article, Crick briefly mentioned the search for life on other planets, but he held little hope that extraterrestrial life would be found by the year 2000. He also discussed what he described as a possible new direction for research, what he called \"biochemical theology\". Crick wrote \"so many people pray that one finds it hard to believe that they do not get some satisfaction from it\".\n\nCrick suggested that it might be possible to find chemical changes in the brain that were molecular correlates of the act of prayer. He speculated that there might be a detectable change in the level of some neurotransmitter or neurohormone when people pray. He might have been imagining substances such as dopamine that are released by the brain under certain conditions and produce rewarding sensations. Crick's suggestion that there might someday be a new science of \"biochemical theology\" seems to have been realized under an alternative name: there is now the new field of neurotheology. Crick's view of the relationship between science and religion continued to play a role in his work as he made the transition from molecular biology research into theoretical neuroscience.\n\nCrick asked in 1998 \"and if some of the Bible is manifestly wrong, why should any of the rest of it be accepted automatically? ... And what would be more important than to find our true place in the universe by removing one by one these unfortunate vestiges of earlier beliefs?\"\n\nIn 2003 he was one of 22 Nobel laureates who signed the \"Humanist Manifesto\".\n\nDuring the 1960s, Crick became concerned with the origins of the genetic code. In 1966, Crick took the place of Leslie Orgel at a meeting where Orgel was to talk about the origin of life. Crick speculated about possible stages by which an initially simple code with a few amino acid types might have evolved into the more complex code used by existing organisms. At that time, everyone thought of proteins as the only kind of enzymes, and ribozymes had not yet been found. Many molecular biologists were puzzled by the problem of the origin of a protein replicating system that is as complex as that which exists in organisms currently inhabiting Earth. In the early 1970s, Crick and Orgel further speculated about the possibility that the production of living systems from molecules may have been a very rare event in the universe, but once it had developed it could be spread by intelligent life forms using space travel technology, a process they called \"directed panspermia\". In a retrospective article, Crick and Orgel noted that they had been overly pessimistic about the chances of abiogenesis on Earth when they had assumed that some kind of self-replicating protein system was the molecular origin of life.\n\nIn 1976 Crick addressed the origin of protein synthesis in a paper with Sydney Brenner, Aaron Klug, and George Pieczenik. In this paper, they speculate that code constraints on nucleotide sequences allow protein synthesis without the need for a ribosome. It, however, requires a five base binding between the mRNA and tRNA with a flip of the anti-codon creating a triplet coding, even though it is a five-base physical interaction. Thomas H. Jukes pointed out that the code constraints on the mRNA sequence required for this translation mechanism is still preserved.\n\nCrick's period at Cambridge was the pinnacle of his long scientific career, but he left Cambridge in 1977 after 30 years, having been offered (and having refused) the Mastership of Gonville and Caius. James Watson claimed at a Cambridge conference marking the 50th anniversary of the discovery of the structure of DNA in 2003:\n\nNow perhaps it's a pretty well kept secret that one of the most uninspiring acts of the University of Cambridge over this past century was to turn down Francis Crick when he applied to be the Professor of Genetics, in 1958. Now there may have been a series of arguments, which led them to reject Francis. It was really saying, don't push us to the frontier.\n\nThe apparently \"pretty well kept secret\" had already been recorded in Soraya De Chadarevian's \"Designs For Life: Molecular Biology After World War II\", published by Cambridge University Press in 2002. His major contribution to molecular biology in Cambridge is well documented in \"The History of the University of Cambridge: Volume 4 (1870 to 1990)\", which was published by CUP in 1992.\n\nAccording to the University of Cambridge's genetics department official website, the electors of the professorship could not reach consensus, prompting the intervention of then University Vice-Chancellor Lord Adrian. Lord Adrian first offered the professorship to a compromise candidate, Guido Pontecorvo, who refused, and is said to have offered it then to Crick, who also refused.\n\nIn 1976, Crick took a sabbatical year at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in La Jolla, California. Crick had been a nonresident fellow of the Institute since 1960. Crick wrote, \"I felt at home in Southern California.\" After the sabbatical, Crick left Cambridge in order to continue working at the Salk Institute. He was also an adjunct professor at the University of California, San Diego. He taught himself neuroanatomy and studied many other areas of neuroscience research. It took him several years to disengage from molecular biology because exciting discoveries continued to be made, including the discovery of alternative splicing and the discovery of restriction enzymes, which helped make possible genetic engineering. Eventually, in the 1980s, Crick was able to devote his full attention to his other interest, consciousness. His autobiographical book, \"\", includes a description of why he left molecular biology and switched to neuroscience.\n\nUpon taking up work in theoretical neuroscience, Crick was struck by several things:\n\nCrick hoped he might aid progress in neuroscience by promoting constructive interactions between specialists from the many different subdisciplines concerned with consciousness. He even collaborated with neurophilosophers such as Patricia Churchland. In 1983, as a result of their studies of computer models of neural networks, Crick and Mitchison proposed that the function of REM sleep is to remove certain modes of interactions in networks of cells in the mammalian cerebral cortex; they called this hypothetical process 'reverse learning' or 'unlearning'. In the final phase of his career, Crick established a collaboration with Christof Koch that lead to publication of a series of articles on consciousness during the period spanning from 1990 to 2005. Crick made the strategic decision to focus his theoretical investigation of consciousness on how the brain generates visual awareness within a few hundred milliseconds of viewing a scene. Crick and Koch proposed that consciousness seems so mysterious because it involves very short-term memory processes that are as yet poorly understood. Crick also published a book describing how neurobiology had reached a mature enough stage so that consciousness could be the subject of a unified effort to study it at the molecular, cellular and behavioural levels. Crick's book \"The Astonishing Hypothesis\" made the argument that neuroscience now had the tools required to begin a scientific study of how brains produce conscious experiences. Crick was sceptical about the value of computational models of mental function that are not based on details about brain structure and function.\n\nIn addition to his third share of the 1962 Nobel prize for Physiology or Medicine, he received many awards and honours, including the Royal and Copley medals of the Royal Society (1972 and 1975), and also the Order of Merit (on 27 November 1991); he refused an offer of a CBE in 1963, but was often referred to in error as 'Sir Francis Crick' and even on occasions as 'Lord Crick.' He was elected an EMBO Member in 1964.\n\nThe award of Nobel prizes to John Kendrew and Max Perutz, and to Crick, Watson, and Wilkins was satirised in a short sketch in the BBC TV programme \"That Was The Week That Was\" with the Nobel Prizes being referred to as 'The Alfred Nobel Peace Pools.'\n\nThe Francis Crick Medal and Lecture was established in 2003 following an endowment by his former colleague, Sydney Brenner, joint winner of the 2002 Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine. The lecture is delivered annually in any field of biological sciences, with preference given to the areas in which Francis Crick himself worked. Importantly, the lectureship is aimed at younger scientists, ideally under 40, or whose career progression corresponds to this age. , Crick lectures have been delivered by Julie Ahringer, Dario Alessi, Ewan Birney, Simon Boulton, Jason Chin, Simon Fisher, Matthew Hurles, Gilean McVean, Duncan Odom, Geraint Rees, Sarah Teichmann and Daniel Wolpert.\n\nThe Francis Crick Institute is a £660 million biomedical research centre located in north London, United Kingdom. The Francis Crick Institute is a partnership between Cancer Research UK, Imperial College London, King's College London, the Medical Research Council, University College London (UCL) and the Wellcome Trust. Completed in 2016, it is the largest centre for biomedical research and innovation in Europe.\n\nThe University of Cambridge Graduate School of Biological, Medical and Veterinary Sciences hosts The Francis Crick Graduate Lectures. The first two lectures were by John Gurdon and Tim Hunt.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3118280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3118280", "title": "Frank Fools Crow", "text": "Frank Fools Crow\n\nFrank Fools Crow (circa 1890 – 1989) was an Oglala Lakota civic and religious leader. 'Grandfather', or 'Grandpa Frank' as he was often called, was a nephew of Black Elk who worked to preserve Lakota traditions, including the Sun Dance and yuwipi ceremonies. He supported Lakota sovereignty and treaty rights, and was a leader of the traditional faction during the armed standoff at Wounded Knee in 1973. With writer Thomas E. Mails, he produced two books about his life and work, \"Fools Crow\" in 1979, and \"Fools Crow: Wisdom and Power\" in 1990.\n\nFools Crow was born near Porcupine Creek on Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota on either June 24 or 27 between 1890 and 1892. His father, Fools Crow, who was also called Eagle Bear, was the Porcupine District leader. His mother was Spoon Hunter, who died four days after giving birth to him. She was the daughter of Porcupine Tail, for whom the community was named. His paternal grandfather, Knife Chief, fought with warriors who defeated Custer at the Battle of Little Big Horn, and his great–grandfather, Holds the Eagle, was a medicine man and holy man, or \"Wičháša Wakȟáŋ\". Raised in the traditional way by his father, aunt, and stepmother Emily Big Road, he did not attend \"the white man's school\" as his father did not approve. This is why he did not speak fluent English. As a young man he traveled around the United States with the Buffalo Bill Cody's \"Buffalo Bill's Wild West\" show. He spent much of his life serving his people as a medicine man, healer, and teacher. \n\nHis first wife, Fannie Afraid of Hawk, died in 1954. His second wife, Kate, died in October 1988. Fools Crow died on November 27, 1989 near Kyle, SD. He is believed to have been 99 years old. \n\nOn February 28, 1973, members of the American Indian Movement, with their allies and supporters, including Fools Crow, seized and occupied the village of Wounded Knee. It was here, in 1890, that the followers of Spotted Elk, another, earlier traditional leader, had been massacred by the United States Army's 7th Cavalry Regiment. Two weeks before that, Sitting Bull himself had been killed, by police acting at the behest of these new rulers. Thus had begun the relentless suppression of the Lakota nation: their institutions, the religion, and even the language. Each decade since that \"time of great melancholy\", when hopes for sovereignty had \"died in bloody snow\", brought renewed demands for more Lakota land, always in violation of treaty agreements.\n\nDick Wilson had become chairman of the Pine Ridge Reservation in 1972. A heavy–drinking bootlegger known for corruption, he favored giving up more Lakota land, even the \"Pahá Sápa\" itself. He soon used federal government funds to create his own private vigilante \"goon squad\", with which to terrorize his adversaries. Those who opposed Wilson and his regime formed the \"Oglala Sioux Civil Rights Organization\", led by Pedro Bissonette, and worked to impeach him. One petition to impeach Wilson contained more signatures than the number of people who had originally voted for him. Wilson postponed impeachment hearings which were scheduled for February 14. Immediately thereafter, federal forces moved into the area, including a counter–insurgency \"Special Operations Group\", which set up and manned sand–bagged machine gun positions at the BIA building. On February 23, thus reinforced and without a proper tribal council quorum, Wilson was \"exonerated\" and quickly banned \"all public meetings and demonstrations\" on the reservation.\n\nThe night that the occupation took place, the leaders of AIM met with the traditional Oglala elders and leaders.\n\nAs senior elder, Fools Crow spoke to the young leaders in his native Lakota language (he never spoke English in public) and said to them, \"Go ahead and do it, go to Wounded Knee. You can't get in the BIA office and the tribal office, so take your brothers from the American Indian Movement and go to Wounded Knee and make your stand there.\"\n\nOn the list of demands presented to the Justice Department, Fools Crow was listed along with other chiefs and medicine men as supporters of the movement. After the occupiers declared themselves to be the \"Independent Oglala Nation\", Fools Crow traveled with Matthew King, his interpreter, and Russell Means to the United Nations to make a speech. Though no official transcript of this speech remains, there is no doubt to its significance.\n\nThe occupation lasted for 71 days, until an agreement was reached between federal officials and a Lakota delegation, which included Fools Crow. Hank Adams, the personal representative of the President, arrived with an agreement to the proposal that the chiefs had sent to the White House on May 3. Adams met Fools Crow and a hundred others near a fence around the property. Adams handed a letter through a barbed–wire fence to Fools Crow, who was wearing the traditional attire of buckskin and a headdress. The letter appealed for the occupation of the village to come to an end. Fools Crow and the other leaders accepted the proposal, which stated that the White House would send representatives to Pine Ridge to discuss a treaty in the third week of May and would \"get tough\" on Dick Wilson, the unscrupulous chairman of the reservation. Fools Crow and the other chiefs delivered the letter to the AIM leaders and told them that he believed that it was time to end it.\n\nAfter the murder of Frank Clearwater at Wounded Knee, and because the U.S. government would not allow his body to be buried there, his wife agreed to bury him on Leonard Crow Dog’s property on the Rosebud Indian Reservation, and had the wake at Fools Crow’s house, where the body was placed in a tipi and covered with a blanket for mourners to come to pay their respect.\n\nIn an article in the \"New York Times\" on May 8, 1973, the negotiations were said to have taken place at Fools Crow's house around the third week of May. In an interview, Dick Wilson said, \"My people know that Fools Crow is a zero,\" plainly showing that he had no respect for the traditions that Fools Crow stood for. In Washington D.C. on May 17, The Oglalas had their promised White House meeting, and Fools Crow was present. Of the five promised White House aides, two were there. Fools Crow was told that the historic treaties were dead.\n\nFools Crow spoke at a congressional hearing on June 16 and 17, 1973, following the conclusion of the Wounded Knee occupation; he only spoke Lakota, as was his way, and used an interpreter, Matthew King, to translate for him. He gave his reasons for the occupation, the main reason being the removal of Dick Wilson. Senator George McGovern said that he would try to remove Wilson, but was not sure if he had the power to do so. Fools Crow asserted that McGovern had promised earlier to remove Dick Wilson, yet the violence continued.\n\nIn August 1975, thirty activists, including Fools Crow, traveled to Washington D.C. to discuss the 1868 Treaty, sovereignty, and the continuing violence and civil rights violations. On September 5, Grandfather Fools Crow gave the opening prayer for the United States Senate. This is believed to be an accurate translation of his words:\n\nDuring the same morning as this prayer, the FBI staged a massive paramilitary raid on the property of Leonard Crow Dog.\n\nOn September 10, 1976, Fools Crow delivered a lengthy speech to the Congressional Subcommittee on Interior and Insular Affairs. The speech, entitled the \"Joint Statement of Chief Frank Fools Crow and Frank Kills Enemy on Behalf of the Traditional Lakota Treaty Council Before Honorable Lloyd Meads Sub–Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs,\" was a plea for the return of the Black Hills to his people. Later, the speech was printed up in poster form and widely disseminated over the reservations. The full speech can be read here.\n\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2390700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2390700", "title": "Gazelem", "text": "Gazelem\n\nGazelem (; \"one who gazes\") is a person or stone mentioned in the Book of Mormon.\n\nAlma 37:23 reads, \"And the Lord said: I will prepare unto my servant Gazelem, a stone, which shall shine forth in darkness unto light, that I may discover unto my people who serve me, that I may discover unto them the works of their brethren, yea, their secret works, their works of darkness, and their wickedness and abominations.\"\n\nThe punctuation seems to indicate that Gazelem is the name of the stone, not the servant, but this interpretation is not universal. The manuscript of the Book of Mormon that Joseph Smith presented to E.B. Grandin for printing did not have punctuation; Grandin added punctuation with Smith's permission. The index to the current LDS edition of the Book of Mormon defines \"Gazelem\" as \"Name given to servant of God.\"\n\nThe identity of Gazelem is uncertain, but the most likely candidates are (the seer stones used by) Mosiah and Joseph Smith. The Jaredites are the people whose secret works Gazelem is to bring to light, and both Mosiah and Joseph Smith are supposed to have used seer stones to translate the Jaredite record.\n\nIn early editions of the Doctrine and Covenants, \"Gazelam\" (sic) is one of the code names used for Joseph Smith, suggesting that he may have identified himself with Gazelem of the Book of Mormon.\n\nIf Gazelem is a prophet, contemporary to the early Nephites, who was given a Urim and Thummim, then there must have been two sets of interpreters among them. The other set of interpreters were the ones given to the Brother of Jared. They were later buried with the plates and used to translate the Book of Mormon (See Ether 3:23; DC 17:1). Another possibility is that Gazelem is not a proper name but a title for a seer. Thirdly, the name may be a reference to Joseph Smith, who was referred to in the D&C as \"Gazelam\" when code names were used to conceal the identity of those referred to in the revelations. The following quotes are helpful.\n\nThe word Gazelem appears to have its roots in Gaz - a stone and Aleim, a name of God as a revelator or interposer in the affairs of men. If this suggestion be correct, its roots admirably agree with its apparent meaning-a seer. (George Reynolds, A Dictionary of the Book of Mormon, p. 92)\n\nThis may well be a play on words. Is Gazelem the seer stone or the servant? It is difficult to tell from the passage and depends very much on the placement of a comma in the sentence. Perhaps it could refer to both. It is interesting to note that when Jesus called Simon Peter to the ministry he said: 'Thou art Simon the son of Jona: thou shalt be called Cephas, which is, by interpretation, a seer, or a stone' (JST, John 1:42). Though this name or title of Gazelem may be used in regard to any seer who utilizes seer stones, it seems in this instance to be a direct reference to Joseph Smith the Prophet or another. \nWe must emphasize that the Prophet Joseph Smith had the tradition of writing names as in the case of the brother of Jared who reveals it in a blessing.(McConkie and Millet, Doctrinal Commentary on the Book of Mormon, vol. 3, p. 278)\n\n"}
{"id": "8990332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8990332", "title": "God's eye", "text": "God's eye\n\nA God's eye (in Spanish, Ojo de Dios) is a spiritual and votive object made by weaving a design out of yarn upon a wooden cross. Often several colors are used. They are commonly found in Mexican and Mexican American communities, among both Indigenous and Catholic peoples.\n\n\"Ojos de Dios\" are common in the Pueblos of New Mexico. Often they reflect a confidence in all-seeing Providence. The spiritual eye of the \"Ojos de Dios\" is thought by some believers to have the power to see and understand things unknown to the physical eye. During Spanish colonial times in New Mexico, from the 16th to the 19th centuries, \"Ojos de Dios\" (God's Eye) were placed where people worked, or where they walked along a trail (Major, 2012).\n\nIn other parts of the Americas, artisans weave complicated or variegated versions of the traditional \"Ojos de Dios\", selling them as decorations or religious objects. There has also been a huge increase in the use of Ojos de Dios as an easy and fun craft for children.\n\nThe Ojo de Dios or God's eye is a ritual tool that was believed to protect those while they pray, magical object, and an ancient cultural symbol evoking the weaving motif and its spiritual associations for the Huichol and Tepehuan Indians of western Mexico. The Huichol call their God's Eyes Sikuli, which means \"the power to see and understand things unknown.\" When a child is born, the central eye is woven by the father, then one eye is added for every year of the child's life until the child reaches the age of five. Original Tepehuan Crosses are extremely rare to come by. There are many that are being made for the tourist market, but they do not carry the same traditional and spiritual significance.\n\nIn the traditional Huichol ranchos, the \"nieli'ka\" or \"nierika\" is an important ritual artifact. Negrín states that one of the principal meanings of \"nierika\" is that of \"a metaphysical vision, an aspect of a god or a collective ancestor,\" and is the same term the Tepehuán people use to refer to deities. Negrín quotes Lumholtz as stating that for the Huichol and Tepehuan \"a \"nierika\" means a picture, an appearance, or a sacred representation.\" The term \"nierika\" is etymologically rooted in the verb \"nieriya\", \"to see\". \"Nierika\" are found in Huichol and Tepehuans' most sacred places: house shrines (\"xiriki\"), springs, caves and temples. Some Natives of northwest Mexico and throughout the southwest U.S. have had visions during peyote ceremonies in which they received guidance from Gods who appeared before them in many shapes, though the eyes of the God were so intense and overwhelming that many Natives could only see the eye of the God. To show others the vision they had, they made the \"God's eye\" - woven on sticks with handspun yarn, colored with various types of berries, flowers, and other materials to capture the essence of their vision.\n\nNegrín states that: \"The votive \"nierika\" is generally a round offering, symbolizing an ancestor and prayer offerings sanctified by the blood of a sacrificed animal.\" \"Nierika\" as a ritual object may be attached to votive arrows with bamboo and yarn, or wood-and-wax-embedded objects. Similarly, Lumholtz states that the \"nierika\" \"evokes an ancestor, thanks it with blood offerings, and invokes its favors.\" The \"nierika\" may take different forms and fabrication may differ greatly: a small round or square tablet with a hole in the center covered on one or both sides with a mixture of beeswax and pine resin into which threads of yarn are pressed; when the image is not round, it may be considered a resting mat for the ancestors, or a prayer mat or itari.\n\nNegrín states the elaborate interwoven \"nierika\" that Lumholtz called \"namma\" (which is close to the pronunciation of Namkha) from which originated the detailed and now prized yarn paintings of the commercial art world, are now rarely if ever seen. \"Namma\" were generally rectangular or square in shape, with yarn woven onto a grid of bamboo sticks. These God’s Eyes are also called by the Spanish term \"ojo de dios\". One understanding of the \"ojo de dios\" according to Harvey is of a: \"wand\" (the eye) through which the eye of god will see the supplicant. Harvey states that: \"The cross of the \"ojo de dios\" is that of the legendary four directions: earth, fire, water, and air.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10716868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10716868", "title": "History of the Jews in Mexico", "text": "History of the Jews in Mexico\n\nThe history of the Jews in Mexico can be said to have begun in 1519 with the arrival of \"Conversos\", often called \"Marranos\" or “Crypto-Jews,” referring to those Jews forcibly converted to Catholicism and that then became subject to the Spanish Inquisition. \n\nOver the colonial period (1521-1821), a number came to Mexico especially during the period of the Iberian Union (1580-1640), when Spain and Portugal were ruled by the same monarch. That political circumstance allowed freer movement by Portuguese crypto-Jewish merchants into Spanish America. When the Portuguese won their independence from Spain in 1640, Portuguese merchants in New Spain were prosecuted by the Mexican Inquisition. When the monopoly of the Roman Catholic Church in Mexico was replaced with religious toleration during the nineteenth-century Liberal reform, Jews could openly immigrate to Mexico. They came from Europe and later from the crumbling Ottoman Empire and what is now Syria continuing into the first half of the 20th century.\n\nToday, most Jews in Mexico are descendants of this immigration and still divided by diasporic origin, principally Yiddish-speaking Ashkenazim and Ladino-speaking Sephardim. It is an insular community with its own religious, social and cultural institutions, mostly in Guadalajara and Mexico City. However, since the 1880s, there have been efforts to identify descendants of colonial era Conversos both in Mexico and the Southwestern United States, generally to return them to Judaism.\n\nJews and Conversos were part of the conquest and colonization in Mexico, and key participants in the transatlantic and transpacific trade networks, as well as development of domestic trade. Conversos accompanied Hernán Cortés in 1519. These were members of Jewish families which had been forcibly converted to Christianity in order to avoid expulsion from Spain after the Reconquest of the Iberian Peninsula from the Moors . The reconquest was followed by the Spanish Inquisition which made the Conversos one of their targets, with accusations of reverting to Judaic practice. Converso migration to the new Spanish colony began in 1530 after most of the violence from the conquest of the Aztec Empire had subsided and the Spanish Inquisition continued. For several decades these families were able to live peacefully, integrating into Mexico’s elite, with some become prominent Catholic clergy and some returning to Jewish practice.\nThe persecution of Jews came to New Spain along with the conquistadors. Bernal Díaz del Castillo described in his writings various execution of soldiers during the conquest of Mexico because they were accused of being practicing Jews, including Hernando Alonzo, who built the boats Cortés used to assault Tenochtitlán. However, the Mexican Inquisition was not fully established until 1571 to become a threat to Converso and Jewish communities with an initial purge of these peoples from 1585 to 1601. In 1606 Mexico received an order by the King of Spain to free Conversos in Inquisition prisons. This relaxing of the Inquisition in Mexico, which was never as severe as in Spain, allowed more to come over in the first half of the 17th century. New Conversos settled in Mexico City, Acapulco, Veracruz and Campeche as they provided the most opportunities for mercantile activity. Some did move to the more outlying areas such as Zacatecas but this area still afforded more opportunities than points further north. There was a second Inquisition persecution of Conversos/Crypto-Jews from 1642 to 1649. After that, the focus shifted to matters such as blasphemy and moral infractions. However, during the entire colonial period, practicing Jews in Spain or elsewhere could not enter Spanish colonial territory.\n\nOne notable episode during the colonial period was the establishment of the New Kingdom of León. In 1567 the Carvajal family arrived to New Spain under nobleman Luis de Carvajal. With the exception of him and a cousin, this family was Crypto-Jewish. In 1579 Carvajal was granted land in what is now northeastern Mexico, just north of what was then considered New Spain. This area welcomed both Conversos and practicing Jews, with about seventy five percent of the initial settlers being secretly Jewish. Some theories state that Monterrey developed as a commercial center despite its colonial era remoteness because of Crypto-Jewish influence. However, Luis de Carvajal and members of his family were persecuted in 1589 for practicing Judaism. The Auto-da-fé of Mariana Carvajal has become part of Mexican art and literature. By 1641 this colony had grown, and some of the settlers would later move to establish new settlements in Coahuila, Texas, and New Santander.\n\nThe largest number of prosecutions by the Mexican Inquisition occurred in the wake of the 1640 dissolution of the Iberian Union, when Spain and Portugal were ruled by the same monarch. Portuguese merchants more easily entered Spanish America, and a complex community of crypto-Jews connected to transatlantic and transpacific trade networks emerged. Evidence from individual cases prosecuted by the Mexican Inquisition indicates that most crypto-Jews in Mexico were born or Portugal themselves or their children, primarily from the Portuguese capital of Lisbon or Castelobranco. There were a few very wealthy Portuguese merchants, who were leaders of the community, but the largest number were shopkeepers and craftsmen. A prominent merchant was Simón Váez, whom the Inquisition accused of letting his house serve as a synagogue in the seventeenth century until the 1642 persecutions began. He had risen from humble circumstances, but he and other wealthy merchants came to socialize with crown officials and play a prominent role among elites. Their wealth was based on asientos (licenses) for the black slave trade in Mexico, since Portugal controlled the African coast where they were sourced. Portuguese merchants also held contracts for tax-farming, and for supplying the Spanish fleet and forts with stores and munitions.\n\nAfter Mexico gained its Independence, it abolished the Inquisition but Catholic religion was declared official. Remaining Crypto-Jews still did not openly admit to such but did begin to observe various Jewish rituals and from 1825 to 1860 and a few European Jews from Germany and Eastern Europe arrived. These immigrants were not allowed to become Mexican citizens but their main challenges to living in Mexico were economic rather than social or religious. In 1861 a group rented a hall to celebrate Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur, the first recorded instance of public Jewish worship. In 1865, then Emperor Maximilian I issued an edict of religious tolerance, with representatives from Jewish organizations in Europe and the United States coming to Mexico to explore the possibilities for immigration. From 1864 to 1867, the Mexican emperor invited some European Jews from France, Belgium and Austro-Hungary to settle in Mexico. By 1867, only twenty Jewish families were living in Mexico, with about a dozen more elsewhere.\n\nDuring the Reform War, the Liberals under Benito Juárez reinforced freedom of religion, allowing those Jews who arrived after that time Mexican citizenship and full integration. In the 1880s, a significant wave of Jewish immigration began as the Mexican government invited a number of Jewish bankers to operate in the country and the assassination of Czar Alexander II in Russia pushed Jews to leave the country. These Jews settled both in Mexico City and various other areas in the country, including rural areas often as traveling salesmen. About half of Mexico’s Jewish population can be linked to this wave of immigration. Another group of Jews that came at this time were industrialists from France. However many of the French arrivals were not interested in staying permanently and eventually went back after making their fortunes in Mexico. However a few did marry and stay leaving behind in Mexico City last names such as Herzog, Scherer and Levy. Jewish immigrants in Mexico City eventually built businesses such as haberdashery on Madero Street that was a center of European fashion and La Esmeralda jewelry store (now the Museo del Estanquillo) with a reputation similar to Tiffany’s on the corner of Isabel la Católica and Madero. The Jewish owner of El Salon Rojo, one of the capital’s first movie houses, help to develop the country’s first Jewish cemetery.\n\nDuring the very late 19th century into the 20th, Sephardic and Middle Eastern Jews also began arriving from what is now Syria and the crumbling Ottoman Empire, forming the Maguén David and Monte Sinaí communities. These with those still coming from Eastern Europe were poorer usually shoemakers, furriers, peddlers and tailors, which first lived in cities such as Puebla, Veracruz and Chiapas before migrating to Mexico City. For the Sephardic Jews similar language and culture made it easier for them to adapt.\n\nIn 1900, the Mexican census counted 134 Jews in the country. From then until 1950, an estimated 7,300 Jewish people immigrated to Mexico from Eastern Europe, 2,640 from Spain or the former Ottoman Empire, and 1,620 from Cuba and the United States. These various Jewish groups formed their own religious congregations and social institutions. Turkish Jews began holding open religious services in 1901 and founded the first Talmud Torah in 1905, as an educational institution for boys. Ashkenazi Jews began holding open services as early as 1904. The first formal Jewish organization in Mexico, the Monte Sinaí community was founded in 1912.\nDuring the Mexican Revolution many foreigners, including Jews, left the country but immediately after Jews began to arrive again in substantial numbers again. Between 1917 and 1920 they began to come from Russia, Poland, Lithuania, the Balkans and the Middle East. The rate increased in 1921 when the United States imposed quotas on its immigration. Ten thousand arrived from Eastern Europe to the port of Veracruz at the invitation of President Plutarco Elías Calles. Jewish organizations such as the Comité de Damas and North American B'nai B'rith were formed to help the new arrivals adapt. In the 1920s, the Jewish community grew and prospered in Mexico. The immigration rate slowed after 1929 because of the Great Depression and new immigration policies which favored those with a more similar ethnic and religious background to that of Mexico.\n\nMost of the Jewish communities’ social and religious organizations were formally founded in the first half of the 20th century. These include the Sociedad Beneficiencia Alianza Monte Sinaí (1912), the Young Men’s Hebrew Association in Mexico City. (1917), the first K’tav or Jewish religious school (1917), the first federally recognized synagogue under the terms of the Constitution of 1917 (1918), the Talmud Torá Hatihiá (1919), the Congregación Nidje Israel for Ashkenazi Jews (1922), the first Zionist organization (1922), the first Ashkenazi religious school (1922), the Asociación Cultural IL Peretz Farein, later called the Idisher Kultur Guezelshaft (1922), the Har Sinaé synagogue for the Damascus Jewish community, (1923), the first Keren Hayeson or campaign for the National Fund for Palestine (1923), the Centro Israelita and first synagogue in Monterrey (1923), the Colegio Israelita de México (1924), the Agudat Ajim community in Guadalajara (1923), the Bnej Kedem Sephardic community Center (1926), the Nidje Israel Ashkenazi cemetery (1929), the Cámara Israelita de Industria y Comerico in Méxicoand the Unión de Literatos y Artistas Judíos (1931), the Federación de Sociedades Israelitas de México (1932), the Colegio Israelita Hatikva in Monterrey (1932), B'nai B'rith (1934), the Sociedad de Beneficiencia Sdadá Umarpé for the Aleppo Jewish community, today the Comunidad Maguén David (1938) and the first Zionist convention (1938) . In addition various newspapers and other periodicals were established in various languages such as Mexicanisher Idish Leben (Yiddish, 1927), Der Veg (Yiddish with Spanish section, 1929), Di shtime (Yiddish, 1935) and La Verdad (Spanish, 1936). The first printing press for the Hebrew alphabet was brought to Mexico in 1930.\n\nThe Jewish population in Mexico was estimated at 21,000 in 1930. From then until the 1940s, the Jews that arrived were those fleeing the Nazis but this immigration was not as large as in previous decades as most of those who arrived where those who already had family and friends in the country.\n\nDespite its strong Catholic identity and history of Inquisition, there has been little intolerance or resistance to Jewish immigration into Mexico. While the Catholic Church did not welcome Jewish immigration in the 19th century, it was still struggling against the government restrictions and saw growing Protestantism as a greater threat than that of the Jewish community. Over the 20th century, the Mexican Catholic Church lost its opposition to the Jewish presence. The only recorded incidents of significant anti-Semitism came in the 1930s during economic depression. Mexican labor unions pressured the government to restrict Chinese and Jewish immigration. In May 1931, 250 Jewish merchants were expelled from the La Lagunilla Market in Mexico City . In the late 1930s, some anti-Jewish demonstrations erupted, mostly by Nazi supporters financed by Berlin. In 1937, an immigrant quota system was initiated, which restricted immigration from certain countries such as Poland to 100 people per year, shutting out many Jewish would-be-immigrants. However, at the same time the Mexican government allowed for some immigration of refugees, for example looking the other way when 200 Jews from Cuba entered the country illegally under the government of Lázaro Cárdenas .\n\nJewish religious and social institutions coalesced and grew in the mid 20th century with the Centro Cultural Israelita (1941), the Comité Central Israelita legally recognized to represent the Jewish community (1942), the Unión Sefaradí receiving official recognition (1943), the founding of the Comité Unido de Antidifamación (1943), the formation of the Comité Unido de Tribuna Israelita by the Comité Central Israelita and the Logia Mexicana del B'nai B'rith (1944), the founding of the Unión Israelita Maguén David in Tijuana (1946), the Centro Cultural México Israel (1947), the Colegio Israelita de Guadalajara (1949), the Centro Deportivo Israelita (1950), the Beth Israel Community Center for English speakers (1957) and the Nidje Israel Temple in Acapulco Street in Mexico City (1965).\n\nIn 1987 the Tribuna Israelita along with Universidad Nacional Autónoma de Mexico (UNAM) began a series of cultural presentations about Judaism in Mexico. However, little attention was paid to the history of Jews in Mexico until the 1990s. In 1992, a study of Jewish communities in Mexico was published by UNAM in collaboration with the Tribuna Israelita and the Comite Central Israelita de Mexico, called Imágenes de un Encuentro: La Presencia Judía en México Durante La Primera Mitad del Siglo XX (Images of an Encounter: The Jewish Presence in Mexico during the First Half of the 20th Century) which received the CANIEM Prize in 1993. It depicts Mexican Jews as well integrated into Mexican society but with more observance of religion in everyday life than most other Jews of the Diaspora. In 1995, Tribuna Israelita co sponsored Las Jornadas Contra del Racismo along with the Secretaría de Educación Pública and other organizations.\n\nThe current Jewish population in Mexico mostly consists of those who have descended from immigrants from the 19th and early 20th centuries with nationwide totals estimated between 40,000 and 50,000, about 75% of whom are in Mexico City. The exact numbers are not known. One main source for figures is the Comité Central Israelita in Mexico City but its contact is limited to Orthodox and Conservative congregations with no contact with Jews that may be affiliated with the Reform movement or those who consider themselves secular. The Mexican government census lists religion but its categories are confusing, confusing those of some Protestant sects which practice Judaic rituals with Jewish groups. There is also controversy as to whether to count those Crypto-Jews who have converted (back) to Judaism. Sixty two percent of the population over fifteen is married, three percent divorced and four percent widowed. However, younger Jewish women are more likely to be employed outside the home (only 18% of women are housewives) and fertility rates are dropping from 3.5 children of women over 65 to 2.7 for the overall population now. There is a low level of intermarriage with the general Mexican population, with only 3.1% of marriages being mixed. Although the Jewish community is less than one percent of Mexico’s total population, Mexico is one of the few countries whose Jewish population is expected to grow.\nThe Mexican Jewish community has strong roots in Mexico and has few problems in its host country. Openly Jewish people serve prominently in government positions and are found in most spheres of Mexico’s business, intellectual and artistic communities. One U.S. born Jew by the name of Sidney Franklin became a popular bullfighter in the early 1920s. There are occasional clashes between the Jewish community and others in Mexico but these are generally solved peacefully. There is an Interfaith Council to help with these issues. While the Catholic Church is dominant both religiously and culturally, it does not suppress the worship or other activities of other religious groups. The only challenges the community faces are intermarriage and migration out of the country. However, Latin American popular culture can resent apparent Jewish economic success, with the community associated with international capital and international influence.\n\nJews in Mexico are less united than those in the United States and Canada. Among those descended from immigrants, there remain social divisions based on place of origin despite unification efforts. Those from Aleppo, Damascus and the Balkans and Eastern Europe have their own synagogues and other institutions. However, the main split is between the Ashkenazim from Russia, Poland, Germany and other parts of Europe from the Sephardim, mostly from Italy and the former Ottoman Empire. The Ashkenazim subdivide among political and ideological axes and tend to be more liberal and secular. They founded several newspapers and other publications such as Mexikaner Idish Lebn, Radikaler Arbeter Tzenter, Unzer Lebn and others to express these different views. The Sephardim tend to be more patriarchal, less well educated and more religiously observant. Those from Syria are further subdivided into Halebis or Maguen David from Aleppo and the Shamis or Monte Sinai from Damascus.\n\nDespite ethnic identification all identify as Mexican as well, seeing the two as complementary rather than conflicting. Literature written by Mexican and other Latin American Jewish writers tend to explore the question of what it means to be a Jew in the region. These authors include Sonia Chocron, Alicia Freilich de Segal, Jacqueline Goldberg, Martha Kornblith, Elisa Lerner and Blanca Strepponi. Author Rosa Nissan has written a number of books related to growing up Jewish in Mexico include Novia que te vea and its sequel Hisho que te Nazca.\n\nDuring the early 20th century, Jewish immigrants started a large number of religious and social organizations to help the community adapt to life in Mexico and conserve their heritage. On Tacuba Street in the historic center of Mexico City there is a building called the Palacio de Mármol (Marble Palace). The site was originally part of a convent, but later it was subdivided and a French style mansion built in the late 19th century. After World War I, it became an important Jewish community center, active for nearly two decades. At first it worked to help newly arrived Jews settle in Mexico but it was also a social and educational center. Today, there are ten main organizations to which most of Mexican Jewry is affiliated. The Beth Israel Community Center is an organization which caters to the English speaking community that practices Conservative Judaism. The Jewish Sport Center is a neutral meeting place open to all sectors of the Jewish community as sports, culture and social institution with a membership of about 19,000. The Monterrey Community Center is the main organization for this northern city. The North Baja California Community Center served the Tijuana Jewish community. The Ashkenazai Community served the descendants of those who immigrated from Eastern Europe. The Bet El Community is a Conservative organization. The Guadalajara Community Center is for those who live in that city. The Maguen David Community was formed by descendants of immigrants from Aleppo, Syria. The Alianza Monte Sinaí was formed by descendants from Damascus, Syria and the Sephardic Community was formed by descendants of immigrants from the Balkans. There are a number of women’s organizations, which mostly focus on humanitarian issues both inside and outside the Jewish community. Women also run most of the educational institutions.\n\nThe Jewish Central Committee of Mexico was formed in 1938 as a response to the situation for European Jews at that time. At first, its function was to help Jews escape from the Nazis but later became an umbrella organization for the various Jewish communities in Mexico. It also acts as a representative body for all Jews in Mexico with the Mexican government and other Jewish communities outside of Mexico such as the World Jewish Congress. The Tribuna Israelita is a part of this organization, whose purpose is to work with other agencies to promote understanding of Jewry in Mexico including publications and also works to influence public opinion about anti-Semitism. Another sub organization is the Mexican Council of Jewish Women, which mostly works on projects related to education and health.\n\nThe Mexican Jewish immigrant community has been described as closed and separate from the rest of Mexican society. About ninety percent of Mexican Jews attend Jewish schools and marry within the faith. There are Scouting and Zionist organizations for Jewish youth. Most who attend Mexican universities belong to the Mexican Federation of Jewish Students (FEMUJ) . However, there have been outreach efforts. In 2009, Alan Grabinsky and Paul Feldmen established a Moishe House in the Condesa neighborhood, one of only two in Latin America. The idea is to create a social center for young Jews outside of the western suburbs of Mexico City to make the Jewish community less isolated from the rest of Mexican society. The Mexico International Jewish Film Festival attracts a mostly non-Jewish audience and has expanded from Mexico City to Guadalajara, Monterrey and Cancún. A radio show on Jewish topics called El Aleph has a mostly non Jewish following. Tribuna Israelita organizes programs at private universities to increase public understanding of Israel and Judaism. Other Jewish social organizations include the Mexican Association of Friends for academic projects, ORT which works to implement technologies in Mexican high schools, Retorno to combat alcohol and drug abuse and Kadima with works on issued related to the disabled.\n\nIn Greater Mexico City, notable communities exist in Colonia Hipódromo Condesa, Polanco, Lomas de Chapultepec, Santa Fe and Huixquilucan, State of Mexico . Of the sixteen Jewish schools about a dozen of those are in Mexico City which also has over two dozen synagogues.\n\nIn the 1920s, the Jewish community in Mexico City still centered in the Historic Downtown northeast of the Zócalo around Jesús María street, \"the equivalent of Delancey Street\" in New York, according to author Ilan Stavans. In the 1930s and 40s many Jewish residents moved to the leafy streetcar suburbs of Roma and Condesa, where Yiddish was the unofficial language of Parque México, the local park. Today, in the area, there is a Jewish museum, archives, synagogue, and kosher deli at Acapulco Street #70, several more small orthodox synagogues hidden inside houses on , and another synagogue at the corner of Montes de Oca and Parral streets. In the 1950s, 60s, and 70s, Jews moved further west to Polanco, Lomas de Chapultepec, Interlomas, Bosques de las Lomas, and Tecamachalco, where the majority are now based.\n\nThe Mexican Inquisition succeeded in eliminating all vestiges of open Judaism in Mexico but there are an estimated 20,000 Mexicans with Jewish ancestry. While the Crypto-Jews were assimilated into the general populace, there are families in Mexico and the southwest United States that practice what appear to be Jewish rituals and customs, knowing or not knowing where these come from. For those claiming Crypto-Jewish heritage one or more of three lines of evidence are usually presented: the existence of Jewish rituals in the family, the existence of Inquisition records with Jewish family names and the oral history of the family. It also generally includes strong secrecy about family history and rituals. For some descendants, the discovery of Crypto-Jewish heritage leads them to reclaiming all or some of the Sephardic Jewish faith, often by adopting a number of rituals and customs.\n\nIn 1880, Bonifacio Laureano Moyar worked to find and organize the descendants of Conversos or Crypto-Jews with the aim of restoring full Jewish worship among them. These efforts led to the establishment of the Kahal Kadosh Bnej Elohim in Venta Prieta, Hidalgo in 1920. There is also a small community of Conversos practicing Judaism in the Vallejo neighborhood of Mexico City, but the main immigrant Jewish organizations do not recognize them.\n\nEfforts to find Jewish descendants have continued. Texas Rabbi Samuel S. Lerer, influenced by the Venta Prieta experience, began working with those of Jewish heritage starting in 1968, mostly working in Veracruz and Puebla. A number of these converts have migrated to Israel. Starting in the 1990s, a group called Kulanu, a Hebrew word meaning “all of us” began exploring other aspects of Judaism, such as Jewish ancestry in Mexico, especially that of the Conversos. They have sought out descendants of Conversos, without permission of the Rabbinate, and converted them to Judaism. They have not only worked with those who know of their Jewish ancestry, but also have reached out to families who observe certain Jewish rituals, such as separating meat and dairy, without knowing why. Although Kulanu is based in the United States, it has worked in Mexico to have these converts recognized by other Jewish communities in Mexico.\n\nHowever, there has been resistance to these efforts for various reasons. First is that many of those descended from Jewish ancestry do not want to abandon the Catholic faith. The goal of finding and converting Crypto-Jews is controversial. Established immigrant Jewish communities are resistant because they do not want problems from the Catholic majority and because Orthodox Jews, the dominant group in Mexico, do not proselytize. They insist only those of a Jewish mother are Jewish. The Jewish committee’s numbers do not include converts of Crypto-Jews as the two groups do not have contact.\n\nIn addition to Crypto-Jews in modern Mexico, the history of colonial Mexico extends to the claims of families in the Southwest United States to be descended from Sephardic Jews escaping the Mexican Inquisition with some making a connection to the Crypto-Jewish settlers of the New Kingdom of León. There claims are controversial with academics both supporting and debunking these claims.\n\n"}
{"id": "29774309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29774309", "title": "Islam in Saint Kitts and Nevis", "text": "Islam in Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nAccording to a 2009 Pew Research Center report, Muslims constitute approximately 0.1% of the population in Saint Kitts and Nevis. The islands are home to two Islamic centres/mosques and several Islamic organisations. Muslim Student Organisations are also present in the local universities like the Windsor University School of Medicine.\n"}
{"id": "52171014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52171014", "title": "Kwok Pui-lan", "text": "Kwok Pui-lan\n\nKwok Pui-lan (; born 1952) is a Hong Kong-born feminist theologian known for her work on Asian feminist theology and postcolonial theology.\n\nKwok was born in Hong Kong to Chinese parents who practiced Chinese folk religion at home. She converted to Anglican Christianity, when she was a teenager.\n\nShe started her BA at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, before moving on to do her BD and MTh at Southeast Asia Graduate School of Theology. She gained her ThD from Harvard Divinity School, finishing her doctoral dissertation on \"Chinese Women and Christianity\" in 1989, later published through Scholars Press. She is the author of twenty books, including \"Postcolonial Imagination and Feminist Theology (2005)\". She has published in the disciplines of feminist theology, postcolonial theology and biblical hermeneutics from her personal perspective of an Asian woman.\n\nFrom 1992-2017, she was teaching at the Episcopal Divinity School in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and was appointed the William F. Cole Professor of Christian Theology and Spirituality. Since Fall 2017, she has been a Distinguished Visiting Professor of Theology at Candler School of Theology.\n\nIn 2011 she was elected President of the American Academy of Religion, a position she ran for on account of her desire to make more visible the presence of Asian women in theology and academia. She writes, \"as leaders, we have to bring the tribe along. Those of us who are pioneers have the responsibility of opening the door a little wider for others to come.\"\n\nKwok's work has used as a locus her position and identity as an Asian woman. Writing in feminist theology, postcolonial criticism and biblical hermeneutics, she has maintained as her identity as an Asian woman, incorporating it into her work. She explains:As Asian Christian women, we have our own story, which is both Asian and Christian. We can only tell this story by developing a new hermeneutics: a hermeneutics of double suspicion and reclamation.Her focus and aim is to explore the lives and experiences of marginalised women and as such she is considered part of the movement of Third World theologians.\n\nShe has engaged with postcolonial theory in her work, most prominently in \"Postcolonial Imagination and Feminist Theology\", where she argues against the inadequacies of traditional feminist theology. She states that traditional feminist theory has not sufficiently considered the experiences of non-white women, and the effects of colonialism, neocolonialism and slavery. Her aim is to marry postcolonial theory to feminist theology and she writes for the need to overcome the binary concept of gender, arguing for a more fluid interpretation of gender and the inclusion of queer sexuality. She argues that \"the most important contribution of postcolonial feminist theology will be to recapitulate the relation of theology and empire through the multiple lenses of gender, race, class, sexuality, religion, and so forth.\" The aim of her work is to create a theology that more accurately reflects the multiple levels of oppression that women in postcolonial contexts face.\n\nKwok views God as organic, and places it in context of the growing ecological crisis in Asia. She also examines the concept of constructing a Christology using an organic model, referring to the multiple nature references Jesus uses to describe himself and his relationship with believers.\n\nKwok advocates for the incorporation of oral methods within theology, writing \"we must allow the possibility of doing theology in poems, songs, stories, dances, rituals, and even lullabies.\" For Kwok, the storytelling tradition within many Asian societies offers a rich resource for innovative ways of doing theology as women engage with biblical stories through drama and the sharing of life experiences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14076497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14076497", "title": "Lao Lom", "text": "Lao Lom\n\nThe Lao Lom (, ), also called Tai Lom (, ) or Tai Loei (, ), are an ethnic group in Thailand and Laos. They should not be confused with the Lao Loum (lowland Lao), who make up approximately 69% of the population of Laos.\n\nThe Lao Lom have a population of approximately 27,000 spread out over the Loei, Phetchabun, Phitsanulok and Nong Khai Provinces of Thailand. There are also Lao Lom in the Bokeo Province of Laos.\n\nThe Lao Lom are known for a social way of life.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "18687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18687", "title": "Leninism", "text": "Leninism\n\nLeninism is the political theory for the organisation of a revolutionary vanguard party and the achievement of a dictatorship of the proletariat as political prelude to the establishment of socialism.\n\nDeveloped by and named for the Russian revolutionary Vladimir Lenin, Leninism comprises socialist political and economic theories, developed from Marxism and Lenin's interpretations of Marxist theories, for practical application to the socio-political conditions of the Russian Empire of the early 20th century. Functionally, the Leninist vanguard party was to provide the working class with the political consciousness (education and organisation) and revolutionary leadership necessary to depose capitalism in Imperial Russia. After the October Revolution of 1917, Leninism was the dominant version of Marxism in Russia and in establishing soviet democracy the Bolshevik régime suppressed socialists who opposed the revolution, such as the Mensheviks and factions of the Socialist Revolutionary Party. The Russian Civil War (1917–1922) thus included left-wing uprisings against the Bolsheviks (1918–1924) that were suppressed in the Russian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic (RSFSR) before incorporation to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) in 1922.\n\nLeninism was composed as and for revolutionary praxis and originally was neither a rigorously proper philosophy nor a discrete political theory. After the Russian Revolution and in \"History and Class Consciousness: Studies in Marxist Dialectics\" (1923), György Lukács developed and organised Lenin's pragmatic revolutionary practices and ideology into the formal philosophy of vanguard-party revolution (Leninism). As a political-science term, \"Leninism\" entered common usage in 1922 after infirmity ended Lenin's participation in governing the Russian Communist Party. At the Fifth Congress of the Communist International in July 1924, Grigory Zinoviev popularized the term \"Leninism\" to denote \"vanguard-party revolution\". From 1917 to 1922, Leninism was the Russian application of Marxist economics and political philosophy, effected and realised by the Bolsheviks, the vanguard party who led the fight for the political independence of the working class. In the 1925–1929 period, Joseph Stalin established Leninism as the official and only legitimate form of Marxism in Russia by amalgamating the political philosophies as Marxism–Leninism, which then became the state ideology of the Soviet Union.\n\nIn the 19th century, \"The Communist Manifesto\" (1848), by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, called for the international political unification of the European working classes in order to achieve a communist revolution and proposed that because the socio-economic organization of communism was of a higher form than that of capitalism, a workers' revolution would first occur in the economically advanced, industrialized countries. Marxist social democracy was strongest in Germany throughout the 19th century and the Social Democratic Party of Germany inspired Lenin and other Russian Marxists.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the socio-economic backwardness of Imperial Russia (1721–1917)—uneven and combined economic development—facilitated rapid and intensive industrialization, which produced a united, working-class proletariat in a predominantly rural, agrarian, peasant society. Moreover, because the industrialization was financed mostly with foreign capital, Imperial Russia did not possess a revolutionary bourgeoisie with political and economic influence upon the workers and the peasants (as occurred in the French Revolution, 1789). Although Russia's political economy principally was agrarian and semi-feudal, the task of democratic revolution therefore fell to the urban, industrial working class as the only social class capable of effecting land reform and democratization, in view that the Russian propertied classes would attempt to suppress any revolution, in town and country.\n\nIn April 1917, Lenin published the April Theses, the political strategy of the October Revolution (7–8 November 1917), which proposed that the Russian revolution was not an isolated national event, but a fundamentally international event—the first world socialist revolution. Thus Lenin's practical application of Marxism and working-class urban revolution to the social, political and economic conditions of the agrarian peasant society that was Tsarist Russia sparked the \"revolutionary nationalism of the poor\" to depose the absolute monarchy of the three-hundred-year Romanov dynasty (1613–1917).\n\nIn the course of developing the Russian application of Marxism, the pamphlet \"Imperialism, the Highest Stage of Capitalism\" (1916) presented Lenin's analysis of an economic development predicted by Karl Marx, namely that capitalism would become a global financial system, wherein advanced industrial countries export financial capital to their colonial countries, to finance the exploitation of their natural resources and the labour of the native populations. Such superexploitation of the poor (undeveloped) countries allows the wealthy (developed) countries to maintain some homeland workers politically content with a slightly higher standard of living and so ensure peaceful labour–capital relations in the capitalist homeland (see labour aristocracy and globalization). Hence, a proletarian revolution of workers and peasants could not occur in the developed capitalist countries while the imperialist global-finance system remained intact; thus an underdeveloped country would feature the first proletarian revolution; and in the early 20th century, Imperial Russia was the politically weakest country in the capitalist global-finance system.\n\nIn the \"United States of Europe Slogan\" (1915), Lenin said: \n\nIn \"\" (1920), Lenin said: \n\nIn Chapter II: \"Proletarians and Communists\" of \"The Communist Manifesto\" (1848), Marx and Engels presented the idea of the vanguard party as solely qualified to politically lead the proletariat in revolution: \n\nHence, the purpose of the Leninist vanguard party is to establish a democratic dictatorship of the proletariat; supported by the working class, the vanguard party would lead the revolution to depose the incumbent Tsarist government; and then transfer power of government to the working class, which change of ruling class—from bourgeoisie to proletariat—makes possible the full development of socialism. In the pamphlet \"What Is To Be Done?\" (1902), Lenin proposed that a revolutionary vanguard party, mostly recruited from the working class, should lead the political campaign because it was the only way that the proletariat could successfully achieve a revolution; unlike the economist campaign of trade-union-struggle advocated by other socialist political parties; and later by the anarcho-syndicalists. Like Marx, Lenin distinguished between the aspects of a revolution, the \"economic campaign\" (labour strikes for increased wages and work concessions), which featured diffused plural leadership; and the \"political campaign\" (socialist changes to society), which required the decisive revolutionary leadership of the Bolshevik vanguard party.\n\nAs epitomised in the slogan \"Freedom in Discussion, Unity in Action\", Lenin followed the example of the First International (IWA, International Workingmen's Association, 1864–1876) and organised the Bolsheviks as a democratically centralised vanguard party, wherein free political-speech was recognised legitimate until policy consensus. Afterwards, every member of the party would be expected to uphold the official policy established in consensus. In the pamphlet \"Freedom to Criticise and Unity of Action\" (1905), Lenin said: \n\nFull, inner-party democratic debate was Bolshevik Party practice under Lenin, even after the banning of party factions in 1921. Although a guiding influence in policy, Lenin did not exercise absolute power and continually debated and discussed to have his point of view accepted. Under Stalin, the inner-party practice of democratic free debate did not continue after the death of Lenin in 1924.\n\nBefore the Revolution, despite supporting political reform (including Bolsheviks elected to the Duma, when opportune), Lenin proposed that capitalism could ultimately only be overthrown with revolution, not with gradual reforms—from within (Fabianism) and from without (social democracy)—which would fail because the ruling capitalist social class, who hold economic power (the means of production), determine the nature of political power in a bourgeois society. As epitomised in the slogan \"For a Democratic Dictatorship of the Proletariat and Peasantry\", a revolution in the underdeveloped Russian Empire required an allied proletariat of town and country (urban workers and peasants) because the urban workers would be too few to successfully assume power in the cities on their own. Moreover, owing to the middle-class aspirations of much of the peasantry, Leon Trotsky proposed that the proletariat should lead the revolution as the only way for it to be truly socialist and democratic. Although Lenin initially disagreed with Trotsky's formulation, he adopted it before the Russian Revolution in October 1917.\n\nIn the Russian socialist society, government by direct democracy was effected by elected soviets (workers' councils), which \"soviet government\" form Lenin described as the manifestation of the Marxist \"democratic dictatorship of the proletariat\". As political organisations, the soviets would comprise representatives of factory workers' and trade union committees, but would exclude capitalists as a social class in order to ensure the establishment of a proletarian government, by and for the working class and the peasants. About the political disenfranchisement of the Russian capitalist social classes, Lenin said that \"depriving the exploiters of the franchise is a purely Russian question, and not a question of the dictatorship of the proletariat, in general. [...] In which countries [...] democracy for the exploiters will be, in one or another form, restricted [...] is a question of the specific national features of this or that capitalism\". In chapter five of \"The State and Revolution\" (1917), Lenin describes the dictatorship of the proletariat as such: \n\nAbout democracy, Lenin further stated the following in \"The State and Revolution\": \n\nSoviet constitutionalism was the collective government form of the Russian dictatorship of the proletariat, the opposite of the government form of the dictatorship of capital (privately owned means of production) practised in bourgeois democracies. In the soviet political system, the (Leninist) vanguard party would be one of many political parties competing for elected power. Nevertheless, the circumstances of the Red vs. White Russian Civil War and terrorism by the opposing political parties and in aid of the White Armies' counter-revolution led to the Bolshevik government banning other parties, thus the vanguard party became the sole, legal political party in Russia. Lenin did not regard such political suppression as philosophically inherent to the dictatorship of the proletariat, yet the Stalinists retrospectively claimed that such factional suppression was original to Leninism.\n\nThe Soviet Union nationalised industry and established a foreign-trade monopoly to allow the productive co-ordination of the national economy and so prevent Russian national industries from competing against each other. To feed the populaces of town and country, Lenin instituted War Communism (1918–1921) as a necessary condition—adequate supplies of food and weapons—for fighting the Russian Civil War (1917–1923). Later in March 1921, he established the New Economic Policy (NEP, 1921–1929), which allowed measures of private commerce, internal free trade and replaced grain requisitions with an agricultural tax under the management of state banks. The purpose of the NEP was to resolve food-shortage riots among the peasantry and allowed measures of private enterprise, wherein the profit motive encouraged the peasants to harvest the crops required to feed the people of town and country; and to economically re-establish the urban working class, who had lost many men (workers) to the counter-revolutionary Civil War. With the NEP, the socialist nationalisation of the economy could then be developed to industrialise Russia, strengthen the working class and raise standards of living, thus the NEP would advance socialism against capitalism. Lenin regarded the appearance of new socialist states in the developed countries as necessary to the strengthening Russia's economy and the eventual development of socialism. In that, he was encouraged by the German Revolution of 1918–1919, the Italian insurrection and general strikes of 1920 and industrial unrest in Britain, France and the United States.\n\nLenin recognized and accepted the existence of nationalism among oppressed peoples, advocated their national rights to self-determination and opposed the ethnic chauvinism of \"Greater Russia\" because such ethnocentrism was a cultural obstacle to establishing the proletarian dictatorship in the territories of the deposed Russian Empire (1721–1917). In \"The Right of Nations to Self-determination\" (1914), Lenin said: \n\nThe internationalist philosophies of Bolshevism and of Marxism are based upon class struggle transcending nationalism, ethnocentrism and religion, which are intellectual obstacles to class consciousness because the bourgeois ruling classes manipulated said cultural \"status quo\" to politically divide the proletarian working classes. To overcome the political barrier of nationalism, Lenin said it was necessary to acknowledge the existence of nationalism among oppressed peoples and to guarantee their national independence as the right of secession; and that based upon national self-determination, it was natural for socialist states to transcend nationalism and form a federation. In \"The Question of Nationalities, or \"Autonomisation\"\" (1923), Lenin said the following: \n\nThe role of the Marxist vanguard party was to politically educate the workers and peasants to dispel the societal false consciousness of religion and nationalism that constitute the cultural \"status quo\" taught by the bourgeoisie to the proletariat to facilitate their economic exploitation of peasant and worker. Influenced by Lenin, the Central Committee of the Bolshevik Party stated that the development of the socialist workers' culture should not be \"hamstrung from above\" and opposed the \"Proletkult\" (1917–1925) organisational control of the national culture.\n\nIn post-Revolutionary Russia, Stalinism (socialism in one country) and Trotskyism (permanent world revolution) were the principal philosophies of communism that claimed legitimate ideological descent from Leninism, thus within the Communist Party, each ideological faction denied the political legitimacy of the opposing faction.\n\nUntil shortly before his death, Lenin worked to counter the disproportionate political influence of Joseph Stalin in the Communist Party and in the bureaucracy of the Soviet government, partly because of abuses he had committed against the populace of Georgia and partly because the autocratic Stalin had accumulated administrative power disproportionate to his office of General Secretary of the Communist Party. The counter-action against Stalin aligned with Lenin's advocacy of the right of self-determination for the national and ethnic groups of the former Tsarist Empire, which was a key theoretic concept of Leninism. Lenin warned that Stalin has \"unlimited authority concentrated in his hands, and I am not sure whether he will always be capable of using that authority with sufficient caution\" and formed a factional bloc with Leon Trotsky to remove Stalin as the General Secretary of the Communist Party.\n\nTo that end followed proposals reducing the administrative powers of party posts in order to reduce bureaucratic influence upon the policies of the Communist Party. Lenin advised Trotsky to emphasize Stalin's recent bureaucratic alignment in such matters (e.g. undermining the anti-bureaucratic workers' and peasants' Inspection) and argued to depose Stalin as General Secretary. Despite advice to refuse \"any rotten compromise\", Trotsky did not heed Lenin's advice and General Secretary Stalin retained power over the Communist Party and the bureaucracy of the soviet government.\n\nAfter Lenin's death (21 January 1924), Trotsky ideologically battled the influence of Stalin, who formed ruling blocs within the Russian Communist Party (with Grigory Zinoviev and Lev Kamenev, then with Nikolai Bukharin and then by himself) and so determined soviet government policy from 1924 onwards. The ruling blocs continually denied Stalin's opponents the right to organise as an opposition faction within the party—thus the re-instatement of democratic centralism and free speech within the Communist Party were key arguments of Trotsky's Left Opposition and the later Joint Opposition.\nIn the course of instituting government policy, Stalin promoted the doctrine of socialism in one country (adopted 1925), wherein the Soviet Union would establish socialism upon Russia's economic foundations (and support socialist revolutions elsewhere). Conversely, Trotsky held that socialism in one country would economically constrain the industrial development of the Soviet Union and thus required assistance from the new socialist countries that had arisen in the developed world—which was essential for maintaining Soviet democracy—in 1924 much undermined by civil war and counter-revolution. Furthermore, Trotsky's theory of permanent revolution proposed that socialist revolutions in underdeveloped countries would go further towards dismantling feudal régimes and establish socialist democracies that would not pass through a capitalist stage of development and government. Hence, revolutionary workers should politically ally with peasant political organisations, but not with capitalist political parties. In contrast, Stalin and allies proposed that alliances with capitalist political parties were essential to realising a revolution where communists were too few. However, said Stalinist practice failed, especially in the Northern Expedition portion of the Chinese Revolution (1925–1927), wherein it resulted in the right-wing Kuomintang's massacre of the Chinese Communist Party. Despite the failure, Stalin's policy of mixed-ideology political alliances nonetheless became Comintern policy.\n\n\nUntil exiled from Russia in 1929, Trotsky helped develop and led the Left Opposition (and the later Joint Opposition) with members of the Workers' Opposition, the Decembrists and (later) the Zinovievists. Trotskyism ideologically predominated the political platform of the Left Opposition, which demanded the restoration of soviet democracy, the expansion of democratic centralism in the Communist Party, national industrialisation, international permanent revolution and socialist internationalism. The Trotskyist demands countered Stalin's political dominance of the Russian Communist Party, which was officially characterised by the \"cult of Lenin\", the rejection of permanent revolution and the doctrine of socialism in one country. The Stalinist economic policy vacillated between appeasing capitalist kulak interests in the countryside and destroying them. Initially, the Stalinists also rejected the national industrialisation of Russia, but then pursued it in full, sometimes brutally. In both cases, the Left Opposition denounced the regressive nature of the policy towards the kulak social class of wealthy peasants and the brutality of forced industrialisation. Trotsky described the vacillating Stalinist policy as a symptom of the undemocratic nature of a ruling bureaucracy.\n\nDuring the 1920s and the 1930s, Stalin fought and defeated the political influence of Trotsky and of the Trotskyists in Russia, by means of slander, antisemitism, programmed censorship, expulsions, exile (internal and external) and imprisonment. The anti–Trotsky campaign culminated in the executions (official and unofficial) of the Moscow Trials (1936–1938), which were part of the Great Purge of Old Bolsheviks (who had led the Revolution). Once established as ruler of the Soviet Union, General Secretary Stalin re-titled the official socialism in one country doctrine as Marxism–Leninism to establish ideologic continuity with Leninism whilst opponents continued calling it Stalinism.\n\nIn political practice, Leninism (vanguard-party revolution), despite its origin as communist revolutionary praxis, was adopted throughout the political spectrum.\n\nIn the event, the practical application of Maoism to the socio-economic conditions of Third World countries produced revolutionary vanguard parties, such as the Communist Party of Peru – Red Fatherland.\n\nIn \"The Nationalities Question in the Russian Revolution\" (1918), Marxist Rosa Luxemburg criticized the Bolsheviks and their policies for: the suppression of the All Russian Constituent Assembly (January 1918); the partitioning of the feudal estates to the peasant communes; and the right of self-determination of every national people of the Russias. Luxemburg said that the strategic (geopolitical) mistakes of the Bolsheviks would create great dangers for the Russian Revolution, such as the bureaucratisation that would arise to administrate the oversized country that was Bolshevik Russia. In defence of expedient revolutionary practise, Lenin criticised in \"\" (1920) the political and ideological complaints of the anti-Bolshevik critics who claimed ideologically correct stances that were to the political-left of Lenin.\n\nIn Marxist philosophy, the term \"left communism\" identifies a range of communist political perspectives that are left-wing among communists. Left communism criticizes the ideology that the Bolshevik Party practiced as a revolutionary vanguard at certain periods of their history. Ideologically, left communists present their perspective and approach as more authentically Marxist and more oriented to the proletariat than it is the Leninism of the Communist International at their first (1919) and second (1920) congresses. Proponents of left communism include Amadeo Bordiga, Herman Gorter, Antonie Pannekoek, Otto Rühle, Sylvia Pankhurst and Paul Mattick.\n\nHistorically, the Dutch–German communist left has been most critical of Lenin and Leninism. The Italian communist left instead still identified as Leninists; Bordiga said: \"All this work of demolishing opportunism and \"deviationism\" (Lenin: \"What Is To Be Done?\") is today the basis of party activity. The party follows revolutionary tradition and experiences in this work during these periods of revolutionary reflux and the proliferation of opportunist theories which had as their violent and inflexible opponents Marx, Engels, Lenin and the Italian Left.\". Paul Mattick continues in the council communist tradition which begun by the Dutch–German left and so is also critical of Leninism. Contemporary left-communist organisations, such as the Internationalist Communist Tendency and the International Communist Current, view Lenin as an important and influential theorist, but remain critical of Leninism as political praxis. The Bordigist ideology of the International Communist Party follow Bordiga's strict adherence to Leninism. The recent communisation current has been influenced by left communism and is critical of Lenin and Leninism, being more ideologically aligned with the Dutch–German left than the Italian left, wherein the theorist of communisation Gilles Dauvé criticised Leninism as a \"by-product of Kautskyism\".\n\nIn \"The Soviet Union Versus Socialism\" (1986), Noam Chomsky argued that Stalinism was a logical extension of Leninism, and not an ideological deviation from Lenin's policies. It resulted in collectivization and enforced the law with a police state, functions of the state continually supported with a totalitarian political ideology.\n\n\n\n\n\nWorks by Vladimir Lenin:\n\nOther thematic links:\n"}
{"id": "21135681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21135681", "title": "Leyla Şahin v Turkey", "text": "Leyla Şahin v Turkey\n\nLeyla Şahin v. Turkey was a 2004 European Court of Human Rights case brought against Turkey by a medical student challenging a Turkish law which bans wearing the Islamic headscarf at universities and other educational and state institutions. The Court upheld the Turkish law by 16 votes to 1.\n\nŞahin (born in Istanbul in 1973) came from a traditional family of practising Muslims and considered it her religious duty to wear the Islamic headscarf. After studying in Vienna, in 1998 she was a fifth-year student at the faculty of medicine of the University of Istanbul. On 23 February of that year the Vice-Chancellor of the University issued a circular directing that students with beards and students wearing the Islamic headscarf would be refused admission to lectures, courses and tutorials. In March Şahin was denied access to a written examination on one of the subjects she was studying because was wearing the Islamic headscarf. Subsequently the university authorities refused, on the same grounds, to allow her to enrol her in a course, or to admit her to various lectures and a written examination. The university also issued her with a warning for contravening the university's rules on dress and suspended her from the university for a term for taking part in an unauthorised assembly that had gathered to protest against them. All the disciplinary penalties imposed on the applicant were revoked under an amnesty law.\n\nBefore the European Court of Human Rights Şahin claimed that the measures taken against her by the University of Istanbul violated Articles 9 and 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights — respectively the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, and the prohibition of discrimination — stating that the prohibition on wearing the headscarf forced students to choose between education and religion and discriminated between believers and non-believers. She also relied on Articles 8 (the right to privacy) and 10 (freedom of expression).\n\nTalvikki Hoopes argues that the ECHR's decision to uphold the law shows how freedom of religion has been limited by the ECHR's interpretation of Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nIn November 2015, Leyla Şahin became a member of Parliament in Turkey for the conservative AKP party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7158769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7158769", "title": "List of Bishops of Basel", "text": "List of Bishops of Basel\n\nThe beginning of the succession of bishops of Basel is shrouded in legend. The first, St. Pantalus, eludes historical documentation. He is supposed to have been martyred at Cologne with Saint Ursula, who is herself difficult to locate historically.\n\n"}
{"id": "21397591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21397591", "title": "List of Hindu temples in the United Kingdom", "text": "List of Hindu temples in the United Kingdom\n\nThis is a list of Hindu temples in the United Kingdom, sorted by constituent country and then by region.\n\n-See Also: All Hindu Temples in United-Kingdom, their contact details and opening hours \n\n\n-See Also: All Hindu Temples in Newcastle, their contact details and opening hours \n\n\n-See Also: All Hindu Temples in Bolton, their contact details and opening hours \n\n-See Also: All Hindu Temples in Liverpool, their contact details and opening hours \n\n-See Also: All Hindu Temples in Manchester, their contact details and opening hours \n\n\n-See Also: All Hindu Temples in Preston, their contact details and opening hours \n\n-See Also: All Hindu Temples in West_Midlands, their contact details and opening hours \n\n\n-See Also: All Hindu Temples in Birmingham, their contact details and opening hours \n\n-See Also: All Hindu Temples in Dudley, their contact details and opening hours \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"(International Society of Krishna Consciousness - ISKCON)\" \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLewisham (Muruhan kovil)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9409363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9409363", "title": "List of Maya gods and supernatural beings", "text": "List of Maya gods and supernatural beings\n\nName list of Maya gods and supernatural beings playing a role in the Classic (200–1000 CE), Post-Classic (1000–1539 CE) and Contact Period (1511–1697) Maya religion. The names are mainly taken from the Books of Chilam Balam, Lacandon ethnography, the Madrid Codex, the work of Diego de Landa, and the Popol Vuh. Depending on the source, most names are either Yucatec or K'iche'. The Classic Period names (belonging to the Classic Maya language) are only rarely known with certainty.\n\n\nThe old god of the interior of the earth and of thunder, sky-carrier, fourfold.\nThe jaguar god of the underworld. Also Any of a group of jaguar gods who protected people and communities.\nA sky god. One of the creator deities who participated in the last two attempts at creating humanity.\n\"Ah Bolon Dzacab\" \"Innumerable Generations\", the Lightning god, patron of the harvest and the seeds.\n\nA group of nine underworld gods.\n\n\"Nine Strides\", mentioned in the Books of Chilam Balam and in Classic inscriptions; functions unknown.\nThe god of war, violence and sacrifice.\n\nA god of mountains and earthquakes. He was a son of Vucub Caquix and Chimalmat.\n\nA creator god.\n\nBat monsters.\n\nThe Bacab of the north, associated with the color white, and the Muluc years. Son of Itzamna and Ixchel.\n\nThe god of storms and rain, enemy of Camazotz\n\nA fish god and the patron deity of fishermen.\nA group of four Chorti rain gods who live in lakes and make rain clouds from the water in them. As with the Bacabs, ach of the rain gods was associated with a cardinal direction. Chiccan was also the name of a day in the Tzolkin cycle of the calendar.\nA god of medicine and healing.\nA giant who was, by Vucub Caquix, the mother of Cabrakan and Zipacna.\n\nA god of death who lived in Metnal.\nGoddess of the Bees.\nAn eclipse deity.\n\nThe god of thunder. Brother of Cakulha.\n\nEk Chuaj, the \"black war chief\" was the patron god of warriors and merchants. He was depicted carrying a bag over his shoulder. In art, he was a dark-skinned man with circles around his eyes, a scorpion tail and dangling lower lip.\n\nThe gods I, II, and III, that is, the three patron deities or triad of the Palenque kingdom, made up of GI a sea deity with a shell ear, GII a baby lightning god (god K), and GIII the jaguar god of fire, also patron of the number seven.\nA feathered snake god and creator. The depiction of the feathered serpent deity is present in other cultures of Mesoamerica. Gukumatz of the K'iche' Maya is closely related to the god Kukulkan of Yucatán and to Quetzalcoatl of the Aztec.\n\nPatron deity of the Lacandon.\nBacab of the east.\nBacab of the south. The \"ek\" element in the name may refer to a star or constellation.\nA god of death and the underworld.\n\"One Howler Monkey\", one of two stepbrothers of the Hero Twins, one of the Howler Monkey Gods and patron of the arts.\n\"One-Death\", a lord of the underworld (Xibalba) who, along with Vucub-Came \"Seven-Death\", killed Hun Hunahpu. They were defeated by the latter's sons the Hero Twins.\nOne of the two stepbrothers of the Hero Twins, one of the Howler Monkey Gods and patron of the arts.\nThe father of the Maya Hero Twins Ixbalanque and Hun-Hunahpu by a virgin. Beheaded in Xibalba, the underworld, by the rulers of Xibalba, Hun Came and Vucub Caquix. His sons found a way through MultiVerse knowledge to save their father and many other folk this time around..\n\"Sole God\", identical with Itzamna as the highest Yucatec god; or a more abstract upper god. *Current research now indicates this 'Maya' symbol is not of Maya origin and rather an invention by a Catholic missionary to more easily introduce one-god concept into the Maya culture.\nOne of the Maya Hero Twins.\nOne of the thirteen creator gods who helped create humanity.\n\n\"One-Maize\", a reading of the name glyph of the Classic Period Tonsured Maize God\n\nA now -bsolete reading of the name glyph of the Classic Period Tonsured Maize God\n\n\"One-Leg\", one of three lightning gods together called \"Heart of the Sky\", and acting as world creators.\n\n\nMountain god of the K'iche'.\n\nAssumed to have been the Classic name of God K (Bolon Dzacab). Title attested for Itzamna, Uaxac Yol, and Amaite Ku; family name; probably not meaning \"food\", but \"powerful\".\nThe solar deity.\nA solar deity represented by a macaw, patron of Izamal (Yucatan).\nThe most commonly depicted god of death. \n\"Feathered Serpent\". Although heavily Mexicanised, Kukulkan has his origins among the Maya of the Classic Period, when he was known as Waxaklahun Ubah Kan (/waʃaklaˈχuːn uːˈɓaχ kän/), the War Serpent, and he has been identified as the Postclassic version of the Vision Serpent of Classic Maya art.\n\nA title of respect meaning \"Grandfather\" and applied to a number of different Maya deities including earth spirits, mountain spirits, and the four Bacabs.\nA god of travelers, merchants, medicine men/women, mischief and fertility, later conflated with Saint Simon and in modern times part of the celebrations surrounding Holy Week.\n\nA creator-destroyer deity, the brother of the death god Kisin (or possibly another earthquake god also known as Kisin). He is the sworn enemy of the world serpent Hapikern and it is said that, in the end of days, he will destroy Hapikern by wrapping him around himself to smother him. In some versions, this will destroy life on Earth. He is related, in some stories, to Usukan, Uyitzin, Yantho and Hapikern, all of whom wish ill to human beings. Brother of Xamaniqinqu, the patron god of travelers and merchants.\n\nOne of the second set of creator gods.\n\nFeathered Snake god and creator. The depiction of the feathered serpent deity is present in other cultures of Mesoamerica. Q'uq'umatz of the K'iche' Maya is closely related to the god Kukulkan of Yucatán and to Quetzalcoatl of the Aztecs.\n\nA hunting god of the Yucatec Maya arguably corresponding, in the Classic period, to an elderly human with deer ears and antlers.\n\nA sky god and one of the creator deities who participated in all three attempts at creating humanity.\nTohil was a patron god of the K'iche', to whom a great temple was erected at the K'iche' capital Q'umarkaj.\n\n\"Straight God\", a mountain god of the Postclassic Manche Ch'ol.\nLegendary ancestral deity, Chiapas.\nA bird being, whose wife is Chimalmat and whose sons are the demonic giants Cabrakan and Zipacna.\n\nThe god of travelers and merchants, who gave offerings to him on the side of roads while traveling.\nOne of the Hero or War Twins and companion to Hunahpu\nA mountain god of the Postclassic Manche Ch'ol.\nA creator god couple which helped create the first humans. They are also the parents of Hun Hunahpu and Vucub Hunahpu. They were called Grandmother of Day, Grandmother of Light and Bearer twice over, begetter twice over and given the titles midwife and matchmaker.\nShe was the daughter of Cuchumaquic, one of the lords of the underworld, Xibalba. She is noted for being the mother of the Hero Twins, Hunahpu and Xbalanque and is sometimes considered to be the Maya goddess associated with the waning moon.\n\nOne of four Mopan \"Grandfathers\" of the earth and chief lightning god.\nAn important rain god at Copán and Quiriguá in the southern Maya area.\nGod of the woods, of wild nature, and of the hunt; invoked before carving out a maize field from the wilderness.\n\nThe Bacab of the west.\nA demonic personification of the earth crust.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1708844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1708844", "title": "List of archbishops of Mechelen-Brussels", "text": "List of archbishops of Mechelen-Brussels\n\nThe Archbishops of Mechelen-Brussels are the head of the Archbishopric of Mechelen-Brussel of the Catholic church in Belgium. It currently encompasses all of Belgium, making them the head of the Roman Catholic faith in the country.\n\nThe current Archbishop is Jozef De Kesel.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7660879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7660879", "title": "List of inventions in the medieval Islamic world", "text": "List of inventions in the medieval Islamic world\n\nThe following is a list of inventions made in the medieval Islamic world, especially during the \"Islamic Golden Age\" (8th to 13th centuries), as well as the late medieval period, especially in the Emirate of Granada and the Ottoman Empire.\nScience and technology in the Islamic world adopted and preserved knowledge and technologies from contemporary and earlier civilizations, including Persia, India, China, and Greco-Roman antiquity, while making a number of improvements and innovations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34504169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34504169", "title": "List of members of the Council of Fifty", "text": "List of members of the Council of Fifty\n\nIn 1844, Joseph Smith, president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, established the Council of Fifty, a Latter Day Saint organization, in order to symbolize and represent a future theocratic or theodemocratic \"Kingdom of God\" on the earth. Following Smith's death, his successor, Brigham Young, as President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), hoped to continue the Council of Fifty in order to create this Kingdom in preparation for the Millennium and the Second Coming of Jesus. The political Kingdom of God, organized around the Council of Fifty, was meant to be a force of peace and order in the midst of this chaos.\n\nFollowing the death of Smith, some members of the council continued on as members of the Council of Fifty, under the leadership of Brigham Young and within The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, while some members left to join or form various other sects in the Latter Day Saint movement.\n\nThis table includes individuals who joined the Council of Fifty prior to the June 27, 1844, under the leadership of Joseph Smith, president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (as named in 1844). However, all the included individuals are regarded as early leaders of the church by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (now the Community of Christ) and other Latter Day Saint sects.\n\nThis table includes individuals were joined the Council of Fifty following after June 27, 1844 and under the leadership of Brigham Young, president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Generally they are only regarded as early leaders of the church by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. \n"}
{"id": "9967170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9967170", "title": "Lords of the Night", "text": "Lords of the Night\n\nIn Mesoamerican mythology the Lords of the Night () are a set of nine gods who each ruled over every ninth night forming a calendrical cycle. Each lord was associated with a particular fortune, bad or good, that was an omen for the night that they ruled over.\n\nThe lords of the night are known in both the Aztec and Maya calendar, although the specific names of the Maya Night Lords are unknown.\n\nThe glyphs corresponding to the night gods are known and mayanists identify them with labels G1 to G9, the G series. Generally, these glyphs are frequently used with a fixed glyph coined F. The only Mayan light lord that has been identified is the God G9,Pauahtun the Aged Quadripartite God.\n\nThe existence of a 9 nights cycle in Mesoamerican calendrics was first discovered in 1904 by Eduard Seler. The Aztec names of the Deities are known because their names are glossed in the Codex Telleriano-Remensis and Codex Tudela. Seler argued that the 9 lords each corresponded to one of the nine levels of the under world and ruled the corresponding hour of the night time, this argument has not generally been accepted, since the evidence suggests that the lord of a given night ruled over that entire night. Zelia Nuttall argued that the Nine Lords of the Night represented the nine moons of the Lunar year. The cycle of the Nine Lords of the Night held special relation to the Mesoamerican ritual calendar of 260-days and nights or -night which includes exactly 29 groups of 9 nights each, and also, approximately, 9 vague lunations of 29 days each.\n\nThe Nine Lords of the Night in Aztec mythology are:\n"}
{"id": "23093567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23093567", "title": "Majdal Anjar", "text": "Majdal Anjar\n\nMajdal Anjar (Arabic: مجدل عنجر; also transliterated Majdel Anjar or Majdal 3njar) is a village of Beqaa Governorate, Lebanon. Majdal Anjar is an overwhelmingly Sunni Muslim town.\n\nMajdal Anjar is one of the Bekaa Valley towns of the East. It is located on the international road linking Beirut and Damascus. It is exactly located at the borders of Lebanon and Syria which is referred to the \"Masnaa\". About 55 km from the Capital of Lebanon and 57 kilometers from Damascus. Rise of 970 m above sea level. An area of 25642775 square meters. A population of about 25000 people. It borders Sawiri from east and south, Anjar from north and Dakwi and Rawda from west\nEach year this village grows more expand towards the north side.\n\nThe most important crops are cereals, including: wheat, barley, lentil, grapes, potatoes, beets, nuts, peaches apricots, cherry, pomegranate, almonds, olives, raspberries, apples, onions, tomatoes, zucchini, cabbage, cauliflower, watermelon, lettuce, radishes, parsley, Mint, garlic, beans, kidney beans, etc.\n\nNothing more than a simple primitive industry, and food industry, including bread, sugar, flour, and the construction industry. A sugar factory was founded in 1958 in Majdal Anjar, and that was an important turning point in terms of leading to the evolution of this remarkable plant in the cultivation of sugar beets and the sugar industry.\n\nThe town of Majdal Anjar, is significant, as it is a complex interaction between Lebanon and the Arab states, making it a remarkable trade center in Bekaa. There are many custom offices along the border region, as well as the numerous shops and markets located along the international road. This prompts trade, plants industry, clothing, electronic parts importer, antiques, and so much more.\n\nThe castle of the town has attracted many tourists throughout the years, Arabs and foreigners, in addition to the arranged school trips from various regions of Lebanon.\n\nThe name of Majdal Laramie means \"the tower\" or \"high place\" or \"supervisor of the palace.\" The \"Anjar\" shared the \"Ain\" and \"njar\" means \"the moving River\". It can also mean \"lion's roar\" or \"shocking.\" This town was named by old Egyptians as \"Tel el-Amarna,\" (The moon rises) and the Greeks as \"Khalqays\" or \"Kheis\" means copper. Also, it called by David King of Judah as \"sawba \" which means \"the place\".Then this town was established by the Phoenicians under the title \"Majdal Anjar' or 'Honor House.\"\n\nMajdal Anjar has a great significance in the old history since it is located at the entrance of the city of Damascus and what surrounds it ( valley and mountain-walled great hills).\n\nThe town contains an old mosque called \"Omar bin al-Khattab,\" built by Walid bin Abdul Malik bin Marwan. Majdal Anjar is famous by its ancient cathedral, called today \"the castle\" and located on the flat plateau called \"Al Hosen\".\n\nMajdel Anjar I is a very large site, northwest of the village where Jesuit archaeologist, Auguste Bergy found numerous flint tools that dated to various periods. He identified a Heavy Neolithic assemblage of the Qaraoun culture that consisted of chisels, axes cores and other debris.\n\nMajdal Anjar II or Tell Majdal Anjar is north of the village near the road. Lorraine Copeland commented that \"sackfulls\" of neolithic flints could be recovered from the area when she visited, including large cutting tools. The tell shows considerable deposits with finds consisting of pottery sherds, flints and part of a stoneware bowl. Also found were scapers, burins, trapezoidal axes and segmented sickles with fine denticulation. Pottery was both fine and coarse featuring red washing, burnishing and incisions. Finds were similar to middle neolithic levels of Byblos and Ard Tlaili.\n"}
{"id": "4035676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4035676", "title": "Mary Help of Christians Academy (Warren, Michigan)", "text": "Mary Help of Christians Academy (Warren, Michigan)\n\nMary Help of Christians Academy was a small, Traditionalist Catholic K-12 school located in Warren, Michigan. It was founded by Donald Sanborn in 1986 with the purchase of a former Montessori school campus. From a few families it expanded to around 200 students at its peak of enrollment.\n\nInternal disagreement between parents and school management (then including Robert Neville) in 1999 caused a number of families to leave. The school's teachers were dismissed from their positions and replaced with nuns from Robert McKenna's \"Sisters of the Immaculate Heart of Mary.\" Enrollment continued to decline and the school was closed in 2004. The campus was sold to a local Eastern Orthodox church.\n\n"}
{"id": "18011002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18011002", "title": "Meshulach", "text": "Meshulach\n\nA meshulach () (plural: \"meshulachim\") or SHaDaR (, acronym for SHelichei DeRabonan\" - an emissary of the rabbis; according to others, the acronym is SHelichah DeRachmanah\" - an emissary from God) is a rabbinical emissary sent to collect charity funds (\"Halukka\"). In the original meaning it was for the rescue of the Yishuv haYashan of Eretz Yisrael, the funds were distributed by the \"Kollelim\" in form of \"Halukka\".\n\nIn recent times, the term has come to mean any charity collector for a Jewish organization. Often an individual meshulach may operate as an independent contractor for several different organizations, taking a portion of the proceeds as profit. The percentage retained by the meshulach is sometimes as high as 49%.\n\nIn response to the public perception of fraudulent meshulachim, some communities (for example, Baltimore) have appointed rabbis or panels to investigate meshulachim and issue them certificates to attest for the validity of their cause.\n\nOriginally only trustworthy \"meshulachim\" were employed. A list of the best-known \"meshulachim\", with their dates and spheres of activity, is provided here:\n\n"}
{"id": "7610942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7610942", "title": "Messianic Jewish theology", "text": "Messianic Jewish theology\n\n<onlyinclude>\nMessianic Jewish theology is the study of God and Scripture from the perspective of Messianic Judaism, a religious movement that fuses elements of Judaism and Christianity and claims to be a legitimate form of Judaism.\n\n\n</onlyinclude>\n\nMessianic believers commonly hold the תנ\"ך (Tanakh; Hebrew Bible), to be divinely inspired. The הברית החדשה (\"Brit Chadasha\"; New Testament) is also considered to also be divinely inspired.\n ‣ Gospel of מתתיהו (\"Mattityahu\"; \"Gift of God\")/מתי (\"Mattay\")/\"Matthew\",\nDavid H. Stern has produced a Messianic Jewish version of the Bible called the Complete Jewish Bible.\n\n\"Torah\" refers to the first five books of the Bible. Torah reading in Hebrew is one qualifier for a congregation to be considered authentically Messianic. Individuals are encouraged to engage in private and corporate study of Torah for instruction in doctrine and righteousness.\n\nThe Torah contains the 613 commandments of the Covenant between God and Israel. Some Messianic congregations and synagoges hold that for Jews, whether they are Messianic or not, Torah observance is covenantally obligatory, for Gentiles it is not.\n\nMany messianic believers also look to Jewish texts and laws, such as the Babylonian Talmud and other rabbinic commentary, for historical insight into an understanding of the biblical texts. However, much like Karaite Judaism, some Messianics do not accept rabbinic commentary and traditional laws as authoritative where it seems to contradict the Scriptures of the Messianic canon. This, however, is debated and varies from congregation to congregation, or ministry to ministry, and perhaps even issue-to-issue.\n\nAlthough there is much debate with regard to acceptance of the Babylonian Talmud, there does exist a small minority who adhere to the teachings of the Sages and oral teachings held in the Talmud and consider them authoritative. The main difference between them and mainstream Judaism remains the belief that Yeshua is the Messiah. These groups consider Yeshua's command, \"The Scribes and the Pharisees sit in the seat of Moses, all of which they command you to do, do, but do not do as they do.\" (Matt 23:2-3) to be a proclamation of Torah authority to the Pharisaic Jewish community. One of the great differences between them and most Messianics is their belief of non-separation from the Jewish community and the authority of the Rabbis. Although they hold the New Testament teachings as authoritative, there remain many details in Biblical Law which violate oral tradition, as well as the written Torah. Because of this, there remains for them another line of division between them and mainstream Judaism.\n\nMany Messianic congregations use traditional Jewish rabbinic commentaries such as the Mishnah and Gemara to gain historical insight into biblical teachings and passages and to better comprehend the environment that the first-century New Testament writers would have been familiar with.\n\nMessianic commentaries on various books of the Bible, with the exception of a handful of commentaries written on the Torah and New Testament texts, such as Matthew, Acts of the Apostles, Epistle to the Romans, Epistle to the Galatians and Epistle to the Hebrews, can be few and far between.\n\nDavid H. Stern has released a one-volume \"Jewish New Testament Commentary\", but it overlooks many of the issues of composition, history, date and setting, and only provides select explanatory notes from a Messianic Jewish point of view.\n\nOther noted New Testament commentary authors include Joseph Shulam, who has written commentaries on Acts, Romans, and Galatians, Tim Hegg of TorahResource, who has written commentary on Romans, Galatians, Hebrews, and is presently examining Matthew, Daniel Thomas Lancaster, who has written extensively for the First Fruits of Zion Torah Club series, and Stuart Sacks, author of \"Hebrews Through a Hebrews' Eyes.\"\n\n\"Many Messianic Jewish believers consider rabbinic commentaries such as the Mishnah and the Talmud dangerous,\" says Joshua Isaac Walters \"When we begin to study and observe Torah to become like Messiah, there are pitfalls we must avoid. One such pitfall is the study of Mishnah and Talmud - Rabbinic traditional Law. There are many people and congregations that place a great emphasis on rabbinic legal works, such as the Mishnah and the Talmud in search of their Hebrew roots. People are looking to the rabbis for answers on how to keep God’s commands, but if one looks into the Mishnah and does what it says, he or she is not a follower of the Messiah. Or, if one looks into the Talmud and does what it says, he or she is not a follower of the Messiah – he or she is a follower of the rabbis because Rabbi Yeshua, the Messiah, is not quoted there. Rabbinic Judaism is not Messianic Judaism. Rabbinic Judaism is not founded in Messiah. Rabbinic Judaism, for the most part, is founded in the yeast – the teachings of the Pharisees. Yeshua’s teachings and the discipleship that He brought His students through was not Rabbinic Judaism. There is a real danger in Rabbinics. There is a real danger in Mishnah and Talmud. No one involved in Rabbinics has ever come out on the other side more righteous than when he or she entered. He or she may look “holier than thou” – but they do not have the life changing experience clearly represented in the lives of the believers of the Messianic communities of the first century.\"\n\nWhile many in the Messianic movement, especially those who have come out of Protestant churches, have a \"sola scriptura\" approach to Torah, Tanakh and the \"B'rit Chadashah\", it is incorrect to assume that all Messianics share this rejection of oral Torah. There are those who look to the Talmud and rabbinical interpretations of Israel for guidance in a fuller expression of obedience to Torah. If Messianic Judaism is indeed a Judaism, it stands to reason that it shares community with all Jews in its acceptance of standards and interpretations. Messianics who honor halakhah point out that Deuteronomy 17 instructs not only obedience to Torah, but also to the Judges we go to for Torah interpretation, to \"do everything they direct you to do. Act according to the law they teach you and the decisions they give you. Do not turn aside from what they tell you, to the right or to the left.\" Yeshua backs up the Torah teachers among the Pharisees in this authority in Matthew 23, \"The teachers of the law and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat. So you must obey them and do everything they tell you.\" \n\nIn light of this, both the Jerusalem Council, and the Messianic Jewish Rabbinical Council have begun publishing halakha.\n\nMessianic Judaism has as a core teaching that Israel remains Israel and the Nations remain the Nations, Jews remain Jews and Gentiles remain Gentiles. Jews are those who are born of a Jewish mother or have undergone halakhic conversion to Judaism. An exception is also made for those born of Jewish fathers if and only if the individual claims Jewish identity, similar to the Reform position.\n\nThe Jerusalem Council, a Messianic halakhic body, maintains that Israel is defined as a people group of members of the covenant God made with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; chosen by God from the nations, and includes their descendants.\"\n\nThe \"People of God\" is a larger set which includes Israel, but also includes Gentiles in the Christian Churches as well as Messianic Gentiles. Thus, a rabbinical Jew is part of \"Israel\", a Baptist is part of \"Ἐκκλησία\" (\"Ekklesia\") and a Messianic Jew is both \"Israel\" and \"Ekklesia\". Further, rabbinical Jew, Baptist, and Messianic Jew, both Israel and Ekklesia, are \"People of God.\" Messianic Judaism sees itself as the \"link,\" the point of the graft between Israel and \"Ekklesia\".\n\nThe issue of the relationship of Israel to \"Ekklesia\", especially in terms of Covenant, is highly important to Messianics. While Jews are considered within an irrevocable Covenant given at Mt. Sinai, gentiles are not. A Messianic Jew must keep Covenant, but a Methodist need not. Those Gentiles who have joined Messianic congregations take up Torah observance, some more than others, but do so voluntarily, either out of love for God or simply as part of being in the community. Jews and Gentiles are seen as completely equal before God, as \"one new man\" in their belief in Yeshua, but this union is not a homogenization but more analogous to the union of husband and wife in marriage, where differentiation is preserved even within unity.\n\nThus, Messianic Judaism does not require Gentile conversion to Judaism, and in fact discourages it. However, the UMJC makes exceptions for those rare individuals who identify in a stronger way than simply to be \"grafted on.\" The reasoning for this variance is as follows: While Titus may have been the norm in the epistles, a Gentile not converted to Judaism, Paul nevertheless made an exception for Timothy, whom he circumcised and brought under the Covenant. (The statement of the Messianic Jewish Rabbinical Council regarding Conversion ) These converts to Judaism do not in any way have a higher status within Messianic Judaism than the gentiles attached to the communities.\n\nA statement on circumcision is provided by the Jerusalem Council: \"...although circumcision is not a requirement for positional right standing with HaShem, it is a requirement for those who are Abraham's seed, and who desire to \"walk blameless.\"\n\nThe more mainstream Messianic congregations adhere to a strongly halakhic definition for God's people. In these groups, Gentiles are colleagues and are strongly encouraged, but not required, to keep the Torah.\n\nIssues of creation and eschatology are not central to Messianic Judaism with the following exception: the idea that one age is ending, as the fullness of the Gentiles has been reached, and the next age beginning, where we shall see the fullness of Israel. The wording is a reference to ,\n\n\"Again I ask: Did [the Jews] stumble so as to fall beyond recovery? Not at all! Rather, because of their transgression, salvation has come to the Gentiles to make Israel envious. But if their transgression means riches for the world, and their loss means riches for the Gentiles, how much greater riches will their fullness bring! ... For if their rejection is the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance be but life from the dead? ... I do not want you to be ignorant of this mystery, brothers, so that you may not be conceited: Israel has experienced a hardening in part until the full number of the Gentiles has come in. And so all Israel will be saved.\"\n\nThe \"fullness of the Gentiles\" might be said to refer to the Great Commission, which is complete. The rebirth of the nation of Israel, the re-establishment of Jerusalem as its capital, the return of Jews from Russia, \"the nation to the north,\" and the return of Jews worldwide to greater observance are all seen as signs of the beginning of the age of Israel. Messianics believe that when the fullness of Israel is reached, the Messiah will return and the world will see the resurrection of the dead prior to a final judgement.\n\nTraditional Christianity affirms that the Torah is the word of God, though most Christians deny that all of the laws of the Pentateuch directly apply to themselves as Christians. The New Testament suggests that Yeshua established a new covenant relationship between God and his people (; ) and this new covenant speaks of the Torah being written upon the heart. Various passages such as , , and , as well as various examples of Torah observance in the New Testament, are cited by Messianics in suggesting that the Torah was not and could not have been abolished.\n\nMany Messianics believe that it is absurd to assume that any of the 613 Mitzvot would be abolished simply because certain commandments are or are not repeated or reaffirmed individually in the New Testament, proclaiming the belief that such was never the job of the Apostles in the first place, and that the Torah has always been immutable. Messianics sometimes challenge Christians by arguing that if they believe Jesus is the Messiah, then according to the Torah itself Yeshua could not have changed the Torah (Deuteronomy 13).\n\nAs with Orthodox Judaism, capital punishment and animal sacrifice are not practiced because there are strict Biblical conditions on how these are to be practiced, requiring a functioning Temple in Jerusalem with its Levite priesthood. When the power of capital punishment is available, often its exercise is only after exhausting loopholes in Torah which are used to set a suspect free. According to the Talmud, capital punishment in Jewish law always had to lean on merciful alternatives to execution and make every effort not to give the strictest punishment within the confines of the Torah: \"A Sanhedrin which kills once in seven years is considered murderous. Rabbi Elazar ben Azariah said: once in seventy years. Rabbi Akiva and Rabbi Tarfon said: if we had been in the Sanhedrin, no one would have ever been killed.\"\n\nMost Messianics believe that observance of the Torah brings about sanctification, not salvation, which was to be produced only by the Messiah.\n\n\nPublications, 1991.\n [Category:Judaism]]"}
{"id": "54819096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54819096", "title": "Mikagura-uta", "text": "Mikagura-uta\n\nThe Mikagura-uta (みかぐらうた, \"The Songs for the Service\") is one of the three Tenrikyo scriptures, along with the \"Ofudesaki\" and the \"Osashizu\". It was composed by the foundress of Tenrikyo, Miki Nakayama, from 1866 to 1875, and revised to its current version in 1882.\n\nThe Mikagura-uta is the text of the Service (\"otsutome\"), a religious ritual that has a central place in Tenrikyo. During the Service, the text to the \"Mikagura-uta\" is sung together with dance movements and musical accompaniment.\n\n\"Mikagura-uta\" can be subdivided into three sections. \"Mi\" is an honorific prefix. The word \"kagura\" is a generic term for any performance for a deity or deities in Japan. Although \"kagura\" are usually associated with Shinto shrines, there is also historical evidence of their association with Shugendō and Buddhist schools such as Shingon.\nThe word \"uta\" simply means \"song\" or \"songs.\"\n\nIt is unknown when “Mikagura-uta” became the standardized title. During the years from 1867 and 1887, a variety of titles were used, with the most common being “\"Juni-kudari o-tsutome (no) uta\"” (the Twelve Songs of the Service). The earliest evidence of the current title dates to October 1888, when the songs was first formally published by Tenrikyo as “御かぐら歌.” However, since the \"kanji\" character 御 could potentially be read either as \"\"O\" and \"On\" in addition to \"Mi\",\" it still cannot be said with absolute certainty when “Mikagura-uta” became the standard title (in the past it was referred to sometimes as \"Okagura-uta\").\n\nThe original manuscript of the \"Mikagura-uta\" is lost; it was either confiscated by the authorities or it was connected to persecution and interference.\n\nThe first time the title of the Mikagura-uta took its current written form (only in \"hiragana\") was in 1928, when the scripture was distributed to all churches to commemorate Shozen Nakayama’s marriage.\n\nTenrikyo Church Headquarters published an English translation of the \"Mikagura-uta\" in 1967.\n\nThe Mikagura-uta is a scripture that is meant to be sung, danced with hand and feet movements, and accompanied by nine musical instruments. The scripture is sung in the style of a Japanese popular traditional song. The fifth section of the Mikagura-uta, the Twelve Songs, takes the form of a counting song, each song starting from one to ten. Nakayama Miki has been said to describe the nature of the counting song as \"like children playing shuttlecock during the New Year's season, singing 'One, Two.'\" The scripture was originally written in Japanese cursive syllabary (\"kana\").\n\nAccording to Tenrikyo followers, the Kagura Service (\"kagura-zutome\" かぐらづとめ) \"reenacts God's creation of humankind\" around the spot humankind was conceived (called the \"Jiba\"), located at Tenrikyo Church Headquarters in Tenri, Nara. Therefore, the Kagura Service can only be performed in one place. However, the songs are also sung during the Seated Service, which substitutes for the Kagura Service at all other church ceremonies, and which also can be performed individually or in a group.\n\nIn the autumn of 1866, Nakayama taught section one, which was originally worded, \nIn 1882, Nakayama altered the wording to the text used today: \n\nFour years later, in 1870, Nakayama taught section two, which begins with the line,\n\nThen in 1875, Nakayama taught section three, which was originally worded,\nIn 1882, she altered the wording to the text used today: \n\nIn 1870, Nakayama taught section four, the \"Eight Verses of the Yorozuyo\" (よろづよ八首), in 1870. This was the last section to be composed.\n\nThis section, known as the \"Twelve Songs,\" was composed between January and August 1867. From 1867 to 1870, Nakayama taught her adherents the melodies and movements to accompany her texts.\n\nTenrikyo scholar Ueda Yoshinaru (上田嘉成) has suggested themes for each song:\n\nOne of the first recorded instances of performing the Mikagura-uta in public can be found in \"Shinmei Ashizu no Michi\" (\"The History of Shinmei Ashizu Fellowship\"):\n\n\"Some 30 to 50 followers gathered to do the Service of the Twelve Songs, the \"Teodori,\" every night at the fellowship in Honden (Osaka). They danced enthusiastically by beating the \"taiko,\" whose drumhead was worn out within three months. It was so lively that they sometimes had neighbors complaining. So they practiced the \"Teodori\" in vacant lots or on the Kunitsu Bridge near the fellowship. They made strenuous efforts in holding lessons until dawn...When members went to the house of a sick person to pray, they gathered with the musical instruments for the service. Before performing the service, they purified themselves with water ablutions. And they danced the Mikagura-uta softly beside the sick so as not to stir the slightest vibration on the \"tatami\" mat. They danced three times in the morning, three times in the afternoon, and three times in the evening. In this way the pouring of water and dancing were repeated.\"\n\nAnother account by Masui Rin, who attended to Nakayama Miki towards the end of her life, goes:\n\n\"We made a 'three-day and three-night prayer' to God to save a person. There were six followers for the \"Otefuri,\" two singers (\"jikata\"), eight or nine people in total visited the sick person and danced the Mikagura-uta. Saving a person through the Mikagura-uta was very popular and common.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "6728421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6728421", "title": "O-Acetylpsilocin", "text": "O-Acetylpsilocin\n\n\"O\"-Acetylpsilocin (also known as psilacetin, 4-acetoxy-DMT, or 4-AcO-DMT) is a synthetically produced psychoactive drug and has been suggested by David Nichols to be a potentially useful alternative to psilocybin for pharmacological studies, as they are both believed to be prodrugs of psilocin. However, some users report that \"O\"-acetylpsilocin's subjective effects differ from that of psilocybin and psilocin. It is the acetylated form of the psilocybin mushroom alkaloid psilocin and is a lower homolog of 4-AcO-MET, 4-AcO-DET, 4-AcO-MiPT and 4-AcO-DiPT.\n\n\"O\"-Acetylpsilocin (psilacetin) and several other esters of psilocin were patented on January 16, 1963 by Sandoz Ltd. via Albert Hofmann & Franz Troxler. Despite this, psilacetin remains a psychedelic with a limited history of use. It is theorized to be a prodrug for psilocin, as is psilocybin, which is naturally occurring in various mushrooms. This is because the aromatic acetyl moiety on the 4th position is subject to deacetylation by acidic conditions such as those found in the stomach. Psilacetin is \"O\"-acetylated psilocin, whereas psilocybin is \"O\"-phosphorylated.\n\n\"O\"-Acetylpsilocin can be obtained by acetylation of psilocin under alkaline or strongly acidic conditions. It is a synthetic compound. However, it is believed to be a prodrug of psilocin, which is natural and occurs in many mushrooms along with psilocybin. \"O\"-Acetylpsilocin is more resistant than psilocin to oxidation under basic conditions due to its acetoxy group. While \"O\"-acetylpsilocin is not well researched (considered by many to be a research chemical, as opposed to psilocin and psilocybin), it is not as difficult to produce as psilocybin, and may be an appropriate substitute for psilocybin in psychedelic research because of their similar mechanism of action.\n\nIn the body \"O\"-acetylpsilocin is deacetylated to psilocin by deacetylases/acetyltransferases during first pass metabolism and during subsequent passes through the liver (evident as psilacetin is also active via parenteral routes of ingestion).\n\nClaims of subjective differences in effect between the acetylated and not acetylated forms of psilocin differ: some users report that \"O\"-acetylpsilocin lasts slightly longer while others report that it lasts for a considerably shorter time. Many users report less body load and nausea compared to psilocin. Some users find that the visual distortions produced by \"O\"-acetylpsilocin more closely resemble those produced by DMT than those produced by psilocin. These differences could be possible if psilacetin is active itself and not merely as a prodrug. Despite this, there have been no controlled clinical studies to distinguish the effects between psilacetin, psilocin, and psilocybin.\n\n\"O\"-Acetylpsilocin can be considered an analog of psilocin making it a schedule 9 prohibited substance in Australia under the Poisons Standard (October 2015). A Schedule 9 substance is a substance which may be abused or misused, the manufacture, possession, sale or use of which should be prohibited by law except when required for medical or scientific research, or for analytical, teaching or training purposes with approval of Commonwealth and/or State or Territory Health Authorities.\n\n\"O\"-Acetylpsilocin is ambiguously legal for use as a lab reagent or research chemical; however, it is an acetate ester of psilocin, meaning it would be considered Schedule I under the Federal Analogue Act if sold for human consumption.\n\n\"O\"-Acetylpsilocin is illegal in the UK under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971.\n\n\"O\"-Acetylpsilocin is illegal in Italy as it is an ester of a prohibited substance.\n\nThe Riksdag added 4-AcO-DMT to under \"swedish schedule I\" (\"substances, plant materials and fungi which normally do not have medical use\" ) as of January 25, 2017, published by Medical Products Agency (MPA) in regulation \"HSLF-FS 2017:1\" listed as 4-acetoxi-N,N-dimetyltryptamin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2692197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2692197", "title": "Passover Seder plate", "text": "Passover Seder plate\n\nThe Passover Seder plate (, \"ke'ara\") is a special plate containing symbolic foods eaten or displayed at the Passover Seder.\n\nEach of the six items arranged on the plate has special significance to the retelling of the story of Passover — the exodus from Egypt — which is the focus of this ritual meal. A seventh symbolic item used during the meal — the three matzos — is not considered part of the seder plate proper.\n\nThe six traditional items on the Seder Plate are as follows:\n\n\n\nMany decorative and artistic Seder plates sold in Judaica stores have pre-formed spaces for inserting the various symbolic foods.\nThe sixth symbolic item on the Seder table is a plate of three whole matzot, which are stacked and separated from each other by cloths or napkins. The middle matzah will be broken and half of it put aside for the \"afikoman\". The top and other half of the middle matzot will be used for the \"hamotzi\" (blessing over bread), and the bottom matzah will be used for the \"korech\" (Hillel sandwich).\n\nA bowl of salt water, which is used for the first \"dipping\" of the Seder, is not traditionally part of the Seder Plate, but is placed on the table beside it. However, it sometimes is used as one of the six items, omitting chazeret.\n\n\nOver the years, Pesach has often been used as an occasion for political or social commentary. This was often the case when the departure of Soviet Jews was compared to the departure of the Jews from Egypt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "286917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286917", "title": "Penn &amp; Teller", "text": "Penn &amp; Teller\n\nPenn & Teller (Penn Jillette and Teller) are American magicians and entertainers who have performed together since the late 1970s, noted for their ongoing act that combines elements of comedy with magic.\n\nThe duo has been featured in numerous stage and television shows such as \"\", and they currently perform in Las Vegas at The Rio, the longest running headlining act in Las Vegas history. Penn Jillette serves as the act's orator and raconteur. Teller generally does not speak while performing, and instead communicates through mime and nonverbals, though his voice can occasionally be heard during their live shows and television appearances. Besides magic, the pair has become associated with the advocacy of scientific skepticism, and libertarianism, particularly through their television show \"\".\n\nPenn Jillette and Teller were introduced to each other by Weir Chrisemer, and performed their first show together at the Minnesota Renaissance Festival on August 19, 1975. From the late 1970s through 1981, Penn, Teller, and Chrisemer performed as a trio called \"The Asparagus Valley Cultural Society\" which played in Petaluma, California at the Phoenix Theater. Chrisemer helped to develop some bits that continued, most notably Teller's \"Shadows\" trick, which involves a single red rose. The group disbanded in 1981 after Chrisemer quit show business, leaving Penn Jillette and Teller to work as a pair on a show called \"Mrs. Lonsberry's Seance of Horror\".\nBy 1985, Penn & Teller were receiving positive reviews for their Off Broadway show and Emmy Award-winning PBS special, \"Penn & Teller Go Public\". In 1987, they began the first of three Broadway runs. The same year, they appeared as three-card Monte scam artists in the music video for \"It's Tricky\" by Run-DMC. Through the late 1980s and early 1990s, the duo made numerous television appearances on \"Late Night with David Letterman\" and \"Saturday Night Live\", as well as \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\", \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\", \"Today\", and others.\n\nPenn & Teller had national tours throughout the 1990s, gaining critical praise. They have also made television guest appearances on \"Babylon 5\" (as the comedy team Rebo and Zooty), \"The Drew Carey Show\", a few episodes of \"Hollywood Squares\" from 1998 until 2004, ABC's \"Muppets Tonight\", FOX's \"The Bernie Mac Show\", an episode of the game show \"Fear Factor\" on NBC, NBC's \"The West Wing\", in a two-part episode of the final season of ABC's \"Home Improvement\" in 1998, four episodes during season 1 of \"Sabrina, the Teenage Witch\" in 1996, NBC's \"Las Vegas\", and Fox's \"The Simpsons\" episodes \"Hello Gutter, Hello Fadder\" and \"The Great Simpsina\" and the \"Futurama\" film \"\" in 2009. They appeared in the music video for Katy Perry's 2009 single \"Waking Up in Vegas\", in which they are thrown out of a hotel room by Perry.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2010, their Showtime television show \"\" took a skeptical look at psychics, religion, the pseudoscientific, conspiracy theories, and the paranormal. It has featured critical segments on gun control, astrology, Feng Shui, environmental issues, PETA, weight loss, the Americans with Disabilities Act, and the war on drugs.\n\nThe pair have written several books about magic, including \"Penn & Teller's Cruel Tricks For Dear Friends\", \"Penn & Teller's How to Play with Your Food\", and \"Penn & Teller's How to Play in Traffic\". Since 2001, Penn & Teller have performed in Las Vegas at the Rio All Suite Hotel and Casino.\n\nPenn Jillette hosted a weekday one-hour talk show on Infinity Broadcasting's Free FM radio network from January 3, 2006, to March 2, 2007, with cohost Michael Goudeau. He also hosted the game show \"Identity\", which debuted on December 18, 2006, on NBC.\n\nTheir television series \"Penn & Teller Tell a Lie\" premiered on the Discovery Channel on October 5, 2011.\n\nSince 2011, Penn & Teller have hosted \"\", originally on ITV, moving to The CW in 2015.\n\nPenn & Teller credit magician and skeptical activist James Randi for their own careers. During an interview at TAM! 2012, Penn stated that Randi's book \"Flim-Flam!\" was an early influence on him, and said that \"If not for Randi there would not be Penn & Teller as we are today.\"\n\nJillette has told interviewer Larry King and Seth Meyers that a big part of the duo's success and longevity is due to them never having been close friends. They respect each other as business partners and enjoy working together, but have little in common besides magic. As a result of their drastically different lifestyles and interests, they rarely socialize or interact when not working.\n\nHowever, Jillette has also said, in a video where he and Teller responded to questions from members of Reddit and also in a video interview for Big Think, that while they share few interests outside magic, Teller is his best friend and his children treat him as a close relative. He stated that while most entertainment partnerships such as Martin and Lewis and Lennon–McCartney were based on a deep affection for each other that lends to a certain volatility when things go wrong, their business relationship and friendship is based on a respect for each other. Teller has made similar statements. In an NPR interview, Teller said their disagreements often lead to better artistic decisions because they bring out new ideas and expand the range of discussion.\n\nOn April 5, 2013, Penn & Teller were honored with the 2,494th star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for their achievement in the category of Live Performance. Their star is a few steps away from the star of Harry Houdini and down the street from The Magic Castle.\n\nIn 2003, Penn & Teller received the Emperor Has No Clothes Award, which celebrates \"plain speaking\" on the shortcomings of religion by public figures. In 2005, they were awarded the Richard Dawkins Award, an award given to people who raised public consciousness of atheism in the previous year.\n\nPenn & Teller material varies from light-hearted gags such as graphic tricks and clever pranks to tackling issues through political satire and by exposing frauds. Many of their effects rely heavily on shock appeal and fantasy violence, although presented in a humorous manner. Some of their more daring tricks include Teller hanging upside-down over a cushion of spikes in a straitjacket, Teller submerged in a huge container of water, and Teller being run over by an 18-wheel tractor-trailer. Penn & Teller will often present tricks that they initially appear to have botched, in the \"trick gone wrong\" vein.\n\nSometimes, the pair will claim to reveal a secret of how a magic trick is done, but those tricks are usually invented by the duo for the sole purpose of exposing them, and therefore designed with more spectacular and weird methods than would have been necessary had it just been a \"conventional\" magic trick. For example, during their NBC \"Off the Deep End\" special, an escape act was performed where Teller was placed into a wooden box that was then put into shark-infested waters. The live audience believed Teller to be inside, but the television audience was shown that Teller escaped the box through a trapdoor in the bottom before it was placed in the water. He continued to read a magazine and eat a snack while awaiting his cue. Often a trick will be presented as if to explain it to the audience, only for a more elaborate version to be performed. In a segment of \"Bullshit!\", Penn & Teller demonstrate the illusion of sawing a woman in half, only for the saw to fall and \"accidentally\" cut the woman in half again.\n\nPenn & Teller perform their own adaptation of the famous bullet catch illusion. Each simultaneously fires a gun at the other through small panes of glass and then \"catches\" the other's bullet in his mouth. They also have an assortment of card tricks in their repertoire, virtually all of them involving the force of the Three of Clubs on an unsuspecting audience member as this card is easy for viewers to identify on television cameras.\n\nThe duo will sometimes perform tricks that discuss the intellectual underpinnings of magic. One of their routines, titled \"Magician vs. Juggler\", features Teller performing card tricks while Penn juggles and delivers a monologue on the difference between the two: jugglers start as socially aware children who go outside and learn juggling with other children; magicians are misfits who stay in the house and teach themselves magic tricks out of spite.\n\nIn one of their most politically charged tricks, they make an American flag seem to disappear by wrapping it in a copy of the United States Bill of Rights, and apparently setting the flag on fire, so that \"the flag is gone but the Bill of Rights remains\". The routine may also feature the \"Chinese bill of rights\", presented as a transparent piece of acetate. They normally end the trick by restoring the unscathed flag to its starting place on the flagpole; however, on a TV guest appearance on \"The West Wing\", this final part was omitted. The methods of the trick were revealed by the duo in an episode of \"\".\n\nOne of their more recent tricks involves a powered nail gun with a quantity of missing nails from the series of nails in its magazine. Penn begins by firing several apparently real nails into a board in front of him. He then proceeds to fire the nail gun into the palm of his hand several times, while suffering no injuries. His pattern builds as he oscillates between firing blanks into his hand and firing nails into the board, and fires one blank into Teller's crotch. Near the end of the trick, he says that it is a trick and that he and Teller believe that it is morally wrong to do things on stage that are really dangerous—it makes the audience complicit in unnecessary human risk.\n\nA trick introduced in 2010 is a modern version of the bag escape, replacing the traditional sack with a black trash bag apparently filled with helium. Teller is placed in the bag which is then pumped full of helium and sealed by an audience member. For the escape, the audience is blinded by a bright light for a second and when they are able to see again, Teller has escaped from the bag and Penn is holding it, still full of helium, above his head, before releasing it to float to the ceiling. The duo had hoped to put the trick in their mini-tour in London; however, it was first shown to the public in their Las Vegas show on August 18, 2010. In June 2011, Penn & Teller performed this trick for the first time in the United Kingdom on their ITV show \"\".\n\nThe managing editor of \"Science-Based Medicine\", David Gorski, has criticized Penn & Teller for their implied endorsement of non-scientific advice and pseudoscience (\"two skeptical icons lending their names to a daytime swamp of nonsense\") via their appearance on \"The Dr. Oz Show\".\n\nOn \"\", the duo described their social and political views as libertarian. In addition to disbelief in the paranormal and pseudoscience, Penn & Teller also take a view of doubtfulness to government authority. In various episodes of their show, they have heavily criticized both the Internal Revenue Service and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as taken stances against circumcision and gun control, and in support of ideas such as freedom to eat fast food, private property, and lower taxes. Penn & Teller are both H.L. Mencken research fellows with the Cato Institute, a libertarian think-tank and research organization.\n\nPenn & Teller have shown support for the Brights movement and are now listed on the movement's homepage under the Enthusiastic Brights section.\n\nThey have described themselves as teetotalers. Their book, \"Penn & Teller's How to Play in Traffic\", explains that they avoid alcohol, drugs, and caffeine, though they do smoke cigarettes in some videos.\n\nPenn & Teller:\nPenn without Teller:\nTeller without Penn:\n\n\n\nThe 1995 video game \"Penn & Teller's Smoke and Mirrors\" featured a mini-game called Desert Bus in which the player drove a bus route between Tucson and Las Vegas. Once reaching the destination, the player gets one point and, if desired, can then drive the return route. The game was considered by some to be long and boring yet found a cult audience.\n\nThe game has since been used in an annual charity event called \"Desert Bus for Hope\" run by the Canadian internet comedy troupe LoadingReadyRun. The fundraiser involves members of LoadingReadyRun (and occasional guests) playing the game and streaming that live online, while interviewing celebrities via Skype and accepting challenges for the audience, with all proceeds being donated to Child's Play. On November 14, 2011, an iOS port of Desert Bus was created and released in the iTunes Store. The game was developed in conjunction with the Desert Bus For Hope event and all profits from the game are donated to charity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1668861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1668861", "title": "Persecution of Hindus", "text": "Persecution of Hindus\n\nHindus have experienced religious persecution in the form of forceful conversions, documented massacres, demolition and desecrations of temples, as well as the destruction of universities and schools. In modern times, Hindus in the Muslim-majority regions of Kashmir, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Afghanistan and other countries have suffered persecution.\n\nMuslim conquest of the Indian subcontinent began during the early 8th century AD. According to a 1900 translation of Persian text \"Chachnamah\" by Mirza Kalichbeg Fredunbeg, the Umayyad governor of Damascus, Hajjaj responded to a plea by men and women attacked and imprisoned by a tribe off the coast of Debal (Karachi), who had gone there to purchase some Indian female slaves and rich goods. Hajjaj mobilised an expedition of 6,000 cavalry under Muhammad bin-Qasim in 712 CE. Records from the campaign recorded in the Chach Nama record temple demolitions, and mass executions of resisting Sindhi forces and the enslavement of their dependents. The raids attacked the kingdoms ruled by Hindu and Buddhist kings, wealth plundered, tribute (kharaj) settled and hostages taken. Numerous Hindu Jats were captured as prisoners of war by the Muslim army and moved to Iraq and elsewhere as slaves.\nParts of India have historically been subject to Islamic rule from the period of Muhammad bin Qasim to the Delhi Sultanate and the Mughal Empire, as well as smaller kingdoms like the Bahmani Sultanate and Tipu Sultan's kingdom of Mysore. After the conquest of Sindh, Qasim chose the Hanafi\nschool of Islamic law which that when under Muslim rule, polytheists such as Hindus, Buddhists, and Jains are to be regarded as \"dhimmis\" (from the Arab term) as well as \"People of the Book\" and are required to pay jizya for religious freedom. This decision proved crucial into the way which Muslim rulers ruled in India for the next 800 years.\n\nHistorian K. S. Lal in his book \"Theory and Practice of Muslim State in India\" claims that between the years 1000 AD and 1500 AD, the population of the Indian subcontinent decreased from 200 to 170 million. In \"Growth of Muslim Population in Medieval India\" meanwhile he claimed that it fell from 200 million to 120 million by establishment of the Mughal empire because of killings, deportations, dissemination, wars, and famines. He stated that his estimates were tentative and did not claim any finality.\n\nThe destruction of temples and educational institutions, the killings of learned monks and the scattering of students, led to a widespread decline in Hindu education. With the fall of Hindu kings, science research and philosophy faced some setbacks due to a lack of funding, royal support, and an open environment. Despite unfavourable treatment under the Muslim rule, Brahmanical education continued and was also patronised by rulers like Akbar and others. Bukka Raya I, one of the founders of Vijaynagar Empire, had taken steps to rehabilitate Hindu religious and cultural institutions which suffered a serious setback under Muslim rule. Buddhists centres of learning decayed, leading to the rise to prominence of Brahmanical institutions. Idols in numerous temples were unarmed, temples were desecrated. Most of the great temples in North India were destroyed and no great temples were built under Muslim rulers except the Vrindavan temples under Akbar which lack ornamentation as imagery was generally prohibited. The architecture of Hindu temples underwent change under the Muslim rulers and incorporated Islamic influences.\n\nWhile Sanskrit language and research on Vedantic philosophy faced a period of struggle, with Muslim rulers often targeting well-established and well-known educational institutions that were often suffering at the time, the traditional educational institutions in villages continued as before, vernacular regional languages based on Sanskrit thrived. A lot of Vedantic literature got translated into these languages between 12th to 15th centuries.\n\nMahmud of Ghazni, Sultan of the Ghaznavid empire, invaded the Indian subcontinent during the early 11th century. His campaigns across the Gangetic plains are often cited for their iconoclast plundering and destruction of temples. Mahmud's court historian Al-Utbi viewed Mahmud's expeditions as a \"jihad\" to propagate Islam and extirpate idolatry.\nMahmud may not have personally hated Hindus, but he was after the loot and welcomed the honours and accolades in the Islamic world obtained by desecrating Hindu temples and idols. Of his campaign on Mathura, it is written:\n\nThe loot from Mathura is estimated at 3 million rupees and over 5,000 slaves.\n\nAccording to military historian Victoria Schofield, Sabuktagin, the Turkish ruler of Ghazni and father of Mahmud, \"set as his goal the expulsion of the Hindus from the Kabul valley and Gandhara (Khandar), as the vale of Peshawar was still called. His son and successor, the Sultan Mahmud of Ghazni, continued his work, carrying the so called, 'holy war' against the Hindus into India\". Till the year 980 CE, this area of Gandhara was under Hindus until Sabuktagin from Ghazni invaded it and displaced its last Hindu Shahi king Jaya Pala. Hindu Shahi was an important kingdom in Northwest India at that time. According to some sources (like Ibn Batuta) the name of the Hindu Kush mountains of the region means \"Hindu killer\", because raiders would capture Hindu slaves – all Indians were termed Hindu in Islamic literature – from the plains and take them away to West Asia, with large numbers of boys and girls dying from icy cold weather in these mountains.\n\nMahmud of Ghazni sacked the second Somnath Temple in 1026, looted it, and the famous Shiva lingam of the temple was destroyed . Following the defeat of the Rajput Confederacy, after deciding to retaliate for their combined resistance, Mahmud had then set out on regular expeditions against them, leaving the conquered kingdoms in the hands of Hindu vassals annexing only the Punjab region. By 1665, the temple, one of many, was once again ordered destroyed by Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb.\n\nAlberuni, a historian who accompanied Mahmud of Ghazni, described the conquests in North Western India by stating that Mahmud impoverished the region and that the civilisation of the scattered Hindus declined and retreated from the North West.\n\nDelhi Sultanate, which extended over 320 years (1206-1526 AD), began with raids and invasion by Muhammad of Ghor. Recurrent clashes between Hindus and Muslims appear in the historical record during the Delhi Sultanate. Hindus who converted to Islam were not immune from persecution, which was illustrated by the Muslim Caste System in India as established by Ziauddin al-Barani in the Fatawa-i Jahandari.\n\nMohammed Ghori raided north India and the Hindu pilgrimage site Varanasi at the end of the 12th century and he continued the destruction of Hindu temples and idols that had begun during the first attack in 1194.\n\nHistorical records compiled by Muslim historian Maulana Hakim Saiyid Abdul Hai attest to the religious violence during Mamluk dynasty ruler Qutb-ud-din Aybak. The first mosque built in Delhi, the \"Quwwat al-Islam\" was built with demolished parts of 20 Hindu and Jain temples. This pattern of iconoclasm was common during his reign.\n\nReligious violence in India continued during the reign of Jalaluddin Firoz Shah Khalji and Allauddin Khalji of Khalji dynasty. Their army commanders such as Ulugh Khan, Nusrat Khan, Khusro Khan and Malik Kafur attacked, killed, looted and enslaved non-Muslim people from West, Central and South India. The Khalji dynasty's court historian wrote (abridged),\n\nThe campaign of violence, abasement, and humiliation was not merely the works of Muslim army, the \"kazis\", \"muftis\" and court officials of Allauddin recommended it on religious grounds. Kazi Mughisuddin of Bayánah advised Allauddin to \"keep Hindus in subjection, in abasement, as a religious duty, because they are the most inveterate enemies of the Prophet, and because the Prophet has commanded us to slay them, plunder them, and make them captive; saying - convert them to Islam or kill them, enslave them and spoil their wealth and property\".\n\nThe Muslim army led by Malik Kafur pursued two violent campaigns into south India, between 1309 and 1311, against three Hindu kingdoms of Deogiri (Maharashtra), Warangal (Telangana) and Madurai (Tamil Nadu). Thousands were slaughtered. Halebid temple was destroyed. The temples, cities, and villages were plundered. The loot from south India was so large, that historians of that era state a thousand camels had to be deployed to carry it to Delhi. In the booty from Warangal was the Koh-i-Noor diamond.\n\nIn 1311, Malik Kafur entered the Srirangam temple, massacred the Brahmin priests of the temple who resisted the invasion for three days, plundered the temple treasury and the storehouse and desecrated and destroyed numerous religious icons.\n\nMoroccan traveler Ibn Batuta describes the cruel behaviour of the Madurai sultan Ghiyas-ud-Din Muhammad Damghani, in his memoirs. His army routinely rounded local Hindu villagers and impaling and decapitated them, indiscriminately with women and children being included. The Vijayanagar princess Gangadevi also describes the atrocities of the Madurai Sultanate towards women and children.\n\nAfter Khalji dynasty, Tughlaq dynasty assumed power and religious violence continued in its reign. In 1323 Ulugh Khan began new invasions of the Hindu kingdoms of South India. At Srirangam, the invading army desecrated the shrine and killed 12,000 unarmed ascetics. The Vaishnava philosopher Sri Vedanta Desika, hid himself amongst the corpses together with the sole manuscript of the Srutaprakasika, the magnum opus of Sri Sudarsana Suri whose eyes were put out, and also the latter's two sons.\n\nFiruz Shah Tughluq was the third ruler of the Tughlaq dynasty of the Delhi Sultanate. The \"Tarikh-i-Firuz Shah\" is a historical record written during his reign that attests to the systematic persecution of Hindus under his rule. Capture and enslavement was widespread; when Sultan Firuz Shah died, slaves in his service were killed en masse and piled up in a heap. Victims of religious violence included Hindu Brahmin priests who refused to convert to Islam:\n\nUnder his rule, Hindus who were forced to pay the mandatory Jizya tax were recorded as infidels and their communities monitored. Hindus who erected a deity or built a temple and those who praticised their religion in public such as near a \"kund\" (water tank) were arrested, brought to the palace and executed. Firuz Shah Tughlaq wrote in his autobiography,\n\nThe Turko-Mongol ruler Timur's attack on India was marked by systematic slaughter and other atrocities on a massive scale which were inflicted mainly on the subcontinent's Hindu population. His army looted Delhi, sparing only the Muslim neighbourhoods of the city. The Hindu population was massacred or enslaved. One hundred thousand Hindus prisoners were killed by his army before he attacked Delhi for fear of rebellion and many more were killed afterwards.\n\nAfter the sack of Bhatner fort during the Timurid conquests of India in 1398, Timur attacked and sacked the important cities like Sirsa, Fatehabad, Sunam, Kaithal and Panipat. When he reached near the town of Sarsuti from the fort of Firozah and Bhatner, the residents who were mostly non-Muslims fled and were chased by a detachment of Timur's troops, with thousands of them being killed as well as looted by the troops. From there he travelled to Fatehabad, whose residents fled and a large number of those remaining in the town were massacred. The Ahirs resisted him at Ahruni but were defeated, with thousands being killed and many were taken prisoners while the town was burnt to ashes. From there he travelled to Tohana. Sharaf ad-Din Ali Yazdi said the inhabitants of that town were robbers. They tried to resist but were defeated and fled. Timur's army pursued and killed 200 Jats, while taking many more as prisoners. He then sent a detachment to chase the fleeing Jats and killed 2,000 of them. Meanwhile, their wives and children were enslaved and their property plundered. From there he proceeded to Kaithal; the residents were massacred and plundered and all the villages along the way were destroyed. On the next day, he reached Assandh which was deserted. Afterward, he subdued Tughlaqpur's fort and the town of Salwan before besieging Loni's fort and ultimately marching on Delhi.\n\nAccording to Habib and Raychaudhuri, when \"Timur invaded India in 1398-99, the collection of slaves formed [as] an important object for his army; 100,000 Hindu slaves had been seized by his soldiers and camp followers\". All of them were killed to avoid a rebellion before the attack on Delhi. \n\nAfter Timur left, different Muslim Sultans enforced their power in what used to be Delhi Sultanate. In Kashmir, Sultan Sikandar began expanding, and unleashed religious violence that earned him the name \"but-shikan\" or idol-breaker. He earned this sobriquet because of the sheer scale of desecration and destruction of Hindu and Buddhist temples, shrines, ashrams, hermitages and other holy places in what is now known as Kashmir and its neighbouring territories. He destroyed the vast majority of Hindu and Buddhist temples within his reach in the Kashmir region (north and northwest India). Encouraged by Islamic theologian, Muhammad Hamadani, Sikandar Butshikan also destroyed ancient Hindu and Buddhist books and banned followers of dharmic religions from prayers, dance, music, consumption of wine and observation of their religious festivals. To escape the religious violence during his reign, many Hindus converted to Islam and many left Kashmir. Many were also killed.\n\nAfter the massacres of Timur, the people and lands within Delhi Sultanate were left in a state of anarchy, chaos and pestilence. The Sayyid dynasty followed, but few historical records on religious violence, or anything else for that matter, have been found. Those found, including Tarikh-i Mubarak-Shahi describe continued religious violence. Over 1414 through 1423, according to the Muslim historian Yahya bin Ahmad, the Islamic commanders \"chastised and plundered the infidels\" of Ahar, Khur, Kampila, Gwalior, Seori, Chandawar, Etawa, Sirhind, Bail, Katehr and Rahtors. The violence was not one-sided. The Hindus retaliated by forming their own armed groups and attacking forts seized by Muslims. In 1431, Jalandhar for example, was retaken by Hindus and all Muslims inside the fort were placed in prison. Yahya bin Ahmad, the historian remarked on the arrest of Muslims by Hindus, \"the unclean ruthless infidels had no respect for the Musulman religion\". The cycle of violence between Hindus and Muslims, in numerous parts of India, continued throughout the Sayyid dynasty according to Yahya bin Ahmad.\n\nReligious violence and persecution continued during the reign of the two significant Lodhi dynasty rulers, Bahlul Khan Lodhi and Sikandar Lodhi. The Delhi Sultanate, whose reach had shrunk to northern and eastern India, witnessed the burning and killing of Hindus for their religion, in Bengal, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. In 1499, a Brahmin of Bengal was arrested because he had attracted a large following among both Muslims and Hindus with the following teaching: \"the Mohammedan and Hindu religions were both true, and were but different paths by which God might be approached.\" Sikandar, with his governor of Bihar Azam Humayun, asked Islamic scholars and sharia experts of their time whether such pluralism and peaceful messages were permissible within the Islamic Sultanate. The scholars advised that it is not, and that the Brahmin should be given the option to either embrace and convert to Islam, or be killed. Sikandar accepted the counsel and gave the Brahmin an ultimatum. The Hindu refused to change his view and was killed.\n\nElsewhere in Uttar Pradesh, a historian of Lodhi dynasty times, described the state sponsored religious violence as follows,\n\nAccording to the autobiographical historical record of Emperor Babur, \"Tuzak-i Babari\", Babur's campaign in northwest India targeted Hindu and Sikh civilians as well as non-Sunni sects of Islam. Immense numbers of people were killed, with the Muslim camps being described as building \"towers of skulls of the infidels\" on hillocks. Baburnama, similarly records massacre of Hindu villages and towns by Babur's Muslim army, in addition to numerous deaths of both Hindu and Muslim soldiers in the battlefields.\n\nIn 1545, Sher Shah Suri's army attacked the Hindu fort of Kalinjar ruled by Kirat Singh. During the attack, Per Tarikh-i-Sher Shahi Suri was burnt in an explosion and ordered his nobles to take the fort while he was still alive. His forces captured the fort by afternoon and per the account put \"everyone in there to the sword\".\n\nAkbar is known for his religious tolerance. However, in early years of his reign, religious violence included the massacre of Hindus of Garha in 1560 AD, under the command of Mughal Viceroy Asaf Khan. Other campaigns targeted Chitor and Rantambhor. Maulana Ahmad, the historian of that era, wrote of the battle at Chitor fort,\n\nAnother historian Nizamuddin Ahmad recorded the violence during the conquest of Nagarkot (modern Himachal Pradesh), as follows,\n\nThe reign of Aurangzeb witnessed one of the strongest campaigns of religious violence in the Mughal Empire's history. Aurangzeb re-introduced \"jizya\" (tax) on non-Muslims, led numerous campaigns of attacks against non-Muslims, forcibly converted Hindus to Islam and destroyed Hindu temples. However, he also built many temples. Scholars like Ram Puniyani states that Aurangzeb was not always fanatically anti-Hindu, and kept changing his policies depending on the needs of the situation. He banned the construction of new temples, but permitted the repair and maintenance of existing temples. He also made generous donations of \"jagirs\" to several temples to win the sympathies of his Hindu subjects. There are several \"firman\"s (orders) in his name, supporting temples and gurudwaras, including Mahakaleshwar temple of Ujjain, Balaji temple of Chitrakoot, Umananda Temple of Guwahati and the Shatrunjaya Jain temples.\n\nAurangzeb issued orders in 1669, to all his governors of provinces to \"destroy with a willing hand the schools and temples of the infidels, and that they were strictly enjoined to put an entire stop to the teaching and practice of idolatrous forms of worship\". These orders and his own initiative in implementing them led to the destruction of numerous temples, contributing to the list of temples destroyed during Islamic rule of India. Some temples were destroyed entirely; in other cases mosques were built on their foundations, sometimes using the same stones. Idols in temples were smashed, and the city of Mathura was temporarily renamed as Islamabad in local official documents.\n\nAn estimated of 4.6 million people were killed under his reign. White estimates that about 2.5 million of Aurangzeb's army were killed during the Mughal–Maratha Wars (100,000 annually during a quarter-century), while 2 million civilians in war-torn lands died due to drought, plague and famine. It is also noted that most soldiers and civilians died because of the famine and plague than battles.\n\nTipu Sultan persecuted the Hindus, Christians and Mappla Muslims, and carried out forced conversions of Hindus and Christians. According to C. K. Kareem, Tippu Sultan issued an edict for the destruction of Hindu temples in Kerala. The portrayal of Tipu Sultan as a religious bigot has been also disputed by some sources suggesting that he in fact often embraced religious pluralism.\n\nTipu got Runmust Khan, the \"Nawab\" of Kurool, to launch a surprise attack upon the Kodava Hindus (also called Coorgs or Coorgis) who were besieged by the invading Muslim army. 500 were killed and over 40,000 Kodavas fled to the woods and concealed themselves in the mountains. In Seringapatam, the young men were reported to be forcibly circumcised and incorporated into the Ahmedy Corps, and they formed eight \"Risalas\" or regiments. Thousands of Kodava Hindus were seized along with the Raja and held captive at Seringapatam (Srirangapatna). They were also subjected to forcible conversions to Islam, death, and torture. The actual number of Kodavas that were captured in the operation is unclear. The British administrator Mark Wilks gives it as 70,000, historian Lewis Rice arrives at the figure of 85,000, while Mir Kirmani's score for the Coorg campaign is 80,000 men, women and child prisoners. In a letter to Runmust Khan, Tipu himself stated:\n\nIn 1788, Tipu reportedly ordered his governor in Calicut Sher Khan to begin the process of converting Hindus to Islam.\n\nThe archaeological survey of India has listed three temples which were destroyed during the reign of Tipu Sultan. These were the Harihareshwar Temple at Harihar which was converted into a mosque, the Varahswami Temple in Srirangapatnam and the Odakaraya Temple in Hospet.\n\nThe following is a translation of an inscription on the stone found at Seringapatam, which was situated in a conspicuous place in the fort:\n\nIn 1788, Tipu ordered his governor in Calicut Sher Khan to begin the process of converting Hindus to Islam, and in July of that year, 200 Brahmins were forcibly converted and made to eat beef. Mohibbul Hasan, Prof. Sheikh Ali, and other historians cast great doubt on the scale of the deportations and forced conversions in Coorg in particular, and Hasan says that the British versions of what happened were intended to malign Tipu Sultan, and to be used as propaganda against him. He argues that little reliance can be placed in Muslim accounts such as Kirmani's \"Nishan-e Haidari\"; in their anxiety to represent the Sultan as a champion of Islam, they had a tendency to exaggerate and distort the facts: Kirmani claims that 70,000 Coorgis were converted, when forty years later the entire population of Coorg was still less than that number. According to Ramchandra Rao \"Punganuri\" the true number of converts was about 500.\n\nThe Hindu minority in Kashmir has also been historically persecuted by Muslim rulers. While Hindus and Muslims lived in harmony for certain periods of time, several Muslim rulers of Kashmir were intolerant of other religions. Sultãn Sikandar Butshikan of Kashmir (AD 1389–1413) is often considered the worst of these. Historians have recorded many of his atrocities. The \"Tarikh-i-Firishta\" records that Sikandar persecuted the Hindus and issued orders proscribing the residency of any other than Muslims in Kashmir. He also ordered the breaking of all \"golden and silver images\". The Tarikh-i-Firishta further states: \"Many of the Brahmins, rather than abandon their religion or their country, poisoned themselves; some emigrated from their native homes, while a few escaped the evil of banishment by becoming Mahomedans. After the emigration of the Bramins, Sikundur ordered all the temples in Kashmir to be thrown down. Having broken all the images in Kashmeer, (Sikandar) acquired the title of 'Destroyer of Idols'\".\n\nSeveral ancient temples in Kashmir that were considered architectural masterpiece of those times were demolished during this period.\n\nRichard Eaton states that the origin of the caste system of modern form in the Bengal region of India may be traceable to the period of 1200-1500. This is after the Turkic conquests. He states that \"Looking at Bengal's Hindu society as a whole, it seems likely that the caste system - far from being the ancient and unchanging essence of Indian civilization, as supposed by generations of Orientalists - emerged into something resembling its modern form only during the period 1200-1500\". Before the Turkish conquest, the Sena dynasty kept order by distributing wealth and judging between the socially higher or lower in the context of the court and its rituals. However, with the collapse of the Hindu kingship that followed the Turkic conquest, these functions appear to have been displaced onto the society, with social order being maintained through enforced group endogamy, marriage regulation enforced through caste councils and specialists kept the genealogies. The advent of Indo-Turkish rule resulted in the end with patronage for the Brahmins who had enjoyed it under the Sena government and many of them fled into the eastern hinterlands. Until 1415, they served few positions in the government and were disdained. However, this changed with Raja Ganesha's revolution and under the reign of his converted son Jalaluddin Muhammad Shah, resulting in many of them gaining employment in the government by the time of Alauddin Husain Shah.\n\nMuhammad Shah I's draft on Vijayanagara Empire's treasury in 1365 incensed the king king Bukka Raya I, who insulted the envoy with the draft and besieged the fort of Mudgal held by no less than 800 Muslim troops. Many men, women and children were killed. The fortress fell and its garrison was massacred before any relief could reach it. Ferishta's claim of only one survivor narrating the incident to the Sulatn may be one-sided. Muhammad in response attacked Bukka's army and vowed to not sheathe his sword until he avenged the massacre by killing 100,000 Hindus. At Raichur Doab, Muhammad killed 70,000 Hindus. He pursued Bukka throughout his dominions and the slaughtered no less than 400,000 Hindus around Vijaynagara. Bukka sued for peace and even the Muslim officers were moved to beg on hopes the slaughter might cease. Muhammad replied that though he had killed four times the number of Hindus than his promise, he will not desist until the draft on treasury was honoured. The envoys agreed to this, resulting in an end to the war. The Hindus shocked by the bloodshed called on both parties to avoid killing non-combatants in the future. Muhammad agreed and the agreement, though sometimes violated, was to some extent successful in stopping the atrocities during the long period of intermittent warfare between the two kingdoms.\n\nThe Barid Shahi, surrounded by more powerful states, had invited the intervention of Vijayanagara in the affairs of the Muslim kingdoms. The arrogance of Sadasiva Raya had embarrassed and disgusted both his enemies as well as allies, in addition the excesses of his troops had horrified the Muslims. He demanded cessation of extenstive territory from Bijapur for his assistance to Ali as well as from Golconda as punishment for duplicitous actions of Ibrahim. It seemed apparent to them that the end of Muslim rule was at hand if his ambition was not curbed. The Hindu army was defeated at the Battle of Talikota and fled with their loss estimated at 100,000 men. The city was hastily abandoned after its defeat. Both Muslims and Hindus plundered and burnt the Vijayanagara city. The victors occupied the city for six months and had it destroyed while plundering the country.\n\nDuring the Portuguese rule of Goa, thousands of Hindus were coerced into accepting Christianity by the passage of laws that made it difficult for them to practice their faith, harassed them under false pretences or petty complaints, and gave favourable status to converts (indiacatos) and mestiços in terms of laws and jobs. The Goa Inquisition, was established in 1560 by Portuguese missionaries in the Estado Português da Índia. The Goa Inquisition was directed against backsliding converts (that is, former Hindus and Muslims who had converted to Christianity), and it has been recorded that at least 57 Goans were executed over a period of three hundred years, starting in the year 1560.\n\nAccording to Teotónio de Souza the Hindus faced severe persecution with great fortitude under the Portuguese in Goa. Vicar general Miguel Vaz had written to the king of Portugal in 1543 from Goa requesting that the Inquisition be established in Goa as well. Three years later Francis Xavier made a similar request in view of the Muslims in the region and the Christians abandoning their faith. On hearing of the excesses of the Inquisition in Goa, Lourenco Pires, Portuguese ambassador at Rome, expressed his displeasure to the crown while warning that this zeal for religion was actually becoming a disservice to God and the kingdom. Again according to de Souza, the Inquisition was bad for its victims and led to the downfall of the Portuguese Empire in the East.\n\nWhile the vast majority of Hindus live in Hindu-majority areas of India, Hindus in other parts of South Asia and in the diaspora have sometimes faced persecution.\n\n\"Mappila Riots\" or \"Mappila Outbreaks\" refers to a series of riots by the Mappila (Moplah) Muslims of Malabar, South India in the 19th century and the early 20th century (c.1836–1921) against native Hindus and the state. The Malabar Rebellion of 1921 is often considered as the culmination of Mappila riots. Mappilas committed several atrocities against the Hindus during the outbreak. Annie Besant reported that Muslim Mappilas forcibly converted many Hindus and killed or drove away all Hindus who would not apostatise, totalling the driven people to one lakh (100,000).\n\nHindus, like Muslims, Sikhs, and members of other religious groups, experienced severe dislocation and violence during the massive population exchanges associated with the partition of India, as members of various communities moved to what they hoped was the relative safety of an area where they would be a religious majority. Hindus were among the between 200,000 and a million who died during the rioting and other violence associated with the partition.\n\nIn 1946, the Cabinet Mission to India was planning the transfer of power from the British Raj to the Indian leadership. Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the one time Congressman and Indian Nationalist, and now the leader of the Muslim League, had accepted the Cabinet Mission Plan of 16 June whereas the Congress rejected it outright. Fearing Hindu Domination in the Constituent Assembly, Jinnah denounced the British Cabinet Mission and decided to boycott the Constituent Assembly to try to put pressure on Congress and the British, by resorting to \"Direct Action\".\n\nThe Muslim League responded by planning and carrying out a \"hartal\" (\"general strike\") on 16 August 1946 (called Direct Action Day). Upon the request of Suhrawardy, Muslim League Chief Minister of Bengal, the Governor of Bengal Frederick Burrows declared a public holiday that day. The Congress and the Hindu Mahasabha in Bengal protested to this; they did not want to be seen as supporting the hartal. They urged the Hindus to instead keep their shops open and to continue their business as usual on that hartal day. On the afternoon of Direct Action Day Suhrawardy and another speaker Nazimuddin addressed a Muslim rally. As soon as many of the listeners left the meeting they were reported to have started violently attacking the Hindus and looting their shops. Later Suhrawardy reportedly tried to get British officials to bring the army in but nothing happened until steps towards an army intervention began in the afternoon of 17 August. The Hindus, supported by Sikhs, in the city of Calcutta retaliated. All these events are known as the Great Calcutta killings of 1946.\n\nOn 17 August the President of a Textile Workers' Union led a hooligan and his mob (all Muslims) into the compound of a Birla owned Kesoram Cotton Mill. The Mill was looted while the workers, including 300 Odia speakers, (their religion is disputed) were massacred. In Calcutta, within 72 hours, more than 4,000 people lost their lives and 100,000 residents in the city of Calcutta were left homeless. Some sources claim that 7,000-10,000 people were killed, including both Hindus and Muslims. On 21 August Bengal was brought under the Viceroy's rule. British troops entered the place, and the rioting was reduced by 22 August. This sparked off several riots between Muslims and Hindus in Noakhali, Bihar and Punjab that year. There also occurred communal violence in Delhi, Bombay, Punjab and the Northwest Frontier Province.\n\nAround seven weeks after Direct Action Day, violence was directed against the Hindu minority in the villages of Noakhali and Tippera in Chittagong district in East Bengal. Rioting in the region began in the Ramganj police station area by a mob. The rioting spread to the neighbouring police station areas of Raipur, Lakshmipur, Begumganj and Sandip in Noakhali and Faridganj, Hajiganj, Chandpur, Laksham and Chudagram in Tippera. From 2 October, there were instances of stray killings.\n\nRelief operations took place and Gandhiji visited the place on a peace mission even as threats against the Hindus continued. While claims varied, the official Muslim League Bengal Government estimates of those killed were placed at a conservative 200. According to Suhrawardy 9,895 people were forcibly converted in Tippera alone. Ghulam Sarwar Hossain, a religious leader who belonged to a local political party dominated by Muslims, was the main organiser of the riot. It was said that the local administration had planned the riot and that the police helped Ghulam Sarwar escape arrest. A large number of victims were Namasudra (a Bengali Hindu lower caste). According to a source quoting from the State Government Archives, in Naokhali 178 Hindus and 42 Muslims were killed while in Tippera 39 Hindus and 26 Muslims were killed. Women were abducted and forced into marriage. In retaliation Muslims were massacred in Bihar and in Garhmukteshwara in the United Provinces. These attacks began between 25 and 28 October in the Chhapra and Saran districts of Bihar and then spread to Patna, Munger, Bhagalpur and a large number of scattered villages of Bihar. The official estimates of the dead at that time were 445.\n\nIn 1947, the Nizam, ruler of the princely state of Hyderabad, refused to accede to India, despite Hyderabad being a Hindu-majority state. The Nizam sanctioned the creation of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, then the State's dominant political party, which wielded a strong private army, the Razakars, under the leadership of Kasim Razvi.\n\nHindus constitute 2 percent of Pakistan's population. Hinduism is the second largest religion in Pakistan after Islam, according to the 1998 Census. As of 2010, Pakistan had the fifth largest Hindu population in the world and PEW predicts that by 2050 Pakistan will have the fourth largest Hindu population in the world.\n\nThere has been historical decline of Hinduism, Buddhism and Sikhism in the areas of what is now called Pakistan. This happened for a variety of reasons even as these religions have continued to flourish beyond the eastern frontiers of Pakistan. The region became predominantly Muslim during the rule of the Delhi Sultanate and later Mughal Empire due to the forced conversions in what is now called Pakistan and the rest of South Asia. The predominantly Muslim population supported Muslim League and Pakistan Movement. After the independence of Pakistan in 1947 approximately 4.7 million Hindus and Sikhs moved to India while 6.5 million Muslims settled in Pakistan.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Babri Masjid demolition Pakistani Hindus faced riots. Mobs attacked five Hindu temples in Karachi and set fire to 25 temples in towns across the province of Sindh. Shops owned by Hindus were also attacked in Sukkur. Hindu homes and temples were also attacked in Quetta.\n\nDuring the 1971 Bangladesh genocide there were widespread killings and acts of ethnic cleansing of civilians in Bangladesh (then East Pakistan, a province of Pakistan), and widespread violations of human rights were carried out by the Pakistani Army, which was supported by political and religious militias during the Bangladesh Liberation War. In Bangladesh, the atrocities are identified as a genocide. \"Time\" magazine reported that \"The Hindus, who account for three-fourths of the refugees and a majority of the dead, have borne the brunt of the Muslim military's hatred.\"\n\nUnited States government cables noted that Hindus were specific targets of the Pakistani army. There was widespread killing of Hindu males, and rapes of women. Documented incidents in which Hindus were massacred in large numbers include the Chuknagar massacre, the Jathibhanga massacre, and the Shankharipara massacre. More than 60% of the Bengali refugees who fled to India were Hindus. It has been alleged that this widespread violence against Hindus was motivated by a policy to purge East Pakistan of what was seen as Hindu and Indian influences\n\nAccording to R.J. Rummel, professor of political science at the University of Hawaii,\nThe Bangladesh Liberation War (1971) resulted in one of the largest genocides of the 20th century. While estimates of the number of casualties was 3,000,000, it is reasonably certain that Hindus bore a disproportionate brunt of the Pakistan Army's onslaught against the Bengali population of what was East Pakistan. An article in \"Time\" magazine dated 2 August 1971, stated \"The Hindus, who account for three-fourths of the refugees and a majority of the dead, have borne the brunt of the Muslim military hatred.\" Senator Edward Kennedy wrote in a report that was part of United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations testimony dated 1 November 1971, \"Hardest hit have been members of the Hindu community who have been robbed of their lands and shops, systematically slaughtered, and in some places, painted with yellow patches marked \"H\". All of this has been officially sanctioned, ordered and implemented under martial law from Islamabad\". In the same report, Senator Kennedy reported that 80% of the refugees in India were Hindus and according to numerous international relief agencies such as UNESCO and World Health Organization the number of East Pakistani refugees at their peak in India was close to 10 million. Given that the Hindu population in East Pakistan was around 11 million in 1971, this suggests that up to 8 million, or more than 70% of the Hindu population had fled the country. The Pulitzer Prize–winning journalist Sydney Schanberg covered the start of the war and wrote extensively on the suffering of the East Bengalis, including the Hindus both during and after the conflict. In a syndicated column \"The Pakistani Slaughter That Nixon Ignored\", he wrote about his return to liberated Bangladesh in 1972. \"Other reminders were the yellow \"H\"s the Pakistanis had painted on the homes of Hindus, particular targets of the Muslim army\" (by \"Muslim army\", meaning the Pakistan Army, which had targeted Bengali Muslims as well), (Newsday, 29 April 1994).\n\nThe Kashmiri Pandit population living in the Muslim majority region of Jammu and Kashmir has often come under threat from Islamic militants in recent years, in stark contrast to centuries of peace between the two religious communities in the State. Historians have suggested that some of these attacks have been in retaliation for the anti-Muslim violence propagated by the Hindutva movement during the demolition of the Babri Masjid, and the 2002 Gujarat riots. This threat has been pronounced during periods of unrest in the Kashmir valley, such as in 1989. Along with the Hindus, large sections of the Muslim population have also been attacked, ostensibly for \"cooperating\" with the Indian state. Some authors have found evidence that these militants had the support of the Pakistani security establishment. The incidents of violence included the Wandhama Massacre in 1998, in which 24 Kashmiri Hindus were gunned down by Muslims disguised as Indian soldiers. Many Kashmiri Non-Muslims have been killed and thousands of children orphaned over the course of the conflict in Kashmir. The 2000 Amarnath pilgrimage massacre was another such incident where 30 Hindu pilgrims were killed en route to the Amarnath temple.\n\nIn the Kashmir region, approximately 300 Kashmiri Pandits were killed between September 1989 to 1990 in various incidents. In early 1990, local Urdu newspapers \"Aftab\" and \"Al Safa\" called upon Kashmiris to wage jihad against India and ordered the expulsion of all Hindus choosing to remain in Kashmir. In the following days masked men ran in the streets with AK-47 shooting to kill Hindus who would not leave. Notices were placed on the houses of all Hindus, telling them to leave within 24 hours or die.\n\nAs of 2005, it is estimated that between 250,000 and 300,000 pandits have migrated outside Kashmir since the 1990s due to persecution by Islamic fundamentalists in the largest case of ethnic cleansing since the partition of India. The proportion of Kashmiri Pandits in the Kashmir valley has declined from about 15% in 1947 to, by some estimates, less than 0.1% since the insurgency in Kashmir took on a religious and sectarian flavour.\n\nMany Kashmiri Pandits have been killed by Islamist militants in incidents such as the Wandhama massacre and the 2000 Amarnath pilgrimage massacre. The incidents of massacring and forced eviction have been termed ethnic cleansing by some observers.\n\nThere have been a number of more recent attacks on Hindu temples and Hindus by Muslim militants in India. Prominent among them are the 1998 Chamba massacre, the 2002 fidayeen attacks on Raghunath temple, the 2002 Akshardham Temple attack allegedly perpetrated by Islamic terrorist outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba, and the 2006 Varanasi bombings (supposedly perpetrated by Lashkar-e-Toiba), resulting in many deaths and injuries.\n\nIn Godhra train burning, which happened on 27 February 2002, 59 people, including 25 women and 15 children Hindu pilgrims were the victims. In 2011, Judicial court convicted 31 people saying the incident was a \"pre-planned conspiracy\".\n\nIn Tripura, the National Liberation Front of Tripura (NLFT) attacked a Hindu temple and killed a spiritual leader there. They are known to have forcefully converted Hindus to Christianity.\n\nIn Assam, members of the primarily Christian Hmar ethnic group have placed bloodstained-crosses in temples and forced Hindus to convert at gunpoint.\n\nThe period of insurgency in Punjab around Operation Blue Star saw clashes of the Sikh militants with the police, as well as with the Hindu-Nirankari groups resulting in many Hindu deaths. In 1987, 32 Hindus were pulled out of a bus and shot, near Lalru in Punjab by Sikh militants.\n\nOn 2 May 2003, eight Hindus were killed by a Muslim mob at Marad beach in Kozhikode district, Kerala. One of the attackers was also killed. The judicial commission that probed the incident concluded that members of several political parties were directly involved in planning and executing the killing. The commission affirmed \"a clear communal conspiracy, with Muslim fundamentalist and terrorist organisations involved\". The courts sentenced 62 Muslims to life imprisonment for committing the massacre in 2009.\n\nThere have been several instances where Hindu refugees from Bangladesh have stated that they were the victims of torture and intimidation. A US-based human rights organisation, Refugees International, has claimed that religious minorities, especially Hindus, still face discrimination in Bangladesh.\n\nOne of the major political parties in Bangladesh, the Bangladesh Nationalist Party, openly calls for 'Talibanisation' of the state. However, the prospect of actually \"Talibanizing\" the state is regarded as a remote possibility, since Bangladeshi Islamic society is generally more progressive than the extremist Taliban of Afghanistan. Political scholars conclude that while the Islamization of Bangladesh will not happen, the country is not on the brink of being Talibanized. The 'Vested Property Act' previously named the 'Enemy Property Act' has seen up to 40% of Hindu land snatched away forcibly. Hindu temples in Bangladesh have also been vandalised.\n\nBangladeshi feminist Taslima Nasrin's 1993 novel \"Lajja\" deals with the anti-Hindu riots and anti-secular sentiment in Bangladesh in the wake of the destruction of the Babri Masjid in India. The book was banned in Bangladesh, and helped draw international attention to the situation of the Bangladeshi Hindu minority.\n\nIn October 2006, the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom published a report titled 'Policy Focus on Bangladesh', which said that since its last election, 'Bangladesh has experienced growing violence by religious extremists, intensifying concerns expressed by the countries religious minorities'. The report further stated that Hindus are particularly vulnerable in a period of rising violence and extremism, whether motivated by religious, political or criminal factors, or some combination. The report noted that Hindus had multiple disadvantages against them in Bangladesh, such as perceptions of dual loyalty with respect to India and religious beliefs that are not tolerated by the politically dominant Islamic Fundamentalists of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party. Violence against Hindus has taken place \"in order to encourage them to flee in order to seize their property\". On 2 November 2006, USCIRF criticised Bangladesh for its continuing persecution of minority Hindus. It also urged the Bush administration to get Dhaka to ensure protection of religious freedom and minority rights before Bangladesh's next national elections in January 2007.\n\nOn 6 February 2010, Sonargaon temple in Narayanganj district of Bangladesh was destroyed by Islamic fanatics. Five people were seriously injured during the attack. Temples were also attacked and destroyed in 2011\n\nIn 2013, the International Crimes Tribunal indicted several Jamaat members for war crimes against Hindus during the 1971 Bangladesh atrocities. In retaliation, violence against Hindu minorities in Bangladesh was instigated by the Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami. The violence included the looting of Hindu properties and businesses, the burning of Hindu homes, rape of Hindu women and desecration and destruction of Hindu temples.\n\nOn 28 February 2013, the International Crimes Tribunal sentenced Delwar Hossain Sayeedi, the Vice President of the Jamaat-e-Islami to death for the war crimes committed during the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War. Following the sentence, activists of Jamaat-e-Islami and its student wing Islami Chhatra Shibir attacked the Hindus in different parts of the country. Hindu properties were looted, Hindu houses were burnt into ashes and Hindu temples were desecrated and set on fire.\n\nHindu women have also been known to be victims of kidnapping and forced conversion to Islam. An official of the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan said in 2010 that around 20 to 25 Hindu girls are abducted every month and forcibly converted to Islam. Many Hindus are continuing to flee Pakistan even now due to persecution. Krishan Bheel, a Hindu member of the National Assembly of Pakistan, came into the news recently for manhandling Qari Gul Rehman after being taunted with a religious insult.\n\nOn 18 October 2005, Sanno Amra and Champa, a Hindu couple residing in the Punjab Colony, Karachi, Sindh returned home to find that their three teenage daughters had disappeared. After inquiries to the local police, the couple discovered that their daughters had been taken to a local madrassah, had been converted to Islam, and were denied unsupervised contact with their parents. In January 2017, a Hindu temple was demolished in Pakistan's Haripur district.\n\nA Pakistan Muslim League politician has stated that abduction of Hindus and Sikhs is a business in Pakistan, along with conversions of Hindus to Islam. Forced conversion, rape, and forced marriages of Hindu women in Pakistan have recently become very controversial in Pakistan.\n\nIn 2006, a Hindu temple in Lahore was destroyed to pave the way for construction of a multi-storied commercial building. When reporters from Pakistan-based newspaper \"Dawn\" tried to cover the incident, they were accosted by the henchmen of the property developer, who denied that a Hindu temple existed at the site. In January 2014, a policeman standing guard outside a Hindu temple at Peshawar was gunned down. \"25 March 2014 Express Tribune\" citing an All Pakistan Hindu Rights Movement (PHRM) survey said that 95% of all Hindu temples in Pakistan have been converted since 1990. Pakistanis attack Hindu temples if anything happens to any mosque in neighbouring India.\n\nAlthough Hindus were frequently soft targets in Pakistan, the rise of Taliban forces in the political arena has particularly unsettled the already fragile situation for the minority community. Increasing persecution, ostracism from locals and lack of a social support system is forcing more and more Hindus to flee to India. This has been observed in the past whenever the conflicts between the two nations escalated but this has been a notable trend in view of the fact the recent developments are due to internal factors almost exclusively. The Taliban have used false methods of luring, as well as the co-operation of zealots within local authorities to perpetrate religious cleansing.\n\nIn July 2010, around 60 members of the minority Hindu community in Karachi were attacked and evicted from their homes following an incident of a Hindu youth drinking water from a tap near an Islamic mosque. In January 2014, a policeman standing guard outside a Hindu temple at Peshawar was gunned down. Pakistan's Supreme Court has sought a report from the government on its efforts to ensure access for the minority Hindu community to temples - the Karachi bench of the apex court was hearing applications against the alleged denial of access to the members of the minority community.\n\nIn 2005, 32 Hindus were killed by firing from the government side near Nawab Akbar Bugti's residence during bloody clashes between Bugti tribesmen and paramilitary forces in Balochistan. The firing left the Hindu residential locality near Bugti's residence badly hit.\n\nThe rise of Taliban insurgency in Pakistan has been an influential and increasing factor in the persecution of and discrimination against religious minorities in Pakistan, such as Hindus, Christians, Sikhs, and other minorities. Hindu minorities living under the influence of the Taliban in Swat, Pakistan, were forced to wear red headgear such as turbans as a symbol of dhimmi. In July 2010, around 60 members of the minority Hindus in Karachi were attacked and ethnically cleansed following an incident when a Hindu youth drank from a water tap near an Islamic mosque. In January 2014, in an attack on a temple, the guard was gunned down.\n\nSome Hindus in Pakistan feel that they are treated as second-class citizens and many have continued to migrate to India. According to the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan data, just around 1,000 Hindu families fled to India in 2013. In May 2014, a member of the ruling Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N), Dr Ramesh Kumar Vankwani, revealed in the National Assembly of Pakistan that around 5,000 Hindus are migrating from Pakistan to India every year.\n\nUnder the Taliban regime, Sumptuary laws were passed in 2001 which forced Hindus to wear yellow badges in public in order to identify themselves as such. This was similar to Adolf Hitler's treatment of Jews in Nazi Germany during World War II. Hindu women were forced to dress according to Islamic hijab, ostensibly a measure to \"protect\" them from harassment. This was part of the Taliban's plan to segregate \"un-Islamic\" and \"idolatrous\" communities from Islamic ones. In addition, Hindus were forced to wear yellow distinguishing marks, however, after some protests Taliban abandoned this policy.\n\nThe decree was condemned by the Indian and United States governments as a violation of religious freedom. Widespread protests against the Taliban regime broke out in Bhopal, India. In the United States, the chairman of the Anti-Defamation League Abraham Foxman compared the decree to the practices of Nazi Germany, where Jews were required to wear labels which identified them as such. The comparison was also drawn by California Democrat and holocaust survivor Tom Lantos, and New York Democrat and author of the bipartisan 'Sense of the Congress' non-binding resolution against the anti-Hindu decree Eliot L Engel. In the United States, congressmen and several lawmakers. wore yellow badges on the floor of the Senate during the debate as a demonstration of their solidarity with the Hindu minority in Afghanistan.\n\nIndian analyst Rahul Banerjee said that this was not the first time that Hindus have been singled out for state-sponsored oppression in Afghanistan. Violence against Hindus has caused a rapid depletion in the Hindu population over the years. Since the 1990s many Afghan Hindus have fled the country, seeking asylum in countries such as Germany.\n\nMost of the LTTE's leaders were captured and gunned down at point blank range in May 2009, after which a genocide of Sri Lankan Tamils in the Northern Province, Sri Lanka has started. Even a book, The Tamil Genocide by Sri Lanka has been written on this genocide. Tamils Against Genocide hired US attorney Bruce Fein to file human rights violation charges against two Sri Lankan officials associated with the civil war in Sri Lanka which has reportedly claimed the lives of thousands of civilians.\n\nIn Italy, Hinduism was previously not recognised as a religion, and during Durga Puja celebrations, the Italian police shut down a previously approved Durga Puja celebration in Rome. The affront was seen by some as a statement against alleged persecution of Christians in India.\n\nHowever, on 14 December 2012, Hinduism, along with Buddhism, was recognised and given freedom as a religion not conflicting with the Italian Law, as per Article 8 of the Italian constitution. The move has been hailed as a new milestone for religious freedom and equality between religions.\n\nIn 2005 and 2006 Kazakh officials persistently and repeatedly tried to close down the Hare Krishna farming community near Almaty.\n\nOn 20 November 2006, three buses full of riot police, two ambulances, two empty lorries, and executors of the Karasai district arrived at the community in sub-zero weather and evicted the Hare Krishna followers from thirteen homes, which the police proceeded to demolish.\n\nThe Forum 18 News Service reported, \"Riot police who took part in the destruction threw the personal belongings of the Hare Krishna devotees into the snow, and many devotees were left without clothes. Power for lighting and heating systems had been cut off before the demolition began. Furniture and larger household belongings were loaded onto trucks. Officials said these possessions would be destroyed. Two men who tried to prevent the bailiffs from entering a house to destroy it were seized by 15 police officers who twisted their hands and took them away to the police car.\"\n\nThe Hare Krishna community had been promised that no action would be taken before the report of a state commission – supposedly set up to resolve the dispute – was made public. On the day the demolition began, the commission's chairman, Amanbek Mukhashev, told Forum 18, \"I know nothing about the demolition of the Hare Krishna homes – I'm on holiday.\" He added, \"As soon as I return to work at the beginning of December we will officially announce the results of the Commission's investigation.\" Other officials also refused to comment.\n\nThe United States urged Kazakhstan's authorities to end what it called an \"aggressive\" campaign against the country's tiny Hare Krishna community.\n\nApproximately nine percent of the population of Malaysia are Tamil Indians, of whom nearly 90 percent are practising Hindus. Indian settlers came to Malaysia from Tamil Nadu in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Between April to May 2006, several Hindu temples were demolished by city hall authorities in the country, accompanied by violence against Hindus. On 21 April 2006, the Malaimel Sri Selva Kaliamman Temple in Kuala Lumpur was reduced to rubble after the city hall sent in bulldozers.\n\nThe president of the Consumers Association of Subang and Shah Alam in Selangor State has been helping to organise efforts to stop the local authorities in the Muslim dominated city of Shah Alam from demolishing a 107-year-old Hindu temple. The growing Islamization in Malaysia is a cause for concern to many Malaysians who follow minority religions such as Hinduism. On 11 May 2006, armed city hall officers from Kuala Lumpur forcefully demolished part of a 60-year-old suburban temple that serves more than 1,000 Hindus. The \"Hindu Rights Action Force\", a coalition of several NGO's, have protested these demolitions by lodging complaints with the Malaysian Prime Minister. Many Hindu advocacy groups have protested what they allege is a systematic plan of temple cleansing in Malaysia. The official reason given by the Malaysian government has been that the temples were built \"illegally\". However, several of the temples are centuries old.\nAccording to a lawyer for the Hindu Rights Action Task Force, a Hindu temple is demolished in Malaysia once every three weeks.\n\nMalaysian Muslims have also grown more anti-Hindu over the years. In response to the proposed construction of a temple in Selangor, Muslims chopped off the head of a cow to protest, with leaders saying there would be blood if a temple was constructed in Shah Alam.\n\nLaws in the country, especially those concerning religious identity, are generally slanted towards compulsion into converting to Islam.\n\nOn 24 March 2005, Saudi authorities destroyed religious items found in a raid on a makeshift Hindu shrine found in an apartment in Riyadh.\n\nHindus in Fiji constitute approximately 38% of the country's population. During the late 1990s there were several riots against Hindus by radical elements in Fiji. In the Spring of 2000, the democratically elected Fijian government led by Prime Minister Mahendra Chaudhry was held hostage by a guerilla group, headed by George Speight. They were demanding a segregated state exclusively for the native Fijians, thereby legally abolishing any rights the Hindu inhabitants have now. The majority of Fijian land is reserved for the ethnically Fijian community. Since the practitioners of Hindu faith are predominantly Indians, racist attacks by the extremist Fijian Nationalists too often culminated into violence against the institutions of Hinduism. According to official reports, attacks on Hindu institutions increased by 14% compared to 2004. Hindus and Hinduism, being labelled the \"outside others,\" especially in the aftermath of the May 2000 coup, have been victimised by Fijian fundamentalist and nationalists who wish to create a theocratic Christian state in Fiji. This intolerance towards Hindus has found expression in anti-Hindu speeches and destruction of temples, the two most common forms of immediate and direct violence against Hindus. Between 2001 and April 2005, one hundred cases of temple attacks have been registered with the police. The alarming increase of temple destruction has spread fear and intimidation among the Hindu minorities and has hastened immigration to neighbouring Australia and New Zealand. Organised religious institutions, such as the Methodist Church of Fiji, have repeatedly called for the creation of a theocratic Christian State and have propagated anti-Hindu sentiment.\n\nThe Methodist church of Fiji repeatedly calls for the creation of a Christian State since a coup d'état in 1987 and has stated that those who are not Christian should be \"tolerated as long as they obey Christian law\".\n\nThe Methodist Church of Fiji specifically objects to the constitutional protection of minority religious communities such as Hindus and Muslims. State favouritism of Christianity, and systematic attacks on temples, are some of the greatest threats faced by Fijian Hindus. Despite the creation of a human rights commission, the plight of Hindus in Fiji continues to be precarious.\n\nDuring the initial decades of Indian indenture, Indian cultural forms were met with either contempt or indifference by the Christian majority. Hindus have made many contributions to Trinidad's history and culture even though the state historically regarded Hindus as second class citizens. Hindus in Trinidad struggled over the granting of adult franchise, the Hindu marriage bill, the divorce bill, the cremation ordinance, and other discriminatory laws. After Trinidad's independence from colonial rule, Hindus were marginalised by the African-based People's National Movement. The opposing party, the People's Democratic party, was portrayed as a \"Hindu group\", and Hindus were castigated as a \"recalcitrant and hostile minority\". The displacement of PNM from power in 1985 would improve the situation.\n\nIntensified protests over the course of the 1980s led to an improvement in the state's attitudes towards Hindus. The divergence of some of the fundamental aspects of local Hindu culture, the segregation of the Hindu community from Trinidad, and the disinclination to risk erasing the more fundamental aspects of what had been constructed as \"Trinidad Hinduism\" in\nwhich the identity of the group had been rooted, would often generate dissension when certain dimensions of Hindu culture came into contact with the State. While the incongruences continue to generate debate, and often conflict, it is now tempered with growing awareness and consideration on the part of the state to the Hindu minority. Hindus have been also been subjected to persistent proselytisation by Christian missionaries.\nSpecifically the evangelical and Pentecostal Christians. Such activities reflect racial tensions that at times arise between the Christianized Afro-Trinidadian and Hindu Indo-Trinidadian communities.\n\nHindus constitute 0.7% of the total population of the United States. They are also the most affluent religious group. Hindus in the US enjoy both \"de jure\" and \"de facto\" legal equality. However, a series of attacks were committed against people of Indian origin by a street gang called the \"Dotbusters\" in New Jersey in 1987, the dot signifying the Bindi dot sticker worn on the forehead by Indian women. The lackadaisical attitude of the local police prompted the South Asian community to arrange small groups all across the state to fight back against the street gang. The perpetrators have been put to trial. On 2 January 2012, a Hindu worship center in New York City was firebombed.\n\nThe Dotbusters was a hate group in Jersey City, New Jersey, that attacked and threatened South Asians in the fall of 1987. The name originated from the fact that traditional Hindu women and girls wear a bindi on their forehead.\n\nIn October 1987, a group of youths attacked Navroze Mody, an Indian man of Parsi (Persian) origin, who was mistaken for a Hindu, after he had left the Gold Coast Cafe with his friend who fell into a coma. Mody died four days later. The four convicted of the attack were Luis Acevedo, Ralph Gonzalez and Luis Padilla - who were convicted of aggravated assault; and William Acevedo - who was convicted of simple assault. The attack was with fists and feet and with an unknown object that was described as either a baseball bat or a brick, and occurred after members of the group, which was estimated as being between ten and twelve youths, had surrounded Mr. Mody and taunted him for his baldness as either \"Kojak\" or \"baldie\". Mody's father, Jamshid Mody, later brought charges against the city and police force of Hoboken, New Jersey, claiming that \"the Hoboken police's indifference to acts of violence perpetrated against Asian Indians violated Navroze Mody's equal protection rights\" under the Fourteenth Amendment. Mody lost the case; the court ruled that the attack had not been proven a hate crime, nor had there been proven any malfeasance by the police or prosecutors of the city.\n\nA few days after the attack on Mody, another Indian was beaten into a coma; this time on a busy street corner in Jersey City Heights. The victim, Kaushal Saran, was found unconscious at Central and Ferry Avenues, near a city park and firehouse, according to police reports. Saran, a licensed physician in India who was awaiting licensing in the United States, was discharged later from University Hospital in Newark. The unprovoked attack left Saran in a partial coma for over a week with severe damage to his skull and brain. In September 1992, Thomas Kozak, Martin Ricciardi, and Mark Evangelista were brought to trial on federal civil rights charges in connection with the attack on Saran. However, the three were acquitted of the charges in two separate trials in 1993. Saran testified at both trials that he could not remember the incident.\n\nThe Dotbusters were primarily based in New York and New Jersey and committed most of their crimes in Jersey City. A number of perpetrators have been brought to trial for these assaults. Although tougher anti-hate crime laws were passed by the New Jersey legislature in 1990, the attacks continued, with 58 cases of hate crimes against Indians in New Jersey reported in 1991.\n\nIn 2013 a Hindu Temple in Surrey had 3 windows smashed. A baseball bat found there after the attack had Sikh markings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43742178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43742178", "title": "Piper Chapman", "text": "Piper Chapman\n\nPiper Elizabeth Chapman is a fictional character (played by Taylor Schilling) and the protagonist of the Netflix series \"Orange Is the New Black\". She is based on Piper Kerman, author of the non-fiction book \"\", upon which the series is based. Schilling was nominated for awards in both comedy and drama categories for this role.\n\nA Boston-bred Smith College grad, Piper Kerman got involved in a relationship with an international drug smuggler, Catherine Cleary Wolters. Chapman's girlfriend in the series, Alex Vause, is based on Wolters, whom Kerman met circa 1991 in Northampton, Massachusetts. Eventually, 24-year-old Kerman flew a suitcase of money from the United States to Belgium for a West African drug lord and was named five years later as part of the drug ring. As part of her plea bargain, she declared that she made three overseas trips on behalf of the drug ring. After breaking up with Wolters, Kerman met Larry Smith and got engaged before being charged by the feds in 1998 and striking a deal. She spent 13 months in a Danbury, Connecticut women's prison, FCI Danbury. Kerman actually had a six-year delay between being sentenced to prison and entering prison in 2004. The show is based on Kerman's 2010 book \"\" about her year in a minimum security federal women's prison. Chapman's fiance, Larry Bloom, is based on Smith, Kerman's real life boyfriend and eventual husband.\n\nSeries creator Jenji Kohan had initially considered casting Katie Holmes in the role, but decided against it as Holmes had too many commitments. Ultimately Kohan cast Taylor Schilling.\n\nChapman is a 31-year-old White Anglo-Saxon Protestant who is sentenced to 15 months in prison for carrying a bag of drug-money ($50,000) to Belgium for her girlfriend, Alex Vause. Prior to prison, Chapman owned an artisanal bath soap business in Brooklyn. She comes from a wealthy family, and was a debutante as a teenager. She is originally from Connecticut. Chapman is bisexual, and in college was in a relationship with Alex Vause (Laura Prepon), a drug smuggler. 10 years prior to the series' beginning, she carried drug money from Colombia to Belgium with Vause. Eventually, Chapman grew disenchanted with Vause's lifestyle and broke up with her. She then began dating Larry Bloom (Jason Biggs), to whom she got engaged.\n\nPiper is one of very few emphatically atheist inmates on the show. She responds to a request that she baptise herself by saying that she cannot pretend to believe in a god, saying that while it might make her happier if she believed in a religion, she \"needs it to be true\", and instead looks to science to explain the world. In another episode, when confronted on the subject again, she clarifies that \"I've always thought agnostic was a sort of cop-out... If I had to label it I'd say that I'm a secular humanist.\"\n\nIn 2018, Schilling stated that while Walter White of \"Breaking Bad\" was written with having a rationale for each action, \"Piper’s behavior oftentimes feels groundless\" and \"the audience can’t quite grab onto Piper’s behavior. It seems like it’s coming out of nowhere.\"\n\nChapman is sentenced to 15 months in Litchfield Prison for Criminal conspiracy and Money laundering; Vause had been arrested and named Chapman as an accomplice in order to reduce her own sentence. On her first day, Chapman gets felt up by guard George \"Pornstache\" Mendez (Pablo Schreiber) and unintentionally offends prison matriarch Red (Kate Mulgrew), who runs the prison cafeteria. Red starves Chapman to make an example of her, and the other inmates are too intimidated to help except for Crazy Eyes (Uzo Aduba). Nonetheless, Chapman resists Crazy Eyes' subsequent advances, and makes amends with Red by making her lotion to help her back. She befriends Nicky Nichols (Natasha Lyonne), who becomes her confidante and protector. She also discovers Vause is sentenced to the same prison.\n\nChapman is assigned to the prison electrical workshop and accidentally steals a screwdriver. Her cellmate Miss Claudette (Michelle Hurst) helps her evade the guards' searches. In order to ingratiate herself with the other inmates, Chapman offers to review their appeal letters.\n\nAlthough Bloom learns that Vause was the informant who gave Chapman up, he does not share this information with her. Chapman then rekindles her relationship with Vause. Meanwhile, Bloom, an aspiring writer, publishes a story about Chapman's incarceration that paints unflattering portraits of her fellow inmates and the prison staff. The article earns Chapman the ire of both the guards and the other prisoners, and puts a severe strain on her already fading relationship with Bloom.\n\nChapman is elected to the prison council, but finds that the only change she is able to make is to get the track reopened for Janae Watson (Vicky Jeudy) who was put in solitary confinement during the screwdriver incident. Chapman makes an enemy of Tiffany \"Pennsatucky\" Doggett (Taryn Manning), who wanted her spot on the council. Doggett tells inmate counselor Sam Healy (Michael J. Harney) about Chapman and Vause's relationship; Healy punishes her by putting her in solitary confinement and telling Bloom about the affair. Bloom gets back at Chapman by doing an interview on NPR that casts Litchfield in a harsh light, which makes her even more unpopular. During an angry phone call, Bloom reveals that Vause informed on her. Vause asks Chapman to choose between her and Bloom. Chapman chooses Bloom, but Vause breaks them up and spurns Chapman. When Doggett attacks Chapman with a shiv, Chapman finally snaps and beats her to a pulp.\n\nAfter spending a month in solitary confinement, Chapman is flown to Chicago to serve as a witness against the drug kingpin who had been Vause's boss. There, she spends time in a maximum security prison with dangerous inmates who menace her daily. Also in episode 1, \"Thirsty Bird\", we see Chapman as a young girl (Clare Foley) in a flashback, discovering that her father is cheating on her mother. Vause persuades Chapman to commit perjury in order to keep them safe from the drug lord, but ultimately cuts a deal to testify against her former boss in return for early release; she then leaves Chapman to suffer the consequences of her perjured testimony alone. In episode 3, \"Hugs Can Be Deceiving\", we find out that Crazy Eyes had run outside and knocked Chapman unconscious after she had beaten up Doggett at the end of season 1. In episode 6, \"You Also Have a Pizza\", Chapman starts a prison newsletter, and makes a deal with a reporter to investigate the financial goings on at the prison. She eventually uncovers evidence that assistant warden Natalie Figueroa (Alysia Reiner) has been embezzling from the prison. To keep her quiet, Figueroa arranges for Chapman to be transferred to a facility in Virginia. However, when Chapman gives prison administrator Joe Caputo (Nick Sandow) the evidence implicating Figueroa, he cancels the transfer and gives the warden the incriminating information, resulting in Figueroa's resignation.\n\nChapman gets a furlough to go to her grandmother's funeral. At home in New York City, she realizes that Larry has lost interest in her, and soon learns that he has fallen in love with her best friend, Polly Harper (Maria Dizzia). Chapman is furious at first, but eventually agrees to give them her blessing in return for either of them telling Vause's parole officer that Vause is going to break parole, which will land her back in Litchfield prison\n\nChapman begins a business selling used panties to people outside of Litchfield, enlisting her brother Cal as her middleman. Chapman begins a romantic relationship with an Australian prisoner, Stella. After Stella steals Chapman's money, she plants contraband in Stella's bunk and orchestrates her being sent to the maximum security unit in retaliation the day before Stella's release date.\n\nChapman continues her panty business but finds herself in competition with a group of Dominicans led by Maria Ruiz. When Chapman aligns herself with a gang of white supremacists and plants contraband in Maria's bunk, Maria retaliates by kidnapping her and having her branded with a swastika.\n\nAccording to Todd VanDerWerff of Vox Media's Vox.com Chapman was a character with \"tricky contradictions and likability issues\". In reviewing season 1, Matthew Wolfson \"Slant Magazine\" describes Chapman as \"a familiar vessel through which to comprehend prison's unfamiliar terrain\". Over the course of the first season, the show becomes less focused on Chapman, according to James Poniewozik of \"Time\". \"The Boston Globe\" describes Chapman's assimilation into prison as a display of \"Martha Stewart-like efforts to survive\". At the time of the Golden Globe Award nomination, \"Entertainment Weekly\" described Chapman in prison as a woman who was \"totally out of her element\" and said that the role was dichotomous with demands to \"vacillate between being sympathy-worthy and trying fans’ patience with Chapman’s entitlement\". Tom Meltzer of \"The Guardian\" wrote \"Chapman's romantic and rebellious re-awakening drives the show, but it is the ensemble that kept us coming back for more\".\n\nBy season 2, Piper remained a main character of an ensemble cast but not the central character according to IGN's Matt Fowler. Liz Raftery of \"TV Guide\" says \"There's a lot going on in Season 2 of Netflix's Orange Is the New Black, and very little of it has to do with Piper Chapman\". Rob Sheffield of \"Rolling Stone\" considered that the show's ensemble focus has turned Piper into \"dead weight\" and \"nobody would argue that an early parole for her would hurt the show\". As he reviewed season 2, \"The Huffington Post\" Canada entertainment editor Chris Jancelewicz, opined that \"Schilling's deadpan expressions and snap comedic timing help us empathize and grow to love her\" as her character became more understandable. Alicia Lutes of \"MTV\" wrote that as of Season 2 the show is about Piper understanding herself and her capabilities better \"even if those abilities put her further in the muck\" and not about her possible reformation.\n\nSarene Leeds of \"The Wall Street Journal\" stated that in Season 3 Piper changed from being \"a gangsta wannabe into a dangerous villain that is not to be crossed\" after planting contraband in girlfriend Stella's bed to get her sent to the maximum security unit in retaliation for Stella stealing from her; Leeds argued that the change \"is a necessary plot device to keep things interesting\" even though she did not like the new version of Piper. Drew Millard of \"Vice\" wrote that Season 3 Piper went \"completely off the deep end\" and changed \"into the most unlikable version of herself\", making her \"deadweight on a show that was at first strictly about her.\" Kerman stated that even though she still found the series to be entertaining, she could no longer relate to Piper Chapman. Sadie Gennis of \"TV Guide\" also suggested removing Chapman from the show.\n\nSchilling has been nominated for awards in both comedy and drama categories: Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series at the 66th Primetime Emmy Awards and Best Actress – Television Series Drama at the 71st Golden Globe Awards and won Best Actress – Television Series Musical or Comedy at the 18th Satellite Awards for her season 1 performance. Her season 2 performance earned a 72nd Golden Globe Awards nomination for Best Actress – Television Series Musical or Comedy, and a 19th Satellite Awards nomination for Best Actress – Television Series Musical or Comedy. Her season 3 performance won Best Actress – Television Series Musical or Comedy at the 20th Satellite Awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "185096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185096", "title": "Pontiff", "text": "Pontiff\n\nA pontiff (from Latin \"pontifex\") was, in Roman antiquity, a member of the most illustrious of the colleges of priests of the Roman religion, the College of Pontiffs. The term \"pontiff\" was later applied to any high or chief priest and, in Roman Catholic ecclesiastical usage, to a bishop and more particularly to the Bishop of Rome, the Pope or \"Roman Pontiff\".\nThe English term derives through Old French \"pontif\" from Latin \"pontifex\", a word commonly held to come from the Latin root words \"pons\" (bridge) + \"facere\" (to do, to make), and so to have the literal meaning of \"bridge-builder\". This may be only a folk etymology, but it may also recall antique tasks and magic rites associated with bridges.\n\nThere were four chief colleges of priests in ancient Rome, the most illustrious of which was that of the \"pontifices\". The others were those of the \"augures\", the \"quindecimviri sacris faciundis\", and the \"epulones\". The same person could be a member of more than one of these groups. Including the \"pontifex maximus\", who was president of the college, there were originally three or five \"pontifices\", but the number increased over the centuries, finally becoming 16 under Julius Caesar. By the third century B.C., the pontiffs had assumed control of the state religious system.\n\nThe word \"pontiff\", though now most often used in relation to a Pope, technically refers to any bishop. The phrase \"Roman Pontiff\" is not tautological, but means \"Bishop of Rome\", as \"Alexandrian Pontiff\" means Bishop of Alexandria. In the same way, the adjective \"pontifical\" does not refer exclusively to the Pope: a Pontifical Mass is a Mass celebrated by a bishop, not necessarily by a pope. From the adjective have been formed the nouns \"the Pontifical\" (the liturgical book containing the prayers and ceremonies for rites used by a bishop) and \"pontificals\" (the insignia of his order that a bishop uses when celebrating Pontifical Mass, not papal insignia, such as the papal tiara). Furtheron, while the pontificals primarily belong to bishops (as the name implies), they have also been granted by Papal favour or legally established Church custom to certain presbyters (e. g., abbots), and so (say) an abbot who (say) confers the Sacrament of Confirmation as extraordinary distributor, celebrating a Pontifical Mass at the occasion, might also be referred to as \"the pontiff\" (that is, celebrant of the Pontifical Mass) in this respect.\n\nInspiration for the Christian use of the name \"pontiff\" for a bishop could be found in the use of the same word (in Latin, \"pontifex\", not \"pontifex maximus\") for the Jewish High Priest in the Vulgate Latin translation of the Scriptures, where it appears 59 times. For example, in the Vulgate , \"pontifices\" (plural) is the Latin term used for \"The Chief Priests\", and in the Letter to the Hebrews \"pontifex\" (singular) is repeatedly used with reference to the Jewish High Priest and analogously to Jesus as the High Priest of Christians.\n\nThe word has been employed in English also for caliphs (Islam) and swamis and jagadgurus (Hinduism).\n\n"}
{"id": "42649558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42649558", "title": "Principality of Ushrusana", "text": "Principality of Ushrusana\n\nThe Principality of Ushrusana (also spelled \"Usrushana\" and \"Osrushana\") was a local Iranian dynasty of Sogdian origin, which ruled the Ushrusana region from an unknown date to 892. The rulers of the principality were known by their title of \"Afshin\".\n\nUshrusana was a frontier province in Central Asia, bordering the lands of Islam during the Umayyad and early Abbasid caliphates. It was situated between the districts of Samarkand in the west and Khujand to the east, and was somewhat south of the Syr Darya River. As a result of its location, several roads ran through it, making the province a frequent stop for travelers. The terrain of the country consisted of a mixture of plains and mountains; some districts of Ushrusana had towns, but overall the region was little urbanized. The primary city was Bunjikath, which was often referred to as the City of Ushrusana.\n\nUshrusana is first mentioned during the Muslim conquest of Transoxiana, and was at times nominally subject to the Caliphate, but it remained effectively independent. Several Umayyad governors conducted raids into the country and received tribute from its rulers, but permanent conquest was not achieved by them. After the Abbasids came to power in 750, the princes of Ushrusana made submissions to the caliphs during the reigns of al-Mahdi (r. 775–785) and Harun al-Rashid (r. 786–809), but these appear to have been nominal acts and the people of the region continued to resist Muslim rule.\n\nUshrusana was more firmly brought under Abbasid control following a quarrel that broke out within the ruling dynasty, during the caliphate of al-Ma'mun (r. 813–833). In 822, a Muslim army under Ahmad ibn Abi Khalid al-Ahwal conquered Ushrusana and captured its ruler Kawus ibn Kharakhuruh; he was sent to Baghdad, where he submitted to the caliph and converted to Islam. From this point on, Ushrusana was generally considered to be part of the Abbasid state, although the \"afshin\"s were allowed to retain their control over the country as subjects of the caliph.\n\nKawus was succeeded by his son Khaydar, who had assisted Ahmad ibn Abi Khalid in his campaign against Ushrusana. Khaydar, who is usually referred to in the sources simply as al-Afshin, decided to enter the service of the Abbasids and made his way to al-Ma'mun's court. There he embarked on a military career, and became a commander in the caliphal army. With Afshin came a number of his followers, a number of whom were fellow natives of Ushrusana. These men were integrated into the army and, serving under their prince, became known as the \"Ushrusaniyya\". However, Afshin later tried to gain control over all of Khurasan and Transoxiana from the Persian Tahirid dynasty. He even secretly supported Mazyar, the Karenid ruler of Tabaristan, who had rebelled against the Abbasids. The rebellion, however, was soon suppressed, and Afshin's ambitions were revealed by the Abbasids. Furthermore, Afshin was accused of being a Zoroastrian, and he was soon imprisoned and died. His successor is not known; however, the Afshin family continued to rule Ushrusana until 892, when the Samanid ruler Isma'il ibn Ahmad incorporated Ushrusana into his Empire and killed its ruler, Sayyar ibn 'Abdallah.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16910545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16910545", "title": "Religion in Antigua and Barbuda", "text": "Religion in Antigua and Barbuda\n\nAccording to the 2001 census, which has the most reliable figures available, 74 percent of the population of Antigua and Barbuda is Christian. The Anglican Church is the largest religious denomination, accounting for an estimated 26 percent of the population. The Roman Catholic, Pentecostal churches, Moravian, Methodist and Seventh-day Adventist Church account for less than 10 percent each.\n\nThe Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice. The US government documented no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice in their 2007 religious freedom report, and prominent societal leaders took positive steps to promote religious freedom.\n\n"}
{"id": "12101107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12101107", "title": "Religion in Lithuania", "text": "Religion in Lithuania\n\nAs per the 2011 census, the predominant religion in Lithuania is Christianity, with the largest confession being that of the Catholic Church (about 77% of the population is Catholic according to the 2011 census). There are also smaller groups of Orthodox Christians, Evangelical Lutherans, members of Reformed churches, other Protestants, Jews and Muslims as well as people of other faiths. \n\nAccording to the 2010 Eurobarometer Poll, 47% of Lithuanian citizens responded that \"they believe there is a God\", 37% answered that \"they believe there is some sort of spirit or life force\", and 12% said that \"they do not believe there is any sort of spirit, god, or life force\".\n\nThe first census in independent Lithuania, in 1923, established the fallowing religious distribution: Catholic — 85.7 per cent; Jews — 7.7 per cent; Protestant — 3.8 per cent; Greek Orthodox — 2.7 per cent.\nAs per the 2011 census:\n\n\nAs per the 2011 census, 77.2% of Lithuanians belong to the Catholic Church. Catholic Church has claimed the adherence of the majority of Lithuania since the Christianization of Lithuania in the 14th and 15th centuries. Lithuania kept her Catholic identity under the Russian Empire and later under the Soviet Union when some Catholic priests led the resistance against the Communist regime, which is commemorated in the Hill of Crosses near Šiauliai, a shrine to the anti-communist resistance.\n\nThe center of Greek Catholic life in Lithuania is the Basilian Monastery and Church of the Holy Trinity in Vilnius. In the past, the monastery was multiethnic but now serves a mostly Ukrainian community. \n\nProtestants are 0.8%, of which 0.6% are Lutheran and 0.2% are Reformed. According to Losch (1932), the Lutherans were 3.3% of the total population; they were mainly Germans in the Memel territory (now Klaipėda). There was also a tiny Reformed community (0.5%) which still persists. Protestantism has declined with the removal of the German population, and today it is mainly represented by ethnic Lithuanians throughout the northern and western parts of the country, as well as large urban areas. Believers and clergy suffered greatly during the Soviet occupation, with many killed, tortured or deported to Siberia. Newly arriving evangelical churches have established missions in Lithuania since 1990.\n\nProtestants make up 0.8% of the population, with 0.56% belonging to the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Lithuania.\n\nLutheranism in Lithuania dates back to the 16th century, when it came mainly from the neighbouring German-controlled areas of Livonia and East Prussia. A Synod in Vilnius united the church in 1557. The parish network covered nearly all of the Grand Duchy, with district centers in Vilnius, Kedainai, Biržai, Slucke, Kojdanove and Zabludove later Izabeline. Small Protestant communities are dispersed throughout the northern and western parts of the country.\n\nThe majority of Prussian Lithuanians living in East Prussia and in Memelland (since 1945 the Klaipėda Region of Lithuania) belonged to the Evangelical Church of the old-Prussian Union. Most resettled in the West Germany after World War II along with the ethnic German inhabitants.\n\nSince 1945, Lutheranism in Lithuania has declined largely due to the ongoing secularization that sweeps throughout Europe.\n\nThe Lithuanian Evangelical Reformed Church is a historic denomination it was founded in 1557. Notable member was Szymon Zajcusz. In the second half of the 16th century the Unitarians separated. The denomination has over 7000 members in 14 congregations. The church is a member of the World Communion of Reformed Churches and the World Reformed Fellowship\n\nVarious Protestant churches have established missions in Lithuania since 1990, including the United Methodists, the Baptist Union, the Mennonites, \nand World Venture.\n\nEastern Orthodoxy claims 4.1% of the population, mainly from the Russian minority.\n\nMost of Armenians in Lithuania, making up about 0.1% of population according to own estimates belong to the Armenian Apostolic Church, which is often classified as an Oriental Orthodox Church, in distinction from Eastern Orthodox (to which the main Russian, Greek and Georgian Churches belong). \n\nAn Armenian Apostolic Church St. Vardan was opened in Vilnius in 2006.\n\nIn Lithuania, Islam has a long history unlike many other northern European countries. The medieval Grand Duchy of Lithuania of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth allowed Muslims, notably the Crimean Tatars to settle in the lands in the south. Some of people from those lands were moved into ethnically Lithuanian lands, now the current Republic of Lithuania, mainly under the rule of Grand Duke Vytautas. The Tatars, now referred to as Lithuanian Tatars, lost their language over time and now speak Lithuanian as natives; however, they have strongly maintained their Muslim faith.\n\nThe Lithuanian Jewish community has roots that go back to before the time of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. Lithuania was historically home to a large Jewish community and an important center of Jewish scholarship and culture from the 18th century until the community was almost entirely eliminated during the Holocaust. Before World War II, the Lithuanian Jewish population numbered some 160,000, about 7% of the total population. Vilnius alone had a Jewish community of nearly 100,000, about 45% of the city's total population with over 110 synagogues and 10 yeshivot in the city.\n\nThere are still communities of Jews of Lithuanian descent around the world, especially in Israel, the United States, South Africa, Zimbabwe, Brazil and Australia.\n\nAccording to the 2001 census, there were 1,272 adherents of Rabbinic and Karaite Judaism. About 4,000 Jews were counted in Lithuania during the 2005 census.\n\nAccording to a Karaite tradition several hundred Crimean Karaites were invited to Lithuania by Grand Duke Vytautas to settle in Trakai ca. 1397. A small community remains in Trakai today, which has preserved the Turkic Karaim language and distinctive customs, such as its traditional dish called \"kibinai\", a sort of meat pastry, and its houses with three windows, one for God, one for the family, and one for Grand Duke Vytautas.\n\nMedieval Lithuania was the last pagan nation in Europe, officially converting in the 14th century. The neo-pagan movement Romuva, established in 1967, attempts to reconstruct and revive Lithuanian paganism.\n\n"}
{"id": "2069029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2069029", "title": "Santo Daime hymns", "text": "Santo Daime hymns\n\nSacred music and dance are fundamental to the Santo Daime religion. The earliest hymns are those of the founder, Raimundo Irineu Serra - 'Mestre Irineu'. While the rituals and music originated with a very few hymns, sung by a small group in the Brazilian Amazon, the practice of these spiritual works in diverse parts of the world since it began expansion around the beginning of the 1990s has given rise to a significant body of music, in many languages. Daimistas from Brazil and other countries have contributed to this growing genre, while continuing to sing the principle hinarios in Portuguese. \n\nAmong adherents to the doctrine, songs tend to be referred to as 'received' from a spiritual source rather than written from the writers mind alone and confirmed by their use in ritual. Variously these hymns may be viewed as 'calling' energies or divine entities, as transmitting sacred doctrine, as bringing healing through the act of singing what the community is affirming are eternal truths. In the spiritual works and communities of Santo Daime, the hymns are a bond of shared understanding and a daily practice. New hymns are often introduced in ceremony by those who receive them, by the leader's invitation.\n\nA Santo Daime hinário (Portuguese) or \"hymn-book (hinario)\", can be a life work of its owner, chronicling that person's spiritual journey. During a ritual, one or several hinários or compilations may be sung in their entirety. While they are sung outside of the rituals in ensaio (practice) and listened to in various settings, the real distinction of is genre is that it is intended to be sung in ritual, by a group going into what is understood to be spiritual work of transformation. The hymns can be seen as integral to the ritual, the transformation, and the revealed messages as each person understands them. Hinarios that are central to the doctrine may be sung once or several times per year, and practiced many times more.\n\nMestre Irineu on the Virgin of Conception (Dec. 7), Christmas, Day of Kings (January 6), St. John (June 23). The hinario of Padrinho Sebastiao is sung on Irineu's birthday (Dec. 15), Saint Sebastian (January 19), Madrinha Rita's birthday (June 25), as well as Brazilian Father's Day. Padrinho Alfredo's hinario is sung on Padrinho Alfredo's birthday (January 7), St. Joseph (March 18), and Saint Peter (June 28), as well as New Year's Eve (December 31)\n\n'O Cruzeiro' (The Cross), 'Cruzeirinho' (The Little Cross) and 'A Santa Missa' (The Holy Mass)\n\nThe first part of Mestre Irineu's hinário, O Cruzeiro, contains hymns up to number 116. After an interval of 11 years he received hymns 117 through 128, which are now known as the Cruzeirinho or occasionally as the \"Hinos Novos\". After the time of Mestre Irineu it became a more common practice to finish or close an hinario as a complete work, after which a new hinario might be received.\n\n'O Justiceiro' and 'Nova Jerusalem' (The New Jerusalem)\n\nNova Jerusalem is the second and final hinario of Padrinho Sebastião, consisting of 26 hymns. \n\n'Lua Branca' (White Moon)\n\nRita Gregório de Melo is the widow of Padrinho Sebastião, matriarch of the CEFLURIS line, mother of 11 children, and lives in Céu do Mapiá. She is thought to have been born 25 June 1925 in Rio Grande do Norte.\n\n'O Convite' (The Invitation)\n\nJúlia Gregório da Silva was born in Açu, Rio Grande do Norte, in 1933. She was the younger sister of Madrinha Rita, and the mother of six children.\n\n'A Mensagem' (The Message)\n\nCristina Raulino da Silva was born in Rio Branco, Acre, in 1938. She married Manuel Gregório (Padrinho Nel), the brother of Madrinha Rita.\n\n'O Cruzerinho', 'Nova Era' (The New Age) and 'Nova Dimensão' \n\nNova Dimensão is the third (yet to be completed) hinario of Padrinho Alfredo.\n\nAlfredo Gregório de Melo, one of the sons of Padrinho Sebastião and Madrinha Rita, today heads the CEFLURIS line which Padrinho Sebastião founded, based in Céu do Mapiá, Amazonas. He was born 7 January 1950 in the seringal (rubber extraction area) Adélia along the Juruá river in the state of Amazonas.\n\nJoão Pedro was a contemporary of Mestre Irineu. All we know is that his strong, healing hinário only became known to Santo Daime after his death.\n\n'O Mensageiro' (The Messenger)\n\nMaria Marques Vieira was born in Belém do Pará, in 1917. She was very young when she moved with her family to Rio Branco, Acre, where she met Mestre Irineu, in the early 1930s. She was sallow and blond with white skin. Maria Damião, as she was known, married and had seven children (one adopted) but lost her husband early. She worked hard to support her family but had many difficulties in her material life, as in her works with Santo Daime. She died of pneumonia, aged just 32 years, on 2 April 1949.\n\n'O Amor Divino' (The Divine Love)\n\nAntônio Gomes da Silva was born in Ceará, 30 April 1885. He married Maria de Nazaré in Ceará, and had five children. He lived in Belém do Pará for a while, and then moved to Rio Branco, Acre, in 1921. He worked as a seringueiro, or rubber tapper, and later as a farmer. He lost his first wife, married again, and had another four children. He met Mestre Irineu in 1938, and he received benefits for his unstable health. Antônio Gomes then became a member of the Santo Daime doctrine, as did his whole family. His son Leôncio became the new leader of Alto Santo, after Mestre Irineu's death, in 1971. His granddaughter, Peregrina Gomes, was the third wife of Mestre Irineu. Antônio Gomes da Silva died 14 August 1946.\n\n'Vós Sois Baliza' (Thou art a Beacon)\n\nGermano Guilherme dos Santos was born in Piauí at the beginning of the 20th century. He moved with his family to Rio Branco, Acre, where he lived on the outskirts of the city working as a farmer. Germano was one of the first disciples of Mestre Irineu, becoming a member of Santo Daime in the 1930s. He was a black man with notably white teeth. Germano had special feelings for Mestre Irineu, and called him maninho, or 'my little brother'. He suffered a disease on his leg that bothered him a lot. Because of this, he couldn't eat some kinds of food. But when he was at maninho's house, Germano ate everything he wanted and didn't feel anything. He was married to Cecília Gomes, the daughter of Antônio Gomes and Maria de Nazaré, but had no children. His hinário is sung at CICLU - Alto Santo along with the O Cruzeiro hinário of Mestre Irineu. Germano Guilherme dos Santos died in 1964.\n\n'Seis de Janeiro' (January 6; which is King's day, or Epiphany)\n\nJoão Pereira was born in Porongaba, Ceará, in the end of the 19th century. Nobody knows the date he moved to Rio Branco, Acre. In the early 1930s, he joined Mestre Irineu, and became one of his first disciples. João Pereira was almost bald, and his complexion was swarthy or similar to that of caboclos, the mixed blood people of the Amazonian region. He worked as a farmer and wagon driver. He lived near Rio Branco and was married with Maria Franco (Maria Marques Feitosa), the mother of the second wife of Mestre Irineu, Raimunda. João Pereira died in 1954.\n\nAfter Mestre Irineu passed on, his last wife's uncle Leôncio Gomes assumed command of the works, and in turn after Leôncio Gomes' passing, Francisco Fernandes Filho (Tetéu or Teteo) took over; however, he apparently very soon quarreled with Mestre Irineu's widow, Dona Peregrina Gomes Serra, and was chased out of Mestre Irineu's house (Alto Santo), according to Edward MacRae. Tetéu then founded a new center less than a kilometer away, declaring himself to be the real CICLU. Following Sr. Luis Mendes' presidency, Tetéu's eventual successor, Mr. João Rodrigues Facundes (who was also involved in the initial dispute), returned the legal name and charter of CICLU to Dona Peregrina. \n\nKnown for sleeping light and little, Tetéu received his nickname after a bird (\"Vanellus chilensis\") commonly called \"Tetéu\" who was also believed to not sleep much. His hinario \"O Assesor\" has 132 hymns, including a number of Daime serving hymns (Eu Tomo Daime, O Daime Me Balançou, Mesa De Centro, Daime é O Nosso Pai, Um, Dois E Três) and is sung in some churches, where it is known, to honor the passing of Mestre Irineu on July 6. Where it is not known well, Mestre Irineu's hinario \"O Cruzeiro,\" is sung (a Capella in the churches of Sr. Luis Mendes). \n\nMaria Brilhante was married with Padrinho Eduardo Salles Freitas, and they had four children, three of whom survive. Madrinha Maria Brilhante received a hinário which is officially sung on the festival of St. Anthony every 12-13 June.\n\n'Guia Mestre' (Master Guide), 'Mensageiros da Cura' (Messengers of Healing),\n'Hinário da Fé' (Hinario of the Faith), 'Estrela D'Água' (Star of the Water. Baixinha's new hinario)\n\nBaixinha, \"tiny\" in Portuguese, is perhaps the best known practitioner of UmbanDaime. She is a small woman of scarcely one and a half meters, who has spent more than forty years in Umbanda, twenty-one in Candomblé, and eighteen years in Santo Daime. Despite her small stature, she was known by many as a true spiritual beacon and traveled extensively, even after she'd become very old. She led a spiritual community in Lumiar, a mountain village two hours from Rio de Janeiro until her passage in 2015 working in two worlds (spiritual and physical) and two doctrines (Daimista and Umbandista).\n\n'O Chaveirinho' & 'O Chaveirão'\n\nHinário received by prominent cartoonist Glauco Villas Boas (March 10, 1957 - March 12, 2010), commander of the Céu de Maria church in São Paulo, and consisting of 41 hymns in O Chaveirinho and 11 in O Chaveirão. \n\nGlauco came from a family of legends, and became a legend in his own right. As one of the most recognizable and timely artists of Brazil in the late 20th century, he formed a bond with fellow cartoonists Laerte and Angeli that produced a significant, massive body of work over decades. As daily political cartoonist for Folha de São Paulo (Sao Paulo's principal daily newspaper), he was looked to by Paulistas to interpret and shed light on the news of the day in his own courageous, take-no-prisoners style. \n\nWhile participating in early works at Flor das Aguas in Itapecerica da Serra (SP), Glauco inaugurated Ceu de Maria in his own home, then built a church on a peak high above Sao Paulo called Pico do Jaraguá. An accomplished musician, he was well known for his fiery accordion playing and said that he had never once practiced outside of ceremony, relying instead on the force of the Daime to pull the music.\n\n'Nova Anunciação'\n\nAlex Polari spent years as a political prisoner during the rule of the military junta in Brazil, enduring torture, brutality, and deprivation. His quest for spiritual initiation eventually led him deep into the heart of the rainforest, to Mapiá, where he became a teacher and leader of the Santo Daime community. He is the author of 'Forest of Visions: Ayahuasca, Amazonian Spirituality, and the Santo Daime Tradition' which has been translated into English.\n\nLuz na Escuridão (A Light In The Darkness) is the hinário received by Paulo Roberto (Paulo Roberto Silva e Souza), padrinho of the Céu do Mar church in Rio de Janeiro, and who is a psychologist by training.\n\nOração simply means prayer. In Daimista communities and households, it is normally sung around 6:30pm, in church or at home, with or without instruments. The oração of CEFLURIS consists of a selection of 12 hymns from Padrinho Sebastião's O Justiceiro hinário (or hymnbook), plus one from his son Padrinho Alfredo's O Cruzeirinho hinário, and a new one from Sebastião's daughter Madrinha Nonata.\n\nThe Cura is a selection of 32 healing hymns in two parts, taken mainly from the hinários of Padrinho Sebastião, Madrinha Rita, and Padrinho Alfredo, but also including a few from Mestre Irineu, Alex Polari, Vera Froes and Madrinha Tetê (Teresa Gregório), often used on occasions when healing is required, in particular physical healing.\n\nFinados is a compendium of the hinarios of Antonio Gomes, Maria Damião, Germano Guilherme and João Pereira, among the earliest followers of Mestre Irineu.\n\n"}
{"id": "39212599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39212599", "title": "Silent-Night-Chapel", "text": "Silent-Night-Chapel\n\nThe Silent Night Chapel (Stille-Nacht-Kapelle) is located in the town of Oberndorf bei Salzburg in the Austrian province of Salzburg, and is a monument to the Christmas carol \"Silent Night\" and its librettist, Joseph Mohr and its composer, Franz Xaver Gruber. It stands on the site of the former St Nicholas's Church, where on 24 December 1818 the Christmas carol was performed for the first time.\n\nThe church of St. Nicholas was damaged several times in the 1890s by flooding of the Salzach - especially by that of 1899, while the predominantly the district Altach destroyed a large part of the town and. This led to the conclusion that the whole of Oberndorf, including the parish church of St Nicholas, needed to be rebuilt about 800 m upstream.\n\nOf refurbishment of damaged St. Nikola Church was apart for two reasons: On the one spared the costs and the threat of continued risk of flooding, on the other hand you wanted the church to accept the built in 1906, move less attractive church in the new town center. Thus, the old parish church was demolished in 1913 and only remembered a debris cone at the historical origin of the now-famous Christmas song far and wide.\nThe 100th anniversary of the song in December 1918 fell at a difficult time immediately after World War I. The more wanted to put the message of peace Mohr and Gruber, a monument to the citizens of Oberndorf. Adopted in 1924, but construction of a memorial chapel was under the difficult conditions (political and economic crises of the First Republic) slowly in the phase of realization. Ultimately, the construction was completed on August 15, 1937 (Assumption). Meanwhile, the Memorial Chapel was the visible symbol of the song \"Silent Night\".\n\nEvery year, around the Memorial Chapel and Museum beside it, especially at Christmas, there are thousands of visitors from around the world. On the 24th of December, every year by 17:00 (5:00 p.m.), a solemn memorial mass is held at the church, and the carol is sung in the many languages of the visitors and seen as a unifying experience. Since 2002, this celebration has been transmitted by means of the local webcam on the Internet.\n\nThe chapel is an octagon in form with a bell helmet and a lantern, and the portal has a hipped roof canopy. The arched windows were created in 1935 by the Tyrolean Stained Glass. The high altar with a relief of the \"Nativity\" is by the sculptor Hermann Hutter, from 1915. The predella (altar base) relief of \"The Adoration of the Magi, The Crucifixion, The Escape from Egypt\" is by the sculptor Max Domenig, from 1936.\n\nReplica models of the Silent Night Chapel exist in the Mini Mundus leisure park at Klagenfurt in Carinthia (1:25 scale) and the model park Mönichkirchen in Lower Austria. Furthermore, there is a 1:1 scale replica in Frankenmuth in the U.S. state of Michigan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54398980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54398980", "title": "Sons of Jacob Cemetery", "text": "Sons of Jacob Cemetery\n\nThe Sons of Jacob Cemetery in rural Ramsey County, North Dakota was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2017. It was the cemetery of the Garske Colony, a farming community of Jewish immigrant homesteaders which was founded in 1883 and operated until about 1925.\n\nJewish homesteaders came from Russia, where they were not allowed to own land, and tried to survive in harsh conditions in North Dakota. Many built sod houses or tarpaper shacks to live in while attempting to prove their land claims for under the Homestead Act.\n\nThere once were nine rural Jewish cemeteries in North Dakota. The cemetery of the largest Jewish farming community in the state, the Ashley Jewish Homesteaders Cemetery, was listed on the National Register in May 2015. The Garske one, the Ashley one, and one in Regan are the only three that are \"not entirely overgrown\" by 2017.\n"}
{"id": "37809845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37809845", "title": "St. Augustine's Episcopal Church (Gary, Indiana)", "text": "St. Augustine's Episcopal Church (Gary, Indiana)\n\nSt. Augustine's Episcopal Church in Gary, Indiana, is a historically black congregation and building in the Episcopal Diocese of Northern Indiana. The congregation was chartered in 1927, and the building, constructed in 1958, was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2013 after being nominated for listing by a parishioner.\n\nThe historically black parish was chartered in 1927 by thirty African American professionals as a Colored Episcopal Mission. St. Augustine's original home was at 19th and Adams in Gary's Midtown section in an old Roman Catholic Mission building. The first service in the congregation's new home was held on May 8, 1959.\n\nInitially the church struggled to hold regular services and maintain attendance. Only seventeen people attended the first service, and for the first decade of the congregation's existence, it was only able to attract part-time priests. In 1938 Episcopal Bishop Campbell Gray assigned Benedictine monks of St. Gregory's Abbey, Three Rivers to serve the struggling mission, and they remained with the church until 1946, two years after Gray's death. A retired rector named Rev. Langendorff headed the church for the next few years until in 1951 Rev. Wallace L. Wells, spouse of Henrietta Bell Wells and newly ordained, assumed leadership.\n\nDuring the 1950s many African-Americans that moved to Gary did so as part of The Great Migration, seeking employment opportunities that were kept from them in the South, and many of these newly relocated African-Americans joined St. Augustine's. With this influx, the congregation grew enough so that by 1955, the church was growing too large to remain in its rented Catholic Mission home. While inquiring about a pipe organ to use in services, the organ sales representative suggested the congregation ask Edward D. Dart, now known as a prolific architect, to design a new building for the congregation. Dart had designed many residential homes in suburban Chicago and had designed one other church in 1953 (St. Michael's Episcopal Church in Barrington, Illinois) before St. Augustine's. Though having Dart design the building is significant in and of itself, the fact that the congregation was able to commission his services is even more significant since they were an African American congregation and Dart was white, a rare combination during segregation.\n\nDart was asked to design a building with a budget of $120,000, which the church was able to afford thanks to a $45,000 cash fund and a $20,000 grant from the National Council of the Protestant Church. Dart's initial design far exceeded this budget with large, ornate stained glass windows that cost $10,000 each, and the parish swiftly rejected it, preferring a more modest, minimalist design. Drawing upon this information, Dart produced a second custom design that was eventually agreed to by the congregation's leadership after discussions that lasted several years.\n\nA new building was constructed from Dart's designs in 1958 at the corner of 19th and Ellsworth in the Tolleston section of Gary, and immediately attracted widespread recognition. In 1960 the building won awards from the American Institute of Architects and the Church Architectural Guild. Several magazines and newspapers including the Chicago Tribune ran articles about the building shortly after its completion due to its perceived architectural beauty, but few mentioned the fact that the congregation it housed was African American. Most of the pictures published about the building omitted any of the church's members.\n\nSt. Augustine's advanced to parish status in 1961, a full two years after the new building was completed.\n\n\nDesigned by renowned Mid-Century Modern architect Edward D. Dart, FAIA in 1958, the architecturally significant church garnered two architectural awards shortly after its construction. St. Augustine's successfully employs the use of Indiana limestone, wood and stained glass clerestory windows. The building was the first of Dart's commissioned designs to be nominated to the National Register of Historic Places; it was listed on September 18, 2013. At the time of the listing, St. Augustine's was Gary's only postwar modern church structure. The building was also given a $2,000 African American Heritage Grant from Indiana Landmarks to aid it in its preservation efforts.\n\n"}
{"id": "18470304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18470304", "title": "Vati-Con scandal", "text": "Vati-Con scandal\n\nThe Vati-Con Scandal involved accusations that Italian real estate developer Raffaello Follieri misappropriated a $50 million investment from Bill Clinton and billionaire Ronald Burkle meant to buy Roman Catholic churches in the United States. Follieri ultimately pleaded guilty to federal criminal charges in the U.S. and was sentenced to prison.\n\nOn July 15, 2008, Bishop Joseph Anthony Galante of the Diocese of Camden, New Jersey, was implicated in the scandal by a \"New York Post\" article titled \"A Deal with the Devil\" that revealed that Follieri had bought Galante's beach house for $400,000 in 2007 shortly after Galante began the study that resulted in his 2008 announcement to sell off half of the Diocese's church properties. Following disclosure of the bishop's involvement in Vati-Con, the Council of Parishes of Southern New Jersey demanded \"a complete halt to the Bishop’s planned church closure program\". The Galante/Follieri beach house was put back on the market in 2008 and sold almost two years later for $310,000.\n\nOn July 24, 2008, the \"New York Daily News\" reported that during a second raid of Follieri's apartment in New York City, the FBI had confiscated the private journals of Follieri's former girlfriend, American film actress Anne Hathaway, as part of their ongoing investigation into the scandal. Hathaway did not face any charges related to the scandal.\n\nIn October 2008, Follieri pleaded guilty in Manhattan to the charges, and Federal Judge John Koeltl imposed a 4½ year prison sentence. He was released on May 25, 2012, from a federal prison in Pennsylvania. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Immigration and Customs Enforcement deported Follieri to Italy on May 25, 2012, immediately after his release from prison.\n"}
{"id": "17756265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17756265", "title": "Wilfrid Harrington", "text": "Wilfrid Harrington\n\nWilfrid John Harrington (born 1927 in Ireland) is an Irish Dominican priest.\n\nHe studied theology in Rome and biblical studies in Jerusalem at the École Biblique. He lectures in scripture at the Priory Institute, at the Milltown Institute of Theology and Philosophy, and at the Church of Ireland Theological College, all of which are in Dublin. He also teaches in summer schools in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "32489256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32489256", "title": "William Leonard D'Mello", "text": "William Leonard D'Mello\n\nWilliam Leonard D'Mello (24 March 1931 – 19 July 2011) was the first Roman Catholic bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Karwar, India.\n\nBorn in Mangalore and ordained to the priesthood in 1957, D'Mello was named bishop of the Karwar Diocese in 1976 and retired in 2007.\n\nD'Mello was born on March 24, 1931, at Cascia, the third of six children born to Joseph and Santana D'Mello.\n\nOn January 24, 1976, at 44 years of age, D'Mello was appointed Bishop of the newly-erected Diocese of Karwar by Pope Paul VI. His episcopal consecration took place only on April 29, 1977. Archbishop Duraisamy Simon Lourdusamy served as Consecrator, assisted by Archbishop Packiam Arokiaswamy and Bishop Ignatius P. Lobo.\n\nOne of D'Mello's key initiatives was promoting vocations to the priesthood and the religious life in his diocese. He encouraged young men to enter the seminary, and sought to bring more congregations of religious sisters into his new diocese.\n\nD'Mello submitted his resignation upon reaching the age of 75 as required by the Code of Canon Law and in February 2007, Pope Benedict XVI accepted his resignation and appointed Derek Fernandes as his successor.\n\nIn retirement, he lived at the 'Sandhya Vandan'. D'Mello died July 19, 2011, aged 80 and was buried in the Diocese of Karwar's Cathedral of the Assumption.\n"}
{"id": "40443790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40443790", "title": "Wojciech Lemański", "text": "Wojciech Lemański\n\nWojciech Michał Lemański (born September 22, 1960) is a Roman Catholic Polish priest. He is in conflict with his superior Archbishop Henryk Hoser, who ordered him out of the parish for disobedience and failing to comply with some of the teachings of the Catholic Church.\n\nFirst Mgr. Hoser banned Lemański from teaching religious studies in public schools. On July 7, 2013, he asked Lemański to leave the parish and move to a residence for retired priests, despite the fact he was only 52. Another option was to be transferred to another parish, where he would serve as an auxiliary staff. Lemański did not agree with the decision and said that he would appeal against it. In June 2014 he was made chaplain in an institution for mentally injured children, but two months later he was suspended from the priesthood.\n\nLemański, ordained in 1987, has repeatedly criticised the church. He has accused the church leadership of not doing enough to oppose anti-Semitic tendencies among Poland's Catholics. Lemański himself is among a few Catholic priests who each year commemorate massacres of Jews at the Treblinka camp, where Jews, along with Poles and others, were gassed. He also recovered gravestones from abandoned and destroyed Jewish cemeteries, incorporating two of them into the main altar of his church. Some conservative Catholics said he was turning it into a synagogue.\n\nLemański has also criticized the establishment's lenient treatment of clerics accused of sexual abuse and its rejection of artificial insemination and contraceptives.\n\nIn July 2013, Lemański was suspended by the archbishop of Warsaw-Praga Henryk Hoser. On July 14, 2013, when three envoys dispatched by Hoser showed up at Lemanski's church in the town of Jasienica near Warsaw, they got surrounded by an angry crowd. The three clerics finally retreated after they were jeered at and booed. They barely managed to get into their car when the crowd began pushing the vehicle in the direction of Warsaw.\n\nLemański, who originally did not want to budge, later decided to resign, although he still considered the bishops' decision to be unfair. \"Today you are pushing a car, but tomorrow you will flip it over or possibly even hurt somebody,\" he told his parishioners. He then left the parsonage saying he will wait for a decision from the Vatican regarding his dispute with the church hierarchy.\n\nA few days later, front-page articles about the case appeared in the Polish edition of Newsweek and in Gazeta Wyborcza. At the end of June 2014 archbishop Hoser changed his earlier decision and posted Lemański as a chaplain in an institution for mentally injured children. Lemański continued his activities, also took part in Przystanek Woodstock music festival. On August 22, 2014, he was suspended from being a priest altogether, the reason being a lack of regret over his deeds in the past and breaking the ban on talking to the media, imposed by the Vatican.\n\nIn 2008, Lemański received Order of Polonia Restituta from the hands of former Polish president Lech Kaczyński for keeping the memory of Polish Jews alive.\n\n"}
