{"id": "1416824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1416824", "title": "1934 West Coast waterfront strike", "text": "1934 West Coast waterfront strike\n\nThe 1934 West Coast Waterfront Strike (also known as the 1934 West Coast Longshoremen's Strike, as well as a number of variations on these names) lasted eighty-three days, and began on May 9, 1934 when longshoremen in every West Coast port walked out. The strike peaked with \"Bloody Thursday\" and the San Francisco General Strike which stopped all work in the major port city for four days and led ultimately to the settlement of the West Coast Longshoremen's Strike.\n\nThe result of the strike was the unionization of all of the West Coast ports of the United States. The San Francisco General Strike of 1934, along with the Toledo Auto-Lite Strike of 1934 led by the American Workers Party and the Minneapolis Teamsters Strike of 1934 led by the Communist League of America, were important catalysts for the rise of industrial unionism in the 1930s, much of which was organized through the Congress of Industrial Organizations.\n\nLongshoremen on the West Coast ports had either been unorganized or represented by company unions since the years immediately after World War I, when the shipping companies and stevedoring firms had imposed the open shop after a series of failed strikes. Longshoremen in San Francisco, then the major port on the coast, were required to go through a hiring hall operated by a company union, known as the \"blue book\" system for the color of the membership book.\n\nThe Industrial Workers of the World had attempted to organize longshoremen, sailors and fishermen in the 1920s through their Marine Transport Workers Union. Their largest strike, the 1923 San Pedro Maritime Strike, bottled up shipping in that harbor, but was crushed by a combination of injunctions, mass arrests and vigilantism by the American Legion. While the IWW was a spent force after that strike, syndicalist thinking remained popular on the docks. Longshoremen and sailors on the West Coast also had contacts with an Australian syndicalist movement that called itself the \"One Big Union\" formed after the defeat of a general strike there in 1917.\n\nThe Communist Party had also been active in the area in the late 1920s, seeking to organize all categories of maritime workers into a single union, the Maritime Workers Industrial Union (MWIU), as part of the drive during the Third Period to create revolutionary unions. The MWIU never made much headway on the West Coast, but it did attract a number of former IWW members and foreign-born militants. Harry Bridges, an Australian-born sailor who became a longshoreman after coming to the United States, would be accused over and over for his acknowledged Communist party membership.\n\nMilitants published a newspaper, \"The Waterfront Worker\", which focused on longshoremen's most pressing demands: more men on each gang, lighter loads and an independent union. While a number of the individuals in this group were Communist Party members, the group as a whole was independent of the party: although it criticized the International Seamen's Union (ISU) as weak and the International Longshoremen's Association (ILA), which had its base on the East Coast, as corrupt, it did not embrace the MWIU, but called instead for creation of small knots of activists at each port to serve as the first step in a slow, careful movement to unionize the industry.\n\nEvents soon made the MWIU wholly irrelevant. Just as the passage of the National Industrial Recovery Act had led to a spontaneous explosion in union membership among coal miners in 1933, thousands of longshoremen now joined the fledgling ILA locals that reappeared on the West Coast. The MWIU faded away as party activists followed the mass of West Coast longshoremen into the ILA.\n\nThese newly emboldened workers first went after the \"blue book\" union, refusing to pay dues to it and tearing up their membership books. The militants who had published \"The Waterfront Worker\", now known as the \"Albion Hall group\" after their usual meeting place, continued organizing dock committees that soon began launching slowdowns and other types of job actions in order to win better working conditions. While the official leadership of the ILA remained in the hands of conservatives sent to the West Coast by President Joseph Ryan of the ILA, the Albion Hall group started in March, 1934 to press demands for a coastwide contract, a union-run hiring hall and an industry wide waterfront federation. When the conservative ILA leadership negotiated a weak \"gentlemen's agreement\" with the employers that had been brokered by the mediation board created by the administration of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Bridges led the membership in rejecting it.\n\nThe sticking point in the strike was recognition: the union demanded a closed shop, a coastwide contract and a union hiring hall. The employers offered to arbitrate the dispute, but insisted that the union agree to an open shop as a condition of any agreement to arbitrate. The longshoremen rejected the proposal to arbitrate.\n\nThe strike began on May 9, 1934, as longshoremen in every West Coast port walked out; sailors joined them several days later. The employers recruited strikebreakers, housing them on moored ships or in walled compounds and bringing them to and from work under police protection. Strikers attacked the stockade housing strikebreakers in San Pedro on May 15; police fired into the strikers and killed one and injured scores. The killing of Dick Parker created resentment up and down the coast. Daily similar smaller clashes broke out in San Francisco and Oakland, California, Portland, Oregon, and Seattle, Washington. Strikers also succeeded in slowing down or stopping the movement of goods by rail out of the ports.\n\nThe Roosevelt administration tried again to broker a deal to end the strike, but the membership twice rejected the agreements their leadership brought to them and continued the strike. The employers then decided to make a show of force to reopen the port in San Francisco. On Tuesday, July 3, fights broke out along the Embarcadero in San Francisco between police and strikers while a handful of trucks driven by young businessmen made it through the picket line.\n\nSome Teamsters supported the strikers by refusing to handle \"hot cargo\" – goods which had been unloaded by strikebreakers, although the Teamsters' leadership was not as supportive. By the end of May Dave Beck, president of the Seattle Teamsters, and Mike Casey, president of those in San Francisco, thought the maritime strike had lasted too long. They encouraged the strikers to take what they could get from the employers and threatened to use Teamsters as strikebreakers if the ILA did not return to work.\n\nAfter a quiet Fourth of July the employers' organization, the Industrial Association, tried to open the port even further on Thursday, July 5. As spectators watched from Rincon Hill, the police shot tear gas canisters into the crowd, then followed with a charge by mounted police. Picketers threw the canisters and rocks back at the police, who charged again, sending the picketers into retreat. Each side then refortified and took stock.\n\nThe events took a violent turn that afternoon, as hostilities resumed outside of the ILA strike kitchen. Eyewitness accounts differ on the exact events that transpired next. According to some witnesses, a group of strikers first surrounded a police car and attempted to tip it over, prompting the police to fire shotguns in the air, and then revolvers at the crowd. Other eyewitness accounts claim that police officers started shooting in the direction of the strikers, provoking strikers to defend themselves. Policemen fired a shotgun into the crowd, striking three men in intersection of Steuart and Mission streets. One of the men, Howard Sperry, a striking longshoreman, later died of his wounds. Another man, Charles Olsen, was also shot but later recovered from his wounds. A third man, Nick Bordoise – a Greek by birth (originally named Nick Counderakis) who was an out of work member of the cook's union volunteering at the ILA strike kitchen – was shot but managed to make his way around the corner onto Spear Street, where he was found several hours later. Like Sperry, he died at the hospital.\n\nStrikers immediately cordoned off the area where the two picketers had been shot, laying flowers and wreaths around it. Police arrived to remove the flowers and drive off the picketers minutes later. Once the police left, the strikers returned, replaced the flowers and stood guard over the spot. Though Sperry and Bordoise had been shot several blocks apart, this spot became synonymous with the memory of the two slain men and \"Bloody Thursday.\"\n\nAs strikers carried wounded picketers into the ILA union hall police fired on the hall and lobbed tear gas canisters at nearby hotels. At this point someone reportedly called the union hall to ask \"Are you willing to arbitrate now?\"\n\nUnder orders from California Governor Frank Merriam, the California National Guard moved in that evening to patrol the waterfront. Similarly, federal soldiers of the United States Army stationed at the Presidio were placed on alert. The picketers pulled back, unwilling to take on armed soldiers in an uneven fight, and trucks and trains began moving without interference. Bridges asked the San Francisco Labor Council to meet that Saturday, July 7, to authorize a general strike. The Alameda County Central Labor Council in Oakland considered the same action. Teamsters in both San Francisco and Oakland voted to strike, over the objections of their leaders, on Sunday, July 8.\n\nThe following day, several thousand strikers, families and sympathizers took part in a funeral procession down Market Street, stretching more than a mile and a half, for Nicholas Bordois and Howard Sperry, the two persons killed on \"Bloody Thursday\". The police were wholly absent from the scene. The march made an enormous impact on San Franciscans, making a general strike, which had formerly been \"the visionary dream of a small group of the most radical workers, became . . . a practical and realizable objective.\" After dozens of Bay Area unions voted for a general strike over the next few days, the San Francisco Labor Council voted on July 14 to call a general strike. The Teamsters had already been out for two days by that point.\n\nSan Francisco Mayor Angelo Rossi declared a state of emergency. Some federal officials, particularly Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins, were more skeptical. Roosevelt later recalled that some persons were urging him to steer the USS Houston, which was carrying him to Hawaii, \"into San Francisco Bay, all flags flying and guns double-shotted, and end the strike.\" Roosevelt rejected the suggestion.\n\nThe general strike began on the 16th, involving some 150,000 workers. On the 17th the police arrested more than 300 \"radicals, subversives, and communists\" while systematically smashing furniture and equipment of organizations related to the strike; the same day, General Hugh S. Johnson as head of the National Recovery Administration spoke at UC Berkeley to denounce the general strike as \"a menace to the government.\"\n\nThe strike lasted four days. Non-union truck drivers joined the first day; the movie theaters and night clubs closed down. While food deliveries continued with the permission of the strike committee, many small businesses closed, posting signs in support of the strikers. Reports that unions in Portland and Seattle would also begin general strikes picked up currency.\n\nThe calling of a general strike had an unexpected result: it gave the General Strike Committee, whose makeup was far less militant than the longshoremen's strike committee, effective control over the maritime strike itself. When the Labor Council voted to terminate the general strike it also recommended that the unions accept arbitration of all disputed issues. When the National Longshore Board put the employer's proposal to arbitrate to a vote of striking longshoremen, it passed in every port except Everett, Washington.\n\nThat, however, left the striking seamen in the lurch: the employers had refused to arbitrate with the ISU unless it first won elections on the fleets on strike. While Bridges, who had preached solidarity among all maritime workers and scorned arbitration, apologized to the seamen for the longshoremen's vote, the President of the ISU urged them to hold out and to burn their \"fink books\", the membership records of the company union to which they had been forced to pay dues.\n\nOn July 17, 1934, the California National Guard blocked both ends of Jackson Street from Drumm to Front with machine gun mounted trucks to assist vigilante raids, protected by SFPD, on the headquarters of the Marine Workers' Industrial Union and the ILA soup kitchen at 84 Embarcadero. Moving on, the Workers' Ex-Servicemen's League's headquarters on Howard between Third and Fourth was raided, leading to 150 arrests and the complete destruction of the facilities. The employer's group, the Industrial Association, had agents riding with the police. Further raids were carried out at the Workers' Open Forum at 1223 Fillmore street and the Western Worker building opposite City Hall that contained a bookstore and the main offices of the Communist Party, which was thoroughly destroyed. Attacks were also perpetrated on the 121 Haight Street Workers' School and the Mission Workers' Neighborhood House at 741 Valencia Street. A police spokesperson suggested that \"maybe the Communists staged the raids themselves for publicity\".\n\nGeneral Hugh S. Johnson, then head of the National Recovery Administration, gave a speech urging responsible labor leaders to \"run these subversive influences out from its ranks like rats\". A lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union was kidnapped and beaten, while vigilantes seized thirteen radicals in San Jose and turned them over to the sheriff of an adjoining county, who transported them to another county. In Hayward in Alameda County someone erected a scaffold in front of the city hall with a noose and a sign stating \"Reds beware\". In Piedmont, an upscale community surrounded by Oakland on all sides, the chief of police prepared for a reported attack by strikers on the homes of wealthy ship-owners.\n\nWhile some of the most powerful people in San Francisco considered the strike's denouement to be a victory for the employers, many longshoremen and seamen did not. Spontaneous strikes over grievances and workplace conditions broke out as strikers returned to their jobs, with longshoremen and teamsters supporting their demands. Employers conceded many of these battles, giving workers even more confidence in demanding that employers lighten unbearably heavy loads. Longshoremen also began dictating other terms, fining members who worked more than the ceiling of 120 hours per month, filing charges against a gang boss for \"slandering colored brothers\" and forcing employers to fire strikebreakers. Other unions went further: the Marine Firemen proposed to punish any member who bought a Hearst newspaper.\n\nThe arbitration award issued on October 12, 1934, cemented the ILA's power. While the award put the operation of the hall in the hands of a committee of union and employer representatives, the union was given the power to select the dispatcher. Since longshoremen were prepared to walk out if an employer did not hire a worker dispatched from the hall, the ILA soon controlled hiring on the docks. The employers complained that the union wanted to \"sovietize\" the waterfront. Workers complained that the employers were exploiting them for cheap labor and forcing them to work in unsafe conditions without reasonable safety measures.\n\nThe union soon utilized the \"quickie strike\" tactic to force many concessions from employers such as safer working conditions and better pay. Similarly, even though an arbitrator held that the 1935 Agreement prohibited sympathy strikes, the union's members nonetheless refused to cross other unions' picket lines. Longshoremen also refused to handle \"hot cargo\" destined for non-union warehouses that the union was attempting to organize. The ISU acquired similar authority over hiring, despite the philosophical objection of the union's own officers to hiring halls. The ISU used this power to drive strikebreakers out of the industry.\n\nThe rift between the seamen's and longshoremen's unions deepened and became more complex in the succeeding years, as Bridges continually fought with the Sailors' Union of the Pacific over labor and political issues. The West Coast district of the ILA broke off from the International in 1937 to form the International Longshoremen's Union, later renamed the International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union after the union's \"march inland\" to organize warehouse workers, then renamed the International Longshore and Warehouse Union in recognition of the number of women members.\n\nThe arbitration award also gave longshoremen a raise to ninety-five cents an hour for straight time work, just shy of the dollar an hour it demanded during the strike. It was also awarded a contract that applied up and down the West Coast. The strike also prompted union organizer Carmen Lucia to organize the Department Store Workers Union and the Retail Clerks Association in San Francisco.\n\nThe ILWU continues to recognize \"Bloody Thursday\" by shutting down all West Coast ports every July 5 and honoring Nick Bordoise, Howard Sperry and all of the other workers killed by police during the strike. The ILWU has frequently stopped work for political protests against, among other things, Italy's invasion of Ethiopia, fascist intervention in Spain's civil war, South Africa's system of apartheid and the Iraq War.\n\nSam Kagel, the last surviving member of the original union steering committee, died on May 21, 2007 at the age of 98.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "482445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=482445", "title": "Acute respiratory distress syndrome", "text": "Acute respiratory distress syndrome\n\nAcute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is type of respiratory failure characterized by rapid onset of widespread inflammation in the lungs. Symptoms include shortness of breath, rapid breathing, and bluish skin coloration. Among those who survive, a decreased quality of life is relatively common.\nCauses may include sepsis, pancreatitis, trauma, pneumonia, and aspiration. The underlying mechanism involves diffuse injury to cells which form the barrier of the microscopic air sacs of the lungs, surfactant dysfunction, activation of the immune system, and dysfunction of the body's regulation of blood clotting. In effect, ARDS impairs the lungs' ability to exchange oxygen and carbon dioxide. Diagnosis is based on a PaO/FiO ratio of less than 300 mmHg despite a PEEP of more than 5 cm H0.\nThe primary treatment involves mechanical ventilation together with treatments directed at the underlying cause. Ventilation strategies include using low volumes and low pressures. If oxygenation remains insufficient lung recruitment maneuvers and paralysis may be tried. If this is insufficient ECMO may be an option. The syndrome is associated with a death rate between 35 and 50%.\nARDS affects about 3 million people a year. The condition was first described in 1967. Although the terminology of \"adult respiratory distress syndrome\" has at times been used to differentiate ARDS from \"infant respiratory distress syndrome\" in newborns, the international consensus is that \"acute respiratory distress syndrome\" is the best term because ARDS can affect people of all ages.\nARDS is the severe form of acute lung injury (ALI) and of transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI). The Berlin definition included ALI as a mild form of ARDS. However, the criteria for the diagnosis of ARDS in the Berlin definition excludes many children and a new definition for children was called pediatric acute respiratory distress syndrome (PARDS). This is known as the PALLIC definition.\n\nThe signs and symptoms of ARDS often begin within two hours of an inciting event, but can occur after 1–3 days. Signs and symptoms may include shortness of breath, fast breathing, and a low oxygen level in the blood due to abnormal ventilation.\n\nDiffuse compromise of the pulmonary system resulting in ARDS generally occurs in the setting of critical illness. ARDS may be seen in the setting of severe pulmonary (pneumonia) or systemic infection (sepsis), following trauma, multiple blood transfusions (TRALI), severe burns, severe inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis), near-drowning or other aspiration events, drug reactions, or inhalation injuries. Some cases of ARDS are linked to large volumes of fluid used during post-trauma resuscitation.\n\nDiagnostic criteria for ARDS have changed over time as understanding of the pathophysiology has evolved. The international consensus criteria for ARDS were most recently updated in 2012 and are known as the \"Berlin definition\". In addition to generally broadening the diagnostic thresholds, other notable changes from the prior 1994 consensus criteria include discouraging the term \"acute lung injury,\" and defining grades of ARDS severity according to degree of decrease in the oxygen content of the blood.\n\nAccording to the 2012 Berlin definition, ARDS is characterized by the following: \n\nNote that the 2012 \"Berlin criteria\" are a modification of the prior 1994 consensus conference definitions (see \"history\").\n\nRadiologic imaging has long been a criterion for diagnosis of ARDS. Original definitions of ARDS specified that correlative chest X-ray findings were required for diagnosis, the diagnostic criteria have been expanded over time to accept CT and ultrasound findings as equally contributory. Generally, radiographic findings of fluid accumulation (pulmonary edema) affecting both lungs and unrelated to increased cardiopulmonary vascular pressure (such as in heart failure) may be suggestive of ARDS. \nUltrasound findings suggestive of ARDS include the following:\n\nARDS is a form of fluid accumulation in the lungs not explained by heart failure (noncardiogenic pulmonary edema). It is typically provoked by an acute injury to the lungs that results in flooding of the lungs' microscopic air sacs responsible for the exchange of gases such as oxygen and carbon dioxide with capillaries in the lungs. Additional common findings in ARDS include partial collapse of the lungs (atelectasis) and low levels of oxygen in the blood (hypoxemia). The clinical syndrome is associated with pathological findings including pneumonia, eosinophilic pneumonia, cryptogenic organizing pneumonia, acute fibrinous organizing pneumonia, and diffuse alveolar damage (DAD). Of these, the pathology most commonly associated with ARDS is DAD, which is characterized by a diffuse inflammation of lung tissue. The triggering insult to the tissue usually results in an initial release of chemical signals and other inflammatory mediators secreted by local epithelial and endothelial cells.\n\nNeutrophils and some T-lymphocytes quickly migrate into the inflamed lung tissue and contribute in the amplification of the phenomenon. Typical histological presentation involves diffuse alveolar damage and hyaline membrane formation in alveolar walls. Although the triggering mechanisms are not completely understood, recent research has examined the role of inflammation and mechanical stress.\n\nAcute respiratory distress syndrome is usually treated with mechanical ventilation in the intensive care unit (ICU). Mechanical ventilation is usually delivered through a rigid tube which enters the oral cavity and is secured in the airway (endotracheal intubation), or by tracheostomy when prolonged ventilation (≥2 weeks) is necessary. The role of non-invasive ventilation is limited to the very early period of the disease or to prevent worsening respiratory distress in individuals with atypical pneumonias, lung bruising, or major surgery patients, who are at risk of developing ARDS. Treatment of the underlying cause is crucial. Appropriate antibiotic therapy is started as soon as culture results are available, or if infection is suspected (whichever is earlier). Empirical therapy may be appropriate if local microbiological surveillance is efficient. Where possible the origin of the infection is removed. When sepsis is diagnosed, appropriate local protocols are followed.\n\nThe overall goal of mechanical ventilation is to maintain acceptable gas exchange to meet the body's metabolic demands and to minimize adverse effects in its application. The parameters PEEP (positive end-expiratory pressure, to keep alveoli open), mean airway pressure (to promote recruitment (opening) of easily collapsible alveoli and predictor of hemodynamic effects) and plateau pressure (best predictor of alveolar overdistention) are used.\n\nPreviously, mechanical ventilation aimed to achieve tidal volumes (\"V\") of 12–15 ml/kg (where the weight is ideal body weight rather than actual weight). Recent studies have shown that high tidal volumes can overstretch alveoli resulting in volutrauma (secondary lung injury). The ARDS Clinical Network, or ARDSNet, completed a clinical trial that showed improved mortality when people with ARDS were ventilated with a tidal volume of 6 ml/kg compared to the traditional 12 ml/kg. Low tidal volumes (\"V\") may cause a permitted rise in blood carbon dioxide levels and collapse of alveoli because of their inherent tendency to increase shunting within the lung. Physiologic dead space cannot change as it is ventilation without perfusion. A shunt is perfusion without ventilation.\n\nLow tidal volume ventilation was the primary independent variable associated with reduced mortality in the NIH-sponsored ARDSnet trial of tidal volume in ARDS. Plateau pressure less than 30 cm was a secondary goal, and subsequent analyses of the data from the ARDSnet trial and other experimental data demonstrate that there appears to be no safe upper limit to plateau pressure; regardless of plateau pressure, individuals with ARDS fare better with low tidal volumes.\n\nNo particular ventilator mode is known to improve mortality in acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).\n\nSome practitioners favor airway pressure release ventilation when treating ARDS. Well documented advantages to APRV ventilation include decreased airway pressures, decreased minute ventilation, decreased dead-space ventilation, promotion of spontaneous breathing, almost 24-hour-a-day alveolar recruitment, decreased use of sedation, near elimination of neuromuscular blockade, optimized arterial blood gas results, mechanical restoration of FRC (functional residual capacity), a positive effect on cardiac output (due to the negative inflection from the elevated baseline with each spontaneous breath), increased organ and tissue perfusion and potential for increased urine output secondary to increased kidney perfusion.\n\nA patient with ARDS, on average, spends between 8 and 11 days on a mechanical ventilator; APRV may reduce this time significantly and conserve valuable resources.\n\nPositive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) is used in mechanically ventilated people with ARDS to improve oxygenation. In ARDS, three populations of alveoli can be distinguished. There are normal alveoli which are always inflated and engaging in gas exchange, flooded alveoli which can never, under any ventilatory regime, be used for gas exchange, and atelectatic or partially flooded alveoli that can be \"recruited\" to participate in gas exchange under certain ventilatory regimens. The recruitable alveoli represent a continuous population, some of which can be recruited with minimal PEEP, and others which can only be recruited with high levels of PEEP. An additional complication is that some alveoli can only be opened with higher airway pressures than are needed to keep them open, hence the justification for maneuvers where PEEP is increased to very high levels for seconds to minutes before dropping the PEEP to a lower level. PEEP can be harmful; high PEEP necessarily increases mean airway pressure and alveolar pressure, which can damage normal alveoli by overdistension resulting in DAD. A compromise between the beneficial and adverse effects of PEEP is inevitable.\n\nThe 'best PEEP' used to be defined as 'some' cm above the lower inflection point (LIP) in the sigmoidal pressure-volume relationship curve of the lung. Recent research has shown that the LIP-point pressure is no better than any pressure above it, as recruitment of collapsed alveoliand, more importantly, the overdistension of aerated unitsoccur throughout the whole inflation. Despite the awkwardness of most procedures used to trace the pressure-volume curve, it is still used by some to define the \"minimum\" PEEP to be applied to their patients. Some new ventilators can automatically plot a pressure-volume curve.\n\nPEEP may also be set empirically. Some authors suggest performing a 'recruiting maneuver'a short time at a very high continuous positive airway pressure, such as 50 cm (4.9 kPa)to recruit or open collapsed units with a high distending pressure before restoring previous ventilation. The final PEEP level should be the one just before the drop in Pa or peripheral blood oxygen saturation during a step-down trial.\n\nIntrinsic PEEP (iPEEP) or auto-PEEPfirst described by John Marini of St. Paul Regions Hospitalis a potentially unrecognized contributor to PEEP in intubated individuals. When ventilating at high frequencies, its contribution can be substantial, particularly in people with obstructive lung disease such as asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). iPEEP has been measured in very few formal studies on ventilation in ARDS, and its contribution is largely unknown. Its measurement is recommended in the treatment of people who have ARDS, especially when using high-frequency (oscillatory/jet) ventilation.\n\nThe position of lung infiltrates in acute respiratory distress syndrome is non-uniform. Repositioning into the prone position (face down) might improve oxygenation by relieving atelectasis and improving perfusion. If this is done early in the treatment of severe ARDS, it confers a mortality benefit of 26% compared to supine ventilation.\n\nSeveral studies have shown that pulmonary function and outcome are better in people with ARDS who lost weight or whose pulmonary wedge pressure was lowered by diuresis or fluid restriction.\n\nAn NIH-sponsored multicenter ARDSnet study of corticosteroids that ran from August 1997 to November 2003 titled LaSRS for ARDS demonstrated that despite an improvement in cardiovascular physiology, methylprednisone is not efficacious in treatment for ARDS.\n\nInhaled nitric oxide (NO) selectively widens the lung's arteries which allows for more blood flow to open alveoli for gas exchange. Despite evidence of increased oxygenation status, there is no evidence that inhaled nitric oxide decreases morbidity and mortality in people with ARDS. Furthermore, nitric oxide may cause kidney damage and is not recommended as therapy for ARDS regardless of severity.\n\nTo date, no prospective controlled clinical trial has shown a mortality benefit of exogenous surfactant in adult ARDS.\n\nExtracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) is mechanically applied prolonged cardiopulmonary support. There are two types of ECMO: Venovenous which provides respiratory support and venoarterial which provides respiratory and hemodynamic support. People with ARDS who do not require cardiac support typically undergo venovenous ECMO. Multiple studies have shown the effectiveness of ECMO in acute respiratory failure. Specifically, the CESAR (Conventional ventilatory support versus Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for Severe Acute Respiratory failure) trial demonstrated that a group referred to an ECMO center demonstrated significantly increased survival compared to conventional management (63% to 47%).\n\nSince ARDS is an extremely serious condition which requires invasive forms of therapy it is not without risk. Complications to be considered include the following:\n\nThe annual incidence of ARDS is 13–23 people per 100,000 in the general population. Its incidence in the mechanically ventilated population in intensive care units is much higher. According to Brun-Buisson \"et al\" (2004), there is a prevalence of acute lung injury (ALI) of 16.1% percent in ventilated patients admitted for more than 4 hours.\n\nWorldwide, severe sepsis is the most common trigger causing ARDS. Other triggers include mechanical ventilation, sepsis, pneumonia, Gilchrist's disease, drowning, circulatory shock, aspiration, traumaespecially pulmonary contusionmajor surgery, massive blood transfusions, smoke inhalation, drug reaction or overdose, fat emboli and reperfusion pulmonary edema after lung transplantation or pulmonary embolectomy. However, the majority of these patients with all these conditions mentioned do not develop ARDS.It is not clear why some people with the mentioned factors above don't get ARDS and some do.\n\nPneumonia and sepsis are the most common triggers, and pneumonia is present in up to 60% of patients and may be either causes or complications of ARDS. Alcohol excess appears to increase the risk of ARDS. Diabetes was originally thought to decrease the risk of ARDS, but this has shown to be due to an increase in the risk of pulmonary edema. Elevated abdominal pressure of any cause is also probably a risk factor for the development of ARDS, particularly during mechanical ventilation.\n\nThe death rate varies from 25–40% in centers using up-to-date ventilatory strategies and up to 58% in all centers.\n\nAcute respiratory distress syndrome was first described in 1967 by Ashbaugh \"et al.\" Initially there was no clearly established definition, which resulted in controversy regarding the incidence and death of ARDS.\n\nIn 1988, an expanded definition was proposed, which quantified physiologic respiratory impairment.\n\nIn 1994, a new definition was recommended by the American-European Consensus Conference Committee which recognized the variability in severity of pulmonary injury.\n\nThe definition required the following criteria be met:\n\nIf Pa:Fi < 300 mmHg (40 kPa), then the definitions recommended a classification as \"acute lung injury\" (ALI). Note that according to these criteria, arterial blood gas analysis and chest X-ray were required for formal diagnosis. Limitations of these definitions include lack of precise definition of acuity, nonspecific imaging criteria, lack of precise definition of hypoxemia with regards to PEEP (affects arterial oxygen partial pressure), arbitrary Pa thresholds without systematic data.\n\nIn 2012, the Berlin Definition of ARDS was devised by the European Society of Intensive Care Medicine, and was endorsed by the American Thoracic Society and the Society of Critical Care Medicine. These recommendations were an effort to both update classification criteria in order to improve clinical usefulness, and to clarify terminology. Notably, the Berlin guidelines discourage the use of the term \"acute lung injury\" or ALI, as the term was commonly being misused to characterize a less severe degree of lung injury. Instead, the committee proposes a classification of ARDS severity as mild, moderate or severe according to arterial oxygen saturation. The Berlin definitions represent the current international consensus guidelines for both clinical and research classification of ARDS.\n\nThere is ongoing research on the treatment of ARDS by interferon (IFN) beta-1a to aid in preventing leakage of vascular beds. Traumakine (FP-1201-lyo), is a recombinant human IFN beta-1a drug developed by Faron pharmaceuticals, is undergoing international phase-III clinical trials after an open-label, early-phase trial showed an 81% reduction-in-odds of 28-day mortality in ICU patients with ARDS. The drug is known to function by enhancing lung CD73 expression and increasing production of anti-inflammatory adenosine, such that vascular leaking and escalation of inflammation are reduced.\n\nAspirin has been studied in those who are at high risk and was not found to be useful.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5650433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5650433", "title": "Adolf VI, Count of Berg", "text": "Adolf VI, Count of Berg\n\nCount Adolf VI of Berg (born before 1176 – died 7 August 1218 at Damiette during the Hungarian crusade against Egypt) ruled the County of Berg from 1197 until 1218.\n\nHe was the son of Engelbert I of Berg and Margaret of Geldern, and the oldest brother of Engelbert II of Berg (1185–1225), also known as Engelbert of Cologne or Saint Engelbert. Adolf married Berta von Sayn (died 1244), a daughter of Henry II von Sayn and Agnes zu Saffenberg. They had one daughter:\n\n\nIn 1212 Adolf took part to the Albigensian Crusade against the Cathars. And in 1215 he took over the Kaiserpfalz Kaiserswerth.\n\nAdolf left on 1218 with the Fifth Crusade to Egypt and died on 7 August 1218 of a plague as commander of the Lower-Rhenish and Frisian troops in Damiette, in the delta of the Nile.\n\nHis brother, the Archbishop Engelbert II of Berg followed him as ruler of Berg, which later went to the husband of Adolf's daughter, Irmgard of Berg.\n\n\nAdolf VI, Count of Berg is named Adolf III, Count of Berg in the Netherlands and in Germany\n\nAlberic of Troisfontaines (MGH, Scriptores XXIII). - Annales Rodenses (MGH, Scriptores, XVI). - Annalista Saxo (MGH, Scriptores VI). – Gesta Trevirorum (MGH, Scriptores VIII). – MGH, Diplomata. – REK I-II. – Rheinisches UB. – Hömberg, “Geschichte.” – Jackman, “Counts of Cologne.” – Jackman, Criticism. – Klebel, E. “Niederösterreich und der Stammbaum der Grafen von Görz und Schwarzburg.” Unsere Heimat. Monatsblatt des Vereins für Landeskunde von Niederösterreich 23 (1952) 111-23. – Kluger, “Propter claritatem generis.” – Kraus, Entstehung. – Lück, D. “Der Avelgau, die erste fassbare Gebietseinteilung an der unteren Sieg.” In: Heimatbuch der Stadt Siegburg I. Ed. H. J. Roggendorf. Siegburg, 1964. pp. 223–85. – Lück, D. “In pago Tuizichgowe – Anmerkungen zum Deutzgau.” Rechtsrheinisches Köln 3 (1977) 1-9. – Milz, “Vögte.” – Schmale, “Anfänge.” – Tyroller, “Genealogie.” – Wunder, G. “Die Nichten des Erzbischofs Friedrich von Köln.” AHVN 164 (1962) 192-6. – Wunder, G. “Die Verwandtschaft des Erzbischofs Friedrich I. von Köln. Ein Beitrag zur abendländischen Verflechtung des Hochadels im Mittelalter.” AHVN 166 (1964) 25-54.\n"}
{"id": "4954903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4954903", "title": "Alexander of Jerusalem", "text": "Alexander of Jerusalem\n\nSaint Alexander of Jerusalem (died 251 AD) was a third century bishop who is venerated as a Martyr and Saint by both the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Roman Catholic Church. He died during the persecution of Emperor Decius.\n\nAlexander was the first Bishop of Cappadocia and was afterwards associated as coadjutor with the Bishop of Jerusalem, Saint Narcissus, who was, at that time, very old. Alexander had been imprisoned for his faith in the time of Roman Emperor Alexander Severus. After his release, he came to Jerusalem, where the aged Bishop Narcissus prevailed on Alexander to remain and assist him in the government of that see. \n\nIt was Alexander who permitted Origen, although only a layman, to speak in the churches. For this concession he was taken to task, but he defended himself by examples of other permissions of the same kind given even to Origen himself elsewhere, although then quite young. Alban Butler says that they had studied together in the great Christian school of Alexandria. Alexander ordained him a priest.\n\nAlexander is praised for the library he built at Jerusalem. Though at his time Jerusalem was officially known as Aelia Capitolina, the name used by the Roman authorities since the city was rebuilt by the Emperor Hadrian, Christian tradition persisted in using the original name.\n\nFinally, in spite of his years, he, with several other bishops, was carried off a prisoner to Caesarea, and as the historians say, \"The glory of his white hairs and great sanctity formed a double crown for him in captivity\". His \"vita\" states that he suffered many tortures, but survived them all. When the wild beasts were brought to devour him, some licked his feet, and others their impress on the sand of the arena. Worn out by his sufferings, he died in prison. This was in the year 251.\n\nHis feast is kept by the Roman Catholic Church on March 18, by the Eastern Orthodox Churches on May 16/29 and December 12/25.\n\nEusebius has preserved fragments of a letter written by him to the Antinoïtes; of another to the Antiochenes; of a third to Origen; and of another, written in conjunction with Theoctistus of Caesarea, to Demetrius of Alexandria.\n\n"}
{"id": "4899214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4899214", "title": "Arthur Brown (U.S. senator)", "text": "Arthur Brown (U.S. senator)\n\nArthur Brown (March 8, 1843December 12, 1906) was a United States Senator from Utah.\n\nBorn in Kalamazoo, Michigan, he attended the common schools and graduated from Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio, in 1862. He pursued graduate work at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor and graduated from the law department of the University of Michigan in 1864. He was admitted to the bar and commenced practice in Kalamazoo.\n\nIn 1879, he moved to Salt Lake City, Utah Territory, and upon the admission of Utah as a State into the Union was elected as a Republican to the U.S. Senate and served from January 22, 1896, until March 4, 1897. He was not a candidate for renomination and resumed the practice of law in Salt Lake City.\n\nBrown was also the second cousin of future President Calvin Coolidge and a member of the Phillips Congregational Church, in Salt Lake City.\n\nOn December 8, 1906, Brown was shot in Washington, D.C., by his longtime mistress, Anne Maddison Bradley, who claimed to be the mother of his children. The lovers were jailed more than once for adultery. \n\nBradley found love letters to Brown from Asenath Ann \"Annie\" Adams Kiskadden (an actress who was the mother of actress Maude Adams). Bradley assumed Brown was having a second affair with Kiskadden, confronted him at The Raleigh Hotel on 12th Street near Pennsylvania Avenue and shot him. Brown died from his wounds four days later, at age 63, and was interred in Mount Olivet Cemetery, Salt Lake City. \n\nAt trial, it was revealed that Brown's will renounced Bradley and the two sons she claimed he sired, and a sympathetic jury acquitted her. Brown's murder was featured in an episode of Deadly Women, entitled \"Ruthless Revenge\".\n\n"}
{"id": "51153357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51153357", "title": "BioViva", "text": "BioViva\n\nBioViva is a Bainbridge Island, Washington-based biotechnology company developing treatments to slow the ageing process in humans.\n\nBioViva was founded in 2015. In early 2016, Sierra Sciences announced that they were working with BioViva to start a new medical tourism-based venture, BioViva FIJI, on Fiji and that they will be the first company to use gene therapy to treat biological aging in humans. CEO Liz Parrish explained the reason for setting up in Fiji: \"The current regulatory authorities have an outdated model that does not accommodate these new technologies.\" In June 2016, government sources in Fiji denied knowledge of the venture.\n\nBioViva released data gathered post-therapy in 2016, claiming that independent testing by SpectraCell Laboratories had revealed Parrish's leukocyte telomere length had been extended from 6.71kb to 7.33kb, an amount they state is equivalent to a reversal of 20 years of telomere attrition. The company also released data suggesting an improvement in insulin sensitivity, an increase in muscle mass, a more favourable blood lipid profile and a reduction in C-reactive protein, a potent marker of inflammation.\n\nBioViva's CEO Liz Parrish appeared on Norwegian television in the program Trygdekontoret to discuss the use of gene and cell therapies to improve health in an aging population. Parrish has also appeared on Australian network ABC's Lateline, discussing BioViva's development of therapies to treat biological ageing.\n\nParrish appeared at WIRED Health 2017 in London to discuss BioViva's testing of gene therapies targeting hallmarks of the ageing process. Appearing in WIRED, Parrish stated, \"The company was built essentially to prove these therapies work or not. Remember BioViva is not a research organisation. We are taking things like gene therapies and using them like technology.\"\n\nParrish's treatment, often labelled as self-experimentation, is highly controversial. As the requirements to progress to human trials had not started, the US Food and Drug Administration did not authorize Parrish's experiments. Parrish travelled to Colombia for the treatments.\n\nSome have criticised BioViva's release of data claiming an extension of Parrish's leukocyte telomeres following her therapy, suggesting that the aforementioned extension is within the error change for telomere measurements. Dr. Bradley Johnson, Associate Professor of Pathology and Lab Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania said, \"Telomere length measurements typically have low precision, with variation in measurements of around 10 percent, which is in the range of the reported telomere lengthening apparently experienced by Elizabeth Parrish.\"\n\nAltering the genetic makeup of humans, or gene therapy, by lengthening telomeres has been described as dangerous, as the ageing process is poorly understood. The telomeres' function is to restrict the number of times a cell can divide (thereby multiplying) to suppress cancer. Duncan Baird, a professor of Cancer and Genetics at Cardiff University's School of Medicine states, \"Meddling with a fundamentally important tumor-suppressive mechanism that has evolved in long-lived species like ours doesn't strike me as a particularly good idea.\"\n\nTimothy Caulfield, professor in the Faculty of Law and the School of Public Health at the University of Alberta, characterized BioViva's work as 'pseudoscience' and lacking scientific rigor. George M Martin, professor of pathology at the University of Washington had agreed to be an adviser to the company but resigned upon hearing about Parrish's self-experiments.\n\nAntonio Regalado, reporter for the MIT Technology Review states, \"The experiment seems likely to be remembered as either a new low in medical quackery or, perhaps, the unlikely start of an era in which naive people receive genetic modifications not just to treat disease, but to reverse aging.\"\n\nParrish's decision to be 'patient zero' and test the company's technology on herself in a personalised N=1 study has been both criticised and lauded. Dr. Lawrence Altman, author of \"Who Goes First? The Story of Self-Experimentation in Medicine\" has said, \"N's of 1 have had their value through history, and will. But you're not going to license a drug based on an N-of-1.\"\n\nBioViva's technology is based on preclinical research of inhibition of both the enzyme telomerase and myostatin.\n\nTelomerase gene therapy utilizing an adeno-associated virus undertaken by María Blasco's group at the Spanish National Cancer Research Centre (CNIO), has demonstrated several beneficial effects and an increase in median lifespan of up to 24% in mice. Discussing her team's research, Blasco has stated in discussion with The Scientist, \"We demonstrated that AAV9-Tert gene therapy was sufficient to delay age-related pathologies and extend both median and maximum longevity in mice. Many pathologies were delayed, including cancer. Translating these results to human diseases (telomere syndromes or certain age-related diseases without effective treatments) may be of interest in the context of clinical trials approved by the corresponding regulatory agencies.\"\n\nMyostatin inhibition gene therapy, utilizing the gene follistatin (a known inhibitor of myostatin), has been tested in a phase 1/2 trial on 6 people, for Becker's muscular dystrophy. 4 of the 6 patients showed improvements in walking ability following application of the gene therapy, with some muscle growth especially in response to the higher dosage.\n"}
{"id": "16920225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16920225", "title": "Birthing ball", "text": "Birthing ball\n\nA birthing ball or labor ball is a large air–filled rubber ball (a gym ball about in diameter) that a woman can sit on during labor. A birthing ball allows the woman to rock back and forth seated on a softer surface. A woman on a birthing ball may need a support person to keep her steady. A birthing ball may be especially useful during back labor. Hospital policies on birthing balls vary, in part because the balls provide a somewhat unsteady seat, some hospitals are concerned about their safety if a woman falls during birth. It is often used during natural childbirth.\n"}
{"id": "30256951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30256951", "title": "Business as usual (business)", "text": "Business as usual (business)\n\nBusiness as usual (BAU) - the normal execution of standard functional operations within an organization - forms a possible contrast to projects or programmes which might introduce change.\nBAU may also stand in contradistinction to external events which may have the effect of unsettling or distracting those inside an organisation.\n\nThe maintenance of BAU is the primary goal of business continuity planning (BCP).\n\n"}
{"id": "18038997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18038997", "title": "CIFMS", "text": "CIFMS\n\nContinuous Improvement and Focused Monitoring System is a process management and quality management concept, which offers companies \"quick wins\" benefits, which enable them to produce high quality products with shorter lead-time.\n\nA CIFMS is not a general software application that can be readily used for any given manufacturing company, it is a uniquely designed system specifically tailored to a given company guided by a method. Therefore the most crucial process in developing and implementing an efficient CIFMS is selecting a design method which brings forth a multi-criteria decision analysis (MCDM) problem with varied degrees of interdependencies among the decision components.\n\nA key principle of an effective Continuous Improvement and Focused Monitoring System is input and feedback from a diverse group of stakeholders.\n"}
{"id": "30254250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30254250", "title": "Capital punishment in Jamaica", "text": "Capital punishment in Jamaica\n\nCapital punishment is a legal penalty in Jamaica. Currently, the only crime punishable by death is aggravated murder. The method of execution is hanging. The last person executed in Jamaica was Nathan Foster, who was convicted of murder and hanged in 1988. The Jamaican Parliament had placed a moratorium on the death penalty until 2009, when it was lifted. Since 2009, capital punishment is legal and executions in Jamaica could resume; however, there have been no executions since.\n\nIt was estimated in 2012 that there were seven or eight inmates in Jamaica currently under a sentence of death.\n\n"}
{"id": "16355479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16355479", "title": "Chantal Sébire", "text": "Chantal Sébire\n\nChantal Sébire (28 January 1955 – 19 March 2008) was a retired French teacher who suffered from esthesioneuroblastoma, a rare form of cancer, and fought for the right to die through euthanasia.\n\nSébire lived in Plombières-lès-Dijon, near Dijon, France, and was the mother of three children. In 2000, she was diagnosed with esthesioneuroblastoma, a rare form of cancer of which only 200 cases have been reported in the past 20 years. \nSébire refused any treatment at the time of her diagnosis, not wishing to take the risk of the surgery or medications.\n\nWith time, the cancer burrowed through her sinuses, nasal cavities, and eye socket, leaving her face severely disfigured. She also lost her senses of sight, taste, and smell and suffered severe pain that she refused to relieve with morphine due to its side effects, stating, \"drugs are chemicals, chemicals are poison, and I won't make matters worse by poisoning myself.\"\n\nSébire first gained recognition in February 2008 when she made a public appeal to the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, to allow her to die through euthanasia, stating that \"One would not allow an animal to go through what I have endured.\" On 17 March 2008, she lost her case in a French court, with the magistrate noting that while French law does allow for the removal of life-support equipment for terminally ill patients, it does not allow a doctor to take action to end a patient's life. After the decision, Sébire said \"I now know how to get my hands on what I need, and if I don't get it in France, I will get it elsewhere\".\n\nOn 19 March 2008, she was found dead in her home. An autopsy conducted on 21 March 2008 concluded that she did not die of natural causes. Subsequent blood tests revealed a toxic concentration of the drug pentobarbital, a barbiturate that is not available in French pharmacies but is used elsewhere in the world for the purpose of physician assisted suicide.\n\nSébire's death revived the debate over euthanasia in France and elsewhere around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "34067546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34067546", "title": "Christian A. Herter Jr.", "text": "Christian A. Herter Jr.\n\nChristian Archibald Herter Jr. (January 29, 1919 – September 16, 2007) was an American politician, diplomat, oil executive and academic and the son of U.S. Secretary of State Christian A. Herter Sr.\n\nChristian Archibald Herter Jr. was born in Brooklyn, New York on January 29, 1919, and raised in Boston. His father, Christian A. Herter Sr., was elected to the United States House of Representatives as a Republican from Massachusetts in 1942, and in 1953 was elected Governor of Massachusetts. In 1959, the elder Mr. Herter became the United States Secretary of State under President Dwight D. Eisenhower.\n\nHerter's mother, the former Mary Caroline Pratt, was a granddaughter of Charles Pratt, a partner in Standard Oil of New Jersey and the founder of the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nHe received his bachelor’s from Harvard University. He graduated from Harvard Law School in 1948 and eventually joined the Boston law firm of Bingham, Dana & Gould, where he became an authority on helping U.S. companies trying to expand into the international market.\n\nHerter joined the U.S. Army in 1941, before the Pearl Harbor attack. In World War II, Herter was an officer in Europe, serving as an intelligence officer with the 14th Armored Division and was wounded by artillery shrapnel. He was awarded the Purple Heart and a Bronze Star, among other commendations.\n\nIn 1950, he was elected to the Massachusetts House of Representatives as the representative for West Newton; he was re-elected two years later but stepped down after his father became governor. \"I found it difficult to represent Newton,\" he told the \"Boston Globe\", \"while I was almost unanimously regarded as spokesman for my father.\"\n\nIn 1953 he became an aide to Vice President Richard Nixon and travelled with Nixon on his first tour of Asia that same year. After working with Nixon, Herter became the general counsel to the Foreign Operations Administration, an overseas aid program then led by former Minnesota Governor Harold E. Stassen.\n\nHerter returned to Massachusetts in the mid-1950s and served one term on the Governor's Council.\n\nBelieving the Democratic leadership at the State House had ignored development and turned the state into an economic shell, he decided to run against Governor Foster Furcolo, a Democrat. He failed to win the support of the Republican Party of Massachusetts convention in the summer, however, and withdrew to support the nominee, Massachusetts Attorney General George Fingold.\n\nThe party backed Herter to run for attorney general. He lost the general election to Democrat Edward J. McCormack.\n\nIn 1961 Herter joined the Mobil Oil Corporation, rising to become a Vice President of that company by 1967. In that same year New York Mayor John V. Lindsay appointed him as one of the inaugural members of the Urban Coalition, a group of business, labour and neighbourhood leaders created to aid the city’s slums. Mr. Herter was the coalition’s chairman until 1969.\n\nIn 1970 President Nixon appointed Herter to the post of deputy assistant secretary of state for environmental and population affairs.\n\nMr. Herter later taught environmental law at the University of New Mexico and international law at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies. In 1983, President Ronald Reagan appointed him deputy United States commissioner on the International Whaling Commission. Herter later served chairman of the U.S. Section of the International Joint Commission of the United States and Canada.\n\nHerter was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, the Metropolitan Club, the Cosmos Club and the Chevy Chase Club.\n\nMr. Herter’s marriages to Suzanne Clery (later Treadway) and Susan Cable ended in divorce. He was survived by his wife, the former Catherine Hooker, two brothers, a sister, three children from his marriage to Treadway, four stepchildren, 16 grandchildren and step-grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.\n\nHerter died at his home in Washington D.C. of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on September 16, 2007. He was 88 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "171644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171644", "title": "Computational archaeology", "text": "Computational archaeology\n\nComputational archaeology describes computer-based analytical methods for the study of long-term human behaviour and behavioural evolution. As with other sub-disciplines that have prefixed 'computational' to their name (e.g. computational biology, computational physics and computational sociology), the term is reserved for (generally mathematical) methods that could not realistically be performed without the aid of a computer.\n\nComputational archaeology may include the use of geographical information systems (GIS), especially when applied to spatial analyses such as viewshed analysis and least-cost path analysis as these approaches are sufficiently computationally complex that they are extremely difficult if not impossible to implement without the processing power of a computer. Likewise, some forms of statistical and mathematical modelling, and the computer simulation of human behaviour and behavioural evolution using software tools such as Swarm or Repast would also be impossible to calculate without computational aid. The application of a variety of other forms of complex and bespoke software to solve archaeological problems, such as human perception and movement within built environments using software such as University College London's Space Syntax program, also falls under the term 'computational archaeology'.\n\nComputational archaeology is also known as archaeological informatics (Burenhult 2002, Huggett and Ross 2004) or archaeoinformatics (sometimes abbreviated as \"AI\", but not to be confused with artificial intelligence).\n\nIn recent years, it has become clear that archaeologists will only be able to harvest the full potential of quantitative methods and computer technology if they become aware of the specific pitfalls and potentials inherent in the archaeological data and research process. AI science is an emerging discipline that attempts to uncover, quantitatively represent and explore specific properties and patterns of archaeological information. Fundamental research on data and methods for a self-sufficient archaeological approach to information processing produces quantitative methods and computer software specifically geared towards archaeological problem solving and understanding.\n\nAI science is capable of complementing and enhancing almost any area of scientific archaeological research. It incorporates a large part of the methods and theories developed in quantitative archaeology since the 1960s but goes beyond former attempts at quantifying archaeology by exploring ways to represent general archaeological information and problem structures as computer algorithms and data structures. This opens archaeological analysis to a wide range of computer-based information processing methods fit to solve problems of great complexity. It also promotes a formalized understanding of the discipline's research objects and creates links between archaeology and other quantitative disciplines, both in methods and software technology. Its agenda can be split up in two major research themes that complement each other:\n\n\nThere is already a large body of literature on the use of quantitative methods and computer-based analysis in archaeology. The development of methods and applications is best reflected in the annual publications of the CAA conference (see external links section at bottom). At least two journals, the Italian \"Archeologia e Calcolatori\" and the British \"Archaeological Computing Newsletter\", are dedicated to archaeological computing methods. AI Science contributes to many fundamental research topics, including but not limited to:\n\n\nAI science advocates a formalized approach to archaeological inference and knowledge building. It is interdisciplinary in nature, borrowing, adapting and enhancing method and theory from numerous other disciplines such as computer science (e.g. algorithm and software design, database design and theory), geoinformation science (spatial statistics and modeling, geographic information systems), artificial intelligence research (supervised classification, fuzzy logic), ecology (point pattern analysis), applied mathematics (graph theory, probability theory) and statistics.\n\nScientific progress in archaeology, as in any other discipline, requires building abstract, generalized and transferable knowledge about the processes that underlie past human actions and their manifestations. Quantification provides the ultimate known way of abstracting and extending our scientific abilities past the limits of intuitive cognition. Quantitative approaches to archaeological information handling and inference constitute a critical body of scientific methods in archaeological research. They provide the tools, algebra, statistics and computer algorithms, to process information too voluminous or complex for purely cognitive, informal inference. They also build a bridge between archaeology and numerous quantitative sciences such as geophysics, geoinformation sciences and applied statistics. And they allow archaeological scientists to design and carry out research in a formal, transparent and comprehensible way.\n\nBeing an emerging field of research, AI science is currently a rather dispersed discipline in need of stronger, well-funded and institutionalized embedding, especially in academic teaching. Despite its evident progress and usefulness, today's quantitative archaeology is often inadequately represented in archaeological training and education. Part of this problem may be misconceptions about the seeming conflict between mathematics and humanistic archaeology.\n\nNevertheless, digital excavation technology, modern heritage management and complex research issues require skilled students and researchers to develop new, efficient and reliable means of processing an ever-growing mass of untackled archaeological data and research problems. Thus, providing students of archaeology with a solid background in quantitative sciences such as mathematics, statistics and computer sciences seems today more important than ever.\n\nCurrently, universities based in the UK provide the largest share of study programmes for prospective quantitative archaeologists, with more institutes in Italy, Germany and the Netherlands developing a strong profile quickly. In Germany, the country's first lecturer's position in AI science (\"Archäoinformatik\") was established in 2005 at the University of Kiel (Benjamin Ducke, now at Oxford Archaeology), while currently there is only one regular junior professorship in Archaeoinformatics in the field of Classical Archaeology at Freie Universität Berlin. From April 2016 a new full professorship in Archaeoinformatics will be established at the University of Cologne (Institute of Archaeology).\n\nThe most important platform for students and researchers in quantitative archaeology and AI science is the international conference on Computer Applications and Quantitative Methods in Archaeology (CAA) which has been in existence for more than 30 years now and is held in a different city of Europe each year. Vienna's city archaeology unit also hosts an annual event that is quickly growing in international importance (see links at bottom).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "176927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=176927", "title": "Computational geometry", "text": "Computational geometry\n\nComputational geometry is a branch of computer science devoted to the study of algorithms which can be stated in terms of geometry. Some purely geometrical problems arise out of the study of computational geometric algorithms, and such problems are also considered to be part of computational geometry. While modern computational geometry is a recent development, it is one of the oldest fields of computing with history stretching back to antiquity.\n\nComputational complexity is central to computational geometry, with great practical significance if algorithms are used on very large datasets containing tens or hundreds of millions of points. For such sets, the difference between O(\"n\") and O(\"n\" log \"n\") may be the difference between days and seconds of computation.\n\nThe main impetus for the development of computational geometry as a discipline was progress in computer graphics and computer-aided design and manufacturing (CAD/CAM), but many problems in computational geometry are classical in nature, and may come from mathematical visualization.\n\nOther important applications of computational geometry include robotics (motion planning and visibility problems), geographic information systems (GIS) (geometrical location and search, route planning), integrated circuit design (IC geometry design and verification), computer-aided engineering (CAE) (mesh generation), computer vision (3D reconstruction).\n\nThe main branches of computational geometry are:\n\n\nThe primary goal of research in combinatorial computational geometry is to develop efficient algorithms and data structures for solving problems stated in terms of basic geometrical objects: points, line segments, polygons, polyhedra, etc.\n\nSome of these problems seem so simple that they were not regarded as problems at all until the advent of computers. Consider, for example, the \"Closest pair problem\":\n\n\nOne could compute the distances between all the pairs of points, of which there are \"n(n-1)/2\", then pick the pair with the smallest distance. This brute-force algorithm takes O(\"n\") time; i.e. its execution time is proportional to the square of the number of points. A classic result in computational geometry was the formulation of an algorithm that takes O(\"n\" log \"n\"). Randomized algorithms that take O(\"n\") expected time, as well as a deterministic algorithm that takes O(\"n\" log log \"n\") time, have also been discovered.\n\nThe core problems in computational geometry may be classified in different ways, according to various criteria. The following general classes may be distinguished.\n\nIn the problems of this category, some input is given and the corresponding output needs to be constructed or found. Some fundamental problems of this type are:\n\n\nThe computational complexity for this class of problems is estimated by the time and space (computer memory) required to solve a given problem instance.\n\nIn geometric query problems, commonly known as geometric search problems, the input consists of two parts: the search space part and the query part, which varies over the problem instances. The search space typically needs to be preprocessed, in a way that multiple queries can be answered efficiently.\n\nSome fundamental geometric query problems are:\n\n\nIf the search space is fixed, the computational complexity for this class of problems is usually estimated by:\n\nFor the case when the search space is allowed to vary, see \"Dynamic problems\".\n\nYet another major class is the dynamic problems, in which the goal is to find an efficient algorithm for finding a solution repeatedly after each incremental modification of the input data (addition or deletion input geometric elements). Algorithms for problems of this type typically involve dynamic data structures. Any of the computational geometric problems may be converted into a dynamic one, at the cost of increased processing time. For example, the range searching problem may be converted into the dynamic range searching problem by providing for addition and/or deletion of the points. The dynamic convex hull problem is to keep track of the convex hull, e.g., for the dynamically changing set of points, i.e., while the input points are inserted or deleted.\n\nThe computational complexity for this class of problems is estimated by:\n\nSome problems may be treated as belonging to either of the categories, depending on the context. For example, consider the following problem.\n\nIn many applications this problem is treated as a single-shot one, i.e., belonging to the first class. For example, in many applications of computer graphics a common problem is to find which area on the screen is clicked by a pointer. However, in some applications, the polygon in question is invariant, while the point represents a query. For example, the input polygon may represent a border of a country and a point is a position of an aircraft, and the problem is to determine whether the aircraft violated the border. Finally, in the previously mentioned example of computer graphics, in CAD applications the changing input data are often stored in dynamic data structures, which may be exploited to speed-up the point-in-polygon queries.\n\nIn some contexts of query problems there are reasonable expectations on the sequence of the queries, which may be exploited either for efficient data structures or for tighter computational complexity estimates. For example, in some cases it is important to know the worst case for the total time for the whole sequence of N queries, rather than for a single query. See also \"amortized analysis\".\n\nThis branch is also known as geometric modelling and computer-aided geometric design (CAGD).\n\nCore problems are curve and surface modelling and representation.\n\nThe most important instruments here are parametric curves and parametric surfaces, such as Bézier curves, spline curves and surfaces. An important non-parametric approach is the level-set method.\n\nApplication areas of computational geometry include shipbuilding, aircraft, and automotive industries.\n\n\n\nBelow is the list of the major journals that have been publishing research in geometric algorithms. Please notice with the appearance of journals specifically dedicated to computational geometry, the share of geometric publications in general-purpose computer science and computer graphics journals decreased.\n\n"}
{"id": "59185556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59185556", "title": "Cotton pickers strike of 1891", "text": "Cotton pickers strike of 1891\n\nThe cotton pickers strike of 1891 was a labor action of African-American sharecroppers in Lee County, Arkansas in September, 1891. The strike led to open conflict between strikers and plantation owners, racially-motivated violence, and both a sheriff's posse and a lynching party. One plantation manager, two non-striking workers, and some twelve strikers were killed during the incident. Nine of those strikers were hung in a mass lynching on the evening of September 29. \n\nIn 1886 the Colored Farmers' National Alliance and Cooperative Union had been founded by R.M. Humphrey, a white Baptist minister, reformer, and member of the parallel white Farmers' Alliance organization. Early in September 1891, Humphrey called for a national African-American strike of sharecroppers against planters, in response to the planters setting 50-cent-per-100-pound prices at their summer conventions. \n\nDespite its extensive claimed membership of millions, and despite Humphrey's announcement of 600,000 members firmly committed to strike for $1 per 100 pounds, the strike promoted for September 12 took hold nowhere. Its failure was noted and documented with some satisfaction in newspapers across the cotton-growing south. The one exception was in Lee County, a location with its own history of conflict, on the Mississippi River and across from Memphis, Tennessee. \n\nWorkers for planter Colonel H.P. Rodgers struck on September 20, demanding higher wages, and began traveling through the county looking for support. These workers were from Memphis, led by a Ben Patterson. Among other workers in the county they found no support. A brawl between striking and non-striking workers killed two on September 25. On the 28th the strikers killed a notorious plantation manager named Miller and burned a cotton gin. \n\nA posse, with some black members, was organized under Sheriff Derrick of Marianna to track down the remaining strikers and Patterson, partly on the grounds that Miller the plantation manager had been deputized. On September 29 the search led north to an island near Horseshoe Lake in Crittenden County. The strikers had been trying to work north, back to President's Island and then to Memphis. In an open battle the posse killed two strikers and captured nine. At more or less the same time, Patterson alone escaped to the steamboat James Lee and admitted his story, but was extracted from the boat, taken ashore, and shot. The nine prisoners under guard by the sheriff's men were intercepted on the road by a masked lynching party, greatly outnumbering them, that took the prisoners and hung them one by one. \n\nThe \"Arkansas Gazette\" ran coverage under the title \"Lee County Trouble Settled with Rope\". The incident directly led to the collapse of the Colored Farmers' Alliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "2646960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2646960", "title": "Disappearance of Suzy Lamplugh", "text": "Disappearance of Suzy Lamplugh\n\nSusanna J. Lamplugh (; born 3 May 1961 in Cheltenham) was a British estate agent reported missing on 28 July 1986 (aged 25) in Fulham, southwest London, England. She was officially declared dead, presumed murdered, in 1994. The last clue to her whereabouts was an appointment to show a house in Shorrolds Road to someone she referred to as \"Mr Kipper\".\n\nLamplugh was an estate agent who was reported missing after attending an appointment with someone calling himself \"Mr Kipper\", to show him round a house in Fulham. Her office diary recorded the details of the appointment as: \"12.45 Mr. Kipper – 37 Shorrolds Road O/S\", where the \"O/S\" annotation means \"outside the property\". Witnesses reported seeing a woman, who resembled Lamplugh, arguing with a man in Shorrolds Road and then getting into a car.\n\nHer white Ford Fiesta (registration: B396 GAN) was found on the night of 28 July, outside a property for sale in Stevenage Road, Fulham, which is about a mile and a half away. The hand brake was off and the car key was missing. Lamplugh's purse was found in a storage pocket in one of the car's side doors.\n\nPolice suggested that a black, left-hand drive BMW vehicle may have been involved, because of an eyewitness account of a car of that description seen at the same location as Lamplugh's car in Stevenage Road. For some time after her disappearance, it was believed that \"Kipper\" was her pronunciation of the Dutch name \"Kuiper\", but police investigations failed to identify anyone of that name in connection with Lamplugh.\n\nFollowing Suzy Lamplugh's disappearance, police tested the DNA of 800 unidentified bodies and skeletal remains that matched her description. Lamplugh was officially declared dead in 1994; she was presumed to have been murdered. Renewed police investigations in 1998 and 2000 failed to trace her. The investigation was summarised in an ITV \"Real Crime\" programme in 2002.\n\nIn November 2002, it was reported that a convicted rapist and killer John Cannan could have killed Lamplugh. He had been released from a prison hostel only days before she went missing, and it was claimed that his nickname in prison was \"Kipper\". That month, Scotland Yard held a press conference at which officers named Cannan as the person they believed to have murdered Lamplugh. Cannan denied any involvement and police investigations failed to produce any evidence linking him to Lamplugh's disappearance. In April 2001, a previous girlfriend of John Cannan, Gilly Paige, told police that he had suggested Lamplugh's body was buried at Norton Barracks, a former military base in Worcestershire. However, in December 2002, one of Cannan's fellow prisoners told police that Cannan had buried Lamplugh under the patio of his mother's house in Sutton Coldfield, in the West Midlands.\n\nIn 1982, Lamplugh had worked as a beautician on the ocean liner \"QE2\". At the same time, Steve Wright, who was convicted in February 2008 of the murder of five prostitutes in Ipswich, was working as a steward on the \"QE2\". In 2008, the Metropolitan Police investigated whether Wright was connected with Lamplugh's disappearance, but this was not a strong line of enquiry and a senior Met police officer described the link as \"speculative\".\n\nIn August 2010, police began searching a field off the B4084 between Pershore and Drakes Broughton, about three miles from the former Norton Barracks in Worcestershire, where a search had previously been carried out in December 2000 and February 2001. In December 2000, police had also searched a nearby brickworks, which had been mentioned in several of the original witness statements. The 2010 search proved unsuccessful and Lamplugh's remains were not found.\n\nIn late October 2018, police began searching the former house of Cannan's mother in Sutton Coldfield, the same property that was searched in 2002. They dismantled the garage and began removing its concrete floor, whilst also carrying out a search of the back garden. On 12 November 2018, police announced that the search of the property had ended and no evidence had been found.\n\nThe Suzy Lamplugh Trust is a charitable foundation that was established in 1986 by Suzy's parents Paul and Diana, after the disappearance of their daughter. The mission of the Trust is to raise awareness of personal safety through training and various projects, to help people avoid becoming victims of aggression, and to offer counselling and support to relatives and friends of missing people. The Trust runs the UK's National Stalking Helpline and organises National Personal Safety Day, an annual event that was first held in 2006.\n\nDiana and Paul Lamplugh were appointed to OBE in 1992 and 2005 respectively, for their charitable work with the Suzy Lamplugh Trust. Diana Lamplugh died in August 2011 at the age of 75, and Paul Lamplugh died aged 87 in June 2018.\n\nSuzy Lamplugh and her family were members of the congregation at All Saints Church, East Sheen, in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames. She is commemorated there in a stained glass window which was installed in 1996.\n\nThe case was covered by \"Casefile True Crime Podcast\" on 4 March 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25945824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25945824", "title": "Freedom™", "text": "Freedom™\n\nFreedom™, the sequel to Daemon, is the second of a two-part novel, by the author Daniel Suarez, about a distributed, persistent computer application, known as The Daemon, that begins to change the real world after the original programmer's death.\n\nThe sequel picks up shortly after the end of \"Daemon\". Sobol's distributed AI has already infiltrated the computer systems of numerous companies and governments. Many companies have surrendered, either out of fear of annihilation or because they have been converted to the fairer and more efficient system. While the Daemon is a technological creation, much of the work is carried out by human beings, compelled by the Daemon to change the world, according to the vision of Matthew Sobol.\n\nConnected by the \"Darknet\", the human followers, using Sobol's game engine (for his award-winning game \"The Gate\") as a base, have created their own ranking system and economy. Online identities mimic an MMORPG, with operatives doing tasks to gain levels and gaining access to new technologies and help from the Daemon in an effort to advance their communities. Numerous towns have slowly joined the Daemon's network as a means to improve their own situations and their society as a whole.\n\nThe rest of the world believes the Daemon is still a hoax, due to the efforts of the US government (and its allies) to appear to the general public that they are still in charge. In truth, the American political and economic system is collapsing, with the price of fuel and the unemployment rates both skyrocketing.\n\nAs with the first book, the interweaving stories follows specific characters:\n\nDetective Sebeck, now acting as an unwilling Daemon operative, has been sent on a \"quest\" by the avatar of the late Matthew Sobol, one in which will to determine the role of freedom to the human race. Using special glasses to see online Darknet items and threads, Sebeck is joined by a Daemon operative, Laney Price, and he soon learns that his quest is being monitored by the entire Darknet community.\n\nSebeck begins his quest meeting another operative named Riley, who introduces him to the newly growing Daemon communities, dubbed Holons, which are based on being self-sufficient, using natural energy sources and technologies, and avoiding the military-industrial complex opposed to the type of freedom that the Daemon communities want. Riley teaches Sebeck how to navigate the Darknet and to use it to his advantage. With Laney in tow, Sebeck journeys around the country, always witnessing important events in the history of the Daemon. Sebeck reunites with Jon in a town called Greely, Iowa.\n\nIt is one of several Midwestern towns chosen by the elite powers for invasion and destruction. Sebeck's Darknet quest thread returns, and he and Laney follow it through enemy lines, only to discover that it is a trap laid by the Major, who has developed a means of infiltrating the Daemon mainframe and make slight alterations. After being bound and interrogated by the Major, who offers to give him his former life back as a detective, husband, and father in return for his cooperation and information, Sebeck refuses. As he and Laney are taken to be executed via a wood chipper, Loki arrives with a pack of Razorbacks, killing their captors, and Moseley arrives to rescue him and Price. Reuniting with other Darknet faction members, Sebeck participates in the attack on the Sky Ranch that results in the destruction of the corporate monopoly and the Daemon research team.\n\nAfter the fighting, Sebeck resumes his quest and travels with Laney, Jon Ross, and Natalie Phillips to Morgan's Point Cemetery in Texas. The 3D avatar of Mathew Sobol reveals his intentions and desires for a world in which all are equal. Having seen both sides and the war that followed Sebeck makes the choice that the Daemon is not a threat and allows the world now forming to exist. Then, Sebeck is rewarded with an online message from his son Chris, who forgives him for all that has happened, and Sebeck happily heads home to be reunited with his family.\n\nJon Ross, fearing both the established authority and the actions of people like Loki, has joined the Daemon community to help shape it into a thing for good. He travels to China to recruit an old friend (and former spy) Shen Liang, but Liang refuses to believe that the Daemon network is real. Using Daemon technology that cloaks his image on CCTV cameras, Ross escapes before he can be taken into custody. Ross attempts to convince Natalie Phillips to join the Daemon community, but she rebuffs him. Ross then heads to Greely, meeting Hank Fossen, awaiting Sebeck's approach. The reunion is short-lived when they learn that Greely is surrounded by private security forces.\n\nRoss joins several other townsfolk to defend Greely, but they are outnumbered and outmatched by the heavy weapons and armored fighting vehicles of the private security forces. They are almost killed, but the virtual Darknet avatar of Roy Merritt, a Level 200 champion, rescues them and defeats the private security forces with airborne laser drones after they refuse to surrender. Worried that Natalie will be in danger from Loki's machines during his impending attack on Sky Ranch, he travels there to give her a Darknet Amulet of Protection. After the battle is won, he and Natalie join Sebeck in the last leg of his quest, preparing for a life together.\n\nAt the funeral for Roy Merritt, NSA Agent Natalie Philips is approached by Loki who informs her that the Daemon operatives attending are there to honor his memory. Merritt has become a folk hero of the Darknet, known as \"The Burning Man\" by the Darknet users, who respect him for his tenacity. Loki tries to show her that she is working for the wrong side, but instead, she attempts to warn the authorities. Loki, in response, attacks a number of funeral attendants but only members of the private military contractor employed by the Major, Korr Security International.\n\nFollowing the funeral, Phillips is made a scapegoat and relieved of her duties at the NSA. Ross attempts to convince her to join the Daemon community, but she refuses. Phillips has a plan to stop the government from taking control of the Daemon by destroying it. To that effect, Phillips allows herself to be recruited by the Major and a man named General Johnston. Flown to the Sky Ranch, the remaining base of operations for the ani-Daemon forces, Phillips is informed of their plan to seize control of the Daemon in a worldwide operation code, named Exorcist. After reading over a detailed report of Operation Exorcist, Phillips is highly suspicious of the relatively simple exploit in the Daemon's code that is described.\n\nWith the defeat of the General's offensive against the Daemon communities, Phillips is reunited with Ross, and together, they realize that Johnston's true plan is to allow most of the world's corporations to be destroyed by the Daemon (while protecting their own assets) and using the inevitable chaos to seize control of key facilities around the globe and declare a new world order with them in control. The General has no real use for Phillips other than to testify to the world the orthodox details of how the Daemon was supposedly defeated from the bogus report that she was given after the operation itself was over. However, they soon learn that Sobol had intentionally left fake errors in the Daemon's code and that the Daemon was many steps ahead of the private corporations, broadcasting their attempt to take over the world to the public and eliminating the personal wealth of everyone in charge. Declaring her love for Ross, together, they head off with Sebeck to witness him finish his quest and prepare for their future together.\n\nBrian Gragg (\"Loki Stormbringer\") is the most powerful known human Daemon operative in existence, a Level 56 Sorcerer. Working with only his personal contingent of Razorbacks along with advanced weapons and armor, he scours America looking for the Major. Though he is well known, his rankings is low for his antisocial behavior and his rude, spiteful disposition. Heinrich Boerner, the 3D avatar of the Nazi soldier Gragg defeated to gain the attention of the Daemon in the first place, offers to become his ally because of Loki's extremely high power level, offering to commit any act or execute any order upon the conditions of the said order being met, including taking revenge for Loki if he were to be killed. Loki quickly accepts this offer.\n\nLoki's first attempt to kill the Major fails when the Major escapes across water, where he is safe from Loki's machines, but eventually, Loki gains a lead that allows him to track the Major to a roadside motel. After using his Razorbacks, AutoM8s, and 'Angel Teeth' (guided spikes dropped from above) to kill the private security team guarding the Motel, he enters to find not the Major but an attractive girl, being held hostage. She claims that she is a low-level Daemon operative captured on a mission to deliver a valuable Darknet power ring. When Loki puts the ring on in an attempt to steal it, the ring injects Loki with a paralytic serum; he kills the girl with a blast of lightning before falling to the ground. Before falling unconscious, he sees several more men enter the room and destroy his Razorbacks, which he is unable to control, and he is finally captured by the Major.\n\nBrought to a stable, Loki is stripped nude and tortured by the Major and removed from the Daemon's network. All biometric markers are cut off including his tongue, eyes and finger tips. However, it is later revealed that he was eventually rescued by the avatar of Boerner and implanted with cybernetic eyes, fingers, and a hypersonic speech module. He rescues Sebeck from being killed and then uses his Darknet power to dispatch an enormous army AutoM8's and Razorbacks to level Sky Ranch, hellbent on killing the Major.\n\nAfter defeating the perimeter guard, his brutal assault on everyone at the Sky Ranch (including civilians) incurs the ire of the entire Daemon community. After being a large amount of negative ratings, the avatar of Roy Merritt arrives and attempts to reason with him to stop the killing, but when he refuses, Merritt uses his power to demote Loki to just level 10. Emotionally ruined and with all of his power taken away, Loki collapses, but his fellow Daemon members reach out to help him.\n\nHank Fossen is a third-generation farmer from Greely, who is recruited into the Daemon network by his daughter Jenna. Fighting a nuisance lawsuit against a company Halperin Organix, which has been illegally planting seeds on his property to create patent violations, Hank learns of Jenna's participation with a suspicious group in town. Jenna reveals the concept of the Daemon to Hank and promises that Halperin Organix's lawsuit will be dismissed now that they have gained \"level 4 legal protection.\"\n\nAn assault on their farm, by hired mercenaries, is thwarted by Ross and other Daemon operatives, but upon learning about the impending assault on Greely, Hank sends Jenna and his wife to a predetermined shelter and then tries to help make a stand with Ross and the local Sheriff. Hank is shot and killed in the assault, but his sacrifice is not in vain. Using a community-created 3D avatar of Roy Merritt to coordinate a counterattack, the holon of Greely is able to defeat the assault force.\n\nThe Major is now the most wanted man in the Daemon community for his numerous crimes including the murder of Roy Merritt. An old hand at suppressing third worlds, the Major continues to make plans against the Daemon. He ruminates about his past as a heavy for the big corporations, killing people who have threatened their exploitation of foreign countries. He escapes an attempt on his life by Loki, but the experience makes the Major realize that he may not win this war.\n\nIn battling the Daemon, the government has been forced into a difficult alliance with private corporations employing the Major, giving rise to private armies who use the cover of night and corporate propaganda to create a state of fear. Intensifying his efforts the Major has dispatched foreign bought mercenaries and uses the corporate media to lie to the general public.\n\nDeveloping a way to penetrate the Darknet by recruiting homeless teenagers, he eventually ambushes Loki taking him prisoner. He tortures Loki both for revenge and so that the Major can steal his identity within the Darknet. He later heads the Midwestern offensive from the Sky Ranch while simultaneously capturing Sebeck. After a speech in which he notes that the general population needs to be controlled by a ruling class, he orders Sebeck to be killed to keep the cover story of his past \"execution\".\n\nAfter his plans collapse, the Major hides in a secret bomb shelter at Sky Ranch and awaits a chance to escape. Ten days after the defeat of his forces, the Major heads above ground now using Loki's stolen identity, only to discover that he is surrounded by both Razorbacks and the 3D avatar of Boerner.\n\nThe book ends with his inevitable death and the start of a new world.\n"}
{"id": "51885666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51885666", "title": "Fugl-Meyer Assessment of sensorimotor function", "text": "Fugl-Meyer Assessment of sensorimotor function\n\nFugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA) scale is an index to assess the sensorimotor impairment in individuals who have had stroke. This scale was first proposed by Axel Fugl-Meyer and his colleagues as a standardized assessment test for post-stroke recovery in their paper titled \"The post-stroke hemiplegic patient: A method for evaluation of physical performance\". It is now widely used for clinical assessment of motor function. The Fugl-Meyer Assessment score has been tested several times, and is found to have excellent consistency, responsivity and good accuracy. The maximum possible score in Fugl-Meyer scale is 226, which corresponds to full sensory-motor recovery. The minimal clinically important difference of Fugl-Meyer assessment scale is 6 for lower limb in chronic stroke and 9-10 for upper limb in sub-acute stroke.\n\nIn 1975, Axel Fugl-Meyer noted that it is difficult to quantify the efficacy of different rehabilitation strategies because of the lack of a numerical scoring system. He and his colleagues developed an assessment scale to overcome this problem. The construction of this scale was based on the then existing knowledge about recovery patterns in stroke. Fugl-Meyer was particularly influenced by the 1951 paper authored by Thomas Twitchell, titled \"The Restoration of Motor Functioning Following Hemiplegia in Man\" and observations on post-stroke patients by Signe Brunnstrom. In the motor scale of Fugl-Meyer assessment, items were generated based on the ontology and stages of stroke recovery described by Twitchell and Brunnstrom respectively. When knowledge regarding Stroke recovery increased significantly in the late 20th century and early 21st century, Twitchell and Brunnstrom models were not sufficient to explain the motor recovery following stroke. However, Fugl-Meyer test still holds good, possibly because it follows a hierarchical scoring system based on the level of difficulty in performing the tasks.\n\nThe Fugl-Meyer Assessment scale is an ordinal scale that has 3 points for each item. A zero score is given for the item if the subject cannot do the task. A score of 1 is given when the task is performed partially and a score of 2 is given when the task is performed fully. However, reflex activity is measured using 2 points only, with a score of 0 or 2 for absence and presence of reflex respectively. The five domains assessed by Fugl-Meyer scale are:\nThe maximum total score that can be obtained in Fugl Meyer assessment is 226, though it is common practice to assess all domains separately. The test can be completed in around 40 minutes. To perform the test, the examiner needs a tennis ball, a small spherical shaped container and knee hammer.\n\nThe Fugl-Meyer scale has only three levels of assessment for each item. Therefore, a majority of patients get an intermediate score in most items, and remain so for a long time. The test is also reported to have ceiling effect in the sensation domain and floor effect in the balance domain. Some researchers report that Fugl Meyer assessment is time consuming.\n\n"}
{"id": "12751323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12751323", "title": "GB Genjin Land: Viva! Chikkun Ōkoku", "text": "GB Genjin Land: Viva! Chikkun Ōkoku\n\n"}
{"id": "12295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12295", "title": "Gamete", "text": "Gamete\n\nA gamete (; from Ancient Greek γαμετή \"gamete\" from gamein \"to marry\") is a haploid cell that fuses with another haploid cell during fertilization (conception) in organisms that sexually reproduce. In species that produce two morphologically distinct types of gametes, and in which each individual produces only one type, a female is any individual that produces the larger type of gamete—called an ovum (or egg)—and a male produces the smaller tadpole-like type—called a sperm. In short a gamete is an egg (female gamete) or a sperm (male gamete). This is an example of anisogamy or heterogamy, the condition in which females and males produce gametes of different sizes (this is the case in humans; the human ovum has approximately 100,000 times the volume of a single human sperm cell). In contrast, isogamy is the state of gametes from both sexes being the same size and shape, and given arbitrary designators for mating type. The name gamete was introduced by the Austrian biologist Gregor Mendel. Gametes carry half the genetic information of an individual, one ploidy of each type, and are created through meiosis.\n\nOogenesis is the process of female gamete formation in animals. This process involves meiosis (including meiotic recombination) occurring in the diploid primary oocyte to produce the haploid ovum (gamete). Spermatogenesis is the process of male gamete formation in animals. This process also involves meiosis (including meiotic recombination) occurring in the diploid primary spermatocyte to produce the haploid spermatozoon (gamete).\n\nIn contrast to a gamete, the diploid somatic cells of an individual contain one copy of the chromosome set from the sperm and one copy of the chromosome set from the egg cell; that is, the cells of the offspring have genes expressing characteristics of both the \"father\" and the \"mother\". A gamete's chromosomes are not exact duplicates of either of the sets of chromosomes carried in the diploid chromosomes, and often undergo random mutations resulting in modified DNA (and subsequently, new proteins and phenotypes).\n\nIn humans, a normal ovum can carry only an X chromosome (of the X and Y chromosomes), whereas a sperm may carry either an X or a Y (a non-normal ovum can end up carrying two or no X chromosomes, as a result of an irregularity at either of the two stages of meiosis, while a non-normal sperm cell can end up carrying either no sex-defining chromosomes, an XY pair, or XX pair as a result of the forementioned reason); ergo the male sperm can play a role in determining the sex of any resulting zygote, if the zygote has two X chromosomes it may develop into a female, if it has an X and a Y chromosome, it may develop into a male. For birds, the female ovum determines the sex of the offspring, through the ZW sex-determination system.\n\nArtificial gametes, also known as In vitro derived gametes (IVD), stem cell-derived gametes (SCDGs), and In vitro generated gametes (IVG), are gametes derived from stem cells. Research shows that artificial gametes may be a reproductive technique for same-sex male couples, although a surrogate mother would still be required for the gestation period. Women who have passed menopause may be able to produce eggs and bear genetically related children with artificial gametes. Robert Sparrow wrote, in the Journal of Medical Ethics, that embryos derived from artificial gametes could be used to derive new gametes and this process could be repeated to create multiple human generations in the laboratory. This technique could be used to create cell lines for medical applications and for studying the heredity of genetic disorders. Additionally, this technique could be used for human enhancement by selectively breeding for a desired genome or by using recombinant DNA technology to create enhancements that have not arisen in nature.\n\nPlants which reproduce sexually also have gametes. However, since plants have an alternation of diploid and haploid generations some differences exist. In flowering plants the flowers use meiosis to produce a haploid generation which produce gametes through mitosis. The female haploid is called the ovule and is produced by the ovary of the flower. When mature the haploid ovule produces the female gamete which are ready for fertilization. The male haploid is pollen and is produced by the anther, when pollen lands on a mature stigma of a flower it grows a pollen tube down into the flower. The haploid pollen then produces sperm by mitosis and releases them for fertilization.\n"}
{"id": "41811220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41811220", "title": "Greater (flamingo)", "text": "Greater (flamingo)\n\nGreater, also known as Flamingo One and Flamingo 1, (died January 30, 2014) was the world's oldest greater flamingo (\"Phoenicopterus roseus\"), residing at the Adelaide Zoo in Adelaide, Australia. It was at least 83 years old, having arrived at the zoo from either Cairo or Hamburg (records are unclear) in either 1933, 1930, 1925, or 1919 (the dates of the last four importations of greater flamingos to the Adelaide Zoo) at which point it was already a full-grown adult. Greater's sex was never determined.\n\nOn October 29, 2008, Greater was attacked and beaten by four teenagers. The almost blind bird was badly injured, but soon recovered. Its assailants were arrested, and charged with ill-treatment of an animal.\n\nIn April 2013, zoo personnel noticed that Greater was beginning to show signs of arthritis, which they attempted to treat with medication. However, in late January 2014, Greater's health deteriorated even further, and the decision was made to euthanize Greater. At the time of its death, Greater was the only greater flamingo in captivity in Australia; there is a moratorium on the importation of flamingos into Australia.\n"}
{"id": "962506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=962506", "title": "Hans Gruyters", "text": "Hans Gruyters\n\nHans Gruyters (28 April 1925, Boekel – 24 October 1980) was a Dutch criminal. In the 1950s, he was a car salesman in the Dutch province of Noord-Brabant. His nickname was \"The Black Rider\", because he once appeared completely dressed in black at a party.\n\nOn 15 November 1954, he fatally shot Jan van Dieten, a post office executive in Ravenstein. Gruyters was 29 at the time, and had already been convicted six times for smaller offences. On 16 November, he robbed a bank, and on December 31, he broke into a vicar's house in Volkel (a small village in Noord-Brabant), after which he ran a man over on a bike, killing the man in the process. By then, the police were on his trail, but this did not prevent him from trying to rob a bank in Oss some days later. He was eventually arrested on January 5, 1955, and sentenced to fifteen years in prison in 1956. \n\nHe escaped in 1957 from the prison in Scheveningen, which was widely covered in the press, but was soon found and returned to his cell. He was released in 1966.\n\nAfter being released from prison he briefly embarked on a singing career without much success.\n\nGruyters married twice, his first wife divorcing him when he was in prison. After marrying a second time, he seems to have been a reformed character, building up a cleaning business that at one point employed more than 30 people. The second marriage produced one daughter.\n\nGruyters died in 1980 after suffering a heart attack while riding his horse. He is buried in Rumpt. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "419563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419563", "title": "Hasan ibn Ali", "text": "Hasan ibn Ali\n\nAl-Ḥasan ibn Alī ibn Abī Ṭālib (, 624–670 CE), commonly known as Hasan or Hassan, is the eldest son of Ali and Muhammad's daughter Fatimah, and is the older brother of Husayn. Muslims respect him as a grandson of the Islamic Prophet Muhammad. Among Shia Muslims, Hasan is revered as the second Imam. Hasan claimed the caliphate after his father's death, but abdicated after six or seven months to Muawiyah I, the founder of the Umayyad dynasty to end the First Fitna. Al-Hasan was known for donating to the poor, his kindness to the poor and bondmen, and for his knowledge, tolerance and bravery. For the rest of his life, Hasan lived in Medina, until he died at the age of 45 and was buried in the Jannat al-Baqi cemetery in Medina. His wife, Ja'da bint al-Ash'at, is commonly accused of having poisoned him.\n\nWhen Al-Hasan was born in the year 624 CE, Muhammad slaughtered a ram for the poor on the occasion of his birth, and chose the name \"Al-Ḥasan\" for him. Fatimah shaved his head and gave the weight of his hair in silver as alms. According to Shi'ite belief, theirs was the only house that archangel Gabriel allowed to have a door to the courtyard of \"al-Masjid an-Nabawi\" (, \"the Mosque of the Prophet\"). Both Shi‘ite and Sunni Muslims consider Al-Hasan to belong to the \"Bayt\" (, \"Household\") of Muhammad, \"Ahl al-Kisa’\" (, \"People of the Cloak\"), and participants of the Event of Mubahalah.\n\nThere are many narrations showing the respect of Muhammad toward his grandsons, including the statements that his two grandsons would be \"\"sayyedā šabāb\" (masters of youth) of Paradise\", and that they were Imams \"whether they stand up or sit down\". He also reportedly predicted that Hasan would make peace between two factions of Muslims.\n\nIn the year AH 10 (631/32 CE) a Christian envoy from Najran (now in northern Yemen) came to Muhammad to argue which of the two parties erred in its doctrine concerning ‘Isa (, Jesus). After likening Jesus' miraculous birth to Adam's creation,—who was born to neither a mother nor a father — and when the Christians did not accept the Islamic doctrine about Jesus, Muhammad was instructed to call them to Mubahalah where each party should ask God to destroy the false party and their families. \"If anyone dispute with you in this matter (concerning Jesus) after the knowledge which has come to you, say: Come let us call our sons and your sons, our women and your women, ourselves and yourselves, then let us swear an oath and place the curse of God on those who lie.\" Except for al-Tabari, who did not name the participants, Sunni historians mention Muhammad, Fatimah, Al-Hasan and Al-Husayn as having participated in the Mubahalah, and some agree with the Shi'ite tradition that ‘Ali was among them. Accordingly, in the Shi'ite perspective, in the verse of \"Mubahalah\", the phrase \"our sons\" would refer to Al-Hasan and Al-Husayn, \"our women\" refers to Fatimah, and \"ourselves\" refers to ‘Ali.\n\nIt is said that one day, the ‘Abbasid Caliph Harun al-Rashid questioned the seventh Twelver Shi‘ite Imam, Musa al-Kadhim, saying why he had permitted people to call him \"Son of the Apostle of Allah\", while he and his forefathers were Muhammad's daughter's children, and that \"the progeny belongs to the male (‘Ali) and not to the female (Fatimah)\". In response al-Kadhim recited the verses Quran, 6:84 and Quran, 6:85 and then asked \"Who is Jesus' father, O Commander of the faithful?\". \"Jesus had no father\", said Harun. Al-Kadhim argued that God, in these verses, had ascribed Jesus to descendants of Prophets, through Mary, saying \"similarly, we have been ascribed to the descendants of the Prophet through our mother Fatimah\". It is related that Harun asked Musa to give him more evidence and proof. Al-Kadhim thus recited the verse of Mubahalah, and argued \"None claims that the Prophet made someone enter under the cloak when he challenged the Christians to a contest of prayer to God (the \"Mubahalah\"), except ‘Ali, Fatimah, Al-Hasan, and Al-Husayn. So in the verse, 'Our sons' refers to Al-Hasan and Al-Husayn.\"\n\nAl-Hasan was one of the guards defending ‘Uthman ibn ‘Affan when the attackers went round the latter and killed him. During the reign of ‘Ali, he was a participant in the Battles of Siffin, Nahrawan and Jamal.\n\nAccording to Donaldson there was not a significant difference between the idea of Imamate, or divine right, expressed by each Imam designating his successor and other ideas of succession at first. ‘Ali had apparently failed to nominate a successor before he died, however, on several occasions, reportedly expressed his idea that \"only the Prophet's \"Bayt\" were entitled to rule the Community\", and Hasan, whom he had appointed his inheritor, must have been the obvious choice, as he would eventually be chosen by people to be the next caliph.\n\nSunnis, on the other hand, reject Imamate on the basis of their interpretation of verse 33:40 of the Qur'an which says that Muhammad, as the \"Khatam an-Nabiyyin\" (, \"Seal of the Prophets\"), \"is not the father of any of your men\"; and that is why God let Muhammad's sons die in infancy. This is why Muhammad did not nominate a successor, as he wanted to leave the succession to be resolved \"by the Muslim Community on the basis of the Qur’anic principle of consultation (Shura)\". The question Madelung proposes here is why the family members of Muhammad should not inherit other (other than prophethood) aspects of Muhammad's character such as \"Hukm\" (, Rule), \"Hikmah\" (, Wisdom), and \"Imamah\" (, Leadership). Since the Sunni concept of the \"true caliphate\" itself defines it as a \"succession of the Prophet in every respect except his prophethood\", Madelung further asks \"If God really wanted to indicate that he should not be succeeded by any of his family, why did He not let his grandsons and other kin die like his sons?\"\n\nAfter ‘Ali was assassinated, Al-Hasan became the caliph of the Ummah, in a manner which followed the custom established by Abu Bakr. He made a speech at \"al-Masjid al-Mu‘azzam bil-Kufah\" (, \"the Great Mosque in Al-Kufah\") in which he praised the merits of his family, quoting verses of the Qur'an on the matter: \"I am of the family of the Prophet from whom Allah has removed filth and whom He has purified, whose love He has made obligatory in ًHis Book when He said: \"Whosoever performs a good act, We shall increase the good in it.\" Performing a good act is love for us, the family of the Prophet.\" Qays ibn Sa'd was the first to give allegiance to him. Qays then stipulated the condition that the \"Bay'ah\" (, Pledge of Allegiance) should be based on: on the Qur’an, the \"Sunnah\" (, Deeds, Sayings, etc.) of Muhammad, and on the condition of a \"Jihad\" (, Struggle) against those who declared \"Halal\" (, Lawful) that which was \"Haram\" (, Unlawful). Hasan, however, tried to avoid the last condition by saying that it was implicitly included in the first two, as if he knew, as Jafri put it, from the very beginning, the Iraqis' lack of resolution in time of trials, and thus Hasan wanted to \"avoid commitment to an extreme stand which might lead to complete disaster.\"\n\nAs soon as the news of Hasan's selection reached Muawiyah, who had been fighting ‘Ali for the caliphate, he condemned the selection, and declared his decision not to recognise him. Letters exchanged between Al-Hasan and Mu‘awiyah before their troops faced each other were to no avail. However, these letters, which are recorded in Madelung and Jafri's books, provide useful arguments concerning the rights of caliphate which will lead to the origin of the \"Shi‘ah\" (, Party) (of ‘Ali and the Household of Muhammad). In one of his long letters to Muawiyah in which he summoned him to pledge allegiance to him, Hasan made use of the argument of his father, Ali, which the latter had advanced against Abu Bakr after the death of Muhammad. Ali had said: \"If Quraysh could claim the leadership over the Ansar on the grounds that the Prophet belonged to Quraysh, then the members of his family, who were the nearest to him in every respect, were better qualified for the leadership of the community.\"\n\nMuawiyah's response to this argument is also interesting. For Muawiyah, while recognising the excellence of Muhammad's family, further asserted that he would willingly follow Al-Hasan's request were it not for his own superior experience in governing:\"…You are asking me to settle the matter peacefully and surrender, but the situation concerning you and me today is like the one between you [your family] and Abu Bakr after the death of the Prophet … I have a longer period of reign [probably referring to his governorship], and I am more experienced, better in policies, and older in age than you … If you enter into obedience to me now, you will accede to the caliphate after me.\"\n\nIn his book, \"The Origins and Early Development of Shi‘a Islam\", Jafri comes to the conclusion that the majority of the Muslims, who became known as Sunnis afterwards, \"placed the religious leadership in the totality of the community (Ahl al-Sunnah wal Jamaah), represented by the Ulama, as the custodian of religion and the exponent of the Qur’an and the Sunnah of the Muhammad, while accepting state authority as binding… A minority of the Muslims, on the other hand, could not find satisfaction for their religious aspirations except in the charismatic leadership from among the people of the house of the Prophet, the Ahl al-Bayt, as the sole exponents of the Qur’an and the Prophetic Sunnah, although this minority too had to accept the state's authority. This group was called the \"Shi‘ah\".\"\n\nThere was more corresponding with no result, so as negotiations stalled, Mu‘awiyah summoned all the commanders of his forces in Ash-Sham, the region that stretches from Syria and southern Anatolia in the north, to Palestine and Transjordan in the south, and began preparations for war. Soon after he marched his army of sixty thousand men through Mesopotamia to Maskin, on the Tigris boundary of Mosul, towards the Sawad. Meanwhile, he attempted to negotiate with Al-Hasan, sending the young heir letters asking him to give up his claim. According to Jafri, Muawiyah hoped to either force Hasan to come to terms; or attack the Iraqi forces before they had time to strengthen their location. However, Jafri says, Muawiyah knew if Hasan was defeated and killed, he was still a threat; for, another member of the clan of Hashim could simply claim to be his successor. Should he abdicate in favor of Mu‘awiyah, however, such claims would have no weight and Mu‘awiya's position would be guaranteed. According to Jafri this policy proved to be correct, for even ten years later, after the death of Al-Hasan, when ‘Iraqis turned to his younger brother, Al-Husayn, concerning an uprising, Al-Husayn instructed them to wait as long as Mu‘awiyah was alive due to Al-Hasan's peace treaty with him.\n\nAs the news of Muawiyah's army reached Hasan, he sent someone to his local governors ordering them to get ready to set out, then addressed the people of Kufah with a war speech: \"God had prescribed the \"Jihad\" for his creation and called it a loathsome duty.\" There was no response at first, as some tribal chiefs, paid by Muawiyah, were reluctant to move. Hasan's companions scolded them, asking whether they won't answer to the son of the Prophet's daughter? Turning to Hasan they assured him of their obedience, and immediately left for the war camp. Al-Hasan admired them and later joined them at An-Nukhayla, where people were coming together in large groups.\n\nHasan appointed ‘Ubayd Allah ibn al-Abbas as the commander of his vanguard of twelve thousand men to move to Maskin. There he was told to keep back Mu‘awiyah until Al-Hasan arrived with the main army. He was advised not to fight unless attacked, and that he should consult with Qays ibn Sa'd who was appointed as second in command if he were killed.\n\nWhile Al-Hasan's vanguard was waiting for his arrival at Maskin, Hasan himself was facing a serious problem at Sabat near Al-Mada'in, where he gave a sermon after morning prayer in which he declared that he prayed to God to be the most sincere of His creation to His creation; that he bore no resentment nor hatred against any Muslim, nor did he want evil and harm to anyone; and that \"whatever they hated in community was better than what they loved in schism.\" He was, he continued, looking after their best interest, better than they themselves; and instructed them not to disobey \"whatever orders he gave them.\"\n\nSome of the troops, taking this as a sign that Al-Hasan was preparing to give up battle, rebelled against him, looted his tent, seizing even the prayer rug from underneath him. Hasan shouted for his horse and rode off surrounded by his partisans who kept back those who were trying to reach him. While they were passing by Sabat, however, al-Jarrah ibn Sinan, a Kharijite, managed to ambush Hasan and wounded him in the thigh with a dagger, while he was shouting: \"God is the Greatest! You have become a \"Kafir\" (, Infidel) like your father before you.\" Abd Allah ibn al-Hisl jumped upon him, and as others joined in, al-Jarrah was overpowered, and he died. Hasan was taken to Al-Mada'in where he was cared for by his governor, Sa'd ibn Mas'ud al-Thaqafi The news of this attack, having been spread by Mu‘awiyah, further demoralised the already discouraged army of Al-Hasan, and led to extensive desertion from his troops.\n\nWhen Ubayd Allah with the Kufan vanguard arrived al-Maskin where Muawiyah had already reached, the latter sent an envoy to tell them that he had received letters from Hasan asking for an armistice and that he asked the Kufans not to attack until he finished his negotiations with Hasan. Muawiyyah's claim was probably untrue; but he had good reason to think that he could make Hasan to give in. The Kufans, however, insulted Muawiyah's envoy and reviled him. Next Muawiya sent the envoy to visit Ubayd Allah in private, and to swear to him that Hasan had requested Muawiyah for a truce, and that Muawiyah was offering Ubayd Allah 1,000,000 dirhams, half of which to be paid at once, the other half in Kufa, provided he went over to him. Ubayd Allah accepted and deserted at night to Muawiyah's camp. Muawiyah was extremely pleased and fulfilled his promise to him.\n\nThe next morning, the Kufans waited for Ubayd Allah to emerge and lead the morning prayer. Then Qays ibn Sa'd took charge and, in his sermon, severely denounced Ubayd Allah, his father and his brother. The people shouted: \"Praise be to God that He has removed him from us; stand up with us against our enemy.\" Believing that the desertion of ‘Ubayd Allah had broken the spirit of his enemy, Mu‘awiyah sent Busr with a troop to make them give up. Qays attacked and drove him back. The next day Busr attacked with a larger troop but was kept back again. Muawiyah now sent a letter to Qays offering bribes but Qays replied that he \"would never meet him except with a lance between them.\" As the news of the riot against Hasan and of his having been wounded arrived, however, both sides abstained from fighting to wait for further news.\n\nMuawiyah, who had already started negotiations with Al-Hasan, now sent high-level envoys, while committing himself in a witnessed letter to appoint Hasan his successor and give him whatever he wished. Hasan accepted the offer in principle and sent ‘Amr ibn Salima al-Hamdani al-Arhabl and his own brother-in-law Muhammad ibn al-Ash'ath back to Mu'awiyah as his negotiators, together with the envoys of the latter. Mu'awiyah then wrote a letter saying that he was making peace with Hasan on the basis that Hasan would inherit the reign after him. He swore that he would not seek to harm him; and that he would give him 1,000,000 dirhams from the treasury (Bayt al-mal) annually, along with the land tax of Fasa and Darabjird, which Hasan was to send his own tax agents to collect. The letter was witnessed by the four envoys and dated in August 661.\n\nWhen Hasan read the letter he commented: \"He is trying to appeal to my greed for a matter which, if I desired it, I would not surrender to him.\" Then he sent Abd Allah ibn al-Harith, whose mother, Hind, was Muawiyah's sister, to Muawiyah, instructing him: \"Go to your uncle and tell him: If you grant safety to the people I shall pledge allegiance to you.\" After which, Muawiyah gave him a blank paper with his seal at the bottom, inviting Hasan to write on it whatever he desired.\n\nAccording to Jafri, historians like Ya'qubi and Al-Masudi do not mention the terms of peace treaty at all. Other historians such as Dinawari, Ibn Abd al-Barr and Ibn al-Athir record different accounts of the conditions, and the timing of the black sheet sent by Mu'awiyah to Hasan was confusing in Tabari's account. The most comprehensive account, which explains the different ambiguous accounts of other sources, according to Jafri, is given by Ahmad ibn A'tham, which must have taken it from al-Mada'ini. Madelung's view is close to that of Jafri when he stipulates that Hasan surrendered the reign over the Muslims to Mu'awiyah on the basis that \"he act according to the Book of God, the Sunnah of His Prophet and the conduct of the righteous caliphs. Mu'awiyah should not be entitled to appoint his successor but that there should be an electoral council (Shura); the people would be safe, wherever they were, with respect to their person, their property and their offspring; Mu'awiyah would not seek any wrong against Hasan secretly or openly, and would not intimidate any of his companions.\" The letter was testified by Abd Allah ibn al-Harith, and Amr ibn Salima and transmitted by them to Mu'awiyah for him to take recognition of its contents and to confirm his acceptance. Hasan, thus, surrendered his control of Iraq in Rabi II 41/August 661 after a reign of seven months.\n\nAfter the peace treaty with Al-Hasan, Mu‘awiyah set out with his troops to Kufa, where at a public surrender ceremony Hasan rose and reminded the people that he and Al-Husayn were the only grandsons of Muhammad, and that he had surrendered the reign to Mu'awiyah in the best interest of the community: \"O people, surely it was God who led you by the first of us and Who has spared you bloodshed by the last of us. I have made peace with Mu‘awiyah, and \"I know not whether haply this be not for your trial, and that ye may enjoy yourselves for a time\",\" declared Hasan.\n\nIn his own speech Muawiyah told them that the reason why he had fought them was not to make them pray, fast, perform the pilgrimage, and give alms, considering that they had been already doing those, but to be their Amir (Commander or Leader), and God had bestowed him that against their will. According to some sources, he also said \"The agreement I made with Hasan is null and void. It lies trampled under my feet.\" Then he shouted: \"God's protection is dissolved from anyone who does not come forth and pledge allegiance. Surely, I have sought revenge for the blood of Uthman, may God kill his murderers, and have returned the reign to those to whom it belongs in spite of the rancour of some people. We grant respite of three nights. Whoever has not pledged allegiance by then will have no protection and no pardon.\" The people rushed from every direction to vow allegiance.\n\nWhile still camping outside Kufah, Muawiyah faced a Kharijite revolt. He sent a cavalry troop against them, but they were beaten back. Mu'awiyah now sent after Hasan, who had already left for Medinah, and commanded him to return and fight against the Kharijites. Hasan, who had reached al-Qadisiyyah, wrote back: \"I have abandoned the fight against you, even though it was my legal right, for the sake of peace and reconciliation of the Community. Do you think I shall fight together with you?\"\n\nIn the nine-year period between Hasan's abdication in AH 41 (661 CE) and his death in AH 50 (670 CE), Al-Hasan retired in Al-Medinah, trying to keep aloof from political involvement for or against Muawiyah. In spite of that, however, he was considered the chief of Muhammad's household, by Banu Hashim themselves and the partisans of Ali, who pinned their hopes on his final succession to Mu‘awiyah. Occasionally, Shi'ites, mostly from Kufah, went to Hasan and Husayn in small groups, and asked them to be their leaders, a request to which they declined to respond. Hasan has been quoted as commenting \"If Muawiyah was the rightful successor to the Caliphate, he has received it. And if I had that right, I, too, have passed it on to him; so the matter ends there.\"\n\nMadelung has quoted Al-Baladhuri, as saying that Hasan, on the basis of his peace terms with Mu‘awiyah, sent his tax collectors to Fasa and Darabjird. The caliph had, however, instructed Abdullah ibn Aamir, now again governor of Al-Basrah, to incite the Basrans to protest that this money belonged to them by right of their conquest. And that they chased Hasan's tax collectors out of the two provinces. According to Madelung, however, that Hasan would send tax collectors from Al-Medinah to Iran, after just having made plain that he would not join Mu‘awiyah in fighting the Kharijites, is entirely incredible. In any case as Mu‘awiyah came to know that Hasan would not help his government, relations between them became worse. Hasan rarely, if ever, visited Mu‘awiyah in Damascus, Al-Sham, though he is said to have accepted gifts from him.\n\nHasan's closeness to Muhammad was such that, for example, when Muhammad wanted to curse with the Najrani Christians, Hasan was with him. Muhammad also said: \"who worries him, has worried me,\"<ref name=\"kanz-ol-ommal 107/7\">Kanz al-Ummal.</ref> or \"Hasan is from me, and I am from him.\"\n\nIt is related that Hasan spent most of his youth in \"making and unmaking marriages\", so that \"these easy morals gained him the title \"mitlaq\", \"the divorcer,\" which involved ‘Ali in serious enmities.\" According to his grandson, Abdullah ibn Ḥasan, he usually had four free wives, the limit allowed by the law. Stories spread out on this subject and have led to the suggestions that he had 70 or 90 wives in his lifetime, along with a harem of 300 concubines. According to Madelung, however, these reports and descriptions are \"for the most part vague, lacking in names, concrete specifics and verifiable detail; they appear to be spun out of the reputation of al-Hasan as a \"mitlaq\", now interpreted as a habitual and prodigious divorcer, some clearly with a defamatory intent.\" Living in his father's household, \"Ḥasan was in no position to enter into any marriages not arranged or approved by him,\" says Madelung. According to Ebn Saa'd (pp. 27–28), Hasan had 15 sons and 9 daughters from six wives and three named concubines. Many of these children died in their early years. It is said that most of these marriages had a political intent in his father's interest, for he gave a part of his \"Kunya\" (, Nickname), \"Abu Muḥammad\" (, \"Father of Muhammad\"), to the first son from his first freely chosen wife after ‘Ali's death, Ḵawla bint Manẓur, daughter of a Fazāra chief and former wife of Muhammad ibn Talhah. He evidently wanted to make this son his primary heir. However, after Muhammad died, Al-Ḥasan chose his second son from Ḵawla, called 'Ḥasan', as his heir.\n\nThe early sources are nearly in agreement that Hasan was poisoned by his wife, Ja'da bint al-Ash'at, at the instigation of Muawiyah and died in the year 670 CE. Madelung and Donaldson further relate other versions of this story, suggesting that Al-Hasan may have been poisoned by another wife, the daughter of Suhayl ibn ‘Amr, or perhaps by one of his servants, citing early historians such as Al-Waqidi and Al-Mada'ini. Madelung believes that the famous early Islamic historian al-Tabari suppressed this tale out of concern for the faith of the common people. Al-Hasan is said to have refused to name his suspect to Al-Husayn, for fear that the wrong person would be killed in revenge. He was 38 years old when he abdicated the reign to Mu‘awiyah, who was 58 years old at the time. This difference in age indicates a serious obstacle for Mu‘awiyah, who wanted to nominate his son Yazid as his heir-apparent. This was unlikely due to the terms on which Al-Hasan had abdicated to Mu‘awiyah; and considering the big difference in age, Mu‘awiyah would not have hoped that Al-Hasan would naturally die before him. Hence, Mu‘awiyah would naturally be suspected of having a hand in a killing that removed an obstacle to the succession of his son Yazid.\n\nThe burial of Hasan's body near that of his grandfather, Muhammad, was another problem which could have led to bloodshed. Hasan had instructed his brothers to bury him near his grandfather, but that if they feared evil, then they were to bury him in the Cemetery of Al-Baqi. The Umayyad governor, Saʿid ibn al-ʿĀṣ, did not interfere, but Marwan swore that he would not permit Al-Hasan to be buried near Muhammad with Abu Bakr and Umar, while Uthman was buried in the Cemetery of Al-Baqi. Banu Hashim and Banu Umayyah were on the verge of a fight, with their supporters brandishing their weapons. At this point, Abu Hurairah, who was on the side of Banu Hashim, despite having previously served Mu‘awiyah on a mission to ask for the surrender of the killers of Uthman, tried to reason with Marwan, telling him how Muhammad had highly regarded Hasan and Husayn. Nevertheless, Marwan, who was a cousin of Uthman, was unconvinced, and Aisha, while sitting on a mule surrounded by her supporters, seeing the parties and their weapons, decided not to permit Hasan to be buried near his grandfather, fearing evil would occur. She said: \"The apartment is mine; I shall not permit anyone to be buried in it.\" Ibn Abbas, who was also present at the burial, condemned A'ishah by comparing her sitting on the mule at the funeral to her sitting on a camel in a war against Al-Hasan's father at the Battle of Jamal. Her refusal to allow Hasan to be buried next to his grandfather, despite allowing her father, Abu Bakr, and Umar to be buried there, offended the supporters of Ali. Then Muhammad ibn al-Hanafiyyah reminded Husayn that Hasan made the matter conditional by saying \"unless you fear evil.\" Ibn al-Hanafiyyah further asked \"What evil could be greater than what you see?\" And so the body was carried to the Cemetery of Al-Baqi. Marwan joined the carriers, and, when questioned about it, said that he gave his respect to a man \"whose \"hilm\" (, forbearance) weighed mountains.\" Governor Sa‘id ibn al-‘As led the funeral prayer.\n\nThe shrine containing Hasan's tomb was destroyed once in 1925 during the conquest of Medina as part of a general destruction of memorials in cemeteries for religious reasons. \"In the eyes of Wahabis, historical sites and shrines encourage \"shirk\" – the sin of idolatry or polytheism – and should be destroyed.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1236616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1236616", "title": "Hedorah", "text": "Hedorah\n\n, also known as the Smog Monster, is a kaiju monster who first appeared in Toho's 1971 film \"Godzilla vs. Hedorah\". The monster was named for , the Japanese word for sludge, slime, vomit or chemical ooze.\n\nWhereas Godzilla was a symbol of Japanese concerns over nuclear weapons, Hedorah was envisioned as an embodiment of Yokkaichi asthma, caused by Japan's widespread urban pollution at the time. Director Yoshimitsu Banno stated in an interview that his intention in creating Hedorah was to give Godzilla an adversary who was more than just a \"giant lobster\" and which represented \"the most notorious thing in current society\". He also stated that Hedorah's vertically tilted eyes were based on vaginas, which he considered \"scary\". The monster was originally going to be named \"Hedoron\", though this changed once the TV series \"Spectreman\" introduced a character with an identical name.\n\nThe monster was realized via various props and a large sponge rubber suit donned by future Godzilla performer Kenpachiro Satsuma in his first acting role for Toho. Satsuma had been selected on account of his physical fitness, though he stated later that he had been disappointed to receive the role, as he had grown tired of taking non-speaking roles. In performing as Hedorah, Satsuma tried to emphasize Hedorah's otherworldly nature by making its movements seem more grotesque than animal-like. Several authors have noted that, unlike most Toho monsters, Hedorah's violent acts are graphically shown to claim human victims, and the creature shows genuine amusement at Godzilla's suffering. Banno wished to bring back Hedorah in a sequel set in Africa, but the project never materialized, as he was fired by Teruyoshi Nakano, who accused him of ruining the Godzilla series. The character was nevertheless generally well received, with WatchMojo.com listing Hedorah as #7 on their \"Top 10 Godzilla Villains\" list, while \"Complex\" listed the character as #8 on its \"The 15 Most Badass Kaiju Monsters of All Time\" list.\n\nBanno had hoped to resurrect Hedorah in his unrealized project \"Godzilla 3-D\", which would have had the monster renamed \"Deathla\". Like its predecessor, Deathla would have been a shape-shifting extraterrestrial, though it would have fed on chlorophyll rather than gas emissions, and all of its forms would have incorporated a skull motif.\n\nIn \"Godzilla vs. Hedorah\", Hedorah originates from the Dark Gas Nebula in the Orion constellation, and lands in Suruga Bay as a monstrous tadpole, increasing in size as it feeds on the pollutants contaminating the water. It proceeds to rampage throughout Japan, killing thousands and feeding on gas emissions and toxic waste. Godzilla confronts Hedorah, but discovers that his atomic ray has no effect on the creature. It is later discovered that Hedorah is vulnerable to temperatures high enough to dehydrate it, so the JSDF constructs a pair of gigantic electrodes on Mount Fuji. Hedorah fights Godzilla there, and is subsequently killed when Godzilla uses his atomic breath to power the electrodes, which cripple Hedorah and allow Godzilla to incinerate its remains.\n\nHedorah briefly reappears in \"\", where it is under the control of the Xiliens. It is swiftly destroyed alongside Ebirah in Tokyo Bay by Godzilla.\n\nIn Godzilla: Monster Apocalypse, the prequel novel to Hedorah is a colony of microorganisms that consumed chemical substances in water it was found by the Chinese government and used as a bio-weapon. In the prologue of the film, it was mention that it successfully killed Rodan and Anguirus.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44864258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44864258", "title": "In the Abyss", "text": "In the Abyss\n\n\"In the Abyss\" is a short story by English writer H. G. Wells, first published in 1896 in \"Pearson's Magazine\". It was included in \"The Plattner Story and Others\", a collection of short stories by Wells first published in 1897. The story describes a journey to the ocean bed in a specially-designed metal sphere; the explorer within discovers a civilization of human-like creatures.\n\nThe Challenger expedition, arranged by the Royal Society, was the first systematic deep-sea exploration. From 1872 to 1876, HMS \"Challenger\" surveyed and explored around the world; the physical and chemical qualities of the deep sea were investigated, and biological samples were collected by dredges.\n\nThe bathysphere, a spherical deep-sea submersible which Elstead's apparatus seems to resemble, first appeared in the 1930s.\n\nElstead has invented an apparatus by which a person can travel to great depths and observe the life on the sea bed. It is a steel sphere, about nine feet in diameter, intended to withstand immense pressure. Weights attached to the sphere by a cable take it to the sea bed. The explorer makes observations through the window in the sphere, oxygen inside being replaced by a fictitious \"Myers apparatus\". A clockwork mechanism cuts the cable after a certain time, and the buoyancy of the sphere takes it back to the surface.\n\nThe sphere is to be lowered into the water from the \"Ptarmigan\", which has sailed to a region where the water is five miles deep. The organization behind the project (perhaps funded by a scientific body, or by Elstead) is not specified.\n\nThe details of the sphere, and of Elstead's plan to use it to view the ocean floor, are made clear in the conversations of Elstead and the officers of the \"Ptarmigan\"; because of the immense pressure at the depth to be explored, the officers have their doubts about the apparatus working to plan, and about Elstead's likelihood of survival.\n\nThe sphere does not return on schedule. While the ship's officers wait, \"the December sun was now high in the sky, and the heat very considerable.\" By midnight, they are fearing the worst; then they spot the re-emergence of the sphere. It is eventually retrieved at dawn.\n\nAfter a week, Elstead has recovered enough to tell his experiences. He relates the eventful descent, lasting several minutes, during which the sphere became unexpectedly hot. On the sea bed, after observing the unusual species of fish and invertebrates, he sees \"a strange vertebrated animal... The vertical pitch of its face gave it a most extraordinary resemblance to a human being... It was a biped; its almost globular body was poised on a tripod of two frog-like legs and a long thick tail.\" This creature, together with others, tow the sphere to a kind of altar in their city; the inhabitants prostrate themselves before Elstead, and chant. He observes this for several hours: eventually the cable breaks and the sphere returns to the surface.\n\nThe narrator has talked to eminent scientists, who think such a civilization is quite possible; he further speculates: \"We should be known to them, however, as strange, meteoric creatures, wont to fall catastrophically dead out of the mysterious blackness of their watery sky. And not only we ourselves, but our ships, our metals, our appliances, would come raining down out of the night... One can understand, perhaps, something of their behaviour at the descent of a living man...\"\n\nElstead never writes an account of his experience; after making improvements to the sphere, he makes another descent, but (like The Time Traveller in Wells's \"The Time Machine\") he does not return from his second adventure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18513693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18513693", "title": "Jack De Garis", "text": "Jack De Garis\n\nClement John (\"Jack\") De Garis (22 November 188417 August 1926) was an Australian entrepreneur and aviator. He worked in the dried fruits industry in the Sunraysia area around Mildura in the early 20th century, and was noted for his vibrant personality and colourful marketing style.\n\nJack De Garis was the son of Elizee De Garis, a noted irrigationist, and the younger brother of Mary De Garis, a Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery who served as a Chief Medical Officer of a field hospital in Serbia during World War I. Jack went to Mildura State School where he was described as an above-average student. However, he left at the age of nine to work in his father's businesses in Mildura. He returned to school for his secondary education at his father's urging, boarding at Wesley College, Melbourne from 1899 to 1901, where he rose to become dux of his class.\n\nDescribed as being short in stature, he capitalised on an affectionate smile and a magnetic personality. He excelled in school cricket and football, in which, despite his size, being only tall and weighing only , he confounded opposition players and coaches.\n\nDe Garis' father, Elizee De Garis, had established a successful market garden business in Mildura from about 1885. In 1908 the day-to-day business was left to Jack, and Elisha moved to Melbourne establish a selling agency for the business. Jack was just 17, but had a strong self-belief and effervescent charm. Theatrical entrepreneur Claude Kingston described him as the 'prince of ballyhoo'.\n\nDe Garis expanded the business rapidly, and in 1910 borrowed heavily to establish a packing shed, Sarnia Packing Pty Ltd, which later became part of the Sunbeam Foods Group. In 1913 he borrowed again to purchase the Pyap Village Estate at Pyap, near Loxton in South Australia. The estate was moderately successful as a farm produce settlement, but in 1921 it was broken up and sold to fund De Garis's Kendenup venture. £23,000 was raised from the sale.\n\nIn 1919, a shortage of shipping space hit the dried fruits industry which was, at that time, highly dependent on British markets. Realising his ability to market, the Australian Dried Fruits Association funded De Garis to undertake an Australia-wide American-style publicity campaign to increase domestic consumption. He also expanded into book publishing, as well as producing the \"Sunraysia Daily\" newspaper in Mildura, which employed nearly 100 staff.\n\nAlso in 1919, De Garis exposed a con-man, with a 'rank but not-too-well-sustained American accent', named George Henry Cochrane. Cochrane wrote for \"The Bulletin\" as \"Grant Hervey\", and had recently been released from prison for forgery and uttering. Cochrane emerged in Mildura and presented himself to two thousand Mildura citizens, selling the idea that the town should secede from Victoria. He started receiving ₤5 subscriptions before De Garis revealed his true identity and criminal record.\n\nAs part of his dried-fruits marketing De Garis travelled to Western Australia where, in 1920, he purchased the property of the Hassell family at Kendenup, for the purpose of building a new settlement to grow apples, potatoes and farm produce. He subdivided the land into blocks ranging from to , and set up the De Garis Kendenup (W.A.) Development Company, and the Kendenup Fruit Packing Company, which ran a dehydrating factory to process vegetables and fruit grown by the 350 settlers who he had encouraged into the area. In December 1921, De Garis was living there himself, and the enterprise was under way, with a townsite being established. However the settlement eventually foundered. It had insufficient capital and the lot sizes were uneconomically small. De Garis travelled to the United States to raise urgently needed capital, which was promised but was never forthcoming. After two years, only 30 settlers remained.\n\nThe collapse of the settlement was the subject of a 1923 Western Australian Royal Commission into Kendenup land schemes, in which fraud had been alleged. De Garis was eventually cleared of any charges.\n\nDe Garis wrote a four-act military drama \"Ambition Run Mad\", which was published both as a booklet and in serial form, in the \"Murray Pioneer\" newspaper in 1915.\n\nAs part of his publicity campaign for the Australian Dried Fruits Association, De Garis engaged the services of popular composer Reginald Stoneham to put tunes to promotional lyrics he had written. The resulting \"Sun-Raysed Waltz\" was published as sheet music. This collaboration must have enthused De Garis, as he and Stoneham then worked on an ambitious \"mystery\" musical comedy \"F.F.F.\", which had a short but successful season for Hugh D. McIntosh's Tivoli theatres in Adelaide, Perth and Melbourne in late 1920.\n\nDe Garis described himself as an aviator, and he owned several aeroplanes, but the reality was that he employed pilots to ferry him between Australian cities to carry on his business interests. Nevertheless, in an era of pioneer aviation, his intense involvement was considered relatively dangerous, and at one stage he was asked by investors to refrain from use of aeroplanes for transport.\n\nWith his pilots, De Garis set several interstate flying records. His first plane, which he acquired in June 1920, was a Boulton Paul P.9, and was flown by pilot Lieutenant A.L. Lang (AFC). Later in 1920, after the P.9 had crashed, De Garis purchased a Sopwith Gnu for £1,800. In July 1920 he employed Lieutenant Francis Stewart Briggs as his permanent pilot. He also purchased an Airco DH.4.\n\nDe Garis's first major interstate flight was in the DH.4 from Melbourne to Perth, the first time Australia had been crossed by air from east to west, a distance of . The plane landed at Belmont Park Racecourse on 2 December 1920, after 19 hours 10 minutes. One stretch of was done in 8¾ hours. De Garis, Briggs and their mechanic, Sergeant Stoward, were given a mayoral reception on their arrival in Perth. On 14 December they flew from Perth to Sydney, a distance of in a time of 21½ hours.\n\nAnother notable flight was from Mildura to Sydney (5½ hours) and on to Brisbane (4 hours 50 minutes), in January 1921. Then, on 16 January, they set off on a one-day flight from Brisbane to Melbourne, leaving at 6:15 am and reaching their destination at 7:20 pm, a flying time of 10½ hours. Stopovers were made in Grafton, Sydney and Cootamundra.\n\nThe Kendenup collapse coincided with a number of other financial failures within his empire. With mounting debts, he faked his own suicide by drowning in Port Phillip on 5 January 1925, having written almost seventy farewell letters. His letter to Stoneham read:\nSuspicions that De Garis was still alive soon surfaced and he became the subject of an eight-day nationwide search. He was apprehended the following week after arriving in Auckland, New Zealand, on the . On 17 August 1926, with debts of £420,000, De Garis committed suicide by gassing himself at his Mornington home.\n\nShortly before he died, an autobiographical novel \"Victories of Failure: A Business Romance\" (1925) was published in which he described his life and business career in great detail under the pseudonym of \"K.J. Rogers\".\n\nDe Garis married Rene (née Corbould) in September 1907 and they divorced in May 1923. The following month he married his former private secretary Violet (née Austin), with whom he had one daughter. De Garis is buried at Brighton Cemetery in Melbourne.\n\n"}
{"id": "23006809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23006809", "title": "Japanese submarine I-176", "text": "Japanese submarine I-176\n\nThe Japanese submarine \"I-176 (I-76\", until 20 May 1942) was a \"Kaidai\" type of cruiser submarine active in World War II. A KD7 sub-class boat, \"I-176\" was built for the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) in the early 1940s.\n\nThe most successful submarine of her class, she severely damaged the heavy cruiser in October 1942 and sunk the submarine in November 1943, the only Japanese submarine to sink one of her American counterparts. \"I-176\" was sunk in May 1944 in the western Pacific by the American destroyers , and .\n\n\"I-176\" was ordered in 1939 but construction did not begin until 1941 at the Kure Naval Arsenal in Hiroshima prefecture. On completion in 1942 the vessel was renamed from \"I-76\" to \"I-176\" and was sent initially to Truk in September 1942. On October 13, an American carrier group was sighted off the Solomon Islands. Japanese submarines in the area, including the \"I-176\", were ordered to travel north to carry out an attack but the \"I-176\" was the only Japanese vessel to successfully engage one of the US vessels. She attacked USS Chester (CA-27) on October 20, 1942, at some southeast of the island of Makira (then known as San Cristobal). The cruiser was badly damaged, suffering 11 killed and 12 wounded. After returning to Sydney, Australia to carry out repairs, \"Chester\" had to withdraw to Norfolk, Virginia for repairs which kept her out of the war until September 1943.\n\"I-176\" was subsequently converted to a transport role, with her gun being removed and fittings for a landing craft being added. She was ordered to Guadalcanal, where she successfully carried out the first submarine resupply operation of the Japanese garrison on the island in December 1942. A second supply mission the following month failed. In March 1943 \"I-176\" narrowly avoided destruction when she was attacked at Lae, Papua New Guinea by US B-25 Mitchell bombers while unloading supplies. Her commander, Yahachi Tanabe, was wounded by machine-gun fire from the bombers and had to relinquish command a few days later.\n\nAfter several months of repairs in Japan, \"I-176\" returned to Lae, Sio and Finschhafen in New Guinea to carry out a number of successful supply runs between July and October 1943. The submarine was ordered to Truk in November 1943 but her instructions were intercepted by US signals intelligence. Several American submarines in the Truk area were informed that a Japanese submarine was in the vicinity. A message from \"I-176\" was intercepted which reported that the vessel had \"Received direct torpedo hit en route to Truk, no damage\". It had presumably been attacked by an American submarine but had escaped damage, most likely due to a defective torpedo. On November 16, the probable attacker, , was itself sunk by \"I-176\". The \"I-176's\" log recorded that it had fired three torpedoes, claiming two hits which destroyed the target. The loss of the \"Corvina\" was not announced until March 14, 1944; she was the only American submarine to be sunk by a Japanese submarine in the entire war.\n\n\"I-176\" returned to Kure in Japan for an overhaul between the end of November 1943 and mid-March 1944. She subsequently returned to Truk in April 1944 and was despatched to Buka Island at the far western end of the Solomon Islands archipelago, where she was to undertake another supply run. She was spotted by a US patrol plane whose radio reports summoned the destroyers , and to the scene. On the morning of May 16, the destroyers began to comb the waters off Buka. \"Haggard\" made a sonar contact at . at 21:45 and began dropping depth charges. The other destroyers joined in, carrying out a series of depth-charge attacks that continued for several hours. The following morning, the destroyers found evidence of the destruction of \"I-176\" – fragments of sandalwood and cork and paper marked with Japanese words. There were no survivors. \"I-176\" was presumed lost on June 11, 1944 and was removed from the Japanese Navy List on July 10.\n\n"}
{"id": "8429721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8429721", "title": "Laurens de Graaf", "text": "Laurens de Graaf\n\nLaurens Cornelis Boudewijn de Graaf (c. 1653, Dordrecht, Dutch Republic – 24 May 1704, Cap-Français, Saint-Domingue) was a Dutch pirate, mercenary, and naval officer in the service of the French colony of Saint-Domingue during the late 17th and early 18th century.\n\nHe was also known as Laurencillo or Lorencillo or simply El Griffe (Spanish), Sieur de Baldran or simply de Graff (French) and Gesel van de West (Dutch; \"Scourge of the West\"). Henry Morgan, the governor of Jamaica, characterized him as \"a great and mischievous pirate\". De Graaf was described as tall, blond, mustached and handsome. Some Spanish thought he was the Devil in person.\n\nMany accounts of Laurens de Graaf are highly romanticized. Some historians speculate that he may have been a mulatto (\"El Griffe\" was a common nickname for those of mixed African and European ancestry). He was reportedly enslaved by Spanish slave traders when captured in what is now the Netherlands and transported to the Canary Islands to work on a plantation, prior to 1674.\n\nDuring the early 1670s, de Graaf either escaped or was freed, and French historian Vassiere recorded that he married his first wife (Francois) Petronilla de Guzmán in 1674 in the Canary Islands before moving on to the Caribbean. The Spanish governor of St. Augustine, Florida attested to his marriage in a letter written to Charles II of Spain in 1682, by referring to de Graaf as a \"stranger who was married in the Canaries\".\n\nDe Graaf began his pirate career not long after marrying de Guzmán, though no records of his activity were made until 1682 when Sieur de Pouancay, the governor of Saint-Domingue, recorded that de Graaf had been sailing \"on the account\" since approximately 1675 or 1676 as the captain of a French privateer crew.\n\nThere are some later records of his involvement, in March 1672, in a raid on Campeche by a band of pirates who attacked and torched a partially built frigate and captured the town. The next day, the same pirates captured a merchant ship loaded with over 120,000 pesos in silver and cargo, when it sailed unknowingly into the harbor.\n\nDuring the late 1670s, de Graaf is reported to have captured a number of vessels, converting each in turn to piracy. Starting with a small vessel he would capture a larger one, then use that vessel to capture a larger one again. Finally, in the autumn of 1679, de Graaf attacked the Spanish \"Armada de Barlovento\" and captured a frigate of 24-28 guns, which he renamed the \"Tigre\" (Tiger).\n\nAfter 1682, records of de Graaf's activities are far more substantial. De Graaf had become so successful that Henry Morgan, governor of Jamaica, sent the frigate \"Norwich\" pirate-hunting, under command of Peter Haywood, with de Graaf as its primary quarry.\n\nAt the same time, the Spanish saw their chance to get revenge for the loss of their frigate and the Armada de Barlovento was also sent to hunt de Graaf down. During a brief stop in Cuba, de Graaf was made aware of the plan to seek him out. Rather than waiting for the Armada, de Graaf sailed immediately in search of it. After a running gun battle that lasted several hours, the \"Princesa\" struck her colors (surrendered), having lost 50 men to de Graaf's eight or nine. In an act of kindness, de Graaf put the seriously wounded captain of the \"Princesa\" ashore with his own surgeon and a servant.\n\nThe \"Princesa\" itself carried the payroll for Puerto Rico and Santo Domingo; about 120,000 pesos in silver. After sharing out the prize, the buccaneers retired to Petit-Goâve to celebrate and refit. De Graaf made the \"Princesa\" his new flagship, renaming it the \"Francesca\".\n\nDe Graaf's next foray was a trip to Cartagena with privateer Michiel Andrieszoon. Finding few potential targets, they departed for the Gulf of Honduras. There they found two empty galleons and de Graaf decided to wait for them to be loaded with cargo. The buccaneers retired to Bonaco Island to careen. But de Graaf and Andrieszoon had their plans ruined when Nicholas van Hoorn attacked the ships and captured them empty. Having captured the vessels, van Hoorn reached Bonaco Island and proposed to join forces with de Graaf but was turned away. Later de Graaf relented and joined forces with both van Hoorn and Michel de Grammont for an attack on Veracruz. Their raiding party consisted of 5 large vessels, 8 smaller vessels and around 1300 pirates. He rounded up over six thousand local citizens, held them inside churches and denied them food and water for three days and nights. Many were tortured, and a large number of the women were raped.\n\nThe pirates arrived off Veracruz on 17 May 1683, leading with van Hoorn's two captured Spanish ships to mislead the town. Meanwhile, de Graaf and Yankey Willems slipped ashore with a small force of men. They proceeded to remove town's fortifications and incapacitate the town's defensive militia. Van Hoorn, marching overland, joined with de Graaf and attacked the town.\n\nOn the second day of plundering, the Spanish plate fleet, composed of numerous warships, appeared on the horizon. The pirates retreated with hostages to the nearby Isla de Sacrificios and waited for ransoms. A quarrel erupted between van Hoorn and de Graaf over the treatment of the hostages and the division of spoils. According to some sources the two fought a duel on a nearby beach to settle the dispute. Although neither was seriously injured during the duel, van Hoorn did receive a slash across the wrist. The wound later became gangrenous and van Hoorn died as a result of the infection two weeks later. Finally, giving up on further plunder, the pirates departed, slipping past the Spanish without hindrance.\n\nIn late November 1683, de Graaf, his compatriots and their fleet of seven ships arrived off Cartagena and held for almost a month. Local governor, Juan de Pando Estrada, commandeered three private slave trading vessels - the 40-gun \"San Francisco\", the 34-gun \"Paz\" and a smaller 28-gun galliot. 800 Spanish, led by a 26-year-old commander, set out to meet the pirates on Christmas Eve but immediately struggled against De Graaf's more experienced pirates. 90 Spaniards were killed compared to only 20 pirates. The \"San Francisco\" was grounded and the other two ships were captured. De Graaf re-floated the \"San Francisco\" as his new flagship and renamed it the \"Fortune\", later the \"Neptune\". Andrieszoon took the \"Paz\" and renamed it the \"Mutine\" (\"Rascal\") and Willems was given command of the \"Francesca\". The group released a large number of Spanish prisoners on Christmas Day and sent them ashore with a note for Governor Estrada thanking him for the Christmas presents. The pirates then proceeded to blockade the town.\n\nIn January 1684 an English convoy, led by the 48-gun \"HMS Ruby\", arrived carrying a note for de Graaf from his wife offering a Spanish pardon and commission. De Graaf ignored the note, not trusting the Spanish to keep their promises, and invited English officers to board his vessels and trade with his men. The English were allowed to pass without incident and soon after, de Graaf and his compatriots left for Petit-Goâve. In the summer and fall of 1684, de Graaf remained in Petit-Goâve. He sailed in November 1684, but had little or no success in raiding the shipping lanes.\n\nDe Graaf was next seen on \"Isla de Pinos\" presiding over a gathering of buccaneers. After his departure, he led yet another raid on Campeche. The pirates attacked on 6 July 1685. After a protracted battle, the Spaniards fled the town, leaving the pirates with a city devoid of plunder. The length of the battle and delay in attacking had allowed residents to move goods away. After two months in the town the pirates, failing to secure a ransom, began to burn the town and execute prisoners. Again, de Graaf stepped in to stop the violence against the hostages. The pirates departed Campeche in September 1685, carrying away many prisoners for ransom.\n\nThe pirates split up and de Graaf fled from a superior fleet off the Yucatán. After a day-long battle with two larger Spanish ships, he escaped by dumping all cargo and cannons overboard to lighten his ship. In February 1686, the Spanish staged a raid on de Graaf's plantation on Saint Dominque. In retaliation, de Graaf raided \"Tihosuco\", where the buccaneers looted and burned buildings. Returning to Petit-Goâve, de Graaf wrecked his ship while pursuing a Spanish barque. Nonetheless, he managed to take the barque with only his ship's long boat.\n\nAt some undetermined date in the seventeenth century, it is said that he was taken prisoner at the Convento de San Bernardino de Siena in Valladolid, in the present Mexican state of Yucatán.\n\nIn 1687, de Graaf engaged in a battle off southern Cuba with a Biscayan frigate and the Cuban \"Guarda del Costa\" (Coast Guard). He sank several \"piraguas\" and took a small ship as prize. De Graaf returned to Saint Domingue, where he defended the harbor at Petit-Goâve against Cuban invaders. In December 1689, he took ships off Jamaica. He went on to blockade the Jamaican coast for more than six months before leaving. Proceeding to the Cayman Islands, de Graaf there captured an English sloop.\n\nIn January 1691 de Graaf attacked near Santo Domingo but was soundly defeated by a Spanish force three times the size of his French forces. He narrowly escaped with his life.\n\nIn March 1693, de Graaf met and married his second wife, Anne Dieu-le-Veut. He agreed to marry her after she threatened to shoot him for insulting her. De Graaf spent the summer of 1693 leading buccaneers against Jamaica in several raids; fellow buccaneer Captain Francois Le Sage, who had sailed alongside de Graaf since before Veracruz, was killed in one of the attacks on Jamaica. The English retaliated in May 1695 with an attack on \"Port-de-Paix\" at Saint Domingue, where they sacked the town and captured de Graaf's family.\n\nLaurens de Graff was last known to be near Louisiana, where he was to help set up a French colony near present-day Biloxi, Mississippi. Some sources claim he died there; others claim locations in Alabama.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16838707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16838707", "title": "List of Los Angeles Police Department officers killed in the line of duty", "text": "List of Los Angeles Police Department officers killed in the line of duty\n\nThe following Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) officers have all been killed in the line of duty. A total of 203 officers are officially recognized as having died in the line of duty by the Los Angeles Police Department. This list also includes two Los Angeles City Marshals, the chief law enforcement officer of Los Angeles, California in the city's early years before the LAPD was established in 1869 and who headed the LAPD until 1876 as well as three other officers who are not currently recognized by the LAPD as having died in the line of duty, bringing the total shown here to 208.\n\nThe term \"line of duty\" means any action which an officer is obligated or authorized to carry out, or for which the officer is compensated by the public agency he or she serves. The term \"killed in the line of duty\" means a law enforcement officer has died as a direct and proximate result of a personal injury sustained in the line of duty. This includes law enforcement officers who, while in an off-duty capacity, act in response to a law violation, or are driving to or from work.\n\nThe fallen officers of LAPD are honored and remembered in a number of ways. The Los Angeles Police Memorial is a monument outside Parker Center, the LAPD's headquarters, and was unveiled on October 1, 1971. The monument is a fountain made from black granite, the base of which is inscribed with the names of the LAPD officers who have died while serving the City of Los Angeles. The California Peace Officers' Memorial is a wood and glass encased book containing the names of all fallen officers in California, and is attached to a wall outside the Governor's office in the state capital Sacramento. In 1988, the California Peace Officers' Memorial Monument was dedicated to the memory of the state's fallen officers. The monument is a 13-foot-tall, three-figured bronze monument in California's state capital, Sacramento, representing a county sheriff of the 1880s, a state trooper of the 1930s, and a city patrolman of the 1980s. In the United States capital city Washington D.C., the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial, which was established in 1970, honors law enforcement officials from across the nation who have died in the line of duty.\n\nWhen an LAPD officer dies, the funeral is often one of pomp and pageantry, such as that for Randal Simmons in 2008, which was observed by over 10,000 mourners and onlookers, including Los Angeles City Attorney Rocky Delgadillo, LA County Sheriff Lee Baca, Los Angeles County District Attorney Steve Cooley, LAPD Chief William J. Bratton, Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, and California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, and featured a procession of motorcycles, cars, SUVs, SWAT vehicles, and horses that lasted over an hour, a missing man formation, a riderless horse, a flag-draped casket, a three-volley salute, and \"Amazing Grace\" and \"Taps\" played by a bagpiper and bugler, respectively. It was the largest police officer funeral of its kind in the United States. Only one recent funeral did not have a riderless horse; that was Charles Heim's, as it was his duty to lead the horse at officers' funerals.\n\nKey\n— denotes information is not available.\n\n\"MoV\" in the Notes cell denotes the officer has been posthumously awarded the LAPD's \"Medal of Valor\".\n\"WoF\" in the Notes cell denotes the officer has been posthumously awarded a joint \"Hollywood Walk of Fame Star\" (located on Hollywood Boulevard and La Brea Avenue).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14416011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14416011", "title": "List of disasters in Canada by death toll", "text": "List of disasters in Canada by death toll\n\nList of Canadian disasters by death toll is a list of major disasters (excluding acts of war) which occurred in Canada or involved Canadian citizens, in a definable incident, where the loss of life was 10 or more. \n\n\n\"Note: The list below does not include aeronautical disasters in Saskatchewan or deaths to First Nations Peoples, Settlers & Military personal during the Rebellions of 1885 on The Prairies.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3823485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3823485", "title": "Martyrs of Gorkum", "text": "Martyrs of Gorkum\n\nThe Martyrs of Gorkum () were a group of 19 Dutch Catholic clerics and friars who were hanged on 9 July 1572 in the town of Brielle (or Den Briel) by militant Dutch Calvinists during the 16th century religious wars—specifically, the Dutch Revolt against Spanish rule, which developed into the Eighty Years' War. \n\nIn the first half of the Sixteenth Century, various forms of Protestantism—particularly, Lutheranism and Calvinism—were spreading through a great part of Europe. In the Low Countries, then under the rule of Spain, Emperor Charles V and his son King Philip II instituted a systematic campaign to root out the new religious movements, which resulted in a certain level of political resentment towards the authorities, including the Catholic Church.\n\nBy 1572 the Netherlands were in open revolt against Spanish rule, while in the internal rivalry among the Protestant denominations, Calvinism managed to suppress Lutheranism. On 1 April of the next year, Calvinist forces and a rebel group called the \"Watergeuzen\" (Sea Beggars) captured Brielle (Den Briel) and later Vlissingen (Flushing).\n\nIn June, Dordrecht and Gorkum fell, and at the latter the rebels captured nine Franciscans: Nicholas Pieck, guardian of Gorkum; Hieronymus of Weert, vicar; Theodorus van der Eem of Amersfoort; Nicasius Janssen of Heeze; Willehad of Denmark; Godefried of Mervel; Antonius of Weert; Antonius of Hoornaer, and Franciscus de Roye of Brussels. To these were added two lay brothers from the same friary, Petrus of Assche and Cornelius of Wijk bij Duurstede. At almost the same time the Calvinists arrested the parish priest of Gorkum, Leonardus Vechel of 's-Hertogenbosch, and his assistant.\n\nAlso imprisoned were Godefried van Duynsen of Gorkum, a priest in his native city, and Joannes Lenartz of Oisterwijk, a canon regular from a nearby priory and spiritual director for the monastery of Augustinian nuns in Gorkum. To these fifteen were later added four more companions: Joannes van Hoornaer (alias known as John of Cologne), a Dominican of the Cologne province and parish priest not far from Gorkum, who when apprised of the incarceration of the clergy of Gorkum hastened to the city in order to administer the sacraments to them and was seized and imprisoned with the rest; Jacobus Lacops of Oudenaar, a Norbertine, who became a curate in Monster, South Holland; Adrianus Janssen of Hilvarenbeek, a Premonstratensian canon and at one time parish priest in Monster, who was sent to Brielle with Jacobus Lacops. Last was Andreas Wouters of Heynoord.\nIn prison at Gorkum (from 26 June to 6 July 1572), the first 15 prisoners were transferred to Brielle, arriving there on 8 July. On their way to Dordrecht they were exhibited for money to the curious. The following day, William de la Marck, Lord of Lumey, commander of the \"Gueux de mer\", had them interrogated and ordered a disputation. In the meantime, four others arrived. It was demanded of each that he abandon his belief in the Transubstantiation, the doctrine of the real presence of Christ in the Blessed Sacrament, as well as the belief in the Papal supremacy. All remained firm in their faith. Meanwhile, there came a letter from the Prince of Orange, William the Silent, which enjoined all those in authority to leave priests and religious unmolested. Despite this call, on 9 July, they were hanged in a turfshed.\n\nA shrub bearing 19 white flowers is said to have sprung up at the site of their martyrdom. Many miracles have since been attributed to the intercession of the Gorkum Martyrs, especially the curing of hernias. \nThe beatification of the martyrs took place on 14 November 1675, and their canonization on 29 June 1867. Their elevation to sainthood, which took place on the Feast of Saints Peter and Paul, was part of grand celebrations marking 1,800 years since the traditional year for the martyrdom of the two apostles in Rome.\n\nFor many years the place of their martyrdom in Brielle has been the scene of numerous pilgrimages and processions. The reliquary of their remains is now enshrined in the Church of Saint Nicholas, Brussels, Belgium.\n\n \nThere were 11 Franciscan friars or \"Minderbroeders\" (Friars Minor), one Dominican friar or \"Predikheer\", two Norbertine canons regular and a local canon regular, or \"witheren\" and five \"wereldheren\" (secular clergy). The 19 put to death on 9 July 1572 were:\n\n"}
{"id": "35463601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35463601", "title": "Maternal health in Angola", "text": "Maternal health in Angola\n\nMaternal health in Angola is a very complicated issue. In the Sub-Saharan region of Africa where Angola is located, poor maternal health has been an ongoing problem contributing to the decreased level of health in the population in the early 21st century. \n\nAccording to the World Health Organization (WHO), maternal health refers to the health of women during pregnancy, childbirth, and the postpartum period. Maternal health is an important factor in determining the status of health in all countries as the health of newborns, which depends on the health of the mother, has an effect on the developmental stages of each individual. In Angola, maternal health is affected by many different factors, including the country's history, economic state, and overall prevalence of infectious diseases. \n\nThe WHO lists the leading causes of maternal death as severe bleeding, infections, high blood pressure during pregnancy, obstructed labor, and unsafe abortions. These causes compose approximately 80 percent of all maternal mortalities worldwide with the vast majority occurring in developing countries. The other remaining factors that contribute to maternal death include malaria, anemia, and HIV/AIDS during pregnancy. The WHO also states that the reasons why so many women die during childbirth are usually poverty, long distance to care, lack of information, inadequate service, and cultural practices. All of these causes of maternal death, and the corresponding reasons, are very familiar among women in Angola.\n\nAngola represents a country with one of the highest maternal death rates in the world. Statistics vary, but the estimated maternal mortality ratio (MMR) toward the end of the Civil War was between 1,281–1,500 maternal deaths to 100,000 live births. This estimate was taken during the late 1990s and, again, in 2002 by UNICEF and represents the MMR situation in the country at the end of the War. In 2008, the estimate decreased to around 610 deaths per 100,000 live births. In comparison, Sweden is estimated to have an MMR of 5deaths to 100,000 live births.\nAccording to the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the MMR of the country appears to be decreasing since the end of the Civil War in 2002. However, it is still one of the highest in the world. On average, women give birth 7.2 times. The infant mortality ratio is 154 deaths per 1,000 live births. The mortality rate of children under 5 years of age is 254 per 1,000 live births. These figures represent improvement since the end of the War, although they still are very high and show the need for improvement in maternal health.\n\nDespite the improvements that have been made, the Human Development Index for 2011 shows a poor level of maternal health in Angola. A high level of adolescent fertility and low use of contraceptives for women of all ages was reported. This is observed by the high total fertility rate. These factors contribute to an elevated risk of health problems during pregnancy and childbirth.\n\nEconomist Amartya Sen gave an important definition of human health. Sen stated, \"Health is among the most important conditions in human life.\" Health is crucial in the growth of an economy, academic achievements, mental development, opportunities for employment and earning an income, as well as security and well-being. Maternal health is considerably more important because it is directly related to the health of an unborn child. The health conditions of a pregnant woman affect her child throughout the child's life. Sen explains that an individual's capabilities to live a fulfilled life are dependent on their mental and physical capabilities. These capabilities are greatly influenced by maternal factors. \n\nIn any given country, the health of the people is affected by many different factors. Health factors can be as simple as daily life activities, as well as national and cultural customs. Specifically, maternal health, according to Dr. Jacobsen, is closely related to social economic class, education, economics, topography, and infectious diseases. The health risks and factors that women in Angola face are unique to the country, as well as reflect the issues of the region of Sub-Saharan Africa. The health of a population is greatly influenced by what takes place in women before, during, and after pregnancy. Diseases, political conflict, cultural beliefs, health systems and practices all contribute to the health of a population by influencing maternal health.\n\nMany human capabilities have been listed by a number of economists. These capabilities try to outline the important factors needed by individuals in order to live full and enriched lives. The writer and feminist economist, Martha Nussbaum, created a list of essential capabilities that individuals need in order to be productive and content. One of the human capacities listed by Nussbaum is bodily health. Achieving bodily health in Angola is difficult for many reasons, but, especially, for the women who are in their child-bearing years. \nMartha Nussbaum and other feminist economists have tried to show in an academic environment how important gender equality is in order to establish and improve economies and health care on every level of society. In the case of Angolan women, the level of gender inequality involving health care service is unclear. The main issue facing women in Angola is not related to cultural inequality, but the fact that the health care system, infrastructure, and economy were devastated during the Angolan Civil War and have been slow to rebuild. The government has tried since 2002 to provide more basic services to the citizens, but progress is slow. Shantha Bloemen, a writer for the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), reported that progress to meet the necessary requirements that ensure an enriched life is improving slowly because the country's infrastructure and medical personnel are not yet sufficient to meet the needs of the population.\n\nEileen Stillwaggon, an economist at Gettysburg College, has written extensively on HIV/AIDS and the problems associated with the disease throughout Sub-Saharan Africa and Angola. The AIDS epidemic in the area has caused generations of people to die and has been spreading throughout the region since the 1980s. Stillwaggon addresses a number of risk factors that increase the risk of HIV/AIDS in individuals, as well as populations. She specifically addressed women and girls in Africa as falling victim to the increased risk of the HIV/AIDS infection due to both biological and social risk factors. \n\nHIV/AIDS is a problem throughout the country. It has decreased the population's health and increased the risks associated with pregnancy. However, HIV/AIDS has affected maternal health in Angola less severely than in other Sub-Saharan African countries. The Civil War affected the prevalence of HIV/AIDS paradoxically in the country. The War caused large-scale internal migration to take place across Angola. Individuals and families moved in order to avoid conflict. Citizens also left the country as refugees. Migrating people have a higher risk of contracting communicable diseases, including HIV. Throughout the 1970s, 1980s, and early 1990s, AIDS swept across many countries in the region. The Civil War in Angola created an environment of political instability and violence. The War decreased the number of foreign people entering the country and was responsible for a smaller initial population infection rate during the first years of the AIDS epidemic in Sub-Saharan Africa. This is evident by CIA country reports stating that the HIV/AIDS rate in Angola in 2008 sat at only 2 percent, compared favorably to neighboring Zambia, which has an HIV/AIDS rate of 13 percent.\n\nOf all the factors that negatively affect maternal health in Angola, the Angolan Civil War may have been the most severe. According to USAID, during the War as many as 1 million people were killed, 4.5 million people became internally displaced, and 450,000 fled the country as refugees.\nThe consequences of the War have been devastating throughout the country and had a particularly negative effect on women seeking prenatal care. In a study done to assess the health care-seeking behavior of Angolan women, it was made clear by Karne Pettersson that the War damaged the country's health infrastructure. Records in war-torn areas were not kept during episodes of violence, and many were lost due to the War. Vital records, including death and birth certificates, were not kept current, and access to reliable health care was limited for citizens. For this reason, data from this time period regarding maternal health is difficult to find. This harsh reality during the War was partially responsible for a cultural shift.\nPettersson goes on to explain that the war has affected the attitudes of women in Angola regarding health care and child birth. Understandably, the War has made women more cautious and distrustful of government programs, including health care programs. The War has caused behavioral changes in women seeking health care. It is common for women today to not seek medical attention when in childbirth but to give birth to their children at home.\n\nUnsafe abortions are one of the leading causes of maternal death in the developing world. In many African countries, abortions are considered taboo. Women who get abortions often are associated with negative stereotypes due to cultural beliefs. Many of these cultural issues force women to seek abortions in unsafe ways. According to the Women's international Network News, these \"back-alley\" abortions are the cause of thousands of deaths every year.\nMore political attention has been given to the issue of abortions in Angola due to the unsafe procedures and the health effects on young women. Justice Minister Guilhermina Prata recently presented legislation with the intent to help decrease the number of illegal abortions done in Angola. In the region of Sub-Sahara Africa, the majority, if not all, of illegal abortions are unsafe. It is believed that 40 percent of women who have an illegal abortion die due to complications of the surgery. Information on unsafe abortions in Angola is difficult to obtain. However, due to the nature of the health care system and the prevalence of unofficial fees, the number of illegal abortions is potentially much higher than is reported. The debate regarding unsafe abortions in Angola is not new and is highly affected by the cultural and religious atmosphere in the country.\n\nMaternal health in Angola is greatly influenced by culture. However, the culture in Angola is a culmination of a society that has faced decades of war, urbanization, political uncertainty, and a number of other issues that have caused poor health.\nAccording to Pettersson, on the individual level, women named the following four factors that highly influenced their decisions regarding child birth and prenatal care: 1) the individual's perception of the quality of care, 2) the process of labor, 3) the significance of informal fees, and 4) the woman's perception of being empowered to make her own decisions regarding childbirth.\nPerceptions of the quality of care vary greatly across the country. For many women, care at a formal facility is so bad that they prefer to stay at home and have a home delivery. The process of labor is affected by strong traditions. Great influence is given by grandparents with more traditional methods who normally suggest home births. However, due to more access to technology and the mixing of women in larger cities, a shift is taking place moving toward more advanced means of childbirth in formal hospitals. \n\nDespite this shift of thinking from traditional to more modern ways of child birth, other factors, such as high informal fees and an individual woman's perception of being \"courageous\", seem to bar women from seeking care in health facilities. Many women still view childbirth as an opportunity to show the physical strength that they have.\n\nOne of the major problems with maternal health in Angola is the existence of widespread poverty throughout the country. The poverty in the country is a result of the long period of violence. The infrastructure was so badly damaged during the War that electricity is not reliable or accessible to many areas, especially areas of dense poverty. Poverty is associated with an elevated risk of all kinds of health problems, especially with maternal health.\nUSAID reported in 2010, in Angola, 68 percent of the population lives below the poverty line, living on only $1.70 per day. Of these, 28 percent live in extreme poverty, living on only $0.70 per day. Poverty discourages women from seeking healthcare during childbirth. It is common for women to give birth at home for free instead of going to the hospital and being forced to pay “hidden\" fees or ad hoc fees in order to receive care. This causes complications in childbirth. If a woman waits too long to seek care and experiences a complication during delivery, emergency attention is not given, and the woman, child, or both, face a higher risk of death.\nIn Angola, ad hoc demands at clinics are commonplace. Kyllike Christensson, co-author of \"Ad Hoc Demands,\" found while studying the social aspects of child birth behavior that it is not uncommon for patients to arrive at a hospital or a clinic in need of care and be forced to wait until payment is made. In many cases, women chose to have their children at home instead of go to a hospital. This reality, along with the negative level of confidence many women have of the clinicians, results in higher numbers of MMR and IMR.\n\nChristensson explained that many international programs to improve maternal health are currently being developed and implemented in Angola. The government has implemented programs that train midwife providers in order to increase the number of births attended to by a credentialed clinician. UNICEF has reported that the government is also investing money into education and health care. The money that is generated due to the large oil reserves in the country is being used to improve maternal and child health across the country. Free clinics are available to pregnant women and women with small children.\n\nAlong with government programs in Angola, many different non-governmental organizations are becoming involved with health care and maternal health. The Christian Children Fund Angola began a program in the country shortly after the end of the Civil War. The program addressed malnourished children and specifically provided emergency obstetric care. Programs like these vary in size and their ability to adequately reach large populations. However, they continue to be important in increasing maternal health throughout the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "36119647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36119647", "title": "Polygyny in animals", "text": "Polygyny in animals\n\nPolygyny (; from Neo-Greek πολυγυνία from - \"poly-\" \"many\", and \"gyne\" \"woman\" or \"wife\") is a mating system in which one male lives and mates with multiple females, but each female only mates with a single male. Systems where several females mate with several males are defined either as promiscuity or polygynandry. Lek mating is frequently regarded as a form of polygyny because one male mates with many females, but lek-based mating systems differ in that the male has no attachment to the females with whom he mates, and that mating females lack attachment to one another.\n\nPolygyny is typical of one-male, multi-female groups and can be found in many species including: gorilla, elephant seal, red-winged warbler, house wren, hamadryas baboon, common pheasant, red deer, Bengal tiger, \"Xylocopa varipuncta\", \"Anthidium manicatum\" and elk. Oftentimes in polygynous systems, females will provide the majority of parental care.\n\nWhen two animals mate, they both share an interest in the success of the offspring, though often to different extremes. Unless the male and female are perfectly monogamous, meaning that they mate for life and take no other partners, even after the original mate's death, the amount of parental care will vary. Instead, it is much more common for polygynous mating to happen. Polygynous structures (excluding leks) are estimated to occur in up to 90% of mammals.\n\nPolygyny in birds occurs infrequently when compared to mammals, as monogamy is most commonly observed. Evolutionarily speaking, polygyny in birds might have evolved because many females do not require male support to care for their offspring. Because females do not need extra help raising their nests, males can afford to invest in multiple females. Nonetheless, male parental care is often found in many polygynous territorial bird species, leading to female competition for male assistance. Most often, males will seek a second female to impregnate, once the first female has laid her eggs. Strongly polygynous or monogamous species display increased female-female aggression. Many factors affect female aggression including predator density, habitat quality, nest spacing, and territory size. Oftentimes females will fight for resources from the male, such as food and nest protection. The female disadvantages of mating with an already-mated male bird can be overcome with ample resources provided by the male, resulting in female choice.\n\nIn 1977, Emlen and Oring created a mating systems model that shows how resource distribution affects female living patterns and subsequently, mating systems. In a mating system, the limiting sex (usually females) is the one that the limited sex (usually males) tries to monopolize. The combination of resource distribution, parental care, and female breeding synchrony determines what mating strategies the limited sex will employ. Polygyny will occur when resources are localized and females form clusters, making it easier for males to control them. The various types of polygyny result because of the differential access individuals have to resources.\n\nWhen females continually move and are not spatially stable, males pursue a mate defense strategy. When the females are clumped, four types of polygyny occur.\nWhen females are spatially stable in and around a resource, males pursue a resource defense strategy and polygyny occurs when the females are clumped and the offspring require little to no parental care (e.g. yellow-bellied marmots, orange-rumped honeyguides).\n\nIn polygynous systems there is less genetic diversity due to the fact that one male sires all of the offspring. While being the only father to all offspring is extremely beneficial to a male's fitness, it increases the chance of inbreeding and the passing on of genetic disorders. Additionally, it is difficult for males to monopolize many females at once, leading to extra-pair copulations in which a few females are able to mate with another male, while not being watched by the breeding male. (Some studies also show that EPC is less common in polygyny compared to monogamy.) These breeding males also have short tenure, and it is common for groups of males who do not have harems to attack a breeding male in order to gain reproductive access to his females.\n\nThe largest advantage for males in a polygynous mating system is the increased fitness and reproductive success of the lone male because he will father all the offspring. Being the sole male of a harem is highly advantageous for the male because he has a much higher chance of his progeny surviving, which means he is passing on his genes to more individuals.\n\nDue to the fact that one male sires all of the offspring there is less genetic diversity in the community, which is disadvantageous to females. Additionally, females sometimes encounter infanticide, which is when a breeding male is overthrown and a new breeding male becomes dominant and kills all of their current offspring, as he has not fathered them. Because the females no longer have offspring to nurse, they will go into estrous sooner, which allows the new breeding male to mate with the females earlier.\n\nSome females willingly choose polygyny in order to gain access to the \"best\" resources available. In these cases, the benefits from superior resource access must outweigh the opportunity cost of giving up monogamous parental care by a male. They also can get support from the same group of other female when in danger, like a female lion.\nFemales in polygyny may have less extra-pair copulation. In socially polygynous birds, EPP is only half as common as in socially monogamous birds. Some ethologists consider this finding to be support for the 'female choice' hypothesis of mating systems in birds. A polygynous leader male will always be the best mating choice before he is beaten by another male, so it is harder for females to find a partner better than their mate in polygyny as compared to monogamy. This might reduce the number of females at risk for EPC once their mate finds out.\n\nAn explanation for why polygynous systems persist is explained by the polygyny threshold model. This model demonstrates the link between female reproductive success and territory quality or the quality of a breeding situation. The polygyny threshold model also shows the effects of female reproductive success when multiple females in the same territory mate with one male. In this situation, the female has the option of breeding with an unmated male in a poor-quality territory or with an already-mated male in a high-quality territory. The second breeding female will receive fewer resources from the male than the first breeding female. However, if the bigamous threshold is higher than the second female's original resource threshold, the female will enter into a polygynous mating system, since she would still benefit from acquiring more resources. The polygyny threshold model can be applied to more than two females, provided there are enough resources to support them.\n\nThe great reed warbler (\"Acrocephalus arundinaceus\") is one of the few bird species that is polygynous and has a harem. Males provide resources to their harem, such as nest protection and varying levels of parental care. Females in the harem are able to breed at the same time, indicating that harem size and the number of male offspring are related. The most important factor when determining male fitness is the order in which he arrives to the territory. Males who arrive earlier increase the likelihood that they will obtain good nesting sites, improving their odds for attracting more females. Additionally, a greater song repertoire is correlated with an increase in harem size and increased male fitness because females prefer to mate with males that have a more extensive song repertoire. It is also possible that broad song repertoires are a supplementary cue for a good mate, in conjunction with male territory size and quality. A wide-ranging song repertoire develops with age, and older males are more likely to dominate better territories, giving a plausible reason as to why females prefer older males. Although highly debated, female choice in the great reed warbler may be explained by the good genes theory. False paternity and decreased offspring survival are two factors which might contribute to a decrease in male fitness.\n\nFrom an evolutionary standpoint, the most predominant characteristic that is often found in polygynous mating systems is extreme sexual dimorphism. Sexual dimorphism, or the difference in size or appearance between males and females, gives males an advantage in fights against each other to demonstrate dominance and win over harems. Sexual dimorphism can present in larger body size and canine size. Polygyny is beneficial in particular to the male because he has a greater increase in fitness and reproductive success. This increase consequently reduces the genetic diversity of the community, often leading to increased inbreeding. However, polygyny is not a particularly beneficial mating system for females because their mate choice is limited to one male. Extra-pair copulations are a strategy used by females to avoid the sexual conflict caused by polygyny, allowing them access to better mate choice. Unlike in males, extra-pair copulations are advantageous for females because they present females with more mate choice as well as increase the genetic diversity of the community. Extra-pair copulations exemplify sexual conflict, a situation in which one behavior is advantageous for one sex, but disadvantageous for the other.\n\nFemale choice, the act in which a female chooses her mate based on the attractiveness of his qualities, is very common in polygynous systems. In these cases, females will choose males based on secondary sexual characteristics, which may indicate access to better and more resources. For example, female great reed warblers (\"Acrocephalus arundinaceus\") have a preference to mate with males with larger song repertoires because this indicates that they are older and may have better nesting territories. Also, female grayling butterflies (\"Hipparchia semele\") choose males based on their performance in flight competitions, where the winning male settles in the territory best for oviposition. Female Coquerel's sifaka (\"Propithecus coquereli\") mate with the winners of battles for the harem because the male has shown that he is stronger than another, potentially offering more protection from predators. Female red-winged blackbirds (\"Agelaius phoeniceus\") exhibit aggression toward other females upon intrusion into the harem, usually heightened around breeding season. This behavior demonstrates that the females are protecting their breeding male from intruding females, suggesting they are preventing female access to a desirable mate.\n"}
{"id": "20072049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20072049", "title": "Preventive repression", "text": "Preventive repression\n\nPreventive repression is political repression of political opponents before they actually carry out any activities that would threaten the current political system. The term was used to describe the political methods of the Paraguay \"caudillo\" Stroessner, whose methods of \"nipping in the bud\" the possibilities of any real or imagined unrest were reported at a 1972 Inter-American Defense Board meeting of US and Latin American military. \n\nHerbert Marcuse, in his work \"Counterrevolution and Revolt\" operates with the term \"preventive counterrevolution\".\n\nSince then, the term has been used to describe actions of other dictatorships.\n"}
{"id": "1781370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1781370", "title": "Processed meat", "text": "Processed meat\n\nProcessed meat is considered to be any meat which has been modified in order either to improve its taste or to extend its shelf life. Methods of meat processing include salting, curing, fermentation, and smoking. Processed meat is usually composed of pork or beef, but also poultry, while it can also contain offal or meat by-products such as blood. Processed meat products include bacon, ham, sausages, salami, corned beef, beef jerky, canned meat and meat-based sauces. Meat processing includes all the processes that change fresh meat with the exception of simple mechanical processes such as cutting, grinding or mixing.\n\nIARC at the World Health Organization classifies processed meat as a Group 1, carcinogenic to humans, since it has found sufficient evidence that consumption of processed meat by humans causes colorectal cancer. \n\nA 2016 report by the American Institute for Cancer Research and the World Cancer Research Fund found that processed meat consumption increased the risk of stomach cancer. A 2012 paper by Bryan et. al. identified \"Helicobacter pylori\" as a potential causative agent that warranted further study.\n\nMeat processing began as soon as people realized that cooking and salting prolongs the life of fresh meat. It is not known when this took place, however, the process of salting and sun-drying was recorded in Ancient Egypt, while using ice and snow is credited to early Romans, while canning was developed by Nicolas Appert who received in 1810 a prize for his invention from the French government.\n\nThe preservative sodium nitrite (E250) (mixed into curing-salt) is well known for its role in inhibiting the growth of clostridium botulinum bacteria spores in processed and refrigerated meats. A principal concern about sodium nitrite is the formation of carcinogenic nitrosamines in meats containing sodium nitrite when meat is charred or overcooked. Such carcinogenic nitrosamines can also be formed from the reaction of nitrite with secondary amines under acidic conditions (such as occurs in the human stomach) as well as during the curing process used to preserve meats.\n\nNitrate and nitrite are consumed from plant foods as well as animal foods, with 80% of a typical person's nitrate consumption coming from vegetables, especially leafy and root vegetables such as spinach and beets. Some nitrate is converted to nitrite in the human body. Nitrite is generally recognized as safe by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.\n"}
{"id": "9651443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9651443", "title": "Radial basis function network", "text": "Radial basis function network\n\nIn the field of mathematical modeling, a radial basis function network is an artificial neural network that uses radial basis functions as activation functions. The output of the network is a linear combination of radial basis functions of the inputs and neuron parameters. Radial basis function networks have many uses, including function approximation, time series prediction, classification, and system control. They were first formulated in a 1988 paper by Broomhead and Lowe, both researchers at the Royal Signals and Radar Establishment.\n\nRadial basis function (RBF) networks typically have three layers: an input layer, a hidden layer with a non-linear RBF activation function and a linear output layer. The input can be modeled as a vector of real numbers formula_1. The output of the network is then a scalar function of the input vector, formula_2, and is given by\n\nwhere formula_4 is the number of neurons in the hidden layer, formula_5 is the center vector for neuron formula_6, and formula_7 is the weight of neuron formula_6 in the linear output neuron. Functions that depend only on the distance from a center vector are radially symmetric about that vector, hence the name radial basis function. In the basic form all inputs are connected to each hidden neuron. The norm is typically taken to be the Euclidean distance (although the Mahalanobis distance appears to perform better in general) and the radial basis function is commonly taken to be Gaussian\n\nThe Gaussian basis functions are local to the center vector in the sense that\n\ni.e. changing parameters of one neuron has only a small effect for input values that are far away from the center of that neuron.\n\nGiven certain mild conditions on the shape of the activation function, RBF networks are universal approximators on a compact subset of formula_11. This means that an RBF network with enough hidden neurons can approximate any continuous function on a closed, bounded set with arbitrary precision.\n\nThe parameters formula_12, formula_13, and formula_14 are determined in a manner that optimizes the fit between formula_15 and the data.\n\nIn addition to the above \"unnormalized\" architecture, RBF networks can be \"normalized\". In this case the mapping is\n\nwhere\n\nis known as a \"normalized radial basis function\".\n\nThere is theoretical justification for this architecture in the case of stochastic data flow. Assume a stochastic kernel approximation for the joint probability density\n\nwhere the weights formula_19 and formula_20 are exemplars from the data and we require the kernels to be normalized\nand\n\nThe probability densities in the input and output spaces are\n\nand\n\nThe expectation of y given an input formula_24 is\n\nwhere\nis the conditional probability of y given formula_27.\nThe conditional probability is related to the joint probability through Bayes theorem\n\nwhich yields\n\nThis becomes\n\nwhen the integrations are performed.\n\nIt is sometimes convenient to expand the architecture to include local linear models. In that case the architectures become, to first order,\n\nand\n\nin the unnormalized and normalized cases, respectively. Here formula_33 are weights to be determined. Higher order linear terms are also possible.\n\nThis result can be written\n\nwhere\n\nand\n\nin the unnormalized case and\n\nin the normalized case.\n\nHere formula_38 is a Kronecker delta function defined as\n\nRBF networks are typically trained from pairs of input and target values formula_40, formula_41 by a two-step algorithm. \n\nIn the first step, the center vectors formula_5 of the RBF functions in the hidden layer are chosen. This step can be performed in several ways; centers can be randomly sampled from some set of examples, or they can be determined using k-means clustering. Note that this step is unsupervised.\n\nThe second step simply fits a linear model with coefficients formula_43 to the hidden layer's outputs with respect to some objective function. A common objective function, at least for regression/function estimation, is the least squares function:\n\nwhere\nWe have explicitly included the dependence on the weights. Minimization of the least squares objective function by optimal choice of weights optimizes accuracy of fit.\n\nThere are occasions in which multiple objectives, such as smoothness as well as accuracy, must be optimized. In that case it is useful to optimize a regularized objective function such as\n\nwhere\n\nand\n\nwhere optimization of S maximizes smoothness and formula_49 is known as a regularization parameter.\n\nA third optional backpropagation step can be performed to fine-tune all of the RBF net's parameters.\n\nRBF networks can be used to interpolate a function formula_50 when the values of that function are known on finite number of points: formula_51. Taking the known points formula_52 to be the centers of the radial basis functions and evaluating the values of the basis functions at the same points formula_53 the weights can be solved from the equation\n\nIt can be shown that the interpolation matrix in the above equation is non-singular, if the points formula_52 are distinct, and thus the weights formula_56 can be solved by simple linear algebra:\nwhere formula_58.\n\nIf the purpose is not to perform strict interpolation but instead more general function approximation or classification the optimization is somewhat more complex because there is no obvious choice for the centers. The training is typically done in two phases first fixing the width and centers and then the weights. This can be justified by considering the different nature of the non-linear hidden neurons versus the linear output neuron.\n\nBasis function centers can be randomly sampled among the input instances or obtained by Orthogonal Least Square Learning Algorithm or found by clustering the samples and choosing the cluster means as the centers.\n\nThe RBF widths are usually all fixed to same value which is proportional to the maximum distance between the chosen centers.\n\nAfter the centers formula_59 have been fixed, the weights that minimize the error at the output can be computed with a linear pseudoinverse solution:\nwhere the entries of \"G\" are the values of the radial basis functions evaluated at the points formula_61: formula_62.\n\nThe existence of this linear solution means that unlike multi-layer perceptron (MLP) networks, RBF networks have an explicit minimizer (when the centers are fixed).\n\nAnother possible training algorithm is gradient descent. In gradient descent training, the weights are adjusted at each time step by moving them in a direction opposite from the gradient of the objective function (thus allowing the minimum of the objective function to be found),\n\nwhere formula_64 is a \"learning parameter.\"\n\nFor the case of training the linear weights, formula_65, the algorithm becomes\n\nin the unnormalized case and\n\nin the normalized case.\n\nFor local-linear-architectures gradient-descent training is\n\nFor the case of training the linear weights, formula_65 and formula_70, the algorithm becomes\n\nin the unnormalized case and\n\nin the normalized case and\n\nin the local-linear case.\n\nFor one basis function, projection operator training reduces to Newton's method.\n\nThe basic properties of radial basis functions can be illustrated with a simple mathematical map, the logistic map, which maps the unit interval onto itself. It can be used to generate a convenient prototype data stream. The logistic map can be used to explore function approximation, time series prediction, and control theory. The map originated from the field of population dynamics and became the prototype for chaotic time series. The map, in the fully chaotic regime, is given by\n\nwhere t is a time index. The value of x at time t+1 is a parabolic function of x at time t. This equation represents the underlying geometry of the chaotic time series generated by the logistic map.\n\nGeneration of the time series from this equation is the forward problem. The examples here illustrate the inverse problem; identification of the underlying dynamics, or fundamental equation, of the logistic map from exemplars of the time series. The goal is to find an estimate\n\nfor f.\n\nThe architecture is\n\nwhere\n\nSince the input is a scalar rather than a vector, the input dimension is one. We choose the number of basis functions as N=5 and the size of the training set to be 100 exemplars generated by the chaotic time series. The weight formula_78 is taken to be a constant equal to 5. The weights formula_79 are five exemplars from the time series. The weights formula_12 are trained with projection operator training:\n\nwhere the learning rate formula_82 is taken to be 0.3. The training is performed with one pass through the 100 training points. The rms error is 0.15.\n\nThe normalized RBF architecture is\n\nwhere\n\nAgain:\n\nAgain, we choose the number of basis functions as five and the size of the training set to be 100 exemplars generated by the chaotic time series. The weight formula_78 is taken to be a constant equal to 6. The weights formula_79 are five exemplars from the time series. The weights formula_12 are trained with projection operator training:\n\nwhere the learning rate formula_82 is again taken to be 0.3. The training is performed with one pass through the 100 training points. The rms error on a test set of 100 exemplars is 0.084, smaller than the unnormalized error. Normalization yields accuracy improvement. Typically accuracy with normalized basis functions increases even more over unnormalized functions as input dimensionality increases.\n\nOnce the underlying geometry of the time series is estimated as in the previous examples, a prediction for the time series can be made by iteration:\n\nA comparison of the actual and estimated time series is displayed in the figure. The estimated times series starts out at time zero with an exact knowledge of x(0). It then uses the estimate of the dynamics to update the time series estimate for several time steps.\n\nNote that the estimate is accurate for only a few time steps. This is a general characteristic of chaotic time series. This is a property of the sensitive dependence on initial conditions common to chaotic time series. A small initial error is amplified with time. A measure of the divergence of time series with nearly identical initial conditions is known as the Lyapunov exponent.\n\nWe assume the output of the logistic map can be manipulated through a control parameter formula_94 such that\n\nThe goal is to choose the control parameter in such a way as to drive the time series to a desired output formula_96. This can be done if we choose the control paramer to be\n\nwhere\n\nis an approximation to the underlying natural dynamics of the system.\n\nThe learning algorithm is given by\n\nwhere\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54799459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54799459", "title": "Rolling and wheeled creatures in fiction and legend", "text": "Rolling and wheeled creatures in fiction and legend\n\nLegends and speculative fiction reveal a longstanding human fascination with rolling and wheeled creatures. Such creatures appear in mythologies from Europe, Japan, pre-Columbian Mexico, the United States, and Australia, and in numerous modern works.\n\nThe hoop snake, a creature of legend in the United States and Australia, is said to grasp its tail in its mouth and roll like a wheel towards its prey. Japanese culture includes a similar mythical creature, the \"Tsuchinoko\".\n\nBuer, a demon mentioned in the 16th-century grimoire \"Pseudomonarchia Daemonum\", was described in Collin de Plancy's 1825 edition of \"Dictionnaire Infernal\" as having \"the shape of a star or wheel\". The 1863 edition of this book featured an illustration by Louis Le Breton, depicting a creature with five legs radially arranged.\n\nNeil R. Jones' 1937 story \"On the Planet Fragment\" featured aliens dubbed the Disci, which were shaped like wheels with limbs around the circumference. One of their methods of locomotion was a \"rolling motion like that of a cartwheel.\"\n\nThe 1944 science fiction short story \"Arena\", by Fredric Brown, features a telepathic alien called an Outsider, which is roughly spherical and moves by rolling. The story was the basis for a 1967 \"\" episode of the same name, and possibly also a 1964 episode of \"The Outer Limits\" entitled \"Fun and Games\", though neither television treatment included a spherical creature.\n\nThe Dutch graphic artist M. C. Escher invented a creature that was capable of rolling itself forward, which he named \"Pedalternorotandomovens centroculatus articulosus\". He illustrated this creature in his 1951 lithograph (also known by the English title \"Curl-up\").\n\nA 1956 Scrooge McDuck comic, \"Land Beneath the Ground!\", by Carl Barks, introduced Terries and Fermies (a play on the phrase \"terra firma\"), creatures who move from place to place by rolling. The Terries and Fermies have made a sport of their rolling abilities, causing earthquakes in the process.\n\nNorthern Irish author James White's Sector General series features \"Rollers\" from the planet Drambo, doughnut-shaped aquatic organisms that do not have hearts, but which instead must roll continuously to maintain circulation by means of gravity. The Rollers are described in the short story \"Spacebird\" in the 1980 edition of \"Ambulance Ship\", and in other works in the series.\n\nIn \"The Citadel of Chaos\" (1983) by Steve Jackson, the reader may encounter Wheelies, disc-shaped creatures with four arms who move by doing cartwheels.\n\n\"Tuf Voyaging\", a 1986 science fiction novel by George R. R. Martin, features an alien called a Rolleram, described as a \"berserk living cannonball of enormous size\", which kills its prey by rolling over it and crushing it, before digesting it externally. Adults of the species weigh approximately six metric tons and can roll faster than .\n\nIn the \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" video game series, which first appeared in 1991, the eponymous Sonic and his sidekick Tails move by rolling.\n\nThe 1995 short story \"Microbe\", by Kenyon College biologist and feminist science fiction writer Joan Slonczewski, describes an exploratory expedition to an alien world whose plant and animal life consists entirely of doughnut-shaped organisms.\n\nToy animals with wheels dating from the Pre-Columbian era were uncovered by archaeologists in Veracruz, Mexico in the 1940s. The indigenous peoples of this region did not use wheels for transportation prior to the arrival of Europeans.\n\nL. Frank Baum's 1907 children's novel \"Ozma of Oz\" features humanoid creatures with wheels instead of hands and feet, called Wheelers. Their wheels are composed of keratin, which has been suggested by biologists as a means of avoiding nutrient and waste transfer problems with living wheels. Despite moving quickly on open terrain, the Wheelers are stymied by obstacles in their path that do not hinder creatures with limbs. They also make an appearance in the 1985 film \"Return to Oz\", based partly on \"Ozma of Oz\".\n\nThe 1968 novel \"The Goblin Reservation\" by Clifford D. Simak features an intelligent alien race that uses biological wheels.\n\n\"Chorlton and the Wheelies\", a British stop-motion-animated television series that aired from 1976 to 1979, was set in \"Wheelie World\", which was inhabited by three-wheeled creatures called \"wheelies\".\n\nPiers Anthony's 1977 book \"Cluster\" and its sequels feature aliens called Polarians, which locomote by gripping and balancing atop a large ball. The ball is a living, though temporarily separable, portion of the Polarian's body.\n\nDavid Brin's \"Uplift\" Universe includes a wheeled species called the g'Kek, which are described in some detail in the 1995 novel \"Brightness Reef\". In 1996's \"Infinity's Shore\", a g'Kek is described as looking like \"a squid in a wheelchair.\" The g'Kek suffer from arthritic axles in their old age, particularly when living in a high gravity environment.\n\nA 1997 novel in the \"Animorphs\" series, \"The Andalite Chronicles\", includes an alien called a Mortron, composed of two separate entities: a yellow and black bottom half with four wheels, and a red, elongated head with razor-sharp teeth and concealed wings.\n\nThe 2000 novel \"The Amber Spyglass\", by English author Philip Pullman, features an alien race known as the Mulefa, which have diamond-shaped bodies with one leg at the front and back and one on each side. The Mulefa use large, disk-shaped seed pods as wheels. They mount the pods on bone axles on their front and back legs, while propelling themselves with their side legs. The Mulefa have a symbiotic relationship with the seed pod trees, which depend on the rolling action to crack open the pods and allow the seeds to disperse.\n\nIn the 2000 novel \"Wheelers\", by English mathematician Ian Stewart and reproductive biologist Jack Cohen, a Jovian species called \"blimps\" has developed the ability to biologically produce machines called \"wheelers\", which use wheels for locomotion.\n\nThe children's television series \"Jungle Junction\", which premiered in 2009, features hybrid jungle animals with wheels rather than legs; one such animal, Ellyvan, is a hybrid of an elephant and a van. These animals traverse their habitat on elevated highways.\n"}
{"id": "46373766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46373766", "title": "Rubicon model (psychology)", "text": "Rubicon model (psychology)\n\nIn psychological theories of motivation, the Rubicon model, more completely the Rubicon model of action phases, makes a distinction between motivational and volitional processes. The Rubicon model \"defines clear boundaries between motivational and action phases\". The first boundary \"separates the motivational process of the predecisional phase from the volitional processes of postdecisional phase.\" Another boundary is that between initiation and conclusion of an action. A self-regulatory feedback model incorporating these interfaces was proposed later by others, as illustrated in the figure.\n\nThe name \"Rubicon model\" derives from the tale of Caesar's crossing the Rubicon River, a point of no return, thereby revealing his intentions. According to the Rubicon model, every action includes such a point of no return at which the individual moves from goal setting to goal striving.\n\nThe Rubicon model addresses four questions, as identified by Achtziger and Gollwitzer:\n\nThe study of these issues is undertaken by both the fields of cognitive neuroscience and social psychology. A possible connection between these approaches is brain imaging work attempting to relate volition to neuroanatomy.\n\nHuman action coordinates such aspects of human behavior as perception, thought, emotion, and skills to classify goals as attainable or unattainable and then to engage or disengage in trying to attain these goals. According to Heckhausen & Heckhausen, \"Research based on the Rubicon model of action phases has provided a wealth of empirical evidence for mental and behavioral resources being orchestrated in this manner.\" Engagement and disengagement with goals affects personal distress over the unachievable. \"By having new goals available, and reengaging in those new goals, a person can reduce distress...while continuing to derive a sense of purpose in life by finding other pursuits of value.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7336479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7336479", "title": "Sajal Barui", "text": "Sajal Barui\n\nSajal Barui () is a convicted criminal who is serving a life sentence in prison for the murder of his father, stepmother, and stepbrother. He committed the murders at the age of sixteen, on 22 November 1993 in Kolkata, India. The murders made headlines in the Kolkata press due to the gruesome nature of the crimes and because Barui and his accomplices were minors at the time.\n\nSajal Barui's father, Subal Barui, abandoned his first wife, Neoti Barui, by whom he bore a son, and had a relationship with another woman, Minati. Sajal was conceived out of this affair. After a few years, his father returned to his first wife and took Sajal along with him. Sajal did not see his natural mother after the age of eight. After his arrest, he recounted how he had often been burned with burning cigarettes and hot irons in his childhood.\n\nOn the night of 22 November 1993, Sajal and five of his friends, all of the same age, arrived at his residence in north Kolkata. Finding his stepmother alone, the group gagged her and tied her up to a chair. A similar fate befell his stepbrother when he arrived home, and also his father, shortly before midnight. Sajal and one of his accomplices, Ranjit, initially tried to murder the three victims by strangling them, but only the stepmother succumbed. Unable to kill his father and stepbrother, Sajal and Ranjit hacked and stabbed them to death. The entire ordeal took nearly three hours.\n\nAfter committing the crimes, on Sajal's directions, his friends cleaned their weapons with mustard oil and neatly organised them on the table. Exhausted with the exertion, they ate a few Bengali sweets from the refrigerator, and left a few coins on the table as \"payment\" for the food, an idea that had occurred to Sajal from watching a television programme.\n\nBefore Sajal's friends left, they tied him up to a chair and gagged him, to give the appearance that he was a victim too. Initially, he was able to allay suspicions. However, the Kolkata Police became suspicious, since he showed no signs of a struggle or any other injuries. Upon interrogation, he confessed to committing the murders and detailed the crimes. Neither he nor his accomplices showed any signs of remorse. Even when the death sentence was announced, the group chose to clap and sing in unison. Later, the Calcutta High Court reduced the sentence to life imprisonment.\n\nInitially Sajal Barui had been serving his sentence at the Dum Dum Cantonment, but he was moved to Midnapore Central Jail in July 2000 due to \"administrative problems\".\nIn 2001, while serving his prison sentence, Sajal Barui showed signs of an alleged kidney ailment and was transferred to Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital for examination. On 15 September 2001 he escaped from the hospital and was at large until early 2003. On the night of his escape, Sajal Barui hosted a beer party to which he invited the two police constables that had been put on guard to watch him. He often offered beer to the constables after it had been smuggled in by his girlfriend, so they did not suspect his motives. On that night, however, he spiked the two bottles of beer with sleeping pills and watched them fall asleep. He then walked out of the hospital unhindered.\n\nAfter escaping from the police, Sajal Barui emailed a friend in Mumbai and fled there. He married there and returned to Kolkata, leaving his wife in Asansol. He committed a number of crimes under various aliases.\nPolice officers of the Phoolbagan and Maniktala Police Stations of Calcutta were nearly successful in recapturing Sajal Barui in early 2003, after they were able to trace his girlfriend and set up a sting operation to recapture him. However, Sajal Barui did not show up for the arranged rendezvous. Sajal Barui then took refuge in the den of a local criminal known as \"Hathkata\" Bishu (Bengali for one-armed Bishu) in Lake Town, Kolkata. He worked with Bishu, under the alias Kamal, and was responsible for a robbery in the Ultadanga area of Kolkata. As the search for Kamal intensified, Sajal Barui, migrated to Jamboni, in West Midnapore district, to work for Rajeev Meti, a local criminal.\n\nIn late February 2003, a criminal who went by the name of Sheikh Raju was arrested for petty theft in the Jamboni area of West Midnapore district and was brought to Midnapore Central Jail. On 16 May 2003, after masquerading as Sheikh Raju for almost three months, this criminal was positively identified as Sajal Barui by a jailer who had met him earlier when he was serving his life sentence at the Alipore Central Jail in Kolkata.\n\nOn recapture, Sajal Barui was sent to the Presidency Jail in Kolkata. Here, he formed a network with the terrorist Aftab Ansari, the prime accused in the 2002 terrorist attack on the American Center in Kolkata, and Debashish Chakraborty, a criminal convicted of killing his girlfriend and attempting to kill his mother. Soon after this criminal nexus was discovered, Sajal Barui was shifted to the Alipore Central Jail.\nDebashish Chakraborty was moved to Midnapore Central Jail, from which he escaped on 28 May 2005, only to be recaptured two days later. After serving some time in jail Sajal Barui was released in August 2010. In June 2011, he was arrested on charges of robbery.\n"}
{"id": "1193754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1193754", "title": "Same Shaw", "text": "Same Shaw\n\nSame (John) Shaw VC (Unknown – 27 December 1859) was a Scottish recipient of the Victoria Cross, the highest and most prestigious award for gallantry in the face of the enemy that can be awarded to British and Commonwealth forces.\n\nShaw was a private in the 3rd Battalion, The Rifle Brigade (Prince Consort's Own), British Army during the Indian Mutiny when the following deed took place on 13 June 1858 at Lucknow, India for which he was awarded the VC:\nHe later achieved the rank of corporal.\n\nHis Victoria Cross is displayed at the Royal Green Jackets (Rifles) Museum, Winchester, England.\n\n"}
{"id": "56505609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56505609", "title": "Single-person spacecraft", "text": "Single-person spacecraft\n\nA single-person spacecraft is a vehicle designed for space travel. The concept has been used in science fiction and actual ships such as the Mercury capsule, Vostok and some suborbital designs. Single-person spacecraft have been envisioned as a supplement or replacement for space suits in certain applications. The Von Braun Bottle suit of the 1950s functions as a hybrid of a space suit and a one-person spacecraft.\n\nThe idea of a space-suit is that of a man-sized capsule, something beyond form-fitting space suits and rigid suits similar to EVA.\n\nWerner Von Braun, known for the moonshot project, proposed a conical bottle suit in the 1950s. In 1965, the Grumman moon suit had a hard bottle enclosure allowing the user's arms to fully retract into the suit.\n\nIn the 1970s, NASA worked on the AX-3 Hardsuit. In the 1980s, NASA Ames center developed the AX-5 hard suit to avoid having to pre-breathe for lower-pressure suits than the host spacecraft. A NASA space suit with some hard elements (named the I-Suit), was developed later.\n\nThe Manned Maneuvering Unit is noted in regard to the single-person spacecraft, and it was tested in space in 1984 during a Space Shuttle launch. Highly compact single-person spacecraft have been considered by ISS for EVA work, to avoid having to go through the decompression needed to use the lower-pressure space suits. NASA developed a body-shaped single person spacecraft called FlexCraft, with the idea of allowing more and shorter EVA. The spacecraft would be at the same atmospheric pressure as the ISS, thus removing the medical stress and time needed to decompress and compress, and the danger of the bends. A single-person spacecraft could also enhance protection against micrometeoriod impacts and radiation from cosmic rays.\n\nThe Personal Rescue Enclosure was developed for the Space Shuttle. On the ISS the combination of a Space Suit, the Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue (SAFER) and Extravehicular Mobility Unit are used, combined to form a soft-suit spacecraft for emergencies.\n\nA demonstration of single-person spacecraft for ISS, called the FlexCraft, was proposed in the 2010s. In 2018 a single person spacecraft capsule tested in a water pool by NASA. This design has a hatch at the bottom that an astronaut could enter into, but it would be at full pressure thus avoiding the need to purge nitrogen from the body for low-pressure suits. The capsule suit has little robotic arms, and might be able used for some of the tasks currently done in space suits, but the capsule suit would have enhanced micrometeoroid protection and a higher pressure atmosphere.\n\n\nHistorical spacecraft designed for single-person crews:\n\nIn the early 2010s, a company in Denmark called Copenhagen Suborbitals built a design for a one-man spaceship for sub-orbital flight, powered by the HEAT 1-X rocket. The one-man spacecraft they called Tycho Brahe was not used in space or a manned sub-orbital flight. One in-atmosphere test flight of the prototype was conducted with a crash test dummy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38764006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38764006", "title": "Snub tetraapeirogonal tiling", "text": "Snub tetraapeirogonal tiling\n\nIn geometry, the snub tetraapeirogonal tiling is a uniform tiling of the hyperbolic plane. It has Schläfli symbol of sr{∞,4}.\n\nDrawn in chiral pairs, with edges missing between black triangles:\n\nThe \"snub tetrapeirogonal tiling \" is last in an infinite series of snub polyhedra and tilings with vertex figure 3.3.4.3.\"n\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2369159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2369159", "title": "Tankero", "text": "Tankero\n\nThe tankero was originally a fictional animal that was quite popular in Finnish media in the 1970s.\n\nThe word is said to have been coined when Prime Minister of Finland Ahti Karjalainen visited a Kenyan zoo in the 1970s. He is reported as having said \"Kaikki eläimet ovat tankeroita\" (Finnish for \"All animals are \"tankeros\"\"), after misunderstanding a sign that said \"All animals are dangerous.\"\n\nThis was so popular that one Finnish magazine held a drawing competition of what the tankero would look like. The Finnish political cartoonist Kari Suomalainen drew a strip where Kalevi Sorsa meets Karjalainen and a strange-looking animal he is carrying on a leash. \"Is that a tankero?\" asks Sorsa, and the strange-looking animal replies \"No, that's Ahti.\"\n\nDuring the same period a certain number of jokes, based on English–Finnish language misunderstandings, were current: for example a person mistakenly greeting a Crimean by calling him criminal. These jokes were labelled as \"tankero jokes\" and generally told with Ahti Karjalainen as the main character.\n\nThe original meaning fell into disuse after Karjalainen's death, and today it is a slang word for something that is awkward or not properly developed, especially poor knowledge of the pronunciation or grammar of a foreign language.\n\nThe most common use of the word \"tankero\" today is \"tankero-englanti\" or \"tankero English\", meaning poorly pronounced English. The term has very strong connotations of awkward-sounding pronunciation with a very strong Finnish accent. The actual grammar and vocabulary of \"tankero English\" may well be correct, though.\n\n"}
{"id": "22210012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22210012", "title": "Tawuia", "text": "Tawuia\n\nTawuia is a millimetric disc-shaped, most likely multicellular macrofossil from the Neoproterozoic. It is considered to be synonymous with Chuaria and Longfengshania, which, in turn, are thought to represent different life stages of the same organism.\n\n\"Tawuia\" describes a more sausage- or crescent-shaped fossil; \"Chuaria\" refers to more discoial instances.\n\nThe fossils are often preserved as organic compressions. They are considered to represent microbial structures; some authors consider them to be affiliated with slime molds\nStratigraphically, they range from to the late Ediacaran.\n\n\"Chuaria\" is multicellular.\n"}
{"id": "740824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=740824", "title": "The Quick and the Dead (1995 film)", "text": "The Quick and the Dead (1995 film)\n\nThe Quick and the Dead is a 1995 American western film directed by Sam Raimi, and starring Sharon Stone, Gene Hackman, Russell Crowe and Leonardo DiCaprio. The screenplay was written by Simon Moore but includes contributions from Joss Whedon. The story focuses on \"The Lady\" (Stone), a gunfighter who rides into the frontier town of Redemption, controlled by John Herod (Hackman). The Lady joins a deadly dueling competition in an attempt to exact revenge for her father's death.\n\nSimon Moore's script was purchased by Sony Pictures Entertainment in May 1993, and actress Sharon Stone signed on as both star and co-producer. Development was fast tracked after director Sam Raimi's hiring, and principal photography began in Old Tucson Studios in Arizona on November 21, 1993. The film was distributed by TriStar Pictures and was released in the US on February 10, 1995, to a dismal box office performance, receiving lukewarm reviews from critics.\n\nThis was Russell Crowe's American film debut and was Woody Strode's final performance (the film is dedicated to him), as well as the last theatrical release of Roberts Blossom who died in 2011. The phrase \"the quick and the dead\" is from the Second Epistle to Timothy (2 Timothy 4:1) in various Bible versions, including the King James Bible, describing the final judgment. The plot of this film bears no resemblance to that of the 1987 film of the same name, which was based on a western novel by Louis L'Amour.\n\nIn 1881, a female gunslinger known only as The Lady arrives in the Old West town of Redemption, where she enters a single elimination quick-draw contest held by Redemption's ruthless mayor and former outlaw, John Herod. She encounters the Blind Shoeshine Boy and a repulsive escaped convict named Scars, whose proposition she harshly rebuffs. At a sign-up meeting in the town saloon that night, the rules are explained: any contestant may challenge any other, no challenge can be refused, every contestant must fight once per day, and a fight continues until one contestant either yields or dies. While there she meets Cort, a former Herod henchman turned preacher whom Herod has captured and forced to enter the contest. The Lady saves Cort's life by shooting through the rope with which Herod's men try to hang him, then drunkenly spends the night with \"The Kid\", a brash young man who runs a gun store and hopes to impress Herod. Believing Herod to be his father, The Kid hopes to earn his respect by entering and winning the tournament.\n\nIn the first round of duels, The Kid defeats a Swedish quick-draw champion while Herod kills a braggart named Ace Hanlon, who had taken credit for some of Herod's own accomplishments. The Lady defeats Dog Kelly, an enemy she had previously left shackled to a wagon. Since Cort has no money, Herod buys him a cheap, rusty gun and declares that he can only have one bullet at a time so that he cannot shoot his way out of town. Even though Cort has renounced violence, he draws on his exceptional skill as a gunfighter and wins his first-round duel.\n\nBefore the second round begins, Herod meets with Clay Cantrell, a professional gunfighter hired by the townspeople to kill him. Before they duel, Herod changes the rules and proclaims that all contests are now to the death. After killing Cantrell, Herod angrily addresses the townspeople and informs them that he will continue to raise his taxes on them until they understand that he is in charge of everything. During a rainstorm that evening The Lady faces off with Eugene Dred after he rapes the saloon owner's young daughter. She shoots him in the genitals but spares his life and returns to the bar, but Dred ambushes her and she is ultimately forced to kill him. \n\nThe next day, Cort is slated to fight Spotted Horse, a Native American who claims he \"cannot be killed by a bullet\". The Lady, still upset over killing Dred the night before, saddles up and rides out of town before Cort's fight. Cort narrowly beats Spotted Horse after having to beg for a second bullet. The Lady is found at a nearby cemetery by Doc Wallace, who tells her that he recognizes her and knows why she is there. During flashbacks, it is revealed that the Lady's real name is Ellen, and her father used to be the Marshal in Redemption until Herod invaded, killed all the deputies and had him strung up. Herod gave Ellen a pistol and three shots to try and break the rope her father was hanging from, but she accidentally killed him. Doc Wallace tells her that Herod's men dug up her father's body, burned it, and smashed his tombstone. He hands Ellen her father's old badge and begs her to come back and help rid the town of Herod, as she and Cort are now Redemption's only hope. \n\nEllen rides back to town and directly challenges Herod but is sickened to hear that he has already accepted a fight against The Kid. Ellen and Cort are the only other fighters left and are ordered by Herod to face off, threatened with execution if neither of them draws on the other. The Kid turns down Herod's suggestion to withdraw from the contest; during their duel, Herod kills The Kid while suffering a wound to the neck. When Cort and Ellen face off, Cort begs her to kill him, then draws and fires on her. Doc Wallace declares Ellen dead; Cort angrily demands to fight Herod immediately, but settles for dawn of the next day. Ratsy, one of Herod's henchmen, beats Cort severely that night and breaks his right hand.\n\nThe next morning, Herod angrily dismisses Ratsy from his service upon seeing Cort's injury, then kills him with a rifle as he tries to flee. He offers to fight Cort left-handed, but tells his henchmen to kill Cort if he wins. At the moment Herod draws, several buildings explode, including Herod's house and the clock tower. Ellen emerges from the smoke and flames, having faked her death with the help of Cort, Doc Wallace, and a bottle of red ink procured from the Blind Boy and having used The Kid's stash of dynamite. Cort kills Herod's men, and Ellen faces off against Herod, revealing her identity by throwing her father's badge at his feet. Herod wounds Ellen, but she shoots him through the chest and finishes him off with a bullet to the eye. Tossing the badge to Cort, she says, \"The law's come back to town,\" then saddles up and rides away.\n\nWriter Simon Moore finished his spec script for \"The Quick and the Dead\" in late 1992, writing it as a homage to the Spaghetti Westerns of Sergio Leone, particularly the \"Dollars Trilogy\" starring Clint Eastwood. The writer decided the lead character should be a female. \"When you introduce women into that kind of world, something very interesting happens and you have an interesting dynamic straight away,\" Moore commented. The names of the lead villain (Herod) and the town (Redemption) were intentional allusions to the Bible. Moore considered directing his own script as an independent film and shooting \"The Quick and the Dead\" on a $3–4 million budget in either Spain or Italy.\n\nSony Pictures Entertainment purchased Moore's script in May 1993 and approached Sharon Stone to star in the lead role in July 1993. Because Stone also signed on as co-producer, she had approval over the choice of director. Sam Raimi was hired to direct because Stone was impressed with his work on \"Army of Darkness\" (1992). The actress told the producers that if Raimi did not direct the film, she would not star in it. Although she had mixed emotions on Raimi's previous work, she believed that the director still had yet to showcase his talents, feeling that \"The Quick and the Dead\" would be a perfect opportunity to \"stretch the limits of his technical and creative ability.\" Moore was also enthusiastic over Raimi's hiring, based on his previous work with the \"Evil Dead\" film series.\n\nWhen Sony began fast tracking development \"The Quick and the Dead,\" the studio commissioned a series of rewrites from Moore. The writer was eventually dismissed and replaced with John Sayles, who, according to Moore, took Sony's orders of \"making more of an American Old West film.\" Moore was rehired with filming to begin in three weeks because Sayles' script was approaching a 2.5 hour runtime. When rewriting the shooting script, Moore simply omitted Sayles' work without Sony noticing. A week before shooting, Sony considered the script good so that Moore described the rewrites \"a completely fucking pointless exercise.\"\n\nRussell Crowe originally auditioned for a different role in the film before Sharon Stone asked that the actor try for the lead male role. \"When I saw \"Romper Stomper\" (1992), I thought Russell was not only charismatic, attractive and talented but also fearless,\" Stone reasoned. \"And I find fearlessness very attractive. I was convinced I wouldn't scare him.\" Raimi found Crowe to be \"bold and challenging. He reminds me of what we imagine the American cowboy to have been like.\" On working with Raimi, Crowe later described the director as \"sort of like the fourth Stooge.\"\nSony Pictures was dubious over Stone's choice of Crowe because he was not a famous actor in the mid-1990s. To cast Gene Hackman in the role of Herod, TriStar Pictures changed the shooting location from Durango, Mexico to Tucson, Arizona. Sam Rockwell auditioned for The Kid, a role which ended up going to Leonardo DiCaprio. Sony was also dubious over DiCaprio's casting. As a result, Stone decided to pay for the actor's salary herself.\n\nFilming was originally set to begin in October 1993, but was delayed because Crowe was busy on another film in Australia. Principal photography for \"The Quick and the Dead\" lasted from November 21, 1993 to February 27, 1994. Locations included Old Tucson Studios in Arizona and Mescal, 40 miles southeast of Tucson. Production was briefly halted at times over weather problems. Thell Reed, who was hired as the gun coach and weapons master, worked with the cast through over three months of training. To age Cort's Colt 1851 Navy Revolver and the other guns used, Reed experimented with simple measures. \"I took them out by my swimming pool and dipped them in chlorine water to let them rust,\" he explained. \"They looked rusty and old, but were brand new guns.\" Such detail, including the nickel plating and ivory handles on Ellen's Colt Peacemakers, was accurate to the time period.\n\nThe town of Redemption was designed by Patrizia von Brandenstein, known for her work on \"Amadeus\" (1984) and \"The Untouchables\" (1987). Raimi's first choice as the visual effects supervisor was William Mesa, his collaborator on \"Darkman\" (1991) and \"Army of Darkness\" (1993). Instead, Sony chose The Computer Film Company to create the VFX sequences. Pick-up scenes took place through November - December 1994. This included an extended duel between Sharon Stone and Gene Hackman.\n\nStone had a love scene removed from the final cut of \"The Quick and the Dead\" before the film's release in the United States. The actress/co-producer thought the scene did not fit in with the picture's established reality. It was restored for the home cinema releases of the film.\n\nThe original motion picture soundtrack for \"The Quick and the Dead\", was released by the Varèse Sarabande music label on February 14, 1995. The score for the film was composed and conducted by Alan Silvestri and mixed by Dennis Sands. Kenneth Karman and Thomas Drescher edited the film's music.\n\n\"The Quick and the Dead\" was released in the U.S. on February 10, 1995 in 2,158 theaters, earning $6,515,861 in its opening weekend. The film eventually grossed $18,636,537 in at the US box office and was declared to be a box office bomb. Writer Simon Moore noted that the film performed modestly in Europe.\n\n\"The Quick and the Dead\"' faced competition at the box office from \"Billy Madison\", \"The Brady Bunch Movie\", \"Just Cause\" and \"Heavyweights\". Director Sam Raimi later blamed himself and his visual style for the film's failure. \"I was very confused after I made that movie. For a number of years I thought, I'm like a dinosaur. I couldn't change with the material.\" TriStar Pictures also showed \"The Quick and the Dead\" as an \"out-of-competition\" film at the May 1995 Cannes Film Festival. Additionally, Stone was nominated for the Saturn Award for Best Actress, but lost to Angela Bassett in \"Strange Days\". A novelization written by Jack Curtis was published by HarperCollins in September 1995. The Region 1 DVD release came in September 1998.\n\n\"The Quick and the Dead\" received mixed reviews from film critics. Based on 41 reviews, Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a score of 56%, with an average rating of 5.9/10. Metacritic calculated an average score of 49/100, based on 21 reviews.\n\nJanet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" praised Stone's performance and Raimi's directing. \"Stone's presence nicely underscores the genre-bending tactics of Raimi, the cult filmmaker now doing his best to reinvent the B movie in a spirit of self-referential glee.\" Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" criticized the film for being overtly cliché, but praised Raimi's direction and Dante Spinotti's cinematography. Critic and Raimi biographer Bill Warren wrote that the film \"is a very conscious (though not self-conscious) attempt to recreate some of the themes, style and appeal of Sergio Leone's majestically operatic Spaghetti Westerns of the 1960s, especially the Man with No Name trilogy that starred Clint Eastwood. It's brisker, more romantic and somehow more American than Leone's movies.\"\n\nJonathan Rosenbaum of the \"Chicago Reader\" observed that \"Raimi tries to do a Sergio Leone, and though \"The Quick and the Dead\" is highly enjoyable in spots, it doesn't come across as very convincing, perhaps because nothing can turn Sharon Stone into Charles Bronson.\" Peter Travers of Rolling Stone felt that \"\"The Quick and the Dead\" plays like a crazed compilation of highlights from famous westerns. Raimi finds the right look but misses the heartbeat. You leave the film dazed instead of dazzled, as if an expert marksman had drawn his gun only to shoot himself in the foot.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "266899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266899", "title": "Third eye", "text": "Third eye\n\nThe third eye (also called the mind's eye, or inner eye) is a mystical and esoteric concept of a speculative invisible eye which provides perception beyond ordinary sight.\n\nIn certain dharmic spiritual traditions the third eye refers to the ajna (or brow) chakra. The third eye refers to the gate that leads to inner realms and spaces of higher consciousness. In New Age spirituality, the third eye often symbolizes a state of enlightenment or the evocation of mental images having deeply personal spiritual or psychological significance. The third eye is often associated with religious visions, clairvoyance, the ability to observe chakras and auras, precognition, and out-of-body experiences. People who are claimed to have the capacity to utilize their third eyes are sometimes known as \"seers\". In Hinduism, the third eye is said to be located around the middle of the forehead, slightly above the junction of the eyebrows. \n\nIn Taoism and many traditional Chinese religious sects such as Chan (called Zen in Japanese), \"third eye training\" involves focusing attention on the point between the eyebrows with the eyes closed, and while the body is in various qigong postures. The goal of this training is to allow students to tune into the correct \"vibration\" of the universe and gain a solid foundation on which to reach more advanced meditation levels. Taoism teaches that the third eye, also called the mind's eye, is situated between the two physical eyes, and expands up to the middle of the forehead when opened. Taoism claims that the third eye is one of the main energy centers of the body located at the sixth Chakra, forming a part of the main meridian, the line separating left and right hemispheres of the body. In Taoist alchemical traditions, the third eye is the frontal part of the \"Upper Dan Tien\" (upper cinnabar field) and is given the evocative name \"muddy pellet\".\n\nAccording to the Christian teaching of Father Richard Rohr, the concept of the third eye is a metaphor for non-dualistic thinking; the way the mystics see. In Rohr's concept, mystics employ the first eye (sensory input such as sight) and the second eye (the eye of reason, meditation, and reflection), \"but they know not to confuse knowledge with depth, or mere correct information with the transformation of consciousness itself. The mystical gaze builds upon the first two eyes—and yet goes further.\" Rohr refers to this level of awareness as \"having the mind of Christ\".\n\nAdherents of theosophist H.P. Blavatsky have suggested that the third eye is in fact the partially dormant pineal gland, which resides between the two hemispheres of the brain. Reptiles and amphibians sense light via a third parietal eye—a structure associated with the pineal gland—which serves to regulate their circadian rhythms, and for navigation, as it can sense the polarization of light. C.W. Leadbeater claimed that by extending an \"etheric tube\" from the third eye, it is possible to develop microscopic and telescopic vision. It has been asserted by Stephen Phillips that the third eye's microscopic vision is capable of observing objects as small as quarks. According to this belief, humans had in far ancient times an actual third eye in the back of the head with a physical and spiritual function. Over time, as humans evolved, this eye atrophied and sunk into what today is known as the pineal gland. Dr. Rick Strassman has hypothesized that the pineal gland, which maintains light sensitivity, is responsible for the production and release of DMT (dimethyltryptamine), an entheogen which he believes possibly could be excreted in large quantities at the moments of birth and death.\n\nThe use of the phrase \"mind's eye\" does not imply that there is a single or unitary place in the mind or brain where visual consciousness occurs. Philosophers such as Daniel Dennett have critiqued this view. However, others, such as Johnjoe McFadden of the University of Surrey in the United Kingdom and the New Zealand-based neurobiologist Susan Pockett, propose that the brain's electromagnetic field is consciousness itself, thus causing the perception of a unitary location.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25648676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25648676", "title": "Tom Adamson", "text": "Tom Adamson\n\nThomas Kay Adamson was a Scottish professional football left back and manager, best remembered for his time in the Football League with Bury and Brentford. He later had a short tenure as manager of Irish League side Ards.\n\nA left back, Adamson began his career at Scottish junior clubs Blantyre Celtic and Bellshill Athletic.\n\nAdamson moved to England to join Division Two side Bury in 1921. Over the course of seven years at Gigg Lane, Adamson made 271 appearances and helped the Shakers to promotion back to Division One in the 1923–24 season.\n\nAdamson dropped down to the Division Three South to sign for Brentford prior to the beginning of the 1929–30 season. He immediately broke into the team and made 36 appearances during his debut season, a campaign memorable for the Bees record-breaking 21 home wins. Adamson was a mainstay of the side for the following two seasons and made 28 appearances to help the Bees into Division Two for the first time in the club's history in the 1932–33 season, winning the Division Three South title. Age caught up to Adamson and he made just eight appearances during the 1933–34 season and departed Griffin Park at the end of the campaign. Adamson made 153 appearances in four years with the Bees.\n\nAdamson returned to the Manchester area to sign for Division Three North side Stockport County in 1934. He failed to make an appearance for the club and ended his career having failed to score in over 400 professional matches.\n\nAdamson had a short spell as manager of Irish League side Ards in 1935. Former Brentford full back partner Alexander Stevenson was one of his signings.\n\nWhile growing up, Adamson went to school with future Scottish internationals Hughie Gallacher and Alex James.\n\nBrentford\n"}
{"id": "5569849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5569849", "title": "V0-morph", "text": "V0-morph\n\nAn V0-morph is an organism that changes in shape during growth such that its surface area is proportional to its volume to the power 0, so its surface area is constant.\n\nThe reason why the concept is important in the context of the Dynamic Energy Budget theory is that food (substrate) uptake is proportional to surface area, and maintenance to volume. The surface area that is of importance is that part that is involved in substrate uptake.\n\nBiofilms on a flat solid substrate are examples of V0-morphs; they grow in thickness, but not in surface area that is involved in nutrient exchange. Other examples are dinophyta and diatoms that have a cell wall that does not change during the cell cycle. During cell-growth, when the amounts of protein and carbohydrates increase, the vacuole shrinks. The outer membrane that is involved in nutrient uptake remains constant. At cell division, the daughter cells rapidly take up water, complete a new cell wall and the cycle repeats.\n\nRods (bacteria that have the shape of a rod and grow in length, but not in diameter) are a static mixture between a V0- and a V1-morph, where the caps act as V0-morphs and the cylinder between the caps as V1-morph.The mixture is called static because the weight coefficients of the contributions of the V0- and V1-morph terms in the shape correction function are constant during growth.\n\nCrusts, such as lichens that grow on a solid substrate, are a dynamic mixture between a V0- and a V1-morph, where the inner part acts as V0-morph, and the outer annulus as V1-morph.The mixture is called dynamic because the weight coefficients of the contributions of the V0- and V1-morph terms in the shape correction function change during growth.The Dynamic Energy Budget theory explains why the diameter of crusts grow linearly in time at constant substrate availability.\n\n"}
