{"id": "29652649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29652649", "title": "1932 Changma earthquake", "text": "1932 Changma earthquake\n\nThe 1932 Changma earthquake occurred at 10:04:27 local time (02:04:07 UTC) on 25 December. With an estimated magnitude of 7.6 on the surface wave magnitude scale, and a maximum felt intensity of X (\"Extreme\") on the Mercalli intensity scale, the quake destroyed 1,167 houses, and 275 people were killed with a further 320 injured.\n\nThe earthquake was located close to the northern margin of the Tibetan Plateau. This area of thickened crust is a result of the ongoing collision of the Indo-Australian Plate with the Eurasian Plate. The way in which this zone accommodates the collision remains unclear with two end-member models being proposed. The first regards the crust as being made up of a mosaic of strong blocks separated by weak fault zones, the microplate model. The second regards the deformation as being continuous within the mid to lower crust, the continuum model. The change in width of the deformed zone along the collisional belt, with the narrow zone of western Tibet compared to the main part of the Tibetan Plateau, is explained as either lateral escape to the east along the Altyn Tagh and Karakorum faults in the microplate model or as the effect of the rigid Tarim Basin block causing heterogeneous deformation within a generally weaker lithosphere in the continuum model. At its northern end, the Altyn Tagh fault progressively loses displacement by its interaction with a series of WNW–ESE trending structures, mostly with components of reverse displacement and sinistral (left lateral) strike-slip. The Changma fault is one of those structures.\n\nThe region stricken by this earthquake included the entire Changma Basin and the western part of the Hexi Corridor in Gansu province. The greatest damage occurred in Changma. In Gaotai, Jinta, Anxi and Dingxin part of the city walls and some buildings collapsed and many houses were damaged. In the town of Changma all 800 families were affected, 270 people died and at least another 300 were injured; deaths were also recorded in Gaotai (3) and Jinta (2).\n\nA surface rupture of about 116 km was identified after the earthquake, including five separate fault segments, the largest rupture observed for a reverse-slip event in Asia in the twentieth century. Four of the segments that ruptured were reverse faults, the fifth was a strike-slip fault. Vertical offsets of more than a metre were observed on most of the segments, with a maximum of 5 m.\n\nThe 1932 Changma earthquake shows that apparently separate mapped intracontinental reverse faults may rupture simultaneously in an earthquake. Estimates of the seismic hazard in an area based on the rupture of single reverse faults may lead to a major underestimate of the magnitudes of the largest possible earthquake.\n\n"}
{"id": "48557579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48557579", "title": "1998 Guatemala student rapes", "text": "1998 Guatemala student rapes\n\nOn January 16, 1998 five American students were raped while on a school sponsored trip to Guatemala. The case led to attention from the highest levels of the American and Guatemalan governments, including then-US president Bill Clinton, and led to concerns about whether the safety of students was adequately protected while traveling abroad. The students were studying at St. Mary's College of Maryland.\n\nThe college at the time conducted annual tours for students to Guatemala. The 17-day tours were conducted during the winter recess and were offered for college credit. The school was conducting its third such tour and noted that there had been no problems on either of the previous tours. However, violence against women had been rising in the area. In July 1997, a public bus was hijacked with everyone being robbed and five women, including two American citizens, being raped. Four other American women were raped in Guatemala in other incidents in July and August 1997.\n\nA group of 13 students—12 women and 1 man—along with 2 faculty members and 1 administrator from St. Mary's College were returning to Guatemala City after an excursion on an educational tour of Guatemala. At about 3:30pm on January 16, 1998, their bus was forced off the road by at least four gunmen. Gunshots were fired to force the driver to pull into a ditch alongside the road. The bus was forced into a nearby sugar cane field where it wasn't visible from the road. All of the group were robbed, but the gunmen were disappointed that they weren't carrying more cash. Five women were then selected to be raped. One was raped on the bus in front of classmates and the other four were raped in the field. The passengers on the bus were required to lie face down as each of the five women, one at a time, were raped multiple times. The women who were raped were aged 19 and 20. The rape victims returned to the United States on January 17, 1998 with the rest of the group following the next day.\n\nTwo of the rape victims returned to Guatemala in January 1999 to testify against their attackers. The men accused were Cosby Urias, a 37-year-old laborer; Rony Polanco, a 25-year-old driver; and Reyes Guch Ventura, a 25-year-old peddler. All three men were convicted and sentenced to 28 years in prison: 18 years for rape and 10 years for robbery.\n\nThree of the students sued the college, alleging that the college failed to take reasonable steps to protect them. Included as additional defendants were the board of trustees, the college president Jane Margaret O'Brien, and the two professors and administrator who accompanied the group. One victim sued for $5 million; another for $500,000; and third for $250,000. The lawsuit was eventually settled with one student receiving $100,000 (the maximum amount allowed by law); another $65,000; and the third $30,000. O'Brien claimed that the college was not responsible but was willing to settle the lawsuit to avoid the pain to all of going to trial.\n"}
{"id": "21056341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21056341", "title": "1999 Sabarimala stampede", "text": "1999 Sabarimala stampede\n\nSabarimala stampede is a human stampede that occurred at Sabarimala temple in the Indian state of Kerala in 1999. On 14 January 1999, (the Makara Jyothi Day), 53 people, the majority of them from outside Kerala, died in the stampede at the Pamba base camp caused by, among other things, the collapse of the sides of a hillock.\n\nA Judicial commission headed by Justice Chandrasekhara Menon, was constituted to investigate the tragedy. Justice Chandrasekhara Menon, in his report found the State Government guilty of \"negligence in ensuring the safety of the pilgrims coming from different parts of the country\". The report pointed out the need to provide basic amenities on the Pullumedu route through which a large number of pilgrims from Tamil Nadu travel. Since over 60% of devotees coming to Sabarimala during the pilgrimage season are from other states and this route provides them easy access to temple towns like Madurai on their return journey, the report said. Most of the proposals of the committee were not enacted and led to huge public outcry after 2011 Sabarimala stampede.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40454564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40454564", "title": "2002 WAFU Nations Cup", "text": "2002 WAFU Nations Cup\n\nThe 2002 WAFU Nations Cup was supposed to be the first edition of the tournament, but was eventually canceled.\n\nThe tournament featured players from local leagues only. The qualifying phase was competed during April 7–July 7, 2001. The final phase was originally scheduled for Dakar, Senegal, Sep 28–Oct 7, 2001. It was first postponed to October after CAF had refused to give approval claiming it was too close to the 2002 African Nations Cup (set to kick off on January 19, 2002). After WAFU argued that their tournament was for home-based players only, approval was obtained, and the tournament then moved to Abidjan, to be held in October 2001. It was then postponed again because the main sponsors, TV Africa, pulled out.\n\nThe tournament was finally arranged for Sep 18–29, 2002, to be held in Ivory Coast (in Abidjan and Bouaké; the latter venue being added at the last moment). Unfortunately, one day into the match, on September 19, the First Ivorian Civil War broke out, leading to an indefinite postponement of the tournament with the teams stranded in the country. The teams lodged in Bouaké were trapped there for over a week before being able to leave. And the tournament was eventually canceled.\n\nAfter 8 years, the first successful WAFU Nations Cup was played in 2010.\n\nEight teams participated in the final tournament. The groups are\n\nOnly two matches were played on September 18, 2002: Senegal 1–0 Sierra Leone, Ivory Coast 5–0 Gambia. All other matches were canceled due to the civil war.\n\n"}
{"id": "45065694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45065694", "title": "2014 World Hot Air Balloon Championships", "text": "2014 World Hot Air Balloon Championships\n\n2014 World Hot Air Balloon Championships was 21st edition of World Hot Air Ballooning Championships held in Rio Claro, São Paulo, Brazil from July 17 to July 27, 2014. It was a first time when championships were held in South America. Total of 23 tasks were held.\n\n"}
{"id": "18744106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18744106", "title": "Al-Houriya", "text": "Al-Houriya\n\nAl-Houriya (, meaning \"Freedom\") is a weekly Arabic language newspaper in Mauritania. The director of the newspaper is Mohamed Nema Oumar.\n\nOn 12 June 2008, Mohamed Nema Oumar, managing editor of \"Al-Houriya\", was arrested by the Mauritanian police after he published an article on Senator El Had and his activities in Israel.<ref name=\"africagm 2008/7/27\">Mauritania ALERT: Second Al Houriya newspaper journalist detained in a month, \"Africa.gm\", 27 July 2008</ref> Oumar was arrested at the airport on his way back from Libya where he accompanied the Mauritanian President with an accredited press badge. Mohamed Nema Oumar was detained for 30 hours, and charged two days later with libel and insults. His passport was retained for 2 months. He is jailed again starting 21 July.\n\nIn July 2008, Mohammed Ould Abdel Latif, editor of \"Al-Houriya\", was also arrested and detained by the Mauritanian police the day he published an article about corruption and briberies collected by high court judges. His article stipulated that these judges had received 68,650 euros to release a businessman and a policeman accused of drug trafficking.\n\nOn 6 August 2008, the International Federation of Journalists (IFJ) called for the release of the two journalists.\n\n"}
{"id": "45570689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45570689", "title": "Aligarh (film)", "text": "Aligarh (film)\n\nAligarh is a 2016 Indian biographical drama film directed by Hansal Mehta and written by Apurva Asrani. It stars Manoj Bajpayee and Rajkummar Rao in the lead roles.\n\nThe film had its world premiere at the 20th Busan International Film Festival, receiving a standing ovation. The film was released worldwide on 26 February 2016 to critical acclaim. Bajpayee won critical acclaim and a Filmfare Critics Award for Best Actor for his portrayal of Ramchandra Siras.\n\nSet in the city of Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh, it is the true story of Ramchandra Siras, a professor of Marathi and the head of the Classical Modern Indian Languages Faculty at the famed Aligarh Muslim University, who was suspended on grounds of morality. He was also sacked from his position of Reader and Chair of Modern Indian Languages.The film starts at the moment when the professor’s privacy is invaded by a film crew from a local TV station who forcibly enter his house and film him having sex with a rickshaw-puller. Siras is forced to leave his housing at the university, and is suspended from his job. He is contacted by a journalist who is sympathetic to him, and his case is taken up in court. The court rules in his favour and Siras' suspension is revoked, but before he can return to work,\nhe is found dead.\n\n\nThe film was shot in various parts of Uttar Pradesh including Aligarh, Gorakhpur, Agra, Bareilly and Greater Noida (C-Block; Sector - Gamma 1). Wherein Greater Noida a small indoor sequence was shot for 3–4 days by Rajkumar Rao.\n\n\"Aligarh\" had its European première at the 59th BFI London Film Festival on 10 October 2015. The response was generally superlative and the film garnered excellent reviews. \"Screen International\" in its review called it a \"A subtle, sensitive take on a controversial real-life court case involving the victimization of a gay college professor, Aligarh underscores the growing strength and diversity of Indian independent cinema\".\n\nThe British Film Institute, in its 'Whats On' review of \"Aligarh\" called it \"Probably the best film yet on the Indian gay male experience, Hansal Mehta directs a riveting and nuanced tale that is as touching as it is powerful.\" \"Aligarh\" had its India première in Mumbai at the 17th Jio MAMI Mumbai Film Festival on 30 October 2015. It also has the honour of being the only Indian film to open the festival since its inception. The response was once again overwhelming. Meenakshi Shedde, South Asia Consultant to the Berlin Film Festival and award-winning critic, had this to say about in her \"Mid-Day\" review: \"\"Aligarh\" is masterfully directed: it is that rare film that courageously stands for human rights, including those of homosexuals, yet offers a quiet, distilled perspective.\" Columnist Aseem Chhabra in his rediff.com review said \"Aligarh is a very important film, a milestone in the history of Indian cinema that should start the much needed conversation about how India treats a visible and yet often ignored minority group.\"\n\nGay rights activist and editor of \"Bombay Dost\" magazine, Ashok Row Kavi, in his Firstpost.com review called \"Aligarh\" \"a masterpiece of cinematic skills\" and went on to say \"What Mehta and writer Apurva Asrani have done is pluck out a commonplace professor in a commonplace university and weave a true life story into a tapestry of terrifying, compelling drama.\" \"Indian Express\" gave 3.5 rating out of 5.\n\n"}
{"id": "18361550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18361550", "title": "Baron Hirsch Cemetery", "text": "Baron Hirsch Cemetery\n\nBaron Hirsch Cemetery is a large Jewish cemetery in the neighborhood of Graniteville, on Staten Island, in New York City, and named for Baron Maurice de Hirsch.\n\nBaron Hirsch was established in 1899.\n\nIn January, 1960, the cemetery drew national attention when 87 headstones were smeared with yellow paint and the words “Fuhrer,” and the German words for death and fatherland. That incident and others led President Dwight D. Eisenhower to declare that freedom and decency could be destroyed everywhere if Americans ignored the \"virus of bigotry\" or permitted it \"to spread one inch.\"\n\nNevertheless, continued vandalism, as well as apathy and neglect remained problems at Baron Hirsch for decades, resulting in numerous overturned grave markers.\n\nA major cleanup of the grounds was started in March 2011 with the help of the Community Alliance for Jewish-affiliated Cemeteries, and a fence was built to enclose the cemetery. The 121st precinct house of the New York Police Department, which adjacent to the cemetery and overlooks it, opened in 2013, and may have helped curb vandalism as well.\n\nThe cemetery is composed of about 500 plots or sections belonging to synagogues, Jewish associations, family circles, and most commonly, landsmanshaftn. Most plots are entered via gates or pairs of stone columns. Some of the landsmanshaftn plots have monuments dedicated to Holocaust victims of the Nazis in their ancestral town.\n\n"}
{"id": "12591696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12591696", "title": "Battle of the Great Foss", "text": "Battle of the Great Foss\n\nThe Battle of the Great Foss occurred in 682 BC during the Second Messenian War (685–668 BC). The word \"foss\" derives from the Latin fossa, meaning \"ditch\" or \"trench.\" According to ancient historian \"Pausanias\" the outcome of the battle was determined by trickery. The Spartans bribed Aristocrates, the king of the Arcadians, to withdraw his men just as the battle was beginning. This resulted in the slaughter of the Messenians.\n\n"}
{"id": "15714636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15714636", "title": "Born Too Late Festival", "text": "Born Too Late Festival\n\nBorn Too Late was the first all doom metal festival to be held in the USA. It was held in Rochester, New York on April 26, 2003 at The Steel Music Hall. Born Too Late was originally a website dedicated to doom metal music created back in late 1997 by John Gallo of Orodruin, Crucifist, Blizaro.\n\nA repeat festival was planned for August 1, 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28391344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28391344", "title": "Building block model", "text": "Building block model\n\nThe building block model is a form of public utility regulation that is common in Australia. Variants of the building block model are currently used in Australia in the regulation of electricity transmission and distribution, gas transmission and distribution, railways, postal services, urban water and sewerage services, irrigation infrastructure, and port access. The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission has stated that it intends to use a version of the building block model to determine indicative access prices for fixed-line telecommunications services. The building block model is so-called because the allowed revenue of the regulated firm is equal to the sum of underlying components or building blocks consisting of the return on capital, the return of capital (also known as depreciation), the operating expenditure, and various other components such as taxes and incentive mechanisms.\n\nAlthough the principles behind the building block approach are very similar to the principles in many other regulatory regimes around the world (especially the UK), the first use of the term in Australia was in 1998 by the Office of the Regulator General (ORG) in Victoria (the predecessor of the Essential Services Commission of Victoria). The ORG issued a consultation paper on the framework for setting price controls under the 1995 Victorian Electricity Supply Tariff Order, to apply to electricity distribution networks in Victoria from the beginning of 2001. The Tariff Order required the ORG to \"utilise price based regulation adopting a CPI-X approach and not rate of return regulation\". In a subsequent application for judicial review in the Supreme Court of Victoria, the regulator described the 'building block approach' that it had used to drive the X factor as follows:\n\nThe court accepted that this 'building block approach' was not rate-of-return regulation:\n\nThe Australian Competition and Consumer Commission adopted a building block approach in its 1999 draft guideline on how it would set electricity transmission revenue caps under the 1998 National Electricity Code. The approach was subsequently adopted in other sectors regulated by the ACCC and by other state regulators around Australia. Following the replacement of the National Electricity Code with the National Electricity Rules in 2005, the building block approach was confirmed (with various modifications) in a 2006 review carried out by the Australian Energy Market Commission. The National Electricity Rules were amended in 2006 to provide that the annual revenue requirement for a regulated electricity transmission network must be determined using a 'building block approach' under which the 'building blocks are:\n\nA similar provision has applied to regulated electricity distributors from 1 January 2008. In 2010, the ACCC issued a draft report proposing to adopt a form of the building block model in the regulation of fixed-line telecommunications services.\n\nThe 1998 National Electricity Code did not allow the ACCC to roll forward automatically the value of the regulatory asset base from one regulatory period to the next (in contrast to the 1997 National Third Party Access Code for Natural Gas Pipeline Systems). however, under both the current National Electricity Rules and National Gas Rules, the regulatory asset base is locked-in using the asset base roll forward equation below. The telecommunications regime has also been amended from 1 January 2011 to allow the ACCC to make access determinations that include 'fixed principles'. The amendment will allow the ACCC to lock-in the value of the asset base across regulatory periods.\n\nThe building block model is a tool for spreading or amortizing the expenditure of a regulated firm over time. The building block model, when applied correctly and consistently over time, ensures that the firm earns a revenue stream with a present value equal to the present value of its expenditure stream. Put another way, the building block model ensures that over the life of the firm, the cash-flow stream of the firm has a net present value equal to zero.\n\nThe building block model makes use of the concept of the regulatory asset base. The regulatory asset base – which is related to the capital stock of the regulated firm – represents the amount that the firm has, in effect, borrowed from its investors in the past (that is, the amount to which its past expenditure has exceeded its past revenue) and is therefore the amount that must be paid back to investors (with interest) over the remaining life of the firm.\n\nIn its simplest form, the building block model can be expressed as two equations, the \"revenue equation\" and the \"asset base roll forward\" equation.\n\nThe revenue equation is an expression which relates the allowed revenue of the regulated firm to the sum of the return on capital (the appropriate cost of capital multiplied by the regulatory asset base) plus the return of capital (also known as the depreciation) plus the operating expenditure (in addition, in many applications of the building block model there are other terms, such as compensation for tax liabilities):\n\nHere: formula_2 is the target allowed revenue of the regulated firm in the current regulatory period, formula_3 is the appropriate cost of capital (also known as the discount rate) for the cash-flow stream of the firm during the current regulatory period, formula_4 is the closing regulatory asset base at the end of the previous period (the product of the cost of capital times the asset base is also known as the \"return on capital\"), formula_5 is the regulatory depreciation in the current period, and formula_6 is the expected or forecast operating expenditure of the firm in the current regulatory period.\n\nThe revenue equation is embodied, for example, in the \"Post Tax Revenue Model\" spreadsheet used by the Australian Energy Regulator.\n\nThe asset base roll forward equation is an expression which relates the closing regulatory asset base at the end of the period to the opening asset base at the start of the period plus any new capital expenditure that occurs during the regulatory period less any depreciation during the regulatory period.\n\nHere: formula_8 is the closing asset base at the end of the current period, formula_4 is the closing asset base at the end of the previous period, formula_10 is the capital expenditure of the firm in the current period, and formula_5 is the regulatory depreciation during the current period.\n\nThe asset base roll forward equation is embodied, for example, in the \"Roll Forward Model\" spreadsheet used by the Australian Energy Regulator.\n\nThe primary reason for using the building block model can be stated as follows: Provided (a) the regulator chooses a path of the regulatory asset base which starts at zero before the firm incurs any expenditure and ends at zero after the end of the life of the firm (or, equivalently, provided the sum of the allowed depreciation each period adds up to the total capital expenditure of the firm) and (b) provided the regulator chooses a value for the WACC which reflects the firm's true cost of capital then the resulting path of allowed revenue given by the equations above has the property that the net present value of the cash-flow of the firm (that is, the revenue less the expenditure) is precisely zero.\n\n\nThe building block model can be implemented in such a way that the regulated firm receives a revenue stream just equal in value to the firm's out-turn expenditure. However, this is usually considered undesirable since it would result in the firm having no incentive to improve its overall efficiency or to increase the volume or quality of the services it provides. To overcome this problem the building block model is usually implemented in a way that allows the firm financial rewards for pursuing desirable objectives – such as reducing its expenditure, or maintaining or improving service quality, and sometimes for selecting efficient capital investments, or promoting innovation.\n\nIt is common in regulatory frameworks that make use of the building block model, to incorporate additional factors which reward the regulated firm for maintaining or improving service quality. Examples include the Essential Service Commission's S-factor scheme or the ACCC's Service Target Performance Incentive Scheme.\n\nHistorically much interest has focussed on the incentives on the regulated firm to enhance efficiency – that is, incentives to reduce its expenditure while maintaining a given quantity and quality of output. In principle, the building block model can be designed so as to yield either very low-powered incentives to minimise expenditure (which is sometimes known as cost-of-service or rate-of-return regulation) or very high-powered incentives. The building block model can be implemented in such a way as to yield very high-powered incentives to reduce expenditure by (a) setting the operating and capital expenditure inputs in the building block model on the basis of forecasts which are independent of the regulated firm's own actions, and (b) not \"clawing back\" any over-spend or under-spend at the end of the regulatory period. However, very high-powered incentives create their own problems – they create strong incentives on the firm to cut expenditure or defer capital expenditure – even at the expense of reducing service quality. In addition, high powered incentives expose the regulated firm to higher levels of risk and give rise to strong incentives to lobby the regulator for a higher target level of revenue. Economic theory does not support the use of very high-powered incentives and, in practice, almost all practical regulatory regimes tend to involve medium-powered incentives.\n\nAlthough details vary across regimes, the most common approach to creating incentives to reduce expenditure is to use a regulatory period consisting of many years. The allowed revenue is set once at the beginning of the regulatory period and there is no clawback of over-spend or under-spend at the end of the regulatory period – thereby allowing the regulated firm to keep some or all of the cost savings it makes during the regulatory period. The operating expenditure input to the building block model is usually based closely on the observed operating expenditure at the end of the previous regulatory period. This approach ensures reasonably strong incentives to reduce operating expenditure in the early years of a regulatory period but can, in principle, lead to weak incentives to reduce operating expenditure in the later years of a regulatory period. One way to solve this problem is to base the operating expenditure not just on a single \"test year\" of the previous regulatory period but on the average of the previous years. In practice this problem is, instead, often addressed with some form of \"efficiency carry-over\" or \"efficiency benefit sharing\" scheme.\n\nWhen it comes to incentives to reduce capital expenditure, concerns arise relating to the strength of the incentives and the possibility for inefficient substitution between opex and capex. Stronger incentives to reduce capex tend to create strong incentives to defer needed network upgrades with possible consequences for long-term service quality. Ofgem in the UK has experimented with improving measures of asset quality and combining capex and opex into a single \"totex\" expenditure measure. One common approach to handling capital expenditure is simply to allow the regulated firm to keep the depreciation allowance on any higher forecast capital expenditure and simply to \"roll in\" the out-turn capital expenditure into the regulatory asset base at the end of the regulatory period. Many regulatory frameworks also give the regulator a role in assessing and approving new capital expenditure in what is known as a \"prudency\" or \"used and useful\" test.\n\nIn practice, the building block model is often modified in various ways – particularly to create desired incentives on the regulated firm. These variations include adapting the model to a five-year regulatory period and the introduction of various explicit incentive mechanisms.\n\nMost regulated firms continue to face some risk or uncertainty in their financial outcomes, due to uncertainty in the demand they face or in their expenditure. Some of this exposure to risk is deliberately created by the regulatory regime in order to ensure the regulated firm faces desirable incentives (such as incentives to minimise its expenditure).\n\nMost of the time this risk is handled through relatively minor changes to the building block model. Specifically, in the simplest case the regulator must ensure that the revenue the firm receives is on average equal to the return on capital (calculated using an appropriate risk-adjusted cost of capital) plus the return of capital plus the average or \"expected\" operating expenditure. The regulator can achieve this outcome either by ensuring that the regulated firm is compensated for uncertain events \"ex post\" or by ensuring the regulated firm receives sufficient compensation \"ex ante\". As an example of the former, many regulators allow the regulated firm to \"pass through\" cost events which are largely or entirely outside their control (such as changes in other regulated charges, or changes in some labour rates).\n\nOn occasion, it is not feasible to rely on ex post compensation for a risk faced by the regulated firm. This might arise, for example, where the regulated firm faces a risk that demand will drop (or will fail to materialise) in the future, limiting future earnings. Where this risk is material the regulator has no choice but to ensure the regulated firm is adequately compensated on average ex ante.\n\nAs a general rule, where the regulatory framework ensures that the regulated firm is adequately compensated on average it must be the case that if there is some positive probability that the out-turn return of the firm is below the allowed cost of capital there must be a positive probability that the out-turn return of the firm is above the allowed cost of capital so that, on average, the firm expects to receive the allowed cost of capital.\n\nIn some circumstances, especially where the future demand for the services of the regulated firm is uncertain, there is a risk that the regulator will choose a path for depreciation which results in an allowed revenue in a given year which cannot be achieved by the regulated firm (perhaps because demand in that year is lower than expected). If the out-turn revenue of the regulated firm falls short of the allowed revenue in a given year and this is not recognised in the regulatory framework, there is a risk that the regulated firm will not be allowed to earn a cash-flow stream with an NPV of zero overall (in other words, the investors in the firm will be left under-compensated). To overcome this possibility it may make sense to allow the regulated firm to \"capitalise\" any short-fall in out-turn revenue relative to allowed revenue in a given year by simply adding the shortfall into the regulatory asset base. This approach is equivalent to allowing the firm to defer some of its depreciation in years in which demand is lower than expected. This approach, which has been termed the \"loss capitalisation model\" has been considered by the ACCC in the context of the regulation of access to rail track infrastructure in Australia.\n\nThe building block model is a tool for amortizing the expenditure of a regulated firm in such a way that the expected net present value of the cash-flow of the firm is zero. For this to be achieved, the regulator must choose the cost of capital to reflect the correct cost of capital or discount rate for the associated cash-flow stream of the firm. This is usually carried out by estimating a weighted average cost of capital for the cash-flow stream of the firm as a whole. Under the standard regulatory approach in Australia where the tax liabilities of the firm are handled as an additional element in the firm's revenue equation, the appropriate weighted average formula is the simple \"plain vanilla\" formula, consisting of a weighted average of the cost of capital for the firm's equity and the cost of capital for the firm's debt. The cost of capital for the firm's debt is usually estimated by observing the currently prevailing return in the market for corporate bonds of a similar credit rating and duration. The cost of capital for the firm's equity is usually estimated using the capital asset pricing model.\n\nThere has been some controversy in Australia over the correct timeframe for the cost of capital. The ACCC and some academics have argued that the correct term for the cost of capital should be the length of the regulatory period (normally five years). Regulated businesses have argued, however, for a longer term - equal to the term of the longest normally-available government bonds (which is usually ten years). The Australian Competition Tribunal in 2003 held that the use of a long-term rate was appropriate and the common practice in Australia has been to use a ten-year rate since.\n\nAlmost from the start of the current period of public utility regulation in Australia (dating from the late 1990s) commentators have argued against the use of the building block model and in favour of a regulatory approach in which a regulated firm's revenue allowance is set primarily on the basis of an industry-wide change in an index of productivity. This latter approach has been known as a total factor productivity or Index-Based approach to regulation.\n\nAdvocates of the TFP or index-based approaches to regulation have claimed that it would result in more powerful incentives to reduce expenditure and lower regulatory costs. Supporters of the current regime have argued that the building block framework is capable of accommodating higher-powered incentives if that is desired, that higher-powered incentives are not necessarily desirable, and that, in practice, almost all regulatory regimes in use around the world involve periodic resetting of allowed revenues to out-turn expenditure - in a manner similar to the current practice in Australia. There does seem to be common ground that there is greater scope for benchmarking - that is inter-firm comparisons of efficiency - in regulatory practice in Australia. The Australian Energy Market Commission is currently carrying out a review of the possible role for total factor productivity in electricity distribution regulation in Australia.\n"}
{"id": "13846188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13846188", "title": "Byzantine–Norman wars", "text": "Byzantine–Norman wars\n\nA number of wars between the Normans and the Byzantine Empire were fought from 1040 until 1185, when the last Norman invasion of the Byzantine Empire was defeated. At the end of the conflict, neither the Normans nor the Byzantines could boast much power; by the mid-13th century exhaustive fighting with other powers had weakened both, leading to the Byzantines losing Asia Minor to the Ottoman Empire in the 14th century, and the Normans losing Sicily to the Hohenstaufen, who in turn were succeeded by the Angevins.\n\nThe Normans' initial military involvement in southern Italy was on the side of the Lombards against the Byzantines. Eventually, some Normans, including the powerful de Hauteville brothers, served in the army of George Maniakes during the attempted Byzantine reconquest of Sicily, only to turn against their employers when the emirs proved difficult to conquer. By 1030, Rainulf became count of Aversa, marking the start of permanent Norman settlement in Italy. In 1042, William de Hauteville was made a count, taking Lombard prince Guaimar IV of Salerno as his liege. To further strengthen ties and legitimacy, Robert Guiscard also married Lombard Princess Sikelgaita in 1058. Following the death of Guaimar, the Normans were increasingly independent actors on the south Italian scene, which brought them into direct conflict with Byzantium.\n\nDuring the time that the Normans had conquered southern Italy, the Byzantine Empire was in a state of internal decay; the administration of the Empire had been wrecked, the efficient government institutions that provided Basil II with a quarter of a million troops and adequate resources by taxation had collapsed within a period of three decades. Attempts by Isaac I Komnenos and Romanos IV Diogenes to reverse the situation proved unfruitful. The premature death of the former and the overthrow of the latter led to further collapse as the Normans consolidated their conquest of Sicily and Italy.\n\nReggio Calabria, the capital of the tagma of Calabria, was captured by Robert Guiscard in 1060. At the time, the Byzantines held a few coastal towns in Apulia, including Bari, the capital of the catepanate of Italy. In 1067–68, they gave financial support to a rebellion against Guiscard. In 1068, the Normans besieged Otranto; in the same year, they began the siege of Bari itself. After defeating the Byzantines in a series of battles in Apulia, and after two major attempts to relieve the city had failed, the city Bari surrendered in April 1071, ending the Byzantine presence in southern Italy.\n\nIn 1079–80, the Byzantines again gave their support to a rebellion against Guiscard.\n\nOver a thirty year period (1061-1091), Norman factions also completed the initial Byzantine attempt to retake Sicily. However, it would not be until 1130 that both Sicily and southern Italy were united into one kingdom, formalized by Roger II of Sicily.\n\nFollowing their successful conquest of southern Italy, the Normans saw no reason to stop; Byzantium was decaying further still and looked ripe for conquest. When Alexios I Comnenus ascended to the throne of Byzantium, his early emergency reforms, such as requisitioning Church money - a previously unthinkable move - proved too little to stop the Normans.\n\nLed by the formidable Robert Guiscard and his son Bohemund of Taranto (later, Bohemund I of Antioch), they took Dyrrhachium and Corfu, and laid siege to Larissa in Thessaly (see Battle of Dyrrhachium). Alexios suffered several defeats before being able to strike back with success. He enhanced this by bribing the German king Henry IV with 360,000 gold pieces to attack the Normans in Italy, which forced the Normans to concentrate on their defenses at home in 1083–1084. He also secured the alliance of Henry, Count of Monte Sant'Angelo, who controlled the Gargano Peninsula and dated his charters by Alexios' reign. The Norman danger ended for the time being with the death of Robert Guiscard in 1085, combined with a Byzantine victory and crucial Venetian aid that allowed the Byzantines to retake the Balkans.\n\nDuring the First Crusade, a large number of Normans naturally joined in what appeared to be a great expedition into the unknown where land and loot was plentiful. During this time, the Byzantines were able to utilize, to some extent, the aggressive Normans to defeat the Seljuk Turks in numerous battles and many cities fell. It is speculated that, in exchange for an oath of loyalty, Alexios promised land around the city of Antioch to Bohemond in order to create a buffer vassal state and simultaneously keep Bohemond away from Italy. However, when Antioch fell the Normans refused to hand it over, although in time Byzantine domination was established. Out of fear that this signaled Byzantine intentions to reconquer southern Italy and remove his suzerainty over the Normans, Pope Innocent II declared the emperor an excommunicate, and threatened any Latin Christian who served in his army with the same consequence. With the death of John Comnenus the Norman Principality of Antioch rebelled once again, attacking Cyprus and invading Cilicia, which also rebelled. The quick and energetic response of Manuel Comnenus allowed the Byzantines to extract an even more favorable \"modus vivendi\" with Antioch (in 1145 being forced to provide Byzantium with a contingent of troops and allow a Byzantine garrison in the city). However, the city was given guarantees of protection against Turkic attack and Nur ad-Din Zangi abstained from attacking the northern parts of the Crusader states as a result.\n\nIn 1147 the Byzantine empire under Manuel I Comnenus was faced with war by Roger II of Sicily, whose fleet had captured the Byzantine island of Corfu and plundered Thebes and Corinth. However, despite being distracted by a Cuman attack in the Balkans, in 1148 Manuel enlisted the alliance of Conrad III of Germany, and the help of the Venetians, who quickly defeated Roger with their powerful fleet. In ca.1148, the political situation in the Balkans was divided by two sides, one being the alliance of the Byzantines and Venice, the other the Normans and Hungarians. The Normans were sure of the danger that the battlefield would move from the Balkans to their area in Italy. The Serbs, Hungarians and Normans exchanged envoys, being in the interest of the Normans to stop Manuel's plans to recover Italy. In 1149, Manuel recovered Corfu and prepared to take the offensive against the Normans, while Roger II sent George of Antioch with a fleet of 40 ships to pillage Constantinople's suburbs. Manuel had already agreed with Conrad on a joint invasion and partition of southern Italy and Sicily. The renewal of the German alliance remained the principal orientation of Manuel's foreign policy for the rest of his reign, despite the gradual divergence of interests between the two empires after Conrad's death. However, while Manuel was in Valona planning the offensive across the Adriatic, the Serbs revolted, posing a danger to the Byzantine Adriatic bases.\n\nThe death of Roger in February 1154, who was succeeded by William I, combined with the widespread rebellions against the rule of the new King in Sicily and Apulia, the presence of Apulian refugees at the Byzantian court, and Frederick Barbarossa's (Conrad's successor) failure to deal with the Normans encouraged Manuel to take advantage of the multiple instabilities that existed in the Italian peninsula. He sent Michael Palaiologos and John Doukas, both of whom held the high imperial rank of \"sebastos\", with Byzantine troops, 10 Byzantine ships, and large quantities of gold to invade Apulia (1155). The two generals were instructed to enlist the support of Frederick Barbarossa, since he was hostile to the Normans of Sicily and was south of the Alps at the time, but he declined because his demoralised army longed to get back north of the Alps as soon as possible. Nevertheless, with the help of disaffected local barons including Count Robert of Loritello, Manuel's expedition achieved astonishingly rapid progress as the whole of southern Italy rose up in rebellion against the Sicilian Crown, and the untried William I. There followed a string of spectacular successes as numerous strongholds yielded either to force or the lure of gold.\n\nWilliam and his army landed on the peninsula and destroyed the Greek fleet (4 ships) and army at Brindisi on May 28, 1156 and recovered Bari. Adrian came to terms at Benevento on June 18, 1156 where he and William signed the Treaty of Benevento, abandoning the rebels and confirming William as king. During the summer of 1157, he sent a fleet of 164 ships carrying 10,000 men to sack Euboea and Almira. In 1158 William made peace with the Greeks.\n\nAlthough the last invasions and last large scale conflict between the two powers lasted less than two years, the third Norman invasions came closer still to taking Constantinople. The incompetent rule of Andronicus Comnenus allowed the Normans to go unchecked towards the Byzantine capital giving Thessalonica a savage sack (a grim portent of what Constantinople would face in 20 years time). The resulting panic, however, allowed Isaac Angelus to take the throne and, after defeating the confident opponent, push the invaders back to Sicily, with the exception of the County palatine of Cephalonia and Zakynthos, the latter remaining in the hands of Norman admiral Margaritus of Brindisi and his successors until 1479.\n\nWith the Normans unable to take the Balkans, they turned their attention to European affairs. The Byzantines meanwhile had not possessed the will or the resources for any Italian invasion since the days of Manuel Comnenus. After the third invasion, the survival of the Empire became more important to the Byzantines than a mere province on the other side of the Adriatic Sea. The death of William II, who was without an heir, threw the kingdom into instability and upheaval, and by 1194 the Hohenstaufen had taken power, themselves being replaced in 1266 by the Angevins. The successive Sicilian rulers would eventually continue the Norman policy of domination over post-Byzantine states in the Ionian Sea and Greece, attempting to assert suzerainty over Corfu, finally conquered in 1260, the County palatine of Cephalonia and Zakynthos, the Despotate of Epirus and other territories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25533870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25533870", "title": "Call Me: The Rise and Fall of Heidi Fleiss", "text": "Call Me: The Rise and Fall of Heidi Fleiss\n\nCall Me: The Rise and Fall of Heidi Fleiss is a television film starring Jamie-Lynn Sigler as Hollywood madame Heidi Fleiss. It aired on USA Network on March 29, 2004.\n\nHeidi Fleiss (Jamie-Lynn Sigler), the daughter of a prominent Los Angeles doctor, becomes a prostitute for well-known Los Angeles madam Alex (Brenda Fricker). She soon takes over her boss' operation and begins raking in $300,000 a month by hiring only the most beautiful and high-class prostitutes and catering to wealthy Hollywood types, Europeans, Arab sheiks, and American corporate executives. Her operation is broken up by Los Angeles police in 1993 and she is eventually sent to prison for income tax evasion.\n\n\nThe original title for the movie was \"Going Down: The Rise and Fall of Heidi Fleiss\". Filmed on location in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, many scenes were filmed at Calgary's \"Bow River Correctional Centre\", a minimum security institution which had been closed and empty for some time before filming and has since been renovated and re-opened as the \"Southern Alberta Forensic Psychiatric Centre\".\n\nThe film was released on Region 1 DVD on May 17, 2005 by 20th Century Fox. It is formatted for closed-caption and subtitled widescreen.\n\nThe music was composed by Ryan Shore.\n\n"}
{"id": "50778018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50778018", "title": "Call of Duty: Experience 2016", "text": "Call of Duty: Experience 2016\n\nCall of Duty: Experience 2016 (shortened to Call of Duty: XP 2016 and CoD: XP 2016) was the second \"Call of Duty\" gaming convention held by Activision and Infinity Ward. It took place at The Forum in Inglewood, California from September 2 to September 4, 2016. Serving as the follow-up to the , the event featured the multiplayer reveal for the upcoming title \"\" as well as the 2016 Call of Duty World League Championship.\n\nThe event was held in 2011 to promote \"\" and its multiplayer mode as well as the series' online service . Also at the event was a $1,000,000 tournament featuring competitive \"Call of Duty\" teams. For the 2016 event, select people within the \"Call of Duty\" community who had covered the game multiple times received a surprise envelope from Activision, the publisher of \"Call of Duty\", in early June 2016. These envelopes were not to be open until the day after it was received. Once opened, a ticket to the Call of Duty XP 2016 event was revealed as the envelope's contents. \n\nCall of Duty XP 2016 took place at The Forum, an arena in Inglewood, California. The convention was held from September 2 to September 4, 2016. It had three ticket packages; Enlisted ($49), Veteran ($129), and Prestige ($199), with each package tier offering more content (i.e. only the Veteran and Prestige tiers have the Care Package bonus and only the Prestige tier has the VIP Lounge access bonus). Each tier, however, features bonus digital content for both \"\" and \"\".\n\nOne of the prominent events of Call of Duty XP 2016 was the official reveal of the \"Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare\" multiplayer mode. Anyone who attended the convention was able to play the multiplayer mode hands-on, being the first people of the public to do so. Also playable was the game's Zombies mode as well as the multiplayer mode for \"\". The fourth map pack for \"Call of Duty: Black Ops III\", Salvation, was also playable at the convention.\n\nAnother prominent event of the convention was the 2016 Call of Duty World League Championship, a competitive e-sports tournament. The tournament, which is similar to the one held at the first Call of Duty XP convention, featured 32 competitive \"Call of Duty\" teams from around the world. The prize pool was $2,000,000, which became the largest prize pool in Call of Duty Championship history and double the pool at the first event. Team EnVyUs won the championship, defeating Splyce Gaming in the finals 3-1.\n\nPresent at the convention were two activities that were spin-offs from in-game experiences. One was Nuketown Paintball, which is paintball in a course that replicates the famous Nuketown map as seen in the \"Call of Duty: Black Ops\" titles. The other activity was Zombies laser tag, which was essentially laser tag in a course that replicates the Zombies mode and universe, which has been present in \"Black Ops\" titles. An experimental and exclusive \"Call of Duty\"-related PlayStation VR experience was also shown and tested at the convention. One special announcement at the convention was the detailing of the maps in \"Modern Warfare Remastered\". Originally, only ten maps from the original game were to remastered, but at the convention, Activision revealed that the six maps there were to be left out would be added in during an update in December 2016. Rappers Snoop Dogg and Wiz Khalifa were special music guests at the convention. Celtic punk band Dropkick Murphys and rapper Kanye West appeared as musical guests during the first Call of Duty XP convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "1475937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1475937", "title": "Cheltenham Festival", "text": "Cheltenham Festival\n\nThe Cheltenham Festival is a meeting in the National Hunt racing calendar in the United Kingdom, with race prize money second only to the Grand National. It is an event where many of the best British- and Irish-trained horses race to an extent which is relatively rare during the rest of the season.\n\nThe festival takes place annually in March at Cheltenham Racecourse in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire. The meeting usually coincides with Saint Patrick's Day, and is particularly popular with Irish visitors.\n\nIt features several Grade I races including the Cheltenham Gold Cup, Champion Hurdle, Queen Mother Champion Chase and Stayers' Hurdle, held over four days. Large amounts of money are gambled during Cheltenham Festival week, with hundreds of millions of pounds being bet over the week. Cheltenham is often noted for its atmosphere, most notably the \"Cheltenham roar\", which refers to the enormous amount of noise that the crowd generates as the starter raises the tape for the first race of the festival.\n\nThe Cheltenham Festival originated in 1860 when the National Hunt Chase was first held at Market Harborough. It was initially titled the Grand National Hunt Meeting and took place at several locations since its institution, at the turn of the 20th century it was mostly held at Warwick Racecourse. In 1904 and 1905 it was staged at Cheltenham over a new course established at Prestbury Park in 1902, having previously taken place at Cheltenham in 1861. From 1906 to 1910 it was again held at Warwick but further additions and major improvements made at Cheltenham by Messrs. Pratt and Company, including a new stand (the fourth one), miles of drain to prevent unsuitable racing ground, tar paving in the enclosures and the paddock extended to 35 saddling boxes, proved enough to make the National Hunt Committee decide on that the 1911 meeting was to return at Prestbury Park, Cheltenham where it remained to the present day. The earliest traceable reference to a \"Festival\" is in the Warwick Advertiser of 1907.\n\nThe Stayers' Hurdle, first ran in 1912, is the oldest race from the Cheltenham festival that is currently a championship race. The Gold Cup, established in 1924, was originally a supporting race for the County Hurdle which was the main event of the first day but that quickly changed and in the following seasons it became a championship race, however for many years it was still used by the trainers as a preparation race for the Grand National. The Champion Hurdle first ran in 1927 and the Queen Mother Champion Chase in 1959, were both championship races from the time they were introduced unlike the Stayers' Hurdle and Gold Cup.\n\nIn 1987, 21-year-old Gee Armytage became the first female jockey to win a race at the festival on 17 March 1987. She won the Kim Muir Challenge Cup, back then held on Tuesdays and backed it with another victory the next day in the Mildmay of Flete Challenge Cup on a horse aptly-named Gee-A.\n\nIn 2001 the Festival was cancelled due to an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in Britain. The meeting had initially been postponed to April, but when a case of the disease was confirmed locally, putting the racecourse within an exclusion zone, all racing had to be called off.\n\nIn 2008, the second day of the festival was cancelled due to heavy storms. The races scheduled for that day were instead run on the third and final days of the festival.\nUntil 2005 the festival had traditionally been held over the course of three days, but this changed with the introduction of a fourth day, meaning there would be one championship race on each day, climaxing with the Gold Cup on the Friday. To ensure each day would still have six races, five new races were introduced. Four further races have since been added, bringing the total to 28 races overall, with grade one events including the Champion Bumper, Triumph Hurdle, Ryanair Chase, Supreme Novices' Hurdle, Neptune Investment Management Novices' Hurdle, Arkle Challenge Trophy, RSA Chase, Champion Hurdle, World Hurdle, Queen Mother Champion Chase and the feature race, the Gold Cup.\n\nThe festival also includes one of the two biggest Hunter Chases of the season, the Foxhunters', which is run on the Friday over the same course as the Gold Cup, and is sometimes referred to as the \"amateurs' Gold Cup\".\n\nUnlike Royal Ascot and many other top flat racing events in Britain and Ireland, the Cheltenham Festival does not have a history of attracting many international contenders, though French-trained horses have done well – Baracouda being perhaps the most well-known, having landed the World Hurdle twice.\n\nFor several years there have been concerns about the number of equine injuries and fatalities. In 2006, 11 horses died and in response the racecourse decreased the number of runners in certain races and re-sited one of the more difficult fences.\n\nOn the opening day of the 2012 festival, three horses had to be euthanised after suffering bone fractures or breaks, including two during the Cross-Country Chase, becoming the second and third equine fatalities in that race since 2000. There were two further equine fatalities during the festival, and some critics claimed races should not have gone ahead due to the firmness of the ground following exceptionally dry weather. The RSPCA suggested that guidelines be reviewed, while the British Horseracing Authority stated that \"with over 90,000 runners a year [in British horse racing], some accidents and sadly some injuries are inevitable.\"\n\nThe number and type of races at the Cheltenham Festival has changed dramatically over the years of its existence. In particular, it has grown from a two-day meeting to a four-day meeting. In 2017, there were 28 races as follows:\n\nThe top jockey for the festival is the jockey who wins the most races over the four days. The winners since 1980, with wins in brackets, are: \n\n <br> The leading trainer for the festival is the trainer who trains the most winners in the races over the four days. The winners since 1997, with wins in brackets, are:\n\n"}
{"id": "55937802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55937802", "title": "Cinema Verite (The Annual Iran International Documentary Film Festival)", "text": "Cinema Verite (The Annual Iran International Documentary Film Festival)\n\nCinema Verite (The Annual Iran International Documentary Film Festival)() has been held in Tehran in the Iran since 2007. It provides a venue for encouraging artists from all parts of the world.\nThe festival was organised by The Documentary and Experimental Film Centre (DEFC).\n\nThis Festival has 3 international and another 3 national competition sections for short, mid-length and feature-length documentaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "36718816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36718816", "title": "Conference on the Application of Esperanto in Science and Technology", "text": "Conference on the Application of Esperanto in Science and Technology\n\nThe Conference on the Application of Esperanto in Science and Technology (, KAEST) is a biennial conference on the application of the international language Esperanto in science and technology.\n\nThe conference first took place in 1978 in Czechoslovakia. Following the dissolution of Czechoslovakia, it first remained in the Czech Republic, until it was transferred in 2010 to Slovakia, where it is currently being organized by the nonprofit organization E@I. Latest KAEST took place in Modra, Slovakia, from the 15th to 18 November 2012. It included a Wikipedia workshop aimed at both beginners and advanced users, organized in cooperation with Wikimedia Slovakia. Upcoming KAEST will take place from the 13th to 16 November 2014 also in Modra, with this year's topic being \"Archives and libraries – how to protect and keep our heritage\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3608404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3608404", "title": "Corruption", "text": "Corruption\n\nIn general, corruption is a form of dishonesty or criminal activity undertaken by a person or organization entrusted with a position of authority, often to acquire illicit benefit. Corruption may include many activities including bribery and embezzlement, though it may also involve practices that are legal in many countries. Political corruption occurs when an office-holder or other governmental employee acts in an official capacity for personal gain. Corruption is most commonplace in kleptocracies, oligarchies, narco-states and mafia states.\n\nCorruption can occur on different scales. Corruption ranges from small favors between a small number of people (petty corruption), to corruption that affects the government on a large scale (grand corruption), and corruption that is so prevalent that it is part of the everyday structure of society, including corruption as one of the symptoms of organized crime. Corruption and crime are endemic sociological occurrences which appear with regular frequency in virtually all countries on a global scale in varying degree and proportion. Individual nations each allocate domestic resources for the control and regulation of corruption and crime. Strategies to counter corruption are often summarized under the umbrella term anti-corruption.\n\nStephen D. Morris, a professor of politics, writes that political corruption is the illegitimate use of public power to benefit a private interest. Economist Ian Senior defines corruption as an action to (a) secretly provide (b) a good or a service to a third party (c) so that he or she can influence certain actions which (d) benefit the corrupt, a third party, or both (e) in which the corrupt agent has authority. Daniel Kaufmann, from the World Bank, extends the concept to include 'legal corruption' in which power is abused within the confines of the law—as those with power often have the ability to make laws for their protection. The effect of corruption in infrastructure is to increase costs and construction time, lower the quality and decrease the benefit.\n\nThe research work on social corruption developed at The Unicist Research Institute defines that corruption allows individuals to profit from the environment through illegitimate actions while they disintegrate the system they are part of.\n\nCorruption can occur on different scales. Corruption ranges from small favors between a small number of people (petty corruption), to corruption that affects the government on a large scale (grand corruption), and corruption that is so prevalent that it is part of the everyday structure of society, including corruption as one of the symptoms of organized crime.\n\nIncreasingly, a number of indicators and tools have been developed which can measure different forms of corruption with increasing accuracy.\n\nPetty corruption occurs at a smaller scale and takes place at the implementation end of public services when public officials meet the public. For example, in many small places such as registration offices, police stations, state licensing boards, and many other private and government sectors.\n\nGrand corruption is defined as corruption occurring at the highest levels of government in a way that requires significant subversion of the political, legal and economic systems. Such corruption is commonly found in countries with authoritarian or dictatorial governments but also in those without adequate policing of corruption.\n\nThe government system in many countries is divided into the legislative, executive and judiciary branches in an attempt to provide independent services that are less subject to grand corruption due to their independence from one another.\n\nSystemic corruption (or endemic corruption) is corruption which is primarily due to the weaknesses of an organization or process. It can be contrasted with individual officials or agents who act corruptly within the system.\n\nFactors which encourage systemic corruption include conflicting incentives, discretionary powers; monopolistic powers; lack of transparency; low pay; and a culture of impunity. Specific acts of corruption include \"bribery, extortion, and embezzlement\" in a system where \"corruption becomes the rule rather than the exception.\" Scholars distinguish between centralized and decentralized systemic corruption, depending on which level of state or government corruption takes place; in countries such as the Post-Soviet states both types occur.\nSome scholars argue that there is a negative duty of western governments to protect against systematic corruption of underdeveloped governments.\n\nCorruption can occur in any sector, whether they be public or private industry or even NGOs (especially in public sector). However, only in democratically controlled institutions is there an interest of the public (owner) to develop internal mechanisms to fight active or passive corruption, whereas in private industry as well as in NGOs there is no public control. Therefore, the owners' investors' or sponsors' profits are largely decisive.\n\nPublic corruption includes corruption of the political process and of government agencies such as the police as well as corruption in processes of allocating public funds for contracts, grants, and hiring. Recent research by the World Bank suggests that who makes policy decisions (elected officials or bureaucrats) can be critical in determining the level of corruption because of the incentives different policy-makers face.\n\nPolitical corruption is the abuse of public power, office, or resources by elected government officials for personal gain, by extortion, soliciting or offering bribes. It can also take the form of office holders maintaining themselves in office by purchasing votes by enacting laws which use taxpayers' money. Evidence suggests that corruption can have political consequences- with citizens being asked for bribes becoming less likely to identify with their country or region.\n\nThe political act of Graft (American English), is a well known and now global form of political corruption, being the unscrupulous and illegal use of a politician's authority for personal gain, when funds intended for public projects are intentionally misdirected in order to maximize the benefits to illegally private interests of the corrupted individual(s) and their cronies.\n\nThe Kaunas golden toilet case was a major Lithuanian scandal. In 2009, municipality of Kaunas (led by mayor Andrius Kupčinskas) ordered that a shipping container was to be converted into an outdoor toilet at a cost of 500'000 litas (around 150'000 euros). It was to also require 5'000 LTL (1'500 EUR) in monthly maintenance costs. At the same time when Kaunas \"golden toilet\" was built, Kėdainiai tennis club acquired a very similar, but more advanced solution for 4'500 EUR. Because of the inflated cost of the outdoor toilet was nicknamed \"golden toilet\". Despite the investment, the \"golden toilet\" remained closed for years due to the dysfunctionality and was a subject of a lengthy anti-corruption investigation into those who had created it and the local municipality even considered demolishing the building at one point. The group of public servants involved in the toilet's procurement received various prison sentences for recklessness, malfeasance, misuse of power and document falsifications in a 2012 court case, but were cleared of their corruption charges and received compensation, which pushed the total construction cost and subsequent related financial losses to 352'000 euros.\n\nVarious sources acclaim the Spanish People's Party – Partido Popular -, to be Europe's most corrupt party, with about yearly 45 billion euro worth of corruption.\n\nPolice corruption is a specific form of police misconduct designed to obtain financial benefits, personal gain, career advancement for a police officer or officers in exchange for not pursuing or selectively pursuing an investigation or arrest or aspects of the thin blue line itself where force members collude in lies to protect other members from accountability. One common form of police corruption is soliciting or accepting bribes in exchange for not reporting organized drug or prostitution rings or other illegal activities.\n\nAnother example is police officers flouting the police code of conduct in order to secure convictions of suspects—for example, through the use of falsified evidence. More rarely, police officers may deliberately and systematically participate in organized crime themselves. In most major cities, there are internal affairs sections to investigate suspected police corruption or misconduct. Similar entities include the British Independent Police Complaints Commission.\n\nJudicial corruption refers to corruption-related misconduct of judges, through receiving or giving bribes, improper sentencing of convicted criminals, bias in the hearing and judgement of arguments and other such misconduct.\n\nGovernmental corruption of judiciary is broadly known in many transitional and developing countries because the budget is almost completely controlled by the executive. The latter undermines the separation of powers, as it creates a critical financial dependence of the judiciary. The proper national wealth distribution including the government spending on the judiciary is subject to the constitutional economics.\n\nIt is important to distinguish between the two methods of corruption of the judiciary: the government (through budget planning and various privileges), and the private. Judicial corruption can be difficult to completely eradicate, even in developed countries.\nCorruption in judiciary also involves the government in power using the judicial arm of government to oppress the opposition parties in the detriments of the state.\n\nCorruption in education is a worldwide phenomenon. Corruption in admissions to universities is traditionally considered as one of the most corrupt areas of the education sector. Recent attempts in some countries, such as Russia and Ukraine, to curb corruption in admissions through the abolition of university entrance examinations and introduction of standardized computer-graded tests have largely failed. Vouchers for university entrants have never materialized. The cost of corruption is in that it impedes sustainable economic growth. Endemic corruption in educational institutions leads to the formation of sustainable corrupt hierarchies. While higher education in Russia is distinct with widespread bribery, corruption in the US and the UK features a significant amount of fraud. The US is distinct with grey areas and institutional corruption in the higher education sector. Authoritarian regimes, including those in the former Soviet republics, encourage educational corruption and control universities, especially during the election campaigns. This is typical for Russia, Ukraine, and Central Asian regimes, among others. The general public is well aware of the high level of corruption in colleges and universities, including thanks to the media. Doctoral education is no exception, with dissertations and doctoral degrees available for sale, including for politicians. Russian Parliament is notorious for \"highly educated\" MPs High levels of corruption are a result of universities not being able to break away from their Stalinist past, over bureaucratization, and a clear lack of university autonomy. Both quantitative and qualitative methodologies are employed to study education corruption, but the topic remains largely unattended by the scholars. In many societies and international organizations, education corruption remains a taboo.\nIn some countries, such as certain eastern European countries, some Balkan countries and certain Asian countries, corruption occurs frequently in universities. This can include bribes to bypass bureaucratic procedures and bribing faculty for a grade. The willingness to engage in corruption such as accepting bribe money in exchange for grades decreases if individuals perceive such behavior as very objectionable, i.e. a violation of social norms and if they fear sanctions regarding the severity and probability of sanctions.\n\nThe Teamsters (International Brotherhood of Teamsters) is an example of how the civil RICO process can be used. For decades, the Teamsters have been substantially controlled by La Cosa Nostra. Since 1957, four of eight Teamster presidents were indicted, yet the union continued to be controlled by organized crime elements. The federal government has been successful at removing the criminal influence from this 1.4 million-member union by using the civil process.\n\nThe history of religion includes numerous examples of religious leaders calling attention to corruption in the religious practices and institutions of their time. Jewish prophets Isaiah and Amos berate the rabbinical establishment of Ancient Judea for failing to live up to the ideals of the Torah. In the New Testament, Jesus accuses the rabbinical establishment of his time of hypocritically following only the ceremonial parts of the Torah and neglecting the more important elements of justice, mercy and faithfulness. In 1517, Martin Luther accuses the Catholic Church of widespread corruption, including selling of indulgences.\n\nIn 2015, Princeton University professor Kevin M. Kruse advances the thesis that business leaders in the 1930s and 1940s collaborated with clergymen, including James W. Fifield Jr., to develop and promote a new hermeneutical approach to Scripture that would de-emphasize the social Gospel and emphasize themes, such as individual salvation, more congenial to free enterprise.\n\n19th century German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer acknowledges that academics, including philosophers, are subject to the same sources of corruption as the society they inhabit. He distinguishes the corrupt \"university\" philosophers, whose \"real concern is to earn with credit an honest livelihood for themselves and ... to enjoy a certain prestige in the eyes of the public\" from the genuine philosopher, whose sole motive is to discover and bear witness to the truth.\n\nIn criminology, corporate crime refers to crimes committed either by a corporation (i.e., a business entity having a separate legal personality from the natural persons that manage its activities), or by individuals acting on behalf of a corporation or other business entity (see vicarious liability and corporate liability). Some negative behaviours by corporations may not be criminal; laws vary between jurisdictions. For example, some jurisdictions allow insider trading.\nPetróleo Brasileiro S.A. — Petrobras, more commonly known as simply Petrobras (), is a semi-public Brazilian multinational corporation in the petroleum industry headquartered in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The company's name translates to Brazilian Petroleum Corporation — Petrobras. The company was ranked #58 in the 2016 Fortune Global 500 list. It is being investigated over corporate and political collusion and corruption.\n\nOdebrecht is a privately held Brazilian conglomerate consisting of diversified businesses in the fields of engineering, real estate, construction, chemicals and petrochemicals. The company was founded in 1944 in Salvador da Bahia by Norberto Odebrecht, and the firm is now present in South America, Central America, North America, the Caribbean, Africa, Europe and the Middle East. Its leading company is . Odebrecht is one of the 25 largest international construction companies and is still led by Odebrecht family.\n\nThe firm's executives were examined during Operation Car Wash part of an investigation over Odebrecht Organization bribes to executives of Petrobras, in exchange for contracts and influence. Operation Car Wash is an ongoing criminal money laundering and bribes related corporate crime investigation being carried out by the Federal Police of Brazil, Curitiba Branch, and judicially commanded by Judge Sérgio Moro since March 17, 2014.\n\n\"Arms for cash\" can be done by either a state-sanctioned arms dealer, firm or state itself to another party it just in regards regards as only a good business partner and not political kindred or allies, thus making them no better than regular gun runners. Arms smugglers, who are already in to Arms trafficking may work for them on the ground or with shipment. The money is often laundered and records are often destroyed.\n\nIt often breaks UN, national or international law.\nPayment can also be in strange or indirect ways like arms paid for in post-war oil contracts, post-war hotel ownership, conflict diamonds, corporate shares or the long term post-war promises of superfus future contracts between the parties involved in it, etc...\nIn 2006 Transparency International ranked Angola a lowly 142 out of 163 countries in the Corruption Perception Index just after Venezuela and before the Republic of the Congo with a 2.2 rating. Angola was at 168th place (out of 178 countries) on Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI), receiving a 1.9 on a scale from 0 to 10. On the World Bank's 2009 Worldwide Governance Index, Angola had done very poorly on all six aspects of governance assessed. While its score for political stability improved to 35.8 in 2009 (on a 100-point scale) from 19.2 in 2004, Angola earned especially low scores for accountability, regulatory standards, and rule of law. The score for corruption declined from an extremely low 6.3 in 2004 to 5.2 in 2009.\n\nThe country is regarded poorly and that corruption is wounding the economy badly despite the emerging oil industries wealth.\n\nThe Mitterrand–Pasqua affair, also known informally as Angolagate, was an international political scandal over the secret and illegal sale and shipment of arms from the nations of Central Europe to the government of Angola by the Government of France in the 1990s. It led to arrests and judiciary actions in the 2000s, involved an illegal arms sale to Angola despite a UN embargo, with business interests in France and elsewhere improperly obtaining a share of Angolan oil revenues. The scandal has subsequently been tied to several prominent figures in French politics.\n\n“Angolagate”, which was carried out and uncovered over the course of the 1990s. 42 individuals, including: 42 people, including Jean-Christophe Mitterrand, Jacques Attali, Charles Pasqua and Jean-Charles Marchiani, Pierre Falcone. Arcadi Gaydamak, Paul-Loup Sulitzer, Union for a Popular Movement deputy Georges Fenech, the son of Francois Mitterrand and a former French Minister of the Interior, were all charged, accused, indicted or convicted with illegal arms trading, tax fraud, embezzlement, money laundering and other crimes. \"\n\nIn systemic corruption and grand corruption, multiple methods of corruption are used concurrently with similar aims.\n\nBribery involves the improper use of gifts and favours in exchange for personal gain. This is also known as kickbacks or, in the Middle East, as baksheesh. It is the common form of corruption. The types of favours given are diverse and may include money, gifts, sexual favours, company shares, entertainment, employment and political benefits. The personal gain that is given can be anything from actively giving preferential treatment to having an indiscretion or crime overlooked.\n\nBribery can sometimes form a part of the systemic use of corruption for other ends, for example to perpetrate further corruption. Bribery can make officials more susceptible to blackmail or to extortion.\n\nEmbezzlement and theft involve someone with access to funds or assets illegally taking control of them. Fraud involves using deception to convince the owner of funds or assets to give them up to an unauthorized party.\n\nExamples include the misdirection of company funds into \"shadow companies\" (and then into the pockets of corrupt employees), the skimming of foreign aid money, scams and other corrupt activity.\n\nThe political act of Graft (American English), is a well known and now global form of political corruption, being the unscrupulous and illegal use of a politician's authority for personal gain, when funds intended for public projects are intentionally misdirected in order to maximize the benefits to illegally private interests of the corrupted individual(s) and their cronies.\n\nWhile bribery is the use of positive inducements for corrupt aims, extortion and blackmail centre around the use of threats. This can be the threat of violence or false imprisonment as well as exposure of an individual's secrets or prior crimes.\n\nThis includes such behavior as an influential person threatening to go to the media if they do not receive speedy medical treatment (at the expense of other patients), threatening a public official with exposure of their secrets if they do not vote in a particular manner, or demanding money in exchange for continued secrecy.\n\nInfluence peddling is the illegal practice of using one's influence in government or connections with persons in authority to obtain favours or preferential treatment for another, usually in return for payment.\n\nNetworking can be an effective way for job-seekers to gain a competitive edge over others in the job-market. The idea is to cultivate personal relationships with prospective employers, selection panelists, and others, in the hope that these personal affections will influence future hiring decisions. This form of networking has been described as an attempt to corrupt formal hiring processes, where all candidates are given an equal opportunity to demonstrate their merits to selectors. The networker is accused of seeking non-meritocratic advantage over other candidates; advantage that is based on personal fondness rather than on any objective appraisal of which candidate is most qualified for the position.\n\nAbuse of discretion refers to the misuse of one's powers and decision-making facilities. Examples include a judge improperly dismissing a criminal case or a customs official using their discretion to allow a banned substance through a port.\n\nFavouritism, nepotism and clientelism involve the favouring of not the perpetrator of corruption but someone related to them, such as a friend, family member or member of an association. Examples would include hiring or promoting a family member or staff member to a role they are not qualified for, who belongs to the same political party as you, regardless of merit.\n\nSome states do not forbid these forms of corruption.\n\nCorruption is strongly negatively associated with the share of private investment and, hence, it lowers the rate of economic growth.\n\nCorruption reduces the returns of productive activities. If the returns to production fall faster than the returns to corruption and rent-seeking activities, resources will flow from productive activities to corruption activities over time. This will result in a lower stock of producible inputs like human capital in corrupted countries.\n\nCorruption creates the opportunity for increased inequality, reduces the return of productive activities, and, hence, makes rentseeking and corruption activities more attractive. This opportunity for increased inequality not only generates psychological frustration to the underprivileged but also reduces productivity growth, investment, and job opportunities.\n\nAccording to a 2017 survey study, the following factors have been attributed as causes of corruption:\n\nR. Klitgaard postulates that corruption will occur if the corrupt gain is greater than the penalty multiplied by the likelihood of being caught and prosecuted:\n\nCorrupt gain > Penalty × Likelihood of being caught and prosecuted\n\nThe degree of corruption will then be a function of the degree of monopoly and discretion in deciding who should get how much on the one hand and the degree to which this activity is accountable and transparent on the other hand. Still, these equations (which should be understood in a qualitative rather than a quantitative manner) seem to be lacking one aspect: a high degree of monopoly and discretion accompanied by a low degree of transparency does not automatically lead to corruption without any moral weakness or insufficient integrity. Also, low penalties in combination with a low probability of being caught will only lead to corruption if people tend to neglect ethics and moral commitment. The original R.Klitgaard equation has therefore been amended by C. Stephan into:\n\nAccording to Stephan, the moral dimension has an intrinsic and an extrinsic component. The intrinsic component refers to a mentality problem, the extrinsic component to external circumstances like poverty, inadequate remuneration, inappropriate work conditions and inoperable or over-complicated procedures which demoralize people and let them search for \"alternative\" solutions.\n\nAccording to the amended Klitgaard equation, limitation of monopoly and regulator discretion of individuals and a high degree of transparency through independent oversight by non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and the media plus public access to reliable information could reduce the problem. Djankov and other researchers have independently addressed the important role information plays in fighting corruption with evidence from both developing and developed countries. Disclosing financial information of government officials to the public is associated with improving institutional accountability and eliminating misbehavior such as vote buying. The effect is specifically remarkable when the disclosures concern politicians’ income sources, liabilities and asset level instead of just income level. Any extrinsic aspects that might reduce morality should be eliminated. Additionally, a country should establish a culture of ethical conduct in society with the government setting the good example in order to enhance the intrinsic morality.\n\nCreating bottom-up mechanisms, promoting citizens participation and encouraging the values of integrity, accountability, and transparency are crucial components of fighting corruption. The implementation of the ALACs “Advocacy and Legal Advice Centres (ALACs)” has led to a significant increase in the number of citizen complaints against acts of corruption received and documented and also to the development of strategies for good governance by involving citizens willing to fight against corruption.\n\nThe Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA, USA 1977) was an early paradigmatic law for many western countries i.e. industrial countries of the OECD. There, for the first time the old principal-agent approach was moved back where mainly the victim (a society, private or public) and a passive corrupt member (an individual) were considered, whereas the active corrupt part was not in the focus of legal prosecution. Unprecedented, the law of an industrial country directly condemned active corruption, particularly in international business transactions, which was at that time in contradiction to anti-bribery activities of the World Bank and its spin-off organization Transparency International.\n\nAs early as 1989 the OECD had established an ad hoc Working Group in order to explore \"...the concepts fundamental to the offense of corruption, and the exercise of national jurisdiction over offenses committed wholly or partially abroad.\"\nBased on the FCPA concept, the Working Group presented in 1994 the then \"OECD Anti-Bribery Recommendation\" as precursor for the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions which was signed in 1997 by all member countries and came finally into force in 1999. However, because of ongoing concealed corruption in international transactions several instruments of Country Monitoring have been developed since then by the OECD in order to foster and evaluate related national activities in combating foreign corrupt practices. One survey shows that after the implementation of heightened review of multinational firms under the convention in 2010 firms from countries that had signed the convention were less likely to use bribery.\n\nIn 2013, a document produced by the economic and private sector professional evidence and applied knowledge services help-desk discusses some of the existing practices on anti-corruption. They found:\n\nIn some countries people travel to corruption hot spots or a specialist tour company takes them on corruption city tours, as it is the case in Prague. Corruption tours have also occurred in Chicago, and Mexico City\n\nThough corruption is often viewed as illegal, there is an evolving concept of legal corruption, as developed by Daniel Kaufmann and Pedro Vicente. It might be termed as processes which are corrupt, but are protected by a legal (that is, specifically permitted, or at least not proscribed by law) framework.\n\nIn 1977 the USA had enacted the \"Foreign Corrupt Practices Act\" (FCPA) \"for the purpose of making it unlawful... to make payments to foreign government officials to assist in obtaining or retaining business\" and invited all OECD countries to follow suit. In 1997 a corresponding OECD Anti-Bribery Convention was signed by its members.\n\n17 years after the FCPA enacting, a Parliamentary Financial Commission in Bonn presented a comparative study on legal corruption in industrialized OECD countries As a result, they reported that in most industrial countries even at that time (1994) foreign corruption was legal, and that their foreign corrupt practices had been diverging to a large extent, ranging from simple legalization, through governmental subsidization (tax deduction), up to extremes like in Germany where foreign corruption was fostered, whereas domestic was legally prosecuted.\nConsequently, in order to support national export corporations the Parliamentary Financial Commission recommended to reject a related previous Parliamentary Proposal by the opposition leader which had been aiming to limit German foreign corruption on the basis of the US FCPA.\nOnly after the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention came into force, did Germany withdraw the legalization of foreign corruption in 1999.\n\nThe Foreign corrupt practices of industrialized OECD countries 1994 (Parliamentary Financial Commission study, Bonn).\n\nBelgium: bribe payments are generally tax deductible as business expenses if the name and address of the beneficiary is disclosed. Under the following conditions kickbacks in connection with exports abroad are permitted for deduction even without proof of the receiver:\nIn the absence of the required conditions, for corporate taxable companies paying bribes without proof of the receiver, a special tax of 200% is charged. This special tax may, however, be abated along with the bribe amount as an operating expense.\n\nDenmark: bribe payments are deductible when a clear operational context exists and its adequacy is maintained.\n\nFrance: basically all operating expenses can be deducted. However, staff costs must correspond to an actual work done and must not be excessive compared to the operational significance. This also applies to payments to foreign parties. Here, the receiver shall specify the name and address, unless the total amount in payments per beneficiary does not exceed 500 FF. If the receiver is not disclosed the payments are considered \"rémunérations occult\" and are associated with the following disadvantages:\n\nJapan: in Japan, bribes are deductible as business expenses that are justified by the operation (of the company) if the name and address of the recipient is specified. This also applies to payments to foreigners. If the indication of the name is refused, the expenses claimed are not recognized as operating expenses.\n\nCanada: there is no general rule on the deductibility or non-deductibility of kickbacks and bribes. Hence the rule is that necessary expenses for obtaining the income (contract) are deductible. Payments to members of the public service and domestic administration of justice, to officers and employees and those charged with the collection of fees, entrance fees etc. for the purpose to entice the recipient to the violation of his official duties, can not be abated as business expenses as well as illegal payments according to the Criminal Code.\n\nLuxembourg: bribes, justified by the operation (of a company) are deductible as business expenses. However, the tax authorities may require that the payer is to designate the receiver by name. If not, the expenses are not recognized as operating expenses.\n\nNetherlands: all expenses that are directly or closely related to the business are deductible. This also applies to expenditure outside the actual business operations if they are considered beneficial as to the operation for good reasons by the management. What counts is the good merchant custom. Neither the law nor the administration is authorized to determine which expenses are not operationally justified and therefore not deductible. For the business expense deduction it is not a requirement that the recipient is specified. It is sufficient to elucidate to the satisfaction of the tax authorities that the payments are in the interest of the operation.\n\nAustria: bribes justified by the operation (of a company) are deductible as business expenses. However, the tax authority may require that the payer names the recipient of the deducted payments exactly. If the indication of the name is denied e.g. because of business comity, the expenses claimed are not recognized as operating expenses. This principle also applies to payments to foreigners.\n\nSwitzerland: bribe payments are tax deductible if it is clearly operation initiated and the consignee is indicated.\n\nUS: (rough résumé: \"generally operational expenses are deductible if they are not illegal according to the FCPA\")\n\nUK: kickbacks and bribes are deductible if they have been paid for operating purposes. The tax authority may request the name and address of the recipient.\"\n\nReferring to the recommendation of the above-mentioned Parliamentary Financial Commission's study, the then Kohl administration (1991–1994) decided to maintain the legality of corruption against officials exclusively in foreign transactions and confirmed the full deductibility of bribe money, co-financing thus a specific nationalistic corruption practice (§4 Abs. 5 Nr. 10 EStG, valid until March 19, 1999) in contradiction to the 1994 OECD recommendation. The respective law was not changed before the OECD Convention also in Germany came into force (1999).\nAccording to the Parliamentary Financial Commission's study, however, in 1994 most countries' corruption practices were not nationalistic and much more limited by the respective laws compared to Germany.\nParticularly, the non-disclosure of the bribe money recipients' name in tax declarations had been a powerful instrument for Legal Corruption during the 1990s for German corporations, enabling them to block foreign legal jurisdictions which intended to fight corruption in their countries. Hence, they uncontrolled established a strong network of clientelism around Europe (e.g. SIEMENS) along with the formation of the European Single Market in the upcoming European Union and the Eurozone.\nMoreover, in order to further strengthen active corruption the prosecution of tax evasion during that decade had been severely limited. German tax authorities were instructed to refuse any disclosure of bribe recipients' names from tax declarations to the German criminal prosecution. As a result, German corporations have been systematically increasing their informal economy from 1980 until today up to 350 bn € per annum (see diagram on the right), thus continuously feeding their black money reserves.\n\nIn 2007, Siemens was convicted in the District Court of Darmstadt of criminal corruption against the Italian corporation Enel Power SpA. Siemens had paid almost €3.5 million in bribes to be selected for a €200 million project from the Italian corporation, partially owned by the government. The deal was handled through black money accounts in Switzerland and Liechtenstein that were established specifically for such purposes.\nBecause the crime was committed in 1999, after the OECD convention had come into force, this foreign corrupt practice could be prosecuted. According to Bucerius Law School professors Frank Saliger and Karsten Gaede, for the first time a German court of law convicted foreign corrupt practices like national ones although the corresponding law did not yet protect foreign competitors in business.\n\nDuring the judicial proceedings however it was disclosed that numerous such black accounts had been established in the past decades.\n\nPhilosophers and religious thinkers have responded to the inescapable reality of corruption in different ways. Plato, in \"The Republic\", acknowledges the corrupt nature of political institutions, and recommends that philosophers \"shelter behind a wall\" to avoid senselessly martyring themselves.\n\n\"Disciples of philosophy ... have tasted how sweet and blessed a possession philosophy is, and have also seen and been satisfied of the madness of the multitude, and known that there is no one who ever acts honestly in the administration of States, nor any helper who will save any one who maintains the cause of the just. Such a savior would be like a man who has fallen among wild beasts—unable to join in the wickedness of his fellows, neither would he be able alone to resist all their fierce natures, and therefore he would be of no use to the State or to his friends, and would have to throw away his life before he had done any good to himself or others. And he reflects upon all this, and holds his peace, and does his own business. He is like one who retires under the shelter of a wall in the storm of dust and sleet which the driving wind hurries along; and when he sees the rest of mankind full of wickedness, he is content if only he can live his own life and be pure from evil or unrighteousness, and depart in peace and good will, with bright hopes.\"\n\nThe New Testament, in keeping with the tradition of Ancient Greek thought, also frankly acknowledges the corruption of the world (ὁ κόσμος) and claims to offer a way of keeping the spirit \"unspotted from the world.\" Paul of Tarsus acknowledges his readers must inevitably \"deal with the world,\" and recommends they adopt an attitude of \"as if not\" in all their dealings. When they buy a thing, for example, they should relate to it \"as if it were not theirs to keep.\" New Testament readers are advised to refuse to \"conform to the present age\" and not to be ashamed to be peculiar or singular. They are advised not be friends of the corrupt world, because \"friendship with the world is enmity with God.\" They are advised not to love the corrupt world or the things of the world. The rulers of this world, Paul explains, \"are coming to nothing\" While readers must obey corrupt rulers in order to live in the world, the spirit is subject to no law but to love God and love our neighbors as ourselves. New Testament readers are advised to adopt a disposition in which they are \"in the world, but not of the world.\" This disposition, Paul claims, shows us a way to escape \"slavery to corruption\" and experience the freedom and glory of being innocent \"children of God\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8352", "title": "December 6", "text": "December 6\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "288681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288681", "title": "Dragon Boat Festival", "text": "Dragon Boat Festival\n\nThe Duanwu Festival, also often known as the Dragon Boat Festival, is a traditional holiday originating in China, occurring near the summer solstice. It is also known as Zhongxiao Festival (), commemorating fealty and filial piety. The festival now occurs on the 5th day of the 5th month of the traditional Chinese calendar, which is the source of the festival's alternative name, the Double Fifth Festival. The Chinese calendar is lunisolar, so the date of the festival varies from year to year on the Gregorian calendar. In 2016, it occurred on 9 June; in 2017, on 30 May; and in 2018, on 18 June.\n\nThe usual English name for the holiday, \"Dragon Boat Festival\", directly translates into two alternative Chinese names for the holiday, (\"Lóngchuánjié\") and (\"Lóngzhōujié\").\n\nThe official Chinese name of the festival is \"Duanwu Festival\" () on the mainland, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Macao, Malaysia and Singapore. This is pronounced variously in different Chinese languages. In Mandarin, it is romanized as \"Duānwǔjié\" on the mainland and Taiwan; in Cantonese, it is romanized as \"Tuen Ng Jit\" on Hong Kong and \"Tung Ng Jit\" on Macao. All of these names ( \"Opening the Seventh\") refer to its original position as the first seventh-day (, \"Wǔrì\") in the fifth month (, \"Wǔyuè\") of the traditional Chinese calendar, which was also known as (\"Wǔ\"). People's Republic of China use \"Dragon Boat Festival\" as the official English translation of the holiday, while Hong Kong calls it the \"Tuen Ng Festival\" and Macao calls it \"Dragon Boat Festival (\"Tun Ng\")\" in English and \"Festividade do Barco-Dragão\" (\"Tung Ng\") in Portuguese.\n\nAmong Malaysian, Singaporean, and Taiwanese Hokkien speakers, the festival is also known as the \"Fifth Month Festival,\" the \"Fifth Day Festival,\" and the \"Dumpling Festival.\"\n\nIn Korea, the holiday is called Dano. It is a significant traditional holiday in the Korean Culture. In North Korea it is an official holiday. \n\nIn Indonesian, the festival is known as \"Peh Cun\", which is derived from Hokkien ().\n\nThe story best known in modern China holds that the festival commemorates the death of the poet and minister Qu Yuan (–278 BC) of the ancient state of Chu during the Warring States period of the Zhou Dynasty. A cadet member of the Chu royal house, Qu served in high offices. However, when the king decided to ally with the increasingly powerful state of Qin, Qu was banished for opposing the alliance and even accused of treason. During his exile, Qu Yuan wrote a great deal of poetry. Twenty-eight years later, Qin captured Ying, the Chu capital. In despair, Qu Yuan committed suicide by drowning himself in the Miluo River.\n\nIt is said that the local people, who admired him, raced out in their boats to save him, or at least retrieve his body. This is said to have been the origin of dragon boat races. When his body could not be found, they dropped balls of sticky rice into the river so that the fish would eat them instead of Qu Yuan's body. This is said to be the origin of \"zongzi\".\n\nDespite the modern popularity of the Qu Yuan origin theory, in the former territory of the Kingdom of Wu, the festival commemorated Wu Zixu (died 484 BC), the Premier of Wu. Xi Shi, a beautiful woman sent by King Goujian of the state of Yue, was much loved by King Fuchai of Wu. Wu Zixu, seeing the dangerous plot of Goujian, warned Fuchai, who became angry at this remark. Wu Zixu was forced to commit suicide by Fuchai, with his body thrown into the river on the fifth day of the fifth month. After his death, in places such as Suzhou, Wu Zixu is remembered during the Duanwu Festival.\n\nAlthough Wu Zixu is commemorated in southeast Jiangsu and Qu Yuan elsewhere in China, much of Northeastern Zhejiang including the cities of Shaoxing, Ningbo and Zhoushan celebrates the memory of the young girl Cao E (, AD 130–144) instead. Cao E's father Cao Xu () was a shaman who presided over local ceremonies at Shangyu. In 143, while presiding over a ceremony commemorating Wu Zixu during the Duanwu Festival, Cao Xu accidentally fell into the Shun River. Cao E, in an act of filial piety, decided to find her father in the river, searching for 3 days trying to find him. After five days, she and her father were both found dead in the river from drowning. Eight years later, in 151, a temple was built in Shangyu dedicated to the memory of Cao E and her sacrifice for filial piety. The Shun River was renamed Cao'e River in her honour.\n\nModern research suggests that the stories of Qu Yuan or Wu Zixu were superimposed onto a pre-existing holiday tradition. The promotion of these stories might be encouraged by Confucian scholars, seeking to legitimize and strengthen their influence in China.\nThe stories of both Qu Yuan and Wu Zixu were recorded in Sima Qian's \"Shiji\", completed 187 and 393 years after the events, respectively, because historians wanted to praise both characters.\n\nAnother theory, advanced by Wen Yiduo, is that the Dragon Boat Festival originated from dragon worship. Support is drawn from two key traditions of the festival: the tradition of dragon boat racing and \"zongzi\". The food may have originally represented an offering to the dragon king, while dragon boat racing naturally reflects reverence for the dragon and the active \"yang\" energy associated with it. This was merged with the tradition of visiting friends and family on boats.\n\nAnother suggestion is that the festival celebrates a widespread feature of east Asian agrarian societies: the harvest of winter wheat. Offerings were regularly made to deities and spirits at such times: in the ancient Yue, dragon kings; in the ancient Chu, Qu Yuan; in the ancient Wu, Wu Zixu (as a river god); in ancient Korea, mountain gods (see Dano). As \n\ninteractions between different regions increased, these similar festivals eventually merged into one holiday.\n\nThe festival was long marked as a cultural festival in China and is a public holiday in Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau. The People's Republic of China government established in 1949, however, did not officially recognize Duanwu as a public holiday. Beginning in 2005, the government began to plan for the recognition of three traditional holidays, including Duanwu. Since 2008, Duanwu has been celebrated not only as a festival but also as a public holiday in the People's Republic of China. It is unofficially observed by the Chinese communities of Southeast Asia, including Singapore and Malaysia. Equivalent and related official festivals include the Japanese holiday of Children's Day (Japan).\n\nThree of the most widespread activities conducted during the Duanwu Festival are eating (and preparing) \"zongzi\", drinking realgar wine, and racing dragon boats.\n\nDragon boat racing has a rich history of ancient ceremonial and ritualistic traditions, which originated in southern central China more than 2500 years ago. The legend starts with the story of Qu Yuan, who was a minister in one of the Warring State governments, Chu. He was slandered by jealous government officials and banished by king. Out of disappointment in the Chu monarch, he drowned himself into the Miluo river. The common people rushed to the water and tried to recover his body. In commemoration of Qu Yuan, people hold dragon boat races yearly on the day of his death according to the legend. They also scattered rice into the water to feed the fish, to prevent them from eating Qu Yuan's body, which is one of the origins of \"zongzi\".\n\nA notable part of celebrating Duanwu is making and eating zongzi with family members and friends. People traditionally wrap zongzi in leaves of reed, lotus or banana forming a pyramid shape. The leaves also give a special aroma and flavor to the sticky rice and fillings. Choices of fillings vary depending on regions. Northern regions in China prefer sweet or dessert-styled zongzi, with bean paste, dates and nuts as fillings. Southern regions in China prefer savory zongzi, with a variety of fillings including marinated pork belly, sausage and salted duck eggs.\n\nTh reason why the Chinese eat zongzi on this special day is because they are considered as a symbol of luck, as the pronunciation of zong is very similar to the pronunciation of zhong (中). This character has a positive connotation, used in words such as 中奖 (winning a prize).\n\nWu (午) in the name Duanwu in Chinese has similar pronunciation as the number 5, and thus many regions have traditions of eating food that is related to the number 5. For example, the Guangdong and Hong Kong regions have the tradition of having congee made from 5 different beans.\n\nRealgar wine or xionghuang wine is a Chinese alcoholic drink that is made from Chinese yellow wine dosed with powdered realgar, a yellow-orange arsenic sulfide mineral(it is also known as \"rice wine\"). Realgarly, it is often used as a pesticide against mosquitoes and other biting insects during the hot summers, and as a common antidote against poison in ancient Asia.\n\nIn some regions of China, parents braid silk threads of 5 colors and put them on the their children's wrists, on the day of Duanwu. People believe that this will help keep bad spirits and disease away.\n\nOther common activities include hanging up icons of Zhong Kui (a mythic guardian figure), hanging mugwort and calamus, taking long walks, and wearing perfumed medicine bags. Other traditional activities include a game of making an egg stand at noon (this \"game\" implies that if someone succeeds in making the egg stand at exactly 12:00 noon, that person will receive luck for the next year), and writing spells. All of these activities, together with the drinking of realgar wine, were regarded by the ancients as effective in preventing disease or evil, while promoting health and well-being.\n\nIn the early years of the Republic of China, Duanwu was celebrated as the \"Poets' Day\" due to Qu Yuan's status as China's first known poet. The Taiwanese also sometimes conflate the spring practice of egg-balancing with Duanwu.\n\nThe sun is considered to be at its strongest around the time of summer solstice, as the daylight in the northern hemisphere is the longest. The sun, like the Chinese dragon, traditionally represents masculine energy, whereas the moon, like the phoenix, traditionally represents feminine energy. The summer solstice is considered the annual peak of male energy while the winter solstice, the longest night of the year, represents the annual peak of feminine energy. The masculine image of the dragon was thus associated with the Dragon Boat Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "33894927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33894927", "title": "E.T.A.-Hoffmann-Theater", "text": "E.T.A.-Hoffmann-Theater\n\nE.T.A.-Hoffmann-Theater is a theatre in Bavaria, Germany.\n"}
{"id": "51583699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51583699", "title": "Eastern Qalamoun offensive (September–October 2016)", "text": "Eastern Qalamoun offensive (September–October 2016)\n\nThe Eastern Qalamoun offensive was a large-scale military offensive against Syrian rebel positions in the eastern Qalamoun Mountains of the Rif Dimashq Governorate launched by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant along a frontline of more than 15 kilometers in the region.\n\nOn 3 September 2016, ISIL sent two car bombs towards rebel positions in the mountains, but both destroyed before they could reach their targets. Following this, ISIL forces stormed the rebel-held territory from three different axis, overrunning several positions and reportedly killing more than 20 rebels.\n\nThree days later, an ISIL convoy was deployed as they launched a second assault in the area. During the clashes, the rebels destroyed an ISIL T-72, a bulldozer, and a ZU-23-2, the latter with a BGM-71 TOW missile. The next day, Jaysh al-Islam recaptured a hill near Dumayr from ISIL.\n\nOn 9 September, ISIL launched a third attack against rebel forces in the mountains. Rebels led by Jaysh al-Islam and various Free Syrian Army factions repelled the assault and dozens of ISIL fighters were killed. Hundreds of rebel reinforcements reportedly arrived to the region the next day. On 13 September, ISIL recaptured the three hilltops of Jabal Zubaydi, Tall Daba'a and Jabal al-Afa'i. On 14–15 September, rebels launched a counter-attack to regain Jabal al-Afa'i. On 17–18 September, ISIL forces launched a successful assault against rebel positions at Badiya, killing four and capturing forty defenders, while losing two vehicles in return. Heavy fighting between rebels and ISIL in the area was reported on 19 September, as the ISIL offensive entered its 3rd week.\n\nOn 21 September, Ahrar al-Sham and the Forces of Martyr Ahmad al-Abdo recaptured the Rajem al-A'ali area, giving them the control of 40% of the al-Afa'i Mountains, while a Syrian Air Force MiG-23 targeting ISIL crashed in the region. Rebel forces made further progress later that day, retaking several positions at Jebal Batra. The pilot of the crashed government jet landed in rebel territory in the mountains and as a result of a truce in the area, the rebels handed him over to the Syrian Armed Forces and reportedly received small arms and ammunition from government forces in return. By 23 September, the rebels were in control of 70% of Jabal al-Afa'i.\n\nOn 26 September, unknown gunmen attempted to assassinate Harith Siwar, commander of Jaysh al-Islam in the Eastern Qalamoun Mountains. On 29 September, ISIL forces launched a new attack in the eastern Qalamoun Mountains, leading to heavy clashes with the rebel defenders. In the night of 1–2 October, ISIL fighters stormed eastern Jabal al-Afa'i amid heavy fighting with FSA forces. Two days later, Jaysh al-Islam repelled another major ISIL attack on Jabal al-Afa'i and al-Naqab. On 9 October, 12 ISIL fighters and an unknown number of rebels were killed in clashes after an attack by ISIL on al-Khandaq and al-Naqab mountain. Five rebels were killed in clashes on the following day. On 15 October, rebels launched an assault on Kahil Tes and Mahol areas.\n\nOn 26 October, Syrian military bombarded areas under ISIL control in the region. On 2 November, clashes renewed between ISIL and rebels, concentrated in the area of Jabal al-Afa'i.\n\nOn 6 November, the rebels launched their own offensive, attacking ISIL positions. The rebels stated they had captured three checkpoints, with 7 ISIL fighters and 4 rebels being killed in the clashes. With the recent advances, rebels broke the siege imposed by ISIL on them in the region and had started advancing northwards to retake territory previously captured by the group.\n\nOn 29 December, FSA forces launched an offensive toward ISIL lines in the eastern Qalamoun and captured five villages.\n\n"}
{"id": "51131942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51131942", "title": "Emerald Star (book)", "text": "Emerald Star (book)\n\nEmerald Star is the 2013 sequel to \"Hetty Feather\" and \"Sapphire Battersea\" written by best-selling British author Jacqueline Wilson and illustrated by Nick Sharratt. The story starts with Hetty arriving at an inn in her late mother's old village a few weeks after the events of \"Sapphire Battersea\".\n\nThe story starts with Hetty Feather searching for her long lost father a few weeks after her mother's death in her mother's old village of Monksby to find her long lost father. Soon she then manages to find her father, Bobbie Waters. However, he already has a wife and two children, Mina and Ezra. She and Katherine, her father's wife, who doubts her parentage, start to develop a hatred for each other. To confirm her parentage Hetty writes to old friend Miss Smith as she is a governor at the Foundling Hospital. Miss Smith soon replies to confirm her parentage. After deciding she didn't fit in with her family in Monksby, she leaves to reunite with Jem, for her foster father's funeral.\n\nDuring the funeral, she befriends Jem's childhood friend, Janet. After the funeral, she then starts living with Jem and taking care of their disabled mother while Jem works at the farm. Soon after, Gideon her foster brother, returns from the Army with a missing eye. Hetty starts to become fed up with doing the same things everyday. Jem and Hetty spend Christmas with Janet's family. Hetty soon finds Janet's diary and discovers that Janet is in love with Jem.\n\nThe circus returns and Hetty reunites with her childhood idol, Madame Adeline and meets a little girl called Diamond, who is terrified of her master, Beppo, who often beats her. After falling in love with the circus all over again. Hetty joins the circus as the ringmaster. After a final goodbye to Jem, Hetty leaves for a new life.\n\nAlthough originally intended to be the last in the series, it is followed by \"Diamond\", a story which follows Diamond, a girl Hetty met in the circus during \"Emerald Star\". Which is then followed by \"Little Stars\" which follows both Hetty and Diamond after the events of \"Diamond\".\n"}
{"id": "53205382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53205382", "title": "Eufranio Eriguel", "text": "Eufranio Eriguel\n\nEufranio \"Franny\" Chan Eriguel, M.D. (June 12, 1959 – May 12, 2018) was a Filipino medical doctor and politician from the Eriguel political clan of La Union, who was gunned down in an ambush on 12 May 2018.\n\nEriguel served three terms as Mayor of Agoo, La Union and two terms as Congressman for the Second District of La Union. His wife Sandra Young Eriguel (widow) currently serves as Congressman for the Second District of La Union, while his daughter Stefanie Ann Eriguel currently serves as Mayor of Agoo.\n\nEriguel is notable for his involvement in the landmark \"Land Bank of the Philippines v. Cacayuran\" case, in which the construction of a commercial building within the premises of the town plaza, which the Philippine Supreme court later ruled to be \"irregular,\" although the court later granted a motion for reconsideration regarding the case on May 15, 2015 because the Municipality of Agoo had not been impleaded in the original case. \n\nHe later received wide media attention in 2016 when he was included by Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte as one of the local government officials and legislators allegedly involved in illegal drug trade in his August 16 \"I am sorry for my country\" speech - an allegation which he and other La Union politicians denied. \n\nOn April 2017, Eriguel's name was removed the drug list and the original inclusion was said to be politically colored because rival politicians allegedly provided the list to President Duterte. Eriguel, who had been a founding force in former Vice President Jejomar Binay's United Nationalist Alliance, was sworn into the ruling PDP–Laban party by Speaker Pantaleon Alvarez.\n\nEriguel and two others were gunned down in an ambush on 12 May 2018. He had earlier survived a bombing incident during the campaign period for the 2016 General Election.\n\nEriguel completed a pre-medical course at the University of Santo Tomas, which he completed in 1979, receiving a Bachelor of Science degree (BS General / Pre-med). He completed his studies in medicine at the University of Santo Tomas in 1983.\n\nEriguel became Mayor of Agoo on 1 July 1998 and held this office until 30 June 2007. Through his leadership, Agoo reaped regional and national awards: Hall of Fame Awardee as the Cleanest, Safest and Greenest Municipality - 1st to 3rd Class Municipality Category (Gawad Pangulo sa Kapaligiran)Regional and National Level, Best LGU (1st - 3rd Class Municipality Category) in Literacy Promotion (2-time National and Regional Champion) , and other numerous local awards in different fields of local governance. \n\nDuring his term as Mayor of Agoo, Eriguel was instrumental in the construction of a commercial building within the premises of the town plaza - a redevelopment which the Philippine Supreme court later ruled to be \"irregular\" in its landmark \"Land Bank of the Philippines v. Cacayuran\" ruling. The decision \"penalizes abusive municipal officials\" even beyond their terms, so it is considered a “landmark” case in Philippine Jurisprudence. However, the court later granted a motion for reconsideration regarding the case on May 15, 2015 because the Municipality of Agoo had not been impleaded in the original case.. \n\nAnother redevelopment which took place during Eriguel's term as Mayor of Agoo was the partial conversion of the Museo de Iloko into a franchise of fastfood giant Chowking. The Don Eufemio F. Eriguel Memorial National High School, named after Eriguel's father, was also established during his term.\n\nAfter a nine-year tenure, he had reached the maximum term limit 30 June 2007, and could no longer run for the position mayor of Agoo. His wife Sandra Young Eriguel won as Mayor on May 15, 2007. Eriguel was then appointed as an adviser to the government of the province of La Union for municipal affairs - a post he held until June 30, 2010.\n\nIn the elections of May 10, 2010, Eriguel was elected as a member of the House of Representatives as a candidate for the Nationalist People’s Coalition (NPC), representing the 2nd District of La Union. During his term as Congressman for the Second District of La Union, Eriguel served as chair of the House Committee on Health, and was among the members of the bicameral committee that passed the Graphic Health Warning bill.\n\nOn June 11, 2014, Eriguel filed House Bill 4644 in an attempt to create a new city in the Second District of La Union by merging the municipalities of Agoo and Aringay. The bill was co-authored by Eriguel's allies, La Union first district Rep. Victor Ortega and Abono party-list Rep. Francisco Emmanuelle Ortega III. \n\nThe bill would have created the \"City of Agoo-Aringay\", would have two districts under a city mayor and city vice mayor along with 14 councilors in the Sangguniang Panlungsod, all of which were \"new\" positions for which the former municipal officials could run despite having finished the terms limits of their offices.\n\nEriguel's caravan was involved in a bombing incident, believed to be an assassination attempt, on April 30, 2016 in Agoo, La Union. The incident claimed the life of his driver-supporter, Mr. Jiovannie “Dalmas” Cacayuran and seriously injured eight (8) other individuals including his Aide, Mr. Samuel Ofiaza who lost his right eye. Mr. Cacayuran was only 31 years old and he is survived by his wife and an eight-year old son. \n\nOn August 16, 2016, Eriguel was included by Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte as one of the local government officials and legislators allegedly involved in illegal drug trade in his \"I am sorry for my country\" speech. Eriguel and other La Union politicians denied these allegations. In the last part of March 2017, Eriguel and three other La Union politicians were removed from the narco-politician list. A Manila Times news report quoted sources who said that the inclusion of Eriguel in narco-politician list was politically motivated as there are several personalities close to those in charge of providing the list to the President who have taken advantage of the situation to include the names of their rival politicians.\n\nOn June 17, 2018, Eriguel, who had been a founding force in former Vice President Jejomar Binay's United Nationalist Alliance, was sworn into the ruling PDP–Laban party by Speaker Pantaleon Alvarez.\n\nOn 12 May 2018, Eriguel and two others were gunned down by unknown assailants in an ambush during an event for the 2018 Barangay elections. \n\n"}
{"id": "340687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340687", "title": "Gleiwitz incident", "text": "Gleiwitz incident\n\nThe Gleiwitz incident (; ) was a covert Nazi German attack on the German radio station \"Sender Gleiwitz\" on the night of 31 August 1939 (today Gliwice, Poland). The attack is widely regarded as a deceitful false flag operation, staged with some two dozen similar German incidents on the eve of the invasion of Poland leading up to World War II in Europe. The attackers had been posed as Polish nationals. Adolf Hitler invaded Poland the next morning after a lengthy period of preparations. During his declaration of war, Hitler did not mention the Gleiwitz incident but grouped all provocations staged by the SS as an alleged Polish assault on Germany. The Gleiwitz incident is the best-known action of Operation Himmler, a series of special operations undertaken by the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS) to serve Nazi German propaganda at the outbreak of war. The operation was intended to create the appearance of Polish aggression against Germany to justify the invasion of Poland. Evidence for the Gleiwitz attack by the SS was provided by the German SS officer, Alfred Naujocks in 1945.\n\nMuch of what is known about the Gleiwitz incident comes from the affidavit of \"SS-Sturmbannführer\" Alfred Naujocks at the Nuremberg Trials. In his testimony, he stated that he organised the incident under orders from Reinhard Heydrich and Heinrich Müller, chief of the Gestapo. On the night of 31 August 1939, a small group of German operatives dressed in Polish uniforms and led by Naujocks seized the Gleiwitz station and broadcast a short anti-German message in Polish (sources vary on the content of the message). The operation was named \"Grossmutter gestorben\" (Grandmother died). The operation was to make the attack and the broadcast look like the work of Polish anti-German saboteurs.\nTo make the attack seem more convincing, the Germans murdered Franciszek Honiok, a 43-year-old unmarried German Silesian Catholic farmer, known for sympathising with the Poles. He had been arrested the previous day by the Gestapo and dressed to look like a saboteur, then killed by lethal injection, given gunshot wounds. Honiok was left dead at the scene so that he appeared to have been killed while attacking the station. His corpse was then presented to the police and press as proof of the attack. Several prisoners from the Dachau concentration camp were drugged, shot dead on the site and their faces disfigured to make identification impossible. The Germans referred to them by the code phrase \"Konserve\" (canned goods). Some sources incorrectly refer to the incident as Operation Canned Goods. In an oral testimony at the trials, Erwin von Lahousen stated that his division of the \"Abwehr\" was one of two that were given the task of providing Polish Army uniforms, equipment and identification cards; he was later told by Wilhelm Canaris that people from concentration camps had been disguised in these uniforms and ordered to attack the radio stations.\n\nThe Gleiwitz incident was a part of a larger operation carried out by Abwehr and SS forces. Other orchestrated incidents were conducted along the Polish-German border at the same time as the Gleiwitz attack, such as a house burning in the Polish Corridor and spurious propaganda. The project was called Operation Himmler and comprised incidents giving the appearance of Polish aggression against Germany. German newspapers and politicians, including Adolf Hitler, had made accusations against Polish authorities for months before the 1939 invasion of organising or tolerating violent ethnic cleansing of ethnic Germans living in Poland. On 1 September 1939, the day following the Gleiwitz attack, Germany launched \"Fall Weiss\" (Case White) the invasion of Poland, which precipitated World War II in Europe. Hitler cited the border incidents in a speech in the Reichstag on the same day, with three of them called very serious, as justification for his invasion of Poland. Hitler had told his generals on 22 August, \"I will provide a propagandistic casus belli. Its credibility doesn't matter. The victor will not be asked whether he told the truth\".\n\nAmerican correspondents were summoned to the scene the next day but no neutral parties were allowed to investigate the incident in detail and the international public was sceptical of the German version of the incident.\n\nThere have been several adaptations of the incident in cinema. \"Der Fall Gleiwitz\" (1961), directed by Gerhard Klein for DEFA studios (\"The Gleiwitz Case\"; English subtitles), is an East German film that reconstructs the events.\n\n\"Operacja Himmler\" (1979) is a Polish film that covers the events.\n\nBoth \"Die Blechtrommel\" (1979), directed by Volker Schlöndorff and \"\" (1985), directed by Jim Goddard, briefly include the incident.\n\nIt was also mentioned in a video game; \"\" (2004), which stirred up controversy in Poland where the game was briefly discussed in Polish media as anti-Polish falsification of history, before the issue was cleared up as a case of poor reporting.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2781243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2781243", "title": "Gold Coast Film Festival", "text": "Gold Coast Film Festival\n\nThe Gold Coast Film Festival is an annual film festival held across the Gold Coast in Queensland, Australia. The festival is a celebration of film culture that delivers a program of feature films, special events, seminars and workshops, special guests and art. The Gold Coast Film Festival’s purpose is to emerge the dynamic and creative culture community and to encourage the next generation of homegrown filmmakers. The Gold Coast Film Festival celebrates and promotes all aspects of film and filmmaking from one of Australia’s pre-eminent filmmaking locations and holiday destinations – the Gold Coast. The festival offers a culturally diverse program of films such as genre films, internationally acclaimed dramas, Japanese anime, local independent films and national and international special guests within the film industry.\n\nThe Gold Coast Film Festival is the city’s flagship film event and enhances the reputation of the city as one of Australia’s major filmmaking hubs.\n\nFestival Director Lucy Fisher leads the GCFF, Academy Award winner John Cox holds the position of festival patron, and our board consists of notable industry figures including Mike Selwyn (ex Managing Director – Paramount Pictures) and producer Chris Brown (\"The Railway Man, Daybreakers\").\n\nThe GCFF is supported by the QLD State Government through Screen QLD and Tourism and Events QLD, and the City of Gold Coast.\n\nThe Gold Coast has had over two decades of international film production with the world-renowned Warner Brothers Studios, the Gold Coast is a profound location for film and television production from its natural endearments, climate, beaches, marine life, rainforest and hinterland that made it an ideal location for film and television production. The Gold Coast Film Festival has become a major event for the Australian Film Industry and ambitious filmmakers alike worldwide.\n\nModelled on the Brussels International Festival of Fantasy Film, The Gold Coast Film Festival once showcased the many genres of fantasy film, including science fiction, horror, special effects, animation, anime and children’s fantasy together with sidebar events. The Festival now highlights films from all genres, including horror, fantasy, drama, comedy, independent and documentaries. The festival is open to the public.\n\nThe Gold Coast Film Festival also supported Australia's first online video maker award ceremony, the Australian Webstream Awards in 2013 and is supported by ABC Gold Coast. Past Program Director, Mitch Ziems, helped open the ceremony that took place at the Metro Arts Theatre in Brisbane, Queensland on 16 November.\n\nOriginally Queensland-only, the fest has opened up, looking outside the state for films in a bid \"to have that element of discovery rather than just being reliant on distribution to find our films,\" Festival Director Lucy Fisher says.\n\nThe first Gold Coast Film Festival took place in August 2002, the festival director was Casey Marshall Siemer with Oscar-winning visual effects specialist John Cox as patron. As of 2014 the Festival Director is now Kylie Pascoe. The Gold Coast Film festival has a cultural partnership with Supanova Pop Culture Expo and QPOW! as a part of the Gold Coast’s pop culture heritage The Festival is Supported by the QLD State Government through screen Queensland’s Screen Culture Fund, the tourism and events Queensland Regional Development program and The City of the Gold Coast. The festival also has a series of free filmmaking workshops and seminars as well as the GCFF Future Filmmakers seminar held at Bond University for year 11 and 12 high school students who are interested in the film industry to learn from industry leaders, such as directing, writing and producing. The festival also has one-hour seminars, workshops and panels called the inaugural REELLIFE program tailored for the aspiring filmmaker on topics such as financing, film distribution and building online content, which are also presented by industry leaders.\n\nThe 15th annual Gold Coast Film Festival will run from Wednesday 19 April – Sunday 30 April 2017 at venues across the Gold Coast.\n\nThe full 2017 Program of films and events will be announced in early March. You can expect everything from Australian indie gems to European drama and intriguing American arthouse. There will also be Q&A’s with filmmakers, film industry panels and schools screenings and talks.\n\nFor the first time in its 15-year history, the Gold Coast Film Festival 2017 will accept submissions for feature films to screen at the event.\n\nThe 2016 Gold Coast Film Festival attracted a record 14,148 attendees across ten days of film screenings and events, increasing attendance by 12% on the previous year.\n\nFrom internationally acclaimed dramas, comedies and genre films, locally made indie gems and family features, the GCFF offered a culturally diverse, interactive and engaging program of film, events and special guests.\n\nThe Festival welcomed some impressive International and Australian industry guests, including Claudia Karvan, Gracie Otto and David Stratton.\n\nFor filmmakers and students alike the festival runs a series of free seminars and workshops to educate, inspire and embrace the Gold Coast as a filmmaking destination.\n\nOur location is one with a heritage of filmmaking, with international filmmaking introduced on the Gold Coast in the late 1980s. Fast-forward to 2017 and major international films \"Unbroken\", \"Pirates of the Caribbean and \" have chosen the Gold Coast’s incredible locations and highly competent crew to shoot their multimillion-dollar films.\n\nThe Gold Coast boasts a heritage of filmmaking, with international filmmaking introduced to the city in the late 1980s.\n\nFast-forward to 2017 and in the past year, major international films \" and \" have chosen the Gold Coast’s incredible locations and highly competent crew to shoot their multimillion-dollar films.\n\nUS productions that have chosen to shoot on the Gold Coast have a combined production budget of A$1.7 billion alone.\n\nAs the city’s flagship film event we aim to enhance the reputation of the city as one of Australia’s major filmmaking hubs.\n\nVillage Roadshow Studios is a big drawcard in attracting international production to the city. The studios offer film production facilities consisting of eight sound stages, three water tanks, ten production offices, editing suites, wardrobe, makeup, construction, paint and carpentry shops.\n\nEqually, the incredibly diverse range of film locations on the Gold Coast means everything from swamps to city scenes, waterfalls to beaches can be shot here.\n\nLocal production is also healthy, with a steady stream of productions shooting on the Gold Coast, including in the past year, Jungle and Flammable Children.\n\nRecent productions filmed or edited on the Gold Coast include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20429967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20429967", "title": "Id - Identity of the soul", "text": "Id - Identity of the soul\n\nid - Identity of the Soul is a work of performance art produced by \nMartine Rød and directed by Thomas Hoegh. The first version of this work, Terje, was performed in Yokohama, Japan in 2006 with Paal Ritter Schjerven as Co-Director and Director of Cinematography. \nand the latest version premiered in Palestine in 2008. In 2009 the show then toured to Doha, Qatar in May and to the Teater Ibsen in Skien, Norway in June. The Studio version of id (a smaller, more portable version of the production) had its English premiere at the Cambridge Film Festival on 17 September 2009 and is currently touring the UK.\n\nBased on Norwegian playwright Henrik Ibsen's poem 'Terje Vigen' \nand Palestinian poet Mahmoud Darwish's \"A Soldier \nDreams Of White Lilies\" \nid is a combination of music and poetry along\nwith film projected onto five separate screens. The \nsoundtrack was composed by Paul Noble and Dan Berridge, and is a fusion \nof traditional Scandinavian and Arabic music with contemporary \nelectronic \nrhythms.\n\nid has been performed in several cities since 2006, and continues its world and UK tour\n\n"}
{"id": "28090929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28090929", "title": "Imagining Madoff", "text": "Imagining Madoff\n\nImagining Madoff is a 2010 play by playwright Deb Margolin that tells the story of an imagined encounter between Bernard Madoff, the admitted operator of what has been described as the largest Ponzi scheme in history, and his victims. Margolin had originally planned to use Nobel Laureate and Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel as a character representing a victim, but was obliged by legal threats to substitute a fictional character, whom she named Solomon Galkin.\n\nWiesel had been one of Madoff's most notable victims, having lost his life savings to Madoff's fraud in addition to more than $15 million in losses to a charitable foundation Wiesel operated, the Elie Wiesel Foundation for Humanity, with Wiesel calling Madoff a \"thief, scoundrel, criminal\". Wiesel had been chosen as a character by Margolin because she felt that he was \"synonymous with decency, morality, the struggle for human dignity and kindness\". In Margolin's original version of the play, the Elie Wiesel character was intended to be a moral authority and key character in the play, in which he recounted his concentration camp experiences and provided meditations on repentance. Margolin sent a copy of the play to Wiesel, who responded in April 2010 with a letter calling the play \"obscene\" and \"defamatory\" and threatening legal action to prevent the play from being staged. In an interview with National Public Radio on May 20, 2010, attorney Richard Lehv expressed his opinion that Wiesel would have had little chance in court of preventing Margolin from using him as a character, noting that \"it's a free country. You can make a public figure a character in a work of fiction.\"\n\nThe play was originally to have been staged at Theater J, a Jewish theater in Washington, D.C. in May 2010, but was canceled after Wiesel made his objections known. After Ari Roth, artistic director of Theater J, had offered to submit the play to Wiesel's foundation for review, Margolin objected, viewing the offer as giving Wiesel veto power over the play's content. Margolin called the experience \"painful\" and said that she was \"still scared to talk about it\" because of fear of lawsuits, but she felt that she \"didn't want to abandon this play\". Though the character of Wiesel was formally excised from the play, the replacement character Solomon Galkin, described in the play's script as \"80 years old, Holocaust survivor, poet, translator, treasurer of his synagogue\", retained most of the dialogue that had originally been planned for the Wiesel character.\n\nThe revised play premiered in July-August 2010 at Stageworks/Hudson in Hudson, New York. It ran at Washington's Theater J from August 31 to September 25, 2011. \n\nArtistic director Laura Margolis of Stageworks/Hudson has commented that nothing was lost by removing the Wiesel character, and that the new version of the play gave Margolin greater liberties to develop the Galkin character as a person, rather than as representing a famous figure. In a July 2010 article in \"The New York Times\", Margolin emphasized that she had never planned \"to be on the wrong side of anybody, let alone someone I admire\".\n\nThe New Repertory Theatre of Watertown, MA staged the New England premiere in January 2014, which included sixteen sold-out performances. An encore extension was co-presented with the Boston Center for American Performance at the Boston University Theatre-Comley Studio 210 in May-June 2014.\n\nOn February 27, 2012, Deb Margolin's Imagining Madoff was nominated for the 28th Annual Helen Hayes Awards which celebrates excellence in professional theater in the Washington D.C. area.\n"}
{"id": "40631543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40631543", "title": "International reactions to the Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 shootdown", "text": "International reactions to the Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 shootdown\n\nThe shooting down of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 on 17 July 2014 provoked reactions from many countries and organisations.\n\n Argentinian President Cristina Fernández expressed her deep condolence to the families of the victims and called for an independent and fair investigation of the tragedy.\n\nThe downing of the flight had resulted in the death of 38 Australian citizens and residents. In the lead up to the 2014 G20 meeting in Brisbane, Tony Abbott sought to focus attention on Russia's role in the shooting. In a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin at the APEC meeting in Beijing, Abbott reportedly told the president that Australia had information that the missile that destroyed the plane had Russian origin and that Russia should consider apologising and offering appropriate restitution to the victims of the shooting. Russia continued to deny involvement.\n\nAustralian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull stated that, after the release of the Dutch Safety Board report into the shoot-down, Australia \"will not be bullied by Russia\" and that \"those who committed this crime must answer for it\". Turnbull also stated in regards to the Russian veto at the UN Security Council that \"we [Australia] deplore the conduct of Russia using its Security Council veto in July to block the establishment of a special international criminal tribunal\".\n\nSouth African Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Maite Nkoana-Mashabane urged world leaders not to jump to conclusions on the incident. President Jacob Zuma sent a message of condolence to Malaysia and called for independent investigation, saying: \"We also extend our sympathies to the Government and the people of Malaysia, as well as all countries that have lost their citizens in the tragic crash. South Africa calls for a thorough, transparent and independent investigation to determine the cause of the incident\".\n\n\nSince the crash, memorial services have been held in Australia and the Netherlands, with the Netherlands declaring a national day of mourning. The opening ceremony of the AIDS 2014 conference, of which several delegates were on board flight MH17, began with a tribute to the victims of the crash. In Malaysia, makeshift memorials were created in the capital city of Kuala Lumpur.\n"}
{"id": "606281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=606281", "title": "Intrinsic fraud", "text": "Intrinsic fraud\n\nIntrinsic fraud is an intentionally false representation that goes to the heart of what a given lawsuit is about, in other words, whether fraud was used to procure the transaction. (If the transaction was fraudulent, it probably does not have the legal status of a contract.) Intrinsic fraud is distinguished from extrinsic fraud (a/k/a collateral fraud) which is a deceptive means of keeping a person from discovering and/or enforcing legal rights. It is possible to have either intrinsic or extrinsic frauds, or both.\n\nDuring a trial, perjury, forgery, and bribery of a witness constitute frauds that might have been relieved by the court. Such actions will usually lead to a mistrial being declared and after any penalties for the involved parties a new trial will take place on the same matter.\n\nTwo types of intrinsic fraud in contract law are \"fraud in the inducement\" and \"fraud in the factum\".\n\n\"Fraud in the factum\" is a legal defense, and occurs where A signs a contract, but either does not realize that it is a contract or does not understand the nature of the contract, because of some false information that B gave to A. \"For example,\" if John tells his mother that he is taking a college course on handwriting analysis, and for his homework, he needs her to read and sign a pretend deed. If Mom signs the deed believing what he told her, and John tries to enforce the deed, Mom can plead \"fraud in the factum.\"\n\n\"Fraud in the inducement\" is an equitable defense, and occurs when A signs a contract, knowing that it is a contract and (at least having a rough idea) what the contract is about, but the reason A signed the contract was because of some false information that B gave to A. \"For example,\" if John tells his mother to sign a deed giving him her property, Mom refuses at first, then John explains that the deed will be kept in a safe deposit box until she dies. If Mom signs the deed because of this statement from John, and John tries to enforce the deed prior to Mom's death, Mom can plead \"fraud in the inducement.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "735566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=735566", "title": "Jeremiah Denton", "text": "Jeremiah Denton\n\nJeremiah Andrew Denton Jr. (July 15, 1924 – March 28, 2014) was a U.S. Senator representing Alabama from 1981 to 1987, a United States Navy Rear Admiral and Naval Aviator taken captive during the Vietnam War.\n\nDenton was widely known for enduring almost eight years of grueling conditions as an American prisoner of war (POW) in North Vietnam after the A-6 Intruder he was piloting was shot down in 1965. He was the first of all American POWs held captive and released by Hanoi to step off an American plane during Operation Homecoming in February 1973. As one of the earliest and highest-ranking officers to be taken prisoner in North Vietnam, Denton was forced by his captors to participate in a 1966 televised propaganda interview which was broadcast in the United States. While answering questions and feigning trouble with the blinding television lights, Denton blinked his eyes in Morse code, spelling the word \"TORTURE\"—and confirming for the first time to U.S. Naval Intelligence that American POWs were being tortured.\n\nIn 1976, Denton wrote \"When Hell Was in Session\" about his experience in captivity, which was made into the 1979 film with Hal Holbrook. Denton was also the subject of the 2015 documentary \"Jeremiah\" produced by Alabama Public Television.\n\nDenton was born July 15, 1924, in Mobile, Alabama, the oldest of three brothers, and the son of Jeremiah, Sr. and Irene (Steele) Denton. He attended McGill-Toolen Catholic High School and Spring Hill College in Mobile, Alabama.\n\nIn June 1943, he entered the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, and graduated three years later in the accelerated Class of 1947 on June 5, 1946, with a Bachelor of Science degree. His 34-year naval career included service on a variety of ships and on aircraft, including airships (blimps). His principal field of endeavor was naval operations. He also served as a test pilot, flight instructor, and commanding officer of an attack squadron flying the A-6 Intruder.\n\nIn 1957, he was credited with revolutionizing naval strategy and tactics for nuclear war as architect of the \"Haystack Concept.\" This strategy called for concealing aircraft carriers from radar by intermingling with commercial shipping and avoiding formations suggestive of a naval fleet. The strategy was simulated in maneuvers and demonstrated effectiveness, allowing two aircraft carrier fleets thirty-five simulated atomic launches before aggressor aircraft and submarines could repel them. He went on to serve on the staff of the Commander, U.S. Sixth Fleet at the rank of Commander (O-5) as Fleet Air Defense Officer.\n\nDenton graduated from the Armed Forces Staff College and the Naval War College, where his thesis on international affairs received top honors by earning the prestigious President's Award. In 1964, he received the degree of Master of Arts in International Affairs from George Washington University's School of Public and International Affairs in Washington, D.C.\n\nDenton served as a United States Naval Aviator during the Vietnam War. In February 1965, he became the Prospective Commanding Officer of Attack Squadron Seventy-Five serving aboard aircraft carrier USS \"Independence\" (CVA-62).\n\nOn July 18, 1965, CDR Denton was piloting his A-6A Intruder jet (BUNO 151577) while leading a twenty-eight aircraft bombing mission over North Vietnam off the \"Independence\" which was stationed in the South China Sea. He and LTJG Bill Tschudy, his bombardier/navigator, were forced to eject from their plane after it was hit by enemy antiaircraft fire and went down out of control over the village of Thanh Hoa near Hanoi in North Vietnam. Both men were quickly captured and taken prisoner.\n\nDenton and Tschudy were held as prisoners of war for almost eight years, four of which were spent in solitary confinement. Denton was notable for his leadership during the Hanoi March in July 1966, when he and over 50 American prisoners were paraded through the streets of Hanoi and beaten by North Vietnamese civilians. Denton\nis best known from this period of his life for the 1966 televised press conference in which he was forced to participate as an American POW by his North Vietnamese captors. He used the opportunity to send a distress message confirming for the first time to the U.S. Office of Naval Intelligence and Americans that American POWs were being tortured in North Vietnam. He repeatedly blinked his eyes in Morse code during the interview, spelling out \"T-O-R-T-U-R-E\". He was also questioned about his support for the U.S. war effort in Vietnam, to which he replied: \"I don't know what is happening, but whatever the position of my government is, I support it fully. Whatever the position of my government, I believe in it, yes sir. I am a member of that government, and it is my job to support it, and I will as long as I live.\" While a prisoner, he was promoted to the rank of captain. Denton was later awarded the Navy Cross and other decorations for heroism while a prisoner of war.\nDenton was put in the \"Hanoi Hilton\" and the \"Zoo\" prison and prison camp and \"Little Vegas\" and \"Alcatraz\" prisons. In \"Alcatraz\", he became part of a group of American POWs known as the \"Alcatraz Gang\". The group consisted of George Coker, Harry Jenkins, Sam Johnson, George McKnight, James Mulligan, Howard Rutledge, Robert Shumaker, James Stockdale (he graduated with Denton from the Naval Academy), Ronald Storz, and Nels Tanner. They were put in \"Alcatraz\" and solitary confinement to separate them from other POWs because their strong resistance led other POWs in resisting their captors. \"Alcatraz\" was a special facility in a courtyard behind the North Vietnamese Ministry of National Defense, located about one mile away from Hoa Lo Prison. Each of the American POWs spent day and night in windowless cells mostly in legcuffs.\n\nOn February 12, 1973, both Denton and Tschudy were released in Hanoi by the North Vietnamese along with numerous other American POWs during Operation Homecoming. Stepping off the jet back home in uniform, Denton said: \"We are honored to have had the opportunity to serve our country under difficult circumstances. We are profoundly grateful to our Commander-in-Chief and to our nation for this day. God bless America.\" The speech has a prominent place in the 1987 documentary, \"\".\n\nDenton was briefly hospitalized at the Naval Hospital Portsmouth, Virginia, and then was assigned to the Commander, Naval Air Forces, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, from February to December 1973. In January 1974, Denton became the commandant of the Armed Forces Staff College in Norfolk (now known as the Joint Forces Staff College), to June 1977. His final assignment was as special assistant to the Chief of Naval Education and Training at Naval Air Station Pensacola, Florida, from June 1977 until his retirement from the Navy on November 1, 1977 with the rank of Rear Admiral.\n\nHe wrote his book in 1976, \"When Hell was in Session\", detailing his detention as an American POW in North Vietnam, which was made into a television movie of the same title in 1979, starring Hal Holbrook as Denton.\n\nDenton accepted a position with the Christian Broadcasting Network (CBN) as a consultant to CBN founder and friend, Pat Robertson, from 1978 to 1980. During his time with CBN, both Denton and Robertson repeatedly expressed support for the Contra forces in Nicaragua. In 1981, he founded and chaired the National Forum Foundation. Through his National Forum Foundation, Denton arranged shipments of donated goods to countries in need of aid.\n\nIn 1980, Denton ran as a Republican for a U.S. Senate seat from his home state of Alabama. In the primary election, he easily defeated former U.S. Congressman Armistead Selden, who was the candidate of choice of the Republican establishment in the state. He then achieved a surprise victory with 50.15 percent of the vote in November over Democratic candidate Jim Folsom Jr., who himself had defeated the incumbent, Donald W. Stewart, in the Democratic primary election. In doing so, Denton became the first retired Navy admiral elected to the United States Senate. He was the second retired Navy admiral to serve in the U.S. Senate as Admiral Thomas C. Hart, U.S. Navy (ret.) of Connecticut served from November 15, 1945 to November 5, 1946.\n\nHe was the first Republican to be popularly elected in Alabama since the direct election of U.S. Senators began in 1913, the first Republican senator since Reconstruction to represent Alabama in the U.S. Senate, and the first Catholic to be elected to statewide office in Alabama. Compiling a conservative voting record in the U.S. Senate, Denton was featured in a 1981 article in \"Time Magazine\" called \"An Admiral from Alabama\".\n\nAs a Senator, Denton was most outspoken on issues related to the preservation of the nuclear family, a goal that he sought to pursue through a $30 million bill to push chastity among teenagers. Denton also chaired a subcommittee on internal security and terrorism, which focused on communist and Soviet threats. By the mid-1980s, he told Time magazine at the outset of the decade, \"We will have less national security than we had proportionately when George Washington’s troops were walking around barefoot at Valley Forge.\" \n\nAdm. Denton was one of a large group of Republican Senators who were swept into office along with the election of Ronald Reagan as the President in 1980. Then in 1986, because of perceived failures in the Reagan Administration (including the Iran-Contra Affair), all but one of these Republicans (see: United States Senate elections, 1986) were voted out of office and replaced by Democrats. The only exception was with Sen. Ron East of North Carolina, who had died in office in early 1986. His temporary replacement was not elected in November, either.\n\nIn 1986, Denton narrowly lost his bid for reelection to the U.S. Senate, receiving 49.72 percent of the vote against U.S. Congressman Richard Shelby, a conservative Democrat.\n\nIn 2007, Denton's first wife and the mother of his seven children, the former Katherine Jane Maury, died after sixty-one years of marriage. He subsequently married Mary Belle Bordone in 2010.\n\nDenton died of complications from a heart ailment at a hospice in Virginia Beach on March 28, 2014, at age 89. He is buried at Arlington National Cemetery with his wife Jane.\n\nDenton's awards and decorations include:\n\nThe President of the United States of America takes pleasure in presenting the Navy Cross to Rear Admiral [then Commander] Jeremiah Andrew Denton Jr. (NSN: 0-485087), United States Navy, for extraordinary heroism while serving as a Prisoner of War in North Vietnam from February 1966 to May 1966. Under constant pressure from North Vietnamese interrogators and guards, Rear Admiral Denton experienced harassment, intimidation and ruthless treatment in their attempt to gain military information and cooperative participation for propaganda purposes. During this prolonged period of physical and mental agony, he heroically resisted cruelties and continued to promulgate resistance policy and detailed instructions. Forced to attend a press conference with a Japanese correspondent, he blinked out a distress message in Morse Code at the television camera and was understood by United States Naval Intelligence. When this courageous act was reported to the North Vietnamese, he was again subjected to severe brutalities. Displaying extraordinary skill, fearless dedication to duty, and resourcefulness, he reflected great credit upon himself, and upheld the highest traditions of the Naval Service and the United States Armed Forces.\n\n"}
{"id": "55688315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55688315", "title": "Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert", "text": "Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert\n\nJesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert is an American musical television special that was broadcast live on NBC on April 1, 2018 (Easter Sunday). Executive produced by Craig Zadan, Neil Meron, Andrew Lloyd Webber, Tim Rice, and Marc Platt, it was a staged concert performance of the 1970 rock opera \"Jesus Christ Superstar\".\n\nThe musical is almost entirely sung-through, with a minimal to no amount of spoken dialogue. The plot is loosely based on the Canonical Gospels' accounts of the last week of the life of Jesus Christ, beginning with the preparation for the arrival of Jesus and his disciples in Jerusalem and ending with the crucifixion. \n\nThe apostle Judas Iscariot is worried that Jesus has become too swept up in the adoration of his followers, rather than focusing on his teachings about taking care of the poor, and that his following has grown too large and outspoken, which could soon provoke the wrath of the Roman empire (\"Heaven on Their Minds\"). Judas also object to Jesus spending his time with Mary Magdalene (\"What's the Buzz / Strange Thing Mystifying\"), who advises Jesus to relax (\"Everything's All Right\"). Judas's fears prove justified as priests Caiaphas, Annas and more gather and agree that Jesus and his movement must be crushed (\"This Jesus Must Die\"). Jesus enters Jerusalem filled with exaltation (\"Hosanna\") until he discovers that his temple has become overrun with unscrupulous merchants and money lenders. Overwhelmed by a throng of people needing his assistance, he tells them to heal themselves, and his follower Mary Magdalene attempts to calm him. Fearing that Jesus' movement is getting out of control, Judas goes to the Priests and tells them where Jesus will be the following night. The Priests pay him with 30 pieces of silver. Judas arrives at Jesus' location with Roman soldiers and identifies Jesus by kissing him on the cheek. The soldiers arrest Jesus and send him to Caiaphas, then Pontius Pilate, King Herod, and finally back to Pilate, who condemns him to death on the cross.\n\nThe musical numbers from the track list of the soundtrack.\nOn May 10, 2017, it was announced that NBC had selected \"Jesus Christ Superstar\" to be their next live musical event. Executive producers were expected to include Craig Zadan, Neil Meron, Marc Platt, Andrew Lloyd Webber, and Tim Rice. In December 2017, it was reported that British theater director David Leveaux would direct and that the show would be performed in front of a live audience at the Marcy Avenue Armory in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.\n\nMembers of the creative crew included costume designer Paul Tazewell and choreographer Camille A. Brown.\n\nIn December 2017, it was announced that Alice Cooper had been cast as King Herod and John Legend had been cast in the title role of Jesus Christ. The following month, it was announced that Sara Bareilles would play Mary Magdalene. In February 2018, it was announced that Brandon Victor Dixon, Norm Lewis, Ben Daniels, Jason Tam, Jin Ha and Erik Grönwall had been cast as Judas, Caiaphas, Pontius Pilate, Peter, Annas and Simon Zealotes, respectively.\n\nThe production included a cast of forty-four actors, including Joel Perez and Lauren Zakrin, and additional dancers.\n\nThe live production included an on-camera audience of about 1,500 people. Some of these extras lined two sides of the stage and formed a mosh pit effect. The production was expected to utilize as many as twelve cameras to film the special. In addition, a full dress rehearsal performance took place on Saturday, March 31, 2018 in front of an invited audience and was recorded. In the event of any difficulties during the live broadcast, the recording served as an emergency backup. It was ultimately not needed.\n\nOn January 7, 2018, NBC aired the first teaser trailer for the special during their broadcast of the 75th Golden Globe Awards.\n\n\"Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert\" has been met with an overwhelmingly positive response from critics since it aired. On the review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, the production holds a 100% approval rating with an average rating of 8.5 out of 10 based on 23 reviews. The website's critical consensus reads, \"Shaking up traditional religious and musical iconography, \"Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert\" is a sight to be heard, superbly infiltrating the classic source material with originality, rock legend star power, and soulful depth.\" Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the production a score of 81 out of 100 based on 13 critics, indicating \"universal acclaim\".\n\nIn a positive review, \"The New York Times\"s Noel Murray praised the special saying, \"A conceptual and artistic triumph, NBC’s live telecast of \"Jesus Christ Superstar\" on Easter Sunday may have finally justified the recent live musical fad on network TV. Some technical flubs and one mixed-bag lead performance aside, the production was genuinely thrilling, taking chances with the staging of a classic but controversial Broadway show, much more daring than previous live musical broadcasts like \"The Sound of Music\" or \"Peter Pan\".\" Offering similar acclaim, \"The Hollywood Reporter\"s David Rooney said, \"But here's the thing: This was a phenomenally balanced production of \"Jesus Christ Superstar\", in which star power was equaled by depth of feeling and characterization in all the principals. And the immediacy of television, with close-ups capable of bringing us in tight on the performers' faces, gave Jesus and Mary Magdalene a complexity that often is missing from conventional productions.\" Lorraine Ali of \"The Los Angeles Times\" also lauded the production saying, \"The show was a collision of religion and theater and pop culture that could have been one holy mess. But by the grace of God, or maybe a great cast and lots and lots of expert staging, a great musical became a great TV production.\" In a more mixed review, Maureen Ryan of \"Variety\" said, \"This musical threw together glitter, sequins, leather, writhing hotties, a few big performances pitched to the last row, and camerawork that often felt as though it was hopped up on too many lattes. Actually, the ragged edges of a unifying concept did emerge over the course of the NBC musical’s two-hour-and-20-minute running time: If its philosophy could be summed up in one word, “excess” would just about cover it. That’s not necessarily a bad thing. But this live show was a lot.\"\n\nThe production was watched by a total of 9.6 million viewers and earned a 1.7 rating in adults 18-49 in Live + Same Day. It was the most-viewed program of the night of both network and cable programming.\n\nOn March 28, 2018, a one-hour special titled \"Andrew Lloyd Webber: Tribute to a Superstar\" premiered on NBC in honor of Webber's 70th birthday and to promote the coming premiere of \"Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert\". In the special, Webber was interviewed by Glenn Close, John Legend, and Lin-Manuel Miranda. It also included appearances by some of the performers from \"Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert\" in various rehearsal scenes from the show.\n\nThe special was executive produced and directed by Brad Lachman and written and produced by Matt Lachman. Interviews were conducted at Sardi's restaurant, Power Station recording studio, and the Renaissance Hotel Times Square. Production companies involved in the special included Brad Lachman Productions and Universal Television.\n\nAn official soundtrack was released by Sony Masterworks, digitally on April 6, 2018, and physically on April 27, 2018.\n\nThe album debuted at number 46 on the US \"Billboard 200\", earning 13,000 album-equivalent units in its first week according to Nielsen Music, with over 11,000 units coming from traditional album sales. It also debuted at number 3 the same week on the Soundtracks chart, as well as at number 14 on the Top Album Sales chart.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15922", "title": "July 27", "text": "July 27\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5979506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5979506", "title": "List of assassinated Indian politicians", "text": "List of assassinated Indian politicians\n\nThis is an incomplete list of Important Indian politicians who were assassinated mainly for ideological or political reasons.\n!Name\n!Year \n!Place\n!Position\n!Party\n!Ostensible Reason\n"}
{"id": "29423997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29423997", "title": "Ludi Piscatorii", "text": "Ludi Piscatorii\n\nThe Ludi Piscatorii was a Roman holiday celebrated on 7 June in the 3rd century BC in honor of Father Tiber. The holiday was celebrated by the fishermen of Rome; the celebration was directed by the Praetor. All fish that were caught on this day were sacrificed by fire at the Temple of Vulcan\n"}
{"id": "20188232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20188232", "title": "Martin Eisenstadt", "text": "Martin Eisenstadt\n\nThe Martin Eisenstadt hoax is an elaborate scheme of filmmakers Dan Mirvish and Eitan Gorlin that involved the creation of a fictional \"talking head\", Martin Eisenstadt, who was quoted by numerous major news outlets (such as the Los Angeles Times and MSNBC), as well as countless blogs, all of which failed to verify his actual existence. \"Eisenstadt\" claimed to be the source of commentary about Sarah Palin in the wake of John McCain's 2008 presidential campaign. Mirvish and Gorlin have since written a satirical novel called \"I Am Martin Eisenstadt: One Man's (Wildly Inappropriate) Adventures with the Last Republicans\" for Farrar, Straus and Giroux . The book was written under Eisenstadt's pseudonym and purports to be a first-person memoir of Eisenstadt's experience with the McCain/Palin campaign, including buying Palin's wardrobe. In the book, the Eisenstadt character denies rumors that he does not exist.\n\nIn 2007, Mirvish and Gorlin created short videos for YouTube, with Gorlin playing a parking valet, Sheldon, who spewed effusive (and offensive) praise of then-presidential candidate Rudolph Giuliani. The original short film \"Sheldon\" played at the U.S. Comedy Arts Film Festival in Aspen in 2007. After Giuliani's campaign ceased, the character was modified to be a Sr. Fellow at the \"Harding Institute for Freedom and Democracy\", a fictional entity named in jest for one of the least-respected US presidents, Warren G. Harding. The pair created a website for the Harding Institute, created the character of the commentator, dubbed Martin Eisenstadt, played again by Gorlin.\n\nDan Mirvish is a former speechwriter for Democratic Senator Tom Harkin. He is also a feature film director and co-founder of the Slamdance Film Festival. Gorlin was nominated for the Someone to Watch Award at the 2003 IFP Independent Spirit Awards for his film \"The Holy Land\".\n\nThe first appearance of Martin Eisenstadt was in a video of a phony interview, purportedly on Al Iraqiya, describing his plan to build casinos in the Green Zone. The report was accepted at face value and blogged by Jonathan Stein of Mother Jones, but correctly and tentatively identified as satire by the Monthly Review. By this point, Brazilian-based golf blogger William Wolfram had already extensively researched Eisenstadt and concluded he did not exist.\n\nDuring and after the election campaign, several hoaxes perpetrated by Eisenstadt (Gorlin and Mirvish) were reported by news organizations and blogs as truthful, including reports that Joe the Plumber was a cousin of Charles Keating and that Paris Hilton's family strongly protested the McCain campaign's comparison of Barack Obama to Hilton.\n\nAfter election day, 2008, it was widely reported that a senior McCain advisor had stated that Palin was unaware that Africa was a continent rather than a country. After the story broke, Mirvish and Gorlin released a video where Eisenstadt, reportedly a McCain policy adviser, made that statement. Mirvish and Gorlin said that they did not invent the story but only took the credit for it after it broke as being the source. Several mainstream news outlets publicised this attribution.\n\nThe AP, noting that \"Eisenstadt's 'work' had been quoted and debunked before,\" reported that the hoax \"was limited to the identity of the source in the story about Palin - not the Fox News story itself.\" Mirvish himself, in a BBC interview, admits that they falsely took credit as being the source, but stated that the story itself could be true.\n\nAccording to Mirvish it would have taken \"about 20 seconds of searching to realize Eisenstadt was a hoax.\" \"With the 24-hour news cycle they rush into anything they can find\" added Mirvish. The hoax revealed lack of fact-checking by news outlets such as MSNBC. An MSNBC spokesman stated that someone in the newsroom received the item in an e-mail, and that no vetting was ever done on it.\n\nIn May 2009, \"Time\" reported that Eisenstadt was one of the \"elite Twitterati\" who attended the White House Correspondents Dinner, along with Meghan McCain, Ashton Kutcher, and Newt Gingrich. Time later retracted its original reporting.\n\nMirvish and Gorlin wrote the book \"I Am Martin Eisenstadt: One Man's (wildly inappropriate) Adventures with the Last Republicans\" which was published in November, 2009, by Farrar, Straus and Giroux. The authors went on a book tour that included a Washington, DC, party thrown for them by former President Bill Clinton press secretary Joe Lockhart and other Washington notables including Karen Finney, Matthew Cooper (American journalist) and Michael Feldman.\n\nMirvish and Gorlin's first collaboration was a promo for a video game for Mirvish's film Open House. The character they created turned into Sheldon, the bitter valet, for the eponymously titled short film that screened at the 2007 U.S. Comedy Arts Festival in Aspen. The duo shot seven more similar shorts and posted them anonymously on YouTube as faux Rudolph Giuliani ads during early primary season for the 2008 U.S. Presidential campaign. The Giuliani campaign denied any involvement with the ads. The ads created their own controversy when the consulting company who had produced the Swift Boat ads of 2004 was erroneously blamed for them under the assumption they were some sort of dirty tricks campaign by one of Giuliani's rivals.\n\nThe filmmakers had planned to develop The Bitter Valet into a TV series, but due to the 2008 Writers Guild Strike, they shelved that plan and came up with the Martin Eisenstadt character. The first thing they filmed with Eisenstadt was the alleged interview on Iraqi TV, which was actually filmed in Mirvish's garage in California.\n\nDuring the fall of 2008, Gorlin and Mirvish filmed a fake 40-minute BBC documentary entitled \"The Last Republican,\" which they then posted on YouTube in 10 parts. They also filmed four rebuttals allegedly from Martin Eisenstadt in Washington, DC, in which Eisenstadt threatened to sue the documentarian and the BBC for taking him out of context. In fact, the filmmakers later admitted that \"The Last Republican\" was actually a pilot for a television show they were developing.\n\nIn April, 2010, Mirvish and Gorlin created an award called \"The Harding Prize for Best Crafted Apology\" named after President Warren G. Harding, who once apologized for his presidency by saying \"I am not fit for this office and should never have been here.\" Awarded in a ceremony at American University, Gorlin (as Martin Eisenstadt) presented the Harding Prizes in several categories: Rahm Emanuel won for Politics, Tiger Woods for Sports, Usher for Entertainment, and Adam Carolla won in the best Twitter apology category.\n"}
{"id": "45666688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45666688", "title": "Operation Rainbow (Syrian Civil War)", "text": "Operation Rainbow (Syrian Civil War)\n\nOperation Rainbow was an operation launched by the Syrian Army, supported by Hezbollah and other allied militias, during the Syrian Civil War, following a successful operation which led to the military encircling Aleppo from the east side and reaching the city's northern approach. The aim of the operation, as the previous one, was to encircle Aleppo and cut rebel supply lines into the city, thus besieging rebel-held areas.\n\nOn 7 December, the Army captured the Breij area, on the northeastern outskirts of the city, and advanced towards the al-Owayji area to the west and the al-Enzarat area to the south. The next day, the Army moved around Handarat and captured the al-Hajal and al-Majbal districts overlooking Hanano, Haydariya and Duwayr al-Jandul. After this, government forces entered the Baya’adeen district, taking up positions in its southern part.\n\nOn 11 December, government forces recaptured territory in the Stone Quarries in the southern part of Breij they lost the previous week. The military further advanced past the Stone Quarries and pushed south towards the Hanano district. The fighting over the previous seven days left more than 60 rebels dead, according to a military source. The next day, the Army captured the Wood Factory near the Jandoul roundabout, and established positions near the Saraya Night Club. By the end of the day, the military reportedly had fire control over both the Ba'edin and Jandoul roundabouts on the Castello Road.\n\nOn 14 December, the Army advanced into and captured the al-Mallah area, with further attempts by the military to capture the area west of al-Mallah and thus finally cut the Castello Road. Two hours later, according to a pro-government source, the Army captured the neighboring Mara’ashli Farms. Government forces also advanced and captured the southern and western parts of the Handarat city district, closing in on Handarat hill which overlooks the Castello Road. 34 rebels and nine soldiers were killed during the day. The advances brought government forces within a few hundred meters of surrounding Aleppo. More fighting the next day left 14 rebels dead, as the Army captured a hill overlooking the rebel supply line.\n\nOn 17 December, 16 soldiers were killed in fighting in the al-Mallah area where the rebels captured eight buildings, while the Army recaptured Aghob hill and the al-Fawaz area of Breij. Al-Arabiya reported government forces were close to capturing Handarat hill and completing the siege, while the pro-government Al-Masdar News agency reported the troops had already captured all of the remaining hills along the Castello Road and were focusing on the main roundabout. At the end of the day, the military made another advance in the Handarat area and by 19 December had captured all or a part of the Handarat district.\n\nOn 22 December, the rebels recaptured the industrial plants in the northern part of the Handarat district, however they lost it again one week later after an assault by Army and Hezbollah troops. By 1 January 2015, the military had captured 16 plants in the Al-Shahel area of the Handarat district.\n\nOn 5 January, the rebels recaptured the Majbal (Sawmills) area of al-Brej after fighting that killed or wounded no less than 20 soldiers. They also captured the southern entrance of the stone quarries known as al-Misat, forcing government troops to retreat to the north. Later, it was reported the rebels managed to seize the al-Manasher al-Breij area and were trying to advance and take control over al-Brej Hill with which they could seize the military supply road from the Aleppo Central Prison to the Handarat and al-Mallah areas. The next day, the rebels reportedly took control over the al-Akhdar Mosque, a mill and the al-Tawattor al-Aali area of al-Brej.\n\nOn 8 January, the Army and pro-government militias conducted a counter-attack against areas seized by the rebels in previous days.\n\nOn 22 January, the rebels reportedly advanced in al-Mallah and Sifat areas and two days later took control over some positions on al-Brej Hill. They also managed to advance in the al-Brej area.\n\nOn 3 February, the rebels captured al-Misat hill at the north-eastern entrance to the city. However, the next day government forces recaptured the area after opposition fighters were forced to retreat due to heavy artillery fire.\n\nOn 16 February, a large military armored convoy arrived in Aleppo, as reinforcements from Hama, to complete the siege of the city. The next morning, government forces launched an offensive from Sifat. The battle started after hundreds of government fighters infiltrated the three villages of Bashkuwi, Ratian and Hardatain before dawn and encircled rebel positions in them. At 06:00 hours, the fighting started and in less than half an hour the Army and NDF captured Hardatain, while resistance continued in the other two villages. Still, around noon, both Bashkuwi and Ratian had also been captured and the Army blocked the main rebel supply route leading into Aleppo city. During the attack, according to the SOHR, 36 civilians and 13 rebels were massacred by the Army and Hezbollah. The Army then advanced from Ratian towards Bayanoon and was fighting on the road between the two villages. At the same time, the military launched a push in two areas of Aleppo city itself and advanced, capturing many buildings in the Zahraa district. Fighting also reached the village of Ma'arasta, west of Hardatain, and the Army captured the village of Dwer al-Zaytoun. At this point, the rebels launched a counter-attack to recapture the ground they lost and Hardatain was contested once again, while clashes continued near Ratian. The initial advance brought government troops to within four kilometers of the government-held towns of Nubl and Al-Zahraa, which had been besieged by rebel forces for almost two years. In the evening, a group of 80 soldiers managed to reach the two towns. The offensive aimed to completely surround Aleppo within a week.\n\nEarly on 18 February, the rebels recaptured Ratian, or at least most of it, while fighting continued around Bashkuwi and Hardatain. Later, a military source reported the Army captured Kafr Tunah, east of Dwer al-Zaytoun. The next day, the rebels recaptured most of Hardatain. However, clashes in the village continued and government fighters were resupplied by helicopters. Fighting was also still ongoing near Ratian and Bashkuwi and in Dwer al-Zaytoun.\n\nOn 20 February, according to SOHR, the rebels captured the Al-Mallah area, while clashes persisted around Bashkuwi, Ratian and Hardatain. According to Al Mayadeen, the Army still controlled most of the area, with rebels capturing only two out of 48 farms at Al-Mallah. Later, SOHR reported more fighting at Al-Mallah, while in the evening the rebels fully secured Hardatain. On 21 February, correspondent Elijah J. Magnier confirmed that all villages but Bashkuy were recaptured by the rebels, with preparations being made by the Army to inject more troops into the battle. At the same time, the Army activated the front south of Aleppo city by transferring troops from the province of Hama.\nThe Army captured Al-Qalba’at village in the Khanesser area and a number of buildings at the Al-Zaytuni Chicken Farms near Mount Azzan.\n\nThe four-day battle in the northern countryside of Aleppo left 152 soldiers and 131 rebels dead, while 67 soldiers and 40 rebels were captured.\n\nOn 9 March, opposition forces launched an assault on Handarat, north of Aleppo, after reportedly noticing confusion in the ranks of government troops following the February fighting. It was initially reported opposition forces captured Handarat, north of Aleppo. However, later it was reported by opposition sources the rebels managed to capture only 40–50% of the village, while the Army remained in control of the northern portion of Handarat. A military source stated they still controlled 80% of Handarat.\n\nOn 18 March, after almost 10 days of fighting, the military fully expelled the rebels from Handarat and re-established control of the village. They then reportedly pushed back into the eastern part of al-Mallah farms. According to a military source, 76 government fighters and 304 rebels were killed during the previous two weeks of fighting at Handarat and Bashkuy. The next day, government forces also recaptured al-Madafa hill and a farm around Handarat, as well as the Halabi Farms and Nuqat al-Isamat, west of Handarat.\n\nOn 20 March, the military reportedly captured the Al-Ghannam Farms, west of the Halabi Farms.\n\nOn 23 March, fighting erupted around Dwer al-Zaytoun and Bashkuy after a Turkish suicide car-bomber from the al-Nusra front detonated himself in the area. The rebels reportedly advanced near Dwer al-Zaytoun.\n\nBy the end of March, the government offensive was considered to had fizzled out.\n\n"}
{"id": "1518627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1518627", "title": "Palace Theatre, Manchester", "text": "Palace Theatre, Manchester\n\nThe Palace Theatre, Manchester, is one of the main theatres in Manchester, England. It is situated on Oxford Street, on the north-east corner of the intersection with Whitworth Street. The Palace and its sister theatre the Opera House on Quay Street are operated by the same parent company, Ambassador Theatre Group. The original capacity of 3,675 has been reduced to its current 1,955.\n\nThe theatre, originally known as the Grand Old Lady of Oxford Street, opened on 18 May 1891, having been designed by the architect Alfred Darbyshire at a cost of £40,500. The interior of the theatre was renovated under by Bertie Crewe in 1913, the renovation took seven months and the theatre reopened with a reduced seating capacity of 2,600.\n\nIn September 1940 the theatre took a direct hit from a German bomb during the Manchester Blitz.\n\nIn the 1970s audience numbers declined, as they did in many live venues, and it was threatened with closure. The Arts Council supported it in the 1980s, and after major internal refurbishment and an enlarged stage facility, it was run by a charitable trust, Norwest Holdings.\n\nIt is now one of the best equipped and popular theatres outside London. In its repertoire it hosts major touring musicals often with major celebrities and performances of opera and ballet along with various other comedy acts and one night concerts.\n\nIn 2008 the Royal Opera House and Manchester City Council began planning stages a new development known as Royal Opera House, Manchester. The proposal would have seen the Palace Theatre refurbished, to create a theatre capable of staging productions by both the Royal Ballet and Royal Opera. It was intended that the Royal Opera House would take residence of the theatre for an annual 18-week season, staging 16 performances by the Royal Opera, 28 performances by the Royal Ballet and other small-scale productions. A year later The Lowry sent an open letter to the then Secretary of State for Culture, Olympics, Media and Sport, Ben Bradshaw, Arts Council England, Manchester City Council and the ROH, calling for the scheme, in its current form, to be scrapped. In 2010 it was announced that the project was being shelved as part of larger arts-funding cuts.\n\nThe opening presentation, to a capacity audience, was the ballet \"Cleopatra\"; however its initial presentations failed to gain popular support and for several years it struggled to make a profit. Only when it broadened its scope to include more popular performers was it a resounding success. During the early part of the 20th century it came into its own, with artists such as Danny Kaye, Gracie Fields, Charles Laughton, Judy Garland, Noël Coward and Laurel and Hardy making appearances.\n\nContinuing a long tradition of tour openings in Manchester, the hit Broadway and West End musical \"The Producers\" opened at the theatre in February 2007 for a run until May when it continued on tour around the UK. Peter Kay starred as Roger Debris for the Manchester dates.\n\nOther notable shows to have played successful seasons at the Palace Theatre include, amongst others, the regional premiere of \"Les Misérables\" which ran for 13 months from 1992–93, regional premiere of \"Miss Saigon\" in 2001, \"Chitty Chitty Bang Bang\" in 2006 and \"Mamma Mia!\" over the 2006/07 Christmas season. Broadway musical \"The Wedding Singer\" had its UK premiere at the theatre in 2008 and in December 2008 to March 2009 the theatre hosted a season of the UK tour of \"Mary Poppins\", one of only six theatres in the country to accommodate the tour, both events further cementing the theatre's reputation as the flagship venue of the North of England. In July 2009, during the Manchester International Festival, the theatre, in association with Opera North, staged the world première of Rufus Wainwright's opera \"Prima Donna\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21586084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21586084", "title": "Pnai Plus", "text": "Pnai Plus\n\nPnai Plus (, lit. \"Leisure Plus\") is an Israeli magazine published weekly, which covers the world of entertainment and television worldwide and is a local TV guide. Created in 1989 and owned by Yedioth Ahronoth, the magazine contains sections such as cinema, music, culture, and food.\n\n"}
{"id": "506050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=506050", "title": "Pursuit of Nazi collaborators", "text": "Pursuit of Nazi collaborators\n\nThe pursuit of Nazi collaborators refers to the post-World War II pursuit and apprehension of individuals who were not citizens of the Third Reich at the outbreak of World War II and collaborated with the Nazi regime during the war. Hence, this article does not cover former members of the NSDAP and their fate after the war.\n\nThere were a number of motives for the apprehension of suspected collaborators. The main motives were: revenge for those murdered, especially those murdered on ethnic grounds in the Holocaust (principally among Jews, Poles, and Russians); a desire after the war to see those responsible face justice, and be categorised as criminals by a court of law (See Nuremberg Trials); a means of ensuring that criminal acts done were brought to light and placed on the official record, with evidence, so that they could never be disproven (some of the acts being so unthinkable that denial was plausible); widespread sense that genocide of whole communities and cultures on such a scale was intolerable and must not be left unprosecuted even despite the inadequacy of existing laws; and fear that a \"Nazi underground\" of some kind existed, such as the mythical ODESSA, which could allow the enemy to somehow regroup for their proclaimed Fourth Reich. \n\nThe pursuit took many forms, both individual and organised. Several organisations and individuals (famous Nazi hunters) pursued ex-Nazis or Nazi collaborators who allegedly engaged in war crimes or crimes against humanity. The pursuit took varied forms such as individuals who reported they saw someone who they recognised, who had now assumed a false identity intent on slipping back into civilian life undetected. Specific individuals were named and sought by groups or governments for their crimes during the war.\n\nOthers were subject to after-war spontaneous retaliation committed by populations within occupied countries, which in some areas led to \"witch hunts\" for those suspected of having been collaborators, where vigilantism and \"summary justice\", were common. After a first period of spontaneous pursuit, provisional governments took the matter into their own hands and brought suspected criminals to court. The Nuremberg Trial in Germany judged only the highest German Nazi authorities, and each country prosecuted and sentenced their own collaborationists. Pierre Laval in France was judged and sentenced to death, while Philippe Pétain was also sentenced to death, but Charles de Gaulle later commuted his sentence into a life condemnation. Government action took the form of investigation and interrogation for people suspected to be such. For example: U.S. DOJ Office of Special Investigations.\n\nInfiltration of Nazi support and escape organisations (the most famous one being the ODESSA network and its various \"ratlines\") and those believed to be aiding and abetting them. However, many suspected war criminals were also given amnesty, and some reached high positions in post-war administrations (e.g. Maurice Papon, who became Police Prefect of Paris in charge during the Algerian War (1954–62); he was blamed for the 1961 Paris massacre). Others were never even tried such as Robert de Foy who resumed being head of the Belgian State Security Service 1945-1958.\n\nIn 1960 Adolf Eichmann was captured by Mossad agents in Argentina and smuggled into Israel. Eichmann provided a location in Argentina where Josef Mengele had been but Mossad was unable to find him; by 1961 Mengele had moved to Brazil. In early October 1999, Nazi hunter Efraim Zuroff tracked Ustasha Dinko Šakić, the former commandant of Jasenovac concentration camp (nicknamed the \"Auschwitz of the Balkans\"). Sakic had lived in Argentina for more than 50 years. He was extradited to Croatia and sentenced by a Zagreb court to 20 years' imprisonment for his crimes.\n\nLatvia applied to Australia to extradite Konrads Kalejs, allegedly a senior officer in the pro-Nazi Arajs Commando, but he died on 8 November 2001 before he could be extradited. Kalejs migrated to Australia in 1950 and took citizenship. Hungary applied for the extradition of Charles Zentai from Australia. He was accused of the murder of Peter Balazs, an 18-year-old Jewish man, in Budapest in November 1944, while serving in the Hungarian Army.\n\nBelgium imprisoned Belgian nationals who had collaborated with the Nazis and executed some. One Belgian to be sentenced to execution was Pierre Daye, however he was one of the first Nazi collaborators to escape Europe, and unusually by plane. He fled to Argentina with the help of Charles Lescat, also collaborator of \"Je suis partout\". Once in Argentina he attended a meeting organised by Juan Perón in the \"Casa Rosada\" during which a network (colloquially called ratlines) was created, to organise the escape of collaborators and former Nazis. On 17 June 1947, Belgium requested his extradition from Argentina, however the Argentine Government ignored this request. Now secure in his freedom, Pierre Daye resumed his writing activities, becoming the editor of an official Perónist review.\n\nHenri de Man was one of the leading Belgian socialist theoreticians of his period, who collaborated with Nazi Germany during World War II. After the liberation of Belgium, he crossed the border to Switzerland. He was convicted \"in absentia\" of treason after the war. He died June 20, 1953, together with his wife, in a collision with a train in Murten, Switzerland.\n\nAlbert Luykx fled to the Republic of Ireland in 1948 and became an Irish citizen in 1954.\n\nActions against Nazi collaborators in Czechoslovakia, real or alleged, had two significant forms, by judiciary or by mob action. Immediately after the liberation of Czechoslovakia by Soviet and American armies, in an atmosphere of chaos, wild chases began. Individual acts of revenge, mob violence, and simply criminal acts motivated by the possibility to rob or loot targets, occurred. In some places were conducted, by organised groups of self-styled partisans, violence which resembled what is today known as ethnic cleansing. In most places this stopped when the provisional Czech government and local authorities took power. Other forms included legal action, undertaken by the state administration, after the war, until the regular Czech parliament was established. President Beneš ruled by issuing , which were later ratified by parliament.\n\nBy decree \"5/1945\", property of untrustworthy persons was put under national administration. Untrustworthy were considered German and Hungarian nationals, and people who were active in destruction of the Czechoslovak state and its democratic government, supported Nazi occupation by any means, or were members of organisations considered fascist or collaborator. By the same decree, property of people of German and Hungarian nationality, who could prove they were anti-Nazi, could be returned to them.\n\nBy decree \"12/1945 Sb.\", farm property of German and Hungarian nationals or citizens was confiscated, unless they could prove active resistance against Nazism. Property of \"traitors, and enemies of the republic\" was confiscated, regardless of nationality or citizenship. By decree \"16/1945 Sb.\", special tribunals were started. These people's courts had right to sentence to long term imprisonment, life sentence or death. Prosecutions varied from verbal support to those who had committed crimes against humanity, no prosecution was based on ethnicity. By \"33/1945 Sb.\" people of German and Hungarian nationality or ethnicity lost their Czechoslovakian citizenship. However, they had right to apply for renewal.\n\nMost problematic was the law \"115/1946\", concerning resistance to the Nazi regime, which shifted limit of immunity to the year 1946, effectively amnestying all crimes, acts of individual revenge and atrocities against Germans and Hungarians long after the war.\n\nPeople who lost Czechoslovakian citizenship and failed to apply or did not get it were transferred to Germany, many through the transfer camp established at Terezín, near the Theresienstadt concentration camp.\n\nIn the Estonian war crimes trials of 1961 and 1962, several collaborators were sentenced for participation in the Estonian holocaust. Many of the accused escaped punishment by escaping into exile or by suicide. The infamous Karl Linnas was finally deported by the United States and died in Leningrad while awaiting retrial.\n\nAfter the liberation, France was briefly swept by a wave of executions of suspected collaborators. Women who were suspected of having romantic liaisons with Germans or, more often, of being German prostitutes, were publicly humiliated by having their heads shaved. Those who had engaged in the black market were also stigmatised as \"war profiteers\" (\"profiteurs de guerre\"). However, the Provisional Government of the French Republic (GPRF, 1944–46) quickly reestablished order and brought collaborators before the courts. Many of the convicted were later granted amnesty under the Fourth Republic (1946–1954), while some civil servants, such as Maurice Papon, succeeded in holding important positions even under Charles de Gaulle and the Fifth Republic (1958 and afterward).\n\nThree periods are identified by historians:\nThe first phase (\"épuration sauvage\") consisted of popular convictions, summary executions, and the shaving of women's heads. Estimates by police prefects made in 1948 and 1952 were that as many as six thousand executions occurred before the liberation of France, and four thousand thereafter. The second phase, \"épuration légale\" (legal purge), began on 26 and 27 June 1944 with Charles de Gaulle's ordinances on the judgment of collaborators by the \"commissions d'épuration\"; the commissions sentenced approximately 120,000 persons. Charles Maurras, the leader of the royalist \"Action française\", was, for example, sentenced to life imprisonment on 25 January 1945. The third phase was more lenient towards collaborators; the trials of Philippe Pétain and the writer, Louis-Ferdinand Céline are examples of actions taken during this phase.\n\nBetween 1944 and 1951, official courts in France sentenced 6,763 people to death (3,910 in absentia) for treason and other offences, but only 791 executions were actually carried out. More common was \"national degradation,\" a loss of face and civil rights, which was meted out to 49,723 people.\n\nPhilippe Pétain, the former head of Vichy France, was charged with treason in July 1945. He was convicted and sentenced to death by firing squad, but Charles de Gaulle commuted the sentence to life imprisonment. Pierre Laval was however, executed after his trial. Most convicts were given amnesty a few years later. In the police, collaborators soon resumed official responsibilities. For example, Maurice Papon, who would be convicted in the 1990s for his role in the Vichy collaborationist government, was in the position of giving orders for the Paris massacre of 1961 as the head of the Parisian police.\n\nThe French members of the Waffen-SS \"Charlemagne\" Division who survived the war were regarded as traitors. Some of the more prominent officers were executed, while the rank-and-file were given prison terms; some of them were given the option of doing time in Indochina (1946–54) with the Foreign Legion instead of prison.\n\nMany war criminals were judged only in the 1980s, including Paul Touvier, Klaus Barbie, Maurice Papon and his deputy Jean Leguay. The last two were both convicted for their roles in the July 1942 \"Rafle du Vel' d'Hiv\", or Vel' d'Hiv Roundup). Famous Nazi hunters Serge and Beate Klarsfeld spent decades trying to bring them to justice. A fair number of collaborationists joined the OAS terrorist movement during the Algerian War (1954–62). Jacques de Bernonville escaped to Quebec, then Brazil. Jacques Ploncard d'Assac became counselor of Salazar in Portugal.\n\nExtrajudicial summary executions were harshly criticised after the war. Circles close to Pétainism advanced the figures of 100,000 such executions, denouncing it as \"Red Terror\", \"anarchy\" or \"blind vengeance. In 1960, journalist Robert Aron estimated the number of summary executions of 40,000, surprising de Gaulle. The figure admitted today by mainstream historians is 10,000. Approximately 9,000 of these 10,000 refer to summary executions, in the whole of the country, including during battle. In absolute numbers, there were fewer legal executions in France than in neighbouring, and much smaller, Belgium, and fewer internments than in Norway or Netherlands.\n\nGreece was under the control of the Third Reich from 1941 to 1944. After the liberation, the country followed a controversial period of denazification. Many collaborators and especially former leaders of the Nazi-held puppet regime in Athens were sentenced to death. General Georgios Tsolakoglou, the first collaborationist prime minister, was tried by the Greek Special Collaborators Court in 1945 and sentenced to death, but his penalty, like most death sentences, was commuted to life imprisonment. The second collaborationist leader, Konstantinos Logothetopoulos, who had fled to Germany after the Wehrmacht's withdrawal, was caught by the US military and was condemned to life imprisonment. In 1951, he was given parole and thus died outside prison. Ioannis Rallis, the third collaborationist prime minister, was tried on a treason charge; the court sentenced him to life imprisonment. However, several lower and middle figures that had collaborated with the Germans, especially members of the Security Battalions and the gendarmerie, were soon released and reinstated in their posts; in the developing Greek Civil War, their anti-Communist credentials were more important than their collaboration. Indeed, in many cases the same people who had collaborated with the Germans and staffed the post-war security establishment persecuted leftist former Resistance members.\n\nFurthermore, during 1945, a Special Court on Collaborators in Ioannina condemned, in absentia, 1,930 Cham collaborators of the Axis to death (decision no. 344/1945). The next year the same court condemned an additional 179. However, the war crimes remained unpunished since the criminals had already fled abroad.\n\nIsrael enacted the Nazis and Nazi Collaborators Punishment Law on 1 August 1950. Between 1950 and 1961, this law was used to prosecute 29 Jewish Holocaust survivors alleged to have been Nazi collaborators. In 1960 Adolf Eichmann was captured by Mossad agents in Argentina and smuggled into Israel. On 15 December 1961, Eichmann was sentenced to death and then executed on 31 May 1962. In 1988 John Demjanjuk was sentenced to death too, but the guilty verdict was later overturned by the Supreme Court on 29 July 1993.\n\nOn 23 February 1965, Latvian aviator and Nazi collaborator Herberts Cukurs was assassinated by the Mossad, the Israeli foreign intelligence service, after being lured to Uruguay under the pretense of starting an aviation business.\n\nVidkun Quisling, the war time Norwegian \"Minister President\", and, among others, Nasjonal Samling leaders Albert Viljam Hagelin and Ragnar Skancke, were convicted and executed by firing squad. A total of 45 people were sentenced to death and 37 were executed (25 Norwegians and 12 Germans). Both at the time and later these sentences were the subject of some debate, since the decision to reintroduce capital punishment to the Norwegian legal system for the post war trials was based on clauses in military law. Capital punishment in the Criminal Code had been abolished in 1904. The decision was made by the exiled Norwegian government in London in 1944, later to be debated three times in the Parliament during the trials, and to be confirmed by the Supreme Court.\n\nIn occupied Poland the status of \"Volksdeutsche\" had many privileges but one big disadvantage: \"Volksdeutsche\" were conscripted into the German Army. The Volksliste had 4 categories. No. 1 and No. 2 were considered ethnic Germans, while No. 3 and No. 4 were ethnic Poles that signed the \"Volksliste\". No. 1 and No. 2 in the Polish areas re-annexed by Germany numbered ~1,000,000 and No. 3 and No. 4 ~1,700,000. In the General Government there were ~120,000 Volksdeutsche.\n\nAfter the war, Volksdeutsche of Polish origins were treated by Poles with special contempt, and also considered traitors according to Polish law. German citizens that remained on territory of Poland became as a group \"personae non gratae\". They had a choice of applying for Polish citizenship or being expelled to Germany. The property that belonged to Germans, German companies and German states, was confiscated by the Polish state along with many other properties in Communist Poland.\n\nGerman owners, as explicitly stated by the law, were not eligible for any compensation. Those who decided to apply became subject to a verification process. At the beginning of the process, many acts of violence against Volksdeutsche took place. However, soon the verification of Volksdeutsche became controlled by the juridical process and was completed in a more controlled manner.\n\nRussian and other Soviet members of the Russian Liberation Army and the Committee for the Liberation of the Peoples of Russia such as Andrey Vlasov were pursued, tried, and were either sent to Gulag prison camps or executed.\n\nMany Soviet Prisoners of War were seen to have collaborated with the Nazis, even if they had done no more than been captured by the Wehrmacht, and spent the war in a camp. Many such unfortunate Soviet citizens were persecuted upon their repatriation to the Soviet Union. In general, after a short trial, if they were not executed, Nazi collaborators were imprisoned in Gulag forced labour camps.\n\nThe Volga German Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic was abolished and Volga Germans were banished from their settlements on the Volga River with many being deported to Kazakhstan or Siberia.\n\nAt the end of the war a number of people were tried for high treason. These included members of the Waffen-SS British Free Corps and William Joyce (Lord Haw-Haw). As agreed at the Yalta Conference, the British handed back many Soviet citizens to the Soviet regime. Some of these were collaborators who had fought in the Russian Liberation Army. In later years there would be a controversy because some of those handed over were White Russians who had never been Soviet citizens. Yugoslavs were handed over to Josip Broz Tito's forces, and many were subsequently left alive.\n\nIn 1948 Viktors Arājs, who was the leader of the eponymous commando unit which helped the Nazis murder the Jews of Latvia and Belarus, had been captured in the British zone of occupied Germany after the war but was allowed to go free. He remained at large until 1979 when West Germany put him on trial. One of Arajs's deputies, Harijs Svikeris, settled in Britain after the war and in the 1990s was thought to be a strong candidate to be prosecuted under the War Crimes Act, but he died before being prosecuted\n\nIn 1961 Ain-Ervin Mere was put on trial for leadership in the murder of 5,000 foreign Jews in Estonia, but his extradition was denied by British authorities. On 1 April 1999, Anthony Sawoniuk was sentenced to life imprisonment after being found guilty of murdering two Jews in the UK's first full Nazi war crimes trial. Sawoniuk had led \"search-and-kill\" police squads to hunt down Jews trying to escape after nearly 3,000 were massacred at Domachevo in Nazi-occupied Belarus during September 1942. He died in prison on 7 November 2005 at the age of 84.\n\nThe reprisals for collaboration with the Nazis were particularly harsh in Yugoslavia, because collaborators were also on the losing side of a \"de facto\" civil war fought on the Yugoslav territory during World War II. The Communists executed many Ustashe, as well as their collaborators, particularly in a series of \"atrocities\" referred to as the Bleiburg \"tragedy\". After the war, the UDBA, Yugoslavia's secret police, was sent overseas to find and eliminate several former Ustashe who fled the country, including the leader of the Ustashe and their pro-Nazi government, Ante Pavelić.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48870647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48870647", "title": "Rebellion of the Alpujarras (1499–1501)", "text": "Rebellion of the Alpujarras (1499–1501)\n\nThe Rebellion of the Alpujarras (1499–1501) was a series of uprisings by the Muslim population of the Kingdom of Granada, Crown of Castile (formerly, the Emirate of Granada) against their Catholic rulers. They began in 1499 in the city of Granada in response to mass forced conversion of the Muslim population to the Catholic faith, which were perceived as violations of the 1491 Treaty of Granada. The uprising in the city quickly died down, but it was followed by more serious revolts in the nearby mountainous area of the Alpujarra. The Catholic forces, on some occasions led personally by King Ferdinand, succeeded in suppressing the revolts and exacted severe punishment on the Muslim population.\n\nThe Catholic rulers used these revolts as a justification to abolish the Treaty of Granada and the rights of the Muslims guaranteed by the treaty. All Muslims of Granada were subsequently required to convert to Catholicism or be expelled, and in 1502 these forced conversions applied to all of Castile. However, they did not apply in the kingdoms of Valencia or Aragón.\n\nMuslims had been present in the Iberian peninsula since the Umayyad conquest of Hispania in the 8th century. By the end of the 15th century, the Emirate of Granada was the last Muslim-ruled area in the peninsula. In January 1492, after a decade-long campaign, Muhammad XII of Granada (also known as \"Boabdil\") surrendered the Emirate to the Catholic forces led by the Catholic monarchs Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile. The Treaty of Granada, signed on November 1491, guaranteed a set of rights to the Muslims of Granada, including religious tolerance and fair treatment, in return for the capitulation.\n\nAt this point, the Muslim population in the former Emirate of Granada was estimated to be between 250,000 and 300,000, making up the majority in the former emirate, and constituting roughly half of the entire Muslim population in Spain.\n\nInitially, the Catholic rulers upheld the treaty. Despite pressure from the Spanish clergy, Ferdinand and the Archbishop of Granada Hernando de Talavera chose a laissez-faire policy towards the Muslims in the hope that interaction with Catholics would make them \"understand the error\" of their faith and abandon it. When Ferdinand and Isabella visited the city in the summer of 1499, they were greeted by enthusiastic crowd, including Muslims.\n\nIn the summer of 1499, Francisco Jiménez de Cisneros, the archbishop of Toledo, arrived in Granada and began working alongside Talavera. Cisneros disliked Talavera's approach and began sending uncooperative Muslims, especially the noblemen, to prison, where they were treated harshly until they agreed to convert. Emboldened by the increase in conversions, Cisneros intensified the efforts and in December 1499 he told Pope Alexander VI that three thousand Muslims converted in a single day. Cisneros' own church council warned that these methods might be a breach of the Treaty, and sixteenth-century hagiographer Álvar Gómez de Castro described the approach as \"methods that were not correct\".\n\nThe increasing mass and forced conversion of Muslims triggered resistance, initially among the urban population of Albayzín (also spelled Albaicín), the Muslim quarter of Granada. The situation was exacerbated by the treatment of \"elches\", former Christians who converted to Islam. Specific clauses in the Treaty of Granada forbade the conversion of the \"elches\" back to Christianity against their will, but the treaty allowed for questionings of such converts by Christian clerics, in the presence of Muslim religious authorities. Cisneros used this 'loophole' to summon \"elches\" and imprison those who refused to return to Christianity. These efforts were often focused on wives of Muslim men – an emphasis that angered the Muslim population who considered this a violation of their families.\n\nOn 18 December 1499, as part of this effort, constable Velasco de Barrionuevo and an assistant were taking a female \"elche\" from Albayzín for such questioning. When they passed through a square, she shouted that she was being forced to become Christian. The officials were then surrounded by a hostile crowd, and the constable was killed and the assistant managed to escape after being sheltered by a local Muslim woman.\n\nThis incident escalated into an open revolt. The residents of Albayzín barricaded the streets and armed themselves. An angry crowd marched to Cisneros' house, apparently for an assault. This crowd later dispersed, but over the following days the revolt become more organized. The population of Albayzín elected their own officials and leaders. In the standoff that ensued, the archbishop Hernando de Talavera and the Captain-General Marquis de Tendilla attempted to defuse the situation through negotiations and gestures of good-will. After ten days, the uprising ended as the Muslims handed in their weapons and handed over the constable's killers, who were promptly executed.\n\nSubsequently, Cisneros was summoned to the court in Seville to account for his actions, facing a furious Ferdinand. Cisneros however argued that it was the Muslims, not him, who breached the Treaty by engaging in armed rebellion. He convinced Ferdinand and Isabella to declare a collective pardon to the rebels, on condition that they convert to Christianity. Cisneros returned to Granada, which now nominally became a fully Christian city.\n\nAlthough the uprising in Albayzín appeared to be put down and Granada was nominally transformed to a Christian city, the rebellion spread to the countryside. The leaders of the Albayzín uprising fled to the Alpujarra mountains. The inhabitants of the mountains, almost exclusively Muslims, had only accepted Christian rule reluctantly. They quickly rose up in revolts against what they regarded as the violation of the terms of the Treaty of Granada, and because they feared they would suffer the same forced conversions as the residents of Albayzín. By February 1500, 80,000 Christian troops were mobilized to put down the rebellion. By March, King Ferdinand arrived to personally direct the operations.\n\nThe rebels were often tactically well led and made use of the mountainous terrain to conduct guerrilla warfare. However, they lacked a central leadership and coherent strategy. This was partly caused by the previous Castilian policy of encouraging and facilitating the Granadan upper class to leave the country or convert and be absorbed into the Christian upper class. The rebels' lack of strategic command allowed the Christian forces to proceed by defeating the rebels in one area separately, then moving on to the next.\n\nThe rebelling towns and villages in the Alpujarra were gradually defeated. Ferdinand personally led the assault on Lanjarón. Rebels who surrendered were generally required to be baptized in order to keep their lives. Towns and villages which had to be taken by assault were treated harshly. One of the most violent episodes occurred in Laujar de Andarax, where the Catholic forces under Louis de Beaumont took 3,000 Muslims prisoner and then slaughtered them. Between two to six hundred women and children who took refuge in a local mosque were blown up with gunpowder. During the capture of Velefique, all the men were killed and the women enslaved. At Nijar and Güéjar Sierra, the whole population was enslaved except children who were kidnapped in order to be brought up as Christians.\n\nOn 14 January 1501, Ferdinand ordered his army to stand down because the uprising seemed to be suppressed. However, further unrest occurred in Sierra Bermeja. An army under Alonso de Aguilar, one of the most distinguished captains of Spain, marched to put down this rebellion. On 16 March, the army's undisciplined troops, eager for pillage, charged the rebels. However, this was met by a fierce counter attack. The result was a catastrophe for the Catholic army; Aguilar himself was killed in battle and the army was nearly annihilated.\n\nHowever, the Muslims soon sued for peace, and Ferdinand, aware of the weakness of the army and the difficulty of mountain warfare, declared that the rebels must choose between exile or baptism. Only those who could pay ten gold \"doblas\" were given passage, and the majority who could not pay had to stay and be baptized. The insurgents surrendered in waves, beginning from the middle of April, since some waited to see whether the first insurgents who surrendered were safe. The emigrants were escorted under guards to the port of Estepona and given passage to North Africa. The remaining were allowed to return home after converting, surrendering their arms and forfeiting their property.\n\nBy the end of 1501, the rebellion was put down. The Muslims were no longer given their rights provided by the Treaty of Granada, and were given the choice of: (1) remain and accept baptism, (2) reject baptism and be enslaved or killed, or (3) be exiled. Given the expensive fee exacted for passage out of Spain, conversion was the only realistic option for them. Therefore, only a decade after the fall of the Emirate of Granada, the entire Muslim population of Granada had nominally become Christian. A proclamation in 1502 extended these forced conversions to the rest of the lands of Castile, even though those outside Granada had nothing to do with the rebellion. The newly converted Muslims were known as \"nuevos cristianos\" (\"new Christians\") or \"moriscos\" (lit. \"Moorish\"). Although they converted to Christianity, they maintained their existing customs, including their language, distinct names, food, dress and even some ceremonies. Many secretly practiced Islam, even as they publicly professed and practiced Christianity. In return, the Catholic rulers adopted increasingly intolerant and harsh policies in order to eradicate these characteristics. This culminated in Philip II's \"Pragmatica\" of 1 January 1567 which ordered the Moriscos to abandon their customs, clothing and language. The \"pragmatica\" triggered the Morisco revolts in 1568–1571.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1295723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1295723", "title": "RoboNexus", "text": "RoboNexus\n\nRoboNexus was a robotics event in the United States held from 2004 to 2005. Over 10,000 attended RoboNexus in 2004.\n\nRoboNexus showcased advances in robotics for both industry representatives and the general public. Notable exhibitors included the company iRobot, creators of Roomba, and NASA.\n\nRobotics Trends also produces an annual RoboBusiness conference.\n\n"}
{"id": "8575214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8575214", "title": "Rolex Sports Car Series", "text": "Rolex Sports Car Series\n\nThe Rolex Sports Car Series was the premier series run by the Grand American Road Racing Association. It was a North American-based sports car series founded in 2000 under the name Grand American Road Racing Championship to replace the failed United States Road Racing Championship. Rolex took over as series sponsor in 2002.\n\nIt ran a mixture of classes of sports prototypes and Grand Touring-style cars. In 2003, the series debuted their custom prototype chassis, known as Daytona Prototypes, named after their premiere event, the Rolex 24 at Daytona.\n\nThe series staged the North American Endurance Championship, featuring three of its premier races at Daytona, Watkins Glen, and Indianapolis.\n\nOn September 5, 2012, Grand-Am announced that it would be merging the Rolex Sports Car Series with the American Le Mans Series to form a unified road racing championship to be known as United SportsCar Racing, later retitled as the TUDOR United Sports Car Championship. The final Rolex Sports Car Series race was held on September 28, 2013 at Lime Rock Park.\n\nFollowing the failure of the United States Road Racing Championship in 1999, the new Grand American Road Racing Association announced their intentions to adopt a format similar to the one used in the USRRC, centering on the 24 Hours of Daytona. This series was seen as an alternative to the former IMSA GT Championship, which had since been replaced by the American Le Mans Series in 1999. The new series would run two classes of Sports Racing Prototypes identical to the rules used in the new FIA Sportscar Championship in Europe, while Grand Touring-style cars would consist of three classes: GTO for larger production-based race cars, GTU for smaller production-based race cars, and AGT for American tube frame cars. The league would also acquire the Six Hours of Watkins Glen, giving the league a second endurance race alongside the Rolex 24 at Daytona to compete with the ALMS' 12 Hours of Sebring and Petit Le Mans. GTO and GTU would be renamed GTS and GT for 2001 to better match the classes used by the similar American Le Mans Series.\n\n2003 would see the series go through a radical change, as Daytona Prototypes debuted for the first time to replace both of the Sports Racing Prototype classes. Although SRPs would be allowed to continue until the end of 2003, few were seen while the Daytona Prototypes took over the series. The American GT class was also dissolved with the cars being placed into the similar GTS class.\n\nIn 2004, the faster GTS class was abandoned in order to provide a larger gap between the Daytona Prototypes and GT cars. The GTS cars were as fast (if not faster) than the Daytona Prototypes. This meant that the GT class was now the top tier, being joined by the Super Grand Sport (SGS) class moved up from the Grand Am Cup series. This was further streamlined in 2005 with all Grand Touring-style cars being in a single GT class. \n\nThis formula led to the Rolex Sports Car Series having a large number of competitors at most events, mostly due to the ease of use and low cost of the cars in either class while the Grand American Road Racing Association was able to keep the competition equalized.\n\nWith such high car counts, Grand-Am has had to split GT and DP races at shorter tracks where it is not feasible to put 50 cars on the track at one instance. In each case, the GT cars race on Saturday, and the DP cars race on Sunday. This split format allows drivers to run both races. Each race is the same distance, as it would be if the two classes were running together. This did however make GT races slightly longer than combined events, since GT cars would likely finish several laps behind the winning prototype and thus not cover the full distance.\n\nWhen the GT and DP races were combined, the two classes would use a motorcycle racing-style \"wave start,\" a concept from Roger Edmonson, who had been in motorcycle racing before organising the Grand American series with the France family. In this case, the DP cars would take the green flag first, followed, usually 20–30 seconds later (depending on track length) by the GT cars. By starting the cars separately, the organisers hoped for safer starts by having the two classes of cars race separately.\n\nDue to the series' affiliation with NASCAR, many Sprint Cup Series drivers occasionally participated in Rolex Series races, particularly the 24 Hours of Daytona.\nSpeed Channel was the near-exclusive broadcaster of the Rolex Sports Car Series and included coverage of the 6 Hours of Watkins Glen and the 24 Hours of Daytona. On August 17, 2013, Fox Sports 1 became the new near-exclusive broadcaster for the Rolex Sports Car Series until 2014 when both Rolex Sports Car Series and American Le Mans Series form United Sports Car Racing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57122739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57122739", "title": "Sarajevo Fashion Film Festival", "text": "Sarajevo Fashion Film Festival\n\nThe Sarajevo Fashion Film Festival () is an international film festival held annually in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. It exclusively showcases fashion films, advertising films, music videos and short documentaries on the fashion industry. It was established in 2015 by the Consortio Civium Invictum Foundation in cooperation with the London Fashion Week, Paris Fashion Week and the Madrid Fashion Film Festival. \n\nSFFF was created in order to showcase and exhibit the new fashion cinematographic genre to wider audiences as well to create an institutional background to the increasing number of fashion films produced every year by fashion magazines and fashion production companies. The festival is held in December of every year and lasts for two days. It is made up of a competition and non-competition programme. As of 2017, the former is divided into 14 categories and includes the Dove of Sarajevo award for best overall fashion film. Further categories include Best Fashion Film, Best Music Video, Best National Film, Best New Talent, Best Photography, Best Actor, Best Actress, Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design, Best Major Brand Production, Best Make-up and Hair, Best Story, Best Visual and Special Effect and Best Documentary. The maximum length of the films shown in the competitive selection is 20 minutes. \n\"Selected categories:\"\n"}
{"id": "20193195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20193195", "title": "UN-SPIDER", "text": "UN-SPIDER\n\nUN-SPIDER (\"United Nations Platform for Space-based Information for Disaster Management and Emergency Response\") is a platform which facilitates the use of space-based technologies for disaster management and emergency response. It is a programme under the auspices of the United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (UNOOSA).\n\nGlobal vulnerability to natural disasters is likely to increase as the impact of climate change and land degradation processes continues to rise along with rapidly growing populations. Earthquakes, floods, storms, and other natural hazards cause massive disruption to societies and overburden national economic systems. Considerable losses of life and property, however, could be avoided through better information about the risk and onset of disasters, improved risk assessment, early warning, and disaster monitoring. In recognition of these needs the United Nations General Assembly, in its resolution 61/110 of 14 December 2006, acknowledged that use of existing space technology, such as earth observation and meteorological satellites, communication and navigation satellites can play a major role in supporting disaster management by providing accurate and timely information for decision making. Space-based information are relevant in all phases of the disaster management cycle from disaster risk reduction to disaster response and recovery.\n\nIn March 2015, world leaders convened in Sendai, Japan to agree on a new global framework for disaster risk reduction for the period 2015 through 2030. The outcome document refers to the importance of Space-based and geospatial information in several paragraphs, highlighting, among others, the importance to \"develop, update periodically and disseminate, as appropriate, location-based disaster risk information, including risk maps, to decision makers, the general public and communities at risk to disaster in an appropriate format by using, as applicable, geospatial information technology\".\n\nIn its resolution 61/110 of 14 December 2006, the United Nations General Assembly agreed to establish UN-SPIDER as a new United Nations programme, with the following mission statement: \"Ensure that all countries and international and regional organizations have access to and develop the capacity to use all types of space-based information to support the full disaster management cycle\". In doing so, UN-SPIDER aims at three goals: being a gateway to space information for disaster management support; serving as a bridge to connect the disaster management and space communities; and being a facilitator of capacity-building and institutional strengthening.\n\nUN-SPIDER has three offices in Vienna, Austria, in Bonn, Germany and in Beijing, China.\n\nThe UN-SPIDER Vienna office is located at UNOOSA's headquarters in the Vienna International Centre. Its staff members are in charge of general UN-SPIDER coordination, fund-raising, Regional Support Office (RSO) coordination and Technical Advisory Support. The office is supported by the government of Austria.\n\nThe UN-SPIDER Bonn Office was established in October 2007 with the support from the German Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology (BMWi) and the German Aerospace Center (DLR). The UN-SPIDER Bonn Office is responsible for UN-SPIDER's knowledge management. The goal is to make sure that all relevant information is easily accessible and disseminated to all stakeholders in the areas of disaster management and emergency and humanitarian response. This is done mainly via UN-SPIDER's Knowledge Portal, which is managed by the Bonn staff. The Bonn Office is also dealing with Technical Advisory Support in Latin America and the Caribbean.\n\nThe Beijing office opened on November 9, 2010, and is supported by the government of the People's Republic of China. The Beijing Office is mainly dealing with Technical Advisory Support in the Asia and Pacific region and the coordination of UN-SPIDER's network of National Focal Points.\n\nThe acquisition, processing and transfer of knowledge is the central element of UN-SPIDER's activities. A knowledge base on space-based information and solutions to support risk and disaster management are therefore made available through the UN-SPIDER Knowledge Portal.\n\nThe UN-SPIDER Knowledge Portal is central to all knowledge management activities carried out within the framework of UN-SPIDER, as it provides the hosting environment and the dissemination tool for all resulting outputs and products. The Knowledge Portal went online in June 2009 and has been continuously improved and amended ever since. Its main tool is the Space Application Matrix, a sophisticated search engine to make available research papers and case studies on the application of different space-based resources in all phases of the disaster management cycle. The Portal also features the latest news from the disaster and risk management and the space communities, information on workshops, trainings and events as well as profile details on UN-SPIDER's network partners.\n\nUN-SPIDER's knowledge management activities are accompanied by its awareness-raising efforts. Since awareness-raising is a process by which the level of understanding among the persons targeted is raised, fostering change in attitudes and behaviour, it is central to the success of promoting the use of space-based information. In the framework of UN-SPIDER, awareness-raising is designed as an ongoing process accompanying, facilitating and preparing activities, as new audiences are addressed, new partnerships are formed and new technological solutions are developed, offering new opportunities for existing and new target groups. UN-SPIDER implements its awareness-raising activities mainly via its publications such as the monthly Updates and the biannual Newsletter as well as via its Knowledge Portal.\n\nExperience shows that the conduction of activities targeting the full disaster management cycle spans a variety of agencies from the public and the private sector, at different levels, and is best conducted through a coordinated approach. UN-SPIDER's outreach activities contribute to involving practitioners and experts from the disaster management and space communities in UN-SPIDER activities with the end-goal to promote the use of space-based information to support the full disaster management cycle. \n\nUN-SPIDER's outreach activities include the organization of workshops, seminars and expert meetings in all regions as well as the support to similar events organized by its partners. UN-SPIDER staff furthermore participates in relevant events all over the world to raise awareness about UN-SPIDER's activities and the opportunities that space-based information offers for disaster and risk management.\n\nTechnical Advisory Support (TAS) is one of the prime activities of the UN-SPIDER programme at the national level. It serves to identify the existing capacity to use space-based information, to analyze the institutional framework to support disaster management through spacebased information and to identify the limitations that inhibit the use of such information. TAS attempts to enable Member States to overcome these limitations through international cooperation and regional opportunities, networking with regional institutions, and setting up disaster management plans. It covers region-specific aspects such as trans-boundary issues, emergency response, risk assessment, \nGIS-based disaster management systems, and disaster-risk reduction. TAS efforts range from a simple consultative phone call to the facilitation of technical support, missions, trainings and workshops. UN-SPIDER's TAS has three pilars: Technical Advisory Missions, Capacity Building and Facilitation of Emergency Support/Technical Support.\n\nTechnical Advisory Missions (TAMs) are an instrument to identify the needs of Member States regarding their capacities to fully take advantage of space-based information. TAMs are officially requested by the respective national government and are conducted by a team of experts. The team meets with key disaster management and development authorities in the Government, United Nations organizations, regional and international organizations/initiatives and private entrepreneurs to discuss the topic in depth. It makes recommendations focusing on how to improve the access to and use of space-based information in risk and disaster management. Since 2008 various missions have been carried out to countries in Latin America, the Caribbean, Africa, Asia and the Pacific region.\n\nUN-SPIDER defines its Capacity Building as the process of facilitating the strengthening of the competency of individuals, teams, and agencies to use space-based information to prevent, mitigate, and respond effectively to the challenges posed by natural hazards and related humanitarian crises. UN-SPIDER capacity building efforts include \nfour complementary types of activities: Providing policy-relevant advice to institutions and governments regarding the use of space-based (spatial) information to support the full disaster management cycle, facilitating access to space-based data and services, facilitating the training of individuals on access to and use of such data and facilitating access to infrastructure, hardware, and software, and services for spacebased applications. Therefore, UN-SPIDER's capacity building simultaneously aims at institutions, individuals and infrastructure.\n\nIn the case of emergencies and disasters, UN-SPIDER provides Emergency Supportby taking the role of a bridge linking the disaster management agencies in charge of response operations with space agencies or the mechanisms which have been established by the space community such as the International Charter: Space and Major Disasters. UN-SPIDER provides this support through the activation of its network of Regional Support Offices (RSO) and through links with specific space agencies.\n\nUN-SPIDER created a global network in order to foster and strengthen strategic alliances and partnerships on a global and regional scale. There are two types of networks: Regional Support Offices (RSOs) and National Focal Points (NFP).\n\nA Regional Support Office is a regional or national center of expertise that is set up within an existing entity by a Member State. The establishment of a network of Regional Support Offices was agreed upon by the United Nations General Assembly in its Resolution 61/110. UN-SPIDER currently has Regional Support Offices in Algeria, Argentina, Japan, Colombia, Hungary, Indonesia, Iran, Kenya, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Romania, Russia, Sri Lanka, Ukraine, and West Indies. Detailed information on all UN-SPIDER Regional Support Offices can be found in the UN-SPIDER Knowledge Portal\n\nRegional Support Offices communicate and coordinate with UN-SPIDER staff on regular basis, covering the three following realms:\n\nAs defined by the United Nations General Assembly, a National Focal Point is a national institution, nominated by the government of the respective country, representing the disaster management and space applications communities. Among them are for example members of the space - or civil protection agencies. UN-SPIDER networks with all countries through the National Focal Points.\n\nA national Focal Point works with UN-SPIDER staff to achieve the following goals:\n\n"}
{"id": "414388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=414388", "title": "UTAGE Flight 141", "text": "UTAGE Flight 141\n\nUTAGE Flight 141 was a chartered international passenger flight operated by Guinean regional airlines Union des Transports Aériens de Guinée flying from Cotonou Airport in Benin's capital Cotonou to Kufra Airport in Kufra, Libya. On 25 December 2003 the aircraft crashed in the Bight of Benin, killing at least 144 people, most of them Lebanese. Shortly after the crash, 35 survivors were found by a search and rescue team. Some of them were pronounced dead upon reaching the hospital.\n\nFlight 141 was an ex-American Airlines Boeing 727-223, 3X-GDO. The airliner's route was Conakry International Airport – Cotonou Cadjehoun Airport – Kufra Airport – Beirut International Airport – Dubai International Airport. The final report, which was published by France's Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses pour la Sécurité de l'Aviation Civile, concluded that the crash occurred due to airplane overload, as the plane's actual weight has exceeded its maximum weight capacity, thus decreasing its performance, especially when taking-off. Flight 141 did take off, but because it took for it too long to take off, the plane hit a localizer building and plunged to the ocean. The report also blamed the airport's lack of facilities.\n\nThis was the 100th aviation accident involving the Boeing 727. Currently, it is held as the deadliest plane crash in Benin's aviation history and the 11th worst accident involving the Boeing 727.\n\nFlight 141 was a weekly scheduled flight, performed by the Union des Transports Africains de Guinée (UTAGE), between Conakry (Guinea), Cotonou (Benin), Beirut (Lebanon) and Dubai (United Arab Emirates). A stopover at Kufra (Libya) was planned between Cotonou and Beirut. Having departed from Conakry at 10:07 with eighty-six passengers, including three babies, and ten crew members, the Boeing 727-223 landed at Cotonou Cadjèhoun on 25 December 2003 at 12:25 where nine passengers disembarked.\nSixty-three persons, including two babies, checked in at the airport check-in desk. Ten others, including one baby, boarded from an aircraft that had arrived from Lomé (Togo). Passenger boarding and baggage loading took place with great confusion since the airplane was full. In the cockpit, two UTAGE executives used the jump seats. Faced with the particularly large number and size of the hand baggage, the chief flight attendant informed the captain of the situation.\n\nThe ground handling company’s agents began loading the baggage in the aft hold when one of the operator’s agents, who remains unidentified, asked them to continue loading in the forward hold, which already contained baggage. When they were finished, the hold was full.\n\nDuring this time, the crew prepared the airplane for the second flight segment. The co-pilot was discussing his concerns with the UTAGE executives, reminding them of the importance of determining the precise weight of the loading of the airplane. The flight plan for Kufra, signed by the captain, was filed with the ATC office but the meteorological dossier that had been prepared was not collected. Fuel was added to fill up the airplane’s tanks. The accompanying mechanics added some oil.\n\nAt 13:52, Flight 141 was cleared to roll. The co-pilot was pilot flying (PF). The elevator was set at 6 ¾, it was stated that the takeoff would be performed with full power applied with brakes on, followed by a climb at three degrees maximum to gain speed, with no turn after landing gear retraction.\n\nAs the roll was beginning, a flight attendant informed the cockpit that passengers who wanted to sit near their friends were still standing and did not want to sit down. The airline’s director general called the people in the cabin to order.\n\nThe airplane accelerated. In the tower, the assistant controller noted that the take-off roll was long, though he did not pay any particular attention to it. At 13:59, a speed of a hundred and thirty-seven knots was reached. The captain called out V1 and Vr. The co-pilot pulled back on the control column. This action initially had no effect on the airplane’s angle of attack. The Captain called \"Rotate, rotate\" the co-pilot pulled back harder. The angle of attack only increased slowly. When the airplane had hardly left the ground, it struck the building containing the localizer on the extended runway centerline, at 13:59. This, resulting in the building's roof to flung 11 meters to the air, and seriously injuring two people in the building. The right main landing gear broke off and ripped off a part of the underwing flaps on the right wing. Survivors of the crash recalled that the plane was struggling to take off while passengers were screaming. The airplane banked slightly to the right with one of its wheels struck the upper perimeter fence and the plane slammed onto the beach. As it slid, it broke into several pieces. The cockpit started to detach, with its right wing and engines followed. It ended up in the ocean, ejecting dead bodies and passengers from the aircraft. The wreckage submerged in upside down condition.\n\nThe two controllers present in the tower heard the noise and, looking in the direction of the takeoff, saw the airplane plunge towards the ground. Immediately afterwards, a cloud of dust and sand prevented anything else from being seen.\n\nThe Boeing 727-223 serial number 21370 was registered N865AA from June 1977 to January 2003. It was operated by American Airlines before being stored on 18 October 2001, through the Pegasus Aviation Group, in the Mojave Desert in California. It was not possible to obtain the number of flying hours it had performed up to then. On 20 February 2002, it became the property of Wells Fargo Bank Northwest.\nIn January 2003, the airplane was sold to the Financial Advisory Group whose headquarters was in Miami (Florida). This company owns transport category aircraft that it leases to various operators. It is apparently currently based in the Virgin Islands, according to information provided by its office in Sharjah (United Arab Emirates), an office that appears to have managed the airplane from the time of its purchase and was the only interlocutor for its successive operators.\n\nOn 15 January 2003, an FAA authorization allowed the new operator, Ariana Afghan Airlines, to undertake a ferry flight to Afghanistan under the YA-FAK registration. This authorization was subject to the obligation to perform the flight with a crew designated by the FAA and, before any new period of operation, to applying the conditional Airworthiness Directives to the airplane. From 23 June 2003, the airplane was operated by Alpha Omega Airways in Swaziland under the 3D-FAK registration. On 8 July, this operator, presenting itself as the owner of the airplane, leased it with a crew for thirty days to UTAGE, which operated it from 9 July 2003 onwards. On 13 October, UTAGE signed a second lease for the same airplane, this time with FAG.\n\nOn 15 October 2003, the Guinean DNAC (Direction Nationale de l’Aviation Civile) registered the airplane under the registration 3X-GDO and, while waiting for UTAGE to write its own documentation, approved the Flight Manual for three months that had originally been approved by the FAA, along with the Minimum Equipment List (MEL) and the maintenance manual issued by American Airlines.\n\nAs the accident happened on Christmas Day, many of the passengers were workers who were flying back home to Lebanon to enjoy the holidays with their families. Over a hundred of the passengers were Lebanese, while the rest of them were from Togo, Guinea, Libya, Sierra Leone, Palestine, Syria, Nigeria, and Iran.\n\nAmong the passengers were 15 Bangladeshi UN peacekeepers returning from their duties in Sierra Leone and Liberia.\nExact passenger numbers are impossible to determine, as it is thought that there were more passengers aboard than were listed on the manifest.\n\nTo this day, given the difficulties encountered in finding and identifying the victims, due to the extent of the disaster and the imprecision of the information concerning the people on board, between 140 and 148 fatalities can be recorded. There were 22 survivors, including the Captain, the Flight Engineer and the Director General of the airline. The technician who was in the building struck by the airplane was also seriously injured. Some passengers who survived the initial crash died while being hospitalised.\n\nThe Captain was a former pilot of Libyan Arab Airlines, where he flew on Boeing 727, the Captain joined the FAG (Financial Advisory Group) on 11 March 2003, with availability until 10 March 2004. In this context, he had first worked for three months for Royal Jordanian Airlines then for six months for Trans Air Benin. During the latter period, he regularly landed a Boeing 727 at Pointe Noire and at Cotonou. On 8 December 2003, he had performed his first flight for UTAGE. He has an experience of 11,000 flying hours in total including 5,000 as Captain; and 8,000 flying hours on type including 5,000 as Captain; The co-pilot had joined FAG on secondment from Libyan Arab Airlines. Like the Captain, he had performed his first flight for UTAGE on 8 December 2003 and had done exactly the same things since that date.\n\nThe Flight Engineer has a total experience of 14,000 flying hours in total, all on the Boeing 727-200; The Flight Engineer had joined FAG on secondment from Libyan Arab Airlines. Like the Captain, he had performed his first flight for UTAGE on 8 December 2003 and had done exactly the same things since that date.\n\nThe Government of Benin established a National Commission of Inquiry to investigate the accident, as outlined by Decree No 2003-563 of 26 December 2003. The commission's president established Order No 3451/MDN/DC/SA of 30 December 2003, which gave the \"Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses pour la Sécurité de l'Aviation Civile\" (BEA), the aviation investigation agency of France, the responsibility of conducting the technical investigation.\n\nThe flap was set on 25° and stabilizer on 6 ¾, which are confirmed both by the testimony and the observations made on the wreckage, as well as the declared weight of 78 tons, show that the center of gravity allowed for by the crew was 19%. This value is consistent with a normally balanced airplane.\n\nHowever, it is not known what the load distribution was in the holds, or even in the cabin, since no loading plan was made. The only thing that could be determined was that the forward hold was full of baggage. Equally, the airplane’s dry operating index, that is to say its empty center of gravity, could not be identified. On the documents from Lebanon, two different indices had been used. It was not therefore possible to reconstitute the airplane’s center of gravity as it was on 25 December.\n\nThe graphs obtained from the recorded parameters show that, when the stick was pulled back, the elevator was immediately set in pitch-up position, but that the airplane’s response time was very slow compared to the usual time, the nose lifting off late while the acceleration was continuing. Such a situation at the beginning of the climb-out indicates either a limitation in the elevator’s operation or an airplane with a center of gravity that is too far forward.\nChecks on the wreckage did not reveal any evidence that would support the theory that there was a malfunction of the airplane’s elevator system. The calculations made on the basis of airplane performance during take-off gave a center of gravity value of 14%, that is to say a forward balance that would require a stabilizer setting of 7 ¾.\nThe eight previous take-offs were also analyzed. These show that during the previous take-off from Cotonou (flight No 8) the pitch-up control input had immediately been followed by an increase in the airplane’s angle of attack. The previous day, on flight No 2, the rotation had been performed spontaneously at a speed of around one hundred knots, without any elevator input, and there had then been some stick push so as to control the rotation.\n\nThe BEA wrote the original accident report and translated the report into English. The final report concluded that the accident resulted from a direct cause:\nand two structural causes:\nThe following factors could have contributed to the accident:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "648845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=648845", "title": "Valdecoxib", "text": "Valdecoxib\n\nValdecoxib is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used in the treatment of osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and painful menstruation and menstrual symptoms. It is a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor.\n\nValdecoxib was manufactured and marketed under the brand name Bextra by G. D. Searle & Company as an anti-inflammatory arthritis drug. It was approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration on November 20, 2001, to treat arthritis and menstrual cramps. and was available by prescription in tablet form until 2005 when the FDA requested that Pfizer withdraw Bextra from the American market. The FDA cited \"potential increased risk for serious cardiovascular (CV) adverse events,\" an \"increased risk of serious skin reactions\" and the \"fact that Bextra has not been shown to offer any unique advantages over the other available NSAIDs.\"\n\nIn September 2009 Bextra was at the center of the \"largest health care fraud settlement and the largest criminal fine of any kind ever.\" Pfizer paid a $2.3 billion civil and criminal fine. Pharmacia and Upjohn, a Pfizer subsidiary, violated the United States Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act for misbranding Bextra \"with the intent to defraud or mislead.\"\n\nA water-soluble and injectable prodrug of valdecoxib, parecoxib is marketed in the European Union under the tradename Dynastat.\n\nIn the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved valdecoxib for the treatment of osteoarthritis, adult rheumatoid arthritis, and primary dysmenorrhea.\n\nValdecoxib was also used off-label for controlling acute pain and various types of surgical pain.\n\nOn April 7, 2005, Pfizer withdrew Bextra from the U.S. market on recommendation by the FDA, citing an increased risk of heart attack and stroke and also the risk of a serious, sometimes fatal, skin reaction. This was a result of recent attention to prescription NSAIDs, such as Merck's Vioxx. Other reported side-effects were angina and Stevens–Johnson syndrome.\n\nPfizer first acknowledged cardiovascular risks associated with Bextra in October 2004. The American Heart Association soon after was presented with a report indicating patients using Bextra while recovering from heart surgery were 2.19 times more likely to suffer a stroke or heart attack than those taking placebos.\n\nIn a large study published in The Journal of the American Medical Association in 2006, valdecoxib appeared less adverse for renal (kidney) disease and heart arrhythmia compared to Vioxx, however elevated renal risks were slightly suggested.\n\nOn September 2, 2009, the United States Department of Justice fined Pfizer $2.3 billion after one of its subsidiaries, Pharmacia & UpJohn Company, pleaded guilty to marketing four drugs including Bextra \"with the intent to defraud or mislead.\" Pharmacia & UpJohn admitted to criminal conduct in the promotion of Bextra, and agreed to pay the largest criminal fine ever imposed in the United States for any matter, $1.195 billion. A former Pfizer district sales manager was indicted and sentenced to home confinement for destroying documents regarding the illegal promotion of Bextra. In addition, a Regional Manager pleaded guilty to distribution of a mis-branded product, and was fined $75,000 and twenty-four months on probation.\n\nThe remaining $1 billion of the fine was paid to resolve allegations under the civil False Claims Act case and is the largest civil fraud settlement against a pharmaceutical company. Six whistle-blowers were awarded more than $102 million for their role in the investigation. Former Pfizer sales representative John Kopchinski acted as a qui tam relator and filed a complaint in 2004 outlining the illegal conduct in the marketing of Bextra. Kopchinski was awarded $51.5 million for his role in the case because the improper marketing of Bextra was the largest piece of the settlement at $1.8 billion.\n\nSeveral HPLC-UV methods have been reported for valdecoxib estimation in biological samples like human urine and plasma. Valdecoxib has analytical methods for bioequivalence studies, metabolite determination, estimation of formulation, and an HPTLC method for simultaneous estimation in tablet dosage form.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43504923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43504923", "title": "Valtice Wine Market", "text": "Valtice Wine Market\n\nValtice Wine Market (in Czech: Valtické vinné trhy) is a wine exhibition held annually in the Valtice Chateau riding hall at the beginning of May. \n\nThe Valtice Wine Market was first held at the end of the 19th century. The modern history of the Valtice Wine Market commenced in the year 1967, when this wine contest was held for the first time in its present fashion.\n\nVarious prizes are awarded at this show: the jury awards one gold, one silver and one bronze medal for each category or variety of wine.\n"}
{"id": "4216709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4216709", "title": "Volkstheater, Vienna", "text": "Volkstheater, Vienna\n\nThe Volkstheater in Vienna (roughly translated as \"People's Theatre\") was founded in 1889 by request of the citizens of Vienna, amongst them the dramatist Ludwig Anzengruber and the furniture manufacturer Thonet, in order to offer a popular counter weight to the \"Hofburgtheater\". It was erected according to designs by Ferdinand Fellner and Hermann Helmer, who attempted to reconcile their plans with historicism. It is located in Neubau, the seventh district of Vienna.\n\nThe founders of this stage had a theatrical stage in mind, in order to expose wider circles of the population of Vienna to classical and modern literature whilst staging these next to more traditional plays. The theatre follows this tradition even today. New productions of the classics are always in the pipeline along with regular reinterpretations of works by Ferdinand Raimund and Johann Nestroy and many new plays and reruns. Special attention is given to Austrian playwrights of old and new.\n\nIn 2005 Michael Schottenberg became art director of the Volkstheater.\n\nIn 2005 the Volkstheater started an alternative theater stage called \"Volkstheater Hundsturm\" in Margareten, the fifth district of Vienna. It is a place for experimental theater (e.g. Wojtek Klemm, Dejan Dukovski, monochrom).\n\nThe Volkstheater station of lines U2 and U3 of the Vienna U-Bahn is located here.\n\n"}
{"id": "4021175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4021175", "title": "Winter Star Party", "text": "Winter Star Party\n\nThe Winter Star Party, aka WSP, is an annual convention of amateur astronomers where the primary activity is nighttime astronomical observation. This February event is run at Camp Wesumkee located on Scout Key in the Lower Florida Keys. It is hosted by the Southern Cross Astronomical Society of Miami, Florida.\n\nMost attendees camp on site. BBC Sky at Night magazine rated WSP as one of the top 10 star parties in the world. WSP was first established in 1984 by Tippy D'Auria. \n"}
