{"id": "1107647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1107647", "title": "Alexander polynomial", "text": "Alexander polynomial\n\nIn mathematics, the Alexander polynomial is a knot invariant which assigns a polynomial with integer coefficients to each knot type. James Waddell Alexander II discovered this, the first knot polynomial, in 1923. In 1969, John Conway showed a version of this polynomial, now called the Alexander–Conway polynomial, could be computed using a skein relation, although its significance was not realized until the discovery of the Jones polynomial in 1984. Soon after Conway's reworking of the Alexander polynomial, it was realized that a similar skein relation was exhibited in Alexander's paper on his polynomial.\n\nLet \"K\" be a knot in the 3-sphere. Let \"X\" be the infinite cyclic cover of the knot complement of \"K\". This covering can be obtained by cutting the knot complement along a Seifert surface of \"K\" and gluing together infinitely many copies of the resulting manifold with boundary in a cyclic manner. There is a covering transformation \"t\" acting on \"X\". Consider the first homology (with integer coefficients) of \"X\", denoted formula_1. The transformation \"t\" acts on the homology and so we can consider formula_1 a module over the ring of Laurent polynomials formula_3. This is called the Alexander invariant or Alexander module.\n\nThe module is finitely presentable; a presentation matrix for this module is called the Alexander matrix. If the number of generators, \"r\", is less than or equal to the number of relations, \"s\", then we consider the ideal generated by all \"r\" by \"r\" minors of the matrix; this is the zero'th Fitting ideal or Alexander ideal and does not depend on choice of presentation matrix. If \"r > s\", set the ideal equal to 0. If the Alexander ideal is principal, take a generator; this is called an Alexander polynomial of the knot. Since this is only unique up to multiplication by the Laurent monomial formula_4, one often fixes a particular unique form. Alexander's choice of normalization is to make the polynomial have a positive constant term.\n\nAlexander proved that the Alexander ideal is nonzero and always principal. Thus an Alexander polynomial always exists, and is clearly a knot invariant, denoted formula_5. The Alexander polynomial for the knot configured by only one string is a polynomial of t and then it is the same polynomial for the mirror image knot. Namely, it can not distinguish between the knot and one for its mirror image.\n\nThe following procedure for computing the Alexander polynomial was given by J. W. Alexander in his paper.\n\nTake an oriented diagram of the knot with \"n\" crossings; there are \"n\" + 2 regions of the knot diagram. To work out the Alexander polynomial, first one must create an incidence matrix of size (\"n\", \"n\" + 2). The \"n\" rows correspond to the \"n\" crossings, and the \"n\" + 2 columns to the regions. The values for the matrix entries are either 0, 1, −1, \"t\", −\"t\".\n\nConsider the entry corresponding to a particular region and crossing. If the region is not adjacent to the crossing, the entry is 0. If the region is adjacent to the crossing, the entry depends on its location. The following table gives the entry, determined by the location of the region at the crossing from the perspective of the incoming undercrossing line.\n\nRemove two columns corresponding to adjacent regions from the matrix, and work out the determinant of the new \"n\" by \"n\" matrix. Depending on the columns removed, the answer will differ by multiplication by formula_4. To resolve this ambiguity, divide out the largest possible power of \"t\" and multiply by −1 if necessary, so that the constant term is positive. This gives the Alexander polynomial.\n\nThe Alexander polynomial can also be computed from the Seifert matrix.\n\nAfter the work of J. W. Alexander, Ralph Fox considered a copresentation of the knot group formula_7, and introduced non-commutative differential calculus , which also permits one to compute formula_5. Detailed exposition of this approach about higher Alexander polynomials can be found in the book .\n\nThe Alexander polynomial is symmetric: formula_9 for all knots K.\n\nFurthermore, the Alexander polynomial evaluates to a unit on 1: formula_21.\n\nIt is known that every integral Laurent polynomial which is both symmetric and evaluates to a unit at 1 is the Alexander polynomial of a knot (Kawauchi 1996).\n\nSince the Alexander ideal is principal, formula_28 if and only if the commutator subgroup of the knot group is perfect (i.e. equal to its own commutator subgroup).\n\nFor a topologically slice knot, the Alexander polynomial satisfies the Fox–Milnor condition formula_29 where formula_30 is some other integral Laurent polynomial.\n\nTwice the knot genus is bounded below by the degree of the Alexander polynomial.\n\nMichael Freedman proved that a knot in the 3-sphere is topologically slice; i.e., bounds a \"locally-flat\" topological disc in the 4-ball, if the Alexander polynomial of the knot is trivial (Freedman and Quinn, 1990).\n\nThere are other relations with surfaces and smooth 4-dimensional topology. For example, under certain assumptions, there is a way of modifying a smooth 4-manifold by performing a surgery that consists of removing a neighborhood of a two-dimensional torus and replacing it with a knot complement crossed with \"S\". The result is a smooth 4-manifold homeomorphic to the original, though now the Seiberg–Witten invariant has been modified by multiplication with the Alexander polynomial of the knot.\n\nKnots with symmetries are known to have restricted Alexander polynomials. See the symmetry section in (Kawauchi 1996). Nonetheless, the Alexander polynomial can fail to detect some symmetries, such as strong invertibility.\n\nIf the knot complement fibers over the circle, then the Alexander polynomial of the knot is known to be \"monic\" (the coefficients of the highest and lowest order terms are equal to formula_31). In fact, if formula_32 is a fiber bundle where formula_33 is the knot complement, let formula_34 represent the monodromy, then formula_35 where formula_36 is the induced map on homology.\n\nIf a knot formula_37 is a satellite knot with pattern knot formula_38 (there exists an embedding formula_39 such that formula_40, where formula_41 is an unknotted solid torus containing formula_38), then formula_43, where formula_44 is the integer that represents formula_45 in formula_46.\n\nExamples: For a connect-sum formula_47. If formula_37 is an untwisted Whitehead double, then formula_49.\n\nAlexander proved the Alexander polynomial satisfies a skein relation. John Conway later rediscovered this in a different form and showed that the skein relation together with a choice of value on the unknot was enough to determine the polynomial. Conway's version is a polynomial in \"z\" with integer coefficients, denoted formula_50 and called the Alexander–Conway polynomial (also known as Conway polynomial or Conway–Alexander polynomial).\n\nSuppose we are given an oriented link diagram, where formula_51 are link diagrams resulting from crossing and smoothing changes on a local region of a specified crossing of the diagram, as indicated in the figure. \n\nHere are Conway's skein relations:\n\n\nThe relationship to the standard Alexander polynomial is given by formula_54. Here formula_55 must be properly normalized (by multiplication of formula_56) to satisfy the skein relation formula_57. Note that this relation gives a Laurent polynomial in \"t\".\n\nSee knot theory for an example computing the Conway polynomial of the trefoil.\n\nUsing pseudo-holomorphic curves, and associated a bigraded abelian group, called knot Floer homology, to each isotopy class of knots. The graded Euler characteristic of knot Floer homology is the Alexander polynomial. While the Alexander polynomial gives a lower bound on the genus of a knot, showed that knot Floer homology detects the genus. Similarly, while the Alexander polynomial gives an obstruction to a knot complement fibering over the circle, showed that knot Floer homology completely determines when a knot complement fibers over the circle. The knot Floer homology groups are part of the Heegaard Floer homology family of invariants; see Floer homology for further discussion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53955838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53955838", "title": "Alternatives to evolution by natural selection", "text": "Alternatives to evolution by natural selection\n\nAlternatives to evolution by natural selection, also described as non-Darwinian mechanisms of evolution, have been proposed by scholars investigating biology since classical times to explain signs of evolution and the relatedness of different groups of living things. The alternatives in question do not encompass religious points of view such as young or old earth creationism or intelligent design, but are limited to explanations proposed by biologists, though one was confusingly named 'theistic evolution' by Asa Gray.\n\nWhere the fact of evolutionary change was accepted but the mechanism proposed by Charles Darwin, natural selection, was denied, explanations of evolution such as Lamarckism, catastrophism, orthogenesis, vitalism, structuralism and mutationism (called saltationism before 1900) were entertained. Different factors motivated people to propose non-Darwinian mechanisms of evolution. Natural selection, with its emphasis on death and competition, did not appeal to some naturalists because they felt it immoral, leaving little room for teleology or the concept of progress in the development of life. Some who came to accept evolution, but disliked natural selection, raised religious objections. Others felt that evolution was an inherently progressive process that natural selection alone was insufficient to explain. Still others felt that nature, including the development of life, followed orderly patterns that natural selection could not explain.\n\nBy the start of the 20th century, evolution was generally accepted by biologists but natural selection was in eclipse. Many alternative theories were proposed, but biologists were quick to discount theories such as orthogenesis, vitalism and Lamarckism which offered no mechanism for evolution. Mutationism did propose a mechanism, but it was not generally accepted. The modern synthesis a generation later claimed to sweep away all the alternatives to Darwinian evolution, though some have been revived as molecular mechanisms for them have been discovered.\n\nAristotle did not embrace either divine creation or evolution, instead arguing in his biology that each species (\"eidos\") was immutable, breeding true to its ideal eternal form (not the same as Plato's theory of Forms). Aristotle's suggestion in \"De Generatione Animalium\" of a fixed hierarchy in nature - a \"scala naturae\" (\"ladder of nature\") provided an early explanation of the continuity of living things. Aristotle saw that animals were teleological (functionally end-directed), and had parts that were homologous with those of other animals, but he did not connect these ideas into a concept of evolutionary progress.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, Scholasticism developed Aristotle's view into the idea of a great chain of being. The image of a ladder inherently suggests the possibility of climbing, but both the ancient Greeks and mediaeval scholastics such as Ramon Lull maintained that each species remained fixed from the moment of its creation.\n\nBy 1818, however, Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire argued in his \"Philosophie anatomique\" that the chain was \"a progressive series\", where animals like molluscs low on the chain could \"rise, by addition of parts, from the simplicity of the first formations to the complication of the creatures at the head of the scale\", given sufficient time. Accordingly, Geoffroy and later biologists looked for explanations of such evolutionary change.\n\nGeorges Cuvier's 1812 \"Recherches sur les Ossements Fossiles\" set out his doctrine of the correlation of parts, namely that since an organism was a whole system, all its parts mutually corresponded, contributing to the function of the whole. So, from a single bone the zoologist could often tell what class or even genus the animal belonged to. And if an animal had teeth adapted for cutting meat, the zoologist could be sure without even looking that its sense organs would be those of a predator and its intestines those of a carnivore. A species had an irreducible functional complexity, and \"none of its parts can change without the others changing too\". Evolutionists expected one part to change at a time, one change to follow another. In Cuvier's view, evolution was impossible, as any one change would unbalance the whole delicate system.\n\nLouis Agassiz's 1856 \"Essay on Classification\" exemplified German philosophical idealism. This held that each species was complex within itself, had complex relationships to other organisms, and fitted precisely into its environment, as a pine tree in a forest, and could not survive outside those circles. The argument from such ideal forms opposed evolution without offering an actual alternative mechanism. Richard Owen held a similar view in Britain.\n\nThe Lamarckian social philosopher and evolutionist Herbert Spencer, ironically the author of the phrase \"survival of the fittest\" adopted by Darwin, used an argument like Cuvier's to oppose natural selection. In 1893, he stated that a change in any one structure of the body would require all the other parts to adapt to fit in with the new arrangement. From this, he argued that it was unlikely that all the changes could appear at the right moment if each one depended on random variation; whereas in a Lamarckian world, all the parts would naturally adapt at once, through a changed pattern of use and disuse.\n\nWhere the fact of evolutionary change was accepted by biologists but natural selection was denied, including but not limited to the late 19th century eclipse of Darwinism, alternative scientific explanations such as Lamarckism, orthogenesis, structuralism, catastrophism, vitalism and theistic evolution were entertained, not necessarily separately. (Purely religious points of view such as young or old earth creationism or intelligent design are not considered here.) Different factors motivated people to propose non-Darwinian evolutionary mechanisms. Natural selection, with its emphasis on death and competition, did not appeal to some naturalists because they felt it immoral, leaving little room for teleology or the concept of progress in the development of life. Some of these scientists and philosophers, like St. George Jackson Mivart and Charles Lyell, who came to accept evolution but disliked natural selection, raised religious objections. Others, such as the biologist and philosopher Herbert Spencer, the botanist George Henslow (son of Darwin's mentor John Stevens Henslow, also a botanist), and the author Samuel Butler, felt that evolution was an inherently progressive process that natural selection alone was insufficient to explain. Still others, including the American paleontologists Edward Drinker Cope and Alpheus Hyatt, had an idealist perspective and felt that nature, including the development of life, followed orderly patterns that natural selection could not explain.\n\nSome felt that natural selection would be too slow, given the estimates of the age of the earth and sun (10–100 million years) being made at the time by physicists such as Lord Kelvin, and some felt that natural selection could not work because at the time the models for inheritance involved blending of inherited characteristics, an objection raised by the engineer Fleeming Jenkin in a review of \"Origin\" written shortly after its publication. Another factor at the end of the 19th century was the rise of a new faction of biologists, typified by geneticists like Hugo de Vries and Thomas Hunt Morgan, who wanted to recast biology as an experimental laboratory science. They distrusted the work of naturalists like Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace, dependent on field observations of variation, adaptation, and biogeography, as being overly anecdotal. Instead they focused on topics like physiology and genetics that could be investigated with controlled experiments in the laboratory, and discounted less accessible phenomena like natural selection and adaptation to the environment.\n\nVitalism holds that living organisms differ from other things in containing something non-physical, such as a fluid or vital spirit, that makes them live. The theory dates to ancient Egypt.\nSince Early Modern times, vitalism stood in contrast to the mechanistic explanation of biological systems started by Descartes. Nineteenth century chemists set out to disprove the claim that forming organic compounds required vitalist influence. In 1828, Friedrich Wöhler showed that urea could be made entirely from inorganic chemicals. Louis Pasteur believed that fermentation required whole organisms, which he supposed carried out chemical reactions found only in living things. The embryologist Hans Driesch, experimenting on sea urchin eggs, showed that separating the first two cells led to two complete but small blastulas, seemingly showing that cell division did not divide the egg into sub-mechanisms, but created more cells each with the vital capability to form a new organism. Vitalism faded out with the demonstration of more satisfactory mechanistic explanations of each of the functions of a living cell or organism. By 1931, biologists had \"almost unanimously abandoned vitalism as an acknowledged belief.\"\n\nThe American botanist Asa Gray used the name \"theistic evolution\" for his point of view, presented in his 1876 book \"Essays and Reviews Pertaining to Darwinism\". He argued that the deity supplies beneficial mutations to guide evolution. St George Jackson Mivart argued instead in his 1871 \"On the Genesis of Species\" that the deity, equipped with foreknowledge, sets the direction of evolution by specifying the (orthogenetic) laws that govern it, and leaves species to evolve according to the conditions they experience as time goes by. The Duke of Argyll set out similar views in his 1867 book \"The Reign of Law\". According to the historian Edward Larson, the theory failed as an explanation in the minds of late 19th century biologists as it broke the rules of methodological naturalism which they had grown to expect. Accordingly, by around 1900, biologists no longer saw theistic evolution as a valid theory. In Larson's view, by then it \"did not even merit a nod among scientists.\" Biologists might argue about mechanisms, but they were in no doubt that a mechanistic explanation was needed. In the 20th century, theistic evolution could take other forms, such as the orthogenesis of Teilhard de Chardin.\n\nOrthogenesis is the hypothesis that life has an innate tendency to change, developing in a unilinear fashion in a particular direction, or simply making some kind of definite progress. Many different versions have been proposed, some such as that of Teilhard de Chardin openly spiritual, others such as Theodor Eimer's apparently simply biological. These theories often combined orthogenesis with other supposed mechanisms. For example, Eimer believed in Lamarckian evolution, but felt that internal laws of growth determined which characteristics would be acquired and would guide the long-term direction of evolution.\n\nOrthogenesis was popular among paleontologists such as Henry Fairfield Osborn. They believed that the fossil record showed unidirectional change, but did not necessarily accept that the mechanism driving orthogenesis was teleological (goal-directed). Osborn argued in his 1918 book \"Origin and Evolution of Life\" that trends in Titanothere horns were both orthogenetic and non-adaptive, and could be detrimental to the organism. For instance, they supposed that the large antlers of the Irish elk had caused its extinction.\n\nSupport for orthogenesis fell during the modern synthesis in the 1940s when it became apparent that it could not explain the complex branching patterns of evolution revealed by statistical analysis of the fossil record. Work in the 21st century has supported the mechanism and existence of mutation-biased adaptation (a form of mutationism), meaning that constrained orthogenesis is now seen as possible. Moreover, the self-organizing processes involved in certain aspects of embryonic development often exhibit stereotypical morphological outcomes, suggesting that evolution will proceed in preferred directions once key molecular components are in place.\n\nJean-Baptiste Lamarck's 1809 evolutionary theory, transmutation of species, was based on a progressive (orthogenetic) drive toward greater complexity. Lamarck also shared the belief, common at the time, that characteristics acquired during an organism's life could be inherited by the next generation, producing adaptation to the environment. Such characteristics were caused by the use or disuse of the affected part of the body. This minor component of Lamarck's theory became known, much later, as Lamarckism. Darwin included \"Effects of the increased Use and Disuse of Parts, as controlled by Natural Selection\" in \"On the Origin of Species\", giving examples such as large ground feeding birds getting stronger legs through exercise, and weaker wings from not flying until, like the ostrich, they could not fly at all. In the late 19th century, neo-Lamarckism was supported by the German biologist Ernst Haeckel, the American paleontologists Edward Drinker Cope and Alpheus Hyatt, and the American entomologist Alpheus Packard. Butler and Cope believed that this allowed organisms to effectively drive their own evolution. Packard argued that the loss of vision in the blind cave insects he studied was best explained through a Lamarckian process of atrophy through disuse combined with inheritance of acquired characteristics. Meanwhile, the English botanist George Henslow studied how environmental stress affected the development of plants, and he wrote that the variations induced by such environmental factors could largely explain evolution; he did not see the need to demonstrate that such variations could actually be inherited. Critics pointed out that there was no solid evidence for the inheritance of acquired characteristics. Instead, the experimental work of the German biologist August Weismann resulted in the germ plasm theory of inheritance, which Weismann said made the inheritance of acquired characteristics impossible, since the Weismann barrier would prevent any changes that occurred to the body after birth from being inherited by the next generation.\n\nIn modern epigenetics, biologists observe that phenotypes depend on heritable changes to gene expression that do not involve changes to the DNA sequence. These changes can cross generations in plants, animals, and prokaryotes. This is not identical to traditional Lamarckism, as the changes do not last indefinitely and do not affect the germ line and hence the evolution of genes.\n\nCatastrophism is the hypothesis, argued by the French anatomist and paleontologist Georges Cuvier in his 1812 \"Recherches sur les ossements fossiles de quadrupèdes\", that the various extinctions and the patterns of faunal succession seen in the fossil record were caused by large-scale natural catastrophes such as volcanic eruptions and, for the most recent extinctions in Eurasia, the inundation of low-lying areas by the sea. This was explained purely by natural events: he did not mention Noah's flood, nor did he ever refer to divine creation as the mechanism for repopulation after an extinction event, though he did not support evolutionary theories such as those of his contemporaries Lamarck and Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire either. Cuvier believed that the stratigraphic record indicated that there had been several such catastrophes, recurring natural events, separated by long periods of stability during the history of life on earth. This led him to believe the Earth was several million years old.\n\nCatastrophism has found a place in modern biology with the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event at the end of the Cretaceous period, as proposed in a paper by \nWalter and Luis Alvarez in 1980. It argued that a asteroid struck Earth 66 million years ago at the end of the Cretaceous period. The event, whatever it was, made about 70% of all species extinct, including the dinosaurs, leaving behind the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary. In 1990, a candidate crater marking the impact was identified at Chicxulub in the Yucatán Peninsula of Mexico.\n\nBiological structuralism objects to an exclusively Darwinian explanation of natural selection, arguing that other mechanisms also guide evolution, and sometimes implying that these supersede selection altogether. Structuralists have proposed different mechanisms that might have guided the formation of body plans. Before Darwin, Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire argued that animals shared homologous parts, and that if one was enlarged, the others would be reduced in compensation. After Darwin, D'Arcy Thompson hinted at vitalism and offered geometric explanations in his classic 1917 book \"On Growth and Form\". Adolf Seilacher suggested mechanical inflation for \"pneu\" structures in Ediacaran biota fossils such as \"Dickinsonia\". Günter P. Wagner argued for developmental bias, structural constraints on embryonic development. Stuart Kauffman favoured self-organisation, the idea that complex structure emerges holistically and spontaneously from the dynamic interaction of all parts of an organism. Michael Denton argued for laws of form by which Platonic universals or \"Types\" are self-organised. In 1979 Stephen J. Gould and Richard Lewontin proposed biological \"spandrels\", features created as a byproduct of the adaptation of nearby structures. Gerd Müller and Stuart Newman argued that the appearance in the fossil record of most of the current phyla in the Cambrian explosion was \"pre-Mendelian\" evolution caused by plastic responses of morphogenetic systems that were partly organized by physical mechanisms. Brian Goodwin, described by Wagner as part of \"a fringe movement in evolutionary biology\", denied that biological complexity can be reduced to natural selection, and argued that pattern formation is driven by morphogenetic fields. Darwinian biologists have criticised structuralism, emphasising that there is plentiful evidence from deep homology that genes have been involved in shaping organisms throughout evolutionary history. They accept that some structures such as the cell membrane self-assemble, but question the ability of self-organisation to drive large-scale evolution.\n\nSaltationism held that new species arise as a result of large mutations. It was seen as a much faster alternative to the Darwinian concept of a gradual process of small random variations being acted on by natural selection. It was popular with early geneticists such as Hugo de Vries, who along with Carl Correns helped rediscover Gregor Mendel's laws of inheritance in 1900, William Bateson, a British zoologist who switched to genetics, and early in his career, Thomas Hunt Morgan. These ideas developed into mutationism, the mutation theory of evolution. This held that species went through periods of rapid mutation, possibly as a result of environmental stress, that could produce multiple mutations, and in some cases completely new species, in a single generation, based on de Vries's experiments with the evening primrose, \"Oenothera\", from 1886. The primroses seemed to be constantly producing new varieties with striking variations in form and color, some of which appeared to be new species because plants of the new generation could only be crossed with one another, not with their parents. However, Hermann Joseph Muller showed in 1918 that the new varieties de Vries had observed were the result of polyploid hybrids rather than rapid genetic mutation.\n\nInitially, de Vries and Morgan believed that mutations were so large as to create new forms such as subspecies or even species instantly. Morgan's 1910 fruit fly experiments, in which he isolated mutations for characteristics such as white eyes, changed his mind. He saw that mutations represented small Mendelian characteristics that would only spread through a population when they were beneficial, helped by natural selection. This represented the germ of the modern synthesis, and the beginning of the end for mutationism as an evolutionary force.\n\nContemporary biologists accept that mutation and selection both play roles in evolution; the mainstream view is that while mutation supplies material for selection in the form of variation, all non-random outcomes are caused by natural selection. Masatoshi Nei argues instead that the production of more efficient genotypes by mutation is fundamental for evolution, and that evolution is often mutation-limited. The endosymbiotic theory implies rare but major events of saltational evolution by symbiogenesis. Carl Woese and colleagues suggested that the absence of RNA signature continuum between domains of bacteria, archaea, and eukarya shows that these major lineages materialized via large saltations in cellular organization.\nSaltation at a variety of scales is agreed to be possible by mechanisms including polyploidy, which certainly can create new species of plant, gene duplication, lateral gene transfer, and transposable elements (jumping genes).\n\nThe neutral theory of molecular evolution, proposed by Motoo Kimura in 1968, holds that at the molecular level most evolutionary changes and most of the variation within and between species is not caused by natural selection but by genetic drift of mutant alleles that are neutral. A neutral mutation is one that does not affect an organism's ability to survive and reproduce. The neutral theory allows for the possibility that most mutations are deleterious, but holds that because these are rapidly purged by natural selection, they do not make significant contributions to variation within and between species at the molecular level. Mutations that are not deleterious are assumed to be mostly neutral rather than beneficial.\n\nThe theory was controversial as it sounded like a challenge to Darwinian evolution; controversy was intensified by a 1969 paper by Jack Lester King and Thomas H. Jukes, provocatively but misleadingly titled \"Non-Darwinian Evolution\". It provided a wide variety of evidence including protein sequence comparisons, studies of the Treffers mutator gene in \"E. coli\", analysis of the genetic code, and comparative immunology, to argue that most protein evolution is due to neutral mutations and genetic drift.\n\nAccording to Kimura, the theory applies only for evolution at the molecular level, while phenotypic evolution is controlled by natural selection, so the neutral theory does not constitute a true alternative.\n\nThe various alternatives to Darwinian evolution by natural selection were not necessarily mutually exclusive. The evolutionary philosophy of the American palaeontologist Edward Drinker Cope is a case in point. Cope, a religious man, began his career denying the possibility of evolution. In the 1860s, he accepted that evolution could occur, but, influenced by Agassiz, rejected natural selection. Cope accepted instead the theory of recapitulation of evolutionary history during the growth of the embryo - that ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny, which Agassiz believed showed a divine plan leading straight up to man, in a pattern revealed both in embryology and palaeontology. Cope did not go so far, seeing that evolution created a branching tree of forms, as Darwin had suggested. Each evolutionary step was however non-random: the direction was determined in advance and had a regular pattern (orthogenesis), and steps were not adaptive but part of a divine plan (theistic evolution). This left unanswered the question of why each step should occur, and Cope switched his theory to accommodate functional adaptation for each change. Still rejecting natural selection as the cause of adaptation, Cope turned to Lamarckism to provide the force guiding evolution. Finally, Cope supposed that Lamarckian use and disuse operated by causing a vitalist growth-force substance, \"bathmism\", to be concentrated in the areas of the body being most intensively used; in turn, it made these areas develop at the expense of the rest. Cope's complex set of beliefs thus assembled five evolutionary philosophies: recapitulationism, orthogenesis, theistic evolution, Lamarckism, and vitalism. Other palaeontologists and field naturalists continued to hold beliefs combining orthogenesis and Lamarckism until the modern synthesis in the 1930s.\n\nBy the start of the 20th century, during the eclipse of Darwinism, biologists were doubtful of natural selection, but equally were quick to discount theories such as orthogenesis, vitalism and Lamarckism which offered no mechanism for evolution. Mutationism did propose a mechanism, but it was not generally accepted. The modern synthesis a generation later, roughly between 1918 and 1932, broadly swept away all the alternatives to Darwinism, though some including forms of orthogenesis, epigenetic mechanisms that resemble Lamarckian inheritance of acquired characteristics, catastrophism, structuralism, and mutationism have been revived, such as through the discovery of molecular mechanisms.\n\nBiology has become Darwinian, but belief in some form of progress (orthogenesis) remains both in the public mind and among biologists. Ruse argues that evolutionary biologists will probably continue to believe in progress for three reasons. Firstly, the anthropic principle demands people able to ask about the process that led to their own existence, as if they were the pinnacle of such progress. Secondly, scientists in general and evolutionists in particular believe that their work is leading them progressively closer to a true grasp of reality, as knowledge increases, and hence (runs the argument) there is progress in nature also. Ruse notes in this regard that Richard Dawkins explicitly compares cultural progress with memes to biological progress with genes. Thirdly, evolutionists are self-selected; they are people, such as the entomologist and sociobiologist E. O. Wilson, who are interested in progress to supply a meaning for life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15012086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15012086", "title": "American mutilation of Japanese war dead", "text": "American mutilation of Japanese war dead\n\nDuring World War II, some members of the United States military mutilated dead Japanese service personnel in the Pacific theater of operations. The mutilation of Japanese service personnel included the taking of body parts as \"war souvenirs\" and \"war trophies\". Teeth and skulls were the most commonly taken \"trophies\", although other body parts were also collected.\n\nThe phenomenon of \"trophy-taking\" was widespread enough that discussion of it featured prominently in magazines and newspapers, and Franklin Roosevelt himself was reportedly given, by U.S. Representative Francis E. Walter, a gift of a letter-opener made of a Japanese soldier's arm (Roosevelt later ordered that the gift be returned and called for its proper burial). The behavior was officially prohibited by the U.S. military, which issued additional guidance as early as 1942 condemning it specifically. Nonetheless, the behavior continued throughout the war in the Pacific Theater, and has resulted in continued discoveries of \"trophy skulls\" of Japanese combatants in American possession, as well as American and Japanese efforts to repatriate the remains of the Japanese dead.\n\nA number of firsthand accounts, including those of American servicemen, attest to the taking of \"trophies\" from the corpses of Imperial Japanese troops in the Pacific Theater during World War II. Historians have attributed the phenomenon to a campaign of dehumanization of the Japanese in the U.S. media, to various racist tropes latent in American society, to the depravity of warfare under desperate circumstances, to the inhuman cruelty of Imperial Japanese forces, lust for revenge, or any combination of those factors. The taking of so-called \"trophies\" was widespread enough that, by September 1942, the Commander in Chief of the Pacific Fleet ordered that \"No part of the enemy's body may be used as a souvenir\", and any American servicemen violating that principle would face \"stern disciplinary action\".\n\nTrophy skulls are the most notorious of the souvenirs. Teeth, ears and other such body parts were occasionally modified, for example by writing on them or fashioning them into utilities or other artifacts.\n\nEugene Sledge relates a few instances of fellow Marines extracting gold teeth from the Japanese, including one from an enemy soldier who was still alive.\n\nBut the Japanese wasn't dead. He had been wounded severely in the back and couldn't move his arms; otherwise he would have resisted to his last breath. The Japanese's mouth glowed with huge gold-crowned teeth, and his captor wanted them. He put the point of his kabar on the base of a tooth and hit the handle with the palm of his hand. Because the Japanese was kicking his feet and thrashing about, the knife point glanced off the tooth and sank deeply into the victim's mouth. The Marine cursed him and with a slash cut his cheeks open to each ear. He put his foot on the sufferer's lower jaw and tried again. Blood poured out of the soldier's mouth. He made a gurgling noise and thrashed wildly. I shouted, “Put the man out of his misery.” All I got for an answer was a cussing out. Another Marine ran up, put a bullet in the enemy soldier's brain, and ended his agony. The scavenger grumbled and continued extracting his prizes undisturbed. \n\nU.S. Marine veteran Donald Fall attributed the mutilation of enemy corpses to hatred and desire for vengeance:\nOn the second day of Guadalcanal we captured a big Jap bivouac with all kinds of beer and supplies ... But they also found a lot of pictures of Marines that had been cut up and mutilated on Wake Island. The next thing you know there are Marines walking around with Jap ears stuck on their belts with safety pins. They issued an order reminding Marines that mutilation was a court-martial offense ... You get into a nasty frame of mind in combat. You see what's been done to you. You'd find a dead Marine that the Japs had booby-trapped. We found dead Japs that were booby-trapped. And they mutilated the dead. We began to get down to their level.\n\nAnother example of mutilation was related by Ore Marion, a U.S. Marine who suggested,\nWe learned about savagery from the Japanese ... But those sixteen-to-nineteen-year old kids we had on the Canal were fast learners ... At daybreak, a couple of our kids, bearded, dirty, skinny from hunger, slightly wounded by bayonets, clothes worn and torn, wack off three Jap heads and jam them on poles facing the 'Jap side' of the river ... The colonel sees Jap heads on the poles and says, 'Jesus men, what are you doing? You're acting like animals.' A dirty, stinking young kid says, 'That's right Colonel, we are animals. We live like animals, we eat and are treated like animals–what the fuck do you expect?'\n\nOn February 1, 1943, \"Life\" magazine published a photograph taken by Ralph Morse during the Guadalcanal campaign showing a severed Japanese head that U.S. Marines had propped up below the gun turret of a tank. \"Life\" received letters of protest from people \"in disbelief that American soldiers were capable of such brutality toward the enemy.\" The editors responded that \"war is unpleasant, cruel, and inhuman. And it is more dangerous to forget this than to be shocked by reminders.\" However, the image of the severed head generated less than half the amount of protest letters that an image of a mistreated cat in the very same issue received. Years later, Morse recounted that when his platoon came upon the tank with the head mounted on it, the sergeant warned his men not to approach it as it might have been set up by the Japanese in order to lure them in for a look. He feared that the Japanese might have a mortar tube zeroed in on it. Morse recalled the scene in this way, \"'Everybody stay away from there,' the sergeant says, then he turns to me. 'You,' he says, 'go take your picture if you have to, then get out, quick.' So I went over, got my pictures and ran like hell back to where the patrol had stopped.\"\n\nIn October 1943, the U.S. High Command expressed alarm over recent newspaper articles, for example one where a soldier made a string of beads using Japanese teeth, and another about a soldier with pictures showing the steps in preparing a skull, involving cooking and scraping of the Japanese heads.\n\nIn 1944, the American poet Winfield Townley Scott was working as a reporter in Rhode Island when a sailor displayed his skull trophy in the newspaper office. This led to the poem \"The U.S. sailor with the Japanese skull\", which described one method for preparation of skulls (the head is skinned, towed in a net behind a ship to clean and polish it, and in the end scrubbed with caustic soda).\n\nCharles Lindbergh refers in his diary entries to several instances of mutilations. For example, in the entry for August 14, 1944, he notes a conversation he had with a Marine officer, who claimed that he had seen many Japanese corpses with an ear or nose cut off. In the case of the skulls however, most were not collected from freshly killed Japanese; most came from already partially or fully skeletonised Japanese bodies. Lindbergh also noted in his diary his experiences from an air base in New Guinea, where according to him the troops killed the remaining Japanese stragglers \"as a sort of hobby\" and often used their leg-bones to carve utilities.\n\nMoro Muslim guerillas on Mindanao fought against Japan in World War II. The Moro Muslim Datu Pino sliced the ears off Japanese soldiers and cashed them in with the American guerilla leader Colonel Fertig at the exchange rate of a pair of ears for one bullet and 20 centavos.\n\nAccording to Weingartner it is not possible to determine the percentage of U.S. troops that collected Japanese body parts, \"but it is clear that the practice was not uncommon\". According to Harrison only a minority of U.S. troops collected Japanese body parts as trophies, but \"their behaviour reflected attitudes which were very widely shared\". According to Dower, most U.S. combatants in the Pacific did not engage in \"souvenir hunting\" for bodyparts. The majority had some knowledge that these practices were occurring, however, and \"accepted them as inevitable under the circumstances\". The incidence of soldiers collecting Japanese body parts occurred on \"a scale large enough to concern the Allied military authorities throughout the conflict and was widely reported and commented on in the American and Japanese wartime press\". The degree of acceptance of the practice varied between units. Taking of teeth was generally accepted by enlisted men and also by officers, while acceptance for taking other body parts varied greatly. In the experience of one serviceman turned author, Weinstein, ownership of skulls and teeth were widespread practices.\n\nWhen interviewed by researchers former servicemen have related to the practice of taking gold teeth from the dead – and sometimes also from the living – as having been widespread.\n\nThere is some disagreement between historians over what the more common forms of 'trophy hunting' undertaken by U.S. personnel were. John W. Dower states that ears were the most common form of trophy that was taken, and skulls and bones were less commonly collected. In particular he states that \"skulls were not popular trophies\" as they were difficult to carry and the process for removing the flesh was offensive. This view is supported by Simon Harrison. In contrast, Niall Ferguson states that \"boiling the flesh off enemy [Japanese] skulls to make souvenirs was not an uncommon practice. Ears, bones and teeth were also collected\".\n\nThe collection of Japanese body parts began quite early in the campaign, prompting a September 1942 order for disciplinary action against such souvenir taking. Harrison concludes that since this was the first real opportunity to take such items (the Battle of Guadalcanal), \"Clearly, the collection of body parts on a scale large enough to concern the military authorities had started as soon as the first living or dead Japanese bodies were encountered.\" When Charles Lindbergh passed through customs at Hawaii in 1944, one of the customs declarations he was asked to make was whether or not he was carrying any bones. He was told after expressing some shock at the question that it had become a routine point. This was because of the large number of souvenir bones discovered in customs, also including “green” (uncured) skulls.\n\nIn 1984, Japanese soldiers' remains were repatriated from the Mariana Islands. Roughly 60 percent were missing their skulls. Likewise it has been reported that many of the Japanese remains on Iwo Jima are missing their skulls. It is possible that the souvenir collection of remains continued also in the immediate post-war period.\n\nAccording to Simon Harrison, all of the \"trophy skulls\" from the World War II era in the forensic record in the U.S., attributable to an ethnicity, are of Japanese origin; none come from Europe (a seemingly rare exception to this rule was the case of a German soldier scalped by an American soldier, falsely attributed to a Winnebago tribal custom. Films shot by the Special Film Project 186 near Prague, Czechoslovakia, on May 8, 1945, display an M4 Sherman with a skull and bones fixed to it). Skulls from World War II, and also from the Vietnam War, continue turning up in the U.S., sometimes returned by former servicemen or their relatives, or discovered by police. According to Harrison, contrary to the situation in average head-hunting societies, the trophies do not fit in American society. While the taking of the objects was socially accepted at the time, after the war, when the Japanese in time became seen as fully human again, the objects for the most part became seen as unacceptable and unsuitable for display. Therefore, in time they and the practice that had generated them were largely forgotten.\n\nAustralian soldiers also mutilated Japanese bodies at times, most commonly by taking gold teeth from corpses. This was officially discouraged by the Australian Army. Johnston states that \"one could argue that greed rather than hatred was the motive\" for this behavior, but \"utter contempt for the enemy was also present\". Australians are also known to have taken gold teeth from German corpses, \"but the practice was obviously more common in the South-West Pacific\". \"The vast majority of Australians clearly found such behaviour abhorrent, but \"some of the soldiers who engaged in it were not 'hard cases'. According to Johnston, Australian soldiers' \"unusually murderous behavior\" towards their Japanese opponents (such as killing prisoners) was caused by racism, a lack of understanding of Japanese military culture and, most significantly, a desire to take revenge against the murder and mutilation of Australian prisoners and native New Guineans during the Battle of Milne Bay and subsequent battles.\n\nFrom the Burma Campaign, there are recorded instances of British troops removing gold teeth and displaying Japanese skulls as trophies.\n\nIn the U.S., there was a widely propagated view that the Japanese were subhuman. There was also popular anger in the U.S. at the Japanese surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, amplifying pre-war racial prejudices. The U.S. media helped propagate this view of the Japanese, for example describing them as \"yellow vermin\". In an official U.S. Navy film, Japanese troops were described as \"living, snarling rats\". The mixture of underlying American racism, which was added to by U.S. wartime propaganda, hatred caused by the Japanese war of aggression, and both real and also fabricated Japanese atrocities, led to a general loathing of the Japanese. Although there were objections to the mutilation from among other military jurists, \"to many Americans the Japanese adversary was no more than an animal, and abuse of his remains carried with it no moral stigma.\n\nAccording to Niall Ferguson: \"To the historian who has specialized in German history, this is one of the most troubling aspects of the Second World War: the fact that Allied troops often regarded the Japanese in the same way that Germans regarded Russians — as \"Untermenschen\".\" Since the Japanese were regarded as animals, it is not surprising that Japanese remains were treated in the same way as animal remains.\n\nSimon Harrison comes to the conclusion in his paper, \"Skull trophies of the Pacific War: transgressive objects of remembrance\", that the minority of U.S. personnel who collected Japanese skulls did so because they came from a society that placed much value in hunting as a symbol of masculinity, combined with a de-humanization of the enemy.\n\nWar correspondent Ernie Pyle, on a trip to Saipan after the invasion, claimed that the men who actually fought the Japanese did not subscribe to the wartime propaganda: \"Soldiers and Marines have told me stories by the dozen about how tough the Japs are, yet how dumb they are; how illogical and yet how uncannily smart at times; how easy to rout when disorganized, yet how brave ... As far as I can see, our men are no more afraid of the Japs than they are of the Germans. They are afraid of them as a modern soldier is afraid of his foe, but not because they are slippery or rat-like, but simply because they have weapons and fire them like good, tough soldiers.\"\n\nSome writers and veterans state that body parts trophy and souvenir taking was a side effect of the brutalizing effects of a harsh campaign.\n\nHarrison argues that, while brutalization could explain part of the mutilations, this explanation does not explain servicemen who, even before shipping off for the Pacific, proclaimed their intention to acquire such objects. According to Harrison, it also does not explain the many cases of servicemen collecting the objects as gifts for people back home. Harrison concludes that there is no evidence that the average serviceman collecting this type of souvenirs was suffering from \"combat fatigue\". They were normal men who felt this was what their loved ones wanted them to collect for them. Skulls were sometimes also collected as souvenirs by non-combat personnel.\n\nA young Marine recruit, who had arrived on Saipan with his buddy Al in 1944, after the island was secure, provides an eyewitness account. After a brief firefight the night before, he and a small group of other Marines find the body of a straggler who had apparently shot himself:\n\nBergerud writes that U.S. troops hostility towards their Japanese opponents largely arose from incidents in which Japanese soldiers committed war crimes against Americans, such as the Bataan Death March and other incidents conducted by individual soldiers. For instance, Bergerud states that the U.S. Marines on Guadacanal were aware that the Japanese had beheaded some of the Marines captured on Wake Island prior to the start of the campaign. However this type of knowledge did not necessarily lead to revenge mutilations; one Marine states that they falsely thought the Japanese had not taken any prisoners at Wake Island, and therefore as revenge they killed all Japanese that tried to surrender. (see also Allied war crimes during World War II)\n\nAccording to one Marine, the earliest account of U.S. troops wearing ears from Japanese corpses he recounts took place on the second day of the Guadalcanal Campaign in August 1942 and occurred after photos of the mutilated bodies of Marines on Wake Island were found in Japanese engineers' personal effects. The account of the same Marine also states that Japanese troops booby-trapped some of their own dead as well as some dead Marines, and also mutilated corpses; the effect on Marines being \"We began to get down to their level\". According to Bradley A. Thayer, referring to Bergerud and interviews conducted by Bergerud, the behaviors of American and Australian soldiers were affected by \"intense fear, coupled with a powerful lust for revenge\".\n\nWeingartner writes however that U.S. Marines were intent on taking gold teeth and making keepsakes of Japanese ears already while en route to Guadalcanal.\n\nFactors relevant to the collection of body parts were their economic value, the desire both of the \"folks back home\" for a souvenir and of the servicemen themselves to have a keepsake when they returned home.\n\nSome of the collected souvenir bones were modified, e.g. turned into letter-openers, and may be an extension of trench art.\n\nPictures showing the \"cooking and scraping\" of Japanese heads may have formed part of the large set of Guadalcanal photographs sold to sailors which were circulating on the U.S. West-coast. According to Paul Fussel, pictures showing this type of activity, i.e. boiling human heads; \"were taken (and preserved for a lifetime) because the Marines were proud of their success\".\n\nAccording to Weingartner, some of the U.S. Marines who were about to take part in the Guadalcanal Campaign were already while en route looking forward to collecting Japanese gold teeth for necklaces and to preserving Japanese ears as souvenirs.\n\nIn many cases (and unexplainable by battlefield conditions) the collected body parts were not for the use of the collector but were instead meant to be gifts to family and friends at home, in some cases as the result of specific requests from home. Newspapers reported of cases such as a mother requesting permission for her son to send her an ear or a bribed chaplain that was promised by an underage youth \"the third pair of ears he collected\". A better-known example of those servicemen who left for battle already planning to send home a trophy is the \"Life Magazine\" picture of the week, whose caption begins:\n\nAnother example of this type of press is \"Yank\", that in early 1943 published a cartoon showing the parents of a soldier receiving a pair of ears from their son. In 1942 Alan Lomax recorded a blues song where a black soldier promises to send his child a Japanese skull, and a tooth. Harrison also makes note of the Congressman that gave President Roosevelt a letter-opener carved out of bone as examples of the social range of these attitudes.\n\nTrade sometimes occurred with the items, such as \"members of the Naval Construction Battalions stationed on Guadalcanal selling Japanese skulls to merchant seamen\" as reported in an Allied intelligence report from early 1944. Sometimes teeth (particularly the less common gold teeth) were also seen as a trade-able commodity.\n\n\"Stern disciplinary action\" against human remains souvenir taking was ordered by the Commander-in-Chief of the Pacific Fleet as early as September 1942. In October 1943 General George C. Marshall radioed General Douglas MacArthur about \"his concern over current reports of atrocities committed by American soldiers\". In January 1944 the Joint Chiefs of Staff issued a directive against the taking of Japanese body parts. Simon Harrison writes that directives of this type may have been effective in some areas, \"but they seem to have been implemented only partially and unevenly by local commanders\".\nOn May 22, 1944, \"Life Magazine\" published a photo of an American girl with a Japanese skull sent to her by her naval officer boyfriend. The letters \"Life\" received from its readers in response to this photo were \"overwhelmingly condemnatory\" and the Army directed its Bureau of Public Relations to inform U.S. publishers that \"the publication of such stories would be likely to encourage the enemy to take reprisals against American dead and prisoners of war\". The junior officer who had sent the skull was also traced and officially reprimanded. This was done reluctantly however, and the punishment was not severe.\n\nThe \"Life\" photo also led to the U.S. Military taking further action against the mutilation of Japanese corpses. In a memorandum dated June 13, 1944, the Army JAG asserted that \"such atrocious and brutal policies\" in addition to being repugnant also were violations of the laws of war, and recommended the distribution to all commanders of a directive pointing out that \"the maltreatment of enemy war dead was a blatant violation of the 1929 Geneva Convention on the Sick and Wounded, which provided that: After each engagement, the occupant of the field of battle shall take measures to search for the wounded and dead, and to protect them against pillage and maltreatment.\" Such practices were in addition also in violation of the unwritten customary rules of land warfare and could lead to the death penalty. The Navy JAG mirrored that opinion one week later, and also added that \"the atrocious conduct of which some U.S. servicemen were guilty could lead to retaliation by the Japanese which would be justified under international law\".\n\nOn June 13, 1944, the press reported that President Roosevelt had been presented with a letter-opener made out of a Japanese soldier's arm bone by Francis E. Walter, a Democratic congressman. Supposedly, the president commented, \"This is the sort of gift I like to get\", and \"There'll be plenty more such gifts\". Several weeks later it was reported that it had been given back with the explanation that the President did not want this type of object and recommended it be buried instead. In doing so, Roosevelt was acting in response to the concerns which had been expressed by the military authorities and some of the civilian population, including church leaders.\n\nIn October 1944, the Right Rev. Henry St. George Tucker, the Presiding Bishop of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America, issued a statement which deplored \"'isolated' acts of desecration with respect to the bodies of slain Japanese soldiers and appealed to American soldiers as a group to discourage such actions on the part of individuals\".\n\nNews that President Roosevelt had been given a bone letter-opener by a congressman was widely reported in Japan. The Americans were portrayed as \"deranged, primitive, racist and inhuman\". This reporting was compounded by the previous May 22, 1944, \"Life\" magazine picture of the week publication of a young woman with a skull trophy, which was reprinted in the Japanese media and presented as a symbol of American barbarism, causing national shock and outrage. Edwin P. Hoyt in \"Japan's War: The Great Pacific Conflict\" argues that two U.S. media reports of Japanese skulls and bones being sent home were exploited by Japanese propaganda very effectively, and this coupled to the Shinto religion, which places much higher emotional value on the treatment of human remains, contributed to a preference to death over surrender and occupation, shown, for example, in the mass civilian suicides on Saipan and Okinawa after the Allied landings. According to Hoyt, \"The thought of a Japanese soldier's skull becoming an American ashtray was as horrifying in Tokyo as the thought of an American prisoner used for bayonet practice was in New York.\"\n\nSome historians argue that a similar pattern of Asian dehumanization persisted in the Korean and Vietnam Wars, even though, like World War II, Asians were on both sides of those wars. In Vietnam, the supposed \"Mere Gook Rule\" allowed soldiers to harm or kill South Vietnamese citizens with little fear of punishment.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20750674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20750674", "title": "Aristocracy (class)", "text": "Aristocracy (class)\n\nThe aristocracy is a social class that a particular society considers its highest order. In many states, the aristocracy included the upper class of people (\"aristocrats\") with hereditary rank and titles. In some—such as ancient Greece, Rome and India—aristocratic status came from belonging to a military caste, although it has also been common, notably in African societies, for aristocrats to belong to priestly dynasties. Aristocratic status can involve feudal or legal privileges. They are usually below only the monarch of a country or nation in its social hierarchy. In modern European societies, the aristocracy has often coincided with the nobility, a specific class that arose in the Middle Ages, but the term \"aristocracy\" is sometimes also applied to other elites, and is used as a more generic term when describing earlier and non-European societies.\n\nThe term \"aristocracy\" derives from the Greek ἀριστοκρατία (\"aristokratia\" from ἄριστος (\"aristos\") \"excellent,\" and κράτος (\"kratos\") \"power.\" In most cases, aristocratic titles were and are hereditary.\n\nThe term \"aristokratia\" was first used in Athens with reference to young citizens (the men of the ruling class) who led armies at the front line. Due to martial bravery being highly regarded as a virtue in ancient Greece, it was assumed that the armies were being led by \"the best.\" This virtue was called \"arete\" (ἀρετή). Etymologically, as the word developed, it also produced a more political term: \"aristoi\" (ἄριστοι). The term aristocracy is a compound word stemming from the singular of aristoi, \"aristos\" (ἄριστος), and the Greek word for power, \"kratos\" (κράτος).\n\nFrom the ancient Greeks, the term passed to the European Middle Ages for a similar \"hereditary class\" of military leaders, often referred to as the nobility. As in Greece, this was a class of privileged men and women whose familial connections to the regional armies allowed them to present themselves as the most \"noble\" or \"best\" of society.\n\nHistorically, the status and privileges of the aristocracy in Europe were below royalty and above all non-aristocrats.\n\nThe French Revolution attacked aristocrats as people who had achieved their status by having been born in a wealthy family rather than by merit, and this was considered unjust. In the United Kingdom and other European countries, such as Spain and Denmark, in which hereditary titles are still recognised, \"aristocrat\" still refers to the descendant of one of approximately 7,000 families with hereditary titles, many still in possession of considerable wealth.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, members of the highest echelon of the aristocracy, the hereditary peers were, until 1999, members of the House of Lords—the upper house of the legislature, the Parliament of the United Kingdom. In 1999, most ceased to be members. However, the Duke of Norfolk, who always serves as Earl Marshal, the hereditary peer who serves as Lord Great Chamberlain (currently the Marquess of Cholmondeley), and a further 90 Representative Hereditary Peers elected by the Hereditary Peers retained membership. Since 1958, non-hereditary \"life peers\" have been created, who are automatically members of the House of Lords for life with the right to be known by their title. For example, John Gummer became (The Rt Hon.) Lord Deben.\n\nHowever, life peers are not considered part of the aristocracy, nor are knights, unless born into an aristocratic or landed gentry family. Examples include James Douglas-Hamilton, Baron Selkirk of Douglas, and Sir Winston Churchill—all born into aristocratic families. Besides the hereditary peers, the gentry (consisting of baronets, Scottish barons, lairds, esquires, gentlemen, and any other untitled landowning armigerous families) are also considered part of the aristocracy. Unlike the Continental untitled nobility, British untitled families that belong to the gentry have no legal recognition of their aristocratic position.\n\nUnder the rule of the Mughal Empire, the titles for those under a king were borrowed from Persia. These titles of landed aristocracy include \"jagirdar\", \"thikanadar\", \"talukdar\", and \"zamindar\".\n\nMany landholding families either held legal or administrative offices, and were sometimes considered the Indian version of the Nobility of the Robe. The princes appointed officers, such as \"dewan\" and other state level ministers, to run their administrations, who were considered members of the regional nobility. Most of these officers were either relatives of the princes who appointed them, or were themselves substantial landlords under the sovereignty of the Princely States, and most held hereditary titles. Sometimes, educated men belonging to the British Imperial Services were also appointed to the high offices of the Princely States, but their positions were not hereditary and they were seen as career bureaucrats rather than noblemen by their employers.\n\nToday, aristocratic titles like Taluqdar, Rai, Rao, Roy, Chaudhary, Sardar, Zaildar, Jagirdar, Tarafdar, Thakur, Nair, Madampi are still used in the Indian Subcontinent.\n\nDeriving mostly from the pre-colonial states of the region that would become known as Nigeria, the legally recognised titles of the Nigerian aristocracy range from \"king\" to the ubiquitous \"chief\". They give their bearers no political authority in theory, but in practice allow them to serve as immensely powerful patrons of the country's political leaders due to their control of popular opinion within its various tribes. Along with those of their titled relatives and courtiers, they also serve as the guiding forces behind Nigerian cultural and religious ceremonies. \n\nTitles such as Oba, Amanyanaboh, Mai, Obong, Sarki, Attah, and Obi are used by the dynastic heads, while \"prince\" and \"princess\" are either used in their English forms or in their native ones by the dynasts of their houses. Their privy counsellors, meanwhile, tend to be called either \"chiefs\" or \"elders\" depending on what their monarchs are themselves called, with chiefs serving under a ruler who is called a king and elders serving under one called a chief.\n\nThe nobility of China was an important feature of the traditional social and political organization of Imperial China. While the concepts of hereditary sovereign and peerage titles and noble families were featured as early as the semi-mythical early historical period, a settled system of nobility was established from the Zhou dynasty. In the subsequent millennia, this system was largely maintained in form, with some changes and additions, although the content constantly evolved. The last well-developed system of noble titles was established under the Qing dynasty.\n\n"}
{"id": "34529648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34529648", "title": "Bloch's principle", "text": "Bloch's principle\n\nBloch's Principle is a philosophical principle in mathematics\nstated by André Bloch.\n\nBloch states the principle in Latin as: \"Nihil est in infinito quod non prius fuerit in finito,\" and explains this as follows: Every proposition in whose statement the actual infinity occurs can be always considered a consequence, almost immediate, of a proposition where it does not occur, a proposition in \"finite terms\".\n\nBloch mainly applied this principle to the theory of functions of a complex variable. Thus, for example, according to this principle, Picard's theorem corresponds to Schottky's theorem, and Valiron's theorem corresponds to Bloch's theorem.\n\nBased on his Principle, Bloch was able to predict or conjecture several\nimportant results such as the Ahlfors's Five Islands theorem,\nCartan's theorem on holomorphic curves omitting hyperplanes, Hayman's result that an exceptional set of radii is unavoidable in Nevanlinna theory.\n\nIn the more recent times several general theorems were proved which can be regarded as rigorous statements in the spirit of the Bloch Principle.\n\nLet formula_1 be a sequence of meromorphic functions in a region \"D\", which is not a normal family.\nThen there exist a sequence of points formula_2 in \"D\" and positive numbers formula_3 with formula_4 such that\n\nwhere \"f\" is a non-constant meromorphic function in the complex plane.\n\nLet \"X\" be a compact complex analytic manifold, such that every holomorphic map from the complex plane\nto \"X\" is constant. Then there exists a metric on \"X\" such that every holomorphic map from the unit disc with the Poincaré metric to \"X\" does not increase distances.\n"}
{"id": "1072573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1072573", "title": "Calculus of negligence", "text": "Calculus of negligence\n\nIn the United States, the calculus of negligence, also known as the Hand rule, Hand formula, or BPL formula, is a term coined by Judge Learned Hand and describes a process for determining whether a legal duty of care has been breached (see negligence). The original description of the calculus was in \"United States v. Carroll Towing Co.\", in which an improperly secured barge had drifted away from a pier and caused damage to several other boats.\n\nHand stated:\n\nThis relationship has been formalized by the law and economics school as such: an act is in breach of the duty of care if:\n\nwhere \"B\" is the cost (burden) of taking precautions, and \"P\" is the probability of loss (\"L\"). \"L\" is the gravity of loss. The product of P x L must be a greater amount than B to create a duty of due care for the defendant.\n\nThe calculus of negligence is based on the Coase theorem. The tort system acts as if, before the injury or damage, a contract had been made between the parties under the assumption that a rational, cost-minimizing individual will not spend money on taking precautions if those precautions are more expensive than the costs of the harm that they prevent. In other words, rather than spending money on safety, the individual will simply allow harm to occur and pay for the costs of that harm, because that will be more cost-efficient than taking precautions. This represents cases where B is greater than PL.\n\nIf the harm could be avoided for \"less\" than the cost of the harm (B is less than PL), then the individual \"should\" take the precautions, rather than allowing the harm to occur. If precautions were not taken, we find that a legal duty of care has been breached, and we impose liability on the individual to pay for the harm.\n\nThis approach, in theory, leads to an optimal allocation of resources; where harm can be cheaply avoided, the legal system requires precautions. Where precautions are prohibitively expensive, it does not. In marginal-cost terms, we require individuals to invest one unit of precautions up until the point that those precautions prevent exactly one unit of harm, and no less.\n\nCritics point out that term \"gravity of loss (L)\" is vague, and could entail a wide variety of damages, from a scratched fender to several dead victims. Even then, on top of that, how exactly a juror should determine a value for such a loss is abstract in itself. The speculative nature of the rule also seizes upon how a juror should determine the probability of loss (P).\n\nAdditionally, the rule fails to account for possible alternatives, whether it be the use of alternate methods to reach the same outcome, or abandoning the risky activity altogether.\n\nHuman teams estimating risk need to guard against judgment errors, cf. absolute probability judgement.\n\nIn the U.S., juries, with guidance from the court, decide what particular acts or omissions constitute negligence, so a reference to the standard of ordinary care removes the need to discuss this moot \"rule\". Juries are not told this \"rule\" but essentially use their common sense to decide what an ordinarily careful person would have done under the circumstances. The \"calculus of negligence\" has less practical value for the lay researcher seeking to understand how the courts actually determine negligence cases in the United States than the jury instructions used by the courts in the individual states.\n\nOutside legal proceedings, this rule is the core premise of insurance, risk management, quality assurance, information security and privacy practices. It factors into due care and due diligence decisions in business risk. Restrictions exist in the cases where the loss applies to human life or the probability of adverse finding in court cases. One famous case of abuse by industry in recent years related to the Ford Pinto.\n\nQuality assurance techniques extend the use of probability and loss to include uncertainty bounds in each quantity and possible interactions between uncertainty in probability and impact for two purposes. First, to more accurately model customer acceptance and process reliability to produce wanted outcomes. Second, to seek cost effective factors either up or down stream of the event that produce better results at sustainably reduced costs. Example, simply providing a protective rail near a cliff also includes quality manufacture features of the rail as part of the solution. Reasonable signs warning of the risk before persons reach the cliff may actually be more effective in reducing fatalities than the rail itself.\n\nIn Australia, the calculus of negligence is a normative judgement with no formula or rule.\n\nIn NSW, the test is how a reasonable person (or other standard of care) would respond to the risk in the circumstances considering the 'probability that the harm would occur if care were not taken' and, 'the likely seriousness of the harm', 'the burden of taking precautions to avoid the risk of harm', and the 'social utility of the activity that creates the risk of harm'. State and Territory legislatures require that the social utility of the activity that creates the risk of harm be taken into account in determining whether or not a reasonable person would have taken precautions against that risk of harm. For example, in \"Haris v Bulldogs Rugby League Club Limited\" the court considered the social utility of holding football matches when determining whether a football club took sufficient precautions to protect spectators from the risk of being struck by fireworks set off as part of the entertainment during a game.\n"}
{"id": "2723436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2723436", "title": "Castigation", "text": "Castigation\n\nCastigation (from the Latin \"castigatio\") or chastisement (via the French \"châtiment\") is the infliction of severe (moral or corporal) punishment. One who administers a castigation is a castigator or \"chastiser\". \n\nIn earlier times, castigation specifically meant restoring one to a religiously pure state, called chastity. In ancient Rome, it was also a term for the magistrate called a censor (in the original sense, rather than the later politicized evolution), who castigated in the name of the pagan state religion but with the authority of the 'pious' state.\n\nIn Christian times, this terminology was adopted but roughly restricted to the physical sphere: chastity became a matter of approved sexual conduct, castigation usually meaning physical punishment, either as a form of penance, as a voluntary pious exercise (see mortification of the flesh) or as educational or other coercion, while the use for other (e.g. verbal) punishments (and criticism etc.) is now often perceived as metaphorical.\n\nSelf-castigation is applied by the repentant culprit to himself, for moral and/or religious reasons, notably as penance.\n\n"}
{"id": "42437083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42437083", "title": "Class conflict", "text": "Class conflict\n\nClass conflict, frequently referred to as class warfare or class struggle, is the tension or antagonism which exists in society due to competing socioeconomic interests and desires between people of different classes. The view that the class struggle provides the lever for radical social change for the majority is central to the work of Karl Marx and Mikhail Bakunin.\n\nClass conflict can take many different forms: direct violence, such as wars fought for resources and cheap labor; indirect violence, such as deaths from poverty, starvation, illness or unsafe working conditions; coercion, such as the threat of losing a job or the pulling of an important investment; or ideologically, such as with books and articles. Additionally, political forms of class conflict exist; legally or illegally lobbying or bribing government leaders for passage of desirable partisan legislation including labor laws, tax codes, consumer laws, acts of congress or other sanction, injunction or tariff. The conflict can be direct, as with a lockout aimed at destroying a labor union, or indirect, as with an informal slowdown in production protesting low wages by workers or unfair labor practices by capital.\n\nIn the past the term \"Class conflict\" was a term used mostly by socialists and Marxists, who define a class by its relationship to the means of production—such as factories, land and machinery. From this point of view, the social control of production and labor is a contest between classes, and the division of these resources necessarily involves conflict and inflicts harm. It can involve ongoing low-level clashes, escalate into massive confrontations, and in some cases, lead to the overall defeat of one of the contending classes. However, in more contemporary times this term is striking chords and finding new definition amongst capitalistic societies in the United States and other Westernized countries.\n\nThe anarchist Mikhail Bakunin argued that the class struggle of the working class, peasantry and poor had the potential to lead to a social revolution involving the overthrow of ruling elites, and the creation of libertarian socialism. This was only a potential, and class struggle was, he argued, not always the only or decisive factor in society, but it was central. By contrast, Marxists argue that class conflict always plays the decisive and pivotal role in the history of class-based hierarchical systems such as capitalism and feudalism. Marxists refer to its overt manifestations as class war, a struggle whose resolution in favor of the working class is viewed by them as inevitable under plutocratic capitalism.\n\nWhere societies are socially divided based on status, wealth, or control of social production and distribution, class structures arise and are thus coeval with civilization itself. It is well documented since at least European Classical Antiquity (Conflict of the Orders, Spartacus, etc.) and the various popular uprisings in late medieval Europe and elsewhere.\n\nOne of the earliest analysis of these conflicts is Friedrich Engels' The Peasant War in Germany. One of the earliest analyses of the development of class as the development of conflicts between emergent classes is available in Peter Kropotkin's \"\". In this work, Kropotkin analyzes the disposal of goods after death in pre-class or hunter-gatherer societies, and how inheritance produces early class divisions and conflict.\n\nBill Moyers, for example, gave a speech at Brennan Center for Justice in December 2013 which was titled \"The Great American Class War,\" referring to the current struggle between democracy and plutocracy in the U.S. Chris Hedges wrote a column for \"Truthdig\" called \"Let's Get This Class War Started,\" which was a play on Pink's song \"Let's Get This Party Started.\"\n\nHistorian Steve Fraser, author of \"The Age of Acquiescence: The Life and Death of American Resistance to Organized Wealth and Power\", asserts that class conflict is an inevitability if current political and economic conditions continue, noting that “people are increasingly fed up… their voices are not being heard. And I think that can only go on for so long without there being more and more outbreaks of what used to be called class struggle, class warfare.”\n\nThe typical example of class conflict described is class conflict within capitalism. This class conflict is seen to occur primarily between the bourgeoisie and the proletariat, and takes the form of conflict over hours of work, value of wages, division of profits, cost of consumer goods, the culture at work, control over parliament or bureaucracy, and economic inequality. The particular implementation of government programs which may seem purely humanitarian, such as disaster relief, can actually be a form of class conflict. In the USA class conflict is often noted in labor/management disputes. As far back as 1933 representative Edward Hamilton of ALPA, the Airline Pilot's Association, used the term \"class warfare\" to describe airline management's opposition at the National Labor Board hearings in October of that year. Apart from these day-to-day forms of class conflict, during periods of crisis or revolution class conflict takes on a violent nature and involves repression, assault, restriction of civil liberties, and murderous violence such as assassinations or death squads. (Zinn, \"People's History\")\n\nAlthough Thomas Jefferson (1743–1826) led the United States as president from 1801–1809 and is considered one of the founding fathers, he died with immense amounts of debt. Regarding the interaction between social classes, he wrote,\n\nThe investor, and billionaire , and philanthropist Warren Buffett, one of the 10 wealthiest persons in the world, voiced in 2005 and once more in 2006 his view that his class – the \"rich class\" – is waging class warfare on the rest of society. In 2005 Buffet said to CNN: \"\"It's class warfare, my class is winning, but they shouldn't be.\" In a November 2006 interview in \"The New York Times\", Buffett stated that \"[t]here’s class warfare all right, but it’s my class, the rich class, that’s making war, and we’re winning.\"\" Later Warren gave away more than half of his fortune to charitable causes through a program developed by himself and computer software tycoon Bill Gates. In 2011 Buffett called on government legislators to, \"...stop coddling the super rich.\"\n\nNoam Chomsky, American linguist, philosopher, and political activist has criticized class war in the United States:\n\nMax Weber (1864–1920) agrees with the fundamental ideas of Karl Marx about the economy causing class conflict, but claims that class conflict can also stem from prestige and power. Weber argues that classes come from the different property locations. Different locations can largely affect one's class by their education and the people they associate with. He also states that prestige results in different status groupings. This prestige is based upon the social status of one's parents. Prestige is an attributed value and many times cannot be changed. Weber states that power differences led to the formation of political parties. Weber disagrees with Marx about the formation of classes. While Marx believes that groups are similar due to their economic status, Weber argues that classes are largely formed by social status. Weber does not believe that communities are formed by economic standing, but by similar social prestige. Weber does recognize that there is a relationship between social status, social prestige and classes.\n\nNumerous factors have culminated in what's known as the Arab Spring. Agenda behind the civil unrest, and the ultimate overthrow of authoritarian governments throughout the Middle-East included issues such as dictatorship or absolute monarchy, human rights violations, government corruption (demonstrated by Wikileaks diplomatic cables), economic decline, unemployment, extreme poverty, and a number of demographic structural factors, such as a large percentage of educated but dissatisfied youth within the population. Also, some, like Slovenian philosopher Slavoj Žižek attribute the 2009 Iranian protests as one of the reasons behind the Arab Spring. The catalysts for the revolts in all Northern African and Persian Gulf countries have been the concentration of wealth in the hands of autocrats in power for decades, insufficient transparency of its redistribution, corruption, and especially the refusal of the youth to accept the status quo. as they involve threats to food security worldwide and prices that approach levels of the 2007–2008 world food price crisis. Amnesty International singled out WikiLeaks' release of US diplomatic cables as a catalyst for the revolts.\n\nKarl Marx (1818–1883) was a German born philosopher who lived the majority of his adult life in London, England. In \"The Communist Manifesto\", Karl Marx argued that a class is formed when its members achieve class consciousness and solidarity. This largely happens when the members of a class become aware of their exploitation and the conflict with another class. A class will then realize their shared interests and a common identity. According to Marx, a class will then take action against those that are exploiting the lower classes.\n\nWhat Marx points out is that members of each of the two main classes have interests in common. These class or collective interests are in conflict with those of the other class as a whole. This in turn leads to conflict between individual members of different classes.\n\nMarxist analysis of society identifies two main social groups: \n\nNot all class struggle is violent or necessarily radical, as with strikes and lockouts. Class antagonism may instead be expressed as low worker morale, minor sabotage and pilferage, and individual workers' abuse of petty authority and hoarding of information. It may also be expressed on a larger scale by support for socialist or populist parties. On the employers' side, the use of union busting legal firms and the lobbying for anti-union laws are forms of class struggle.\n\nNot all class struggle is a threat to capitalism, or even to the authority of an individual capitalist. A narrow struggle for higher wages by a small sector of the working-class, what is often called \"economism\", hardly threatens the status quo. In fact, by applying the craft-union tactics of excluding other workers from skilled trades, an economistic struggle may even weaken the working class as a whole by dividing it. Class struggle becomes more important in the historical process as it becomes more general, as industries are organized rather than crafts, as workers' class consciousness rises, and as they self-organize away from political parties. Marx referred to this as the progress of the proletariat from being a class \"in itself\", a position in the social structure, to being one \"for itself\",an active and conscious force that could change the world.\n\nMarx largely focuses on the capital industrialist society as the source of social stratification, which ultimately results in class conflict. He states that capitalism creates a division between classes which can largely be seen in manufacturing factories. The proletariat, is separated from the bourgeoisie because production becomes a social enterprise. Contributing to their separation is the technology that is in factories. Technology de-skills and alienates workers as they are no longer viewed as having a specialized skill. Another effect of technology is a homogenous workforce that can be easily replaceable. Marx believed that this class conflict would result in the overthrow of the bourgeoisie and that the private property would be communally owned. The mode of production would remain, but communal ownership would eliminate class conflict.\n\nEven after a revolution, the two classes would struggle, but eventually the struggle would recede and the classes dissolve. As class boundaries broke down, the state apparatus would wither away. According to Marx, the main task of any state apparatus is to uphold the power of the ruling class; but without any classes there would be no need for a state. That would lead to the classless, stateless communist society.\n\nA variety of predominantly trotskyist and anarchist thinkers argue that class conflict existed in Soviet-style societies. Their arguments describe as a class the bureaucratic stratum formed by the ruling political party (known as the Nomenklatura in the Soviet Union)—sometimes termed a \"new class\".—that controls and guides the means of production. This ruling class is viewed to be in opposition to the remainder of society, generally considered the proletariat. This type of system is referred by them as state socialism, state capitalism, bureaucratic collectivism or new class societies. (Cliff; Ðilas 1957) Marxism was such a predominate ideological power in what became the Soviet Union since a Marxist group known as the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party was formed in the country, prior to 1917. This party soon divided into two main factions; the Bolsheviks, who were led by Vladimir Lenin, and the Mensheviks, who were led by Julius Martov.\n\nHowever many Marxist argue that unlike in Capitalism, the Soviet elites didn't own the Means of production, or generated surplus value for their personal wealth like in capitalism, as the generated profit from the economy was equally distributed into Soviet society. Even some trotskyist like Ernest Mandel criticized the concept of a new ruling class as an oxymoron. He said: \"The hypothesis of the bureaucracy’s being a new ruling class leads to the conclusion that, for the first time in history, we are confronted with a “ruling class” which does not exist as a class before it actually rules.\"\n\nSocial commentators, historians and socialist theorists had commented on class struggle for some time before Marx, as well as the connection between class struggle, property, and law: Augustin Thierry, François Guizot, François-Auguste Mignet and Adolphe Thiers. The Physiocrats, David Ricardo, and after Marx, Henry George noted the inelastic supply of land and argued that this created certain privileges (economic rent) for landowners. According to the historian Arnold Toynbee, stratification along lines of class appears only within civilizations, and furthermore only appears during the process of a civilization's decline while not characterizing the growth phase of a civilization.\n\nProudhon, in \"What is Property?\" (1840) states that \"certain classes do not relish investigation into the pretended titles to property, and its fabulous and perhaps scandalous history.\" While Proudhon saw the solution as the lower classes forming an alternative, solidarity economy centered on cooperatives and self-managed workplaces, which would slowly undermine and replace capitalist class society, the anarchist Mikhail Bakunin, while influenced by Proudhon, insisted that a massive class struggle by the working class, peasantry and poor was essential to the creation of libertarian socialism. This would require a (final) showdown in the form of a social revolution.\n\nFascists have often opposed class struggle and instead have attempted to appeal to the working class while promising to preserve the existing social classes and have proposed an alternative concept known as class collaboration.\n\nSome historical tendencies of Orthodox Marxism reject racism, sexism, etc. as struggles that essentially distract from class struggle, the real conflict. These divisions within the class prevent the purported antagonists from acting in their common class interest. However, many Marxist internationalists and anti-colonial revolutionaries understand sex, race and class to be bound up together. There is an ongoing debate within Marxist scholarship about these topics.\n\nAccording to Michel Foucault, in the 19th century the essentialist notion of the \"race\" was incorporated by racists, biologists, and eugenicists, who gave it the modern sense of \"biological race\" which was then integrated to \"state racism\". On the other hand, Foucault claims that when Marxists developed their concept of \"class struggle\", they were partly inspired by the older, non-biological notions of the \"race\" and the \"race struggle\". In a letter to Friedrich Engels in 1882 Karl Marx wrote: \"You know very well where we found our idea of class struggle; we found it in the work of the French historians who talked about the race struggle.\" For Foucault, the theme of social war provides the overriding principle that connects class and race struggle.\n\nMoses Hess, an important theoretician and labor zionist of the early socialist movement, in his \"Epilogue\" to \"Rome and Jerusalem\" argued that \"the race struggle is primary, the class struggle secondary... With the cessation of race antagonism, the class struggle will also come to a standstill. The equalization of all classes of society will necessarily follow the emancipation of all the races, for it will ultimately become a scientific question of social economics.\"\n\nW. E. B. Du Bois theorized that the intersectional paradigms of race, class, and nation might explain certain aspects of black political economy. Patricia Hill Collins writes: \"Du Bois saw race, class, and nation not primarily as personal identity categories but as social hierarchies that shaped African-American access to status, poverty, and power.\"\n\nIn modern times, emerging schools of thought in the U.S. and other countries hold the opposite to be true. They argue that the race struggle is less important, because the primary struggle is that of class since labor of all races face the same problems and injustices.\n\nRiots with a basically nationalist background are not included.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18564127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18564127", "title": "Collective punishment", "text": "Collective punishment\n\nCollective punishment is a form of retaliation whereby a suspected perpetrator's family members, friends, acquaintances, sect, neighbors or entire ethnic group is targeted. The punished group may often have no direct association with the other individuals or groups, or direct control over their actions. In times of war and armed conflict, collective punishment has resulted in atrocities, and is a violation of the laws of war and the Geneva Conventions. Historically, occupying powers have used collective punishment to retaliate against and deter attacks on their forces by Resistance movements (such as destroying entire towns and villages which were believed to have harboured or aided such resistance movements).\n\nDuring the Qin Dynasty of China (221–207 BC), emperor Qin Shi Huang upheld his rule by enforcing strict laws, with the most serious of crimes, such as treason, punishable by what is known as nine familial exterminations – this involved the execution of the perpetrator's entire families as well as the perpetrators themselves, where the members are categorized into nine groups. The process of familial extermination was carried on by subsequent Chinese dynasties for serious crimes, with a significant number of recorded sentences during the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644), until the punishment was officially repealed by the government of the Qing Dynasty (1644–1912) in 1905.\n\nIn the Tithing, groups of ten men swearing the Frankpledge, the compulsory sharing of responsibility and punishment, was in use at least since the time of Alfred the Great in the 9th century. The Statute of Winchester of 1285 provided that \"the whole hundred … shall be answerable\" for any theft or robbery.\n\nDuring the Ming dynasty of China, 16 palace women attempted to assassinate the Jiajing Emperor. All were sentenced to death by slow slicing. Ten members of the women's families were also beheaded, while a further 20 were enslaved and gifted to ministers.\n\nThe Intolerable Acts were seen as a collective punishment of Massachusetts for the Boston Tea Party.\n\nThe principle of collective punishment was laid out by Union General William Tecumseh Sherman in his Special Field Order 120, November 9, 1864, which laid out the rules for his \"March to the sea\" in the American Civil War:\n\nV. To army corps commanders alone is entrusted the power to destroy mills, houses, cotton-gins, etc..., and for them this general principle is laid down: In districts and neighborhoods where the army is unmolested, no destruction of such property should be permitted; but should guerrillas or bushwhackers molest our march, or should the inhabitants burn bridges, obstruct roads, or otherwise manifest local hostility, then army commanders should order and enforce a devastation more or less relentless according to the measure of such hostility.\n\nBritish forces in the Boer Wars and the Germans in the Franco-Prussian War justified such actions as being in accord with the laws of war then in force.\n\nIn 1906, 167 black U.S. soldiers stationed in Brownsville, Texas, were dishonorably discharged on orders of President Theodore Roosevelt in response to the shooting of two white citizens in the middle of the night of August 13, 1906. One man was killed and the other, a police lieutenant, was injured and it was never discovered who the shooter(s) were, though they were presumed to have been members of the nearby Fort Brown. The soldiers of Companies Bravo, Charlie, and Delta of the 25th infantry regiment, many of whom served in the Philippines and Cuba during America's war with Spain, were punished for the crime collectively and were denied army pensions.\n\nDuring the First World War, the German invasion of Belgium was marked by numerous acts of collective punishment, in response to real or perceived acts of resistance. Some 6,000 civilians were killed, and 25,000 homes burned during this period.\n\nDuring the 1917 uprising against Nicholas II during World War I, many of Nicholas' distant relatives in Russia were killed\nby revolutionaries during that year's uprising. In July 1918, less than a year after the October revolution that overthrew Alexander Kerensky's Russian Provisional Government and early in the Russian Civil War that began shortly afterwards, Nicholas II and his immediate family and remaining servants were shot by their captors.\n\nDuring the Nazi occupation of Poland, the Germans applied collective responsibility: any kind of help given to a person of Jewish faith or origin was punishable by death, and that not only for the rescuers themselves but also for their families. This was widely publicized by the Germans. During the occupation, for every German killed by a Pole, 100–400 Poles were shot in retribution. Communities were held collectively responsible for the purported Polish counter-attacks against the invading German troops. Mass executions of roundup (pol: \"łapanka\") hostages were conducted every single day during the Wehrmacht advance across Poland in September 1939 and thereafter. Poland lost over 5 million citizens during the occupation by Nazi Germany, mostly civilians.\n\nGermany also applied collective punishment elsewhere. In the summer of 1941, Nazi troops executed several hundred people in Kondomari, Alikianos, Kandanos and elsewhere in retaliation for the participation of Cretan civilians in the Battle of Crete. During its occupation by the Axis from 1941 to 1944, Greece suffered a remarkably high death toll due to reprisals against the support and involvement of the population in the Resistance. Large-scale massacres were carried out in places such as Domeniko, Kommeno, Viannos, Drakeia, Kalavryta, Mesovouno, Distomo, Kedros, Chortiatis and many others.\n\nIn Yugoslavia (now Serbia), Nazi troops killed 434 men in three villages near Kragujevac on October 19, 1941 as punishment for previous actions of the Serbian resistance movement. In the next two days, the Nazis also killed more than 13,000 people in Kraljevo, Kragujevac, and Sumarice, including 300 students from Kragujevac First High School. In 1942, the Germans destroyed the village of Lidice, Czechoslovakia (now the Czech Republic) killing 340 inhabitants as collective punishment or reprisal for that year's assassination of Reinhard Heydrich by nearby commandos (the village Ležáky was also destroyed in retribution). In the French village of Oradour-sur-Glane 642 of its inhabitants – men, women, and children – were slaughtered by the German Waffen-SS in 1944, as were 335 Italians in that same year's Ardeatine massacre in caves outside Rome. In the Dutch village of Putten and the Italian villages of Sant'Anna di Stazzema and Marzabotto, as well as in the Soviet village of Kortelisy (in what is now Ukraine), large-scale reprisal killings were carried out by the Germans. The Massacre of Borovë occurred on July 9, 1943, in the village of Borovë, in southeastern Albania. German forces killed 107 civilians as a reprisal for a partisan attack on a German convoy the days before.\n\nThe expulsion of German speaking population groups after World War II by the Soviet Union, Poland and Czechoslovakia represent one of the greatest examples of collective punishment in terms of the number of victims. The goal was to punish the Germans; the Allies declared them collectively guilty of Nazi war crimes. In the US and UK the ideas of German collective guilt and collective punishment originated not with the US and British people, but on higher policy levels. Not until late in the war did the US public assign collective responsibility to the German people.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", the British planned \"'collective punishment' for aiding Reds, rewards and more troops\" in Malaya in 1951. The British used collective punishment as an official policy to suppress the Mau Mau uprising in Kenya in 1952. In 1956, Britain officially used collective punishment in Cyprus in the form of evicting families from their homes and closing shops anywhere British soldiers and police had been murdered, to obtain information about the identities of the attackers. Today, it is considered by most nations contradictory to the modern concept of due process, where each individual receives separate treatment based on their own role(s) in the crime in question. Article 33 of the Fourth Geneva Convention specifically forbids collective punishment.\n\nJoseph Stalin's mass deportations of many nationalities of the USSR to remote regions (including the Chechens, Crimean Tatars, Volga Germans and many others) is an example of officially orchestrated collective punishment.\n\nThe partial removal of potentially trouble-making ethnic groups was a technique used consistently by Stalin during his career: Poles (1939–41 and 1944–45), Romanians (1941 and 1944–53), Estonians, Latvians, Lithuanians (1941 and 1945–49), Volga Germans (1941), Chechens, and Ingushes (1944). Shortly before, during and immediately after World War II, Stalin conducted a series of deportations on a huge scale which profoundly affected the ethnic map of the Soviet Union. It is estimated that between 1941 and 1949 nearly 3.3 million were deported to Siberia and the Central Asian republics. By some estimates up to 43% of the resettled population died of diseases and malnutrition.\n\nThe deportations started with Poles from Belarus, Ukraine and European Russia (see Poles in the former Soviet Union) 1932–36. Koreans in the Russian Far East were deported in 1937 (see Deportation of Koreans in the Soviet Union). After the Soviet invasion of Poland following the corresponding German invasion that marked the start of World War II in 1939, the Soviet Union annexed eastern parts (so-called \"Kresy\") of the Second Polish Republic. During 1939–41 1.45 million people inhabiting the region were deported by the Soviet regime, of whom 63% were Poles, and 7% were Jews. The same followed in the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. More than 200,000 people are estimated to have been deported from the Baltic in 1940–1953. 10% of the entire adult Baltic population was deported or sent to labor camps. (see June deportation, Operation Priboi, Soviet deportations from Estonia) Volga Germans and seven (overwhelmingly Turkic or non-Slavic) nationalities of the Crimea and the northern Caucasus were deported: the Crimean Tatars, Kalmyks, Chechens, Ingush, Balkars, Karachays, and Meskhetian Turks. All Crimean Tatars were deported \"en masse\", in a form of collective punishment.\n\nPogroms may be considered examples of unofficial collective punishment which resemble rioting. About 14 million East Germans were moved out of what was Germany; three million of them died.\n\nBlack January was a massacre of civilians committed by the Red Army in the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic in 1990. The Human Rights Watch report entitled \"Black January in Azerbaijan\" states: \"Indeed, the violence used by the Soviet Army on the night of January 19–20 was so out of proportion to the resistance offered by Azerbaijanis as to constitute an exercise in collective punishment.\"\n\nIn North Korea, political prisoners are sent to the Kwan-li-so concentration camps along with their relatives without any fair trial. North Korean citizens convicted of more serious political crimes are sentenced to life imprisonment, and the summary two generations of their family (children and grandchildren) will be born in the camps as part of the \"3 generations of punishment\" policy instigated by state founder Kim Il-Sung in 1948.\nNorth Korea's political penal labor colonies, transliterated \"kwalliso\" or \"kwan-li-so\", constitute one of three forms of political imprisonment in the country, the other two being what Hawk (2012) translates as \"short-term detention/forced-labor centers\" and \"long-term prison labor camps\" for misdemeanor and felony offences respectively. In total, there are an estimated 150,000 to 200,000 political prisoners housed within the North Korean imprisonment system. In contrast to these other systems, the condemned are sent there without any form of judicial process as are their immediate three generations of family members as kin punishment.\nNorth Korea's kwalliso consist of a series of sprawling encampments measuring kilometers long and kilometers wide. The number of these encampments has varied over time. They are located mainly in the valleys between high mountains, mostly in the northern provinces of North Korea. There are between 5,000 and 50,000 prisoners per kwalliso, totaling perhaps some 150,000 to 200,000 prisoners throughout North Korea. The kwalliso are usually surrounded at their outer perimeters by barbed-wire fences punctuated with guard towers and patrolled by heavily armed guards. The encampments include self-contained closed \"village\" compounds for single persons, usually the alleged wrongdoers, and other closed, fenced-in \"villages\" for the extended families of the wrongdoers.\n\nThe current blockade of Gaza has been criticized by the International Committee of the Red Cross, in a United Nations report, and by various other organisations as collective punishment aimed at the Palestinians. In Alamarin v. IDF Commander in Gaza Strip the Israeli High Court of Justice held that the homes of Palestinians who have committed violent acts may be demolished under the Defence (Emergency) Regulations, even if the residence has other inhabitants who are unconnected to the crime.\n\nThe 1984 anti-Sikh riots or the 1984 Sikh Massacre was a riot directed against Sikhs in India, by anti-Sikh mobs, in response to the assassination of Indira Gandhi by her Sikh bodyguards. This caused more than 3000 deaths. The CBI is of the opinion that the acts of violence were well organized with support from the officials in the Delhi police and central government at the time, headed by Indira Gandhi's son, Rajiv Gandhi. Rajiv, a Congress party member who was sworn in as the Prime Minister after his mother's death, when asked about the riots said \"When a big tree falls, the earth shakes\".\n\nIn 2011, Human Rights Watch reported the Government of India had \"yet to prosecute those responsible for the mass killings\". The 2011 WikiLeaks cable leaks revealed that the United States was convinced regarding the complicity of the Indian government led by the Indian National Congress in the riots, and termed it as \"opportunism\" and \"hatred\" of the Congress government against Sikhs. Also in 2011, a new set of mass graves were discovered in Haryana, and Human Rights Watch reported that \"Widespread anti-Sikh attacks in Haryana were part of broader revenge attacks\" in India.\n\nOn May 20, 2008, the Pakistan Army conducted collective punishment against a village called Spinkai, located in the frontier province of Pakistan. The operation was called 'zalzala', which is Arabic for earthquake. At first, the Pakistan Army swept through with helicopter gunships, artillery and tanks. After four days of heavy fighting, 25 militants and six soldiers died. The rest of the militants retreated up the valley. After the capture of the village the army discovered bomb factories, detonation-ready suicide jackets and schools for teenage suicide bombers.\n\nThe Pakistan Army immediately decided to punish the village for harboring the Taliban and allowing the militants to operate in and from the village to conduct further terror attacks in Pakistan. Bulldozers and explosives experts turned Spinkai's bazaar into a mile-long pile of rubble. Petrol stations, shops, and even parts of the hospital were leveled or blown up. The villagers were forbidden from returning to their homes.\n\nPakistani commanders, who were speaking to the media, insisted they had been merciful in their application of \"collective punishment\" – a practice invented by the British who demarcated the tribal areas over a century ago.\n\nSouth Africa still retains the Apartheid-era law of common purpose, by which those who make up part of a group can be punished for the crimes of other group members, even if they were not themselves actively involved. In August 2012 this came to public attention when 270 miners were threatened with prosecution for participating in a demonstration. During the demonstration at the Marikana mine, 34 miners were shot by police. Many of the miners were armed. When prosecutors said they would pursue charges against other miners who were part of the protest, there was a public outcry.\n\nThroughout most of Syria's ongoing civil war, collective punishment has been a recurring method used by the Syrian government to quell opposition cities and suburbs throughout the country, whereby entire cities are besieged, shelled, and destroyed if that city is deemed as pro-opposition.\n\nUpon retaking the capital Damascus after the Battle of Damascus (2012), the Syrian government began a campaign of collective punishment against Sunni suburbs in-and-around the capital which had supported FSA presence in their neighborhoods.\n\nIn opposition-controlled cities and districts in Aleppo province and Aleppo city, reports indicate that the Syrian government is attacking civilians at bread bakeries with artillery rounds and rockets, with the reports indicating that the bakeries were shelled indiscriminately. HRW said these are war crimes, as the only military targets wherever the few rebels manning the bakeries, and that dozens of civilians were killed.\n\nIn Idlib province in the northwest of the country, entire cities were shelled and bombed for sheltering opposition activists and rebels, with the victims mostly civilians, along with heavy financial losses.\n\nRather than attempt to discover some \"contra-causal free will\", modern philosophers will usually use notions of intention to establish individual moral responsibility. This Kantian approach may not be the only way to assess responsibility, especially considering groups may need a unique approach to individuals. For instance, there is the issue that consistent (not hypocritical) individuals may nevertheless experience a discursive dilemma when they try to act as a group.\n\nPhilosopher Kenneth Shockley suggests we focus on group faults and the punishments that would bring change. Punishments, for a group, might include: full or partial disbanding, weakening bonds between members, or de-institutionalizing some of the group's norms. Neta Crawford says groups can be expected to change, but also apologize and make amends. That might mean groups must forfeit important parts of themselves. In this case, groups are being held responsible for organizing or incentivizing harmful behaviors. Shockley calls this the group's \"coordinating control\" over members. He says group responsibility can mitigate individual responsibility.\n\n"}
{"id": "6888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6888", "title": "Colon classification", "text": "Colon classification\n\nColon classification (CC) is a system of library classification developed by S. R. Ranganathan. It was the first ever faceted (or analytico-synthetic) classification. The first edition was published in 1933. Since then six more editions have been published. It is especially used in libraries in India.\n\nIts name \"colon classification\" comes from the use of colons to separate facets in class numbers. However, many other classification schemes, some of which are completely unrelated, also use colons and other punctuation in various functions.\n\nIn CC, facets describe \"personality\" (the most specific subject), matter, energy, space, and time (PMEST). These facets are generally associated with every item in a library, and so form a reasonably universal sorting system.\n\nAs an example, the subject \"research in the cure of tuberculosis of lungs by x-ray conducted in India in 1950\" would be categorized as:\n\nThis is summarized in a specific call number:\n\nThe colon classification uses 42 main classes that are combined with other letters, numbers and marks in a manner resembling the Library of Congress Classification to sort a publication.\n\nCC uses five primary categories, or facets, to further specify the sorting of a publication. Collectively, they are called \"PMEST\":\n\nThe following are the main classes of CC, with some subclasses, the main method used to sort the subclass using the PMEST scheme and examples showing application of PMEST.\n\nA common example of the colon classification is:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28216370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28216370", "title": "Commanding precedent", "text": "Commanding precedent\n\nIn law, a commanding precedent is a precedent whose facts are \"on all fours\" with the case at hand. In other words, it almost exactly tracks it, sharing near-identical facts and issues. A commanding precedent is also referred to as a \"Goose\" case in Louisiana; \"Spotted Horse\" or \"Spotted Dog\" cases in Alabama; \"Cow\" case in Kansas; and \"White Horse\" or \"White Pony\" cases in Texas. A legal rule can be \"clearly established\" without commanding precedent existing. For example, in the United States, a governmental official is generally protected by qualified immunity if his acts were objectively legally reasonable, but such protection may not apply if, in light of pre-existing law, the unlawfulness of his conduct would have been apparent to a reasonably competent official, even if no commanding precedent applicable to his specific behavior existed.\n\nSuch a precedent is called on all fours when all four parts of the instant (or present) case are essentially the same as the mandatory precedent, or are very similar:\n\nBy comparison, a case on point is one in which a case has factual circumstances and issues similar to the case being researched, but which has different parties seeking somewhat different remedies.\n"}
{"id": "8799355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8799355", "title": "Complementary sequences", "text": "Complementary sequences\n\nIn applied mathematics, complementary sequences (CS) are pairs of sequences with the useful property that their out-of-phase aperiodic autocorrelation coefficients sum to zero. Binary complementary sequences were first introduced by Marcel J. E. Golay in 1949. In 1961–1962 Golay gave several methods for constructing sequences of length 2 and gave examples of complementary sequences of lengths 10 and 26. In 1974 R. J. Turyn gave a method for constructing sequences of length \"mn\" from sequences of lengths \"m\" and \"n\" which allows the construction of sequences of any length of the form 21026.\n\nLater the theory of complementary sequences was generalized by other authors to polyphase complementary sequences, multilevel complementary sequences, and arbitrary complex complementary sequences. Complementary sets have also been considered; these can contain more than two sequences.\n\nLet (\"a\", \"a\", ..., \"a\") and (\"b\", \"b\", ..., \"b\") be a pair of bipolar sequences, meaning that \"a\"(\"k\") and \"b\"(\"k\") have values +1 or −1. Let the aperiodic autocorrelation function of the sequence x be defined by\n\nThen the pair of sequences \"a\" and \"b\" is complementary if:\n\nfor \"k\" = 1, ..., \"N\" − 1.\n\nOr using Kronecker delta we can write:\n\nSo we can say that the sum of autocorrelation functions of complementary sequences is a delta function, which is an ideal autocorrelation for many applications like radar pulse compression and spread spectrum telecommunications.\n\n\n\n\n\nA complementary pair \"a\", \"b\" may be encoded as polynomials \"A\"(\"z\") = \"a\"(0) + \"a\"(1)\"z\" + ... + \"a\"(\"N\" − 1)\"z\" and similarly for \"B\"(\"z\"). The complementarity property of the sequences is equivalent to the condition\n\nfor all \"z\" on the unit circle, that is, |\"z\"| = 1. If so, \"A\" and \"B\" form a Golay pair of polynomials. Examples include the Shapiro polynomials, which give rise to complementary sequences of length a power of 2.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43177114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43177114", "title": "Elliptic algebra", "text": "Elliptic algebra\n\nIn algebra, an elliptic algebra is a certain regular algebra of a Gelfand–Kirillov dimension three (quantum polynomial ring in three variables) that corresponds to a cubic divisor in the projective space P. If the cubic divisor happens to be an elliptic curve, then the algebra is called a Sklyanin algebra. The notion is studied in the context of noncommutative projective geometry.\n"}
{"id": "33034640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33034640", "title": "Embodied cognition", "text": "Embodied cognition\n\nEmbodied cognition is the theory that many features of cognition, whether human or otherwise, are shaped by aspects of the entire body of the organism. The features of cognition include high level mental constructs (such as concepts and categories) and performance on various cognitive tasks (such as reasoning or judgment). The aspects of the body include the motor system, the perceptual system, bodily interactions with the environment (situatedness) and the assumptions about the world that are built into the structure of the organism.\n\nThe embodied mind thesis challenges other theories, such as cognitivism, computationalism, and Cartesian dualism.\nIt is closely related to the extended mind thesis, situated cognition and enactivism. The modern version depends on insights drawn from recent research in psychology, linguistics, cognitive science, dynamical systems, artificial intelligence, robotics, animal cognition, plant cognition and neurobiology.\n\nIn philosophy, embodied cognition holds that an agent's cognition is strongly influenced by aspects of an agent's body beyond the brain itself. In their proposal for an enactive approach to cognition Varela \"et al.\" defined \"embodied\":\n\nThe Varela enactive definition is broad enough to overlap the views of extended cognition and situated cognition, and indeed, these ideas are not always carefully separated.\n\nSome authors explain the dependence of cognition upon the body and its environmental interactions by saying cognition in real biological systems is not an end in itself but is constrained by the system's goals and capacities. However, they argue, such constraints do not mean cognition is set by adaptive behavior (or autopoiesis) alone, but cognition requires “\"some\" kind of information processing...the transformation or communication of incoming information”, the acquiring of which involves \"exploration and modification of the environment\". \n\nThe separation of embodied cognition from extended cognition and situated cognition can be based upon the \"embodiment thesis\", a narrower view of embodiment than that of Varela \"et al.\" or that of Dawson:\n\nThis thesis omits direct mention of some aspects of the \"more encompassing biological, psychological and cultural context\" included by Varela \"et al.\" The \"Extended\" mind thesis, in contrast with the \"Embodiment\" thesis, limits cognitive processing neither to the brain nor even to the body, but extends it outward into the agent's world. \"Situated\" cognition emphasizes that this extension is not just a matter of including resources outside the head, but stresses the role of probing and modifying interaction with the agent's world.\n\nIn his \"Universal Natural History and Theory of Heaven\" (1755). philosopher Immanuel Kant advocated a view of the mind–body problem and the subject–object problem with parallels to the embodied view. Some difficulties with this interpretation of Kant include (i) the view that Kant holds the empirical, and specifically knowledge of the body, cannot support \"a priori\" transcendental claims, and (ii) the view that Kant holds that transcendental philosophy, although charged with the responsibility of explaining how we can have empirical knowledge, is not itself empirical.\n\nJosé Ortega y Gasset, George Santayana, Miguel de Unamuno, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, Martin Heidegger and others in the broadly existential tradition have proposed philosophies of mind influencing the development of the modern 'embodiment' thesis.\n\nThe embodiment movement in artificial intelligence has fueled the embodiment argument in philosophy and a revised view of ethology:\n\nThese developments have also given emotions a new status in philosophy of mind as an indispensable constituent, rather than a non-essential addition to rational intellectual thought.\nIn philosophy of mind, the idea that cognition is embodied is sympathetic with other views of cognition such as situated cognition or externalism. This is a radical move towards a total re-localization of mental processes out of the neural domain.\n\nEmbodied cognition is a topic of research in social and cognitive psychology, covering issues such as social interaction and decision-making.\nEmbodied cognition reflects the argument that the motor system influences our cognition, just as the mind influences bodily actions. For example, when participants hold a pencil in their teeth engaging the muscles of a smile, they comprehend pleasant sentences faster than unpleasant ones, while holding a pencil between their nose and upper lip to engage the muscles of a frown has the reverse effect.\n\nGeorge Lakoff (a cognitive scientist and linguist) and his collaborators (including Mark Johnson, Mark Turner, and Rafael E. Núñez) have written a series of books promoting and expanding the thesis based on discoveries in cognitive science, such as conceptual metaphor and image schema.\n\nRobotics researchers such as Rodney Brooks, Hans Moravec and Rolf Pfeifer have argued that true artificial intelligence can only be achieved by machines that have sensory and motor skills and are connected to the world through a body. The insights of these robotics researchers have in turn inspired philosophers like Andy Clark and Horst Hendriks-Jansen.\n\nNeuroscientists Gerald Edelman, António Damásio and others have outlined the connection between the body, individual structures in the brain and aspects of the mind such as consciousness, emotion, self-awareness and will. Biology has also inspired Gregory Bateson, Humberto Maturana, Francisco Varela, Eleanor Rosch and Evan Thompson to develop a closely related version of the idea, which they call enactivism. The motor theory of speech perception proposed by Alvin Liberman and colleagues at the Haskins Laboratories argues that the identification of words is embodied in perception of the bodily movements by which spoken words are made. \nIn related work at Haskins, Paul Mermelstein, Philip Rubin, Louis Goldstein, and colleagues developed articulatory synthesis tools for computationally modeling the physiology and aeroacoustics of the vocal tract, demonstrating how cognition and perception of speech can be shaped by biological constraints. This was extended into the audio-visual domain by the \"talking heads\" approach of Eric Vatikiotis-Bateson, Rubin, and other colleagues.\n\nOne embodied cognition study shows that action intention can affect processing in visual search, with more orientation errors for pointing than for grasping. Participants either pointed to or grasped target objects of 2 colors and 2 orientations (45° and 135°). There were randomized numbers of distractors as well (0, 3, 6, or 9), which differed from the target in color, orientation, or both. A tone sounded to inform participants which target orientation to find. Participants kept their eyes on a fixation point until it turned from red to the target color. The screen then lit up and the participants searched for the target, either pointing to it or grasping it (depending on the block). There were 2 blocks for pointing and 2 for grasping, with the order counterbalanced. Each block had 64 trials.\n\nResults from the experiment show that accuracy decreases with an increase in the number of distractors. Overall, participants made more orientation errors than color errors. There was no main effect of accuracy between the pointing and grasping conditions, but participants made significantly fewer orientation errors in the grasping condition than in the pointing condition. Color errors were the same in both conditions. Because orientation is important in grasping an object, these results fit with the researchers' hypothesis that the plan to grasp an object will aid in orientation accuracy. This supports embodied cognition because action intention (planning to grasp an object) can affect visual processing of task-relevant information (orientation).\n\nInternal states can affect distance perception, which relates to embodied cognition. Researchers randomly assigned college student participants to high-choice, low-choice, and control conditions. The high-choice condition signed a “freedom of choice” consent form indicating their decision to wear a Carmen Miranda costume and walk across a busy area of campus. Low-choice participants signed an “experimenter choice” consent form, indicating the experimenter assigned the participant to wear the costume. A control group walked across campus but did not wear a costume. At the conclusion of the experiment, each participant completed a survey which asked them to estimate the distance they walked.\n\nThe high-choice participants perceived the distance walked as significantly shorter than participants in the low-choice and control groups, even though they walked the same distance. The manipulation caused high-choice participants to feel responsible for the choice to walk in the embarrassing costume. This created cognitive dissonance, which refers to a discrepancy between attitudes and behaviors. High-choice participants reconciled their thoughts and actions by perceiving the distance as shorter. These results show the ability of internal states to affect perception of physical distance moved, which illustrates the reciprocal relationship of the body and mind in embodied cognition.\n\nResearchers have found that when making judgements about objects in photographs, people will take the perspective of a person in the picture instead of their own.\nThey showed college undergraduate participants 1 of 3 photographs and asked where 1 object in the picture was compared to the other object. For example, if the 2 objects were an apple and a banana, the participants would have to respond to a question about the location of the apple compared to the banana. The photographs either had no person, a person looking at the object, in this case the banana, or a person reaching for the banana. The photograph and question appeared in a larger set of questionnaires not related to the study.\n\nResults show that participants who viewed photographs that included a person were significantly more likely to respond from another's perspective than those who saw photographs with no person. There were no differences in perspective of responses for the person looking versus reaching. Participants who saw the scene without a person were significantly more likely to respond from their own perspective. This means that the presence of a person in the photograph affected the perspective used even though the question focused solely on the two objects. The researchers state that these results suggest \"disembodied\" cognition, in which the participants put themselves into the body of the person in the photograph.\n\nSome researchers extend embodied cognition to include language. They describe language as a tool that aids in broadening our sense of body. For instance, when asked to identify “this” object, participants most often choose an object near to them. Conversely, when asked to identify “that” object, participants choose an object further away from them. Language allows us to distinguish between distances in more complex ways than the simple perceptual difference between near and far objects.\nThe motor system is involved in language comprehension, in this case when sentences were performable by a human, there was a change in participants' overall movement of a pendulum. Researchers performed an experiment in which college undergraduate participants swung a pendulum while completing a \"sentence judgement task.\" Participants would swing the pendulum with both hands for 10 seconds before a prompt and then a sentence would appear on the screen until the participant responded. In the control condition, participants swung the pendulum without performing the \"sentence judgement task.\" Each trial had half \"plausible\" and half \"implausible\" sentences. The \"plausible\" sentences made sense semantically, while the \"implausible\" ones did not. The \"performable\" sentences could be performed by a human, while the \"inanimate\" sentences could not. Participants responded by saying \"yes\" to the \"plausible\" sentences.\n\nResults show a significant \"relative phase shift,\" or overall change in movement of the swinging pendulum, for the \"performable\" sentences. This change did not occur for \"inanimate\" sentences or the control condition. The researchers did not expect an overall phase shift, instead they expected a change in the variability of movement, or the \"standard deviation of relative phase shift.\" Although not entirely expected, these results support embodied cognition and show that the motor system is involved in the understanding of language. The researchers suggest that the nature of this relationship needs to be further studied to determine the exact correlation this task has to bi-manual motor movements.\n\nEmbodiment effects emerge in the way in which people of different sex and temperament perceive verbal material, such as common adjectives and abstract and neutral nouns. Trofimova, who first described this phenomenon in her experiments, called it \"projection through capacities\". This phenomenon emerges when people's lexical perception depends upon their capacities to handle the events; when their information processing registers mostly those aspects of objects or of a situation that they can properly react to and deal with according to their inherent capacities. \nFor example, in these studies males with stronger motor-physical endurance estimated abstractions describing people-, work/reality- and time-related concepts in more positive terms than males with a weaker endurance. Females with stronger social or physical endurance estimated social attractors in more positive terms than weaker females. Both male and female temperament groups with higher sociability showed a universal positive bias in their estimations of neutral words, especially for social and work/reality-related concepts, in comparison to participants with lower sociability. Capacities related to the tempo of activities also appeared to impact the perception of lexical material: men with faster motor-physical tempo estimated neutral, abstract time-related concepts significantly in more positive terms than men with slower tempo.\n\nA study examining memory and embodied cognition illustrates that people remember more of the gist of a story when they physically act it out. Researchers divided female participants randomly into 5 groups, which were \"Read Only,\" \"Writing,\" \"Collaborative Discussion,\" \"Independent Discussion,\" and \"Improvisation.\" All participants received a monologue about teen addiction and were told to pay attention to details about the character and action in the monologue. Participants were given 5 minutes to read the monologue twice, unaware of a future recall test. In the \"Read Only\" condition participants filled out unrelated questionnaires after reading the monologue. In the \"Writing\" condition participants responded to 5 questions about the story from the perspective of the character in the monologue. They had 6 minutes to answer each question. In the \"Collaborative Discussion\" condition participants responded from the character's perspective to the same questions as the \"Writing\" group, but in groups of 4 or 5 women. They were also given 6 minutes per question and everyone participated in answering each question. The \"Independent Discussion\" condition was the same as the \"Collaborative Discussion,\" except 1 person answered each question. In the \"Improvisation\" condition participants acted out 5 scenes from the monologue in groups of 5 women. The researchers suggest that this condition involves embodied cognition and will produce better memory for the monologue. Every participant played the main character and a supporting character once. Participants were given short prompts from lines in the monologue, which were excluded from the memory test. Participants had 2 minutes to choose characters and 4 minutes for improvisations. The recall test was the monologue with 96 words or phrases missing. Participants had to fill in the blanks as accurately as possible.\n\nResearchers gave the recall test to a group who did not read the monologue. They scored significantly lower than the other groups, which indicated that guessing was not easy. In coding the answers to the recall test, exact words were labeled \"Verbatim\", and correct content but varied wording was labeled \"Gist\". The combination of \"Verbatim\" and \"Gist\" was called \"Total Memory.\" The \"Improvisational\" group had more \"Gist\" memories than any other group and had more \"Total Memory\" than both of the discussion groups. The results fit the researchers' hypothesis that the \"Improvisational\" group would remember more because they actively rehearsed the information from the monologue. Although other groups had also elaborately encoded the information, the \"Improvisation\" group remembered significantly more than the discussion groups and marginally more than the \"Reading Only\" and \"Writing\" groups. Simply experiencing the monologue in an active way aids in remembering the \"Gist.\" There were no differences across groups for \"Verbatim\" memory, which they suggest could take longer than the limited time during the experiment to develop.\n\nIdeas stemming from embodied cognition research have been applied to the field of learning. It has been shown that bodily activity can be used to enhance learning in several studies. Research on embodied learning often utilizes educational technology in the form of virtual reality, mixed reality, or motion caputure to transform learning activities into immersive experiences. There are theoretical approaches that define the level of embodiment of these learning platforms based on factors such as their capabilities for immersion and sensorimotor activity. Other theoretical systems analyze embodied learning in terms of the degree of bodily engagement and whether the embodiment is integrated into a learning task.\n\nA series of experiments demonstrated the interrelation between motor experience and high-level reasoning. For example, although most individuals recruit visual processes when presented with spatial problems such as mental rotation tasks motor experts favor motor processes to perform the same tasks, with higher overall performance. A related study showed that motor experts use similar processes for the mental rotation of body parts and polygons, whereas non-experts treated these stimuli differently. These results were not due to underlying confounds, as demonstrated by a training study which showed mental rotation improvements after a one-year motor training, compared with controls. Similar patterns were also found in working memory tasks, with the ability to remember movements being greatly disrupted by a secondary verbal task in controls and by a motor task in motor experts, suggesting the involvement of different processes to store movements depending on motor experience, namely verbal for controls and motor for experts.\n\nIn research focused on the approach and avoidance effect, people showed an approach effect for positive words. In the \"positive toward condition,\" participants moved positive words toward the center of the screen and negative words away. In the \"negative toward condition,\" participants moved negative words toward the center and positive words away. Participants were given feedback about their accuracy at the end of each of the 4 experimental blocks. In the first experiment the word at the center of the screen had a positive valence, while in the second experiment the central word had a negative valence. In the third experiment, the center of the screen had an empty box.\n\nAs predicted, in the first experiment participants in the \"positive toward condition\" responded significantly faster than those in the \"negative toward condition.\" This fits the approach/avoidance effect in embodied cognition, which states that people are faster to approach positive things and avoid negative ones. In the second experiment, researchers expected participants in the \"negative toward condition\" to be faster, yet those in the \"positive toward condition\" responded significantly faster. Although effects were smaller in the third experiment, participants in the \"positive toward condition\" were still faster. Overall, people were faster in the \"positive toward condition,\" regardless of the valence of the central word. Despite mixed results regarding the researchers' expectations, they maintain that the motor system is important in processing higher level representations such as the action goal. In this study, participants showed strong approach effects in the \"positive toward condition,\" which supports embodied cognition.\n\nAs part of a larger study, researchers separated participants into 5 groups with different instructions.\nIn the \"approach\" condition, participants were instructed to imagine physically moving the product toward them, but in the \"avoid\" condition, participants had to imagine moving the product away from them. In the \"control\" condition, participants were instructed to simply observe the product. The \"correction\" condition involved the same instructions as the approach condition, except participants were told that the body can affect judgment. In the \"approach information\" condition, participants had to list 5 reasons why they would obtain the product. After viewing a picture of an aversive product, participants rated on a scale of 1 to 7 how desirable the product was and how much they approached of or avoided the product. They also provided how much they would pay for the product.\n\nAn approach/avoidance effect was found in relation to product evaluation. Participants in the \"approach\" condition liked the aversive product significantly more and would pay more for it. There were no differences between the \"avoidance,\" \"control,\" \"correction,\" and \"approach information\" conditions. Simulation of approach can affect liking and willingness to pay for a product, but the effect can be reversed if the person knows about this influence. This supports embodied cognition.\n\nAs part of a larger study, one experiment randomly assigned college undergraduates to 2 groups.\nIn the \"muscle-firming\" condition participants grasped a pen in their hand, while in the \"control\" condition participants held the pen in their fingers. The participants were then asked to fill out donations to Haiti for the Red Cross in sealed envelopes. They were told to return the envelope regardless of whether they donated. They also filled out questionnaires about their feelings about the Red Cross, their tendency to donate, their feelings about Haiti, what they thought the purpose of the study was, etc.\n\nSignificantly more participants in the \"muscle-firming\" condition than in the \"control\" condition donated money. Condition did not affect the actual amount donated when participants chose to donate. As the researchers predicted, the \"muscle-firming\" condition helped participants get over their physical aversion to viewing the devastation in Haiti and spend money. Muscle-firming in this experiment may also be related to an increase in self-control, suggesting embodied cognition can play a role in self-regulation.\n\nAnother set of studies was conducted by Shalev (2014), indicating that exposure to physical or conceptual thirst or dryness-related cues influence perceived energy and reduce self-regulation. In Study 1, participants primed with dryness-related concepts reported greater physical thirst and tiredness and lower subjective vitality. In Study 2, participants who were physically thirstywere less persistent in investing effort in an unsolvable anagram task. In Study 3, images of arid land influenced time preference regarding when to begin preparation to make a monetary investment. Finally, in Studies 4a and 4b, exposure to the names of dryness-related products influenced impressions of the vitality of a target person.\n\nSome suggest that the embodied mind serves self-regulatory processes by combining movement and cognition to reach a goal. Thus, the embodied mind has a facilitative effect. Some judgments, such as the emotion of a face, are detected more quickly when a participant mimics the facial expression that is being evaluated. Individuals holding a pen in their mouths to freeze their facial muscles and make them unable to mimic the expression were less able to judge emotions. Goal-relevant actions may be encouraged by embodied cognition, as evidenced by the automated approach and avoidance of certain environmental cues. Embodied cognition is also influenced by the situation. If one moves in a way previously associated with danger, the body may require a greater level of information processing than if the body moves in a way associated with a benign situation.\n\nSome social psychologists examined embodied cognition and hypothesized that embodied cognition would be supported by embodied rapport. Embodied rapport would be demonstrated by pairs of same-sex strangers using Aron’s paradigm, which instructs participants to alternate asking certain questions and to progressively self-disclose. The researchers predicted that participants would mimic each other’s movements, reflecting embodied cognition. Half the participants completed a control task of reading and editing a scientific article, while half the participants completed a shortened version of Aron’s self-disclosure paradigm.\n\nThere is a significant correlation between self-disclosure and positive emotions towards the other participant. Participants randomly assigned to the self-disclosure task displayed more behavioral synchrony (rated by independent judges watching the tapes of each condition on mute) and reported more positive emotions than the control group. Since bodily movements influence the psychological experience of the task, the relationship between self-disclosure and positive feelings towards one's partner may be an example of embodied cognition.\n\nEmbodied cognition may also be defined from the perspective of evolutionary psychologists.\nEvolutionary psychologists view emotion as an important self-regulatory aspect of embodied cognition, and emotion as a motivator towards goal-relevant action. Emotion helps drive adaptive behavior. The evolutionary perspective cites language, both spoken and written, as types of embodied cognition. Pacing and non-verbal communication reflect embodied cognition in spoken language. Technical aspects of written language, such as italics, all caps, and emoticons promote an inner voice and thereby a sense of feeling rather than thinking about a written message.\n\nGeorge Lakoff and his collaborators have developed several lines of evidence that suggest that people use their understanding of familiar physical objects, actions and situations (such as containers, spaces, trajectories) to understand other more complex domains (such as mathematics, relationships or death). Lakoff argues that \"all\" cognition is based on knowledge that comes from the body and that other domains are mapped onto our embodied knowledge using a combination of conceptual metaphor, image schema and prototypes.\n\nLakoff and Mark Johnson showed that humans use metaphor ubiquitously and that metaphors operate at a conceptual level (i.e., they map one conceptual domain onto another), they involve an unlimited number of individual expressions and that the same metaphor is used conventionally throughout a culture.\nLakoff and his collaborators have collected thousands of examples of conceptual metaphors in many domains.\n\nFor example, people will typically use language about journeys to discuss the history and status of a love affair, a metaphor Lakoff and Johnson call \"LOVE IS A JOURNEY\". It is used in such expression as: \"we arrived at a crossroads,\" \"we parted ways\", \"we hit the rocks\" (as in a sea journey), \"she's in the driver's seat\", or, simply, \"we're together\". In cases like these, something complex (a love affair) is described in terms of something that can be done with a body (travel through space).\n\nPrototypes are \"typical\" members of a category, e.g. a robin is a prototypical bird, but a penguin is not. The role of prototypes in human cognition was first identified and studied by Eleanor Rosch in the 1970s. She was able to show that prototypical objects are more easily categorized than non-prototypical objects, and that people answered questions about a category as a whole by reasoning about a prototype. She also identified basic level categories: categories that have prototypes that are easily visualized (such as a chair) and are associated with basic physical motions (such as \"sitting\"). Prototypes of basic level categories are used to reason about more general categories.\n\nPrototype theory has been used to explain human performance on many different cognitive tasks and in a large variety of domains. George Lakoff argues that prototype theory shows that the categories that people use are based on our experience of having a body and have no resemblance to logical classes or types. For Lakoff, this shows that traditional objectivist accounts of truth cannot be correct.\n\nA classic argument against embodiment in its strict form is based on abstract meaning. Whereas the meanings of the words ‘eye’ and ‘grasp’ can be explained, to a degree, by pointing to objects and actions, those of ‘beauty’ and ‘freedom’ cannot. It may be that some common sensorimotor knowledge is immanent in \"freeing\" actions or instantiations of \"beauty\", but it seems likely that additional semantic binding principles are behind such concepts. So might it be necessary, after all, to place abstract semantics in an amodal meaning system? A remarkable observation has recently been offered that may be of the essence in this context: abstract terms show an over-proportionally strong tendency to be semantically linked to knowledge about emotions. This additional embodied–semantic link accounts for advantages in processing speed for abstract emotional terms over otherwise matched control words. In addition, abstract words strongly activate anterior cingulate cortex, a site known to be relevant for emotion processing Thus, it appears that at least some abstract words are semantically grounded in emotion knowledge.\n\nIf abstract emotion words indeed receive their meaning through grounding in emotion it is of crucial relevance Therefore, the link between an abstract emotion word and its abstract concept is via manifestation of the latter in prototypical actions. The child learns an abstract emotion word such as 'joy' because it shows JOY-expressing action schemas, which language-teaching adults use as criteria for correct application of the abstract emotion word Thus, the manifestation of emotions in actions becomes the crucial link between word use and internal state, and hence between sign and meaning. Only after a stock of abstract emotion words has been grounded in emotion-expressing action can further emotion terms be learnt from context.\n\nThe experience of AI research provides another line of evidence supporting the embodied mind thesis. In the early history of AI successes in programming high-level reasoning tasks such as chess-playing led to an unfounded optimism that all AI problems would be relatively quickly solved. These programs simulated intelligence using logic and high-level abstract symbols (an approach called Good old-fashioned AI). This \"disembodied\" approach ran into serious difficulties in the 1970s and 80s, as researchers discovered that abstract, disembodied reasoning was highly inefficient and could not achieve human-levels of competence on many simple tasks. Funding agencies (such as DARPA) withdrew funding because the field of AI had failed to achieve its stated objectives, leading to difficult period now known as the \"AI winter\". Many AI researchers began to doubt that high level symbolic reasoning could ever perform well enough to solve simple problems.\n\nRodney Brooks argued in the mid-80s that these symbolic approaches were failing because researchers did not appreciate the importance of sensorimotor skills to intelligence in general, and applied these principals to robotics (an approach he called \"Nouvelle AI\"). Another successful new direction was neural networks—programs based on the actual structures within human bodies that gave rise to intelligence and learning. In the 90s, statistical AI achieved high levels of success in industry without using any symbolic reasoning, but instead using probabilistic techniques to make \"guesses\" and improve them incrementally. This process is similar to the way human beings are able to make fast, intuitive choices without stopping to reason symbolically.\n\nMoravec's paradox is the discovery by artificial intelligence and robotics researchers that, contrary to traditional assumptions, high-level reasoning requires very little computation, but low-level sensorimotor skills require enormous computational resources. The principle was articulated by Hans Moravec (whence the name) and others in the 1980s.\nAs Moravec writes:\nEncoded in the large, highly evolved sensory and motor portions of the human brain is a billion years of experience about the nature of the world and how to survive in it. The deliberate process we call reasoning is, I believe, the thinnest veneer of human thought, effective only because it is supported by this much older and much powerful, though usually unconscious, sensorimotor knowledge. We are all prodigious olympians in perceptual and motor areas, so good that we make the difficult look easy. Abstract thought, though, is a new trick, perhaps less than 100 thousand years old. We have not yet mastered it. It is not all that intrinsically difficult; it just seems so when we do it.\n\nMany artificial intelligence researchers have argued that a machine may need a human-like body to think and speak as well as a human being. As early as 1950, Alan Turing wrote: It can also be maintained that it is best to provide the machine with the best sense organs that money can\nbuy, and then teach it to understand and speak English. That process could follow the normal teaching of a\nchild. Things would be pointed out and named, etc. (Turing, 1950).\n\nEmbodiment theory was brought into artificial intelligence most notably by Rodney Brooks who showed in the 1980s that robots could be more effective if they 'thought' (planned or processed) and perceived as little as possible. The robot's intelligence is geared towards only handling the minimal amount of information necessary to make its behavior be appropriate and/or as desired by its creator.\n\nOthers have argued that without taking into account both the architecture of the human brain, and embodiment, it is unrealistic to replicate accurately the processes which take place during language acquisition, comprehension, production, or during non-linguistic actions. There have thus been suggestions that while robots are far from isomorphic with humans, they could benefit from strengthened associative connections in the optimization of their processes and their reactivity and sensitivity to environmental stimuli, and in situated human-machine interaction, and that the concept of multisensory integration be extended to cover linguistic input and the complementary information combined from temporally coincident sensory impressions.\n\nThe embodied approach to AI has been given several names by different schools of researchers, including: Nouvelle AI (Brooks' term), Situated AI, Behavior based AI and Embodied cognitive science.\n\nOne source of inspiration for embodiment theory has been research in cognitive neuroscience, such as the proposals of Gerald Edelman concerning how mathematical and computational models such as neuronal group selection and neural degeneracy result in emergent categorization.\n\nRohrer (2005) discusses how both our neural and developmental embodiment shape both our mental and linguistic categorizations. The degree of thought abstraction has been found to be associated with physical distance which then affects associated ideas and perception of risk.\n\nThe embodied mind thesis is compatible with some views of cognition promoted in neuropsychology, such as the theories of consciousness of Vilayanur S. Ramachandran, Gerald Edelman, and Antonio Damasio.\n\nThe modeling work of cognitive neuroscientists such as Francisco Varela and Walter Freeman seeks to explain embodied and situated cognition in terms of dynamical systems theory and neurophenomenology, but rejects the idea that the brain uses representations to do so (a position also espoused by Gerhard Werner).\n\nResearch on embodied cognition is extremely broad, covering a wide range of concepts. Methods to study embodied cognition vary from experiment to experiment based on the operational definition used by researchers. There is much evidence for embodied cognition, although interpretation of results and their significance may be disputed. Researchers continue to search for the best way to study and interpret embodied cognition.\n\nSome criticize the notion that pre-verbal children provide an ideal channel for studying embodied cognition, especially embodied social cognition.\nIt may be impossible to know when a pre-verbal infant is a \"pure model\" of embodied cognition, since infants experience dramatic changes in social behavior throughout development. A 9-month old has reached a different developmental stage than a 2-month old. Looking-time and reaching measures of embodied cognition may not represent embodied cognition since infants develop object permanence of objects they can see before they develop object permanence with objects they can touch. True embodied cognition suggests that children would have to first physically engage with an object to understand object permanence.\n\nThe response to this critique is that infants are \"ideal models\" of embodied cognition. Infants are the best models because they utilize symbols less than adults do. Looking-time could likely be a better measure of embodied cognition than reaching because infants have not developed certain fine motor skills yet. Infants may first develop a passive mode of embodied cognition before they develop the active mode involving fine motor movements.\n\nSome criticize the conclusions made by researchers about embodied cognition. The pencil-in-teeth study is frequently cited as an example of these invalidly drawn conclusions. The researchers believed that the quicker responses to positive sentences by participants engaging their smiling muscles represented embodied cognition. However, opponents argue that the effects of this exercise were primed or facilitated by the engagement of certain facial muscles. Many cases of facilitative movements of the body may be incorrectly labeled as evidence of embodied cognition.\n\nThe following \"Six Views of Embodied Cognition\" are taken from Margaret Wilson:\n\n\nMargaret Wilson adds: \"Some authors go so far as to complain that the phrase 'situated cognition' implies, falsely, that there also exists cognition that is not situated (Greeno & Moore, 1993, p. 50).\" Of her six claims, she notes in her abstract, \"the first three and the fifth claim appear to be at least partially true, and their usefulness is best evaluated in terms of the range of their applicability. The fourth claim, I argue, is deeply problematic. The sixth claim has received the least attention, but it may in fact be the best documented and most powerful of the six claims.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9262", "title": "Entertainment", "text": "Entertainment\n\nEntertainment is a form of activity that holds the attention and interest of an audience, or gives pleasure and delight. It can be an idea or a task, but is more likely to be one of the activities or events that have developed over thousands of years specifically for the purpose of keeping an audience's attention. Although people's attention is held by different things, because individuals have different preferences in entertainment, most forms are recognisable and familiar. Storytelling, music, drama, dance, and different kinds of performance exist in all cultures, were supported in royal courts, developed into sophisticated forms and over time became available to all citizens. The process has been accelerated in modern times by an entertainment industry that records and sells entertainment products. Entertainment evolves and can be adapted to suit any scale, ranging from an individual who chooses a private entertainment from a now enormous array of pre-recorded products; to a banquet adapted for two; to any size or type of party, with appropriate music and dance; to performances intended for thousands; and even for a global audience.\n\nThe experience of being entertained has come to be strongly associated with amusement, so that one common understanding of the idea is fun and laughter, although many entertainments have a serious purpose. This may be the case in the various forms of ceremony, celebration, religious festival, or satire for example. Hence, there is the possibility that what appears as entertainment may also be a means of achieving insight or intellectual growth.\n\nAn important aspect of entertainment is the audience, which turns a private recreation or leisure activity into entertainment. The audience may have a passive role, as in the case of persons watching a play, opera, television show, or film; or the audience role may be active, as in the case of games, where the participant/audience roles may be routinely reversed. Entertainment can be public or private, involving formal, scripted performance, as in the case of theatre or concerts; or unscripted and spontaneous, as in the case of children's games. Most forms of entertainment have persisted over many centuries, evolving due to changes in culture, technology, and fashion for example with stage magic. Films and video games, for example, although they use newer media, continue to tell stories, present drama, and play music. Festivals devoted to music, film, or dance allow audiences to be entertained over a number of consecutive days.\n\nSome activities that were once considered entertaining, particularly public punishments, have been removed from the public arena. Others, such as fencing or archery, once necessary skills for some, have become serious sports and even professions for the participants, at the same time developing into entertainment with wider appeal for bigger audiences. In the same way, other necessary skills, such as cooking, have developed into performances among professionals, staged as global competitions and then broadcast for entertainment. What is entertainment for one group or individual may be regarded as work by another.\n\nThe familiar forms of entertainment have the capacity to cross over different media and have demonstrated a seemingly unlimited potential for creative remix. This has ensured the continuity and longevity of many themes, images, and structures.\n\nEntertainment can be distinguished from other activities such as education and marketing even though they have learned how to use the appeal of entertainment to achieve their different goals. The importance and impact of entertainment is recognised by scholars and its increasing sophistication has influenced practices in other fields such as museology.\n\nPsychologists say the function of media entertainment is \"the attainment of gratification\". No other results or measurable benefit are usually expected from it (except perhaps the final score in a sporting entertainment). This is in contrast to education (which is designed with the purpose of developing understanding or helping people to learn) and marketing (which aims to encourage people to purchase commercial products). However, the distinctions become blurred when education seeks to be more \"entertaining\" and entertainment or marketing seek to be more \"educational\". Such mixtures are often known by the neologisms \"edutainment\" or \"infotainment\". The psychology of entertainment as well as of learning has been applied to all these fields. Some education-entertainment is a serious attempt to combine the best features of the two. Some people are entertained by others' pain or the idea of their unhappiness (schadenfreude).\n\nAn entertainment might go beyond gratification and produce some insight in its audience. Entertainment may skillfully consider universal philosophical questions such as: \"What is the meaning of life?\"; \"What does it mean to be human?\"; \"What is the right thing to do?\"; or \"How do I know what I know?\". Questions such as these drive many narratives and dramas, whether they are presented in the form of a story, film, play, poem, book, dance, comic, or game. Dramatic examples include Shakespeare's influential play \"Hamlet\", whose hero articulates these concerns in poetry; and films, such as \"The Matrix\", which explores the nature of knowledge and was released world-wide. Novels give great scope for investigating these themes while they entertain their readers. An example of a creative work that considers philosophical questions so entertainingly that it has been presented in a very wide range of forms is \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\". Originally a radio comedy, this story became so popular that it has also appeared as a novel, film, television series, stage show, comic, audiobook, LP record, adventure game and online game, its ideas became popular references (see Phrases from The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy) and has been translated into many languages. Its themes encompass the meaning of life, as well as \"the ethics of entertainment, artificial intelligence, multiple worlds, God, and philosophical method\".\n\nThe \"ancient craft of communicating events and experiences, using words, images, sounds and gestures\" by telling a story is not only the means by which people passed on their cultural values and traditions and history from one generation to another, it has been an important part of most forms of entertainment ever since the earliest times. Stories are still told in the early forms, for example, around a fire while camping, or when listening to the stories of another culture as a tourist. \"The earliest storytelling sequences we possess, now of course, committed to writing, were undoubtedly originally a speaking from mouth to ear and their force as entertainment derived from the very same elements we today enjoy in films and novels.\" Storytelling is an activity that has evolved and developed \"toward variety\". Many entertainments, including storytelling but especially music and drama, remain familiar but have developed into a wide variety of form to suit a very wide range of personal preferences and cultural expression. Many types are blended or supported by other forms. For example, drama, stories and banqueting (or dining) are commonly enhanced by music; sport and games are incorporated into other activities to increase appeal. Some may have evolved from serious or necessary activities (such as running and jumping) into competition and then become entertainment. It is said, for example, that pole vaulting \"may have originated in the Netherlands, where people used long poles to vault over wide canals rather than wear out their clogs walking miles to the nearest bridge. Others maintain that pole vaulting was used in warfare to vault over fortress walls during battle.\" The equipment for such sports has become increasingly sophisticated. Vaulting poles, for example, were originally made from woods such as ash, hickory or hazel; in the 19th century bamboo was used and in the 21st century poles can be made of carbon fibre. Other activities, such as walking on stilts, are still seen in circus performances in the 21st century. Gladiatorial combats, also known as \"gladiatorial games\", popular during Roman times, provide a good example of an activity that is a combination of sport, punishment, and entertainment.\n\nChanges to what is regarded as entertainment can occur in response to cultural or historical shifts. Hunting wild animals, for example, was introduced into the Roman Empire from Carthage and became a popular public entertainment and spectacle, supporting an international trade in wild animals.\n\nEntertainment also evolved into different forms and expressions as a result of social upheavals such as wars and revolutions. During the Chinese Cultural Revolution, for example, Revolutionary opera was sanctioned by the Communist party and World War I, the Great Depression and the Russian revolution all affected entertainment.\n\nRelatively minor changes to the form and venue of an entertainment continue to come and go as they are affected by the period, fashion, culture, technology, and economics. For example, a story told in dramatic form can be presented in an open-air theatre, a music hall, a movie theatre, a multiplex, or as technological possibilities advanced, via a personal electronic device such as a tablet computer. Entertainment is provided for mass audiences in purpose-built structures such as a theatre, auditorium, or stadium. One of the most famous venues in the Western world, the Colosseum, \"dedicated AD 80 with a hundred days of games, held fifty thousand spectators,\" and in it audiences \"enjoyed \"blood sport with the trappings of stage shows\". Spectacles, competitions, races, and sports were once presented in this purpose-built arena as public entertainment. New stadia continue to be built to suit the ever more sophisticated requirements of global audiences.\n\nImperial and royal courts have provided training grounds and support for professional entertainers, with different cultures using palaces, castles and forts in different ways. In the Maya city states, for example, \"spectacles often took place in large plazas in front of palaces; the crowds gathered either there or in designated places from which they could watch at a distance.\" Court entertainments also crossed cultures. For example, the durbar was introduced to India by the Mughals, and passed onto the British Empire, which then followed Indian tradition: \"institutions, titles, customs, ceremonies by which a Maharaja or Nawab were installed ... the exchange of official presents ... the order of precedence\", for example, were \"all inherited from ... the Emperors of Delhi\". In Korea, the \"court entertainment dance\" was \"originally performed in the palace for entertainment at court banquets.\"\n\nCourt entertainment often moved from being associated with the court to more general use among commoners. This was the case with \"masked dance-dramas\" in Korea, which \"originated in conjunction with village shaman rituals and eventually became largely an entertainment form for commoners\". Nautch dancers in the Mughal Empire performed in Indian courts and palaces. Another evolution, similar to that from courtly entertainment to common practice, was the transition from religious ritual to secular entertainment, such as happened during the Goryeo dynasty with the Narye festival. Originally \"solely religious or ritualistic, a secular component was added at the conclusion\". Former courtly entertainments, such as jousting, often also survived in children's games.\n\nIn some courts, such as those during the Byzantine Empire, the genders were segregated among the upper classes, so that \"at least before the period of the Komnenoi\" (1081–1185) men were separated from women at ceremonies where there was entertainment such as receptions and banquets.\n\nCourt ceremonies, palace banquets and the spectacles associated with them, have been used not only to entertain but also to demonstrate wealth and power. Such events reinforce the relationship between ruler and ruled; between those with power and those without, serving to \"dramatise the differences between ordinary families and that of the ruler\". This is the case as much as for traditional courts as it is for contemporary ceremonials, such as the Hong Kong handover ceremony in 1997, at which an array of entertainments (including a banquet, a parade, fireworks, a festival performance and an art spectacle) were put to the service of highlighting a change in political power. Court entertainments were typically performed for royalty and courtiers as well as \"for the pleasure of local and visiting dignitaries\". Royal courts, such as the Korean one, also supported traditional dances. In Sudan, musical instruments such as the so-called \"slit\" or \"talking\" drums, once \"part of the court orchestra of a powerful chief\", had multiple purposes: they were used to make music; \"speak\" at ceremonies; mark community events; send long-distance messages; and call men to hunt or war.\n\nCourtly entertainments also demonstrate the complex relationship between entertainer and spectator: individuals may be either an entertainer or part of the audience, or they may swap roles even during the course of one entertainment. In the court at the Palace of Versailles, \"thousands of courtiers, including men and women who inhabited its apartments, acted as both performers and spectators in daily rituals that reinforced the status hierarchy\".\n\nLike court entertainment, royal occasions such as coronations and weddings provided opportunities to entertain both the aristocracy and the people. For example, the splendid 1595 Accession Day celebrations of Queen Elizabeth I offered tournaments and jousting and other events performed \"not only before the assembled court, in all their finery, but also before thousands of Londoners eager for a good day's entertainment. Entry for the day's events at the Tiltyard in Whitehall was set at 12d\".\n\nAlthough most forms of entertainment have evolved and continued over time, some once-popular forms are no longer as acceptable. For example, during earlier centuries in Europe, watching or participating in the punishment of criminals or social outcasts was an accepted and popular form of entertainment. Many forms of public humiliation also offered local entertainment in the past. Even capital punishment such as hanging and beheading, offered to the public as a warning, were also regarded partly as entertainment. Capital punishments that lasted longer, such as stoning and drawing and quartering, afforded a greater public spectacle. \"A hanging was a carnival that diverted not merely the unemployed but the unemployable. Good bourgeois or curious aristocrats who could afford it watched it from a carriage or rented a room.\" Public punishment as entertainment lasted until the 19th century by which time \"the awesome event of a public hanging aroused the[ir] loathing of writers and philosophers\". Both Dickens and Thackeray wrote about a hanging in Newgate Prison in 1840, and \"taught an even wider public that executions are obscene entertainments\".\n\nChildren's entertainment is centred on play and is significant for their growth. Entertainment is also provided to children or taught to them by adults and many activities that appeal to them such as puppets, clowns, pantomimes and cartoons are also enjoyed by adults.\n\nChildren have always played games. It is accepted that as well as being entertaining, playing games helps children's development. One of the most famous visual accounts of children's games is a painting by Pieter Bruegel the Elder called \"Children's Games\", painted in 1560. It depicts children playing a range of games that presumably were typical of the time. Many of these games, such as marbles, hide-and-seek, blowing soap bubbles and piggyback riding continue to be played.\nMost forms of entertainment can be or are modified to suit children's needs and interests. During the 20th century, starting with the often criticised but nonetheless important work of G. Stanley Hall, who \"promoted the link between the study of development and the 'new' laboratory psychology\", and especially with the work of Jean Piaget, who \"saw cognitive development as being analogous to biological development\", it became understood that the psychological development of children occurs in stages and that their capacities differ from adults. Hence, stories and activities, whether in books, film, or video games were developed specifically for child audiences. Countries have responded to the special needs of children and the rise of digital entertainment by developing systems such as television content rating systems, to guide the public and the entertainment industry.\n\nIn the 21st century, as with adult products, much entertainment is available for children on the internet for private use. This constitutes a significant change from earlier times. The amount of time expended by children indoors on screen-based entertainment and the \"remarkable collapse of children's engagement with nature\" has drawn criticism for its negative effects on imagination, adult cognition and psychological well-being.<ref name=\"http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2012/nov/19/children-lose-contact-with-nature\"></ref>\n\nBanquets have been a venue for entertainment since ancient times, continuing until the 21st century, when they are still being used for many of their original purposes to impress visitors, especially important ones (4, 6, 9); to show hospitality (2, 4, 8); as an occasion to showcase supporting entertainments such as music or dancing, or both (2, 3). They were an integral part of court entertainments (3, 4) and helped entertainers develop their skills (2, 3). They are also important components of celebrations such as coronations (9), weddings (7), birthdays (10) civic or political achievements (5), military engagements or victories (6) as well as religious obligations (1). In modern times, banquets are commercially available, for example, in restaurants (10) and combined with a performance in dinner theatres. Cooking by professional chefs has also become a form of entertainment as part of global competitions such as the Bocuse d'Or.\nMusic is a supporting component of many kinds of entertainment and most kinds of performance. For example, it is used to enhance storytelling, it is indispensable in dance (1, 4) and opera, and is usually incorporated into dramatic film or theatre productions.\n\nMusic is also a universal and popular type of entertainment on its own, constituting an entire performance such as when concerts are given (2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 ). Depending on the rhythm, instrument, performance and style, music is divided into many genres, such as classical, jazz, folk, (4, 5, 8), rock, pop music (6, 9) or traditional (1, 3). Since the 20th century, performed music, once available only to those who could pay for the performers, has been available cheaply to individuals by the entertainment industry, which broadcasts it or pre-records it for sale.\n\nThe wide variety of musical performances, whether or not they are artificially amplified (6, 7, 9, 10), all provide entertainment irrespective of whether the performance is from soloists (6), choral (2) or orchestral groups (5, 8), or ensemble (3). Live performances use specialised venues, which might be small or large; indoors or outdoors; free or expensive. The audiences have different expectations of the performers as well as of their own role in the performance. For example, some audiences expect to listen silently and are entertained by the excellence of the music, its rendition or its interpretation (5, 8). Other audiences of live performances are entertained by the ambience and the chance to participate (7, 9). Even more listeners are entertained by pre-recorded music and listen privately (10).\n\nThe instruments used in musical entertainment are either solely the human voice (2, 6) or solely instrumental (1, 3) or some combination of the two (4, 5, 7, 8). Whether the performance is given by vocalists or instrumentalists, the performers may be soloists or part of a small or large group, in turn entertaining an audience that might be individual (10), passing by (3), small (1, 2) or large (6, 7, 8, 9). Singing is generally accompanied by instruments although some forms, notably a cappella and overtone singing, are unaccompanied. Modern concerts often use various special effects and other theatrics to accompany performances of singing and dancing (7).\n\nGames are played for entertainment—sometimes purely for entertainment, sometimes for achievement or reward as well. They can be played alone, in teams, or online; by amateurs or by professionals. The players may have an audience of non-players, such as when people are entertained by watching a chess championship. On the other hand, players in a game may constitute their own audience as they take their turn to play. Often, part of the entertainment for children playing a game is deciding who is part of their audience and who is a player.\n\nEquipment varies with the game. Board games, such as Go, \"Monopoly\" or backgammon need a board and markers. One of the oldest known board games is Senet, a game played in Ancient Egypt, enjoyed by the pharaoh Tutankhamun. Card games, such as whist, poker and Bridge have long been played as evening entertainment among friends. For these games, all that is needed is a deck of playing cards. Other games, such as bingo, played with numerous strangers, have been organised to involve the participation of non-players via gambling. Many are geared for children, and can be played outdoors, including hopscotch, hide and seek, or Blind man's bluff. The list of ball games is quite extensive. It includes, for example, croquet, lawn bowling and paintball as well as many sports using various forms of balls. The options cater to a wide range of skill and fitness levels. Physical games can develop agility and competence in motor skills. Number games such as Sudoku and puzzle games like the Rubik's cube can develop mental prowess.\n\nVideo games are played using a controller to create results on a screen. They can also be played online with participants joining in remotely. In the second half of the 20th century and in the 21st century the number of such games increased enormously, providing a wide variety of entertainment to players around the world. Video games are popular in East Asian countries such as South Korea.\n\nReading has been a source of entertainment for a very long time, especially when other forms, such as performance entertainments, were (or are) either unavailable or too costly. Even when the primary purpose of the writing is to inform or instruct, reading is well known for its capacity to distract from everyday worries. Both stories and information have been passed on through the tradition of orality and oral traditions survive in the form of performance poetry for example. However, they have drastically declined. \"Once literacy had arrived in strength, there was no return to the oral prerogative.\" The advent of printing, the reduction in costs of books and an increasing literacy all served to enhance the mass appeal of reading. Furthermore, as fonts were standardised and texts became clearer, \"reading ceased being a painful process of decipherment and became an act of pure pleasure\". By the 16th century in Europe, the appeal of reading for entertainment was well established.\n\nAmong literature's many genres are some designed, in whole or in part, purely for entertainment. Limericks, for example, use verse in a strict, predictable rhyme and rhythm to create humour and to amuse an audience of listeners or readers. Interactive books such as \"choose your own adventure\" can make literary entertainment more participatory.\nComics and cartoons are literary genres that use drawings or graphics, usually in combination with text, to convey an entertaining narrative. Many contemporary comics have elements of fantasy and are produced by companies that are part of the entertainment industry. Others have unique authors who offer a more personal, philosophical view of the world and the problems people face. Comics about superheroes such as Superman are of the first type. Examples of the second sort include the individual work over 50 years of Charles M. Schulz who produced a popular comic called \"Peanuts\" about the relationships among a cast of child characters; and Michael Leunig who entertains by producing whimsical cartoons that also incorporate social criticism. The Japanese Manga style differs from the western approach in that it encompasses a wide range of genres and themes for a readership of all ages. Caricature uses a kind of graphic entertainment for purposes ranging from merely putting a smile on the viewer's face, to raising social awareness, to highlighting the moral characteristics of a person being caricatured.\n\nComedy is both a genre of entertainment and a component of it, providing laughter and amusement, whether the comedy is the sole purpose or used as a form of contrast in an otherwise serious piece. It is a valued contributor to many forms of entertainment, including in literature, theatre, opera, film and games. In royal courts, such as in the Byzantine court, and presumably, also in its wealthy households, \"mimes were the focus of orchestrated humour, expected or obliged to make fun of all at court, not even excepting the emperor and members of the imperial family. This highly structured role of jester consisted of verbal humour, including teasing, jests, insult, ridicule, and obscenity and non-verbal humour such as slapstick and horseplay in the presence of an audience.\" In medieval times, all comic types the buffoon, jester, hunchback, dwarf, jokester, were all \"considered to be essentially of one comic type: the fool\", who while not necessarily funny, represented \"the shortcomings of the individual\".\n\nShakespeare wrote seventeen comedies that incorporate many techniques still used by performers and writers of comedy—such as jokes, puns, parody, wit, observational humor, or the unexpected effect of irony. One-liner jokes and satire are also used to comedic effect in literature. In farce, the comedy is a primary purpose.\n\nThe meaning of the word \"comedy\" and the audience's expectations of it have changed over time and vary according to culture. Simple physical comedy such as slapstick is entertaining to a broad range of people of all ages. However, as cultures become more sophisticated, national nuances appear in the style and references so that what is amusing in one culture may be unintelligible in another.\n\nLive performances before an audience constitute a major form of entertainment, especially before the invention of audio and video recording. Performance takes a wide range of forms, including theatre, music and drama. In the 16th and 17th centuries, European royal courts presented masques that were complex theatrical entertainments involving dancing, singing and acting. Opera is a similarly demanding performance style that remains popular. It also encompass all three forms, demanding a high level of musical and dramatic skill, collaboration and like the masque, production expertise as well.\nAudiences generally show their appreciation of an entertaining performance with applause. However, all performers run the risk of failing to hold their audience's attention and thus, failing to entertain. Audience dissatisfaction is often brutally honest and direct.\n\nStorytelling is an ancient form of entertainment that has influenced almost all other forms. It is \"not only entertainment, it is also thinking through human conflicts and contradictions\". Hence, although stories may be delivered directly to a small listening audience, they are also presented as entertainment and used as a component of any piece that relies on a narrative, such as film, drama, ballet, and opera. Written stories have been enhanced by illustrations, often to a very high artistic standard, for example, on illuminated manuscripts and on ancient scrolls such as Japanese ones. Stories remain a common way of entertaining a group that is on a journey. Showing how stories are used to pass the time and entertain an audience of travellers, Chaucer used pilgrims in his literary work \"The Canterbury Tales\" in the 14th century, as did Wu Cheng'en in the 16th century in \"Journey to the West\". Even though journeys can now be completed much faster, stories are still told to passengers en route in cars and aeroplanes either orally or delivered by some form of technology.\n\nThe power of stories to entertain is evident in one of the most famous ones—Scheherazade—a story in the Persian professional storytelling tradition, of a woman who saves her own life by telling stories. The connections between the different types of entertainment are shown by the way that stories like this inspire a retelling in another medium, such as music, film or games. For example, composers Rimsky-Korsakov, Ravel and Szymanowski have each been inspired by the Scheherazade story and turned it into an orchestral work; director Pasolini made a film adaptation; and there is an innovative video game based on the tale. Stories may be told wordlessly, in music, dance or puppetry for example, such as in the Javanese tradition of wayang, in which the performance is accompanied by a gamelan orchestra or the similarly traditional Punch and Judy show.\n\nEpic narratives, poems, sagas and allegories from all cultures tell such gripping tales that they have inspired countless other stories in all forms of entertainment. Examples include the Hindu \"Ramayana\" and \"Mahabharata\"; Homer's \"Odyssey\" and \"Iliad\"; the first Arabic novel \"Hayy ibn Yaqdhan\"; the Persian epic \"Shahnameh\"; the Sagas of Icelanders and the celebrated \"Tale of the Genji\". Collections of stories, such as \"Grimms' Fairy Tales\" or those by Hans Christian Andersen, have been similarly influential. Originally published in the early 19th century, this collection of folk stories significantly influence modern popular culture, which subsequently used its themes, images, symbols, and structural elements to create new entertainment forms.\n\nSome of the most powerful and long-lasting stories are the foundation stories, also called origin or creation myths such as the Dreamtime myths of the Australian aborigines, the Mesopotamian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", or the Hawaiian stories of the origin of the world. These too are developed into books, films, music and games in a way that increases their longevity and enhances their entertainment value.\n\nTheatre performances, typically dramatic or musical, are presented on a stage for an audience and have a history that goes back to Hellenistic times when \"leading musicians and actors\" performed widely at \"poetical competitions\", for example at \"Delphi, Delos, Ephesus\". Aristotle and his teacher Plato both wrote on the theory and purpose of theatre. Aristotle posed questions such as \"What is the function of the arts in shaping character? Should a member of the ruling class merely watch performances or be a participant and perform? What kind of entertainment should be provided for those who do not belong to the elite?\" The \"Ptolemys in Egypt, the Seleucids in Pergamum\" also had a strong theatrical tradition and later, wealthy patrons in Rome staged \"far more lavish productions\".\n\nExpectations about the performance and their engagement with it have changed over time (1). For example, in England during the 18th century, \"the prejudice against actresses had faded\" and in Europe generally, going to the theatre, once a socially dubious activity, became \"a more respectable middle-class pastime\" in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, when the variety of popular entertainments increased. Operetta and music halls became available, and new drama theatres such as the Moscow Art Theatre and the Suvorin Theatre in Russia opened. At the same time, commercial newspapers \"began to carry theatre columns and reviews\" that helped make theatre \"a legitimate subject of intellectual debate\" in general discussions about art and culture. Audiences began to gather to \"appreciate creative achievement, to marvel at, and be entertained by, the prominent 'stars'.\" Vaudeville and music halls, popular at this time in the United States, England, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, were themselves eventually superseded.\n\nPlays, musicals, monologues, pantomimes, and performance poetry are part of the very long history of theatre, which is also the venue for the type of performance known as stand-up comedy. In the 20th century, radio and television, often broadcast live, extended the theatrical tradition that continued to exist alongside the new forms.\n\nThe stage and the spaces set out in front of it for an audience create a theatre. All types of stage are used with all types of seating for the audience, including the impromptu or improvised (2, 3, 6); the temporary (2); the elaborate (9); or the traditional and permanent (5, 7). They are erected indoors (3, 5, 9) or outdoors (2, 4, 6). The skill of managing, organising and preparing the stage for a performance is known as stagecraft (10). The audience's experience of the entertainment is affected by their expectations, the stagecraft, the type of stage, and the type and standard of seating provided.\n\nFilms are a major form of entertainment, although not all films have entertainment as their primary purpose: documentary film, for example, aims to create a record or inform, although the two purposes often work together. The medium was a global business from the beginning: \"The Lumière brothers were the first to send cameramen throughout the world, instructing them to film everything which could be of interest for the public.\" In 1908, Pathé launched and distributed newsreels and by World War I, films were meeting an enormous need for mass entertainment. \"In the first decade of the [20th] century cinematic programmes combined, at random, fictions and newsfilms.\" The Americans first \"contrived a way of producing an illusion of motion through successive images,\" but \"the French were able to transform a scientific principle into a commercially lucrative spectacle\". Film therefore became a part of the entertainment industry from its early days. Increasingly sophisticated techniques have been used in the film medium to delight and entertain audiences. Animation, for example, which involves the display of rapid movement in an art work, is one of these techniques that particularly appeals to younger audiences. The advent of computer-generated imagery (CGI) in the 21st century made it \"possible to do spectacle\" more cheaply and \"on a scale never dreamed of\" by Cecil B. DeMille. From the 1930s to 1950s, movies and radio were the \"only mass entertainment\" but by the second decade of the 21st century, technological changes, economic decisions, risk aversion and globalisation reduced both the quality and range of films being produced. Sophisticated visual effects and CGI techniques, for example, rather than humans, were used not only to create realistic images of people, landscapes and events (both real and fantastic) but also to animate non-living items such as Lego normally used as entertainment as a game in physical form. Creators of \"The Lego Movie\" \"wanted the audience to believe they were looking at actual Lego bricks on a tabletop that were shot with a real camera, not what we actually did, which was create vast environments with digital bricks inside the computer.\" The convergence of computers and film has allowed entertainment to be presented in a new way and the technology has also allowed for those with the personal resources to screen films in a home theatre, recreating in a private venue the quality and experience of a public theatre. This is similar to the way that the nobility in earlier times could stage private musical performances or the use of domestic theatres in large homes to perform private plays in earlier centuries.\n\nFilms also re-imagine entertainment from other forms, turning stories, books and plays, for example, into new entertainments. \"\", a documentary about the history of film, gives a survey of global achievements and innovations in the medium, as well as changes in the conception of film-making. It demonstrates that while some films, particularly those in the Hollywood tradition that combines \"realism and melodramatic romanticism\", are intended as a form of escapism, others require a deeper engagement or more thoughtful response from their audiences. For example, the award winning Senegalese film \"Xala\" takes government corruption as its theme. Charlie Chaplin's film \"The Great Dictator\" was a brave and innovative parody, also on a political theme. Stories that are thousands of years old, such as \"Noah\", have been re-interpreted in film, applying familiar literary devices such as allegory and personification with new techniques such as CGI to explore big themes such as \"human folly\", good and evil, courage and despair, love, faith, and death themes that have been a main-stay of entertainment across all its forms.\n\nAs in other media, excellence and achievement in films is recognised through a range of awards, including ones from the American Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the British Academy of Film and Television Arts, the Cannes International Film Festival in France and the Asia Pacific Screen Awards.\n\nThe many forms of dance provide entertainment for all age groups and cultures. Dance can be serious in tone, such as when it is used to express a culture's history or important stories; it may be provocative; or it may put in the service of comedy. Since it combines many forms of entertainment music, movement, storytelling, theatre it provides a good example of the various ways that these forms can be combined to create entertainment for different purposes and audiences.\n\nDance is \"a form of cultural representation\" that involves not just dancers, but \"choreographers, audience members, patrons and impresarios ... coming from all over the globe and from vastly varied time periods.\" Whether from Africa, Asia or Europe, dance is constantly negotiating the realms of political, social, spiritual and artistic influence.\" Even though dance traditions may be limited to one cultural group, they all develop. For example, in Africa, there are \"Dahomean dances, Hausa dances, Masai dances and so forth.\" Ballet is an example of a highly developed Western form of dance that moved to the theatres from the French court during the time of Louis XIV, the dancers becoming professional theatrical performers. Some dances, such as the quadrille, a square dance that \"emerged during the Napoleonic years in France\" and other country dances were once popular at social gatherings like balls, but are now rarely performed. On the other hand, many folk dances (such as Scottish Highland dancing and Irish dancing), have evolved into competitions, which by adding to their audiences, has increased their entertainment value. \"Irish dance theatre, which sometimes features traditional Irish steps and music, has developed into a major dance form with an international reputation.\"\n\nSince dance is often \"associated with the female body and women's experiences\", female dancers, who dance to entertain, have in some cases been regarded as distinct from \"decent\" women because they \"use their bodies to make a living instead of hiding them as much as possible\". Society's attitudes to female dancers depend on the culture, its history and the entertainment industry itself. For example, while some cultures regard any dancing by women as \"the most shameful form of entertainment\", other cultures have established venues such as strip clubs where deliberately erotic or sexually provocative dances such as striptease are performed in public by professional women dancers for mostly male audiences.\n\nVarious political regimes have sought to control or ban dancing or specific types of dancing, sometimes because of disapproval of the music or clothes associated with it. Nationalism, authoritarianism and racism have played a part in banning dances or dancing. For example, during the Nazi regime, American dances such as swing, regarded as \"completely un-German\", had \"become a public offense and needed to be banned\". Similarly, in Shanghai, China, in the 1930s, \"dancing and nightclubs had come to symbolise the excess that plagued Chinese society\" and officials wondered if \"other forms of entertainment such as brothels\" should also be banned. Banning had the effect of making \"the dance craze\" even greater. In Ireland, the Public Dance Hall Act of 1935 \"banned but did not stop dancing at the crossroads and other popular dance forms such as house and barn dances.\" In the US, various dances were once banned, either because like burlesque, they were suggestive, or because, like the Twist, they were associated with African Americans. \"African American dancers were typically banned from performing in minstrel shows until after the Civil War.\"\n\nDances can be performed solo (1, 4); in pairs, (2, 3); in groups, (5, 6, 7); or by massed performers (10). They might be improvised (4, 8) or highly choreographed (1, 2, 5, 10); spontaneous for personal entertainment, (such as when children begin dancing for themselves); a private audience, (4); a paying audience (2); a world audience (10); or an audience interested in a particular dance genre (3, 5). They might be a part of a celebration, such as a wedding or New Year (6, 8); or a cultural ritual with a specific purpose, such as a dance by warriors like a haka (7). Some dances, such as traditional dance in 1 and ballet in 2, need a very high level of skill and training; others, such as the can-can, require a very high level of energy and physical fitness. Entertaining the audience is a normal part of dance but its physicality often also produces joy for the dancers themselves (9).\n\nAnimals have been used for the purposes of entertainment for millennia. They have been hunted for entertainment (as opposed to hunted for food); displayed while they hunt for prey; watched when they compete with each other; and watched while they perform a trained routine for human amusement. The Romans, for example, were entertained both by competitions involving wild animals and acts performed by trained animals. They watched as \"lions and bears danced to the music of pipes and cymbals; horses were trained to kneel, bow, dance and prance ... acrobats turning handsprings over wild lions and vaulting over wild leopards.\" There were \"violent confrontations with wild beasts\" and \"performances over time became more brutal and bloodier\".\n\nAnimals that perform trained routines or \"acts\" for human entertainment include fleas in flea circuses, dolphins in dolphinaria, and monkeys doing tricks for an audience on behalf of the player of a street organ. Animals kept in zoos in ancient times were often kept there for later use in the arena as entertainment or for their entertainment value as exotica.\n\nMany contests between animals are now regarded as sports for example, horse racing is regarded as both a sport and an important source of entertainment. Its economic impact means that it is also considered a global industry, one in which horses are carefully transported around the world to compete in races. In Australia, the horse race run on Melbourne Cup Day is a public holiday and the public regards the race as an important annual event. Like horse racing, camel racing requires human riders, while greyhound racing does not. People find it entertaining to watch animals race competitively, whether they are trained, like horses, camels or dogs, or untrained, like cockroaches.\n\nThe use of animals for entertainment is often controversial, especially the hunting of wild animals. Some contests between animals, once popular entertainment for the public, have become illegal because of the cruelty involved. Among these are blood sports such as bear-baiting, dog fighting and cockfighting. Other contests involving animals remain controversial and have both supporters and detractors. For example, the conflict between opponents of pigeon shooting who view it as \"a cruel and moronic exercise in marksmanship, and proponents, who view it as entertainment\" has been tested in a court of law. Fox hunting, which involves the use of horses as well as hounds, and bullfighting, which has a strong theatrical component, are two entertainments that have a long and significant cultural history. They both involve animals and are variously regarded as sport, entertainment or cultural tradition. Among the organisations set up to advocate for the rights of animals are some whose concerns include the use of animals for entertainment. However, \"in many cases of animal advocacy groups versus organisations accused of animal abuse, both sides have cultural claims.\"\n\nA circus, described as \"one of the most brazen of entertainment forms\", is a special type of theatrical performance, involving a variety of physical skills such as acrobatics and juggling and sometimes performing animals. Usually thought of as a travelling show performed in a big top, circus was first performed in permanent venues. Philip Astley is regarded as the founder of the modern circus in the second half of the 18th century and Jules Léotard is the French performer credited with developing the art of the trapeze, considered synonymous with circuses. Astley brought together performances that were generally familiar in traditional British fairs \"at least since the beginning of the 17th century\": \"tumbling, rope-dancing, juggling, animal tricks and so on\". It has been claimed that \"there is no direct link between the Roman circus and the circus of modern times. ... Between the demise of the Roman 'circus' and the foundation of Astley's Amphitheatre in London some 1300 years later, the nearest thing to a circus ring was the rough circle formed by the curious onlookers who gathered around the itinerant tumbler or juggler on a village green.\"\n\nThe form of entertainment known as stage magic or conjuring and recognisable as performance, is based on traditions and texts of magical rites and dogmas that have been a part of most cultural traditions since ancient times. (References to magic, for example, can be found in the Bible, in Hermeticism, in Zoroastrianism, in the Kabbalistic tradition, in mysticism and in the sources of Freemasonry.)\n\nStage magic is performed for an audience in a variety of media and locations: on stage, on television, in the street, and live at parties or events. It is often combined with other forms of entertainment, such as comedy or music and showmanship is often an essential part of magic performances. Performance magic relies on deception, psychological manipulation, sleight of hand and other forms of trickery to give an audience the illusion that a performer can achieve the impossible. Audiences amazed at the stunt performances and escape acts of Harry Houdini, for example, regarded him as a magician.\n\nFantasy magicians have held an important place in literature for centuries, offering entertainment to millions of readers. Famous wizards such as Merlin in the Arthurian legends have been written about since the 5th and 6th centuries, while in the 21st century, the young wizard Harry Potter became a global entertainment phenomenon when the book series about him sold about 450 million copies (as at June 2011), making it the best-selling book series in history.\n\nStreet entertainment, street performance or \"busking\" are forms of performance that have been meeting the public's need for entertainment for centuries. It was \"an integral aspect of London's life\", for example, when the city in the early 19th century was \"filled with spectacle and diversion\". Minstrels or troubadours are part of the tradition. The art and practice of busking is still celebrated at annual busking festivals.\n\nThere are three basic forms of contemporary street performance. The first form is the \"circle show\". It tends to gather a crowd, usually has a distinct beginning and end, and is done in conjunction with street theatre, puppeteering, magicians, comedians, acrobats, jugglers and sometimes musicians. This type has the potential to be the most lucrative for the performer because there are likely to be more donations from larger audiences if they are entertained by the act. Good buskers control the crowd so patrons do not obstruct foot traffic. The second form, the \"walk-by act\", has no distinct beginning or end. Typically, the busker provides an entertaining ambience, often with an unusual instrument, and the audience may not stop to watch or form a crowd. Sometimes a walk-by act spontaneously turns into a circle show. The third form, \"café busking\", is performed mostly in restaurants, pubs, bars and cafés. This type of act occasionally uses public transport as a venue.\n\nParades are held for a range of purposes, often more than one. Whether their mood is sombre or festive, being public events that are designed to attract attention and activities that necessarily divert normal traffic, parades have a clear entertainment value to their audiences. Cavalcades and the modern variant, the motorcade, are examples of public processions. Some people watching the parade or procession may have made a special effort to attend, while others become part of the audience by happenstance. Whatever their mood or primary purpose, parades attract and entertain people who watch them pass by. Occasionally, a parade takes place in an improvised theatre space (such as the Trooping the Colour in 8) and tickets are sold to the physical audience while the global audience participates via broadcast.\n\nOne of the earliest forms of parade were \"triumphs\" grand and sensational displays of foreign treasures and spoils, given by triumphant Roman generals to celebrate their victories. They presented conquered peoples and nations that exalted the prestige of the victor. \"In the summer of 46 BCE Julius Caesar chose to celebrate four triumphs held on different days extending for about one month.\" In Europe from the Middle Ages to the Baroque the Royal Entry celebrated the formal visit of the monarch to the city with a parade through elaborately decorated streets, passing various shows and displays. The annual Lord Mayor's Show in London is an example of a civic parade that has survived since medieval times.\n\nMany religious festivals (especially those that incorporate processions, such as Holy Week processions or the Indian festival of Holi) have some entertainment appeal in addition to their serious purpose. Sometimes, religious rituals have been adapted or evolved into secular entertainments, or like the Festa del Redentore in Venice, have managed to grow in popularity while holding both secular and sacred purposes in balance. However, pilgrimages, such as the Christian pilgrimage of the Way of St. James, the Muslim Hajj and the Hindu Kumbh Mela, which may appear to the outsider as an entertaining parade or procession, are not intended as entertainment: they are instead about an individual's spiritual journey. Hence, the relationship between spectator and participant, unlike entertainments proper, is different. The manner in which the Kumbh Mela, for example, \"is divorced from its cultural context and repackaged for Western consumption renders the presence of voyeurs deeply problematic.\"\n\nParades generally impress and delight often by including unusual, colourful costumes (7, 10). Sometimes they also commemorate (5, 8) or celebrate (1, 4, 6, 8, 9). Sometimes they have a serious purpose, such as when the context is military (1, 2, 5), when the intention is sometimes to intimidate; or religious, when the audience might participate or have a role to play (6, 7, 10). Even if a parade uses new technology and is some distance away (9), it is likely to have a strong appeal, draw the attention of onlookers and entertain them.\n\nFireworks are a part of many public entertainments and have retained an enduring popularity since they became a \"crowning feature of elaborate celebrations\" in the 17th century. First used in China, classical antiquity and Europe for military purposes, fireworks were most popular in the 18th century and high prices were paid for pyrotechnists, especially the skilled Italian ones, who were summoned to other countries to organise displays. Fire and water were important aspects of court spectacles because the displays \"inspired by means of fire, sudden noise, smoke and general magnificence the sentiments thought fitting for the subject to entertain of his sovereign: awe fear and a vicarious sense of glory in his might. Birthdays, name-days, weddings and anniversaries provided the occasion for celebration.\" One of the most famous courtly uses of fireworks was one used to celebrate the end of the War of the Austrian Succession and while the fireworks themselves caused a fire, the accompanying Music for the Royal Fireworks written by Handel has been popular ever since. Aside from their contribution to entertainments related to military successes, courtly displays and personal celebrations, fireworks are also used as part of religious ceremony. For example, during the Indian Dashavatara Kala of Gomantaka \"the temple deity is taken around in a procession with a lot of singing, dancing and display of fireworks\".\n\nThe \"fire, sudden noise and smoke\" of fireworks is still a significant part of public celebration and entertainment. For example, fireworks were one of the primary forms of display chosen to celebrate the turn of the millennium around the world. As the clock struck midnight and 1999 became 2000, firework displays and open-air parties greeted the New Year as the time zones changed over to the next century. Fireworks, carefully planned and choreographed, were let off against the backdrop of many of the world's most famous buildings, including the Sydney Harbour Bridge, the Pyramids of Giza in Egypt, the Acropolis in Athens, Red Square in Moscow, Vatican City in Rome, the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, the Eiffel Tower in Paris, and Elizabeth Tower in London.\n\nSporting competitions have always provided entertainment for crowds. To distinguish the players from the audience, the latter are often known as spectators. Developments in stadium and auditorium design, as well as in recording and broadcast technology, have allowed off-site spectators to watch sport, with the result that the size of the audience has grown ever larger and spectator sport has become increasingly popular. Two of the most popular sports with global appeal are association football and cricket. Their ultimate international competitions, the World Cup and test cricket, are broadcast around the world. Beyond the very large numbers involved in playing these sports, they are notable for being a major source of entertainment for many millions of non-players worldwide. A comparable multi-stage, long-form sport with global appeal is the Tour de France, unusual in that it takes place outside of special stadia, being run instead in the countryside.\n\nAside from sports that have world-wide appeal and competitions, such as the Olympic Games, the entertainment value of a sport depends on the culture and country where people play it. For example, in the United States, baseball and basketball games are popular forms of entertainment; in Bhutan, the national sport is archery; in New Zealand, it is rugby union; in Iran, it is freestyle wrestling. Japan's unique sumo wrestling contains ritual elements that derive from its long history. In some cases, such as the international running group Hash House Harriers, participants create a blend of sport and entertainment for themselves, largely independent of spectator involvement, where the social component is more important than the competitive.\n\nThe evolution of an activity into a sport and then an entertainment is also affected by the local climate and conditions. For example, the modern sport of surfing is associated with Hawaii and that of snow skiing probably evolved in Scandinavia. While these sports and the entertainment they offer to spectators have spread around the world, people in the two originating countries remain well known for their prowess. Sometimes the climate offers a chance to adapt another sport such as in the case of ice hockey—an important entertainment in Canada.\n\nFairs and exhibitions have existed since ancient and medieval times, displaying wealth, innovations and objects for trade and offering specific entertainments as well as being places of entertainment in themselves. Whether in a medieval market or a small shop, \"shopping always offered forms of exhilaration that took one away from the everyday\". However, in the modern world, \"merchandising has become entertainment: spinning signs, flashing signs, thumping music ... video screens, interactive computer kiosks, day care .. cafés\".\n\nBy the 19th century, \"expos\" that encouraged arts, manufactures and commerce had become international. They were not only hugely popular but affected international ideas. For example, the 1878 Paris Exposition facilitated international cooperation about ideas, innovations and standards. From London 1851 to Paris 1900, \"in excess of 200 million visitors had entered the turnstiles in London, Paris, Vienna, Philadelphia, Chicago and a myriad of smaller shows around the world.\" Since World War II \"well over 500 million visits have been recorded through world expo turnstiles\". As a form of spectacle and entertainment, expositions influenced \"everything from architecture, to patterns of globalisation, to fundamental matters of human identity\" and in the process established the close relationship between \"fairs, the rise of department stores and art museums\", the modern world of mass consumption and the entertainment industry.\n\nSome entertainments, such as at large festivals (whether religious or secular), concerts, clubs, parties and celebrations, involve big crowds. From earliest times, crowds at an entertainment have associated hazards and dangers, especially when combined with the recreational consumption of intoxicants such as alcohol. The Ancient Greeks had Dionysian Mysteries, for example, and the Romans had Saturnalia. The consequence of excess and crowds can produce breaches of social norms of behaviour, sometimes causing injury or even death, such as for example, at the Altamont Free Concert, an outdoor rock festival. The list of serious incidents at nightclubs includes those caused by stampede; overcrowding; terrorism, such as the 2002 Bali bombings that targeted a nightclub; and especially fire. Investigations, such as that carried out in the US after The Station nightclub fire often demonstrate that lessons learned \"regarding fire safety in nightclubs\" from earlier events such as the Cocoanut Grove fire do \"not necessarily result in lasting effective change\". Efforts to prevent such incidents include appointing special officers, such as the medieval Lord of Misrule or, in modern times, security officers who control access; and also ongoing improvement of relevant standards such as those for building safety. The tourism industry now regards safety and security at entertainment venues as an important management task.\n\nAlthough kings, rulers and powerful people have always been able to pay for entertainment to be provided for them and in many cases have paid for public entertainment, people generally have made their own entertainment or when possible, attended a live performance. Technological developments in the 20th century meant that entertainment could be produced independently of the audience, packaged and sold on a commercial basis by an entertainment industry. Sometimes referred to as show business, the industry relies on business models to produce, market, broadcast or otherwise distribute many of its traditional forms, including performances of all types. The industry became so sophisticated that its economics became a separate area of academic study.\n\nThe film industry is a part of the entertainment industry. Components of it include the Hollywood and Bollywood film industries, as well as the cinema of the United Kingdom and all the cinemas of Europe, including France, Germany, Spain, Italy and others. The sex industry is another component of the entertainment industry, applying the same forms and media (for example, film, books, dance and other performances) to the development, marketing and sale of sex products on a commercial basis.\n\nAmusement parks entertain paying guests with rides, such as roller coasters, ridable miniature railways, water rides, and dark rides, as well as other events and associated attractions. The parks are built on a large area subdivided into themed areas named \"lands\". Sometimes the whole amusement park is based on one theme, such as the various SeaWorld parks that focus on the theme of sea life.\n\nOne of the consequences of the development of the entertainment industry has been the creation of new types of employment. While jobs such as writer, musician and composer exist as they always have, people doing this work are likely to be employed by a company rather than a patron as they once would have been. New jobs have appeared, such as gaffer or special effects supervisor in the film industry, and attendants in an amusement park.\n\nPrestigious awards are given by the industry for excellence in the various types of entertainment. For example, there are awards for Music, Games (including video games), Comics, Comedy, Theatre, Television, Film, Dance and Magic. Sporting awards are made for the results and skill, rather than for the entertainment value.\n\nPurpose-built structures as venues for entertainment that accommodate audiences have produced many famous and innovative buildings, among the most recognisable of which are theatre structures. For the ancient Greeks, \"the architectural importance of the theatre is a reflection of their importance to the community, made apparent in their monumentality, in the effort put into their design, and in the care put into their detail.\" The Romans subsequently developed the stadium in an oval form known as a circus. In modern times, some of the grandest buildings for entertainment have brought fame to their cities as well as their designers. The Sydney Opera House, for example, is a World Heritage Site and The O₂ in London is an entertainment precinct that contains an indoor arena, a music club, a cinema and exhibition space. The Bayreuth Festspielhaus in Germany is a theatre designed and built for performances of one specific musical composition.\n\nTwo of the chief architectural concerns for the design of venues for mass audiences are speed of egress and safety. The speed at which the venue empty is important both for amenity and safety, because large crowds take a long time to disperse from a badly designed venue, which creates a safety risk. The Hillsborough disaster is an example of how poor aspects of building design can contribute to audience deaths. Sightlines and acoustics are also important design considerations in most theatrical venues.\n\nIn the 21st century, entertainment venues, especially stadia, are \"likely to figure among the leading architectural genres\". However, they require \"a whole new approach\" to design, because they need to be \"sophisticated entertainment centres, multi-experience venues, capable of being enjoyed in many diverse ways\". Hence, architects now have to design \"with two distinct functions in mind, as sports and entertainment centres playing host to live audiences, and as sports and entertainment studios serving the viewing and listening requirements of the remote audience\".\n\nArchitects who push the boundaries of design or construction sometimes create buildings that are entertaining because they exceed the expectations of the public and the client and are aesthetically outstanding. Buildings such as Guggenheim Museum Bilbao, designed by Frank Gehry, are of this type, becoming a tourist attraction as well as a significant international museum. Other apparently usable buildings are really follies, deliberately constructed for a decorative purpose and never intended to be practical.\n\nOn the other hand, sometimes architecture is entertainment, while pretending to be functional. The tourism industry, for example, creates or renovates buildings as \"attractions\" that have either never been used or can never be used for their ostensible purpose. They are instead re-purposed to entertain visitors often by simulating cultural experiences. Buildings, history and sacred spaces are thus made into commodities for purchase. Such intentional tourist attractions divorce buildings from the past so that \"the difference between historical authenticity and contemporary entertainment venues/theme parks becomes hard to define\". Examples include \"the preservation of the Alcázar of Toledo, with its grim Civil War History, the conversion of slave dungeons into tourist attractions in Ghana, [such as, for example, Cape Coast Castle] and the presentation of indigenous culture in Libya\". The specially constructed buildings in amusement parks represent the park's theme and are usually neither authentic nor completely functional.\n\nBy the second half of the 20th century, developments in electronic media made possible the delivery of entertainment products to mass audiences across the globe. The technology enabled people to see, hear and participate in all the familiar forms stories, theatre, music, dance wherever they live. The rapid development of entertainment technology was assisted by improvements in data storage devices such as cassette tapes or compact discs, along with increasing miniaturisation. Computerisation and the development of barcodes also made ticketing easier, faster and global.\n\nIn the 1940s, radio was the electronic medium for family entertainment and information. In the 1950s, it was television that was the new medium and it rapidly became global, bringing visual entertainment, first in black and white, then in colour, to the world. By the 1970s, games could be played electronically, then hand-held devices provided mobile entertainment, and by the last decade of the 20th century, via networked play. In combination with products from the entertainment industry, all the traditional forms of entertainment became available personally. People could not only select an entertainment product such as a piece of music, film or game, they could choose the time and place to use it. The \"proliferation of portable media players and the emphasis on the computer as a site for film consumption\" together have significantly changed how audiences encounter films. One of the most notable consequences of the rise of electronic entertainment has been the rapid obsolescence of the various recording and storage methods. As an example of speed of change driven by electronic media, over the course of one generation, television as a medium for receiving standardised entertainment products went from unknown, to novel, to ubiquitous and finally to superseded. One estimate was that by 2011 over 30 percent of households in the US would own a Wii console, \"about the same percentage that owned a television in 1953\". Some expected that halfway through the second decade of the 21st century, online entertainment would have completely replaced television—which didn't happen. The so-called \"digital revolution\" has produced an increasingly transnational marketplace that has caused difficulties for governments, business, industries, and individuals, as they all try to keep up. Even the sports stadium of the future will increasingly compete with television viewing \"...in terms of comfort, safety and the constant flow of audio-visual information and entertainment available.\" Other flow on effects of the shift are likely to include those on public architecture such as hospitals and nursing homes, where television, regarded as an essential entertainment service for patients and residents, will need to be replaced by access to the internet. At the same time, the ongoing need for entertainers as \"professional engagers\" shows the continuity of traditional entertainment.\n\nBy the second decade of the 21st century, analogue recording was being replaced by digital recording and all forms of electronic entertainment began to converge. For example, convergence is challenging standard practices in the film industry: whereas \"success or failure used to be determined by the first weekend of its run. Today, ... a series of exhibition 'windows', such as DVD, pay-per-view, and fibre-optic video-on-demand are used to maximise profits.\" Part of the industry's adjustment is its release of new commercial product directly via video hosting services. Media convergence is said to be more than technological: the convergence is cultural as well. It is also \"the result of a deliberate effort to protect the interests of business entities, policy institutions and other groups\". Globalisation and cultural imperialism are two of the cultural consequences of convergence. Others include fandom and interactive storytelling as well as the way that single franchises are distributed through and affect a range of delivery methods. The \"greater diversity in the ways that signals may be received and packaged for the viewer, via terrestrial, satellite or cable television, and of course, via the Internet\" also affects entertainment venues, such as sports stadia, which now need to be designed so that both live and remote audiences can interact in increasingly sophisticated ways for example, audiences can \"watch highlights, call up statistics\", \"order tickets and merchandise\" and generally \"tap into the stadium's resources at any time of the day or night\".\n\nThe introduction of television altered the availability, cost, variety and quality of entertainment products for the public and the convergence of online entertainment is having a similar effect. For example, the possibility and popularity of user-generated content, as distinct from commercial product, creates a \"networked audience model [that] makes programming obsolete\". Individuals and corporations use video hosting services to broadcast content that is equally accepted by the public as legitimate entertainment.\n\nWhile technology increases demand for entertainment products and offers increased speed of delivery, the forms that make up the content are in themselves, relatively stable. Storytelling, music, theatre, dance and games are recognisably the same as in earlier centuries.\n\n"}
{"id": "9639784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9639784", "title": "Equal justice under law", "text": "Equal justice under law\n\nEqual justice under law is a phrase engraved on the front of the United States Supreme Court building in Washington D.C. It is also a societal ideal that has influenced the American legal system.\n\nThe phrase was proposed by the building's architects, and then approved by judges of the Court in 1932. It is based upon Fourteenth Amendment jurisprudence, and has historical antecedents dating back to ancient Greece.\n\nThis phrase was suggested in 1932 by the architectural firm that designed the building. Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes and Justice Willis Van Devanter subsequently approved this inscription, as did the United States Supreme Court Building Commission which Hughes chaired (and on which Van Devanter served).\n\nThe architectural firm that proposed the phrase was headed by Cass Gilbert, though Gilbert himself was much more interested in design and arrangement, than in meaning. Thus, according to David Lynn who at that time held the position of Architect of the Capitol, the two people at Gilbert's firm who were responsible for the slogan \"equal justice under law\" were Gilbert's son (Cass Gilbert, Jr.) and Gilbert's partner, John R. Rockart.\n\nIn 1935, the journalist Herbert Bayard Swope objected to Chief Justice Hughes about this inscription, urging that the word \"equal\" be removed because such a \"qualification\" renders the phrase too narrow; the equality principle would still be implied without that word, Swope said. Hughes refused, writing that it was appropriate to \"place a strong emphasis upon impartiality\".\n\nThis legal soundbite atop the Court is perceived differently by different people, sometimes as ostentatious, often as profound, and occasionally as vacuous. According to law professor Jim Chen, it is common for people to \"suggest that disagreement with some contestable legal proposition or another would be tantamount to chiseling or sandblasting 'Equal Justice Under Law' from the Supreme Court's portico.\" The phrase may be perceived in a variety of ways, but it very distinctly does not say \"equal law under justice\", which would have meant that the judiciary can prioritize justice over law.\n\nThe words \"equal justice under law\" paraphrase an earlier expression coined in 1891 by the Supreme Court. In the case of \"Caldwell v. Texas\", Chief Justice Melville Fuller wrote on behalf of a unanimous Court as follows, regarding the Fourteenth Amendment: \"the powers of the States in dealing with crime within their borders are not limited, but no State can deprive particular persons or classes of persons of equal and impartial justice under the law.\" The last seven words are summarized by the inscription on the U.S. Supreme Court building.\n\nLater in 1891, Fuller's opinion for the Court in \"Leeper v. Texas\" again referred to \"equal...justice under...law\". Like \"Caldwell\", the \"Leeper\" opinion was unanimous, in contrast to the Fuller Court's major disagreements about equality issues in other cases such as \"Plessy v. Ferguson\". \n\nIn both \"Caldwell\" and \"Leeper\", murder indictments were challenged because they allegedly gave inadequate notice of the crimes being charged. The Court upheld the indictments because they followed the form required by Texas law. In a case nine years later (\"Maxwell v. Dow\"), the Court quoted the \"equal...justice under...law\" phrase that it had used in \"Caldwell\" and \"Leeper\", to make the point that Utah could devise its own criminal procedure, as long as defendants are \"proceeded against by the same kind of procedure and ... have the same kind of trial, and the equal protection of the laws is secured to them.\"\n\nIn the 1908 case of \"Ughbanks v. Armstrong\", the Fuller Court yet again discussed the Fourteenth Amendment in similar terms, but this time mentioning punishments: \"The last-named Amendment was not intended to, and does not, limit the powers of a State in dealing with crime committed within its own borders or with the punishment thereof, although no State can deprive particular persons or classes of persons of equal and impartial justice under the law.\" \n\n\"Ughbanks\" was a burglary case, and the opinion was written for the Court by Justice Rufus Peckham, while Justice John Marshall Harlan was the sole dissenter. The Court would later reject the idea that the Fourteenth Amendment does not limit punishments (see the 1962 case of \"Robinson v. California\"). \n\nIn the years since moving into their present building, the Supreme Court has often connected the words \"equal justice under law\" with the Fourteenth Amendment. For example, in the 1958 case of \"Cooper v. Aaron\", the Court said: \"The Constitution created a government dedicated to equal justice under law. The Fourteenth Amendment embodied and emphasized that ideal.\" \n\nThe words \"equal justice under law\" are not in the Constitution, which instead says that no state shall \"deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.\" From an architectural perspective, the main advantage of the former over the latter was brevity — the Equal Protection Clause was not short enough to fit on the pediment given the size of the letters to be used.\n\nIn the funeral oration that he delivered in 431 BC, the Athenian leader Pericles encouraged belief in what we now call equal justice under law. Thus, when Chief Justice Fuller wrote his opinion in \"Caldwell v. Texas\", he was by no means the first to discuss this concept. There are several different English translations of the relevant passage in Pericles' funeral oration. \n\nHere is Pericles discussing \"equal justice\" according to the English translation by Richard Crawley in 1874:\n\nOur constitution does not copy the laws of neighbouring states; we are rather a pattern to others than imitators ourselves. Its administration favours the many instead of the few; this is why it is called a democracy. If we look to the laws, they afford equal justice to all in their private differences; if no social standing, advancement in public life falls to reputation for capacity, class considerations not being allowed to interfere with merit; nor again does poverty bar the way, if a man is able to serve the state, he is not hindered by the obscurity of his condition.\n\nThe English translation by Benjamin Jowett in 1881 likewise had Pericles saying: \"the law secures equal justice to all alike in their private disputes\". And, the English translation by Rex Warner in 1954 had Pericles saying: \"there exists equal justice to all and alike in their private disputes\". The funeral oration by Pericles was published in Thucydides’ \"History of the Peloponnesian War\", of which there are several other English translations. \n\nAs quoted above, Pericles said that a person's wealth or prominence should not influence his eligibility for public employment or affect the justice he receives. Similarly, Chief Justice Hughes defended the inscription \"equal justice under law\" by referring to the judicial oath of office, which requires judges to \"administer justice without respect to persons, and do equal right to the poor and to the rich\". Decades later, Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall made a similar point: \"The principles which would have governed with $10,000 at stake should also govern when thousands have become billions. That is the essence of equal justice under law.\"\n\n\nStatue of Thurgood Marshall featuring \"Equal Justice Under Law\".\n"}
{"id": "34045124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34045124", "title": "Exterior space", "text": "Exterior space\n\nIn mathematics, the notion of externology in a topological space \"X\" generalizes the basic properties of the family\n\nof complements of the closed compact subspaces of \"X\", which are used to construct its Alexandroff compactification. An externology permits to introduce a notion of end point, to study the divergence of nets in terms of convergence to end points and it is a useful tool for the study and classification of some families of non compact topological spaces. It can also be used to approach a topological space as the limit of other topological spaces: the externologies are very useful when a compact metric space embedded in a Hilbert space is approached by its open neighbourhoods.\n\nLet (X,τ) be a topological space. An externology on (X,τ) is a non-empty collection ε of open subsets satisfying:\n\nAn exterior space (X,τ,ε) consists of a topological space (X,τ) together with an externology ε. An open E which is in ε is said to be an exterior-open subset. A map f:(X,τ,ε) → (X',τ',ε') is said to be an exterior map if it is continuous and f(E) ∈ ε, for all E ∈ ε'.\n\nThe category of exterior spaces and exterior maps will be denoted by E. It is remarkable that E is a complete and cocomplete category.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1679959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1679959", "title": "Forum non conveniens", "text": "Forum non conveniens\n\nForum non conveniens (Latin for \"forum not agreeing\") (FNC) is a (mostly) common law legal doctrine whereby courts may refuse to take jurisdiction over matters where there is a more appropriate forum available to the parties. As a doctrine of the conflict of laws, \"forum non conveniens\" applies between courts in different countries and between courts in different jurisdictions in the same country. \"Forum non conveniens\" is not applicable between counties or federal districts within a state.\n\nA concern often raised in applications of the doctrine is forum shopping, or picking a court merely to gain an advantage in the proceeding. This concern is balanced against the public policy of deferring to a plaintiff's choice of venue in claims where there may be more than one appropriate jurisdiction. The underlying principles, such as basing respect given to foreign courts on reciprocal respect or comity, also apply in civil law systems in the form of the legal doctrine of \"lis alibi pendens\".\n\n\"Forum non conveniens\" is not exclusive to common law nations: the maritime courts of the Republic of Panama, although not a common law jurisdiction, also have such power under more restrained conditions.\n\nA country, state, or other jurisdiction enacts laws which are interpreted and applied through a system of courts. The laws applied by a particular system of courts or legal system are termed the \"lex fori\", or law of the forum. As a matter of civil procedure, courts must decide whether and in what circumstances they will accept jurisdiction over parties and subject matter when a lawsuit begins. This decision will be routine, or not raised at all, if the relevant elements of the case are within the territorial jurisdiction of the court. If one or more of the parties resides outside the territorial jurisdiction or there are other factors which might make another forum more appropriate, the question of jurisdiction must be settled.\n\nScholars and jurists seem to find a Scottish origin prior to the first American use of the concept. Some writers see the doctrine of FNC as having developed from an earlier doctrine of \"forum non competens\" (\"non-competent forum\"). Many early cases in the U.S. and Scotland involving FNC were cases under admiralty law. FNC thus may ultimately have a civil law origin, as has been asserted by several writers, since admiralty law is based in civil law concepts.\n\nThe doctrine of FNC originated in the United States in \"Willendson v. Forsoket\" [29 Fed Cas 1283 (DC Pa 1801)] (No 17,682) where a federal district court in Pennsylvania declined to exercise jurisdiction over a Danish sea captain who was being sued for back wages by a Danish seaman, stating that \"[i]f any differences should hereafter arise, it must be settled by a Danish tribunal.\" In Scotland, the concept is first recorded in \"MacMaster v. MacMaster\" (Judgment of 7 June 1833, Sess, Scot 11 Sess Cas, First Series 685.)\n\nThe doctrine has limited application in most civil law jurisdictions which prefer \"lis alibi pendens\", although the principle behind FNC is acknowledged. As a member of the European Union, the United Kingdom signed the Brussels Convention. The Civil Jurisdiction and Judgments Act (1982) as amended by the Civil Jurisdiction and Judgments Act (1991) states:\nThe case of \"Owusu v Jackson and Others\" before the European Court of Justice, was concerned with the relationship between Article 2 of the Brussels Convention and the scope of FNC within the European Community. In \"Owusu\", the English Court of Appeal asked the ECJ whether it could stay a matter brought to it under Article 2 Brussels Convention pursuant to the English FNC rules. The Court held that the Brussels Convention was a mandatory set of rules designed to harmonise and so produce a predictable system throughout the EU. If states were able to derogate from the Convention using their domestic rules of civil procedure, this would deny a uniform result to proceedings based on forum selection. Hence, at 46. the ECJ held:\nHowever, some UK commentators argue that the FNC rules may still apply to cases where the other proceedings are not in a Member state but this remains uncertain. What is certain is that a Scottish Court may sist its proceedings in favour of the Courts of England or Northern Ireland on the ground of FNC, since this is settling intra-UK jurisdiction.\n\nIn the jurisdictions where the FNC rule survives, a court will usually dismiss a case when the judge determines that the dispute would be better adjudicated in a different forum. Courts have been split in their applications of the rule. In \"Oceanic Sun Line Special Shipping Co v Fay\" (1988) 165 CLR 197 and \"Voth v Manildra Flour Mills\" (1990) 171 CLR 538 the High Court of Australia refused to adopt the \"most suitable forum\" approach and instead devised its own \"clearly inappropriate forum\" test. Nevertheless, the Australian courts balanced the foreign and local factors, and a dismissal would only be granted if the defendant could show that he was \"oppressed\" or \"harassed\" by the plaintiff's choice of Australia for legal action. This retained the rationale of the traditional doctrine, making it impossible for Australian defendants to obtain a dismissal from their own courts on FNC grounds. In \"Regie National des Usines Renault SA v Zhang\" (2002) 210 CLR 491, the High Court affirmed the \"clearly inappropriate forum\" test as Australian law, while stating that even where the law of a foreign country had to be applied to decide a case, Australia would not be a \"clearly inappropriate\" forum for hearing the matter.\nHowever, with the advent of the Civil Procedure Act (2005), this common law position in Australia has changed.\n\nThe doctrine of FNC in Canada was considered in \"Amchem Products Inc. v. British Columbia Worker's Compensation Board\", [1993] 1 S.C.R. 897. The Court held that the test for striking out a claim for FNC is where \"there is another forum that is clearly more appropriate than the domestic forum.\" If the forums are both found to be equally convenient, the domestic forum will always win out.\n\nConvenience is weighed, using a multi-factored test that includes elements such as: the connection between the plaintiff's claim and the forum, the connection between the defendant and the forum, unfairness to the defendant by choosing the forum, unfairness to the plaintiff in not choosing the forum, involvement of other parties to the suit (i.e. location of witnesses), and issues of comity such as reciprocity and standard of adjudication.\n\nThe Supreme Court has underlined that FNC inquiries are similar to but distinct from the Real and Substantial connection\" test used in challenges to jurisdiction. The most important difference is that applying FNC is a discretionary choice between two forums, each of which could legally hear the issue.\n\nThe law of the province of Quebec, Canada is slightly different. The Quebec Civil Code 1994, at art. 3135 c.c.q., provides:\nThe practical effects are identical to any other jurisdiction but the wording used by the code is different. For decisions applying art. 3135 c.c.q., see \"H.L. Boulton & Co. S.C.C.A. v. Banque Royale du Canada\" (1995) R.J.Q. 213 (Quebec. Supr. Ct.); \"Lamborghini (Canada) Inc. v. Automobili Lamborghini S.P.A.\" (1997) R.J.Q. 58 (Quebec. C.A.); \"Spar Aerospace v. American Mobile Satellite\" (2002) 4 S.C.R. 205, and \"Grecon Dimter Inc. v. J.R. Normand Inc.\" (2004) R.J.Q. 88 (Quebec. C.A.)\n\nThe defendant may move to dismiss an action on the ground of FNC. Invoking this doctrine usually means that the plaintiff properly invoked the jurisdiction of the court, but it is inconvenient for the court and the defendant to have a trial in the original jurisdiction. The court must balance convenience against the plaintiff’s choice of forum. In other words, if the plaintiff’s choice of forum was reasonable, the defendant must show a compelling reason to change jurisdiction. If a transfer would simply shift the inconvenience from one party to the other, the plaintiff’s choice of forum should not be disturbed.\n\nGenerally, a corporation sued in the jurisdiction of its headquarters is not entitled to seek an FNC dismissal. Thus if an American corporation is sued in an area where it only transacts business but not where it has its headquarters, and the court dismisses based upon FNC, the plaintiff may refile the action in the jurisdiction of the corporation’s headquarters.\n\nIn deciding whether to grant the motion, the court considers:\n\nAdditional factors include:\n\nThe determination of the court may not be arbitrary or abusive as this is a drastic remedy to be applied with caution and restraint.\n\nAs for the transfer of a trial to a jurisdiction outside of the U.S., courts will only grant the transfer if a foreign court is “more appropriate”, and there may be a real opportunity to obtain justice there.\nIn New York, for example, there is a strong presumption in favor of the plaintiff’s choice of forum. See Gulf Oil v. Gilbert, 330 U.S. 501, 508 (1947); R. Maganlal & Co., 942 F.2d 164, 167 (2nd Cir. 1991); Wiwa v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co., 226 F.3d 88, 101 (2d Cir. 2000); and Maran Coal Corp. V. Societe Generale de Surveillance S.A., No. 92 CIV 8728, 1993 US.Dist. LEXIS 12160 at *6 (S.D.N.Y. September 2, 1993). A defendant must show compelling evidence in order to disturb the choice of forum. The burden of proof is on the defendant: Strategic Value Master Fund, Ltd. v. Cargill Fin. Serv. Corp., 421 F.2d 741, 754 (S.D.N.Y. 2006). The court must also consider the defendant’s vast resources compared with the plaintiff’s limited resources as an aggrieved individual: See Wiwa at 107: “defendants have not demonstrated that these costs [of shipping documents and witnesses] are excessively burdensome, especially in view of defendant’s vast resources”. Also, Presbyterian Church of Sudan v. Talisman Energy, Inc., 244 F.Supp.2d 289 (S.D.N.Y. 2003) at 341: “A countervailing factor is the relative means of the parties”.\nIn 2006, the 2nd Circuit Federal Court in New York issued a decision in the famous Coca-Cola case. Coca-Cola took over assets of Jews expelled from Egypt in the 1950s and was sued in New York. Bigio v. Coca-Cola Company, 448 F.3d 176 (2d Cir. 2006), \"certiorari\" to Sup. Ct. denied. In that case, the plaintiffs were Canadians and non‐residents of New York. The court denied Coca-Cola’s FNC motion and the U.S. Supreme Court denied \"certiorari\". The 2nd Circuit stated that the fact that the New York court would need to apply “modest application” of Egyptian law was not a problem because “courts of this Circuit are regularly called upon to interpret foreign law without thereby offending the principles of international comity”. Also, the fact that there were witnesses abroad was not a problem either. They could be flown into the U.S. or Letters Rogatory could be issued to the Egyptian courts to collect their testimony. Further, it was held that in an FNC scenario, a court applies the balance of conveniences, but preference (and weight) must be given to the fact that plaintiffs chose this particular forum for “legitimate reasons”. The fact that plaintiffs could sue in Canada was not relevant because Coca-Cola was a U.S. company and it was “perfectly reasonable to sue in the US”.\n\nThe doctrine of FNC gained little footing in the civil law world, which prefers the approach of \"lis alibi pendens\" (see Articles 21-23 Brussels Convention). The civil law jurisdictions generally base jurisdiction on the residence of the defendant and on choice of law rules favouring the habitual residence of the parties, the \"lex situs\", and the \"lex loci solutionis\" (applying \"actor sequitur forum rei\"). This reflects an expectation that a defendant should be sued at his \"own\" courts, modified to reflect different priorities in certain types of case. As an example of this expectation, Article 2 Brussels I Regulation (as well as the corresponding Lugano conventions) provides:\nBut this is subject to the substantial exceptions contained in Articles 3–6, the limitations on insurance actions in Articles 7–12, and consumer contracts in Articles 13–15. Article 16 also grants exclusive jurisdiction to specified jurisdictions as the \"lex situs\" of immovable property and a \"res\", and for the status of companies, the validity of public registers with particular reference to the registration and validity of patents, and the enforcement of judgments. Subsequent articles allow forum selection clauses and other forms of agreement between the parties to confer jurisdiction on a given forum. The Brussels Regime therefore represents a harmonised set of rules for the determination of all questions of jurisdiction throughout the EU and EFTA (but not Liechtenstein) excluding FNC.\n\nThe issue of FNC arises in shipping cases since different parties may be involved as charterers or consignees and because of the international nature of the law of the sea and maritime trade. Despite several different conventions dealing with aspects of international trade, jurisdictional disputes are common. Moreover, in some instances, a case in the United States may be initiated under U.S. state law when Admiralty law (which is a Federal jurisdiction) would be the more appropriate forum. If this occurs, the case may be removed to the Federal Courts or to the courts of another state on FNC grounds.\n\nFor example, suppose that a container ship comes into port in Miami, Florida, United States. The ship, which is Liberian-registered, is wanted as security for various debts incurred by its Master while in Denmark. Made aware of the ship's presence, a local lawyer moves to impose a lien which involves a form of arrest by means of \"de novo\" proceedings \"in rem\". The local Federal district sitting in Admiralty determines that the ship's Master had ostensible authority as an agent to pledge the credit of the ship's owners (who are English). It also determines that neither the ship nor its owners have violated American law in any way, and the local court is not in a good position to hear witnesses who are all resident in other states. Further, major liability in demurrage to the innocent charterers, forwarders, etc. will be incurred if the ship is detained without just cause, so it would not be unreasonable for the Federal Court to decline jurisdiction. Whether there is subsequent litigation in another state will depend on the tactics of the creditors. Without a lien over the ship or the ability to obtain some form of control over the assets of the debtor, making a claim for money owing may not be cost-effective. But if there have already been proceedings on the issue of liability before a court of competent jurisdiction in another state so that the action in Miami is purely by way of enforcement, the Miami jurisdiction, whether it be state or federal would be the \"forum conveniens\" because the ship is physically within the jurisdiction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2151684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2151684", "title": "Frank Francisco", "text": "Frank Francisco\n\nFranklin Thomas Francisco (born September 11, 1979) is a Dominican former professional baseball pitcher. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Texas Rangers, Toronto Blue Jays, New York Mets and Chicago White Sox.\n\nFrancisco was originally signed as an amateur free agent by the Boston Red Sox. He was traded by the Red Sox to the Chicago White Sox on July 31, , along with Byeong Hak An, in exchange for reliever Bob Howry. On July 1, , the White Sox acquired Carl Everett from the Texas Rangers in exchange for three players to be named later.\n\nOn July 25, 2003, Francisco, Josh Rupe, and minor leaguer Anthony Webster were sent to the Rangers to complete the trade.\n\nFrancisco is best known for participating in a notable incident involving fan violence. On September 13, , he threw a folding chair into the crowd during a game against the Oakland Athletics. The incident initially escalated when Rangers pitcher Doug Brocail confronted a fan. Francisco, who was in the dugout when all this was happening in the bullpen, ran from the dugout to the bullpen and threw a folding chair into the crowd, hitting a female fan in the face, breaking her nose and causing a cut which required stitches. Francisco was arrested and on June 30, 2005, he pleaded no contest to the charges. He was sentenced to anger management classes and a work program. A civil suit brought by the woman who had been struck by the chair was settled on January 12, 2007. Terms of the settlement included an undisclosed payment and a public apology.\n\nFrancisco was suspended for the balance of the 2004 season, and missed the entire season after undergoing Tommy John surgery. Francisco rejoined the club on September 8, .\n\nAfter a poor spring training, Francisco started with the Rangers' Triple-A affiliate, the Oklahoma RedHawks. Following an injury to Éric Gagné in mid-April, Francisco was recalled to the majors. Francisco spent time in as the Rangers' closer after an injury to regular closer C. J. Wilson.\n\nFrancisco again began as the closer. He began with seven scoreless innings, allowing three hits and one walk, while garnering two saves. Through the end of April, Francisco maintained a 0.00 ERA with one walk and nine strikeouts, as well as six saves. He allowed his first run of 2009 on an upper-deck home run by Oakland Athletics' second baseman, Adam Kennedy.\n\nFrancisco and the Rangers agreed to a one-year contract of $3.265 million, thereby avoiding arbitration for the 2010 season.\n\nFrancisco lost the closer's role after blowing saves in his first two chances of the 2010 baseball season.\n\nOn January 25, 2011, Francisco was traded to the Toronto Blue Jays in exchange for catcher Mike Napoli.\n\nOn January 29, Francisco agreed to terms with the Blue Jays on a one-year contract. After a stint on the disabled list, Francisco made his debut as a Blue Jay on April 20. On his first pitch as a Blue Jay, Francisco gave up a home run to the Yankees' Curtis Granderson.\n\nOn December 6, 2011, Francisco agreed to a two-year contract worth $12 million with the New York Mets. Frank Francisco made his Mets debut on April 5, 2012 against the Atlanta Braves, and was named the Mets' closer for the 2012 season.\n\nOn May 13, 2012, Francisco was ejected from a game against the Miami Marlins at Marlins Park after an outburst towards the home plate umpire.\n\nOn June 23, 2012, after a save against the New York Yankees, Francisco was placed on the 15-day disabled list after feeling soreness in his oblique muscle. Before he began a rehabilitation assignment to come off the DL, Francisco aggravated his injury. On August 22, 2012, Francisco showed frustration by hurling a cooler in the dugout after giving up two runs in the top of the ninth inning. On December 18, 2012, Francisco had surgery to remove a bone spur from his right elbow.\n\nOn May 30, 2013, Francisco was moved to the 60-day disabled list to make room on the 40-man roster for shortstop Omar Quintanilla.\n\nOn April 14, 2014, the White Sox signed Francisco to a minor league contract, and assigned him to the Triple-A Charlotte Knights. On April 17, when Frank De Los Santos was transferred from the Birmingham Barons, Francisco was transferred to the Rookie Pioneer League team, the Great Falls Voyagers. On May 10, the White Sox purchased his contract from Charlotte and brought him up to the major leagues. He was designated for assignment on May 22, 2014. He cleared waivers and was assigned outright to Charlotte on May 24. Francisco refused the assignment and became a free agent.\n\nFrancisco signed a minor league deal in late June with Toronto but was released on July 14, 2014, after not appearing in a game.\n"}
{"id": "46281196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46281196", "title": "Fred L. Banks Jr.", "text": "Fred L. Banks Jr.\n\nFred L. Banks Jr. (born September 1, 1942) is a former Mississippi Supreme Court justice, having served on the court from 1991 to 2001.\n\nBanks grew up in Jackson, Mississippi, the son of F. L. Banks Sr. and Violet Mabery Banks, and graduated from Lanier High School in 1960. He received a B.B.A. from Howard University in Washington, D.C., followed by a J.D. from the Howard University School of Law, in 1968, where he graduated \"cum laude\", second in his class. Banks \"chose to enter the law to help African Americans achieve equality\", being one of only a handful of African American attorneys in the state at the time of his graduation. After gaining admission to the bar in Mississippi, he entered into private practice in Jackson with several other attorneys acting as local counsel for the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund. He then formed a law firm with several of those attorneys, Reuben Anderson, E.M. Nichols, and Melvyn R. Leventhal.\n\nIn 1975, Banks was elected to represent Hinds County in the Mississippi House of Representatives. He was twice re-elected. During his time in the House, Banks chaired the House Ethics Committee, the House Judiciary Committee, and the Legislative Black Caucus. Banks, along with Representatives Horace L. Buckley and Douglas L. Anderson, also from Jackson, fought to preserve records from the pro-segregation Mississippi State Sovereignty Commission, in opposition to a bill which would authorize the destruction of these records. Also during this period, on September 24, 1979, President Jimmy Carter announced his appointment of Banks as one of nine members of the National Advisory Council on the Education of Disadvantaged Children.\n\nDuring this time, Reuben Anderson had been appointed to a seat as a Circuit Judge for the 7th Circuit District, encompassing Hinds County and Yazoo. Banks served in the legislature until February 1985, when Anderson was Governor William Allain, having elevated Reuben Anderson to the Mississippi Supreme Court, appointed Banks to Anderson's seat on the 7th Circuit District. Banks was twice re-elected without opposition. In January 1991, following Anderson's resignation from the Mississippi Supreme Court, Governor Ray Mabus appointed Banks to fill the remainder of Anderson's term. Banks was elected to serve the remainder of that term in November 1991 and re-elected to a full term in November 1996.\n\nIn 1993, Banks was mentioned as a potential nominee to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, during the administration of President Bill Clinton, as there were no African American judges on the Fifth Circuit. Clinton ultimately appointed Louisiana state court judge Carl E. Stewart as the first African American judge on the Fifth Circuit.\n\nBanks retired from the court in 2001, and thereafter became a senior partner at the law firm of Phelps Dunbar.\n"}
{"id": "32290692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32290692", "title": "Hopfian object", "text": "Hopfian object\n\nIn the branch of mathematics called category theory, a hopfian object is an object \"A\" such that any epimorphism of \"A\" onto \"A\" is necessarily an automorphism. The dual notion is that of a cohopfian object, which is an object \"B\" such that every monomorphism from \"B\" into \"B\" is necessarily an automorphism. The two conditions have been studied in the categories of groups, rings, modules, and topological spaces.\n\nThe terms \"hopfian\" and \"cohopfian\" have arisen since the 1960s, and are said to be in honor of Heinz Hopf and his use of the concept of the hopfian group in his work on fundamental groups of surfaces. \n\nBoth conditions may be viewed as types of finiteness conditions in their category. For example, assuming Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory with the axiom of choice and working in the category of sets, the hopfian and cohopfian objects are precisely the finite sets. From this it is easy to see that all finite groups, finite modules and finite rings are hopfian and cohopfian in their categories.\n\nHopfian objects and cohopfian objects have an elementary interaction with projective objects and injective objects. The two results are:\nThe proof for the first statement is short: Let \"A\" be and injective hopfian object, and let \"f\" be an injective morphism from \"A\" to \"A\". By injectivity, \"f\" factors through the identity map \"I\" on \"A\", yielding a morphism \"g\" such that \"gf\"=\"I\". As a result, \"g\" is a surjective morphism and hence an automorphism, and then \"f\" is necessarily the inverse automorphism to \"g\". This proof can be dualized to prove the second statement.\n\nHere are several basic results in the category of modules. It is especially important to remember that \"R\" being hopfian or cohopfian as a module is different from \"R\" being hopfian or cohopfian as a ring.\n\n\nThe situation in the category of rings is quite different from the category of modules. The reader should note that the morphisms in the category of rings with unity are required to preserve the identity, that is, to send 1 to 1.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "730821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=730821", "title": "Imagined community", "text": "Imagined community\n\nAn imagined community is a concept developed by Benedict Anderson in his 1983 book \"Imagined Communities\", to analyze nationalism. Anderson depicts a nation as a socially constructed community, imagined by the people who perceive themselves as part of that group.\n\nThe media also creates imagined communities, through usually targeting a mass audience or generalizing and addressing citizens as the public. Another way that the media can create imagined communities is through the use of images. The media can perpetuate stereotypes through certain images and vernacular. By showing certain images, the audience will choose which image they relate to the most, furthering the relationship to that imagined community.\n\nAccording to Anderson, creation of imagined communities became possible because of \"print capitalism\". Capitalist entrepreneurs printed their books and media in the vernacular (instead of exclusive script languages, such as Latin) in order to maximize circulation. As a result, readers speaking various local dialects became able to understand each other, and a common discourse emerged. Anderson argued that the first European nation-states were thus formed around their \"national print-languages.\"\n\nAccording to Anderson's theory of imagined communities, the main causes of nationalism are the declining importance of privileged access to particular script languages (such as Latin) because of mass vernacular literacy; the movement to abolish the ideas of rule by divine right and hereditary monarchy; and the emergence of printing press capitalism (\"the convergence of capitalism and print technology... standardization of national calendars, clocks and language was embodied in books and the publication of daily newspapers\")—all phenomena occurring with the start of the Industrial Revolution.\n\nWhile attempting to define nationalism, Anderson identifies three paradoxes:\n\n\"(1) The objective modernity of nations to the historians' eyes vs. their subjective antiquity in the eyes of nationalists. (2) The formal universality of nationality as a socio-cultural concept [and] (3) the 'political' power of such nationalisms vs. their philosophical poverty and even incoherence.\"\n\nAnderson talks of Unknown Soldier tombs as an example of nationalism. The tombs of Unknown Soldiers are either empty or hold unidentified remains, but each nation with these kinds of memorials claim these soldiers as their own. No matter what the actual origin of the Unknown Soldier is, these nations have placed them within their own imagined community.\n\nHe defined a nation as \"an imagined political community\". As Anderson puts it, a nation \"is imagined because the members of even the smallest nation will never know most of their fellow-members, meet them, or even hear of them, yet in the minds of each lives the image of their communion\". Members of the community probably will never know each of the other members face to face; however, they may have similar interests or identify as part of the same nation. Members hold in their minds a mental image of their affinity: for example, the nationhood felt with other members of your nation when your \"imagined community\" participates in a larger event such as the Olympic Games.\n\nFinally, a nation is a community because,\n\nBenedict Anderson arrived at his theory because he felt that neither Marxist nor liberal theory adequately explained nationalism.\n\nAnderson falls into the \"historicist\" or \"modernist\" school of nationalism along with Ernest Gellner and Eric Hobsbawm in that he posits that nations and nationalism are products of modernity and have been created as means to political and economic ends. This school stands in opposition to the primordialists, who believe that nations, if not nationalism, have existed since early human history. Imagined communities can be seen as a form of social constructionism on a par with Edward Said's concept of imagined geographies.\n\nIn contrast to Gellner and Hobsbawm, Anderson is not hostile to the idea of nationalism nor does he think that nationalism is obsolete in a globalizing world. Anderson values the utopian element in nationalism.\n\nAccording to Harald Bauder, the concept of imagined communities remains highly relevant in a contemporary context of how nation-states frame and formulate their identities in relation to domestic and foreign policy, such as policies towards immigrants and migration. According to Euan Hague, \"Anderson's concept of nations being 'imagined communities' has become standard within books reviewing geographical thought\".\n\nEven though the term was coined to specifically describe nationalism, it is now used more broadly, almost blurring it with community of interest. For instance, it can be used to refer to a community based on sexual orientation, or awareness of global risk factors.\n\n"}
{"id": "55735689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55735689", "title": "Info-metrics", "text": "Info-metrics\n\nInfo-metrics is an interdisciplinary approach to scientific modeling, inference and efficient information processing. It is the science of modeling, reasoning, and drawing inferences under conditions of noisy and limited information. From the point of view of the sciences, this framework is at the intersection of information theory, statistical methods of inference, applied mathematics, computer science, econometrics, complexity theory, decision analysis, modeling, and the philosophy of science.\n\nInfo-metrics provides a constrained optimization framework to tackle under-determined or ill-posed problems – problems where there is not sufficient information for finding a unique solution. Such problems are very common across all sciences: available information is incomplete, limited, noisy and uncertain. Info-metrics is useful for modelling , information processing , theory building, and inference problems across the scientific spectrum. The info-metrics framework can also be used to test hypotheses about competing theories or causal mechanisms.\n\nInfo-metrics evolved from the classical maximum entropy formalism, which is based on the work of Shannon. Early contributions were mostly in the natural and mathematical/statistical sciences. Since the mid 1980s and especially in the mid 1990s the maximum entropy approach was generalized and extended to handle a larger class of problems in the social and behavioral sciences, especially for complex problems and data. The word ‘info-metrics’ was coined in 2009 by Amos Golan, right before the interdisciplinary Info-Metrics Institute was inaugurated.\n\nConsider a random variable formula_1 that can result in one of \"K\" distinct outcomes. The probability formula_2 of each outcome formula_3 is formula_4 for formula_5. Thus, formula_6 is a \"K\"-dimensional probability distribution defined for formula_1 such that formula_8 and formula_9. Define the informational content of a single outcome formula_10 to be formula_11 (e.g., Shannon). Observing an outcome at the tails of the distribution (a rare event) provides much more information than observing another, more probable, outcome. The entropy is the expected information content of an outcome of the random variable \"X\" whose probability distribution is \"P\":\nformula_12\n\nHere formula_13 if formula_14, and formula_15 is the expectation operator.\n\nConsider the problem of modeling and inferring the unobserved probability distribution of some \"K\"-dimensional discrete random variable given just the mean (expected value) of that variable. We also know that the probabilities are nonnegative and normalized (i.e., sum up to exactly 1). For all \"K\" > 2 the problem is underdetermined. Within the info-metrics framework, the solution is to maximize the entropy of the random variable subject to the two constraints: mean and normalization. This yields the usual maximum entropy solution. The solutions to that problem can be extended and generalized in several ways. First, one can use another entropy instead of Shannon’s entropy. Second, the same approach can be used for continuous random variables, for all types of conditional models (e.g., regression, inequality and nonlinear models), and for many constraints. Third, priors can be incorporated within that framework. Fourth, the same framework can be extended to accommodate greater uncertainty: uncertainty about the observed values and/or uncertainty about the model itself. Last, the same basic framework can be used to develop new models/theories, validate these models using all available information, and test statistical hypotheses about the model.\n\n\"Inference based on information resulting from repeated independent experiments.\"\n\nThe following example is attributed to Boltzmann and was further popularized by Jaynes. Consider a six-sided , where tossing the is the event and the distinct outcomes are the numbers 1 through 6 on the upper face of the . The experiment is the independent repetitions of tossing the same .\nSuppose you only observe the empirical mean value, y, of N tosses of a six-sided . Given that information, you want to infer the probabilities that a specific value of the face will show up in the next toss of the . You also know that the sum of the probabilities must be 1. Maximizing the entropy (and using log base 2) subject to these two constraints (mean and normalization) yields the most uninformed solution.\nformula_16\n\nfor formula_17 and formula_18 . The solution is\n\nwhere formula_20 is the inferred probability of event formula_21, formula_22 is the inferred Lagrange multipliers associated with the mean constraint, and formula_23 is the partition (normalization) function. If it’s a fair with mean of 3.5 you would expect that all faces are equally likely and the probabilities are equal. This is what the maximum entropy solution gives. If the is unfair (or loaded) with a mean of 4, the resulting maximum entropy solution will be formula_24. For comparison, minimizing the least squares criterion formula_25 instead of maximizing the entropy yields formula_26.\n\n\"Rainfall prediction\": Using the expected daily rainfall (arithmetic mean), the maximum entropy framework can be used to infer and forecast the daily rainfall distribution.\n\n\"Portfolio management\": Suppose there is a portfolio manager who needs to allocate some assets or assign portfolio weights to different assets, while taking into account the investor’s constraints and preferences. Using these preferences and constraints, as well as the observed information, such as the market mean return, and covariances, of each asset over some time period, the entropy maximization framework can be used to find the optimal portfolio weights. In this case, the entropy of the portfolio represents its diversity. This framework can be modified to include other constraints such as minimal variance, maximal diversity etc. That model involves inequalities and can be further generalized to include short sales. More such examples and related code can be found on \n\nAn extensive list of work related to info-metrics can be found here: http://info-metrics.org/bibliography.html\n\n\n\n\nMarco Frittelli. \"The minimal entropy martingale measure and the valuation problem in incomplete markets\". \"Mathematical finance\", 10(1):39–52, 2000.\nAmos Golan and Volker Dose. \"A generalized information theoretical approach to tomographic reconstruction\". \"Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General\", 34(7):1271, 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "4116488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4116488", "title": "Initial algebra", "text": "Initial algebra\n\nIn mathematics, an initial algebra is an initial object in the category of formula_1-algebras for a given endofunctor formula_1. This initiality provides a general framework for induction and recursion. \n\nFor instance, consider the endofunctor formula_3 on the category of sets, where formula_4 is the one-point (singleton) set, the terminal object in the category. An algebra for this endofunctor is a set formula_5 (called the \"carrier\" of the algebra) together with a point formula_6 and a function formula_7. The set of natural numbers is the carrier of the initial such algebra: the point is zero and the function is the successor map. \n\nFor a second example, consider the endofunctor formula_8 on the category of sets, where formula_9 is the set of natural numbers. An algebra for this endofunctor is a set formula_10 together with a point formula_6 and a function formula_12. The set of finite lists of natural numbers is the initial such algebra. The point is the empty list, and the function is cons, taking a number and a finite list, and returning a new finite list with the number at the head.\n\nIn categories with binary coproducts, the definitions just given are equivalent to the usual definitions of a natural number object and a list object, respectively.\n\nDually, a final coalgebra is a terminal object in the category of formula_1-coalgebras. The finality provides a general framework for coinduction and corecursion.\n\nFor example, using the same functor formula_3 as before, a coalgebra is a set formula_5 together with a truth-valued test function formula_16 and a partial function formula_17 whose domain is formed by those formula_18 for which formula_19. The set formula_20 consisting of the natural numbers extended with a new element formula_21 is the carrier of the final coalgebra in the category, where formula_22 is the test for zero: formula_23 and formula_24, and formula_25 is the predecessor function (the inverse of the successor function) on the positive naturals, but acts like the identity on the new element formula_21: formula_27, formula_28. This set formula_20 that is the carrier of the final coalgebra of formula_3 is known as the set of conatural numbers.\n\nFor a second example, consider the same functor formula_31 as before. In this case the carrier of the final coalgebra consists of all lists of natural numbers, finite as well as infinite. The operations are a test function testing whether a list is empty, and a deconstruction function defined on nonempty lists returning a pair consisting of the head and the tail of the input list.\n\n\nConsider the endofunctor formula_32 sending formula_5 to formula_34. Define\nand\nThen the set formula_9 of natural numbers together with the function formula_38 is an initial formula_1-algebra. The initiality (the universal property for this case) is not hard to establish; the unique homomorphism to an arbitrary formula_1-algebra formula_41, for formula_42 an element of formula_43 and formula_44 a function on formula_43, is the function sending the natural number formula_46 to formula_47, that is, formula_48, the formula_46-fold application of formula_25 to formula_51.\n\nVarious finite data structures used in programming, such as lists and trees, can be obtained as initial algebras of specific endofunctors.\nWhile there may be several initial algebras for a given endofunctor, they are unique up to isomorphism, which informally means that the \"observable\" properties of a data structure can be adequately captured by defining it as an initial algebra.\n\nTo obtain the type formula_52 of lists whose elements are members of set formula_43, consider that the list-forming operations are:\n\n\nCombined into one function, they give:\n\n\nwhich makes this an formula_1-algebra for the endofunctor formula_1 sending formula_5 to formula_60. It is, in fact, \"the\" initial formula_1-algebra. Initiality is established by the function known as \"foldr\" in functional programming languages such as Haskell and ML.\n\nLikewise, binary trees with elements at the leaves can be obtained as the initial algebra\n\n\nTypes obtained this way are known as algebraic data types.\n\nTypes defined by using least fixed point construct with functor formula_1 can be regarded as an initial formula_1-algebra, provided that parametricity holds for the type.\n\nIn a dual way, similar relationship exists between notions of greatest fixed point and terminal F-coalgebra, with applications to coinductive types. These can be used for allowing potentially infinite objects while maintaining strong normalization property. In the strongly normalizing Charity programming language (i.e. each program terminates), coinductive data types can be used achieving surprising results, e.g. defining lookup constructs to implement such “strong” functions like the Ackermann function.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7160538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7160538", "title": "Interdiscourse", "text": "Interdiscourse\n\nInterdiscourse is the implicit or explicit relations that a discourse has to other discourses. Interdiscursivity is the aspect of a discourse that relates it to other discourses. Norman Fairclough prefers the concept \"orders of discourse\". Interdiscursivity is often mostly an analytic concept, e.g. in Foucault and Fairclough. Interdiscursivity has close affinity to recontextualisation because interdiscourse often implies that elements are imported from another discourse.\n\nThe meaning of interdiscourse varies. It denotes at least three levels:\n\n\nAn example (where 1. corresponds to a., etc.) illustrates the three levels: A minister of environment speaks in the parliament about a proposal.\n\n\nThe example illustrates that 2. and 3. are specific cases of 1, in the sense a-c all relate to another discourse. To avoid this, level 1. might be defined as relations to other discourses \"within\" the same discursive formation and type of discourse. Consequently, the definition of the levels depends on the definition of discursive formation and types of discourse, and the three levels may collapse to the extent that these concepts are not conceived. In short, the stratification of interdiscourse depends on the stratification of discourse.\n\nLevel 2. and 3. may be conceived as particularly salient. This is explained in Marc Angenot and Bruce by reference to Bakhtin: In Bakhtin's dialogism, the utterance is the natural meaningful and finalised unit of speech, which others are supposed to respond to, that is, others \"interpret the utterance by situating it in a discursive context\". But, an utterance may be interpreted (contextualised) in various ways, and interdiscourse and interdiscursivity denote how certain such interpretations (and relations to other discourses) are socially more privileged than others. Since interdiscourse privileges certain interpretations, it has a close affinity to the concepts of ideology, hegemony and power (sociology). For Bakhtin/Voloshinov, signs are a reality that refracts another reality, that is, signs are ideological. Therefore, the embedding of a discourse in an interdiscourse is an ideological interpretation of the discourse.\n\nIn Michel Foucault, interdiscursivity is not bound to ideology, but is a more open concept for analysing relations between discursive formations, that is, mapping their interdiscursive configuration. Such analyses constitute a part of his discourse analysis.\n\nThe cogent and restrictive character of the interdiscourse is reflected in the concept of the \"primacy of interdiscourse\". The interdiscourse is the sayable, the opposite of what cannot be enunciated (l'inénoncable). But, the interdiscourse has also primacy in the sense that it \"defines the relations between discursive entities (or formations) that are constitutive of the discursive entities\". What is acceptable discourse, is in many respects a matter of interdiscursivity at level 2 and 3, because the interdiscursive import and export relations constitute a worksharing between the discursive entities, and this frames what is acceptable discourse within each discursive entity: Generally, a discourse has little authority over what other discourses are assumed to speak of and will therefore accept imported form and content from the other discourses. On the other hand, when a discourse exports content to other discourses, there are expectations as to the exported form and content. Thus, the interdiscursive system shapes the discourses.\n\n"}
{"id": "31813104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31813104", "title": "Internal category", "text": "Internal category\n\nIn mathematics, more specifically in category theory - internal categories are a generalisation of the notion of small category, and are defined with respect to a fixed ambient category. If the ambient category is taken to be the category of sets then one recovers the theory of small categories. In general, internal categories consist of a pair of objects in the ambient category - thought of as the 'object of objects' and 'object of morphisms', together with a collection of morphisms in the ambient category satisfying certain identities. Group objects, are common examples of internal categories.\n\nThere are notions of internal functors and natural transformations which make the collection of internal categories in a fixed category into a 2-category.\n\nLet formula_1 be a category with pullbacks. An internal category in formula_2 consists of the following data: two formula_2-objects formula_4 named \"object of objects\" and \"object of morphisms\" respectively and four formula_2-arrows formula_6 subject to coherence conditions expressing the axioms of category theory. See \n\n"}
{"id": "34498257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34498257", "title": "International Civil Rights Walk of Fame", "text": "International Civil Rights Walk of Fame\n\nThe International Civil Rights Walk of Fame, which honors some of the activists involved in the Civil Rights Movement and others involved in civil rights activities, was created in 2004 and is located at the Martin Luther King, Jr. National Historic Site in Atlanta. It consists of a promenade that showcases the footstep impressions of those honored, marked in granite and bronze. According to the National Park Service, which runs the historic site, the Walk of Fame was created \"to give recognition to those courageous soldiers of justice who sacrificed and struggled to make equality a reality for all.\" Another motivation was to enhance the historic value of the area, enrich its cultural heritage, and make the site a better tourist attraction.\n\nThe Walk of Fame is the brainchild of Xernona Clayton, founder and executive producer of the Trumpet Awards. She is a civil rights figure in her own right. Clayton said, \"This is a lasting memorial to those whose contributions were testaments to the fact that human progress is neither automatic nor inevitable. This historic site will serve as a symbol of pride and a beacon of hope for all future generations. We are looking forward to building a monument to the civil struggle that depicts every step taken toward the goal of justice and the tireless exertions and passionate concern of these dedicated individuals.\"\n\nBeginning in 2012, inductions will be held every two years.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31491156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31491156", "title": "International Violence Against Women Act", "text": "International Violence Against Women Act\n\nThe International Violence Against Women Act of 2015 (I-VAWA) is proposed legislation to address violence against women through United States foreign policy. The legislation was introduced in the 114th United States Congress in March, 2015. Similar legislation was introduced in the 110th and 111th United States Congress but was not passed into law.\n\nAt least 1 in 3 women around the world are subject to sexual, physical or other abuse during their life, per estimates by the United Nations Development Fund for Women. Not only does violence against women prevent mothers from raising healthy children, it also affects the economic progress and stability within the country in which they live.\n\nThe International Violence Against Women Act of 2015 (I-VAWA) (S.713, HR. 1340) was introduced to ensure that addressing violence against women is included in the nation's foreign policy, with best practices for preventing violence, protecting victims and prosecuting offenders.\n\nThe legislation was the result of efforts by:\n\nExperts in related fields from 40 international and 150 U.S. groups provided input for the legislation.\n\nThe House of Representatives Bill (HR. 1340) was brought before the 114th Congress, sponsored by Representative Janice Schakowsky, Illinois's 9th congressional district. The Senate Bill (S.713), was introduced by Senator Barbara Boxer of California.\n\nI-VAWA has been criticized on the grounds that it would discriminate against male victims and impose Western values upon other societies. According to Wendy McElroy, a research fellow at The Independent Institute, the Act \"constitutes a 5-year redirection of foreign aid funds in order to insert politically-correct feminism into the structure of other nations\" and \"revictimizes every male victim by denying his existence.\"\n\nMany organizations support the I-VAWA Act, some of which are:\n\n"}
{"id": "5493064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5493064", "title": "Kalpa (aeon)", "text": "Kalpa (aeon)\n\nKalpa ( \"kalpa\") is a Sanskrit word meaning a relatively long period of time (by human calculation) in Hindu and Buddhist cosmology. The concept is first mentioned in the \"Mahabharata\".\nRomila Thapar holds that \"the kalpa is first referred to in the inscriptions of Asoka\". In the Pali language of early Buddhism, the word takes the form \"kappa\", and is mentioned in the assumed oldest scripture of Buddhism, the Sutta Nipata. This speaks of \"Kappâtita: one who has gone beyond time, an Arahant\". This part of the Buddhist manuscripts dates back to the middle part of the last millennium BCE.\n\nGenerally speaking, a kalpa is the period of time between the creation and recreation of a world or universe. The definition of a kalpa equaling 4.32 billion years is found in the \"Puranas\"—specifically \"Vishnu Purana\" and \"Bhagavata Purana\".\n\nAccording to \"Visuddhimagga\", there are several explanations for types of kalpas and their duration. In the first explanation, there are four types:\n\n\nIn another simple explanation, there are four different lengths of kalpas. A regular kalpa is approximately 16 million years long (16,798,000 years), and a \"small\" kalpa is 1000 regular kalpas, or about 16 billion years. Further, a \"medium\" kalpa is roughly 320 billion years, the equivalent of 20 small kalpas. A \"great\" kalpa is 4 medium kalpas, or around 1.28 trillion years.\n\nBuddha had not spoken about the exact length of the \"maha-kalpa\" in number of years. However, he had given several astounding analogies to understand it.\n\n\nIn one situation, some monks wanted to know how many kalpas had died so far. The Buddha gave the analogy:\n\n\nIn Hinduism (cf. Hindu Time Cycles), it is equal to 4.32 billion years, a \"day of Brahma\" or one thousand \"mahayugas\", measuring the duration of the world. Each kalpa is divided into 14 \"manvantara\" periods, each lasting 71 yuga cycles (306,720,000 years). Preceding the first and following each manvantara period is a juncture (sandhya) the length of a Satya-yuga (1,728,000) years. Two kalpas constitute a day and night of Brahma. A \"month of Brahma\" is supposed to contain thirty such days (including nights), or 259.2 billion years. According to the Mahabharata, 12 months of Brahma (=360 days) constitute his year, and 100 such years the life cycle of the universe. Fifty years of Brahma are supposed to have elapsed, and we are now in the \"shvetavaraha kalpa\" of the fifty-first; at the end of a kalpa the world is annihilated.\n\n\"The duration of the material universe is limited. It is manifested in cycles of kalpas. A kalpa is a day of Brahmā, and one day of Brahmā consists of a thousand cycles of four yugas, or ages: Satya Yuga, Treta Yuga, Dvapara Yuga and Kali Yuga. The cycle of Satya is characterized by virtue, wisdom and religion, there being practically no ignorance and vice, and the yuga lasts 1,728,000 years. In the Tretā-yuga vice is introduced, and this yuga lasts 1,296,000 years. In the Dvāpara-yuga there is an even greater decline in virtue and religion, vice increasing, and this yuga lasts 864,000 years. And finally in Kali-yuga (the yuga we have now been experiencing over the past 5,000 years) there is an abundance of strife, ignorance, irreligion and vice, true virtue being practically nonexistent, and this yuga lasts 432,000 years. In Kali-yuga vice increases to such a point that at the termination of the yuga the Supreme Lord Himself appears as the Kalki avatāra, vanquishes the demons, saves His devotees, and commences another Satya-yuga. Then the process is set rolling again. These four yugas, rotating a thousand times, comprise one day of Brahmā, and the same number comprise one night. Brahmā lives one hundred of such \"years\" and then dies. These \"hundred years\" total 311 trillion 40 billion (311,040,000,000,000) earth years. By these calculations the life of Brahmā seems fantastic and interminable, but from the viewpoint of eternity it is as brief as a lightning flash. In the Causal Ocean there are innumerable Brahmās rising and disappearing like bubbles in the Atlantic. Brahmā and his creation are all part of the material universe, and therefore they are in constant flux\" (Bhagavad-gītā As It Is 8.17).\nThe previous kalpa was the \"vyuhakalpa\" (Glorious aeon), the present kalpa is called the \"bhadrakalpa\" (Auspicious aeon), and the next kalpa will be the \"naksatrakalpa\" (Constellation aeon).\n\nThe Matsya Purana (290.3-12) lists the names of 30 kalpas, as follows: \n\nThe Vayu Purana in chapter 21 gives yet another list of 28 kalpas. It also lists five more kalpas in the next chapter.\n\nThe concept of kalpas was an inspiration for the kalpas of the universe of the \"Elder Scrolls\" series of action role-playing open world fantasy video games. In \"The Elder Scrolls\", kalpas represent each life cycle of the mortal realm of Mundus.\n\nIn \"City at the End of Time\", a science fiction novel by Greg Bear, Kalpa is a fortress city built on Earth by descendants of humans in the last period of the Universe to protect themselves from the Chaos that is devouring it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1841990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1841990", "title": "Kinder, Küche, Kirche", "text": "Kinder, Küche, Kirche\n\nKinder, Küche, Kirche (), or the 3 Ks, is a German slogan translated as “children, kitchen, church”. It now has a mostly derogatory connotation, describing what is seen as an antiquated female role model in contemporary Western society. The phrase is vaguely equivalent to the American \"barefoot and pregnant\" or the Victorian \"A woman's place is in the home\".\n\nThe origins of the phrase are normally attributed either to the last German Emperor Wilhelm II, or to his first wife, Empress Augusta Victoria. She is likely to have adopted it from one of several similar German \"sayings by number\". The most suggestive of these is listed in the second volume of \"German proverbs Glossary: A treasure house of the German people\" published in 1870 by Karl Friedrich Wilhelm Wander: \"Vier K gehören zu einem frommen Weib, nemlich, dass sie Achtung gebe auff die Kirche, Kammer, Kuche, Kinder.\" - \"Four K's are requisite of a pious woman, namely, that she keeps regard for church, chamber, kitchen, children.\" Wander refers for the origins of this saying to a 16th-century commentary on Sirach by Johannes Mathesius. He also lists another similar phrase: \"Eine gute Hausfrau hat fünf K zu besorgen: Kammer, Kinder, Küche, Keller, Kleider.\" - \"A good housewife has to take care of five K: chamber, kids, kitchen, cellar, clothes,\" which appeared first in the 1810 collection of the German proverbs \"Die weisheit auf der gasse: oder Sinn und geist deutscher sprichwörter\" - \"The wisdom of the streets; or, meaning and spirit of German proverbs\" by Johann Michael Sailer. In 1844 \"The newspaper for the German Nobility\" published this latter saying in its traditional last page \"feature\" short statements.\n\nThe phrase started to appear in its current form in writing in the early 1890s. \"After Germany, where women apparently take no interest in public affairs, and seem to obey to the letter the young emperor's injunction \"Let women devote themselves to the three K's, -- \"die Küche, die Kirche, die Kinder\"\" (kitchen, church, and children), the active interest and influence of English women on all great questions were refreshing.\" wrote Marie C. Remick in \"A Woman's Travel-notes on England\" in 1892. The phrase then was used multiple times throughout the 1890s in liberal writing and speeches.\n\nIn August 1899 the influential British liberal \"Westminster Gazette\" elaborated on the story, mentioning, as well, the 4th \"K\". A story titled \"The American Lady and the Kaiser. The Empress's four K's\" describes an audience given by the Kaiser to two American suffragettes. After hearing them out, the Kaiser replies: \"I agree with my wife. And do you know what she says? She says that women have no business interfering with anything outside the four K's. The four K's are – Kinder, Küche, Kirche, and Kleider: Children, Kitchen, Church, and Clothing\".\n\n\"Kaiser's 4 K's\" is encountered again in Charlotte Perkins Gilman's 1911 book \"The man-made world\". The \"3 K's\" variation has remained by far more popular and well known.\n\nWhen Hitler came to power in 1933, he introduced a Law for the Encouragement of Marriage, which entitled newly married couples to a loan of 1000 marks (around 9 months' average wages at that time). On their first child, they could keep 250 marks. On their second, they could keep another 250. They reclaimed all of the loan by their fourth child.\n\nIn a September 1934 speech to the National Socialist Women's Organization, Adolf Hitler argued that for the German woman her \"world is her husband, her family, her children, and her home\", a policy which was reinforced by the stress on \"Kinder\" and \"Küche\" in propaganda, and the bestowing of the Cross of Honor of the German Mother on women bearing four or more babies.\n\nDuring this period, women were discriminated against in employment and forced out or bribed with numerous social benefits. Medicine, the law and civil service were occupations reserved for men alone.\n\nIn one of his essays, T. S. Eliot reproduces and then comments upon a column in the \"Evening Standard\" of May 10, 1939 headed Back to the Kitchen' Creed Denounced\":\n\nDuring World War II in Germany, women eventually were put back in the factories because of the growing losses in the armed forces and the desperate lack of equipment on the front lines.\n\nThe phrase continued to be used in feminist and anti-feminist writing in the English-speaking world in the 1950s and 1960s. So, notably, the first version of the classic feminist paper by Naomi Weisstein \"Psychology Constructs the Female\" was titled \"Kinder, Küche, Kirche as Scientific Law: Psychology Constructs the Female\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47152606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47152606", "title": "Mankari", "text": "Mankari\n\nMankari (Mānkari or Maankari) is a hereditary title used by Maratha nobles who held land grants, and cash allowances. They held an official position at the Darbar (court) and were entitled to certain ceremonial honours and presents rendered at courts, councils, weddings, festivals, village assemblies, etc. They were worthy of distinction and the honour bestowed upon them was the result of the military, bureaucratic or fiscal importance of them or their distinguished ancestors.\n\nThe term was widely used by Maratha nobility, who held important positions in various princely states of the Maratha Empire.\n"}
{"id": "516931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=516931", "title": "Map (mathematics)", "text": "Map (mathematics)\n\nIn mathematics, the term mapping, sometimes shortened to map, refers to either a function, often with some sort of special structure, or a morphism in category theory, which generalizes the idea of a function. There are also a few, less common uses in logic and graph theory.\n\nIn many branches of mathematics, the term map is used to mean a function, sometimes with a specific property of particular importance to that branch. For instance, a \"map\" is a \"continuous function\" in topology, a \"linear transformation\" in linear algebra, etc.\n\nSome authors, such as Serge Lang, use \"function\" only to refer to maps in which the codomain is a set of numbers (i.e. a subset of the fields R or C) and the term \"mapping\" for more general functions.\n\nSets of maps of special kinds are the subjects of many important theories: see for instance Lie group, mapping class group, permutation group.\n\nIn the theory of dynamical systems, a map denotes an evolution function used to create discrete dynamical systems. See also Poincaré map.\n\nA \"partial map\" is a \"partial function\", and a \"total map\" is a \"total function\". Related terms like \"domain\", \"codomain\", \"injective\", \"continuous\", etc. can be applied equally to maps and functions, with the same meaning. All these usages can be applied to \"maps\" as general functions or as functions with special properties.\n\nIn category theory, \"map\" is often used as a synonym for morphism or arrow, thus for something more general than a function. For example, morphisms formula_1, in a concrete category, in other words morphisms that can be viewed as functions, carry with them the information of both its domain (the source formula_2 of the morphism), but also its co-domain (the target formula_3). In the widely used definition of function formula_4, this is a subset of formula_5 consisting of all the pairs formula_6 for formula_7. In this sense, the function doesn't capture the information of which set formula_3 is used as the co-domain. Only the range formula_9 is determined by the function.\n\nIn formal logic, the term map is sometimes used for a \"functional predicate\", whereas a function is a model of such a predicate in set theory.\n\nIn graph theory, a map is a drawing of a graph on a surface without overlapping edges (an embedding). If the surface is a plane then a map is a planar graph, similar to a political map.\n\nIn the communities surrounding programming languages that treat functions as first-class citizens, a map often refers to the binary higher-order function that takes a function \"f\" and a list as arguments and returns , where .\n"}
{"id": "425474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425474", "title": "Mental substance", "text": "Mental substance\n\nMental substance is the idea held by dualists and idealists, that minds are made-up of non-physical substance. This substance is often referred to as consciousness.\n\nThis is opposed to the materialists, who hold that what we normally think of as mental substance is ultimately physical matter (i.e., brains).\n\nDescartes, who was most famous for the assertion \"I think therefore I am\", has had a lot of influence on the mind–body problem. He describes his theory of mental substance (which he calls res cogitans distinguishing it from the \"res extensa\") in the \"Second Meditation\" (II.8) and in \"Principia Philosophiae\" (2.002).\n\nHe used a more precise definition of the word \"substance\" than is currently popular: that a substance is something which can exist without the existence of any other substance. For many philosophers, this word or the phrase \"mental substance\" has a special meaning.\n\nGottfried Leibniz, belonging to the generation immediately after Descartes, held the position that the mental world was built up by monads, mental objects that are not part of the physical world (see \"Monadology\").\n\n"}
{"id": "677516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=677516", "title": "Negative campaigning", "text": "Negative campaigning\n\nNegative campaigning or mudslinging is the process of deliberate spreading negative information about someone or something to worsen the public image of the described.\n\nDeliberate spreading of such information can be motivated either by honest desire of the campaigner to warn others against real dangers or deficiencies of the described, or by the campaigner's dishonest ideas on methods of winning in political, business or other spheres of competition against an honest rival.\n\nThe public image of an entity can be defined as reputation, esteem, respect, acceptance of the entity's appearance, values and behaviour by the general public of a given territory and/or a social group, possibly within time limits. As target groups of public and their values differ, so negativity or positivity of a public image is relative: e.g. while in most societies having an honest source of income is a positive value and stealing is discouraged, in the world of professional thieves honest work is frowned upon and stealing is encouraged. In polygamous societies monogamy is not viewed in the way it is valued in monogamous societies. Values of a society also change with time: e.g. homosexuality in Western culture was considered immoral and was criminally prosecuted until the sexual revolution of the second half of the 20 century.\nThus negative campaigning to be successful has to take into account current values of the group it addresses. The degree of strictness in practicing the group's values as opposed to its tolerance for violating the norms has also to be taken into consideration: e.g. while in the Old Testament and other traditional religious societies adultery and prostitution were outlawed and supposed to be punished by death, modern Western societies show much greater tolerance to these.\n\nIn United States politics, negative campaigning has been called \"as American as Mississippi mud\" and \"as American as apple pie\". Some research suggests negative campaigning is the norm in all political venues, mitigated only by the dynamics of a particular contest.\n\nThere are a number of techniques used in negative campaigning. Among the most effective is running advertisements attacking an opponent's personality, record, or opinion. There are two main types of ads used in negative campaigning: attack and contrast.\n\nAttack ads focus exclusively on the negative aspects of the opponent. There is no positive content in an attack ad, whether it is about the candidate or the opponent. Attack ads usually identify the risks associated with the opponent, often exploiting people’s fears to manipulate and lower the impression voters have of the opponent. Because attack ads have no positive content, they have the potential to be more influential than contrast ads in shaping voters’ views of the sponsoring candidate’s opponent.\n\nUnlike attack ads, contrast ads contain information about both the candidate and the opponent. The information about the candidate is positive, while the information about the opponent is negative. Contrast ads compare and contrast the candidate with the opponent, juxtaposing the positive information about the candidate with the negative information of the opponent. Because contrast ads must contain positive information, contrast ads are seen as less damaging to the political process than attack ads.\n\nOne of the most famous such ads was \"Daisy Girl\" by the campaign of Lyndon B. Johnson that successfully portrayed Republican Barry Goldwater as threatening nuclear war. Common negative campaign techniques include painting an opponent as soft on criminals, dishonest, corrupt, or a danger to the nation. One common negative campaigning tactic is attacking the other side for running a negative campaign.\n\nDirty tricks are also common in negative political campaigns. These generally involve secretly leaking damaging information to the media. This isolates a candidate from backlash and also does not cost any money. The material must be substantive enough to attract media interest, however, and if the truth is discovered it could severely damage a campaign. Other dirty tricks include trying to feed an opponent's team false information hoping they will use it and embarrass themselves.\n\nOften a campaign will use outside organizations, such as lobby groups, to launch attacks. These can be claimed to be coming from a neutral source and if the allegations turn out not to be true the attacking candidate will not be damaged if the links cannot be proven. Negative campaigning can be conducted by proxy. For instance, highly partisan ads were placed in the 2004 U.S. presidential election by allegedly independent bodies like MoveOn.org and Swift Boat Veterans for Truth.\n\nPush polls are attacks disguised as telephone polls. They might ask a question like \"How would you react if Candidate A was revealed to beat his wife?\", giving the impression that Candidate A might beat his wife. Members of the media and of the opposing party are deliberately not called making these tactics all but invisible and unprovable.\n\nG. Gordon Liddy played a major role in developing these tactics during the Nixon campaign playing an important advisory of rules that led to the campaign of 1972. James Carville, campaign manager of Bill Clinton's 1992 election, is also a major proponent of negative tactics. Lee Atwater, best known for being an advisor to presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush, also pioneered many negative campaign techniques seen in political campaigns today.\n\nSponsors of overt negative campaigns often cite reasons to support mass communication of negative ideas. The Office of National Drug Control Policy uses negative campaigns to steer the public away from health risks. Similar negative campaigns have been used to rebut mass marketing by tobacco companies, or to discourage drunk driving. Those who conduct negative political campaigns sometimes say the public needs to know about the person he or she is voting for, even if it is bad. In other words, if a candidate’s opponent is a crook or a bad person, then he or she should be able to tell the public about it.\n\nMartin Wattenberg and Craig Brians, of the University of California, Irvine, considered in their study whether negative campaigning mobilizes or alienates voters. They concluded that data used by Stephen Ansolabehere in a 1994 American Political Science Review article to advance the hypothesis that negative campaigning demobilizes voters was flawed.\n\nA subsequent study done by Ansolabehere and Shanto Iyengar in 1995 corrected some of the previous study's flaws. This study concluded that negative advertising suppressed voter turnout, particularly for Independent voters. They speculated that campaigns tend to go negative only if the Independent vote is leaning toward the opponent. In doing so, they insure that the swing voters stay home, leaving the election up to base voters. They also found that negative ads have a greater impact on Democrats than on Republicans. According to them, base Republicans will vote no matter what (and will vote only for a Republican), but Democrats can be influenced to either stay home and not vote at all or to switch sides and vote for a Republican. This, combined with the effect negativity has on Independents, led them to conclude that Republicans benefit more from going negative than Democrats.\n\nOther researchers have found different, more positive outcomes from negative campaigns. Rick Farmer, PhD, an assistant professor of political science at the University of Akron found that negative ads are more memorable than positive ads when they reinforce a preexisting belief and are relevant to the central issues of a marketing campaign. Researchers at the University of Georgia found the impact of negative ads increases over time, while positive ads used to counteract negative ads lack the power of negative ads . Research also suggests negative campaigning introduces controversy and raises public awareness through additional news coverage .\n\nMost recently, Kyle Mattes and David P. Redlawsk in \"The Positive Case for Negative Campaigning\" show through surveys and experiments that negative campaigning provides informational benefits for voters. Without negativity, voters would not have full information about all of their choices, since no candidate will say anything bad about herself. They argue that candidates have to point out the flaws in their opponents for voters to be fully informed.\n\nSome strategists say that an effect of negative campaigning is that while it motivates the base of support it can alienate centrist and undecided voters from the political process, reducing voter turnout and radicalizing politics. \nIn a study done by Gina Garramone about how negative advertising affects the political process, it was found that a consequence of negative campaigning is greater image discrimination of the candidates and greater attitude polarization. While positive ads also contributed to the image discrimination and attitude polarization, Garramone found that negative campaigning played a more influential role in the discrimination and polarization than positive campaigning.\n\nNegative ads can produce a backlash. A disastrous ad was run by the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada in the 1993 Canadian federal election, apparently emphasizing Liberal Party of Canada leader Jean Chrétien's Bell's Palsy partial facial paralysis in a number of unflattering photos, with the subtext of criticizing his platforms. Chrétien took maximum advantage of the opportunity to gain the public's sympathy as a man who struggled with a physical disability and his party's subsequent overwhelming victory in the election helped reduce the governing Conservatives to two seats.\n\nA similar backlash happened to the Liberal Party in the 2006 federal election for running an attack ad that suggested that Conservative leader Stephen Harper would use Canadian soldiers to patrol Canadian cities, and impose some kind of martial law. The ad was only available from the Liberal Party's web site for a few hours prior to the release of the attack ads on television; nevertheless, it was picked up by the media and widely criticized for its absurdity, in particular the sentence \"we're not making this up; we're not allowed to make this stuff up\". Liberal MP Keith Martin expressed his disapproval of \"whoever the idiot who approved that ad was,\" shortly before Liberal leader Paul Martin (no relation) stated that he had personally approved them. The effect of the ads was to diminish the credibility of the party's other attack ads. It offended many Canadians, particularly those in the military, some of whom were fighting in Afghanistan at the time. (See Canadian federal election, 2006)\n\nMore recently, in the 2008 US Senate race in North Carolina, Republican incumbent Elizabeth Dole attempted an attack ad on Democratic challenger Kay Hagan, who had taken a small lead in polls, by tying her to atheists. Dole's campaign released an ad questioning Hagan's religion and it included a voice saying \"There is no God!\" over a picture of Kay Hagan's face. The voice was not Hagan's but it is believed the ad implied that it was. Initially, it was thought the ad would work as religion has historically been a very important issue to voters in the American south, but the ad produced a backlash across the state and Hagan responded forcefully with an ad saying that she was a Sunday school teacher and was a religious person. Hagan also claimed Dole was trying to change the subject from the economy (the ad appeared around the same time as the 2008 financial crisis). Hagan's lead in polls doubled and she won the race by a nine-point margin.\n\nBecause of the possible harm that can come from being seen as a negative campaigner, candidates often pledge to refrain from negative attacks. This pledge is usually abandoned when an opponent is perceived to be \"going negative,\" with the first retaliatory attack being, ironically, an accusation that the opponent is a negative campaigner.\n\nWhile some research has found advantages and other has found disadvantages, some studies find no difference between negative and positive approaches .\n\nResearch published in the Journal of Advertising found that negative political advertising makes the body want to turn away physically, but the mind remembers negative messages. The findings are based on research conducted by James Angelini, professor of communication at the University of Delaware, in collaboration with Samuel Bradley, assistant professor of advertising at Texas Tech University, and Sungkyoung Lee of Indiana University, which used ads that aired during the 2000 presidential election. During the study, the researchers placed electrodes under the eyes of willing participants and showed them a series of 30-second ads from both the George W. Bush and Al Gore campaigns. The electrodes picked up on the \"startle response,\" the automatic eye movement typically seen in response to snakes, spiders and other threats. Compared to positive or neutral messages, negative advertising prompted greater reflex reactions and a desire to move away.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3135066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3135066", "title": "P-chart", "text": "P-chart\n\nIn statistical quality control, the p-chart is a type of control chart used to monitor the proportion of nonconforming units in a sample, where the sample proportion nonconforming is defined as the ratio of the number of nonconforming units to the sample size, n.\n\nThe p-chart only accommodates \"pass\"/\"fail\"-type inspection as determined by one or more go-no go gauges or tests, effectively applying the specifications to the data \"before\" they are plotted on the chart. Other types of control charts display the magnitude of the quality characteristic under study, making troubleshooting possible directly from those charts.\n\nThe binomial distribution is the basis for the p-chart and requires the following assumptions:\nThe control limits for this chart type are formula_1 where formula_4 is the estimate of the long-term process mean established during control-chart setup. Naturally, if the lower control limit is less than or equal to zero, process observations only need be plotted against the upper control limit. Note that observations of proportion nonconforming below a positive lower control limit are cause for concern as they are more frequently evidence of improperly calibrated test and inspection equipment or inadequately trained inspectors than of sustained quality improvement.\n\nSome organizations may elect to provide a standard value for p, effectively making it a target value for the proportion nonconforming. This may be useful when simple process adjustments can consistently move the process mean, but in general, this makes it more challenging to judge whether a process is fully out of control or merely off-target (but otherwise in control).\n\nThere are two circumstances that merit special attention:\n\nSampling requires some careful consideration. If the organization elects to use 100% inspection on a process, the production rate determines an appropriate sampling rate which in turn determines the sample size. If the organization elects to only inspect a fraction of units produced, the sample size should be chosen large enough so that the chance of finding at least one nonconforming unit in a sample is high—otherwise the false alarm rate is too high. One technique is to fix sample size so that there is a 50% chance of detecting a process shift of a given amount (for example, from 1% defective to 5% defective). If δ is the size of the shift to detect, then the sample size should be set to formula_5. Another technique is to choose the sample size large enough so that the p-chart has a positive lower control limit or formula_6.\n\nIn the case of 100% inspection, variation in the production rate (e.g., due to maintenance or shift changes) conspires to produce different sample sizes for each observation plotted on the p-chart. There are three ways to deal with this:\n\nSome practitioners have pointed out that the p-chart is sensitive to the underlying assumptions, using control limits derived from the binomial distribution rather than from the observed sample variance. Due to this sensitivity to the underlying assumptions, p-charts are often implemented incorrectly, with control limits that are either too wide or too narrow, leading to incorrect decisions regarding process stability. A p-chart is a form of the Individuals chart (also referred to as \"XmR\" or \"ImR\"), and these practitioners recommend the individuals chart as a more robust alternative for count-based data.\n\n"}
{"id": "224515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224515", "title": "Performance", "text": "Performance\n\nPerformance is completion of a task with application of knowledge, skills and abilities. \n\nIn work place, performance or job performance means good ranking with the hypothesized conception of requirements of a role. There are two types of job performances: contextual and task. Task performance is related to cognitive ability while contextual performance is dependent upon personality. Task performance are behavioral roles that are recognized in job descriptions and by remuneration systems, they are directly related to organizational performance, whereas, contextual performance are value based and additional behavioral roles that are not recognized in job descriptions and covered by compensation; they are extra roles that are indirectly related to organizational performance. Citizenship performance like contextual performance means a set of individual activity/contribution (prosocial organizational behavior) that supports the organizational culture.\n\nIn the performing arts, a performance generally comprises an event in which a performer or group of performers present one or more works of art to an audience. In instrumental music (and in drama), performance is typically described as \"play\". Usually the performers participate in rehearsals beforehand. \n\nAn effective performance is determined by achievement skills and competency of the performer - level of skill and knowledge. Spencer and McClelland in 1994 defined competency as \"a combination of motives, traits, self-concepts, attitudes, cognitive behavior skills (content knowledge)\" that helps a performer to differentiate themselves superior from average performers. A performance may also describe the way in which an actor performs. In a solo capacity, it may also refer to a mime artist, comedian, conjurer, or other entertainer.\n\nWilliams and Krane found the following characteristics define an ideal performance state:\n\n\nOther related factors are motivation to achieve success or avoid failure, task relevant attention, positive self-talk and cognitive regulation to achieve automaticity. Performance is also dependent on adaptation of eight areas: Handling crisis, managing stress, creative problem solving, knowing necessary functional tools and skills, agile management of complex processes, interpersonal adaptability, cultural adaptability, and physical fitness. Performance is not always a result of practice, it is about honing the skill, even over practice itself can result in failure due to ego depletion. \n\nTheatrical performances, especially when the audience is limited to only a few observers, can lead to significant increases in the performer's heart rate above his or her baseline heart rate. This increase takes place in several stages relative to the performance itself, including anticipatory activation (one minute before the start of subject's speaking role), confrontation activation (during the subject's speaking role, at which point their heart rate peaks) and release period (one minute after the conclusion of the subject's speech). The same physiological reactions can be experienced in other mediums, such as instrumental performance. When experiments were conducted to determine whether there was a correlation between audience size and heart rate (an indicator of anxiety) of instrumental performers, the researcher's findings ran contrary to previous studies, showing a positive correlation rather than a negative one.\n\nHeart rate shares a strong, positive correlation with the self reported anxiety of performers. Other physiological responses to public performance include perspiration, secretion of the adrenal glands, and increased blood pressure.\n\n"}
{"id": "23922380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23922380", "title": "Prior review", "text": "Prior review\n\nPrior review occurs when executive persons read and review materials before they have been made available to the public. It is not to be confused with prior restraint.\n"}
{"id": "2949528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2949528", "title": "Pudgala", "text": "Pudgala\n\nIn Jainism, Pudgala (or \"\") is one of the six Dravyas, or aspects of reality that fabricate the world we live in. The six \"dravya\"s include the jiva and the fivefold divisions of ajiva (non-living) category: \"dharma\" (motion), \"adharma\" (rest), \"akasha\" (space), \"pudgala\" (matter) and \"kala\" (time). \"Pudgala\", like other \"dravya\"s except \"kala\" is called \"astikaya\" in the sense that it occupies space. \n\nPudgala is derived from the words 'pud', which is defined as Supplement (Addition /Fusion), and gala, which is defined as Disintegrate, or Division or Fission. Therefore, Pudgalas are best defined as all things that are continuously changing by the process of Supplementation or Disintegration, namely matter.\n\nThe individual unit of Pudgala is the material from which all is made called a Paramanu, which, by the process of supplementation, can combine to form what can be roughly said is an aggregate, called a Skandha. It possesses at all times four qualities, namely, a color (\"varna\"), a taste (\"rasa\"), a smell (\"gandha\"), and a certain kind of palpability (\"sparsha\", touch).\n\nIn Buddhism, \"Pudgala\" means the entity that reincarnates as an individual or person, i.e., the \"bundle of tendencies\" that keeps an individual reincarnating until they attain enlightenment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14758602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14758602", "title": "Rabin fairness", "text": "Rabin fairness\n\nRabin fairness is a fairness model invented by Matthew Rabin. It goes beyond the standard assumptions in modeling behavior, rationality and self-interest, to incorporate fairness. Rabin's fairness model incorporates findings from the fields of economics and psychology fields to provide an alternative utility model. Fairness is one type of social preference.\n\nPast utility models incorporated altruism or the fact that people may care not only about their own well-being, but also about the well-being of others. However, evidence indicates that pure altruism does not occur often, contrarily most altruistic behavior demonstrates three facts (as defined by Rabin) and these facts are proven by past events. Due to the existence of these three facts, Rabin created a utility function that incorporates fairness.:\n\nRabin formalized fairness using a two-person, modified game theory matrix with two decisions (a two by two matrix), where i is the person whose utility is being measured. Furthermore, within the game theory matrix payoffs for each person are allocated. The following formula was created by Rabin to model utility to include fairness:\n\nformula_1\n\nWhere:\n\nThe fairness model implies that if player j is treating player i badly, if formula_14, then player i wishes to treat player j badly as well by choosing an action, a, that is low or negative. However, if player j is treating player i kindly, formula_15, then player i will act kindly towards player j, as well (For more in depth examples see Rabin (1993)).\n\nRabin also used the fairness model as a utility function to determine social welfare. Rabin used a game theory \"Grabbing Game\" which posited that there are two people shopping, with two cans of soup left. The payoffs for each are given as follows, where player i's payoffs are on the left of each pair and player j's payoffs are on the right of each pair:\n\nIf both grab or both share, each player i and j get one can of soup. However, one grabs, and the other does not, then the person who grabbed gets both cans of soup. There is a Nash Equilibrium present of (grab, grab). Moreover, applying Rabin's fairness model (grab, grab) will always be a fairness equilibrium but for small values of x the cooperative choice (share, share) will Pareto dominate (grab, grab). The reasoning behind this is that if the two people both grab for and therefore fight over the cans, the angriness and bad tempers that arise are likely to outweigh the importance of receiving the cans. Therefore, while (Grab, Grab) and (Share, Share) are fairness equilibria when material payoffs are small, (Share, Share) will dominate (Grab, Grab) since people are affected by the kindness, which increases utility, or unkindness, which decreases utility, of others. This example could be generalized further to describe the allocation of public goods.\n\nStouten (2006) further generalized the principle of fairness to be applied to the provision of public goods. He and his colleagues ran three experiments to find how participants reacted when one member of their group violated the equality rule, which states that all group members will coordinate to equally and fairly contribute to the efficient provision of public goods. Their findings demonstrated that the participants believed that the equality rule should be applied to others and therefore when one person violated this rule punishment was used against this person, in terms of negative reactions. Therefore, the equality rule applied in real life situations should lead to the efficient provision of public goods if violations of the important coordination and fairness rules can be detected. However, often these violations cannot be detected which then leads to the free rider problem and an under-provision of public goods.\n\n"}
{"id": "12578245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12578245", "title": "Radicalization", "text": "Radicalization\n\nRadicalization (or radicalisation) is a process by which an individual, or group comes to adopt increasingly extreme political, social, or religious ideals and aspirations that reject or undermine the status quo or contemporary ideas and expressions of the nation. The outcomes of radicalization are shaped by the ideas of the society at large; for example, radicalism can originate from a broad social consensus against progressive changes in society or from a broad desire for change in society. Radicalization can be both violent and nonviolent, although most academic literature focuses on radicalization into violent extremism (RVE). There are multiple pathways that constitute the process of radicalization, which can be independent but are usually mutually reinforcing.\n\nRadicalization that occurs across multiple reinforcing pathways greatly increases a group’s resilience and lethality. Furthermore, by compromising its ability to blend in with non-radical society and participate in a modern, national economy, radicalization serves as a kind of sociological trap that gives individuals no other place to go to satisfy their material and spiritual needs.\n\nThere is no universally accepted definition of radicalization. Therefore, no one definition can be presented here. One of the difficulties with defining radicalization appears to be the importance of the context to determine what is perceived as radicalization. Therefore, radicalization can mean different things to different people. Presented below is a list of definitions used by different governments.\n\nThe UK Home Office, MI5’s parent agency, defines radicalization as “The process by which people come to support terrorism and violent extremism and, in some cases, then join terrorist groups.” The MI5 report closes by saying that no single measure will reduce radicalization in the UK and that the only way to combat it is by targeting the at risk vulnerable groups and trying to assimilate them into society. This may include helping young people find jobs, better integrating immigrant populations into the local culture, and effectively reintegrating ex-prisoners into society.\n\nThe Royal Canadian Mounted Police defines radicalization as \"the process by which individuals—usually young people—are introduced to an overtly ideological message and belief system that encourages movement from moderate, mainstream beliefs towards extreme views. While radical thinking is by no means problematic in itself, it becomes a threat to national security when Canadian citizens or residents espouse or engage in violence or direct action as a means of promoting political, ideological or religious extremism. Sometimes referred to as “homegrown terrorism,” this process of radicalization is more correctly referred to as domestic radicalization leading to terrorist violence.”\n\nThe Danish Security and Intelligence Service (PET) defines radicalization as “A process by which a person to an increasing extent accepts the use of undemocratic or violent means, including terrorism, in an attempt to reach a specific political/ideological objective.”\n\nDespite being composed of multifarious pathways that lead to different outcomes and sometimes diametrically opposed ideological purposes, radicalization can be traced to a common set of pathways that translate real or perceived grievances into increasingly extreme ideas and readiness to participate in political action beyond the status quo. Shira Fishman, a researcher at the National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism, wrote \"Radicalization is a dynamic process that varies for each individual, but shares some underlying commonalities that can be explored.\" Though there are many end products of the process of radicalization, to include all manner of extremist groups both violent and nonviolent, a common series of dynamics have been consistently demonstrated in the course of academic inquiry.\n\nJihadis have a \"tried and tested model\" of contact with different vulnerable, and extremist individuals through online messaging services or social media platforms, and then rapidly manipulating them towards participating in violent action in their name.\n\nIt was reported that Raffia Hayat of the Ahmadiyya Muslim association warned that jailed extremists attempt to recruit violent criminals into radical groups so they carry out attacks on the public once released. There have been several notable criticisms of radicalization theories for focusing disproportionately on Islam.\nThere have been concerns that converts to Islam are more susceptible to violent radicalization than individuals born into the faith. Dr. Abdul Haqq Baker developed the Convert's Cognitive Development Framework that describes how new converts conceptualize Islam and the stages where they are most vulnerable to radicalization.\n\nEli Berman's 2009 book \"Radical, Religious, and Violent: the New Economics of Terrorism\" applies a rational choice model to the process of radicalization, demonstrating that the presence of mutual aid networks increase the resilience of radical groups. When those groups decide to use violence, they also enjoy a heightened level of lethality and are protected from defection and other forms of intervention by states and outside groups.\n\nAll organizations insofar as they include the possibility of free riders by extension experience defection constraints. Within the context of a violent extremist organization, defection means either defection to a counterintelligence or security apparatus, or defection to a non-radical criminal apparatus. Both of these outcomes spoil specific plans to exercise violence in the name of the group at large. The “defection constraint” is similar to a threshold price-point in that it denotes what rewards would justify the defection of any one individual within the context of an organization. Berman uses the example of a Taliban protection racket for convoys of consumer goods moving through Afghanistan: checkpoints are set up at several points along a trade route, and each checkpoint’s team is given a small percentage of the convoy’s total value if it arrives safely at its destination. The incentive for any one checkpoint’s team deciding to simply hijack a convoy as it passes through, sell the goods off, and escape, increases as the value of the convoy increases. The same dynamic applies to attacks; while an individual in a terrorist group may not feel drawn by the reward of alerting the police to an impending low level crime, the reward for alerting the police to an impending high-profile attack, such as a mass bombing, becomes more attractive. While non-radicalized and criminal organizations can only rely on organizational cohesion through a calculus of greed, fear, and perhaps familial loyalty, Berman argues that religious radicalization greatly increases the defection constraints of radical terrorist organizations by requiring outsized demonstrations of commitment to the cause prior to recruiting operatives.\n\nMutual aid is the voluntary and reciprocal exchange of goods within an organization. Examples in various religious antecedents include Judaic Tzedakah, Islamic Zakat, and various Christian institutions of charity, as described in the Acts of the Apostles. Berman argues that religious organizations experience economic risks by extending mutual aid to all alleged believers—theological assent is cheap, action can be costly. By imposing a series of outwardly visible social rules, such as restrictions (or prescriptions) on dress, diet, language, and social interactions, groups impose a cost on entering into a mutual aid partnership, diminishing the occurrence of free riding.\n\nThese restrictions have a dual effect in radical groups. Not only do they ensure that an individual is committed to the cause, but they also diminish individual’s access to consumption opportunities and social interaction that might persuade them to distance themselves from the cause. As individuals become more involved with radical activities, their social circles become more constrained, which diminishes contact with non-radicalized persons and further entrenches radicalized thinking. For example, when a young man spends several years in a Yeshiva in order to establish himself within a Haredi community, he foregoes future earnings that would be accessible should he choose a secular education. To quote Berman “As consumption opportunities are limited, work for pay becomes less appealing, freeing up even more time for community activities.” This sunk cost figures into future calculations, and raises the defection constraint in a way that non-radicalized group dynamics cannot. Going back to the Taliban convoy example, not only have the two footsoldiers in question have been vetted by demonstrating commitment to the cause, they also have had their exterior options limited such that it would be difficult to blend into a new environment for lack of skills and cultural understanding. As such, the threshold price point to defect, as represented by the value of the convoy, increases to include both the price of losing their existing support network and non-quantifiable factors such as friends, family, safety, and other goods over the course of their lives.\n\nWhile the overall arch of radicalization usually involves multiple, reinforcing processes, scholars have identified a series of individual pathways to radicalization. Clark McCauley and Sofia Mosalenko’s 2009 book \"Friction: How Radicalization Happens to Them and Us\" identifies the following sociological and psychodynamic pathways:\n\nThis pathway emphasizes revenge for real or perceived harm inflicted upon oneself by an outside party. This initial offense triggers other psychodynamic mechanisms, such as thinking in more stark in-group and out-group terms, lowered inhibitions to violence, and lessened incentives to avoid violence. Chechen “Shahidka” also known as Black Widows, women who have lost husbands, children, or other close family members in conflict with Russian forces are a good example.\n\n\"Group grievance\" radicalization dynamics are similar to those that are primed by personal grievances; the difference is that the subject perceives harm inflicted on a group that she belongs to or has sympathy for. This pathway accounts for the larger portion of political and ethnic radical violence, in which action is taken on behalf of the group at large rather than as an act of personal revenge. Radicalization out of sympathy for an outgroup is rarer, but can be observed in the Weather Underground's attempted alignment with the Black Panthers and Viet Cong. The tie between radicalization into violent extremism through group grievance and suicide bombing has also been quantifiably demonstrated: perceived threats to proximal identity such as the presence of foreign troops or invasion accounts for the majority of suicide bombings.\n\nThe \"Slippery slope\" represents gradual radicalization through activities that incrementally narrow the individual’s social circle, narrow their mindset, and in some cases desensitize them to violence. This has also been called the “True Believer” syndrome, as a product of which one becomes increasingly serious about their political, social, and religious beliefs as a product of “taking the next step”. One can begin by participating in nonviolent activities such as mutual aid, wherein the best way to raise one’s in-group social status is to demonstrate seriousness about the cause and increase the level of commitment in terms of beliefs and activities. As an individual commits act after act, sunk costs are developed. Even if activity is initially only ideological or only criminal, the process of radicalization conflates the two such that criminal acts are justified for intellectually radical purposes, and radical purposes are invoked to justify what are ultimately criminal acts.\n\nRomantic and familial entanglement is often an overlooked factor in radicalization. Several violent extremist organizations, especially at their origin, owe their structure to a tight-knit group of friends who share religious, economic, social, and sexual bonds. While this example is evident in more extreme cases, such as those of Charles Manson's \"Family\" and other radical cults, it also applies to radicalization in secular and orthodox religious environments. Love can serve as a connection between influential figures, connecting their networks of followers through a combination of attraction and loyalty. This particular force was especially notable in New Left radical groups, such as the American Weather Underground and the German Red Army Faction. The connections between Bill Ayers and Bernardine Dohrn, or between Gudrun Ensslin and Andreas Baader served as the organizational and intellectual nucleus of these groups.\n\nWithin a radical group, high-risk behavior, if successful, offers a pathway to status insofar as it becomes re-construed as bravery and commitment to the cause. As such, violence or other radical activity provides a pathway to success, social acceptance, and physical rewards that might otherwise be out of reach. \n\nJames Pugel conducted a study, in which Liberian ex-combatants, indicated their motivations to become radicalized were based on the opportunity to increase their economic and social status within their community. There was a belief that radicalized individuals lived better than non-radicalized individuals. Specifically, extremists groups offered compensatory employment, which provided the means for basic needs to be met such as food and housing.In addition, radicalization provided protection and safety from local violence (i.e. abductions) for their entire family. All of which are contributory to the notion of an elevated economic and social status within the community.\n\nOther researchers such as Alpaslan Ozerdem and Sukanya Podder contend that radicalization “can become the only route to survival, offering protection from torture, abuse, and politically instigated killing.\" It is worth noting that in some cases, individuals that did not join, were subjected to an indefinite “insufferable social burden that included demeaning names and labels\".\n\nLoss of social connection can open an individual to new ideas and a new identity that may include political radicalization. Isolated from friends, family, or other basic needs, individuals may begin to associate with unlike parties, to include political, religious, or cultural radicals. This is especially noted in \"prison radicalization\", where individuals bind together over racial, religious, and gang identity to a greater degree than in the outside world and often bring their newfound radical identity beyond prison to connect with radical organizations in the populace at large.\n\nRobert Barrett is one of the leading researchers in field research with Nigerian terrorist groups. Barrett contributes a unique perspective to this type of research because his studies are conducted with current, not former, members of insurgent groups. Barrett’s 2008 field research study revealed unique typologies and motivations for radicalization as reported by insurgent groups. For instance, individuals that were radicalized expressed sentiments of volunteerism, yet extremist recruiters conveyed that their objective was to make “coercion feel like volunteerism.” Barrett asserted that the motivations to become radicalized can be characterized as: ideologue, combatant, criminals, pragmatist, soldier, and follower.\n\nIdeologues uphold a belief that ethnic supremacy is necessary and violence was the means to achieve this truth. Ideologues maintain a “readiness to die for the ethnic group if necessary; survival and preservation of the group or community is more important than survival or preservation of oneself”.\n\nCombatants’ express concerns that their basic survival depends on joining extremist groups. Hence, combatants are not motivated by ideologies and their primary objective is self-preservation.\n\nCriminals are predominantly motivated by their “freedom to carry out activities that would otherwise be deemed illegal”. As such, criminals thrive on instant self-gratification of engaging in violent acts against their enemies. Criminals thrive on conflict and in a sense believe their actions are heroic.\n\nPragmatists are interested in the benefits of economic and social status mobility. Their goals are in “preserving the structures and environment conducive to either continued success or to newfound success” in wealth, land ownership, and/or mining rights.\n\nSoldiers believe “injustice and insecurity” are mitigating factors for radicalization. Prominent feelings that they have a duty to fight against injustices. Soldiers are motivated by a sense that they can instrumentally affect positive change.\n\nFollowers desire a sense of group dependence and attachment to overcome feelings of being an outsider. They are overwhelmingly concerned with social perception. “Ensuring one’s acceptance and preserving or enhancing one’s social status within the community was the most important factor promoting membership”.\n\nInsofar as a group is a dynamic system with a common goal or set of values it is possible that the group’s mindset as a whole can affect individuals such that those individuals become more radical.\n\nDiscussion, interaction, and experience within a radical group can result in an aggregate increase in commitment to the cause, and in some cases can contribute to the formation of divergent conceptions of the group’s purpose and preferred tactics. Within a radical group, internal dynamics can contribute to the formation of different factions as a result of internal disillusionment (or, conversely, ambitions) with the group’s activities as a whole, especially when it comes to a choice between violent terrorism and nonviolent activism. The Weather Underground’s split with Students for a Democratic Society is one of many examples. The dynamics of group polarization imply that members of this larger group must either commit to one faction and demonstrate their loyalty through further radicalization, or leave the group entirely.\n\nIsolation reinforces the influence of radical thinking by allowing serious and or persuasive members of the group to disproportionately define the body's agenda. When an individual only has access to one in-group social environment, that group gains a totalizing influence over the individual—disapproval would be tantamount to social death, personal isolation, and often a lack of access to the basic services that mutual aid communities fulfill. As an isolated minority, Islamic groups in the West are especially vulnerable to this form of radicalization. Being cut off from society at large through language barriers, cultural difference, and occasionally discriminatory treatment, Muslim communities become more vulnerable to additional pathways of radicalization\n\nOne such additional pathway of radicalization of individuals that feel isolated is the Internet. Utilizing data compiled by the Internet World Stats, Robin Thompson contends that the Middle East and North Africa rate of Internet usage is “above average” in comparison to other countries, yet in countries where Internet availability is more widespread, individuals are “more likely to be recruited and radicalized via the Internet.” Hence, the Internet, specifically social media sites such as extremists’ chat rooms and blogs, “lures its users with a promise of friendship, acceptance, or a sense of purpose.”\n\nGroups can become radicalized vis-a-vis other groups as they compete for legitimacy and prestige with the general populace. This pathway emphasizes increased radicalization in an effort to outdo other groups, whether that increase is in violence, time spent in religious ritual, economic and physical hardship endured, or all four. Religious movements and the terrorist elements that form in their name display this characteristic. While in some cases there may be doctrinal or ethnic differences that motivate this kind of competition, its greatest outward sign is an increased demand by the group for commitment to radical actions. \n\nAlso called \"the logic of political violence\", Jiujitsu politics is a form of asymmetrical political warfare in which radical groups act to provoke governments to crack down on the populace at large and produce domestic blowback that legitimates further violent action. The primary purpose of a radical group using this tactic is not to destroy the enemy outright, but to make the enemy strike at political and ideological moderates, such that the existing political order loses its claim on legitimacy while the radical group gains legitimacy. By destroying moderates, radical groups encourage a bifurcated society and use state's reactions to violence as a justification for further violence.\nAl-Qaeda's strategy of luring the West, specifically the United States, into ground wars in Islamic states that polarize the Ummah against the West while avoiding engagements that would allow the American military to draw on its technical superiority is an example of jiujitsu politics. David Kilcullen, Counterinsurgency advisor to David Petraeus during the Iraq Surge, has called this the \"accidental guerrilla syndrome\".\n\nThis tactic is also pillar of Maoist insurgency and serves both the purposes of tactical and ideological advantage.\n\nIn protracted conflicts the enemy is increasingly seen as less human, such that their common humanity does not readily trigger natural inhibitions against violence. This involves \"essentializing\" both the self and enemies as respectively good and evil entities. The Islamist use of Takfirism, or (apostasy), to justify the murder of non-radical Muslims and nonbelievers (\"kafir\": \"pagans\") is an example of this. Hannah Arendt, in The Origins of Totalitarianism outlines a similar dynamic that contributed to the ideologies of pan-slavism, Nazism, and antisemitism, where an in-group constructs an exalted self identity for political purposes and mobilizes against out-groups in order to solidify that identity. This dynamic of hatred is not unique to rightist groups. The Weathermen and Red Army Faction often characterized police officers and government officials as “pigs” worthy of death and subhuman treatment.\n\nMartyrdom implies that the person in question died for a cause or is willing to die for a cause. The symbolic impact of martyrdom varies across cultures, but within the field of radicalization the act or pursuit of martyrdom denotes the absolute value of a radical’s way of life.\n\nThe association between radicalization and poverty is a myth. Many terrorists come from middle-class backgrounds and have university-level educations, particularly in the technical sciences and engineering. There is no statistical association between poverty and militant radicalization. As outlined above, poverty and disadvantage may incentivize joining a mutual aid organization with radical tendencies, but this does not mean that poverty proper is responsible for radicalization.\n\nThough personal psychology does play a significant part in radicalization, mental illness is not a root cause of terrorism specifically or ideological radicalization broadly. Even in the case of suicide terrorism, psychological pathologies, such as depression and schizophrenia are largely absent.\n\n"}
{"id": "29373939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29373939", "title": "Regression control chart", "text": "Regression control chart\n\nIn statistical quality control, the regression control chart allows for monitoring a change in a process where two or more variables are correlated. The change in a dependent variable can be detected and compensatory change in the independent variable can be recommended. Examples from the Post Office Department provide an application of such models.\n\nRegression control chart differs from a traditional control chart in four main aspects:\n"}
{"id": "3067655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3067655", "title": "Scientia potentia est", "text": "Scientia potentia est\n\nThe phrase \"scientia potentia est\"\" (or \"scientia est potentia\" or also \"scientia potestas est\")\" is a Latin aphorism meaning \"knowledge is power\". It is commonly attributed to Sir Francis Bacon, although there is no known occurrence of this precise phrase in Bacon's English or Latin writings. However, the expression \"ipsa scientia potestas est\" ('knowledge itself is power') occurs in Bacon's \"Meditationes Sacrae\" (1597). The exact phrase \"scientia potentia est\" was written for the first time in the 1668 version of the work \"Leviathan\" by Thomas Hobbes, who was secretary to Bacon as a young man.\n\nThe related phrase \"sapientia est potentia\" is often translated as \"wisdom is power\".\n\nThe earliest documented occurrence of the phrase \"Knowledge is power\" is from Imam Ali (599-661 CE), as recorded in the tenth-century book Nahj Al-Balagha (originally in Arabic). He said:\n\nAnother account of this concept is found in the Shahnameh by the Persian poet Ferdowsi (940–1020 CE) who wrote: \"Capable is he who is wise\" (in Persian: توانا بود هر که دانا بود). This hemistich is translated to English as \"knowledge is power\" or \"One who has wisdom is powerful\".\n\nA proverb in practically the same wording is found in Hebrew, in the Biblical Book of Proverbs (24:5): גֶּבֶר-חָכָם בַּעוֹז; וְאִישׁ-דַּעַת, מְאַמֶּץ-כֹּחַ. This was translated in the latin Vulgata as \"vir sapiens et fortis est et vir doctus robustus et validus\" and in the King James Version, the first English official edition, as \"A wise man is strong, a man of knowledge increaseth strength\".\n\nThe first known reference of the exact phrase appeared in the Latin edition of \"Leviathan\" (1668; the English version had been published in 1651). This passage from Part 1 (\"De Homine\"), Chapter X (\"De Potentia, Dignitate et Honore\") occurs in a list of various attributes of man which constitute power; in this list, \"sciences\" or \"the sciences\" are given a minor position:\nIn the English version this passage reads as thus:\nOn a later work, \"De Corpore\" (1655), also written in Latin, Hobbes expanded the same idea:\n\nIn Jean Hampton, \"Hobbes and the social contract tradition\" (1988), Hampton indicates that this quote is 'after Bacon' and in a footnote, that 'Hobbes was Bacon's secretary as a young man and had philosophical discussions with him (Aubrey 1898, 331).\n\nThe closest expression in Bacon's works is, perhaps, the expression \"scientia potestas est\", found in his \"\" (1597), which is perhaps better translated as \"knowledge is His power\", because the context of the sentence refers to the qualities of God and is imbedded in a discussion of heresies that deny the power of God:\n\"statuuntque latiores terminos scientiae Dei quam potestatis, vel potius ejus partis potestatis Dei (nam et ipsa scientia potestas est) qua scit, quam ejus qua movet et agit: ut praesciat quaedam otiose, quae non praedestinet et praeordinet\".\n\nThe English translation of this section includes the following:\n\nInterpretation of the notion of power meant by Bacon must therefore take into account his distinction between the power of knowing and the power of working and acting, the opposite of what is assumed when the maxim is taken out of context. Indeed, the quotation has become a cliche.\n\nIn another place, Bacon wrote, \"Human knowledge and human power meet in one; for where the cause is not known the effect cannot be produced. Nature to be commanded must be obeyed; and that which in contemplation is as the cause is in operation as the rule.\"\nRalph Waldo Emerson wrote in his essay \"Old Age\", included in the collection \"Society and Solitude\" (1870):\n\nAfter the 1871, unification of Germany, \"Wissen ist Macht, geographisches Wissen ist Weltmacht\" (Knowledge is power, geographical knowledge is world power) was often used in German geography and the public discussion to support efforts for a German colonial empire after 1880. Julius Perthes e.g., used the motto for his publishing house. However, the installation of geographical research followed popular requests and was not imposed by the government. Especially Count Bismarck was not much interested in German colonial adventures; his envoy Gustav Nachtigal started with the first protective areas, but was more interested in ethnological aspects.\n\nAfter World War I, German geography tried to contribute to efforts to regain a world power. Scholars like Karl Haushofer, a former general, and his son Albrecht Haushofer (both in close contact with Rudolf Hess) got worldwide attention with their concept of geopolitics. Associations of German geographers and school teachers welcomed the Machtergreifung and hoped to get further influence in the new regime.\n\nThe postwar geography was much more cautious; concepts of political geography and projection of power had not been widespread scholarly topics till 1989 in Germany.\n\nGeographical knowledge is however still of importance in Germany. Germans tend to mock US politicians' and celebrities' comparable lack of interest in the topic. A Sponti (Außerparlamentarische Opposition) version of the slogan is \"Wissen ist Macht, nichts wissen, macht auch nichts\", a pun about the previous motto along the line \"Knowledge is power, but being ignorant doesn't bother anyway\". Joschka Fischer and Daniel Cohn-Bendit belong to those Spontis that nevertheless held powerful positions, in Fischer's case with no more formal education than a taxi driver's licence.\n\nThe German Bundeswehr Bataillon Elektronische Kampfführung 932, an electronic warfare unit based in Frankenberg (Eder), still uses the Latin version \"Scientia potentia est\" as its motto.\n\nThough its meaning varies from author to author, the phrase often implies that with knowledge or education, one's potential or abilities in life will certainly increase. Having and sharing knowledge is widely recognized as the basis for improving one's reputation and influence, thus power. This phrase may also be used as a justification for a reluctance to share information when a person believes that withholding knowledge can deliver to that person some forms of advantage. Another interpretation is that the only true power is knowledge, as everything (including any achievement) is derived from it.\n\n\nTerry Brooks. \"First King of Shannara\" Ballantine. C. 1996\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19101928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19101928", "title": "Social dangerousness", "text": "Social dangerousness\n\nSocial dangerousness or Pre-criminal danger to society is a legal charge under Cuban law which allows the authorities to detain people who they think are likely to commit crimes. The charge carries a penalty of up to four years in prison. The Cuban government has been accused by Amnesty International of using the charge almost exclusively against critics of the government.\n\nPeople that have been imprisoned under this charge include:\n\nIn 2008, the punk rock singer and dissident Gorki Águila was arrested by police on a charge of social dangerousness. He was eventually ordered to pay a $30 fine for the lesser offence of public disorder, after prosecutors dropped the charge of social dangerousness.\n\nIn 2007, political protester Ramón Velásquez was arrested for the charge of social dangerousness. Velásquez was participating in a march across Cuba that highlighted human rights violations and freedom for political prisoners. Velásquez was then tried in a closed hearing and sentenced to three years in prison. Velásquez was released in January 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "7299728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7299728", "title": "Sociometer", "text": "Sociometer\n\nSociometer theory is a theory of self-esteem from an evolutionary psychological perspective that proposes that state self-esteem is a gauge (or sociometer) of interpersonal relationships. This theoretical perspective was first introduced by Mark Leary and colleagues in 1995 and later expanded on by Kirkpatrick and Ellis.\nIn Leary’s research, the idea of self-esteem as a sociometer is discussed in depth. This theory was created as a response to psychological phenomenon i.e. social emotions, inter- and intra- personal behaviors, self-serving biases, and reactions to rejection. Based on this theory, self-esteem is a measure of effectiveness in social relations and interactions that monitors acceptance and/or rejection from others. With this, an emphasis is placed on relational value, which is the degree to which a person regards his or her relationship with another, and how it affects day-to-day life. Confirmed by various studies and research, if a person is deemed having relational value, they are more likely to have higher self-esteem. According to Leary, there are five main groups associated with relational value that are classified as those affording the greatest impact on an individual. They are: 1) macro-level, i.e., communities, 2) instrumental coalitions, i.e., teams, committees, 3) mating relationships, 4) kin relationships, and 5) friendships. A study was conducted to see just how much people depend on peers and outside factors and relational values to regulate their life. The objective of the study was to pick groups for an activity based on the evaluations given by the students. In the study, two groups were assigned. Both groups consisted of college students that submitted and were subjected to a peer evaluation. The difference being that the control group of students chose if they 1) wanted to interact with the person or 2) dissociated from the person. Previously asked, some students stated that they were indifferent or did not care what others' opinions of them were. However, when results were analyzed there was a great deal of fluctuation in overall self-esteem. Those who were placed in the second group (of dissociation), receiving a low relational value, displayed a lowered self-esteem. As a result, this compromised the way they assessed a/the situation. In the first group, where perceived relational value was high, self-esteem was also high. This provides some evidence for an evolutionary basis in the fundamental human need for inclusion in a group, and the burden of being on the outskirts of social acceptance.\n\n"}
{"id": "161657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161657", "title": "Soft power", "text": "Soft power\n\nSoft power is the ability to attract and co-opt, rather than coerce (hard power). Soft power is the ability to shape the preferences of others through appeal and attraction. A defining feature of soft power is that it is non-coercive; the currency of soft power is culture, political values, and foreign policies. Recently, the term has also been used in changing and influencing social and public opinion through relatively less transparent channels and lobbying through powerful political and non-political organizations. In 2012, Joseph Nye of Harvard University explained that with soft power, \"the best propaganda is not propaganda\", further explaining that during the Information Age, \"credibility is the scarcest resource.\"\n\nNye coined the term in a 1990 book, \"Bound to Lead: The Changing Nature of American Power\". In this book, he wrote: “when one country gets other countries to want what it wants-might be called co-optive or soft power in contrast with the hard or command power of ordering others to do what it wants.” He further developed the concept in his 2004 book, \"Soft Power: The Means to Success in World Politics\". The term is now widely used in international affairs by analysts and statesmen. For example, US Secretary of Defense Robert Gates spoke of the need to enhance American soft power by \"a dramatic increase in spending on the civilian instruments of national security – diplomacy, strategic communications, foreign assistance, civic action and economic reconstruction and development.\" In 2011, Xi Jinping was preparing to take power from General Secretary Hu Jintao, the 17th Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party devoted a whole plenary session to the issue of culture, with the final Communiqué declaring that it was a national goal to \"build our country into a socialist cultural superpower.\" And in 2014, Xi announced, \"We should increase China's soft power, give a good Chinese narrative, and better communicate China's messages to the world.\"\n\nAccording to the Soft Power 30, an annual index published by Portland Communications and the USC Center on Public Diplomacy for 2018, the United Kingdom is the leading sovereign state in soft power. Other leading countries in soft power include France, Germany, the United States, Canada, Japan, Switzerland, Australia, Sweden, and the Netherlands. According to the 2016/17 \"Monocle\" Soft Power Survey, ranks the United States as the leading country in soft power. The Elcano Global Presence Report scores the European Union highest for soft presence when considered as a whole, and ranks the United States first among sovereign states.\n\nJoseph Nye introduced the concept of \"soft power\" in the late 1980s. For Nye, power is the ability to influence the behavior of others to get the outcomes you want. There are several ways one can achieve this: you can coerce them with threats; you can induce them with payments; or you can attract and co-opt them to want what you want. This soft power – getting others to want the outcomes you want – co-opts people rather than coerces them.\n\nIt can be contrasted with 'hard power', which is the use of coercion and payment. Soft power can be wielded not just by states but also by all actors in international politics, such as NGOs or international institutions. It is also considered the \"second face of power\" that indirectly allows you to obtain the outcomes you want. A country's soft power, according to Nye, rests on three resources: \"its culture (in places where it is attractive to others), its political values (when it lives up to them at home and abroad), and its foreign policies (when others see them as legitimate and having moral authority).\"\n\nSoft power resources are the assets that produce attraction which often leads to acquiescence. Nye asserts that, \"Seduction is always more effective than coercion, and many values like democracy, human rights, and individual opportunities are deeply seductive.\" Angelo Codevilla observed that an often overlooked essential aspect of soft power is that different parts of populations are attracted or repelled by different things, ideas, images, or prospects. Soft power is hampered when policies, culture, or values repel others instead of attracting them.\n\nIn his book, Nye argues that soft power is a more difficult instrument for governments to wield than hard power for two reasons: many of its critical resources are outside the control of governments, and soft power tends to \"work indirectly by shaping the environment for policy, and sometimes takes years to produce the desired outcomes.\" The book identifies three broad categories of soft power: \"culture\", \"political values\", and \"policies.\"\n\nIn \"The Future of Power\" (2011), Nye reiterates that soft power is a descriptive, rather than a normative, concept. Therefore, soft power can be wielded for nefarious purposes. \"Hitler, Stalin, and Mao all possessed a great deal of soft power in the eyes of their acolytes, but that did not make it good. It is not necessarily better to twist minds than to twist arms.\" Nye also claims that soft power does not contradict the international relations theory of realism. \"Soft power is not a form of idealism or liberalism. It is simply a form of power, one way of getting desired outcomes.\"\n\nSoft power has been criticized as being ineffective by authors such as Niall Ferguson in the preface to \"Colossus\". Neorealist and other rationalist and neorationalist authors (with the exception of Stephen Walt) dismiss soft power out of hand as they assert that actors in international relations respond to only two types of incentives: economic incentives and force.\n\nAs a concept, it can be difficult to distinguish between soft power from hard power. For example, Janice Bially Mattern argues that George W. Bush's use of the phrase \"you are either with us or with the terrorists\" was in fact an exercise of hard power. Though military and economic force was not used to pressure other states to join its coalition, a kind of force – representational force – was used. This kind of force threatens the identity of its partners, forcing them to comply or risk being labelled as evil. This being the case, soft power is therefore not so soft. However, rationalist authors would merely see this as an 'implied threat', and that direct economic or military sanctions would likely follow from being 'against us'.\n\nThe first attempt to measure soft power through a composite index was created and published by the Institute for Government and the media company \"Monocle\" in 2010. The IfG-Monocle Soft Power Index combined a range of statistical metrics and subjective panel scores to measure the soft power resources of 26 countries. The metrics were organized according to a framework of five sub-indices including culture, diplomacy, education, business/innovation, and government. The index is said to measure the soft power resources of countries, and does not translate directly into ability influence. \"Monocle\" has published an annual \"Soft Power Survey\" since then. As of 2016/17, the list is calculated using around 50 factors that indicate the use of soft power, including the number of cultural missions (primarily language schools), Olympic medals, the quality of a country's architecture and business brands.\n\n\"The Soft Power 30\", which includes a foreword by Joseph Nye, is a ranking of countries' soft power produced and published by the media company \"Portland\" in 2015. The ranking is based on \"the quality of a country’s political institutions, the extent of their cultural appeal, the strength of their diplomatic network, the global reputation of their higher education system, the attractiveness of their economic model, and a country’s digital engagement with the world.\"\n\nThe \"Elcano Global Presence Report\" scores the European Union first for soft presence when its member states are excluded and the EU is considered as a whole.\n\nSoft power, then, represents the third behavioral way of getting the outcomes you want. Soft power is contrasted with hard power, which has historically been the predominant realist measure of national power, through quantitative metrics such as population size, concrete military assets, or a nation's gross domestic product. But having such resources does not always produce the desired outcomes, as the United States discovered in the Vietnam War. The extent of attraction can be measured by public opinion polls, by elite interviews, and case studies.\n\nNye argues that soft power is more than influence, since influence can also rest on the hard power of threats or payments. And soft power is more than just persuasion or the ability to move people by argument, though that is an important part of it. It is also the ability to attract, and attraction often leads to acquiescence.\n\nIn international relations, soft power is generated only in part by what the government does through its policies and public diplomacy. The generation of soft power is also affected in positive (and negative) ways by a host of non-state actors within and outside the country. Those actors affect both the general public and governing elites in other countries, and create an enabling or disabling environment for government policies.\n\nIn some cases, soft power enhances the probability of other elites adopting policies that allow one to achieve preferred outcomes. In other cases, where being seen as friendly to another country is seen as a local political kiss of death, the decline or absence of soft power will prevent a government from obtaining particular goals. But even in such instances, the interactions of civil societies and non-state actors may help to further general milieu goals such as democracy, liberty, and development. Soft power is not the possession of any one country or actor.\n\nThe success of soft power heavily depends on the actor's reputation within the international community, as well as the flow of information between actors. Thus, soft power is often associated with the rise of globalization and neoliberal international relations theory. Popular culture and mass media are regularly identified as a source of soft power, as is the spread of a national language or a particular set of normative structures; a nation with a large amount of soft power and the good will that engenders it inspire others to acculturate, avoiding the need for expensive hard power expenditures. More particularly, international news was found crucial in shaping the image and reputation of foreign countries. The high prominence of the US in international news, for example, has been linked to its soft power. Positive news coverage was associated with positive international views, while negative news coverage with negative views.\n\nBecause soft power has appeared as an alternative to raw power politics, it is often embraced by ethically-minded scholars and policymakers. But soft power is a descriptive rather than a normative concept. Like any form of power, it can be wielded for good or bad purposes. While soft power can be used with bad intentions and wreak horrible consequences, it differs in terms of means. It is on this dimension that one might construct a normative preference for greater use of soft power.\n\nAcademics have engaged in several debates around soft power. These have included:\n\nOne study finds that a state's soft power has a measurable effect on its exports. Countries that are admired for their positive global influence export more, holding other things constant.\n\nThe Soviet Union competed with the U.S. for influence throughout the Cold War. The Soviets were engaged in a broad campaign to convince the world of the attractiveness of its Communist system. In 1945, the Soviet Union was very effective in attracting many in Europe from its resistance to Hitler, and in colonized areas around the world because of its opposition to European imperialism. The Soviets also employed a substantially large public diplomacy program that included: promoting their high culture, broadcasting, disseminating disinformation about the West, and sponsoring nuclear protests, peace movements, and youth organizations. Despite all of this, the Soviets' closed system and lack of popular culture impeded the ability of the Soviet Union to compete with the U.S. in terms of soft power.\n\nA number of non-democratic governments have attempted to use migration as an instrument of soft power: Egypt under the rule of Gamal Abdel Nasser trained and dispatched thousands of teachers across the Arab world in an effort to spread ideas of anti-colonialism and anti-Zionism. In Cuba, the Fidel Castro regime's medical internationalism programme has dispatched thousands of medical professionals abroad for cultural diplomacy purposes. The Chinese-sponsored Confucius Institutes across the world rely on Chinese teachers in order to strengthen the country's soft power abroad. More recently, Turkey's migration diplomacy involves sponsoring the short-term emigration of imams across Europe and North America. \n\nAfter Pope John Paul II visited Poland in 1979, some political commentators said his visit influenced events against Poland's communist government, the Soviet Union, and ultimately communism, which promoted atheism.\n\nBesides the Pope's visit, American-government broadcasting and propaganda into Soviet-occupied Europe, particularly Poland, contributed to the rise of the Solidarity movement and to the collapse of the Soviet-backed governments there and in the rest of the Warsaw Pact alliance.\n\nThe United States and Europe have consistently been sources of influence and soft power. European culture's art, literature, music, design, fashion, and even food have been global magnets for some time. Europe and the U.S. have often claimed to support human rights and international law throughout the world. Unlike the U.S., Europeans' love of football enhances their soft power globally, whereas the primary sports of the U.S. such as American football and baseball are largely unpopular on the world stage. In 2012, the European Union was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize \"for over six decades [it has] contributed to the advancement of peace and reconciliation, democracy and human rights in Europe.\" The U.S. has the largest diplomatic network in the world, the largest number of foreign journalists based in the country, and is the most popular destination for international students. American films, among other influences, have contributed to the Americanization of other cultures.\n\nAsia and more recently China have been working to use the potential soft power assets that are present in the admiration of their ancient cultures, arts, fashion and cuisine. China is presenting itself as a defender of national sovereignty, which became an issue after the NATO air campaign to oust Colonel Muammar Gaddafi and NATO's support of the rebels in Libya. The Chinese are also competing with the United States to gain influence throughout the South Pacific, however some commentators have said their recent assertiveness in this region has created an appeal for nations in this region to align with the United States thus increasing U.S. soft power in this area.\n\nSoft power extends beyond the operations of government, to the activities of the private sector and to society and culture at large. Soft power has gained more influence because it addresses the underlying dispositions of the people who have increasingly become more active in their governments. This is true even in authoritarian countries where people and institutions are increasingly able to shape the debate.\n\nThe information age has also led to the rise of soft power resources for non-state actors, Primarily, through the use of global media, and to a greater extent the internet using tools such as the World Wide Web, non-state actors have been able to increase their soft power and put pressure on governments that can ultimately affect policy outcomes. Instead of front organizations, non-state actors can create cyber advocacy organizations to recruit members and project their voice on the global stage.\n\nChina's traditional culture has been a source of attraction, building on which it has created several hundred Confucius Institutes around the world to teach its language and culture. The enrollment of foreign students in China has increased from 36,000 a decade before to at least 240,000 in 2010. China's Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank has attracted many western countries to join. In 2017, China had the second largest diplomatic network in the world.\n\nA spring 2014 Global Attitudes survey from Pew Research Center states China receives mostly positive reviews in the sub-Saharan African nations polled, although South Africans are closely divided (45% favorable, 40% unfavorable). China's increasing soft power can be explained by looking at China's economic growth and regarding economic engagement with many African countries. China's expansion of trade and investment on the African continent and the spread of Chinese-led infrastructure projects gives positive impressions of China to people in Africa. China's economic engagement in African countries is considered as much more pragmatic and in consistency with the priorities of many African countries. Moreover, China's increasing role as a global superpower seems appealing and this drives a desire to tie African economies more closely to China's economy.\n\nChina has made a systematic effort to expand and give greater profile to its soft-power policies in Africa ever since the first Forum on China-Africa Cooperation in 2000. The commitments of China's soft power ranges from health, humanitarian assistance to academic, professional and cultural exchange. China's assistance to Africa, however, is not near the U.S. assistance in Africa.\n\nCultural exchange between China and Africa can be a representative example of how China has been spreading its soft power.\nIn 2005, the first Confucius Institute was established in Africa. The institute is funded by the Chinese government and it provides Chinese language and cultural programming to the public. There are 19 institutes today in Africa and China has planned to spend 20 million renminbi for education projects in South Africa, including the teaching of Mandarin in 50 local high schools.\n\nFurthermore, there is an increasing support for cultural visitors programs which gained momentum in 2004 when the African Cultural Visitors Program was established. There is a rising number of African entrepreneurs who choose to move to China and there are also diaspora communities in many Chinese cities that have been found.\n\nOutside of Africa, Chinese soft power extends to countries like Barbados. Barbadian Prime Minister David Thompson expressed admiration for the Chinese economic model and sought to emulate the way Chinese state controlled banks guided development.\n\nFrance has long exerted a great amount of soft power. The country and its culture have for centuries been admired in many parts of the world; so much so that Thomas Jefferson is famously quoted as saying \"Every man has two countries, his own and France.\" The very term \"culture\" comes from France. In 2017, France had the third largest diplomatic network in the world.\n\nFrance was a focal point of the Age of Enlightenment; its attachment to the ideals of liberty, equality, tolerance and reason was notably embodied in the writing and publishing of the \"Encyclopédie\". The French Revolution was one of the most significant events in European and world history. France has since then been instrumental in spreading Republican ideals. The Napoleonic Code, which influenced much of the rest of Europe and beyond, is regarded as one of the most important law document of the modern era.\n\nThe French language has for centuries been an important diplomatic language. For example, French has to be used – on par with English – for all documents issued by the United Nations Treaty Series, ensuring that all UN treaties are equally valid in their English and French versions.\n\nFrance has also followed for decades a very active diplomatic and cultural policy. The \"Alliance Française\", whose aim is to promote the French language and French culture, was created as early as 1883. In \"Monocle\"'s 2015 \"Soft Power 30\" report, France was ranked first in the \"engagement\" criteria, which is intended to measure \"the reach of states’ diplomatic network and their commitment to major challenges like development and the environment.\" \"Monocle\" further noted that \"In terms of influential reach, France is the best networked state in the world and is member of more multi-lateral organisations than any other country.\" Overall, France ranked fourth in that study.\n\nFrance's laïcité, secularism, policy has inspired some countries over time. For instance, France was Atatürk's main role model for Westernization as part of the major reform efforts that he spearheaded when he was President of Turkey.\n\nFrance, and in particular Paris, has long been considered one of the most romantic places to be. France was in 2014 the most visited country in the world.\n\nThe annual soft power rankings by \"Monocle\" magazine and the Institute for Government ranks 30 countries which “best attract favor from other nations through culture, sport, cuisine, design, diplomacy and beyond.”\n\"Monocle\" magazine said: “Merkel may be painted as a stern taskmaster but it seems she has a softer side, or the country she leads does.”\nIt said Germany’s rise as a soft power should not come as a surprise.\n“The country is traditionally excellent at pursuing its ideas, values and aims using diplomatic, cultural and economic tools,\" it said. “By quietly doing the simple things well it is a country that has become a global power and the rest of us can feel comfortable with that.”\nGermans had been understandably wary about depicting a dominant image abroad, the magazine added, but it said that the country’s rise should not make everyone else feel uncomfortable. In 2017, Germany had the eighth largest diplomatic network in the world.\n\nThe famous elements of Italian soft culture are its art, music, fashion, and iconic food. Italy was the birthplace of opera, and for generations the language of opera was Italian, irrespective of the nationality of the composer. Popular tastes in drama in Italy have long favored comedy; the improvisational style known as the \"Commedia dell'arte\" began in Italy in the mid-16th century and is still performed today. Before being exported to France, the famous Ballet dance genre also originated in Italy.\nThe country boasts several world-famous cities. Rome was the ancient capital of the Roman Empire and seat of the Pope of the Catholic Church. Florence was the heart of the Renaissance, a period of great achievements in the arts that ended the Dark Ages. Other important cities include Turin, which used to be the capital of Italy, and is now one of the world's great centers of automobile engineering. Milan is a fashion capital of the World. Venice, with its intricate canal system, attracts tourists from all over the world especially during the Venetian Carnival and the Biennale.\nItaly is home to the greatest number of UNESCO World Heritage Sites (51) to date, and according to one estimate the country is home to half the world's great art treasures. The nation has, overall, an estimated 100,000 monuments of any sort (churches, cathedrals, archaeological sites, houses and statues).\n\nItaly is considered the birthplace of Western civilization and a cultural superpower. In 2017, Italy had the eleventh largest diplomatic network in the world.\n\n\"Cool Japan\" is a concept coined in 2002 as an expression of Japan’s popular culture. The concept has been adopted by the Japanese government as well as trade bodies seeking to exploit the commercial capital of the country’s culture industry. It has been described as a form of soft power, \"the ability to indirectly influence behavior or interests through cultural or ideological means.\"\nIn a 2002 article in the journal \"Foreign Policy\" titled “Japan’s Gross National Cool”, Douglas McGray wrote of Japan “reinventing superpower” as its cultural influence expanded internationally despite the economic and political problems of the “lost decade.” Surveying youth culture and the role of J-pop, manga, anime, fashion, film, consumer electronics, architecture, and cuisine, McGray highlighted Japan’s considerable soft power, posing the question of what message the country might project. He also argued that Japan’s recession may even have boosted its national cool, due to the partial discrediting of erstwhile rigid social hierarchies and big-business career paths. In 2017, Japan had the fifth largest diplomatic network in the world.\n\nRussia has been developing its soft power by investing in various public diplomacy instruments throughout the 2000s but the term was first used in an official document in 2010 as President Medvedev approved an Addendum to the national Foreign Policy Concept. The term was not defined but it was described as related to cultural diplomacy. In 2013, the term appeared in a new version of the Foreign Policy Concept where the soft power was defined as \"a comprehensive toolkit for achieving foreign policy objectives building on civil society potential, information, cultural and other methods and technologies alternative to traditional diplomacy.\" In 2007, Russian President Vladimir Putin was named \"Time\" Person of the Year. In 2013, he was named most powerful person by Forbes magazine. In 2015, Russia led the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union. In 2017, Russia had the fourth largest diplomatic network in the world. In the wake of the poisoning of Sergei and Yulia Skripal in 2018, the BBC reported that \"Its extensive diplomatic network reflects both its imperial history as a great power in the 19th Century, as well as its Cold War posture. It has a multitude of posts in Eastern Europe and former communist allies including China, Vietnam, Cuba and Angola, as well as legacies of the former USSR in Africa and Asia. The size of its network reflects the extent of its undiminished global ambition.\"\n\n\"Hallyu\", also known as the \"Korean Wave\", is a neologism referring to the spread of South Korean culture since the late 1990s. According to a \"Washington Post\" reporter, the spread of South Korean entertainment has led to higher sales of other goods and services such as food, clothing, and Korean language classes. Besides increasing the amount of exports, the \"Korean Wave\" is used by the government as a soft power tool to engage with the masses of young people all over the world, and to try reduce anti-Korean sentiment.\n\nIn 2012, the BBC's country rating poll revealed that public opinion of South Korea has been improving every year since the first rating poll for the country was conducted in 2009. In several countries such as Russia, India, China and France, public opinion of South Korea turned from slightly negative to generally positive. The report cited culture and tradition as among the most important factors contributing to positive perceptions of South Korea. This comes alongside a rapid growth in the total value of cultural exports which rose to US$4.2 billion in 2011.\n\nFirst driven by the spread of Korean dramas televised across East, South and Southeast Asia during its initial stages, the \"Korean Wave\" evolved from a regional development into a global phenomenon due to the proliferation of Korean pop (K-pop) music videos on YouTube. Currently, the spread of the \"Korean Wave\" to other regions of the world is most visibly seen among teenagers and young adults in Latin America, the Middle East, North Africa, and immigrant enclaves of the Western world.\n\nSince the period of \"Pax Britannica\" the United Kingdom has held significant soft power. Today it remains one of the most influential countries in the world, coming first in the 2015 Portland Group, Comres, Facebook report, and the \"Monocle\" survey of global soft power in 2012.\n\nThe UK has strong diplomatic relations with countries around the world, particularly countries in the Commonwealth of Nations and many others in Europe, Asia, the Middle-east, Africa and the United States. Diplomatic missions between Commonwealth countries are known as High Commissions rather than Embassies to indicate the closeness of the relationship. The UK exerts influence on countries within the European Union, and has the seventh largest global network of diplomatic missions as of 2017. Many countries around the world use the British form of democracy and government known as the Westminster system.\n\nThe influence of British culture and sports are widespread, particularly notable during the British Invasion, Cool Britannia, and more recently the Diamond Jubilee and 2012 Summer Olympics. The opening and closing ceremonies celebrated British culture and achievements with the world. London was the first city to host the modern Olympics three times. British media is broadcast internationally, notably the \"BBC World Service\", \"BBC World News\" and \"The Economist\" magazine. British film and literature have international appeal, and British theatre helps make London one of the most visited cities in the world. Schools and universities in Britain are popular destinations for students of other nations.\n\nAlongside the English language, English contract law is the most important and most used contract law in international business. London is the headquarters for four of the world's six largest law firms. The UK and more specifically London is a centre of international finance where foreign participants in financial markets come to deal with one another. It is headquarters for major international corporations, many of which choose to be listed on the London Stock Exchange.\n\nFollowing the poisoning of Sergei and Yulia Skripal in 2018, the UK responded with bilateral and multilateral diplomatic efforts that led to nations around the world expelling one hundred and fifty Russian diplomats, described by CNN as a \"remarkable diplomatic coup for Britain\". British prime minister Theresa May stated in parliament that the coordinated global response was the \"largest collective expulsion of Russian intelligence officers in history.\" Subsequently, Russia attempted to attribute some of the influence to the United States, this was denied by the various states as well as the entirety of the European Union.\n\nThe United States has long had a great deal of soft power. Examples include Franklin D. Roosevelt's four freedoms in Europe at the end of World War II, young people behind the Iron Curtain listening to the government's foreign propaganda arm Radio Free Europe, Chinese students symbolizing their protests in Tiananmen Square by creating a replica of the Statue of Liberty that they called \"Goddess of Democracy\", newly liberated Afghans in 2001 asking for a copy of the Bill of Rights and young Iranians today surreptitiously watching banned American videos and satellite television broadcasts in the privacy of their homes. America's early commitment to religious toleration, for example, was a powerful element of its overall appeal to potential immigrants; and American aid in the reconstruction of Europe after World War II was a propaganda victory to show off the prosperity and the generosity of the people of the United States.\n\nStudies of American broadcasting into the Soviet bloc, and testimonials from Czech President Václav Havel, Polish President Lech Wałęsa, and Russian President Boris Yeltsin support that soft power efforts of the United States and its allies during the Cold War were ultimately successful in creating the favorable conditions that led to the collapse of the Soviet Union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3450546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3450546", "title": "Sufi metaphysics", "text": "Sufi metaphysics\n\nMajor ideas in Sufi metaphysics have surrounded the concept of \"weḥdah\" () meaning \"unity\", or in Arabic \"tawhid\". Two main Sufi philosophies prevail on this topic. \"waḥdat al-wujūd\" literally means the \"Unity of Existence\" or \"Unity of Being\" but better translation would be Monotheism of Existence. Wujud (i.e. existence) here refers to Allah's Wujud - implication is Wahdat/Tawheed Of Wujud Of Allah. On the other hand, \"waḥdat ash-shuhūd\", meaning \"Apparentism\" or \"Monotheism of Witness\", holds that God and his creation are entirely separate.\n\nSome Islamic reformers have claimed that the difference between the two philosophies differ only in semantics and that the entire debate is merely a collection of \"verbal controversies\" which have come about because of ambiguous language. However, the concept of the relationship between God and the universe is still actively debated both among Sufis and between Sufis and non-Sufi Muslims.\n\nThe philosophy of Wahdat al-Wujud was first ever prevailed by Husayn ibn Ali in his book Mirat-ul-Arifeen which he wrote in response to the question of his son Zayn al-Abidin about the explanation of Surah Al-Fatiha. In this book, he interpreted the ideology of Wahdat al-wujud for the first time in the most comprehensive way. After that, the mystical thinker and theologian Abu Saeed Mubarak Makhzoomi discussed this concept in his book called Tohfa Mursala. An Andalusian Sufi saint Ibn Sabin is also known to employ this term in his writings. But the Sufi saint who is most characterized in discussing the ideology of Sufi metaphysics in deepest details is Ibn Arabi. He employs the term wujud to refer to God as the Necessary Being. He also attributes the term to everything other than God, but he insists that wujud does not belong to the things found in the cosmos in any real sense. Rather, the things borrow wujud from God, much as the earth borrow light from the sun. The issue is how wujūd can rightfully be attributed to the things, also called \"entities\" (aʿyān). From the perspective of tanzih, Ibn Arabi declares that wujūd belongs to God alone, and, in his famous phrase, the things \"have never smelt a whiff of wujud.\" From the point of view of tasbih, he affirms that all things are wujūd's self-disclosure (tajalli) or self-manifestation (ẓohur). In sum, all things are \"He/not He\" (howa/lāhowa), which is to say that they are both God and other than God, both wujud and other than wujud. In his book Fasus –al-Hikam, Ibn-e-Arabi states that \" wujūd is the unknowable and inaccessible ground of everything that exists. God alone is true wujūd, while all things dwell in nonexistence, so also wujūd alone is nondelimited (muṭlaq), while everything else is constrained, confined, and constricted. Wujūd is the absolute, infinite, nondelimited reality of God, while all others remain relative, finite, and delimited\".\n\nIbn Arabi’s doctrine of wahdat ul wujud focuses on the esoteric (batin) reality of creatures instead of exoteric (zahir) dimension of reality. Therefore he interprets that wujud is one and unique reality from which all reality derives. The external world of sensible objects is but a fleeting shadow of the Real (al- Haq), God . God alone is the all embracing and eternal reality. Whatever exists is the shadow(tajalli) of the Real and is not independent of God. This is summed up in Ibn Arabi’s own words.\n\" Glory to Him who created all things, being Himself their very essence(ainuha)\"\n\nTo call wujud or Real Being \"one\" is to speak of the unity of the Essence. In other terms, it is to say that Being—Light in itself—is nondelimited (mutlaq), that is, infinite and absolute, undefined and indefinable, indistinct and indistinguishable. In contrast, everything other than Being—every existent thing (mawjûd)—is distinct, defined, and limited(muqayyad). The Real is incomparable and transcendent, but it discloses itself (tajallî) in all things, so it is also similar and immanent. It possesses such utter nondelimitation that it is not delimited by nondelimitation. \"God possesses Nondelimited Being, but no delimitation prevents Him from delimitation. On the contrary, He possesses all delimitations, so He is nondelimited delimitation\" \nOn the highest level, wujūd is the absolute and nondelimited reality of God, the \"Necessary Being\" (wājib al-wujūd) that cannot not exist. In this sense, wujūd designates the Essence of God or of the Real (dhāt al-ḥaqq), the only reality that is real in every respect. On lower levels, wujūd is the underlying substance of \"everything other than God\" (māsiwāAllāh)—which is how Ibn Arabi and others define the \"cosmos\" or \"universe\" (al-ʿālam). Hence, in a secondary meaning, the term wujūd is used as shorthand to refer to the whole cosmos, to everything that exists. It can also be employed to refer to the existence of each and every thing that is found in the universe.\n\nGod's 'names' or 'attributes', on the other hand, are the relationships which can be discerned between the Essence and the cosmos. They are known to God because he knows every object of knowledge, but they are not existent entities or ontological qualities, for this would imply plurality in the godhead.\nIbn 'Arabî used the term \"effusion\" (fayd) to denote the act of creation. His writings contain expressions which show different stages of creation, a distinction merely logical and not actual. The following gives details about his vision of creation in three stages: the Most Holy Effusion (al-fayd al-aqdas), the Holy Effusion (al-fayd al-muqaddas) and the Perpetual Effusion (al-fayd al-mustamirr).\nWaḥdat al-wujūd spread through the teachings of the Sufis like Qunyawi, Jandi, Tilimsani, Qayshari, Jami etc.\n\nThe noted scholar Muhibullah Allahabadi strongly supported the doctrine.\n\nSachal Sarmast and Bulleh Shah two Sufi poets from India, were also ardent followers of Waḥdat al-wujūd.\nIt is also associated with the \"Hamah Ust\" (Persian meaning \"He is the only one\") philosophy in South Asia.\n\nTashkīk or gradation is closely associated with Sadrian interpretation of waḥdat al-wujūd. According to this school, the reality and existence are identical which means existence is one but graded in intensity. This methodology was given a name of tashkik al-wujud and it thus explains that there is gradation of existence that stand in a vast hierarchical chain of being (marāṭib al-wujūd) from floor (farsh) to divine throne (ʿarsh), but the wujūd of each existent \"māhīyya\" is nothing but a grade of the single reality of wujūd whose source is God, the absolute being (al-wujūd al-mutlaq). What differentiates the wujūd of different existents is nothing but wujūd in different degrees of strength and weakness. The universe is nothing but different degrees of strengths and weaknesses of wujūd, ranging from intense degree of wujūd of arch-angelic realities, to the dim wujūd of lowly dust from which Adam was made.\n\nSufi metaphysics has been a subject to criticism by most non-Sufis; in Al-Andalus, where most of the Muslim scholars were either Zahirites or Malikites preferring the Ash'arite creed, Sufi metaphysics was considered blasphemy and its practitioners blacklisted. Followers of the Ash'arite creed in the east were often suspicious of Sufism as well, most often citing Sufi metaphysics as well.\n\nSome Sufis, such as Ahmad Sirhindi, have criticised wahdat-al-wujud. Ahmad Sirhindi wrote about the sayings that universe has no existence of its own and is a shadow of the existence of the necessary being. He also wrote that one should discern the existence of universe from the absolute and that the absolute does not exist because of existence but because of his essence.\n\nPir Meher Ali Shah and Syed Waheed Ashraf have countered that the two concepts differ in that wahdat-al-wujud states that God and the universe aren't identical. They hold real existence to be for God only and the universe to have no existence on its own.\n\nWaḥdat asḥ-Shuhūd (or \"wah-dat-ul-shuhud\", \"wahdat-ul-shuhud,\" or \"wahdatulshuhud\") has often been translated into English as Apparentism. In Arabic it literally means \"unity of witness\", \"unity of perception\", \"unity of appearance\" or \"oneness of manifestation\".\n\nOut of those who opposed the doctrine of waḥdat al-wujūd, there were those who substituted the pole of subject for the object, formulating the doctrine of Waḥdat asḥ-Shuhūd. This school was formulated by ʿAlāʾ ad-DawlahSimnānī, was to attract many followers in India, including Ahmed Sirhindi who provided some of the most widely accepted formulations of this doctrine in the Indian sub-continent.\n\nAccording to Ahmed Sirhindi's doctrine, any experience of unity between God and the created world is purely subjective and occurs only in the mind of the believer; it has no objective counterpart in the real world. The former position, Shaykh Ahmad felt, led to pantheism, which was contrary to the tenets of Sunni Islam. He held that God and creation are not identical; rather, the latter is a shadow or reflection of the Divines Name and Attributes when they are reflected in the mirrors of their opposite non-beings (aʿdām al-mutaqābilah).Abu Hafs Umar al-Suhrawardi and Abd-al-karim Jili were also proponents of apparent-ism.\n\nShah Waliullah Dehlawi tried to reconcile the two (apparently) contradictory doctrines of waḥdat al-wujūd (unity of being) of Ibn Arabi and waḥdat ash-shuhūd (unity in conscience) of Shaykh Ahmad Sirhindi. Shah Waliullah neatly resolved the conflict, calling these differences 'verbal controversies' which have come about because of ambiguous language. If we leave, he says, all the metaphors and similes used for the expression of ideas aside, the apparently opposite views of the two metaphysicians will agree. The positive result of Shah Wali Allah's reconciliatory efforts was twofold: it brought about harmony between the two opposing groups of meta-physicians, and it also legitimized the doctrine of waḥdat al-wujūd among the mutakallimun (theologians), who previously had not been ready to accept it.\n\nIn his books Lamahat and Sata'at, he discusses stages of being, the perceptive faculty, the relation of the abstract with the universe, the universal soul and the souls of man, after death, essence, miracles, the scope of man, the soul of the perfect, universal order, source of manifestation, and the transformation of mystics from quality to quality. He also demonstrated that the long-standing assumption that Sufi doctrine was divided between Apparentism and Unity of Being was a difference of expression alone, the latter doctrine being seen as merely a less-advanced stage of projection.\n\nIn his opinion this whole universe has also self (nafs) as an individual person has a self, which is called the Universal Soul (an-nafs al-kullīyyah). The multiplicity of the whole universe has originated from it. When Ibn Arabi says that everything is God, he thereby means the Universal Soul. This Universal Soul, or the Self-unfolding Being (al-wujūd-al-munbasiṭ), subsists by itself. This existence pervades the whole universe, both the substance and the accident, and accepts the form of everything. It is both immanent and transcendental. Beyond this existence (al-wujūd al-munbasiṭ : Universal Soul) towards the original existence (God) none has access to. In other words, man's progress ends with the Universal Soul or the Self-unfolding Being. He cannot move a step further. The Universal Soul and God are so intermingled that the former is often taken for the latter.\"\n\nAs for the question of the relation that this existence (al-wujūd al-munbasiṭ) has with the essence of God itself. This relation is, however, known only in its reality (anniyyah : I-ness); its quality is unknown and can never be known. Thus when Ibn Arabi says that the realities of the existing things are the names and the attributes of the Universal Soul (Self-unfolding Being) in the stage of knowledge (fīmarṭabat al-ʿilm, in the Divine Consciousness) or when Imam Rabbani asserts that the realities of existing objects are sheer nothingness on which the lights of the names and attributes of the Universal Soul (al-wujūd al-munbasiṭ) are reflected is exactly the same thing. The difference in their language is so little that it needs no consideration.\n\nSultan Bahoo first introduced the concept of 'waḥdat al-maqṣūd,' the 'intention of Unity' or the 'necessity of unity.' Sultan Bahoo did not sufficiently elaborate on this idea, focusing his interest and attention towards the concept of 'fanāʾ fi-llāh, baqāʾbillāh' (Annihilation in God, Lasting with God). He was the only Sufi scholar to establish the concept of lasting forever with Allah by ceasing, or annihilating one's self in Allah.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1244397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1244397", "title": "Tea party", "text": "Tea party\n\nA tea party is a formal, ritualized gathering for the small meal called afternoon tea.\n\nFormal tea parties are often characterized by the use of prestige utensils, such as porcelain, bone china or silver. The table is made to look its prettiest, with cloth napkins and matching cups and plates. In addition to tea, larger parties may provide punch, or in cold weather, hot chocolate. The tea is accompanied by a variety of foods that are easy to manage while in a sitting room: thin sandwiches, such as cucumber or tomato, cake slices, buns or rolls, cookies, biscuits and scones are all common.\n\nThe afternoon tea party was a feature of great houses in the Victorian and Edwardian ages in the United Kingdom and the Gilded Age in the United States, as well as in all continental Europe (France, Germany, and above all in the Russian Empire). The formal tea party still survives as a special event, as in the debutante teas of some affluent American communities.\n\nIn the older version, servants stayed outside the room until needed. Writing in 1922, Emily Post asserted that servants were never to enter the room unless rung for, to bring in fresh water and dishes or to remove used dishes. This was partly due to the rigidity of social convention at the time, but it also reflected the intimate nature of the afternoon tea. Proving the truth of 18th-century author Henry Fielding's quip that \"love and scandal are the best sweeteners of tea\", the custom of banning servants from the drawing room during tea shows the hostess's desire to encourage free conversation among her guests. Most of the formalities of that age have disappeared, particularly since World War II, when economic changes made household servants a rarity, but afternoon tea can still provide a good opportunity for intimate conversation and a refreshing light meal.\n\nA less formal large afternoon party for tea was known during the 18th and 19th centuries as a \"kettle drum\". A widespread but possibly false folk etymology suggests that the name \"kettle drum\" may have originated in the informal tea gatherings hosted by British camp officers' wives during East India Company rule or the British occupation of India, during which kettle drums are claimed to have served as tea tables in the camps. Alternatively, \"kettle drum\" may have been an amalgam of \"drum\" — 18th-century slang for a vivacious party — and \"kettle\" for the tea served. At kettle drums, guests traditionally came for short periods and left at will, mingled and conversed with little formality, and partook of tea, chocolate, lemonade, cakes, and sandwiches. Guests were expected to dress for ordinary daytime visiting, but not more formally.\n\nTea parties are also created by young children where the guests consist of stuffed animals, dolls, friends (both real and imaginary) and family members.\n\nIn the chapter \"A Mad Tea-Party\" in \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\", Alice becomes a guest at a tea party along with the March Hare, the Hatter, and a sleeping Dormouse who remains asleep for most of the chapter. The other characters give Alice many riddles and stories, including the famous 'Why is a raven like a writing desk?'. The Hatter reveals that they have tea all day because time has punished him by eternally standing still at 6 pm (tea time). Alice becomes insulted and tired of being bombarded with riddles and she leaves, claiming that it was the stupidest tea party that she had ever been to.\n\nYum cha is the Chinese equivalent of a tea party, though it is usually held in a restaurant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5938089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5938089", "title": "Unrooted Childhoods", "text": "Unrooted Childhoods\n\nUnrooted Childhoods: Memoirs of Growing up Global is a book of memoirs of people who grew up in multiple countries, or moving frequently between distant regions within the same country, also known as third culture kids, and is edited by Faith Eidse and Nina Sichel. It documents the life (including the unique challenges, feelings of difference/outsiderism, and gifts) of growing up in multiple nations, cultures, and language-regions by weaving the individual memoirs of notable and also unknown writers, notables include Eidse, Sichel, Isabel Allende, Marie Arana, Pat Conroy, Pico Iyer, and many others into one book. It was published in 2003.\n\nFaith Eidse is an award-winning writer and author. The recipient of the Kingsbury Award and nominated for the Bellwether Prize, she grew up in Congo/Zaire, Canada, and the United States. Nina Sichel, born in the U.S. and raised in Venezuela, is a writer, former editor and ESL teacher.\n\n\nThe literary review \"Booklist\" said that writings in the book \"including that by Isabel Allende, Ariel Dorfman, and Tara Bahrampour, and military brat Pat Conroy speak eloquently about the pain and also the riches of the search for home\". The same review was also somewhat critical of the wistful tone of some of the other writers.\n\n"}
{"id": "4512101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4512101", "title": "Watch system", "text": "Watch system\n\nA watch system, watch schedule, or watch bill is a method of assigning regular periods of work duty aboard ships and some other areas of employment. A watch system allows the ship's crew to operate the ship 24 hours a day for the duration of long voyages or operations.\n\nMany watch systems incorporate the concept of dogging, whereby one watch is split into two shorter watches so that there is an odd number each day. Doing so allows crew members to have a different watch schedule each day. Often, the dog watches are set at dinner time to allow the entire crew to be fed in short order.\n\nIn the traditional Royal Navy watch system (a system used by most other Commonwealth navies), 'watch' refers to a period of time and to a grouping of personnel. Those members of the crew whose work must be done at all times of the day – known as 'watch-keepers' – are assigned to one of two watches: the Starboard or the Port watch. These can be further divided into two parts, e.g. First Port, Second Starboard. These two watches – or more usually the four parts of watches – alternate in working the following watches:\n\n\nThe Royal Navy traditional submarine three watch system is 2 on 4 off during the day (8 a.m. to 8 p.m.) and 3 on 6 off during the night (8 p.m. to 8 a.m.).\nThe same arrangement of watch times can also be used with a crew divided into three sections. This gives each sailor more time off-duty, sometimes allowing sleeping periods of over seven hours. Names for the three watches—instead of Port and Starboard—vary from ship to ship. Naming schemes such as \"Foremast\", \"Mainmast\" and \"Mizzen\" and \"Red\", \"White\" and \"Blue\" are common.\nThe so-called \"five-and-dime\" arrangement splits the day into five-hour watches, with the exception of a four-hour watch from 22:00 to 02:00. \nThe \"Six-Hour-Shift\" splits the day in four 6-hour watches, permitting a three section crew to maximize rest time in a 3-day working cycle. Also, this watch systems takes into better account the meal times (of a 4 meal-a-day system), so that the ingoing team will be fed first, then stand watch, while the outgoing team will be relieved of watch, and then proceed to the messdeck.\n\nAboard United States submarines, the crew is typically divided into three sections, with each section standing 8 hours of watch followed by 16 hours off-watch. This schedule has been a fairly recent change to submariner work and rest routines. For nearly 45 years prior to 2015, submariners were on 18-hour days with 6 hours of watch followed by 12 hours off watch. The 12 hours off-watch were further divided into the first 6 hours being used for maintenance, cleaning, and entertainment; while the second 6 hours were usually for sleeping.\n\nNote that this arrangement resulted in one of the sections having two watches in one (24-hour) day, and there were no dog watches. Also, watch reliefs occurred no later than the bottom of the hour (2330, 0530, 1130, 1730). Typically, the first 30 minutes of the hour were used for the oncoming section to eat while the second 30 minutes of the hour were used for the off-going section to eat.\nSome warships now use the one-in-two system, also known as 7s and 5s, for the duration of the watches. This gives the sailors a longer sleeping period than the traditional two-watch system, while still maintaining the ability for the ship to function. Meals are generally scheduled around the watch turnovers at 0700, 1200, and 1700; sometimes a light midnight meal is provided for the 0000 turnover.\n\nVarious alternative watch schedules have been devised, which are typically referred to as Swedish watches. Although there is no standard for what constitutes a Swedish watch, the variations all feature some element of extended watches to accommodate longer time off. Like the traditional watch system, they begin at 2000 hours. Some popular variations have durations of 6, 6, 4, 4, 4 and 5, 5, 5, 5, 4.\n\nOn merchant ships, watchstanders typically stand watch for three periods of four consecutive hours. This system has a couple of advantages: it is easy to remember and it is consistent. For example, a member of watch team 1 will only have to remember that he is on the \"4–8\" watch, and knows that he goes on watch at 4 a.m. and 4 p.m. This scheme also allows inexperienced watchstanders to stand watch from 8–12 a.m. and 8–12 p.m., when senior watchstanders are likely to be awake and ready to assist in case of trouble. \n\nBy custom, in a ship with five deck officers the junior third mate takes the 8 to 12 watch, the senior third mate the 12 to 4 watch, and the second mate the 4 to 8 watch. This enables the second officer, who is the ship's navigator, to take morning and evening star sights. In ships with only four deck officers, the third officer will stand the 8 to 12, the second officer the 12 to 4, and the Chief Mate (equivalent to the Executive Officer in a navy ship) the 4 to 8 watch. The reason for this is to enable the Chief Mate to assign work to the deck gang before the ship's day begins, and to inspect it before going on watch at 1600 hours.\n\n\n\nHome Coming First AYC watch period shift system recommendation\n"}
{"id": "761974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761974", "title": "Wave power", "text": "Wave power\n\nWave power is the capture of energy of wind waves to do useful work – for example, electricity generation, water desalination, or pumping water. A machine that exploits wave power is a wave energy converter (WEC).\n\nWave power is distinct from tidal power, which captures the energy of the current caused by the gravitational pull of the Sun and Moon. Waves and tides are also distinct from ocean currents which are caused by other forces including breaking waves, wind, the Coriolis effect, cabbeling, and differences in temperature and salinity.\n\nWave-power generation is not a widely employed commercial technology, although there have been attempts to use it since at least 1890.\n\nIn 2000 the world's first commercial Wave Power Device, the Islay LIMPET was installed on the coast of Islay in Scotland and connected to the National Grid. In 2008, the first experimental multi-generator wave farm was opened in Portugal at the Aguçadoura Wave Park.\n\nWaves are generated by wind passing over the surface of the sea. As long as the waves propagate slower than the wind speed just above the waves, there is an energy transfer from the wind to the waves. Both air pressure differences between the upwind and the lee side of a wave crest, as well as friction on the water surface by the wind, making the water to go into the shear stress causes the growth of the waves.\n\nWave height is determined by wind speed, the duration of time the wind has been blowing, fetch (the distance over which the wind excites the waves) and by the depth and topography of the seafloor (which can focus or disperse the energy of the waves). A given wind speed has a matching practical limit over which time or distance will not produce larger waves. When this limit has been reached the sea is said to be \"fully developed\".\n\nIn general, larger waves are more powerful but wave power is also determined by wave speed, wavelength, and water density.\n\nOscillatory motion is highest at the surface and diminishes exponentially with depth. However, for standing waves (clapotis) near a reflecting coast, wave energy is also present as pressure oscillations at great depth, producing microseisms. These pressure fluctuations at greater depth are too small to be interesting from the point of view of wave power.\n\nThe waves propagate on the ocean surface, and the wave energy is also transported horizontally with the group velocity. The mean transport rate of the wave energy through a vertical plane of unit width, parallel to a wave crest, is called the wave energy flux (or wave power, which must not be confused with the actual power generated by a wave power device).\n\nIn deep water where the water depth is larger than half the wavelength, the wave energy flux is\n\nwith \"P\" the wave energy flux per unit of wave-crest length, \"H\" the significant wave height, \"T\" the wave energy period, \"ρ\" the water density and \"g\" the acceleration by gravity. The above formula states that wave power is proportional to the wave energy period and to the square of the wave height. When the significant wave height is given in metres, and the wave period in seconds, the result is the wave power in kilowatts (kW) per metre of wavefront length.\n\nExample: Consider moderate ocean swells, in deep water, a few km off a coastline, with a wave height of 3 m and a wave energy period of 8 seconds. Using the formula to solve for power, we get\n\nmeaning there are 36 kilowatts of power potential per meter of wave crest.\n\nIn major storms, the largest waves offshore are about 15 meters high and have a period of about 15 seconds. According to the above formula, such waves carry about 1.7 MW of power across each metre of wavefront.\n\nAn effective wave power device captures as much as possible of the wave energy flux. As a result, the waves will be of lower height in the region behind the wave power device.\n\nIn a sea state, the average(mean) energy density per unit area of gravity waves on the water surface is proportional to the wave height squared, according to linear wave theory:\n\nwhere \"E\" is the mean wave energy density per unit horizontal area (J/m), the sum of kinetic and potential energy density per unit horizontal area. The potential energy density is equal to the kinetic energy, both contributing half to the wave energy density \"E\", as can be expected from the equipartition theorem. In ocean waves, surface tension effects are negligible for wavelengths above a few decimetres.\n\nAs the waves propagate, their energy is transported. The energy transport velocity is the group velocity. As a result, the wave energy flux, through a vertical plane of unit width perpendicular to the wave propagation direction, is equal to:\n\nwith \"c\" the group velocity (m/s).\nDue to the dispersion relation for water waves under the action of gravity, the group velocity depends on the wavelength \"λ\", or equivalently, on the wave period \"T\". Further, the dispersion relation is a function of the water depth \"h\". As a result, the group velocity behaves differently in the limits of deep and shallow water, and at intermediate depths:\n\nDeep water corresponds with a water depth larger than half the wavelength, which is the common situation in the sea and ocean. In deep water, longer-period waves propagate faster and transport their energy faster. The deep-water group velocity is half the phase velocity. In shallow water, for wavelengths larger than about twenty times the water depth, as found quite often near the coast, the group velocity is equal to the phase velocity.\n\nThe first known patent to use energy from ocean waves dates back to 1799, and was filed in Paris by Girard and his son. An early application of wave power was a device constructed around 1910 by Bochaux-Praceique to light and power his house at Royan, near Bordeaux in France. It appears that this was the first oscillating water-column type of wave-energy device. From 1855 to 1973 there were already 340 patents filed in the UK alone.\n\nModern scientific pursuit of wave energy was pioneered by Yoshio Masuda's experiments in the 1940s. He tested various concepts of wave-energy devices at sea, with several hundred units used to power navigation lights. Among these was the concept of extracting power from the angular motion at the joints of an articulated raft, which was proposed in the 1950s by Masuda.\n\nA renewed interest in wave energy was motivated by the oil crisis in 1973. A number of university researchers re-examined the potential to generate energy from ocean waves, among whom notably were Stephen Salter from the University of Edinburgh, Kjell Budal and Johannes Falnes from Norwegian Institute of Technology (now merged into Norwegian University of Science and Technology), Michael E. McCormick from U.S. Naval Academy, David Evans from Bristol University, Michael French from University of Lancaster, Nick Newman and C. C. Mei from MIT.\n\nStephen Salter's 1974 invention became known as Salter's duck or \"nodding duck\", although it was officially referred to as the Edinburgh Duck. In small scale controlled tests, the Duck's curved cam-like body can stop 90% of wave motion and can convert 90% of that to electricity giving 81% efficiency.\n\nIn the 1980s, as the oil price went down, wave-energy funding was drastically reduced. Nevertheless, a few first-generation prototypes were tested at sea. More recently, following the issue of climate change, there is again a growing interest worldwide for renewable energy, including wave energy.\n\nThe world's first marine energy test facility was established in 2003 to kick-start the development of a wave and tidal energy industry in the UK. Based in Orkney, Scotland, the European Marine Energy Centre (EMEC) has supported the deployment of more wave and tidal energy devices than at any other single site in the world. EMEC provides a variety of test sites in real sea conditions. Its grid-connected wave test site is situated at Billia Croo, on the western edge of the Orkney mainland, and is subject to the full force of the Atlantic Ocean with seas as high as 19 metres recorded at the site. Wave energy developers currently testing at the centre include Aquamarine Power, Pelamis Wave Power, ScottishPower Renewables and Wello.\n\nWave power devices are generally categorized by the method used to capture the energy of the waves, by location and by the power take-off system. Locations are shoreline, nearshore and offshore. Types of power take-off include: hydraulic ram, elastomeric hose pump, pump-to-shore, hydroelectric turbine, air turbine, and linear electrical generator. When evaluating wave energy as a technology type, it is important to distinguish between the four most common approaches: point absorber buoys, surface attenuators, oscillating water columns, and overtopping devices.\n\nThis device floats on the surface of the water, held in place by cables connected to the seabed. The point-absorber is deﬁned as having a device width much smaller than the incoming wavelength λ. A good point absorber has the same characteristics as a good wave-maker. The wave energy is absorbed by radiating a wave with destructive interference to the incoming waves. Buoys use the rise and fall of swells to generate electricity in various ways including directly via linear generators, or via generators driven by mechanical linear-to-rotary converters or hydraulic pumps. EMF generated by electrical transmission cables and acoustics of these devices may be a concern for marine organisms. The presence of the buoys may affect fish, marine mammals, and birds as potential minor collision risk and roosting sites. Potential also exists for entanglement in mooring lines. Energy removed from the waves may also affect the shoreline, resulting in a recommendation that sites remain a considerable distance from the shore.\n\nThese devices act similarly to point absorber buoys, with multiple floating segments connected to one another and are oriented perpendicular to incoming waves. A flexing motion is created by swells that drive hydraulic pumps to generate electricity. Environmental effects are similar to those of point absorber buoys, with an additional concern that organisms could be pinched in the joints.\n\nThese devices typically have one end fixed to a structure or the seabed while the other end is free to move. Energy is collected from the relative motion of the body compared to the fixed point. Oscillating wave surge converters often come in the form of floats, flaps, or membranes. Environmental concerns include minor risk of collision, artificial reefing near the fixed point, EMF effects from subsea cables, and energy removal effecting sediment transport. Some of these designs incorporate parabolic reflectors as a means of increasing the wave energy at the point of capture. These capture systems use the rise and fall motion of waves to capture energy. Once the wave energy is captured at a wave source, power must be carried to the point of use or to a connection to the electrical grid by transmission power cables.\n\nOscillating Water Column devices can be located on shore or in deeper waters offshore. With an air chamber integrated into the device, swells compress air in the chambers forcing air through an air turbine to create electricity. Significant noise is produced as air is pushed through the turbines, potentially affecting birds and other marine organisms within the vicinity of the device. There is also concern about marine organisms getting trapped or entangled within the air chambers.\n\nOvertopping devices are long structures that use wave velocity to fill a reservoir to a greater water level than the surrounding ocean. The potential energy in the reservoir height is then captured with low-head turbines. Devices can be either on shore or floating offshore. Floating devices will have environmental concerns about the mooring system affecting benthic organisms, organisms becoming entangled, or EMF effects produced from subsea cables. There is also some concern regarding low levels of turbine noise and wave energy removal affecting the nearfield habitat.\n\nSubmerged pressure differential based converters are a comparatively newer technology utilizing flexible (usually reinforced rubber) membranes to extract wave energy. These converters use the difference in pressure at different locations below a wave to produce a pressure difference within a closed power take-off fluid system. This pressure difference is usually used to produce flow, which drives a turbine and electrical generator. Submerged pressure differential converters frequently use flexible membranes as the working surface between the ocean and the power take-off system. Membranes offer the advantage over rigid structures of being compliant and low mass, which can produce more direct coupling with the wave’s energy. Their compliant nature also allows for large changes in the geometry of the working surface, which can be used to tune the response of the converter for specific wave conditions and to protect it from excessive loads in extreme conditions.\n\nA submerged converter may be positioned either on the sea floor or in midwater. In both cases, the converter is protected from water impact loads which can occur at the free surface. Wave loads also diminish in non-linear proportion to the distance below the free surface. This means that by optimizing the depth of submergence for such a converter, a compromise between protection from extreme loads and access to wave energy can be found. Submerged WECs also have the potential to reduce the impact on marine amenity and navigation, as they are not at the surface. Examples of submerged pressure differential converters include M3 Wave, Bombora Wave Power's mWave, and CalWave.\n\nCommon environmental concerns associated with marine energy developments include:\n\n\nThe Tethys database provides access to scientific literature and general information on the potential environmental effects of wave energy.\n\nThe worldwide resource of coastal wave energy has been estimated to be greater than 2 TW.\nLocations with the most potential for wave power include the western seaboard of Europe, the northern coast of the UK, and the Pacific coastlines of North and South America, Southern Africa, Australia, and New Zealand. The north and south temperate zones have the best sites for capturing wave power. The prevailing westerlies in these zones blow strongest in winter.\n\nThere is a potential impact on the marine environment. Noise pollution, for example, could have negative impact if not monitored, although the noise and visible impact of each design vary greatly. Other biophysical impacts (flora and fauna, sediment regimes and water column structure and flows) of scaling up the technology are being studied. In terms of socio-economic challenges, wave farms can result in the displacement of commercial and recreational fishermen from productive fishing grounds, can change the pattern of beach sand nourishment, and may represent hazards to safe navigation. Waves generate about 2,700 gigawatts of power. Of those 2,700 gigawatts, only about 500 gigawatts can be captured with the current technology. Since 2008, Seabased Industry AB (SIAB) has deployed several units of wave energy converters (WECs) manufactured with different designs. Offshore deployments of WECs and underswater substation are being complicated procedures. SIAB discussed these deployments in terms of economy and time efficiency, as well as safety. Certain solutions are suggested for the various problems encountered during the deployments. It is found that the offshore deployment process can be optimized in terms of cost, time efficiency and safety.\n\nA group of wave energy devices deployed in the same location is called wave farm, wave power farm or wave energy park. Wave farms represent a solution to achieve larger electricity production. The devices of a park are going to interact with each other hydrodynamically and electrically, according to the number of machines, the distance among them, the geometric layout, the wave climate, the local geometry, the control strategies. The design process of a wave energy farm is a multi-optimization problem with the aim to get a high power production and low costs and power fluctuations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
