{"id": "14621054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14621054", "title": "1998 Sydney water crisis", "text": "1998 Sydney water crisis\n\nThe 1998 Sydney water crisis involved the suspected contamination by the microscopic pathogens \"cryptosporidium\" and \"giardia\" of the water supply system of Greater Metropolitan Sydney, between July and September 1998.\n\nFollowing routine water sampling and testing, over a series of weeks low level contaminates were found at Prospect, , Sydney Hospital, the NSW Art Gallery, Macquarie Street, Centennial Park, , , , and water treatment facilities at Warragamba, Nepean, , , Woronora, Macarthur, the Illawarra and Prospect. The reliability of these test results was subsequently called into doubt. Precautionary \"boil water\" alerts were raised covering several suburban areas for the period of the crisis.\n\nIn response to the crisis, the Government of New South Wales established a Commission of Inquiry, chaired by jurist Peter McClellan as Commissioner. McClennan handed down his final report to the NSW Premier making ninetyone recommendations that led to the reorganisation of water supply and water management functions and agencies in Greater Metropolitan Sydney via the establishment of the Sydney Catchment Authority with responsibility for catchments, dams, and bulk supply reservoirs; while Sydney Water maintained management of water supply distribution, water treatment and sewerage, and stormwater management. Both the Chairman and Managing Director of Sydney Water stood down during and following the crisis.\n\n, Sydney Water supplied approximately of water each day to more than 3.8 million people in the Sydney, Blue Mountains and Illawarra regions. A network of nine major dams plus several minor storage reservoirs was used to collect and store water which, in turn, was delivered to a network of over of water mains, 165 pumping stations and 261 service reservoirs. The water supply was drawn from catchments on four main river systems the Upper Nepean, the Warragamba, the Shoalhaven and the Woronora with minor supplies drawn from the Hawkesbury River, and tributaries of the Grose, Fish and Duckmaloi rivers.\n\nSince late 1996 all of Sydney's water supply has been filtered. Eleven water treatment plants are used to filter drinking water supplied to Sydney, Illawarra and the Blue Mountains. Seven of these facilities are owned and operated by Sydney Water. These are located at Orchard Hills, Cascade, North Richmond, Nepean, Warragamba, and Greaves Creek. The remaining four privately owned and operated plants at Prospect, Macarthur, Illawarra and Woronora provide filtered water under contract to Sydney Water. These four plants provide more than 90% of Sydney's drinking water. Up to 80% is supplied through the Prospect plant alone. The water is distributed from Prospect to Pipe Head by tunnels and mains, with some areas supplied directly from these mains. From Pipe Head, water for the inner city, suburbs south of Sydney Harbour and inner western suburbs is carried by tunnel and mains to two large service reservoirs at Potts Hill and then by two tunnels (the Pressure Tunnel and City Tunnel) which terminate at and Dowling Street pumping stations. Two pumping stations one at Prospect and one at supply water for the northern suburbs and the northern beaches. The water for Ryde is supplied from Pipe Head.\n\nLow levels of cryptosporidium and giardia were first detected in the water supply on 21 July. The levels were within acceptable health limits. In days following, much higher levels were recorded, and on 27 July the first \"boil water\" alert (in which residents were instructed to boil their tap water before use) was declared for the eastern Sydney central business district. On 29 July a \"boil water\" alert was issued for the south of Sydney Harbour and on 30 July a Sydney-wide \"boil water\" alert was issued.\n\nThe Sydney Water Corporation announced the water safe to drink again on 4 August.\n\nThe contamination was caused by low-quality raw water entering the dam. This was attributed to moderate rainfall in July, followed by heavy rainfall in August and September (after decreasing storage levels since mid-July 1997) which caused pulses of the raw water to enter the dam.\n\nThe incident was highly publicised and caused major public alarm. Three successive \"boil water\" notices in which residents were instructed to boil their tap water before use affected up to three million residents.\n\nThe lack of cases of cryptosporidiosis, giardiasis or any other health problem which might be attributed to tainted water led to suggestions the microbes were either not an infectious type, or not as prevalent as measured. An inquiry after the event revealed the publicity as an exaggeration of fact, with Australian Water Technologies, part of Sydney Water, severely overestimating levels of cryptosporidium and giardia present in the water, with the recorded levels exposed as not harmful to human health. The handling of the crisis by Sydney Water, a state-government owned corporation since 1995, was heavily criticised, causing the resignation of both the Chairman and the Managing Director and bringing up issues of private vs. public ownership and scientific uncertainty.\n\nThe Premier, Bob Carr, established the Sydney Water Inquiry and appointed Sydney jurist Peter McClellan as Commissioner. McClellan delivered a series of interim reports to the Premier, which were tabled in Parliament. The final report was delivered in December 1998 and detailed 91 recommendations for action by Sydney Water, NSW Health and other state and federal government agencies, including the National Health and Medical Research Commission.\n\nThe Chairman of Sydney Water, David Hill resigned ten days after the final crisis event, denied any responsibility, and claimed he was leaving only to concentrate on his political career.\n\nThe Sydney Catchment Authority was created in 1999 as result of the crisis, assuming control of Sydney's catchments and dams, while Sydney Water maintained responsibility for water treatment and distribution and for sewage collection, treatment and disposal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27888998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27888998", "title": "AIDS Services of Austin", "text": "AIDS Services of Austin\n\nAIDS Services of Austin (ASA) is a non-profit AIDS service organization that addresses HIV and AIDS in Central Texas. Founded in 1987, ASA is the region’s oldest and largest community-based organization addressing the local AIDS crisis. Annually, they provide direct care services to over 1,500 people and HIV prevention education to over 10,000 people.\n\nThe first HIV case in Austin was reported in the summer of 1983, known at the time as GRID, or Gay-Related Immune Deficiency. In the first months of the outbreak, there was no local organization dedicated to the quickly growing crisis. In August 1983, Paul Clover founded the Waterloo Counseling Center to serve the gay community through queer-positive, affordable mental health services. The Austin AIDS Project was started at Waterloo but would grow, in just four years, to the point where an organization dedicated to AIDS was needed.\n\nIn 1987 the Austin AIDS Project was incorporated as AIDS Services of Austin. Throughout ASA’s history, volunteers have been instrumental to its growth. One of the volunteer groups formed was the Rubber Fairies, a group which distributed condoms and provided safer sex education. Their efforts garnered praise in an article on Splash Days in a July 1988 issue of The Advocate, a national news magazine reporting on the LGBT community.\n\nAnother volunteer organization, the Octopus Club, was organized by Lew Aldridge in 1987. The Octopus Club raises funds through events such as ArtErotica, OctoTea Dance and the Oscar Parties for ASA’s Paul Kirby Emergency Relief Fund.\n\nIn the fall of 1986, the Texas Commissioner of Health proposed quarantining gay men suspected of having HIV and AIDS. Glen Maxey from the Austin AIDS Project organized medical experts to testify before the Texas Legislature against quarantine. On the day the quarantine proposal was withdrawn, Maxey stepped onto the steps of the Texas Department of Health to a throng of cameras. Interviewed by Dan Rather for the CBS Evening News, Maxey was outed as a gay activist. He would go on to become the first openly gay legislator in Texas, landing the first state funding earmark for community-based AIDS service organizations.\n\nIn response to the unique legal issues faced by people living with HIV and AIDS, ASA started the Capital Area AIDS Legal Project, or CAALP, in 1990, primarily to provide wills and other life-planning documents. Their objectives have changed with the epidemic, and today CAALP offers a full array of pro bono legal services to people living with HIV and AIDS.\n\nWith the advent of life-prolonging antiretroviral drug therapies, people with HIV were living longer. Pervasive fear of infection remained, but people now needed long-term care and services. Fear and discrimination caused some physicians, especially dentists, to refuse medical and dental treatment to people living with HIV. In response, in 1992 ASA founded the Jack Sansing Dental Clinic, which still provides quality, affordable dental care.\n\nCase management seeks to assist persons who have difficulty accessing or remaining in primary medical care and for delivering and coordinating HIV and other supportive services. Case management facilitates continuity of care by coordinating client access to an array of services, such as primary medical care, access to health insurance, help with daily living skills, housing, transportation, financial assistance, psychosocial and spiritual support, vocational and educational training and services, mental health programs, substance abuse treatment and legal assistance.\n\nThe Helping Hands Food Bank empowers people living with HIV and AIDS with the tools to help manage their health through a nutritious diet that is custom tailored to their unique needs. Beyond food, this program offers personal and household hygiene items. The grocery program is open to clients twice a month and serves 450 individuals annually.\n\nMedical Nutrition Therapy, furnished by a licensed and registered dietitian, is available to clients at high risk. This one-on-one treatment involves individualized, in-depth care provided over time, especially nutritional counseling, provision of nutritional supplements, and education.\n\nASA’s TLC program offers free HIV testing services, counseling, and connections to needed community resources. It is designed to assist individuals in evaluating how their behavior may put them at risk for HIV infection and provide a safe, compassionate, and resource-rich space to discuss challenges and successes in reducing their risk.\n\nASA’s Jack Sansing Dental Clinic provides routine and emergency dental care for people living with HIV and AIDS. This includes oral examination, treatment planning, oral surgery, root canal treatment, periodontal therapy, restorative dentistry, removable prosthodontics, treatment of infection and preventative oral health care.\n\nFor those with suppressed immune systems due to HIV or AIDS, proper dental care is of the utmost importance.\n\nA volunteer-based organization, CAALP provides free legal assistance to individuals affected by HIV/AIDS whose income is at or below 125% of the federal poverty guidelines. Since 1990, CAALP has helped more than 3,000 people living with HIV in central Texas.\n\nThrough referrals to local volunteer attorneys in the community, CAALP undertakes to assist people with a broad range of civil legal issues, including but not limited to, life planning, insurance, discrimination, confidentiality, immigration, public benefits, landlord-tenant disputes, probate and family law.\n\nASA provides emergency relief for individuals when no other sources of funding exist. The Paul Kirby Emergency Relief Fund is the last resort for case managers to assist clients, with much of the funding going for essentials like food, utilities, rent and prescription medication.\n\nPaul Kirby was one of Austin AIDS Project’s earliest volunteers. He started AAP’s first newsletter, helped organize one of the first support groups for people living with HIV and AIDS and was one of ASA’s founding board members. The vast majority of the Fund is thanks to the Octopus Club, an all-volunteer, grassroots organization dedicated to making a difference through raising money for the Fund.\n\nComprehensive Risk & Counseling Services, commonly known as the PATH Program, provides individual and couples counseling to reduce the transmission of HIV. PATH primarily serves people living with HIV and AIDS, but is also open to HIV- people who report high risk of acquiring the virus. PATH is a harm reduction counseling program, meaning that PATH counselors assess each individual’s readiness for change and clients guide the process by identifying problems and goals to address those problems.\n\nThe Q is an Mpowerment Project of AIDS Services of Austin, making a difference in the lives of young gay, bisexual, and questioning men ages 18 – 29. The Mpowerment Project can reach large numbers of young gay/bisexual men in a cost effective manner because it is a community level intervention.\nWithin The Q Austin space, community partners help create a safe space for Austin’s LGBTQIA communities of ALL AGES by organizing events and outreach. Through this support, the message of safer sex practices and well-being can reach a larger audience while raising awareness for the Q and its mission.\n\nThe Project is dedicated to strengthening women through programs and activities that provide education, connection, support, advocacy and peer leadership opportunities. The Project was founded in 1995.\n\nAIDS Walk Austin began as From All Walks of Life in 1988 and is ASA's oldest continuous fundraiser. The AIDS Walk is a 5k walk through downtown Austin, TX and includes speeches, music and remembrance. In recent years, it has also featured panels from the AIDS Memorial Quilt.\n\nSince 1992, ASA has hosted Dining Out for Life to directly benefit their mission to enhance the health and well-being of Central Texans affected by HIV and AIDS. In 2015, Dining Out for Life raised $4.23 million nationally to provide vital services to people living with HIV and AIDS. All money raised for AIDS Services of Austin's Dining Out for Life event stays local.\n\nViva, also known as Viva Las Vegas, is an ASA fundraiser that traditionally features faux gambling. In 2009, the event began featuring a fashion show, labeled by Austin American-Statesman social columnist Michael Barnes as the \"Best Austin fashion show ever.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "57340211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57340211", "title": "Amin Wahbi", "text": "Amin Wahbi\n\nAmin Wahbi () is a Lebanese Shia politician and cardiologist. He was born in 1952. In 2004 he became one of the founding leaders of the Democratic Left Movement. He was elected to parliament in the Lebanese general election, 2009.\n"}
{"id": "58825967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58825967", "title": "AskMyGP", "text": "AskMyGP\n\naskMyGP is an online general practitioner consultation platform launched in 2011 by GP Access Ltd, based in Leicestershire. \n\nIt aims to improve patient access to healthcare and cut down on unnecessary appointments. The company claims only 30% of patients seeking help need a face-to-face appointment. It gives patients the option of submitting a symptom-related questionnaire online to a GP. In January 2018 it was said to have managed 29,000 patient episodes in a dozen practices.\n\nA pilot scheme backed by the Health and Social Care Board was introduced in Northern Ireland in 2016. This gave patients the option of explaining their symptoms to a receptionist by telephone or completing the same questionnaire on line themselves. 70% of the patients at a Falls Road, Belfast practice said it was an improvement. The algorithm gives GPs more information about the patient’s ailment than the traditional eight-to-10-minute face-to-face consultation.\n\nIt was introduced to the Riverside Group Practice in Portadown in 2016. The chair of the British Medical Association's Northern Ireland GP committee, said: \"We introduced AskmyGP nine months ago at the practice where I work and there were complaints during the first two weeks while everyone got used to it, but now all the patients love it.\" When tried at a practice in Ipswich it wasn’t favoured by all the staff at the surgery, but it was reported that \"The ability to signpost to the free NHS physiotherapy self-referral service saves face to face surgery appointments.”\n\nA single-handed GP with almost 5,000 patients in Shotts, Lanarkshire signed up to it when she could not recruit partners to the practice. 60-70% of patients now use it and this has enabled the practice to expand without recruiting another doctor as the work can now be managed by a multidisciplinary team of advanced nurse practitioner, advanced practice physiotherapist, mental health worker and nurses skilled in long-term management. \n"}
{"id": "7434160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7434160", "title": "Bethor", "text": "Bethor\n\nBethor is an Olympian spirit in the Grimoire known as the \"Arbatel de magia veterum\". He rules over Jupiter.\n"}
{"id": "30322163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30322163", "title": "Body-centred countertransference", "text": "Body-centred countertransference\n\nBody-centred countertransference involves a psychotherapist's experiencing the physical state of the patient in a clinical context. Also known as somatic countertransference, it can incorporate the therapist's gut feelings, as well as changes to breathing, to heart rate and to tension in muscles.\n\nDance therapy has understandably given much weight to the concept of somatic countertransference. Jungian James Hillman also emphasised the importance of the therapist using the body as a sounding-board in the clinical context.\n\nPost-Reichian therapies like bioenergetic analysis have also stressed the role of the body-centered countertransference.\n\nThere is some evidence that narcissistic patients and those suffering from Borderline personality disorder create more intense embodied countertransferences in their therapists, their personalities favouring such non-verbal communication by impact over more verbalised, less somatic interactions.\n\nSusie Orbach has written emotively of what she described as \"wildcat sensations in my own body...a wildcat countertransference\" in the context of body countertransference. She details her role responsiveness to one patient who evoked in her what she called \"an unfamiliar body experience...this purring, reliable and solid body\" to counterbalance the fragmented body image of the patient herself.\n\nIrish psychologists at NUI Galway and University College Dublin have recently begun to measure body-centred countertransference in female trauma therapists using their recently developed 'Egan and Carr Body-Centred Countertransference Scale' (2005), a sixteen symptom measure. \n\nTheir research was influenced by developments in the psychotherapy world which was beginning to see a therapist's role in a therapeutic dyad as reflexive; that a therapist uses their bodies and 'self' as a tuning fork to understand their client's internal experience and to use this attunement as another way of being empathic with a client's internal world. Pearlman and Saakvitne's seminal book on vicarious traumatization and the effect of trauma work on therapists has also been an important directional model for all researchers studying the physical effects of trauma work on a therapist. \n\nHigh levels of body-centred countertransference have since been found in both Irish female trauma therapists and clinical psychologists. This phenomenon is also known as 'somatic countertransference' or 'embodied countertransference' and it links to how mirror neurons might lead to 'unconscious automatic somatic countertransference' as a result of postural mirroring by the therapist. \n\nLoughran (2002) found that 38 therapists out of 40 who had responded to a questionnaire (which was distributed to a sample of 124 therapists) on a therapist's use of body as a medium for transference and countertransference communication reported that they had experienced bodily sensations (nausea or churning stomach, sleepiness, shakiness, heart palpitations, sexual excitement, etc.) while in session with patients.\n\nA list of the frequency of occurrence of body-centred countertransference symptoms reported by trauma therapists (Sample A: 35 Female Irish Trauma therapists) and Irish clinical psychologists (Sample B: 87 Irish Clinical Psychologists)in the previous six months 'when in-session with a client' is given below in order of frequency:\n\nA small but significant relationship was found between female trauma therapists' level of body-centred countertransference and number of sick leave days taken, suggesting a possible relationship between uncensored body-centred countertransference and somatization. This relationship was not however found in clinical psychologists who were working mainly with a non-trauma population. Therapists have noted the connection between a tendency for some clients to express emotional discomfort by focusing on bodily symptoms rather than being able to put their emotional distress into words. It is thought that such processes are more common in people who have experienced childhood abuse and trauma. \n\nRecent research which measured female genital arousal in response to rape cues found that women when listening to rape, consent or violence developed genital arousal more frequently than men. It also might explain the relatively frequent reported experience of sexual arousal amongst Irish female trauma therapists. Further validation of body-centred countertransference in psychologists and therapists is on-going in both NUI Galway and Trinity College Dublin.\n\nTherapists have been warned against assuming too automatically that their body-feelings always involve somatic resonance to the client, as opposed to being produced from their own feelings/experiences - the same problem appearing with countertransference generally.\n\nKate White ed., \"Touch: Attachment and the Body\" (2004)\n\nL. A Pearlman/K. W. Saakvitne, \"Trauma and the Therapist\"\n\nRobert Shaw, \"The Embodied Psychotherapist\" (2003)\n\nMichael Soth, 'Embodied countertransference'\n\nNick Totton ed., 'Embodied countertransference'\n"}
{"id": "49229542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49229542", "title": "Bundoo", "text": "Bundoo\n\nBundoo is a parenting website that publishes articles on pregnancy, pediatrics, and parenting and provides an ask-the-doctor service through Ask Bundoo. Bundoo’s target audience is expecting parents and parents. The site’s beta version went live in summer 2013, followed by the full site roll-out in January 2014.\n\nBundoo was created by Lewis Warshauer, MD, a retired radiologist. The company is privately held and headquartered in Boca Raton, Florida.\n\nIn 2015, Bundoo named Stephanie Winans CEO. Winans was previously COO and comes from a background in radio and media.\n\nIn November 2016, Bundoo was acquired by The Wellness Network.\n\nBundoo developed its Mission Statement in July 2015:\n\n\"Bundoo is an online resource that educates and engages expecting and new parents in a conversation about the issues that matter to them most. Bundoo provides evidence-based information and makes it easy for parents to personally interact with doctors and parenting experts.\"\n\nBundoo publishes original articles, interviews, and videos on pregnancy and parenting issues. All of the company’s core content is reviewed or written by a doctor or qualified parenting professional. Bundoo also answers parenting and pregnancy questions directly through a telehealth component.\n\nIn 2015, Bundoo was named a honoree in the Webby Awards in the Parenting category. Bundoo was also named a Silver award winner in the 2014 W Awards for excellence in web design, sponsored by the Academy of Interactive and Visual Arts. The company has been featured in various publications, including \"Marketing Sherpa\", for its successful use of third-party platforms to improve site metrics.\n\nThe website has been featured in a variety of media, including newspapers, magazines, web sites, and television programs. Articles featuring Bundoo experts or profiles of the site were published by the \"Huffington Post\", Fox News, the \"New York Times\", the \"South-Florida Sun Sentinel\", Scholastic \"Parent & Child\", and local television and radio stations in Canada and the United States.\n"}
{"id": "56289261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56289261", "title": "Cannabis in Kuwait", "text": "Cannabis in Kuwait\n\nCannabis in Kuwait is illegal. \n\nUse and possession for personal use of cannabis can result in two years in jail plus fines. Punishment for drug-related crimes can be severe, up to and including the death penalty.\n\nCannabis and other drugs are transshipped from Afghanistan through Iran, to Kuwait, then to Europe.\n"}
{"id": "52356269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52356269", "title": "Cannabis in the United Arab Emirates", "text": "Cannabis in the United Arab Emirates\n\nCannabis in the United Arab Emirates is illegal. Even the smallest amounts of the drug can lead to a mandatory four-year prison sentence.\n\nThe UAE is not a significant cannabis producer or consumer, but is a major transshipment point for cannabis from Pakistan and Afghanistan, due to its free ports and heterogeneous population.\n"}
{"id": "25816865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25816865", "title": "Capital punishment in Venezuela", "text": "Capital punishment in Venezuela\n\nCapital punishment is abolished in Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. \n\nVenezuela was the first country (still existing) in the world to abolish the death penalty for all crimes, doing so by Constitution in 1863. San Marino had abolished the death penalty for ordinary crimes only in 1848, but abolished it for all crimes in 1865.\n\nCosta Rica followed suit in 1877, making Venezuela one of just three countries to have abolished the death penalty by 1900.\n"}
{"id": "35057201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35057201", "title": "Cardiothoracic Center of Monaco", "text": "Cardiothoracic Center of Monaco\n\nThe Cardiothoracic Center of Monaco (CCM) is a hospital which specializes in cardiovascular and thoracic diseases.\n\nEnvisioned in 1978, the Cardiothoracic Center of Monaco opened its doors in April 1987. With support from Monegasque authorities, the CCM was designed to address the shortage of beds in cardiology in the PACA region, but also to offer patients from all around the Mediterranean cutting-edge equipment. This small hospital is managed by Professor V. Dor, Dr JJ Pastor and G. Nervo. Since 2010, Gilles Dreyfus is the medical director.\n\nThe CCM has been used for humanitarian purposes. In 2010, CCM was nominated by Siemens to be the first Siemens European Reference Center Cardiovascular Medicine.\n"}
{"id": "17337559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17337559", "title": "Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters", "text": "Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters\n\nThe Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters (CRED) is a research unit of the Université catholique de Louvain (UCL). It is situated at the School of Public Health of the Brussels campus of the university.\n\nCRED has been active for over thirty years in the fields of international disaster and conflict health studies, with research and training activities linking relief, rehabilitation and development. It promotes research, training and technical expertise on humanitarian emergencies, with a special focus on public health and epidemiology.\n\nIn 1971, Professor Michel F. Lechat, an epidemiologist at the Université catholique de Louvain, initiated a research programme to study health issues in disaster situations. Two years later he established CRED as a non-profit institution with international status. Since 1980, CRED has been a World Health Organization (WHO) Collaborating Centre.\n\nFollowing the retirement of Professor Lechat in 1992, Professor Debarati Guha-Sapir—a researcher in the programme since 1984—became CRED's director.\n\nCRED promotes research and provides an evidence base to the international community on the burden of disease and related health issues arising from disasters and conflicts to improve preparedness and responses to humanitarian emergencies.\n\nCRED trains field managers, students, relief personnel and health professionals in the management of short- and long-term humanitarian emergencies.\n\nCRED’s research focuses on humanitarian and emergency situations with major impacts on human health. These include all types of natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, windstorms, famines and droughts; and human induced disasters creating mass displacement of people from civil strife and conflicts. \nCRED focuses on health aspects and the burden of disease arising from disasters and complex emergencies. CRED also promotes research on the broader aspects of humanitarian crises, such as human rights and humanitarian law, socio-economic and environmental issues, early warning systems, mental health care, and the special needs of women and children.\n\nCRED is actively involved in stimulating debates on the effectiveness of various humanitarian interventions. It encourages scientific and policy discussions on existing and potential interventions and their impacts on acute and chronic malnutrition, human survival, morbidity, infectious diseases, and mental health.\n\nThe CRED team works in four main areas:\n\nCRED’s multinational and multidisciplinary team includes experts in medicine and public health, informatics and database management, psychology, nutritional sciences, sociology, economics and geography. The working languages are English and French.\n\n"}
{"id": "51303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51303", "title": "Cowpox", "text": "Cowpox\n\nCowpox is an infectious disease caused by the cowpox virus. The virus, part of the orthopoxvirus genus, is closely related to the \"vaccinia\" virus. The virus is zoonotic, meaning that it is transferable between species, such as from animal to human. The transferral of the disease was first observed in dairymaids who touched the udders of infected cows and consequently developed the signature pustules on their hands. Cowpox is more commonly found in animals other than bovines, such as rodents. Cowpox is similar to, but much milder than, the highly contagious and often deadly smallpox disease. Its close resemblance to the mild form of smallpox and the observation that dairy farmers were immune from smallpox inspired the first smallpox vaccine, created and administered by English physician Edward Jenner.\n\nThe word “vaccination,” coined by Jenner in 1796, is derived from the Latin root \"vaccinus\", meaning of or from the cow. Once vaccinated, a patient develops antibodies that make them immune to cowpox, but they also develop immunity to the smallpox virus, or \"Variola virus\". The cowpox vaccinations and later incarnations proved so successful that in 1980, the World Health Organization announced that smallpox was the first disease to be eradicated by vaccination efforts worldwide. Other orthopox viruses remain prevalent in certain communities and continue to infect humans, such as the cowpox virus (CPXV) in Europe, vaccinia in Brazil, and monkeypox virus in Central and West Africa.\n\nNaturally occurring cases of cowpox were not common, but it was discovered that the vaccine could be “carried” in humans and reproduced and disseminated human-to-human. Jenner's original vaccination used lymph from the cowpox pustule on a milkmaid, and subsequent “arm-to-arm” vaccinations applied the same principle. As this transfer of human fluids came with its own set of complications, a safer manner of producing the vaccine was first introduced in Italy, The new method used cows to manufacture the vaccine using a process called “retrovaccination,” in which a heifer was inoculated with humanized cowpox virus, and it was passed from calf to calf to produce massive quantities efficiently and safely. This then led to the next incarnation, “true animal vaccine,” which used the same process but began with naturally-occurring cowpox virus, and not the humanized form.\n\nThis method of production proved to be lucrative and was taken advantage of by many entrepreneurs needing only calves and seed lymph from an infected cow to manufacture crude versions of the vaccine. W. F. Elgin of the National Vaccine Establishment presented his slightly refined technique to the Conference of State and Provincial Boards of Health of North America. A tuberculosis-free calf, stomach shaved, would be bound to an operating table, where incisions would be made on its lower body. Glycerinated lymph from a previously inoculated calf was spread along the cuts. After a few days, the cuts would have scabbed or crusted over. The crust was softened with sterilized water and mixed with glycerin, which disinfected it, then stored hermetically-sealed in capillary tubes for later use.\n\nAt some point, the virus in use was no longer cowpox, but vaccinia. Scientists have not determined exactly when the change or mutation occurred, but the effects of vaccinia and cowpox virus as vaccine are nearly the same.\n\nThe virus is found in Europe, and mainly in the UK. Human cases today are very rare and most often contracted from domestic cats. The virus is not commonly found in cattle; the reservoir hosts for the virus are woodland rodents, particularly voles. From these rodents, domestic cats contract and transmit the virus to humans.\nSymptoms in cats include lesions on the face, neck, forelimbs, and paws, and less commonly upper respiratory tract infections. Symptoms of infection with cowpox virus in humans are localized, pustular lesions generally found on the hands and limited to the site of introduction. The incubation period is 9 to 10 days. The virus is prevalent in late summer and autumn.\n\nIn the years from 1770 to 1790, at least six people who had contact with a cow had independently tested the possibility of using the cowpox vaccine as an immunization for smallpox in humans. Amongst them were the English farmer Benjamin Jesty, in Dorset in 1774 and the German teacher Peter Plett in 1791. Jesty inoculated his wife and two young sons with cowpox, in a successful effort to immunize them to smallpox, an epidemic of which had arisen in their town. His patients who had contracted and recovered from the similar but milder cowpox (mainly milkmaids), seemed to be immune not only to further cases of cowpox, but also to smallpox. By scratching the fluid from cowpox lesions into the skin of healthy individuals, he was able to immunize those people against smallpox. Reportedly, farmers and people working regularly with cattle and horses were often spared during smallpox outbreaks. Investigations by the British Army in 1790 showed that horse-mounted troops were less infected by smallpox than infantry, due to probable exposure to the similar horse pox virus (\"Variola equina\"). By the early 19th century, more than 100,000 people in Great Britain had been vaccinated. The arm-to-arm method of transfer of the cowpox vaccine was also used to distribute Jenner's vaccine throughout the Spanish Empire. Spanish king Charles IV's daughter had been stricken with smallpox in 1798, and after she recovered, he arranged for the rest of his family to be vaccinated. In 1803, the king, convinced of the benefits of the vaccine, ordered his personal physician Francis Xavier de Balmis, to deliver it to the Spanish dominions in North and South America. To maintain the vaccine in an available state during the voyage, the physician recruited 22 young boys who had never had cowpox or smallpox before, aged three to nine years, from the orphanages of Spain. During the trip across the Atlantic, de Balmis vaccinated the orphans in a living chain. Two children were vaccinated immediately before departure, and when cowpox pustules had appeared on their arms, material from these lesions was used to vaccinate two more children.\n\nIn 1796, British medical practitioner Edward Jenner tested the theory that cowpox could protect someone from being infected by smallpox. Although cowpox originates on the udder of cows, Jenner took his sample from a milkmaid, Sarah Nelmes. Jenner extracted the pus of one of the lesions formed by cowpox on Nelmes to another individual who never had smallpox, James Phipps. He eventually developed a scab and fever that was manageable. Approximately six weeks later, Jenner then introduced an active sample of the smallpox virus into Phipps to test the theory. After being observed for an extended amount of time, it was recorded that Phipps did not receive a reaction from it. Although Jenner was not the first person to conceive the notion of cowpox protecting against the smallpox virus, his experiment proved the theory. This vaccination worked temporarily. It was later discovered that the cowpox vaccination only worked temporarily against the invasion of smallpox and the procedure would need to be repeated several times through ones' lifetime to remain smallpox free. In later years, Jenner popularized the experiment, calling it a vaccination from the Latin for cow, vacca. The amount of vaccinations among people of that era increased drastically. It was widely considered to be a relatively safer procedure compared to the mainstream inoculation. Although Jenner was propelled into the spotlight from the vaccination popularity, he mainly focused on science behind why the cowpox allowed persons to not be infected by smallpox.The honor of the discovery of the vaccination is widely accepted to be given to Benjamin Jesty. He is considered to be the first to use cowpox as a vaccination, though the term vaccination was not invented yet. During the midst of the smallpox outbreak, Jesty transferred pieces of cow udder which he knew had been infected with cowpox into the skin of his family members in the hopes of protecting them. Jesty did not publicize his findings, and Jenner, who performed his first inoculation 22 years later and publicized his findings, assumed credit. It is said that Jenner made this discovery by himself, possibly without knowing previous accounts 20 years earlier. Although Jesty may have been the first to discover it, Jenner made vaccination widely accessible and has therefore been credited for its invention.\n\nThe majority of the population at the time accepted the up-and-coming vaccination. However, there were still opposition from individuals who were reluctant to change from the inoculations. In addition, there became a growing concern from parties who were worried about the unknown repercussions of infecting a human with an animal disease. One way individuals expressed their discontent was to draw comics that sometimes depicted small cows growing from the sites of vaccination. Others publicly advocated for the continuance of the inoculations; however this was not because of their discontent for the vaccinations. Some of their reluctance had to do with an apprehensiveness for change. They had become so familiar with the process, outcome, positives, and negatives of inoculations that they did not want to be surprised by the outcome or effects of the vaccinations. Jenner soon eased their minds after extensive trials. However, others advocated against vaccinations for different reason. Because of the high price of inoculation, Jenner experienced very few common folk who were not willing to accept the vaccination. Due to this, Jenner found many subjects for his tests. He was able to publish his results in a pamphlet in 1798: \"An Inquiry into the Causes and Effects of Variolae Vaccinae, a Disease, Discovered in some of the Western Counties of England particularly Gloucestershire, and known by the Name of Cow Pox.\"\n\nAfter inoculation, vaccination using the cowpox virus became the primary defense against smallpox. After infection by the cowpox virus, the body (usually) gains the ability to recognize the similar smallpox virus from its antigens and is able to fight the smallpox disease much more efficiently.\n\nThe cowpox virus contains 186 thousand base pairs of DNA, which contains the information for about 187 genes. This makes cowpox one of the most complicated viruses known. Some 100 of these genes give instructions for key parts of the human immune system, giving a clue as to why the closely related smallpox is so lethal. The vaccinia virus now used for smallpox vaccination is sufficiently different from the cowpox virus found in the wild as to be considered a separate virus.\n\nWhile the vaccination's popularity increased exponentially, so did its monetary value. This was realized by the British Parliament, which compensated Jenner 10,000 pounds for the vaccination. In addition, they later compensated Jenner an additional 20,000 pounds. In the coming years, Jenner continued advocacy for his vaccination over the still popular inoculation. Eventually, in 1840, the inoculation became banned in England and was replaced with the cowpox vaccination as the main medical solution to combat smallpox. The cowpox vaccination saved the British Army thousands of soldiers, by making them immune to the effects of smallpox in upcoming wars. The cowpox also saved the United Kingdom thousands of pounds.\n\nKinepox is an alternative term for the smallpox vaccine used in early 19th-century America. Popularized by Jenner in the late 1790s, kinepox was a far safer method for inoculating people against smallpox than the previous method, variolation, which had a 3% fatality rate.\n\nIn a famous letter to Meriwether Lewis in 1803, Thomas Jefferson instructed the Lewis and Clark expedition to \"carry with you some matter of the kine-pox; inform those of them with whom you may be, of its efficacy as a preservative from the smallpox; & encourage them in the use of it...\" Jefferson had developed an interest in protecting Native Americans from smallpox, having been aware of epidemics along the Missouri River during the previous century. A year before his special instructions to Lewis, Jefferson had persuaded a visiting delegation of North American Indian chieftains to be vaccinated with kinepox during the winter of 1801–1802. Unfortunately, Lewis never got the opportunity to use kinepox during the pair's expedition, as it had become inadvertently inactive—a common occurrence in a time before vaccines were stabilized with preservatives such as glycerol or kept at refrigeration temperatures.\n\nToday, the virus is found in Europe, mainly in the UK. Human cases are very rare (though in 2010 a laboratory worker contracted cowpox) and most often contracted from domestic cats. Human infections usually remain localized and self-limiting, but can become fatal in immunosuppressed patients. The virus is not commonly found in cattle; the reservoir hosts for the virus are woodland rodents, particularly voles. Domestic cats contract the virus from these rodents. Symptoms in cats include lesions on the face, neck, forelimbs, and paws, and, less commonly, upper respiratory tract infections. Symptoms of infection with cowpox virus in humans are localized, pustular lesions generally found on the hands and limited to the site of introduction. The incubation period is 9 to 10 days. The virus is most prevalent in late summer and autumn.\n\nImmunity to cowpox is gained when the smallpox vaccine is administered. Although the vaccine now uses vaccinia virus, the poxviruses are similar enough that the body becomes immune to both cow- and smallpox.\n"}
{"id": "30642420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30642420", "title": "Diabetes in Australia", "text": "Diabetes in Australia\n\nAn estimated 275 Australians develop diabetes every day. The 2005 Australian AusDiab Follow-up Study (Australian Diabetes, Obesity and Lifestyle Study) showed that 1.7 million Australians have diabetes but that up to half of the cases of type 2 diabetes remain undiagnosed.\n\nType 2 diabetes is the most common type of diabetes, and majority of those affected are diagnosed with Type 2. Type 2 diabetes is classified as a lifestyle disease which is impacted by environmental and hereditary factors. This form of diabetes is significantly affected by the lifestyle the individual has. It is associated with the individuals' diet and activity level. The population who are most at risk are those who adopt a sedentary lifestyle at a young age. some things to take into consideration if you feel that you are at risk of Type 2 diabetes.\n\n\nAlthough there is no direct cure for Type 2 diabetes the Australian Government: Department of Health has put in place guidelines to assure that children and adolescents receive the suggested period of time engaging in physical activity. Some of their suggestions are as follows:\n\nOther facts about diabetes include:\n\nIn 2007-08 approximately 520,000 people had diabetes and CVD meaning only 42% of diabetics did not have CVD. CVD is the major cause of mortality in people suffering from diabetes with CVD accounting for 80% of deaths.\n\nThe International Diabetes Federation has estimated that currently 194 million people worldwide, or 5.1% within the adult population have diabetes; this will jump to 333 million, or 6.3%, by 2025. Type 2 Diabetes makes up approximately 85% to 95% of all diabetes in developed countries, and is even higher in developing countries.\n\nThe European Region, with 48 million, and Western Pacific Region, with 43 million, has the most number of people with diabetes currently. In 2025, the region with the largest number of people with diabetes will to change to the South-East Asian Region with approximately 82 million sufferers.\n\nRight now the age group with the greatest number of people suffering from diabetes are the 40- to 59-year-olds. Due to the ageing population, by 2025 there will be 146 million people aged 40–59 and 147 million people aged 60 or older with diabetes.\n\nIn 2003, the number of people with diabetes in urban areas was 78 million and by 2025 it is said to increase to 182 million urban and 61 million rural people with diabetes.\n\nA University of Alberta study, conducted in 2006, noted that 60% of Aborigines over the age of 35 in Western Australia tested positive for diabetes.\n\nA study conducted by the International Diabetes Institute at Monash University showed that Asians, Pacific Islanders, and Middle Eastern immigrants who moved to Australia were diagnosed with diabetes at a higher level than the average. The increase was explained by the adoption of a Western diet in place of a more healthy \"traditional\" diet more common in their native countries, as well as adopting a more sedentary lifestyle which is ubiquitous in developed countries.\n\nThe National Diabetes Services Scheme (NDSS) is an institution funded by the Australian Government that delivers diabetes-related products at affordable prices and provides information and support services to people with type 1, type 2, gestational and other types of diabetes; the number one national peak body for diabetes in Australia, Diabetes Australia, runs this scheme. State and territory diabetes organisations are also assisting in the arrangements and planning of services for this scheme. The National Diabetes service aim is to ensure appropriate, reliable and affordable access to diabetes-related products and services to support people suffering from diabetes.\n\n"}
{"id": "16808988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16808988", "title": "ERDLator", "text": "ERDLator\n\nThe ERDLator was a field water treatment device developed during World War II at the U.S. Army's United States Army Engineer Research and Development Laboratory at Ft. Belvoir, Virginia.\n\nTechnically named the \"Water Purification Unit, Van-Type, Body Mounted, Electric Motor Driven\", the acronym was incorporated into the name of the purification device itself, creating the name by which it was most widely known, ERDLator, pronounced \"erd-a-later\".\n\nThe device was introduced into the field as a van-type body-mounted mobile unit, and proved vitally important to the operational effectiveness of deployed units under harsh field conditions, providing not only the water needed for survival, but clean potable water for staying healthy. This passage from a description of the United States Marine Corps Engineer Battalion illustrates the ERDLator's significance:\n\nERDLator units of several production capacities were used for field water purification during the Vietnam War.\n\nThe unit was replaced in 1979 by the Reverse Osmosis Water Purification Unit (ROWPU) (\"Row-pew\"), also developed by a U.S. Army laboratory. Developing water purification systems for military use has led to technological breakthroughs which have benefited the civilian community; the ERDLator was evaluated for technology transfer to the civilian sector for the decontamination of water polluted with asbestos fibers.\n"}
{"id": "474080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=474080", "title": "Eddystone Rocks", "text": "Eddystone Rocks\n\nThe Eddystone, or the Eddystone Rocks, are a seaswept and heavily eroded group of rocks some 9 statute miles (14 kilometres) southwest of Rame Head in Cornwall, England, United Kingdom. Formerly a treacherous hazard for ships in the approaches to the English Channel and the port city of Plymouth, the rocks have played host to four iterations of the Eddystone Lighthouse, and are still home to the current lighthouse and the stub of its immediate predecessor.\n\nAlthough the nearest point on the mainland to the Eddystone is in Cornwall, the rocks fall within the city limits of Plymouth, and hence within the county of Devon.\n\nThere have been four lighthouses on the Eddystone Rocks. Winstanley (two versions; the second however just replaced the top of the structure), Rudyard, Smeaton and finally the Douglass Lighthouse, which is the present one. When the Douglass Lighthouse was completed the people of Plymouth, grateful for the countless lives which had been saved since the introduction of the lighthouses, paid for the dismantling of the Smeaton Lighthouse from the red rocks of Eddystone and reassembly at Plymouth Hoe, where it is a popular tourist attraction today.\n\nA traditional sea-shanty \"The Eddystone Light\" chronicles a fictional encounter between the lighthouse keeper and a mermaid. The Seekers, the Weavers, and Peter, Paul and Mary have recorded the shanty.\n\nEddystone rock is something of an anomaly in the geology of the South West region; it is composed of garnetiferous gneissic rock which is part of a considerable underwater outcrop of mica-schists and granitoid gneisses which have not been found elsewhere in South West England.\n\nIsotopic ages suggest that the last period of deformation was during the end of the Devonian, but their highly metamorphosed state indicates they likely have an older ancestry, a relic of earlier tectonic activity, probably of Precambrian age.\n"}
{"id": "763221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=763221", "title": "European Agency for Safety and Health at Work", "text": "European Agency for Safety and Health at Work\n\nThe European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (EU-OSHA) is a decentralised agency of the European Union with the task of collecting, analysing and disseminating relevant information that can serve the needs of people involved in safety and health at work. Set up in 1994 by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994, EU-OSHA is based in Bilbao, Spain, where it has a staff of occupational safety and health, communication and administrative specialists. Dr Christa Sedlatschek is the current Director of EU-OSHA, following on from Dr Jukka Takala in September 2011.\n\nEU-OSHA collects, analyses and disseminates information related to occupational safety and health across the EU and contributes to an evidence base which policymakers can use to establish future policies regarding occupational safety and health. EU-OSHA publishes a monthly newsletter, OSHmail, which deals with occupational health and safety topics, and provides in-depth publications, such as detailed reports, regarding occupational safety and health information.\n\nEU-OSHA works through diverse networks spanning the EU, with its main activities covering three distinct areas: analysis and research, prevention, and campaigning and awareness raising. EU-OSHA was given an important role in the European strategy on Health and Safety at Work (2007–12) and this was reflected in the EU-OSHA Strategy and Annual Management Plan.\n\nEU-OSHA works in partnership with a wide range of organisations. The Directorate-General Employment, Social Affairs & Inclusion is its reference at the European Commission. At a national level, EU-OSHA is represented by a network of \"focal points\" in over 30 countries across Europe. Focal points are usually the primary safety and health organisation of a particular country. Each focal point operates a tripartite national network to ensure that information on safety and health at work can be effectively collected and disseminated.\n\nEU-OSHA emphasises the importance of a tripartite approach, whereby EU-OSHA works in partnership with governments, employers and workers' representatives. This tripartite structure (Governing Board) is key to the way EU-OSHA carries out its campaigns. Through its campaigns EU-OSHA also works with companies and associations in the public and private sector, and with the Enterprise Europe Network (EEN), a business support network that aims to help small businesses in the European marketplace.\n\nEU-OSHA is responsible for contributing to the evidence base through commissioning, collecting and publishing studies on occupational safety and health as well as monitoring, collating and analysing statistical information on occupational safety and health risks in workplaces across the EU.\n\nIn 2005, EU-OSHA established the European Risk Observatory (ERO) to try to identify and predict such risks. To achieve this aim, the ERO \"provides an overview of safety and health at work in Europe, describes the trends and underlying factors, and anticipates changes in work and their likely impact on occupational safety and health\". ERO identifies research areas for prioritisation and indicates the appropriate action that policy and decision makers should take.\n\nIn 2009, EU-OSHA carried out an EU-wide survey, the European enterprise survey on new and emerging risks (ESENER). The survey involved approximately 36,000 interviews with managers and health and safety representatives and aimed to get an insight into how European companies were managing health and safety issues. The survey was particularly concerned with \"new\" psychosocial risks, \"such as work-related stress, violence and bullying\", and highlighted that these risks are a growing concern. ESENER has provided policy makers with information relevant to the creation of future policies in the area of health and safety and has revealed issues of particular concern that require prioritisation. EU-OSHA has produced a number of follow-up studies analysing the results of the ESENER and plans to carry out a second survey in 2014.\n\nEU-OSHA is also running an innovative project known as Foresight, which aims to look beyond current safety and health risks to anticipate the potential areas of future concern. Foresight involves looking at the possible scenarios that may arise with technological or wider societal change, and the effect these changes may have on occupational safety and health. The project aims to stimulate debate, and to make it clear to policy- and decision makers what the implications of particular courses of action are. The project also suggests how possible future risks may be avoided. The first Foresight project is concerned with producing \"sets of scenarios for 2020, covering a range of \"new technologies in green jobs\" and the impact they could have on workers' safety and health\".\n\nEU-OSHA aims to create a culture of risk prevention and is involved with designing practical instruments that can be used by companies of micro, small and medium sizes that will help them to assess workplace risks and to share knowledge and good practices on safety and health. As part of this aim EU-OSHA has created an online interactive risk assessment project (OiRA), launched in September 2011. The OiRA provides \"an easy-to-use and cost-free web application\" that allows users to create online risk assessment tools. It is an interactive tool that can be used by any micro or small enterprise to carry out a risk assessment.\n\nEU-OSHA is active in raising awareness about occupational safety and health and these issues are promoted primarily through Healthy Workplaces Campaigns, which have been run with partners in the EU's Member States since 2000. Each campaign runs for two years and has a different focus. The current campaign, Working together for risk prevention, is concerned with encouraging \"managers, workers and other stakeholders to join forces to improve safety and health\". As part of each campaign EU-OSHA produces \"information, practical guides and tools, and publicity material freely available, translated into more than 20 European languages\" The campaigns run in partnership between EU-OSHA and more than 80 campaign partners, as well as through the agencies' network of national focal points and the Enterprise Europe Network.\n\nLinked to and acting as an annual focus for campaigns, EU-OSHA is coordinating the European Week for Safety and Health at Work, held each year in October, when events such as training sessions, conferences and workshops are held. Such events are organised across Europe by the focal points in Member States.\n\nEU-OSHA, along with six national safety and health organisations, participates in a consortium that has produced a number of animated films which aim to convey the importance of health and safety in the workplace. The main character in these films – known as Napo – is essentially a typical employee who can be the victim of situations over which he has no control but he can also identify hazards or risks, and make good suggestions to improve safety and work organisation. The films are all language-free, making them widely accessible, and have won a number of awards. Napo has become somewhat of a mascot for EU-OSHA's campaigning activities, and is now being used to introduce health and safety issues to children in primary schools (Napo for teachers).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7889269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7889269", "title": "Fertility clinic", "text": "Fertility clinic\n\nFertility clinics are medical clinics that assist couples, and sometimes individuals, who want to become parents but for medical reasons have been unable to achieve this goal via the natural course. Clinics apply a number of diagnosis tests and sometimes very advanced medical treatments to achieve conceptions and pregnancies.\n\nFertility clinics are staffed with trained personnel including reproductive endocrinologists, embryologists, sonographers, and nurses. Additional specialists from acupuncture, hypnotherapy, and nutrition may also be part of the team.\n\nFertility clinics look to both males and females for diagnosis of fertility problems. Diagnosis has shown that fertility problems arise 35% of the time from males, 35% from female, 20% from combined issues, and 10% from unexplained causes. For the male, semen collection is a standard diagnostic test to ascertain problems with the semen quality, while females may undergo a number of tests including an ovulation analysis, x-ray of fallopian tubes and uterus, and laparoscopy. They may also perform ultrasounds by a sonographer and advanced pregnancy tests.\n\nTreatment may include ovulation induction, surgical interventions, artificial insemination, such as intrauterine insemination (IUI), in vitro fertilization (IVF), or the use of an egg donor or a sperm donor. In vitro fertilization is the most well known of the assisted reproductive technology procedures performed at a fertility clinic. Advanced male infertility treatments such as TESA (Testicular Epididymal Sperm Aspiration) is also provided by fertility clinics these days.\n\nThe Centers for Disease Control requires outcome data be reported to the Society of Assisted Reproductive Technology (SART) which is the organization that compiles statistics. Fertility clinics are often compared by these IVF success rates. However, it's important to note that SART puts a caution at bottom of each report that reads \"Patient characteristics vary among programs; therefore, these data should not be used for comparing clinics.\" A consultation with many fertility clinics is always a good option to get a more complete comparison for a patients specific situation and needs. \n\nMedical dramas set in a fertility clinic include \"Inconceivable\" which ran for two episodes in 2005 before being cancelled, and \"The Family Man\", a British series in three parts. Furthermore, Private Practice is set in a clinic that offers fertility services to a large extent.\n\n"}
{"id": "8483785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8483785", "title": "Fibrocystic breast changes", "text": "Fibrocystic breast changes\n\nFibrocystic breast changes is a condition of the breasts were there may be pain, breast cysts, and breast masses. The breasts may be described as \"lumpy\" or \"doughy\". Symptoms may worsen during certain parts of the menstrual cycle. It is not associated with cancer.\nRisk factors include an early age at first menstrual period and either having children late or not having children. It is not a disease but represents normal breast changes. Diagnosis typically involves ruling out breast cancer. Fibrocystic change includes fibroadenomas, fibrosis, and papillomas of the breast.\nManagement may involve education about the condition, a well fitting bra, and pain medication. Occasionally danazol or tamoxifen may be used for pain. It is estimated that up to 60% of women are affected. Women between the ages of 30 and 50 are most commonly affected.\n\nThe changes in fibrocystic breast disease are characterised by the appearance of fibrous tissue and a lumpy, cobblestone texture in the breasts. These lumps are smooth with defined edges, and are usually free-moving in regard to adjacent structures. The bumps can sometimes be obscured by irregularities in the breast that are associated with the condition. The lumps are most often found in the upper, outer sections of the breast (nearest to the armpit), but can be found throughout the breast. Women with fibrocystic changes may experience a persistent or intermittent breast aching or breast tenderness related to periodic swelling. Breasts and nipples may be tender or itchy.\n\nSymptoms follow a periodic trend tied closely to the menstrual cycle. Symptoms tend to peak in the days and, in severe cases, weeks before each period and decrease afterwards. At peak, breasts may feel full, heavy, swollen, and tender to the touch. No complications related to breastfeeding have been found.\n\nThe exact mechanism of the condition is not fully understood, though it is known to be tied to hormone levels, as the condition usually subsides after menopause and is also related to the menstrual cycle. Post-menopausal women placed on hormone replacement therapy (HRT) have also reported symptoms of FBC indicating hormones may play a role.\n\nFibrocystic breast changes is a cumulative process, caused partly by the normal hormonal variation during a woman's monthly cycle. The most important of these hormones are estrogen, progesterone and prolactin.\n\nThese hormones directly affect the breast tissues by causing cells to grow and multiply. Many other hormones such as TSH, insulin, growth hormone and growth factors such as TGF-beta exert direct and indirect effects amplifying or regulating cell growth. Years of such fluctuations eventually produce small cysts and/or areas of dense or fibrotic tissue. Multiple small cysts and an increasing level of breast pain commonly develop when a woman hits her 30s. Larger cysts usually do not occur until after the age of 35. Over time, presumably driven by aberrant growth signals, such lesions may accumulate epigenetic, genetic and karyotypic changes such as modified expression of hormone receptors and loss of heterozygosity.\n\nSeveral variants of fibrocystic breast changes may be distinguished and these may have different causes and genetic predispostions. Adenosis involves abnormal count and density of lobular units, while other lesions appear to stem mainly from ductal epithelial origins.\n\nThere is preliminary evidence that iodine deficiency contributes to fibrocystic breast changes by enhancing the sensitivity of breast tissue to estrogen.\n\nDiagnosis is mostly done based on symptoms after exclusion of breast cancer. Nipple fluid aspiration can be used to classify cyst type (and to some extent improve breast cancer risk prediction) but it is rarely used in practice. Biopsy or fine needle aspiration are rarely warranted.\n\nFibrocystic breast disease is primarily diagnosed based on the symptoms, clinical breast exam and on a physical exam. During this examination, the doctor checks for unusual areas in the breasts, both visually and manually. Also, the lymph nodes in the axilla area and lower neck are examined. A complete and accurate medical history is also helpful in diagnosing this condition. If the patient's medical history and physical exam findings are consistent with normal breast changes, no additional tests are considered but otherwise the patient will be asked to return a few weeks later for reassessment. Women may detect lumps in their breasts during self-examination as well.\n\nIn order to establish whether the lump is a cyst or not, several imaging tests may be performed. Mammography is usually the first imaging test to be ordered when unusual breast changes have been detected during a physical examination. A diagnostic mammography consists in a series of x-rays that provide clear images of specific areas of the breast.\n\nUltrasounds and MRIs are commonly performed in conjunction with mammographies as they produce clear images of the breast and clearly distinguish between fluid-filled breast cysts and solid masses. The ultrasound and MRI exams can better evaluate dense tissue of the breast; hence it is often undergone by young patients, under 30 years old.\n\nThe breast biopsy is usually the test used to confirm the suspected diagnosing. After imaging tests have been performed and have revealed unusual areas or lumps in the breast, a breast biopsy will be ordered. This test consists in removing a sample of breast tissue which is then looked at under a microscope. The specialist analyzing the tissue sample will be able to conclude if the breast changes are benign or malignant or whether breast fibrocystic disease is present.\n\nThere are four main types of breast biopsies that may be performed. A fine-needle aspiration biopsy is usually ordered when the doctor is almost certain that the lump is a cyst. This test is generally performed in conjunction with an ultrasound which is helpful in guiding the needle into a small or hard to find lump. The procedure is painless and it consists in inserting a thin needle into the breast tissue while the lump is palpated.\n\nThe core-needle biopsy is normally performed under local anesthesia and in a physician's office. The needle used in this procedure is slightly larger than the one used for a fine-needle biopsy because the procedure is intended to remove a small cylinder of tissue that will be sent to the laboratory for further examination.\n\nA newer type of breast biopsy is the stereotactic biopsy that relies on a three-dimensional x-ray to guide the needle biopsy of non-palpable mass. The biopsy is performed in a similar manner, by using a needle to remove tissue sample but locating the specific area of the breast is done by x-raying the breast by two different angles. Surgical biopsy is a procedure performed to remove the entire lump or a part of it for laboratory analyzing. It may be painful and it is done under local anesthesia.\n\nMost women with fibrocystic changes and no symptoms do not need treatment, but closer follow-up may be advised.\n\nThere is no widely accepted treatment or prevention strategy for fibrocystic condition. When treatment of symptoms is necessary it follows the same strategies as treatment for cyclical breast pain.\n\nIt is controversial whether benign breast conditions improve or worsen with oral contraceptives or hormone replacement therapy.\n\nA few small-scale studies have indicated that the fibrocystic condition may be improved by dietary changes (especially by a reduced intake of caffeine and related methylxanthines or by a reduced intake of salt) and by vitamin supplements.\n\nTentative evidence shown beneficial effects of iodine supplementation in women with fibrocystic breast changes.\n\nThere are usually no adverse side effects to this condition. In almost all cases it subsides after menopause. A possible complication arises through the fact that cancerous tumors may be more difficult to detect in women with fibrocystic changes.\n\nBreast cancer risk is elevated for defined fraction of lesions. Except for people with a strong family history of breast cancer, where the risk is two-fold, nonproliferative lesions have no increased risk. Proliferative lesions also have approximately a 2-fold risk. In particular, atypical hyperplasia is associated with an increased risk of developing breast cancer. Atypical lobular hyperplasia is associated with the greatest risk, approximately 5-fold and especially high relative risk of developing premenopausal breast cancer. Atypical ductal hyperplasia is associated with 2.4-fold risk. In contrast, a New England Journal of Medicine article states that for women with a strong familial history of breast cancer, the risk of future breast cancer is roughly doubled, independent of histological status. The article further states \"The relative risk of breast cancer for the cohort was 1.56 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.45 to 1.68), and this increased risk persisted for at least 25 years after biopsy. The relative risk associated with atypia was 4.24 (95 percent confidence interval, 3.26 to 5.41), as compared with a relative risk of 1.88 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.66 to 2.12) for proliferative changes without atypia and of 1.27 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.15 to 1.41) for nonproliferative lesions. The strength of the family history of breast cancer, available for 4808 women, was a risk factor that was independent of histologic findings. No increased risk was found among women with no family history and nonproliferative findings. In the first 10 years after the initial biopsy, an excess of cancers occurred in the same breast, especially in women with atypia.\"\n\nIt is not well understood whether the lesions are precursors of breast cancer or only indication of increased risk, for most types of lesions the chance of developing breast cancer is nearly the same in the affected and unaffected breast (side) indicating only coincidence of risk factors. For atypical lobular hyperplasia there is high incidence of ipsilateral breast cancers indicating a possible direct carcinogenetic link.\n\nThe estimated figures for the prevalence of fibrocystic breast changes in women over lifetime vary widely in the literature, with estimates ranging from about 30 to 60 % over about 50 to 60 % to about 60 to 75% of all women.\n\nThe condition is most common among women between 30 and 50 years of age.\n\nIn ICD-10 the condition is called \"diffuse cystic mastopathy\", or, if there is epithelial proliferation, \"fibrosclerosis of breast\". Other names for this condition include \"chronic cystic mastitis\", \"fibrocystic mastopathy\" and \"mammary dysplasia\". The condition has also been named after several people (see eponyms below). Since it is a very common disorder, some authors have argued that it should not be termed a \"disease\", whereas others feel that it meets the criteria for a disease. It is not a classic form of mastitis (breast inflammation).\n\nThis entity has historically also been termed \"Bloodgood’s disease\", \"Cooper's disease\" (after Sir Astley Paston Cooper, 1st baronet), \"Phocas' disease\", \"Reclus’ disease\" and \"Reclus’ syndrome\" (after Paul Reclus), \"Reclus-Schimmelbusch disease\", \"Schimmelbusch disease\" and \"Tillaux-Phocas disease\".\n"}
{"id": "3234630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3234630", "title": "Fresno Case", "text": "Fresno Case\n\nThe Case Fresno is the name assigned by the Catalonia media and public opinion to the Federation of International Roller Sports (FIRS) assembly held at Fresno, California, on 26 November 2004. It meant that for the first time in history, an international sport team that had been accepted provisionally was later not accepted definitely. At the same time, it was the first time that a regional sport team (Catalonia) had been registered with the opposition of the state the region belonged to (Spain). The Spanish sport organizations actively lobbied against the Catalonia membership among the members of the assembly. At the Fresno assembly, the membership application was rejected (8–114). However, the Federació Catalana de Patinatge brought the case to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (TAS) at Lausanne, which admitted irregularities in the assembly (notably the lack of secrecy in the vote), invalidated the vote, and forced the FIRS to repeat the vote following the FIRS statute rules. An extraordinary FIRS assembly was held in Rome on November 24, 2005, and again rejected the membership application of the Catalan federation (125–43).\n\nAfter being granted a temporary membership, Catalonia played the World Championship B, at Macau, (China), in October 2004, winning it. As a result, Catalonia qualified to play the full World Championship, where it played in the same group as Spain.\n\nSome Catalan media have denounced the pressions by the Spanish government and sport organizations on the members of the assembly .\n\nRepresentatives from Chile or Italy (Sabatino Aracu, member of Forza Italia) would allegedly suffered from such pressions or receive instructions from their national governments.\n\nThe Czech Republic representative Radek Pavelec admitted that his federation had received pressures from the Spanish government .\n\nIn addition, a letter of the Consejo Superior de Deported (CSD, the Spanish Council for Sports) to the Colombian federation in which the Spaniards were asking for the vote against Catalonia has been made public. In that letter the CSD stated that the recognition of Catalonia would alter the Spanish sport national unity and would create a wrong precedent.\nThe same letter was sent to some other South American federations .\n\nThe German representative admitted that she was contacted by the German MP for Sport demanding the vote against Catalonia. Literally he asked her to make sure she was coming back from Fresno with a \"no\" against Catalonia.\n\nOn 29 November 2005, the FIRS assembly, meeting in Rome, he repeated the final vote on the admission of the Catalan Federation of Skating.\n\nIn this case the method of voting was secret and the president of the Catalan Ramon Basiana was able to defend the nomination.\n\nThe extraordinary meeting in Rome of the FIRS rejected by 125 votes to 43 for admission as a full member of the Catalan Federation of Skating\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44208905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44208905", "title": "German Society for Hygiene and Microbiology", "text": "German Society for Hygiene and Microbiology\n\nThe German Society for Hygiene and Microbiology (, DGHM), formerly known as the Society for Microbiology, is a German medical society, which works to advance research in the fields of infectious diseases and microbiology. It was founded in 1906.\n\n"}
{"id": "27531955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27531955", "title": "Global Food Safety Initiative", "text": "Global Food Safety Initiative\n\nThe Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) is a private organization, established and managed by the international trade association, the Consumer Goods Forum under Belgian law in May 2000. The GFSI maintains a scheme to benchmark food safety standards for manufacturers as well as farm assurance standards.\n\nThe Global Food Safety Initiative is a business-driven initiative for the continuous improvement of food safety management systems to ensure confidence in the delivery of safe food to consumers worldwide. GFSI provides a platform for collaboration between some of the world’s leading food safety experts from retailer, manufacturer and food service companies, service providers associated with the food supply chain, international organizations, academia and government.\n\nThe initiative was launched in 2000 following a number of food safety crises when consumer confidence was at an all-time low. Since then, experts from all over the world have been collaborating in numerous Technical Working Groups to tackle current food safety issues defined by GFSI stakeholders.\n\nKey activities within GFSI include the definition of food safety requirements for food safety schemes through a benchmarking process. This process is thought to lead to recognition of existing food safety schemes and enhances confidence, acceptance and implementation of third party certification along the entire food supply chain.\n\nGFSI’s current focus is on extending the requirements to cover all scopes of the global food supply chain \"from farm to fork\". \nOther important current activities include the development of a capacity building programme for small and/or less developed businesses to facilitate their access to local markets and a continuous focus on food safety auditor competence to bring industry experts in collaboration with key stakeholders to a common consensus on the skills, knowledge and attributes that a competent auditor should possess.\n\nWithin GFSI, benchmarking is a “procedure by which a food safety-related scheme is compared to the GFSI Guidance Document\".\n\nBack in 2000, food safety was a top of mind issue for companies due to several high-profile recalls, quarantines and negative publicity about the food industry. There was also extensive audit fatigue through the industry, as retailers performed inspections or audits themselves or asked a third party to do this on their behalf. These were often carried out against food safety schemes that lacked international certification and accreditation, resulting in incomparable auditing results.\n\nCEOs of global companies came together at The Consumer Goods Forum (CIES at the time) and agreed that consumer trust needed to be strengthened and maintained through a safer supply chain. GFSI was created to achieve this through the harmonisation of food safety standards that would help reduce audit duplication throughout the supply chain. At the time, there was no existing scheme that could be qualified as “global” that could be adopted by all. GFSI therefore chose to go down the route of benchmarking, developing a model that determines equivalency between existing food safety schemes, whilst leaving flexibility and choice in the marketplace.\n\nThis benchmarking model is based on the GFSI Guidance Document, a multi-stakeholder document that was drafted with input from food safety experts from all over the world, and defines the process by which food safety schemes may gain recognition by GFSI and gives guidance to these schemes. GFSI drives continuous improvement through the Guidance Document, which is updated on a regular basis with global industry input to ensure that the requirements for food safety management schemes are robust. GFSI does not undertake any certification or accreditation activities.\n\nThe GFSI objectives are to:\n\nGFSI has recognized a number of food safety management schemes that fulfill the criteria of the GFSI Guidance Document. The GFSI Guidance Document is regularly revised by GFSI to reflect improvements in best practices. GFSI is not a scheme in itself and does not carry out any accreditation or certification activities.\n\nThe status of recognition is achieved through a comprehensive benchmarking process. Once a standard has gained formal recognition by the GFSI Board of Directors, this standard is deemed to meet all of the requirements in the Guidance Document.\n\nCertification according to a GFSI recognized scheme can be achieved through a successful third party audit against any of the following schemes recognized by the GFSI:\n\n\nUnder the umbrella of GFSI, eight major retailers (Carrefour, Tesco, ICA, Metro, Migros, Ahold, Wal-Mart and Delhaize) came to a common acceptance of the GFSI benchmarked food safety schemes in June 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "8166343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8166343", "title": "Gunther Eysenbach", "text": "Gunther Eysenbach\n\nGunther Eysenbach is a researcher on healthcare, especially health policy, eHealth, and consumer health informatics.\n\nEysenbach was born on 22 March 1967 in Berlin, Germany. While a medical student, he served on the executive board as elected communication director, later as vice-president of the European Medical Students' Association. He received an M.D. from the University of Freiburg and a Master of Public Health from Harvard School of Public Health. From 1999 to 2002 he founded and headed a research unit on cybermedicine and ehealth at the University of Heidelberg and organized and chaired the World Congress on Internet in Medicine. In March 2002, he emigrated to Canada and since then has been senior scientist at the Centre for Global eHealth Innovation at the University Health Network (Toronto, Ontario, Canada), and associate professor in the Institute of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation at the University of Toronto.\n\nEysenbach works in the field of consumer health informatics. He has written several books and articles, and organizes conferences. He is editor-in-chief of the \"Journal of Medical Internet Research\". From 2000-2008, he served as working group chair for the WG Consumer Health Informatics of the International Medical Informatics Association.\n\nOther contributions include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13201218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13201218", "title": "Health care in Colombia", "text": "Health care in Colombia\n\nHealth care in Colombia refers to the prevention, treatment, and management of illness and the preservation of mental and physical well being through the services offered by the medical, nursing, and allied health professions in the Republic of Colombia.\n\nTropical diseases are important issues in Colombia because they area major causes of death. Malaria affects nearly 85% of the national territory, mainly the Pacific ocean coast, the Amazon jungle and eastern savannas, with an estimated of 250,000 cases/year and a mortality rate of 3/100,000. \nThe main agent is \"Plasmodium vivax\" with 66% of the cases, except on the Pacific coast, where \"Plasmodium falciparum\" causes 75% of the cases.\n\nYellow fever and Dengue fever are major public health concerns, because of their high epidemic potential, high mortality rate and wide distribution of \"Aedes aegypti\". The Colombian government develops vaccination campaigns against yellow fever on a regular basis.\n\nChagas disease is endemic to the Santander Department and nearby areas. Other diseases such as Leishmania, rabies, Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus and West nile virus are also present in Colombia. Snakebites are a big concern, because of the shortage in antivenom supplies countrywide.\n\nDifferent forms of malnutrition severely affect the population, especially children under five years of age, with moderate to severe rates of malnutrition of 21% and iron deficiency anemia of 23%. (see aguapanela).\n\nThe first graduated medical doctor, Alvaro de Aunón came to New Granada from Seville Spain, in 1597 and stayed for a short time. The first drug-store in Colombia was opened at the same time, in the main square of Bogotá by Pedro Lopez Buiza. \n\nIn 1636, Rodrigo Enriquez de Andrade started the first faculty of medicine in the New Granada, at St Bartholomew's College with little success because of the prejudices against the medical career in the Spanish culture, where it was considered vulgar and proper of lower-class people. Most of the medical practice in the country was provided by people without formal education. The first medical book written in Colombia was \"Tratado de medicina y modelo de curar en estas partes de Indias\" () by Pedro Fernandez de Valenzuela (1662).\n\nIn 1740, don Vicente Tomás Cansino started the medical program at Our Lady of the Rosary University. The medical care at the time was made almost exclusively in the particular homes of the sick people due lo the lack of health institutions. The first hospital in Colombia was San Pedro Hospital, in the capital city Bogotá. The hospital started functioning in 1564, built by bishop Juan de los Barrios. In 1739 the Hospital San Juan de Dios, Bogota was opened, built by fray Pedro Pablo Villamor.\n\nIn 1877, Anna Galvis Hotz became the first Colombian woman to become a Doctor of Medicine having graduated the University of Bern in Switzerland since women could not attend university in Colombia at the time. In 1925, Paulina Beregoff became the first woman to become a Doctor of Medicine from a Colombian institution, the Russian-American graduated from the University of Cartagena. In 1945, Inés Ochoa Pérez became the first Colombian woman to become a Doctor of Medicine from a Colombian institution having graduated from the National University of Colombia.\n\nHealth standards in Colombia have improved greatly since the 1980s. A 1993 reform transformed the structure of public health care funding by shifting the burden of subsidy from providers to users. As a result, employees have been obligated to pay into health plans to which employers also contribute. Although this new system has widened population coverage by the social and health security system from 21% (pre-1993) to 56% in 2004 and 66% in 2005, health disparities persist, with the poor continuing to suffer relatively high mortality rates.\n\nThe refractive surgery keratomileusis was developed by Ignacio Barraquer in 1964 in Bogotá. On January 10, 1985, Dr. Elkin Lucena performed the first successful In vitro fertilization, that allowed the birth of the first Latin American test tube baby Carolina Mendez. On December 14, 1985 the Dr. Alberto Villegas performed the first heart transplant in Latin America to Antonio Yepes.\n\nOn May 20, 1994 Dr. Manuel Elkin Patarroyo received the Prince of Asturias Awards by his technical and scientific research in the development of synthetic malaria vaccine.\n\nIn 2002 Colombia had 58,761 physicians, 23,950 nurses, and 33,951 dentists; these numbers equated to 1.35 physicians, 0.55 nurses, and 0.78 dentists per 1,000 people, respectively. In 2005 Colombia was reported to have only 1.1 physicians per 1,000 people, as compared with a Latin American average of 1.5.\n\nGeneral government spending on health accounted for 20.5% of total government expenditures and for 84.1% of total health expenditures (private expenditures made up the balance) in 2003. Total expenditures on health constituted 5.6 percent of gross domestic product in 2005. The per capita expenditure on health care in 2005 at an average exchange rate was US$150.\n\nUrban and rural residents experienced significant differences in access to health care. The coverage in the three largest cities—Bogotá, Medellín, and Cali—was almost 95 percent. At the rural level, the best services were delivered by the departments in the coffee-growing areas. At the bottom of the scale—in terms of quality and coverage—were the rural areas in the non-Andean regions as well as the marginal neighborhoods in medium-sized and small cities.\n\nSince 2001–2 Colombia has halved its homicide rate, which was more than 60 per 100,000 inhabitants, or 28,837, in 2002, one of the world’s highest homicide rates. In 2006, a total of 17,206 violent deaths were recorded, the lowest figure since 1987. Other than homicide, heart disease is the main cause of premature death, followed by strokes, respiratory diseases, road accidents, and diabetes. Waterborne diseases such as cerebral malaria and leishmaniasis are prevalent in lowland and coastal areas. Child immunization for measles in 2004 as a percentage of children under 12 months of age was 92 percent.\n\nAcquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) is the fifth-leading cause of death in the working-age population. According to Colombia’s National Health Institute data reported in 2003, nearly 240,000 people — mostly women and young people — or 0.6 percent of the population had been infected with the virus since AIDS arrived in Colombia in October 1983. Estimates of the number of people living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), adults and children (0–49 years of age), in 2005 ranged from 160,000 to 310,000. The comparable figure for women (15–49 years of age) was 62,000. The number of AIDS and hepatitis B cases has been rising. In 2005, the estimated HIV adult prevalence rate (15–49 years of age) was 0.6 percent. As of 2006, between 5,200 and 12,000 people had died from AIDS. Services provided by the new Multisectoral National Plan, launched in July 2004, include integrated care for people living with HIV and provision of antiretroviral drugs. Under the plan, about 12,000 people have been receiving combined antiretroviral therapy (approximately 54% of those requiring it).\n\nThe national constitution was reformed in 1991 and with this purpose the general system of social security was reformed with the implementation of Law 100, which widely extended health coverage to the population; the economic resources to finance this reform, however, were insufficient, causing the collapse of many public health institutions and affecting the income of the medical staff.\nThe law 100 of 1993 is divided into four books:\n\nThe reform of the Colombian healthcare had three main goals: \n\nThe general principles of the law determine that healthcare is a public service that must be granted under conditions of proficiency, universality, social solidarity and participation. Article 153 of the law mandates that health insurance be compulsory, that health providers must have administrative autonomy, and that health users must have free choice of health providers.\n\n\nThe System for the Selection of Beneficiaries for Social Programs (El Sistema de Seleccion de Beneficiarios para Programas Sociales), the national system of identification of beneficiaries for social subsidy, classifies the people according to the residential properties that should receive public services. All mayors should do the stratification of residential properties of their municipality or district.\n\nMost of the social subsidies and public health programs are focused in strata 1 and 2 (and the newly introduced stratum 0 ). The fraudulent expedition of low level SISBEN ID cards is currently one of the major problems in the healthcare system. Regional politicians are often accused of providing them in exchange for votes to people that are not genuinely in need. Wrong identification of beneficiaries and political issues present a challenge to the system which is preventing people in need from receiving the subsidies and benefits designed for them.\n\nThe National Health Superintendent (Superintendencia de Salud) defines which organizations may qualify as EPS according to a number or requirements, including infrastructure, capital, number of users, functionality and covering. The function of the EPS is to sell health service packages to the public, and contract such services with the healthcare-providing institution.\n\nSome EPS providers offer a \"Plan Complementario\" that offers more expanded coverage and priority service to the patient.\n\nMost EPS providers also offer \"Medicina Prepagada\" that offers the highest level of medical attention and priority service to the patient at much higher costs.\n\nAs of October 1, 2014, there were 3,620 health establishments in Colombia, including hospitals, clinics and ambulance services. Private healthcare establishments account for 57% of all establishments within the country.\n\nWhile no single city or state stands out as being a centralized hub for hospitals, 80% of establishments are found within 16 (of 39 states).\n\nColombia ranks 22nd on the World Health Organization’s list of the best healthcare systems. Health standards in Colombia have improved very much since the 1980s, healthcare reforms have led to the massive improvements in the healthcare systems of the country. Although this new system has widened population coverage by the social and health security system from 21% (pre-1993) to 96% in 2012, health disparities persist. \n\nA study conducted by \"América Economía\" magazine ranked 21 Colombian health care institutions among the top 44 in Latin America, amounting to 48 percent of the total. A cancer research and treatment centre was declared as a Project of National Strategic Interest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2828828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2828828", "title": "Hedonic treadmill", "text": "Hedonic treadmill\n\nThe hedonic treadmill, also known as hedonic adaptation, is the observed tendency of humans to quickly return to a relatively stable level of happiness despite major positive or negative events or life changes.\nAccording to this theory, as a person makes more money, expectations and desires rise in tandem, which results in no permanent gain in happiness. Brickman and Campbell coined the term in their essay \"Hedonic Relativism and Planning the Good Society\" (1971). During the late 1990s, the concept was modified by Michael Eysenck, a British psychologist, to become the current \"hedonic treadmill theory\" which compares the pursuit of happiness to a person on a treadmill, who has to keep walking just to stay in the same place. The concept dates back centuries, to such writers as St. Augustine, cited in Robert Burton's 1621 \"Anatomy of Melancholy\": \"A true saying it is, \"Desire hath no rest\", is infinite in itself, endless, and as one calls it, a perpetual rack, or horse-mill.\"\n\nThe hedonic (or happiness) set point has gained interest throughout the field of positive psychology where it has been developed and revised further. Given that hedonic adaptation generally demonstrates that a person's long-term happiness is not significantly affected by otherwise impacting events, positive psychology has concerned itself with the discovery of things that can lead to lasting changes in happiness levels.\nHedonic adaptation is a process or mechanism that reduces the affective impact of emotional events. Generally, hedonic adaptation involves a happiness \"set point\", whereby humans generally maintain a constant level of happiness throughout their lives, despite events that occur in their environment. The process of hedonic adaptation is often conceptualized as a treadmill, since one must continually work to maintain a certain level of happiness. Others conceptualize hedonic adaptation as functioning similarly to a thermostat (a negative feedback system) that works to maintain an individual's happiness set point. One of the main concerns of positive psychology is determining how to maintain or raise one's happiness set point, and further, what kind of practices lead to lasting happiness.\n\nHedonic adaptation can occur in a variety of ways. Generally, the process involves cognitive changes, such as shifting values, goals, attention and interpretation of a situation. Further, neurochemical processes desensitize overstimulated hedonic pathways in the brain, which possibly prevents persistently high levels of intense positive or negative feelings. The process of adaptation can also occur through the tendency of humans to construct elaborate rationales for considering themselves deprived through a process social theorist Gregg Easterbrook calls \"abundance denial\".\n\nThe \"Hedonic Treadmill\" is a term coined by Brickman and Campbell in their article \"Hedonic Relativism and Planning the Good Society\" (1971), describing the tendency of people to keep a fairly stable baseline level of happiness despite external events and fluctuations in demographic circumstances. The idea of relative happiness had been around for decades when in 1978 Brickman et al. began to approach hedonic pleasure within the framework of Helson's adaptation level theory, which holds that perception of stimulation is dependent upon comparison of former stimulations. The hedonic treadmill functions similarly to most adaptations that serve to protect and enhance perception. In the case of hedonics, the sensitization or desensitization to circumstances or environment can redirect motivation. This reorientation functions to protect against complacency, but also to accept unchangeable circumstances, and redirect efforts towards more effective goals. Frederick and Lowenstein classify three types of processes in hedonic adaptation: shifting adaptation levels, desensitization, and sensitization. Shifting adaptation levels occurs when a person experiences a shift in what is perceived as a \"neutral\" stimulus, but maintains sensitivity to stimulus differences. For example, if Sam gets a raise he will initially be happier, and then habituate to the larger salary and return to his happiness set point. But he will still be pleased when he gets a holiday bonus. Desensitization decreases sensitivity in general, which reduces sensitivity to change. Those who have lived in war zones for extended periods of time may become desensitized to the destruction that happens on a daily basis, and be less affected by the occurrence of serious injuries or losses that may once have been shocking and upsetting. Sensitization is an increase of hedonic response from continuous exposure, such as the increased pleasure and selectivity of connoisseurs for wine, or food.\n\nBrickman, Coates, and Janoff-Bulman were among the first to investigate the hedonic treadmill in their 1978 study, \"Lottery Winners and Accident Victims: Is Happiness Relative?\". Lottery winners and paraplegics were compared to a control group and as predicted, comparison (with past experiences and current communities) and habituation (to new circumstances) affected levels of happiness such that after the initial impact of the extremely positive or negative events, happiness levels typically went back to the average levels. This interview-based study, while not longitudinal, was the beginning of a now large body of work exploring the relativity of happiness.\n\nBrickman and Campbell originally implied that everyone returns to the same neutral set point after a significantly emotional life event. In the literature review, \"Beyond the Hedonic Treadmill, Revising the Adaptation Theory of Well-Being\" (2006), Diener, Lucas, and Scollon concluded that people are not hedonically neutral, and that individuals have different set points which are at least partially heritable. They also concluded that individuals may have more than one happiness set point, such as a life satisfaction set point and a subjective well being set point, and that because of this, one's level of happiness is not just one given set point but can vary within a given range. Diener and colleagues point to longitudinal and cross-sectional research to argue that happiness set point can change, and lastly that individuals vary in the rate and extent of adaptation they exhibit to change in circumstance.\n\nIn a longitudinal study conducted by Mancini, Bonnano, and Clark, people showed individual differences in how they responded to significant life events, such as marriage, divorce and widowhood. They recognized that some individuals do experience substantial changes to their hedonic set point over time, though most others do not, and argue that happiness set point can be relatively stable throughout the course of an individual's life, but the life satisfaction and subjective well being set points are more variable.\n\nSimilarly, the longitudinal study conducted by Fujita and Diener (2005) described the life satisfaction set point as a \"soft baseline\". This means that for most people, this baseline is similar to their happiness baseline. Typically, life satisfaction will hover around a set point for the majority of their lives and not change dramatically. However, for about a quarter of the population this set point is not stable, and does indeed move in response to a major life event.\nOther longitudinal data has shown that subjective well being set points do change over time, and that adaptation is not necessarily inevitable. In his archival data analysis, Lucas found evidence that it is possible for someone's subjective well-being set point to change drastically, such as in the case of individuals who acquire a severe, long term disability. However, as Diener, Lucas, and Scollon point out, the amount of fluctuation a person experiences around their set point is largely dependent on the individual's ability to adapt.\n\nAfter following over a thousand sets of twins for 10 years, Lykken and Tellegen (1996) concluded that almost 50% of our happiness levels are determined by genetics. Headey and Wearing (1989) suggested that our position on the spectrum of the stable personality traits (neuroticism, extraversion, and openness to experience) accounts for how we experience and perceive life events, and indirectly contributes to our happiness levels. Research on happiness has spanned decades and crossed cultures in order to test the true limits of our hedonic set point.\n\nIn general there is conflicting evidence on the validity of the hedonic treadmill, if people always return to a baseline level of happiness or if some events have the ability to change this baseline for good. While some researchers believe life events change people's baseline for good over the course of one's life, others believe people will always return to their baseline.\n\nIn recent large panel studies divorce, death of a spouse, unemployment, disability and similar events have been shown to change the long-term subjective well-being, even though some adaptation does occur and inborn factors affect this.\n\nIn the aforementioned Brickman study (1978), researchers interviewed 22 lottery winners and 29 paraplegics to determine their change in happiness levels due to their given event (winning lottery or becoming paralyzed). The event in the case of lottery winners had taken place between one month and one and a half years before the study, and in the case of paraplegics between a month and a year. The group of lottery winners reported being similarly happy before and after the event, and expected to have a similar level of happiness in a couple of years. These findings show that having a large monetary gain had no effect on their baseline level of happiness, for both present and expected happiness in the future. They found that the paraplegics reported having a higher level of happiness in the past than the rest (due to a nostalgia effect), a lower level of happiness at the time of the study than the rest (although still above the middle point of the scale, that is, they reported being more happy than unhappy) and, surprisingly, they also expected to have similar levels of happiness than the rest in a couple of years. One must note that the paraplegics did have an initial decrease in life happiness, but the key to their findings is that they expected to eventually return to their baseline in time.\n\nIn a newer study (2007), winning a medium-sized lottery prize had a lasting mental wellbeing effect of 1.4 GHQ points on Britons even two years after the event.\nSome research suggests that hedonic setpoints can potentially be raised with new compounds like NSI-189. This could potentially have critical implications for the treatment of dysthymia and depression. Other research suggests that resilience to suffering is partly due to a decreased fear response in the amygdala and increased levels of BDNF in the brain. New genetic research have found that changing a gene could increase intelligence and resilience to depressing and traumatizing events. This could have crucial benefits for those suffering from anxiety and PTSD. \nRecent research reveals certain types of brain training can increase brain size. The hippocampus volume can affect mood, hedonic setpoints, some forms of memory. A smaller hippocampus has been linked to depression and dysthymia. Certain activities and environmental factors can reset the hedonic setpoint and also grow the hippocampus to an extent. London taxi drivers' hippocampi grow on the job, and the drivers have a better memory than those who didn't become taxi drivers. In particular, the posterior hippocampus seemed to be the most important for enhanced mood and memory.\n\nLucas, Clark, Georgellis, and Diener (2003) researched changes in baseline level of well-being due to marital status, birth of first child, and layoff. While they found that a negative life event can have a greater impact on a person's psychological state and happiness set point than a positive event, they concluded that people completely adapt, finally returning to their baseline level of well-being, after divorce, losing a spouse, the birth of a child, and for women losing their job. They did not find a return to baseline for marriage or for layoffs in men. This study also illustrated that the amount of adaptation depends on the individual.\n\nWildeman, Turney, and Schnittker (2014) studied the effects of imprisonment on one's baseline level of well-being. They researched how being in jail affects one's level of happiness both short term (while in prison) and long term (after being released). They found that being in prison has negative effects on one's baseline well-being; in other words one's baseline of happiness is lower in prison than when not in prison. Once people were released from prison, they were able to bounce back to their previous level of happiness.\n\nSilver (1982) researched the effects of a traumatic accident on one's baseline level of happiness. Silver found that accident victims were able to return to a happiness set point after a period of time. For eight weeks, Silver followed accident victims who had sustained severe spinal cord injuries. About a week after their accident, Silver observed that the victims were experiencing much stronger negative emotions than positive ones. By the eighth and final week, the victims' positive emotions outweighed their negative ones. The results of this study suggest that regardless of whether the life event is significantly negative or positive, people will almost always return to their happiness baseline.\n\nFujita and Diener (2005) studied the stability of one's level of subjective well-being over time and found that for most people, there is a relatively small range in which their level of satisfaction varies. They asked a panel of 3,608 German residents to rate their current and overall satisfaction with life on a scale of 0-10, once a year for seventeen years. Only 25% of participants exhibited shifts in their level of life satisfaction over the course of the study, with just 9% of participants having experienced significant changes. They also found that those with a higher mean level of life satisfaction had more stable levels of life satisfaction than those with lower levels of satisfaction.\n\nThe concept of the happiness set point (proposed by Sonja Lyubomirsky) can be applied in clinical psychology to help patients return to their hedonic set point when negative events happen. Determining when someone is mentally distant from their happiness set point and what events trigger those changes can be extremely helpful in treating conditions such as depression. When a change occurs, clinical psychologists work with patients to recover from the depressive spell and return to their hedonic set point more quickly. Because acts of kindness often promote long-term well-being, one treatment method is to provide patients with different altruistic activities that can help a person raise his or her hedonic set point. This can in turn be helpful in reducing reckless habits in the pursuit of well-being. Further, helping patients understand that long-term happiness is relatively stable throughout one's life can help to ease anxiety surrounding impactful events.\n\nHedonic adaptation is also relevant to resilience research. Resilience is a \"class of phenomena characterized by patterns of positive adaptation in the context of significant adversity or risk,\" meaning that resilience is largely the ability for one to remain at their hedonic setpoint while going through negative experiences. Psychologists have identified various factors that contribute to a person being resilient, such as positive attachment relationships (see Attachment Theory), positive self-perceptions, self-regulatory skills (see Emotional self-regulation), ties to prosocial organizations (see prosocial behavior), and a positive outlook on life. These factors can contribute to maintaining a happiness set point even in the face of adversity or negative events.\n\nOne critical point made regarding our individual set point is to understand it may simply be a genetic tendency and not a completely determined criterion for happiness, and it can still be influenced. In a study on moderate to excessive drug intake on rats, Ahmed and Koob (1998), sought to demonstrate that the use of mind-altering drugs such as cocaine could change an individual's hedonic set point. Their findings suggest that drug usage and addiction lead to neurochemical adaptations whereby a person needs more of that substance to feel the same levels of pleasure. Thus, drug abuse can have lasting impacts on one's hedonic set point, both in terms of overall happiness and with regard to pleasure felt from drug usage.\n\nGenetic roots of the hedonic set point are also disputed. Sosis (2014) has argued the \"hedonic treadmill\" interpretation of twin studies depends on dubious assumptions. Pairs of identical twins raised apart aren't necessarily raised in substantially different environments. The similarities between twins (such as intelligence or beauty) may invoke similar reactions from the environment. Thus, we might see a notable similarity in happiness levels between twins even though there aren't happiness genes governing affect levels.\n\nFurther, hedonic adaptation may be a more common phenomenon when dealing with positive events as opposed to negative ones. Negativity bias, where people tend to focus more on negative emotions than positive emotions, can be an obstacle in raising one's happiness set point. Negative emotions often require more attention and are generally remembered better, overshadowing any positive experiences that may even outnumber negative experiences. Given that negative events hold more psychological power than positive ones, it may be difficult to create lasting positive change.\n\nHeadey (2008) concluded that an internal locus of control and having \"positive\" personality traits (notably low neuroticism) are the two most significant factors affecting one's subjective well-being. Headey also found that adopting \"non-zero sum\" goals, those which enrich one's relationships with others and with society as a whole (i.e. family-oriented and altruistic goals), increase the level of subjective well-being. Conversely, attaching importance to zero-sum life goals (career success, wealth, and social status) will have a small but nevertheless statistically significant negative impact on people's overall subjective well-being (even though the size of a household's disposable income does have a small, positive impact on subjective well-being). Duration of one's education seems to have no direct bearing on life satisfaction. And, contradicting set point theory, Headey found no return to homeostasis after sustaining a disability or developing a chronic illness. These disabling events are permanent, and thus according to cognitive model of depression, may contribute to depressive thoughts and increase neuroticism (another factor found by Headey to diminish subjective well-being). Disability appears to be the single most important factor affecting human subjective well-being. The impact of disability on subjective well-being is almost twice as large as that of the second strongest factor affecting life satisfaction—the personality trait of neuroticism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43051535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43051535", "title": "Henry Harrington Janeway", "text": "Henry Harrington Janeway\n\nHenry Harrington Janeway (19 March 1873 – 1 February 1921) was an American physician and pioneer of radiation therapy.\n\nJaneway was born in New Brunswick, New Jersey, on 19 March 19th 1873, and died at his home in Riverdale-on-Hudson, New York on 1 February 1921. Janeway was the son of LTC Jacob Jones Janeway (1840 - 1926), a successful New Jersey wallpaper manufacturer and philanthropist, and Eliza A Harrington Janeway (1843 - 1925). He married Elizabeth Ayers Buckley and they had five children. Elizabeth was the daughter of Dr. Lucius Duncan Buckley and Katherine La Rue Mellick.\n\nHe was educated in the Rutgers Preparatory School and graduated from Rutgers College in 1889 followed by post-graduate courses at Sheffield Scientific School, Yale University under Professor Russell Henry Chittenden. Then followed four years in the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, after which (1898) he entered Roosevelt Hospital in the surgical division under Charles McBurney. He studied in the clinics of Roosevelt, Skin and Cancer and Lying-in Hospitals. His first five years were given to general practice in New Brunswick, New Jersey.\n\nIn 1907 he became associated with his father-in-law, Dr. Bulkley, in his dermatological practice. He remained with him for two years, and during that time made investigations in skin and cancer pathology and wrote articles upon this subject.\n\nIn 1909 he was appointed chief of the Laboratory for Experimental Research of Physicians and Surgeons. He did work in blood-pressure, shock and in surgery of the oesophagus and stomach. In 1914 he was appointed Attending Surgeon and Chief of the Radium Department at Memorial Hospital, New York City, where he developed and advanced the use of radium as a therapeutic agent.\n\nJaneway's work with radium in uterine cancer was most notable. He was the first man in this country to advocate radium as the agent of choice in cervical carcinoma; the technique of burying radium emanation in the cervix was original with him and, in fact, all his work with radium emanation needles was primarily original.\n\nHis work on conservative surgery plus radium was early recognized. Various procedures, such as the use of dental-modeling compound for improving technique in applying radium, originated in his clinic.\n\nJaneway's clinical and experimental observations were published in medical journals of his time. His report on \"Radium Therapy in Cancer, at the Memorial Hospital (1915-1916)\", which appeared in book form in 1917 was the most comprehensive work of its type published in the United States. Its first chapter, \"Physical Considerations Relative to the Application of Radium\", was written by Gioacchino Failla. Janeway's 1919 paper on \"The Treatment of Uterine Carcinoma\" was considered a classic and was written while he was Attending Surgeon and Head of the Radium Department at Memorial Hospital in New York. His other papers, lectures, and books include:\n\nIn 1933, the American Radium Society founded the annual Janeway Lecture in his honor. The lecturers are chosen for their \"outstanding scientific contributions\" with the lecture taking place at the society's annual general meeting. The first Janeway Lecture, \"Early Experience in Radium Therapy\" was given by the pathologist James Ewing. Since 1937 each Janeway Lecturer is also presented with the Janeway Medal, originally struck in bronze but in 1971 changed to gold. The medal was designed by Edward H. Skinner, the American Radium Society's president-elect at the time, and Stephanie Prince, a young artist from Kansas City, Missouri. The design is based on Norse mythology and depicts Odin standing before the giant Mimir seeking to drink from the well of knowledge. The obverse depicts the ravens Hugin (Reflection) and Munin (Remembrance) which became the symbol of the American Radium Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41769360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41769360", "title": "Himalayan Cataract Project", "text": "Himalayan Cataract Project\n\nThe Himalayan Cataract Project (HCP) was created in 1994 by Dr. Geoffrey Tabin and Dr. Sanduk Ruit with a goal of establishing a sustainable eye care infrastructure in the Himalaya. HCP empowers local doctors to provide ophthalmic care through skills-transfer and education. From its beginning, HCP responds to a pressing need for eye care in the Himalayan region. With programs in Nepal, Tibet, China, Bhutan, India, Sikkim, and Pakistan they have been able to restore sight to tens of thousands of blind people every year since 1994.\n\nIn addition, HCP's assistance has been requested for a pilot study on eye care services in twelve Millennium Research Villages in Sub-Saharan Africa. The Millennium Villages Project was established in part to prove that successful implementation of the UN Millennium Development Goals is possible in the poorest, most underserved areas of the developing world. HCP has agreed to provide comprehensive eye care in each of the Villages (5,000 per village) and to demonstrate that the costs of these services will fit within the complex U.N. Health Budget for the Millennium Villages Project. So far, interventions have taken place in Uganda, Ethiopia, and Ghana with effective delivery of interventions such as cataract surgeries, refraction and distribution of glasses.\n\nAccording to WHO estimates, the most common causes of blindness around the world in 2002 were:\n\nSuffering from blindness affects not only the blind person but also members of his/her family. Where there are few paved roads and where terrain is rugged and mountainous, a blind person has incredible difficulty moving around and depends on a caretaker. There are no social services available to the blind, and individuals who are blind cannot contribute to family income. A blind person, unable to care for themselves in such a harsh environment requires a help of a family member, which essentially takes two people out of being able to contribute to family income, or community life. With sight restored, many patients would be able to return to work and to traditional roles in their families and societies.\n\n\nIn 1993, there were 15,000 cataract surgeries performed in Nepal, only 1000 of which utilized intraocular lenses. Most of these 1000 modern surgeries were performed by HCP's Co-Director, Dr. Sanduk Ruit, who brought microsurgery with intraocular lens technology to the region. Before this technology, cataract surgery consisted of intracapsular cataract extraction, in which the entire lens and capsule are removed from the eye and the patient is given cumbersome thick eyeglasses that provide no peripheral vision and distorted direct vision. At that time, the second and third leading etiologies of blindness after cataracts were aphakia due to the loss of these thick glasses, and failed cataract surgery.\n\nIn contrast, in 2003, over 118,000 cataract surgeries were performed in Nepal and over 98 percent were done with microsurgery and lens implants. Nepal is the only country in the Himalayan region performing more cataract surgery than the annual rate of new cataract blindness.\n\nThe Himalayan Cataract Project has trained well over thirty surgeons to perform modern sight-restoring cataract surgery through a unique skills-transfer program. HCP utilizes a team approach, where a doctor, a nurse, and an ophthalmic assistant trains for 4–8 weeks at Tilganga. The surgeon takes an intensive microsurgical course, gaining dexterity under the microscope, while the team develops into a finely-tuned unit. The team then returns to its remote clinic, where it prescreens several hundred patients who are blind from cataracts. The HCP teaching surgeons follow and set up a high-volume skills-transfer cataract camp. The teaching surgeons operate on the first eye of each patient, while the training surgeon assists. Then the training surgeon operates on the second eye of each patient while the HCP surgeon assists. In the course of a typical skills-transfer eye camp, more than five hundred blind people will have their sight restored and each local team and surgeon will perform over 100 cataract surgeries. This is more surgeries than an American ophthalmology resident usually does in a three-year residency program. At the conclusion of the session, the Himalayan Cataract Project donates the operating microscope, surgical instruments, intraocular lenses, and consumables needed to perform an additional 500 surgeries. The HCP then follows up with additional training at the local surgeon’s hospital every year for the next three years. Several of the surgeons we have trained are now performing more than 1000 sight-restoring cataract surgeries per year, and have gone on to train other ophthalmologists. The cost of a skills-transfer program, including all equipment and supplies, is usually around US$25,000.\n\nThe Himalayan Cataract Project travels into remote areas where medicine has not yet reached, extending eye care to those who perhaps need it most. In these remote villages where the population is too small to warrant training a doctor, the HCP performs high-volume cataract surgery camps. These camps differ from skills-transfer camps in that the focus is not to train physicians, but to provide eye care to as many people as possible. The goal of these camps is to move patients from total blindness before surgery to having good ambulatory vision on the following day after their eye-patch is removed. Complete vision is typically recovered within one month.\n\nThe cost of one sight restoring surgery, including the intraocular lenses, is $12 US, the most cost-effective intervention in all of medicine. The Himalayan Cataract Project teams are able to run remote eye camps for an average of $4,000 USD . Donors such John and Cecily Leach, who donated the HCP cataract camp bus provide a mobile clinic that gets medical teams to remote locations. Since 1994, Tilganga eye camps have examined nearly 150,000 patients and performed 25,000 eye camp cataract surgeries.\n\nThese programs also reach to Tibet, China, Bhutan, Sikkim, India, West Bengal, and Pakistan and are also rapidly improving eye care by establishing a sustainable eye care infrastructure. Through performing remote cataract camps, HCP has directly restored sight to tens of thousands of blind people in those regions. But the project’s impact goes much further because the HCP’s focus has been on training indigenous surgeons to perform modern cataract surgery.\n\nAll of the Himalayan Cataract Project’s facilities strive to be completely financially self-sustaining through a unique cost-recovery program in which the wealthy patients subsidize the poor patients.\n\nOne third of the patients pay the full US$100 for a complete work-up, modern cataract surgery, and all post-operative care. Twenty percent of the patients pay a smaller amount based on what they are able to pay. The remaining third of the patients receive the cataract surgical care entirely free. With this model, the facilities are able to cover all costs.\n\nTilganga Institute of Ophthalmology (TIOC) is the flagship of the Nepal Eye Program and the current facility was opened in 1994. It is a non profit, community based, non-government organization that is committed to providing eye care services and implementing the Vision 2020 concept of elimination of avoidable blindness. TEC's goal is to act as a model for treatment, research and training, in cooperation with all other eye care centres and organizations in Nepal.\n\nDr. Sanduk Ruit grew up in a remote village in Eastern Nepal. He attended school in India and completed his three-year ophthalmology residency at the prestigious All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi, India. He also completed fellowships in microsurgery in the Netherlands and Australia as well as additional ophthalmic training at the Wilmer Eye Institute of the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and the University of Michigan. In 1986 Dr. Ruit met Professor Fred Hollows from Sydney, Australia while Hollows visited Nepal as a World Health Organization consultant. He went on to study with him for 14 months at Sydney’s Prince of Wales Hospital. Hollows was Ruit’s mentor and inspiration in the work that he does. The two men believed in the right of people with treatable blindness to have their sight restored, and that people in developing countries deserved access to the same quality of care and technology as those in the Developed World. They shared an ambitious vision: the elimination of avoidable blindness in the Himalayan region, a process they believed needed to be driven by local people.\n\nWhen Dr. Ruit returned to Nepal he was instrumental in the formation of the Nepal Eye Program and worked on a large epidemiological survey of blindness in Nepal. He was the first Nepali doctor to perform cataract surgery with intraocular lens implants and pioneered the use of microsurgical extra-capsular cataract extraction with posterior chamber lens implants in remote eye camps. Although other important international organizations sponsored eye camps in the region providing eye care and training local ophthalmologists, the camps established by Dr. Ruit were the first to introduce the use of intraocular lenses in cataract surgery. Put simply, this is the removal of the cataract and insertion of a plastic intraocular lens.\n\nDr. Geoffrey Tabin is Professor of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences and Director of the Division of International Ophthalmology at the John A Moran Eye Center at the University of Utah. He graduated from Yale University and earned a Masters in Philosophy at Oxford on a Marshall Scholarship. He received his MD from Harvard Medical School in 1985. His background in philosophy and ideas of improving health care delivery came together after a climbing trip to Nepal on which he became the first ophthalmologist to summit Mt. Everest.\n\nDr. Tabin and Dr. Ruit vowed to add their own efforts to those of other existing eye care programs, with a goal of overcoming treatable and preventable blindness in the Himalayan region in their lifetime. Dr. Ruit established the Tilganga Eye Centre in 1994 as the first outpatient cataract surgery facility in the Himalayan region. In 1995 Dr. Ruit and Dr. Tabin formally began the Himalayan Cataract Project as a charitable foundation to support their work. From the start, the projects of the Tilganga Eye Centre have been a central focus of the Himalayan Cataract Project.\n\nDr. Tabin spends at least three months per year in Asia working with his Nepalese counterparts directing Tilganga Eye Centre’s efforts to provide an international standard of eye care and participating in the outreach programs. As the director of the Himalayan Cataract Project, he has over ten years experience administering an international charitable organization. He is a leader in both the local ophthalmologic community and the American Academy of Ophthalmology. Dr. Tabin is also the distinguished recipient of the 2008 Outstanding Humanitarian Service Award given by the American Academy of Ophthalmology in recognition of his international humanitarian efforts.\n\nIn June 2013, a new book about HCP's Dr. Tabin and Dr. Ruit will be released by Random House. Written by David Oliver Relin, the co-author of Three Cups of Tea, \"Second Suns: Two Doctors and Their Amazing Quest to Restore Sight and Save Lives\" shines a light on the work of Himalayan Cataract Project ophthalmologists Dr. Geoffrey Tabin and Dr. Sanduk Ruit, who have dedicated their lives to restoring sight to blind people in some of the most isolated, impoverished reaches of developing countries in the Himalaya and Sub-Saharan Africa.\n\n\nIn the December 2009 issue of National Geographic Adventure magazine the feature story (entitled \"The Visionary\") featured Tabin and his work with HCP.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8866584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8866584", "title": "Jebena", "text": "Jebena\n\nThe jebena ( ǧäbäna), is a container used to brew coffee in the Ethiopian and Eritrean traditional coffee ceremony.\n\nThe jebena is usually made of clay and has a neck and pouring spout, and a handle where the neck connects with the base. The jebenas used in Ethiopia commonly have a spout, whereas those utilized in Eritrea usually do not.\n\nTypically, when the coffee boils up through the jebena's neck, it is poured in and out of another container to cool it. The liquid is then poured back into the jebena until it bubbles up. To pour the coffee from the jebena a filter made from horsehair or other material is placed in the spout of the jebena to prevent the grounds from escaping. In Ethiopia, a small pottery cup called a \"sini\" or \"finjal\" is used to contain the coffee poured from the jebena.\n\nIn Ethiopia they use a slightly different variation, theirs having a separate spout lower on the pot for pouring out the coffee.\nIn Eritrea the jebena has only one spout at the top where they pour in the water and grinds and pour out the coffee.\nThere is a small restaurant in Ethiopia made in an image of an Ethiopian jebena figure.\n\n"}
{"id": "30836054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30836054", "title": "Joseph Newhouse", "text": "Joseph Newhouse\n\nPrior to his joining the Faculty at Harvard, he worked for twenty years as an economist at the RAND Corporation, and served as a faculty member of the RAND Graduate School from 1972 to 1988. At RAND, he played a leading role in RAND Health Insurance Experiment. In 2008, he collaborated with the Oregon Health Study team.\n\nHe is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and an elected member of the National Academy of Medicine formerly the Institute of Medicine. He is also a Faculty Research Associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research. He was the Editor of the Journal of Health Economics for 30 years, which he founded in 1981.\n\nHe has received the numerous awards such as the Victor R. Fuchs Lifetime Achievement Award from the American Society of Health Economists, the David Kershaw Prize from the Association for Public Policy Analysis and Management, the Distinguished Investigator Award from the Association for Health Services Research, the Kenneth J. Arrow award in Health Economics from the International Health Economics Association, the Zvi Griliches award for the best paper in Quarterly Journal of Economics, The Hans Sigrist Prize , and the Paul A. Samuelson Certificate of Excellence from TIAA-CREF. He was twice awarded arded article of the year by AcademyHealth. In 1988, he was awarded the Baxter Health Services Research Prize and the Administrator's Citation from the Health Care Financing Administration. He has also been awarded the Hans Sigrist Foundation Prize for distinguished scientific achievement; the American Risk and Insurance Association's Elizur Wright Award for an outstanding contribution to the literature on risk and insurance literature.\n\nHe is the author of many journal articles and several books including \"Free for All: Lessons from the RAND Health Insurance Experiment \"Harvard University Press, 1993, and \"Pricing the Priceless: A Health Care Conundrum\" MIT Press, 2002.\n\nMichael Kobernick Jillian Shank Jefferson Medical College\n\nAs a result of years of research with the RAND Corporation and Harvard University, Joseph Newhouse has become extremely passionate about the instability of our nation's health care system. In his 2002 article, he describes the healthcare systems of the United States as “obtaining less value from the resources it uses than other industries”. Prior to proceeding with an explanation of Newhouse’s issues that lead to poor performance, it is important to understand the definitions of quality from the Institute of Medicine (IOM) and in economic terms. The IOM defines quality as the gap between the actual and potential performance of the US Healthcare system.\n\nIn economic terms, Alan M. Garber and Jonathan Skinner have explored the principles of productive and allocative inefficiency. Productive efficiency refers to the impact of inputs like “physicians, nurses, hospital beds, and capital” on American health care and the authors ask if the impact is greater in other countries (more efficient). Allocative efficiency refers to the benefits from the “marginal dollar spent on health care” and asks the question do the benefits realized “exceed the opportunity cost of other goods” not purchased like raising salaries, a new car, or better education. The authors found that “nearly all countries fall short of ideal in productive efficiency” and the United States system lags behind (is less efficient) other countries most of the time. They found that the U.S. has a high degree of allocative inefficiency, when compared with other high-income countries. The causes are “high prices for inputs, poorly restrained incentives for overutilization, and a tendency to adopt expensive medical innovations rapidly, even when evidence of effectiveness is weak or absent”.\n\nCombining the quality definition by the IOM and economic terms, Newhouse suggests the reasons for poor this performance stem from the following: consumer ignorance, technological change, administered prices, the difficulty in assessing the performance of a given provider, and the role of the private sector. Consumer ignorance is associated with the inability to evaluate if the care provided is correct care and deferral of agency to the physician. The consumer is unable to assure high performance. In focusing on technology, Newhouse indicates that each health care system must keep up with new devices, medicine, and even abide by nationwide use of the EMR to make the most informed decisions for each individual. This rapid pace of change is often difficult to keep up with, resulting in poor quality. Administered prices are determined between the insurer and provider leading to the input cost adapting to the payment, not necessarily the needs of the patient or quality of care. Newhouse thinks a fixed price for goods and services might assure quality, as opposed to the DRG in which the hospital makes the most money by providing the minimum service. Measuring performance is difficult as many outcomes are subjective; without accurate measurement the ability to assess the provider is limited. Finally, Newhouse cites public sector policy, such as, creating barriers to entry into health care professions or using public funding for services result in politically based decisions often not in the best interest of overall quality.\n\nNewhouse’s endeavors successfully delineate the reasons for the quality chasm. He has a few suggestions: greater use of technology to provide better information to the physician during decision making, use of computer decision support systems, better health services research, and better financial incentive design and research.\n\nOther researchers and health care planners have attempted ways of crossing the quality chasm by improving the organization of health care for individuals. Organizational improvements include the primary care medical home, accountable care organizations, and allowing consumers to share in the savings of health payments after selecting coverage that leads to lower costs and higher quality . Some think increasing government regulation may result in improved access to care, reducing social disparities, training of more primary care providers, and enhancing the verification of provider competence in new technologies. As projected by Newhouse, programs to validate the provision of evidence-based care will enhance the safety of health care, as well as, medication reconciliation, check lists in the operating rooms, and care transition management.\n\nAdditional programs to address Newhouse’s problems include payment reform in Medicare to restructure programs, offering a wider range of services, and moving from fee for service to fee for value, which then may result in enhanced engagement of the consumer.5 Increasing the roles and responsibilities of the independent payment advisory board may assist in payment reform as well, in addition to utilizing an electronic medical record to develop reporting systems that may be used for physician and patient evaluation and care gap closure. Increased competition amongst health plans through an insurance exchange may lead to better quality and pricing. Newhouse does an excellent job of describing the problems surrounding the quality chasm and suggesting many interventions to try and cross it.\n\n"}
{"id": "4950024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4950024", "title": "Kaptai Lake", "text": "Kaptai Lake\n\nKaptai Lake is the largest man made lake in Bangladesh. It is located in the Kaptai Upazila under Rangamati District of Chittagong Division. The lake was created as a result of building the Kaptai Dam on the Karnaphuli River, as part of the Karnaphuli Hydro-electric project. The Kaptai Lake's average depth is and maximum depth is .\n\nConstruction of the reservoir for the hydro-electric plant began in 1956 by the Government of East Pakistan. As a result, of farmland in the Rangamati District went under water and created the lake.\nThe hydro-electric project was funded by the United States. The project was finished in 1962.\nInternational Engineering Company and Utah International Inc. received the contract for construction of the dam. The dam is 670.8 meters long, and 54.7 meters high. The dam has a long spillway containing 16 gates. Through the spillway of water can pass.\n\nThe land that went under water as a result of the dam construction, was 40% of the total arable land in the area. Along with that, of the Government-owned forest, and of other forest land went under water. About 18,000 families with a total of almost 100 thousand people were also displaced. The palace of the king of the Chakmas was also flooded and is now under water.\n\nThe ecological damage of the lake recently assessed shows that water pollution due to the use of fertilisers and pesticides around the lake is affecting life in the water. In 1966, the share of big fishes in the total fish production was 78%, by 1993 it had come down to 2%. Also, more than five tons of human excrements and other wastes are reported to flow into the lake every day. As 85% of the population living around the lake depends on the water for drinking, cooking, washing and bathing, health risks have increased sharply. \n\n"}
{"id": "50727426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50727426", "title": "List of biological development disorders", "text": "List of biological development disorders\n\n"}
{"id": "22499486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22499486", "title": "Live Well Network", "text": "Live Well Network\n\nLive Well Network is a home, health and lifestyle high definition digital subchannel network owned by ABC Owned Television Stations, part of the Disney–ABC Television Group, a subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company. The network launched as Live Well HD Network on April 27, 2009, and is available on digital subchannels of all ABC-owned-and-operated stations.\n\nThe channel aired home, health and lifestyle programming and was similar to Ion Life, which launched in 2007, with American Public Television's Create serving as its main competitor. The network ended most national distribution on April 15, 2015, with Media General being the last to remove the network on their stations on May 29. Live Well Network continues to air in HD on the second subchannel of the seven ABC-owned television stations (WLS in Chicago airs it in standard definition). However, it will not produce any new episodes of Live Well programming.\n\nABC Owned Television Stations (ABCOTS) began development of a potential subchannel network in 2007. To appeal to non-ABC affiliates, it was decided not to use ABC branding in any way.\n\nLive Well Network was launched on April 27, 2009 in high definition on ABC's owned-and-operated stations as part of the stations' subchannels. Initially, the network only had three hours of original programming that are looped throughout the day which was all sourced from ABC stations. In September 2010, Belo became the first non-ABC group to sign on with the network, adding it to their stations on November 8, 2010. Not all of the Belo-owned stations originally aired the network in (unlike the ABC group), which led the network to drop the \"HD\" from its branding to become simply \"Live Well Network\".\n\nTwo LWN owned and operated stations, WJRT and WTVG, were sold to Lilly Broadcasting closing on April 1, 2011. On May 26, 2011, it was announced that a deal has been reached to air the network on nine Scripps-owned stations (several, but not all of them, are ABC affiliates). In August 2011, the network picked up CBC Television's Steven and Chris for broadcast starting that fall. \n\nOn January 9, 2012, Citadel Communications announced that it would be adding Live Well to all five (5) of its major network-affiliated stations (four of them ABC affiliates), bringing the network's reach to around 55% U.S. television households. Young Broadcasting announced the addition of most of their stations to the network as of the end of January 2012; carriage agreements were maintained when Young was purchased by Media General in November 2013. \n\nIn 2012, many ABC affiliates switching to the Live Well Network dropped Retro Television Network. A 1-hour two-week LWN block was broadcast on Soapnet weeknights from 11 PM to 12 AM (ET/PT) starting on July 30, 2012 through Friday, August 10, 2012.\n\nThe network lost affiliates in Memphis and Jackson, Tennessee in March 2013 as a result of the sale of Newport Television's stations to Nexstar Broadcasting (Nexstar generally does not carry subchannel networks in any form; WHBF-TV in Rock Island, Illinois, acquired by Nexstar in September 2013, eventually dropped LWN at the start of 2014, but it has since been replaced by a standard-definition simulcast of a sister station in the market). \n\nKMCI-TV in Kansas City, Missouri removed the network in favor of Bounce TV in October 2013, while Salt Lake City, Utah's KSL-TV would add Cozi TV at LWN's expense in January 2014. On February 17, 2014, KMOV in St. Louis dropped the network, as new owner Meredith Corporation plans on using the bandwidth for ATSC M/H mobile DTV, better known by the brand name Dyle (the subchannel was later re-launched to allow the launch of a replacement MyNetworkTV affiliate for the St. Louis area).\n\nThe Phoenix DMA is the largest TV market that did not have a Live Well Network affiliate, since Scripps-owned KNXV-TV (an ABC affiliate) switched to Antenna TV in January 2014, citing viewer demand for the classic TV network as the reason for dropping Live Well.\n\nOn June 9, 2014, network vice president Peggy Allen and ABC Owned Television Stations president Rebecca Campbell jointly announced to Live Well Network's staff that they planned to shut down the network in January 2015. Campbell and Allen stated that despite the success of the network, the division wanted to prioritize \"local content\" and its \"core local news brands\". Some of the network's shows might move over to the fyi cable network, a network ABC holds a half-interest in with Hearst Corporation via the A&E Networks joint venture. Many of the shows from ABC's stations are expected to end production.\n\nOn January 13, 2015 via an announcement by Green Bay affiliate WBAY-TV (and later confirmed by Chicago media writer Robert Feder), ABC announced that the network would be extended for two further months from their previous close date of January 16, 2015 with a revised program schedule to allow their remaining affiliates additional time to find subchannel programming. \n\nTwo days later, ABCOTS and the E. W. Scripps Company announced a pickup of Katz Broadcasting's new subchannel Laff, including the DT3 subchannels of the ABC O&O stations, as of April 15, 2015; within that announcement, ABCOTS stated that Live Well Network would continue on their eight stations on their DT2 subchannels in HD, but no longer be distributed outside of ABC O&O stations. As of April 15, 2015, WBAY and all of the former Young stations now owned by Media General continued to run the network, with no mention of any new alternate programming for those subchannels. On May 29, 2015, Comcast was informed that Media General was dropping Live Well from their stations beginning May 30, 2015. Subsequently, the signal was pulled off the Media General stations at the close of business on May 29, with those stations either carrying still text cards apologizing for the end of the network and announcements of replacement programming to come, or carrying alternate station programming.\n\nMany of the network's shows were produced by the local ABC Owned Television Stations. Initially, the network only had three hours of original programming that looped throughout the day, all sourced from ABC stations. The network expanded to six hours of original programming on January 11, 2011 when six more half-hour shows were added. This allowed the programming block to loop three times daily; with rotating episodes to ensure a given episode would not air more than twice in a day.\n\nBy July 2011, the network was scheduling 18 hours of original programming with 1 hour set aside for local programming. In September 2011, 3 hours of children's E/I shows were added.\n\nIn February 2014, WPVI-TV Philadelphia and LWN were seeking participants for a pilot episode of \"Pop the Question\", a reality series featuring wedding proposals.\n\nFYI, a cable specialty channel partly owned by Disney through A&E Networks, may take on some of the Live Well Network programs with the network's contraction. \"Sweet Retreats\" was picked up starting on by FYI.\n\nThe network broadcasts in a lower-bandwidth form of 720p HD format in order to preserve bandwidth for the main HD station signal and additional 480i digital subchannels.\n\nCable carriage is also featured in the ABC O&O markets (e.g., Xfinity in Chicago, Fresno, Houston, Philadelphia and San Francisco; Spectrum in Los Angeles and the Research Triangle; Altice USA in New York City), either as the full HD feed or a 480i standard definition version. As of December 2017, WLS-TV only carries a standard definition version of the network due to a channel sharing agreement with UniMas station WXFT-DT which requires a high definition broadcast of that station.\nAffiliates were given 1 hour of programming time by July 2011, more than 5 minutes of advertising time per hour and responsibility for gaining cable carriage.\n"}
{"id": "53321997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53321997", "title": "Maria Abbey", "text": "Maria Abbey\n\nMaria Abbey was a nurse during the American Civil War. In Mary G. Holland's collection of letters from Civil War nurses, titled, \"Our Army Nurses: Stories from Women in the Civil War\", Abbey recounts her experience as a wartime nurse. She was called to the service after hearing Reverend H. W. Beecher speak of the duty of women to help during the war. She heard this sermon in April 1861, the Sunday after the battle at Fort Sumter, and enlisted with six other women by the first day of May. These women were some of the first to respond to the call for nurses.\n\nHer service began at Union Hospital at Georgetown. Immediately, Abbey noticed the lack of structure and organization of the hospital, largely due to the immense need for help. Ultimately, the hospital environment proved to be too much physical and emotional stress for Abbey, who left September 3, 1861.\n\nThis did not stop Abbey from aiding the war effort. Abbey opened her own home to be used as a private hospital for two years, maintained by herself. The house continued to operate as a hospital even after Abbey moved. She reportedly never expected payment for her services.\n"}
{"id": "39849717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39849717", "title": "Maternity package", "text": "Maternity package\n\nThe Maternity package (, ) is a kit granted by the Finnish social security institution Kela, to all expectant or adoptive parents who live in Finland or are covered by the Finnish social security system. The package contains children's clothes and other necessary items, such as nappies, bedding, cloth, gauze towels and child-care products. It was first issued in 1938 to parents with a low income, and contained a blanket, crib sheets, diapers, and fabric which parents could use to make clothing for the baby.\n\nSince 1949 it has been given to all mothers-to-be, provided they visited a doctor or municipal pre-natal clinic before the end of their fourth month of pregnancy, and the pregnancy has lasted at least 154 days. The contents of the package are updated approximately every year.\n\nFollowing a BBC story in June 2013, the \"baby box\" began to receive international attention. Similar packages, commercial or state-sponsored, are being trialled around the world.\n\nIn 1949, the box given was standard to all expectant mothers who visited a doctor before the fourth month of pregnancy per the Finnish Maternity Grants Act. A baby bottle was added to the package, but was removed in later packages to encourage breastfeeding. The requirement to visit a doctor as a prerequisite to receiving the package was done in order ensure that the woman received adequate prenatal care.\n\nThe box containing the package transforms into a crib in which many newborns have their first naps. A mother may choose to take the maternity package, or a cash grant of 140 euros, but 95% of Finnish mothers choose the box because it's worth significantly more. The maternity package can either be applied for online, on Kela's website, or by completing and returning a form.\n\nThe current package contents include bodysuits, a sleeping bag, outdoor gear, bathing products for the baby, nappies and cream, bedding and a small mattress (allowing the box to be used as a crib), a hooded bath towel, nail scissors, hairbrush, toothbrush, wash cloth, muslin squares, a picture book, teething toy, bra pads, and condoms.\n\nThe maternity package is not a commercial product, and therefore Kela cannot sell it. Prince William and Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge received a maternity package as a gift from Kela in 2013. Crown Princess Victoria and Prince Daniel of Sweden were given one in 2012.\n\nIn 2017 the box contained following items:\n\n\nThe program resulted in increased prenatal care for pregnant women, and decreased infant mortality. The program is now considered a part of the culture of Finland.\n\nIn July 2015, Argentina's Ministry of Health under then-president Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner introduced \"Plan Qunita\" which distributes maternity packages to parents of newborn babies. At the rollout of the program, about 144,000 Qunitas were issued.\n\nScottish National Party leader Nicola Sturgeon pledged to implement a similar scheme in Scotland in her party's manifesto for the 2016 election, which saw the SNP returned as a minority government. After a three-month pilot scheme in Clackmannanshire and Orkney, the Scottish \"baby box\" began to be issued to all parents with newborns in summer 2017, with over 52,000 such boxes issued in the first twelve months of the program.\n\nIn the summer of 2017, it was announced that the U.S. state of New Jersey would become the first state in the country to adopt the baby box program.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15165130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15165130", "title": "NATO EPVAT testing", "text": "NATO EPVAT testing\n\nNATO EPVAT testing is one of the three recognized classes of procedures used in the world to control the safety and quality of firearms ammunition.\n\nBeside this, there are also the \"Commission Internationale Permanente pour l'Epreuve des Armes à Feu Portatives\" (C.I.P.) class of procedures and the Sporting Arms and Ammunition Manufacturers' Institute (SAAMI) class of procedures.\n\nEPVAT Testing is described in unclassified documents by NATO, more precisely by the AC/225 Army Armaments Group (NAAG).\n\nEPVAT is an abbreviation for \"Electronic Pressure Velocity and Action Time\". Action Time here means the (short amount of) time required between the ignition of the primer and the projectile leaving the barrel. This is a comprehensive procedure for testing ammunition using state-of-the-art instruments and computers. The procedure itself is described in NATO document AC/225 (Com. III/SC.1)D/200.\n\nUnlike the C.I.P. procedures aiming only at the user's safety, the NATO procedures for ammunition testing also includes comprehensive functional quality testing in relation with the intended use. That is, not only the soldier's safety is looked at, but also his capacity to incapacitate the enemy. As a result, for every ammunition order by NATO, a complete acceptance approval on both safety and functionality is performed by both NATO and the relevant ammunition manufacturers in a contradictory fashion.\n\nFor this, a highly accurate and indisputable protocol has been defined by NATO experts using a system of reference cartridges.\n\nThe civilian organisations C.I.P. and SAAMI use less comprehensive test procedures than NATO, but NATO test centres have the advantage that only a few chamberings are in military use. The C.I.P. and SAAMI proof houses must be capable of testing hundreds of different chamberings requiring lots of different test barrels, etc..\n\nIn this system, the ammunition manufacturers, in close cooperation with NATO, have set aside a batch (also termed \"lot\") of ammunition they consider to be of very good quality and representative of ammunition that should be delivered to the armies in the following years. This batch is maintained at approved NATO test centres and distributed to the manufacturers involved. When a new batch (lot) is delivered, a set of 20 reference cartridges are fired to see how they behave with the local equipment and with the current atmospheric conditions. Results are then compared to the reference values, as maintained by NATO and correctors (delta values) are computed. Then, the current batch (lot) of ammunition is fired and the correctors are applied on the measured value giving a result \"comparable\" to the reference itself.\n\nThis test is performed under normal conditions but also by simulating cold polar or hot desert conditions using special cooling equipment and ovens to cool or heat the ammunition under test to the appropriate levels of humidity and temperatures required.\n\nThe minimum proof and performance requirements for small arms ammunition of NATO calibres are covered in STANAGs as follows:\n\nEach weapon and component considered vulnerable to the effects of a rapid change in pressure, for example barrels, breech blocks and bolts, will be tested by firing one dry round at a corrected minimum of 25% over pressure and one oiled round at a corrected minimum of 25% over pressure. 25% over pressure means 25% in excess of the Service Pressure (P). The Service Pressure is defined as the mean pressure generated by the Service Cartridge at a temperature of . Such a high pressure proof is conducted with both the weapon and ammunition conditioned to an ambient temperature of .\n\nEach weapon will be individually tested, from an ammunition lot that produces a minimum corrected mean chamber pressure in accordance with the table below:\n\n\"The above proof round pressure requirements for the 9 mm and 12.7 mm rounds established by the British Ministry of Defence are higher than the current (2008) C.I.P. proof round pressure requirement legislation for the civilian equivalent 9mm Parabellum (C.I.P. P rating 235 MPA / (34,083 psi) and .50 Browning (C.I.P. P rating 370 MPA / (53,663 psi) rounds. The 9×19mm NATO and 12.7×99mm NATO rounds can be regarded as overpressure ammunition\"\n\nUnlike the civilian C.I.P. test procedures NATO EPVAT testing procedures for the \"NATO chamberings\" require the pressure sensor or transducer to be mounted ahead of the case mouth. The advantage of this mounting position is that there is no need to drill the cartridge case to mount the transducer. Drilling prior to firing is always a time consuming process (fast quality control and feedback to production is essential during the ammunition manufacturing process). The disadvantage of this mount is that the pressure rises much faster than in a drilled cartridge case. This causes high frequency oscillations of the pressure sensor (approx 200 kHz for a Kistler 6215 transducer) and this requires electronic filtering with the drawback that filtering also affects the lower harmonics where a peak is found causing a slight error in the measurement. This slight error is not always well mastered and this causes a lot of discussion about the filter order, cutoff frequency and its type (Bessel or Butterworth).\n\nDue to NATO EPVAT using technically differing proof test standards than SAAMI and C.I.P., EVPAT pressures cannot be directly compared with SAAMI and C.I.P. pressures.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53610998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53610998", "title": "NHS Providers", "text": "NHS Providers\n\nNHS Providers is a membership organisation and trade association for NHS trusts. It was a section of the NHS Confederation until 2011.\n\nIt operates to negotiate between NHS trusts and the Department of Health.\n\nChris Hopson is the Chief executive.\n"}
{"id": "45665518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45665518", "title": "Nael al-Ajlouni", "text": "Nael al-Ajlouni\n\nNael Jamil al-Ajlouni (died 20 February 2015) was a Jordanian doctor and politician, serving as Health Minister in 1998.\n\nAl-Ajlouni was director of the Jordanian Royal Medical Services with the rank of major general between 26 May 1988 and 15 August 1989. He became Health Minister of Jordan in 1998. After his term as Minister he led a national committee looking into the possibilities of universal health care coverage.\n\nIn January 2010 al-Ajlouni became member of the board of trustees of the Jordanian National Centre for Human Rights. He died on 20 February 2015.\n"}
{"id": "48892455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48892455", "title": "Neonatal infection", "text": "Neonatal infection\n\nNeonatal infections are infections of the neonate (newborn) acquired during prenatal development or in the first four weeks of life (neonatal period). Neonatal infections may be contracted by mother to child transmission, in the birth canal during childbirth, or contracted after birth. Some neonatal infections are apparent soon after delivery, while others may develop in the postnatal period. Some neonatal infections such as HIV, hepatitis B, and malaria do not become apparent until much later.\n\nThere is a higher risk of infection for preterm or low birth weight neonates. Infant respiratory distress syndrome is often a condition of preterm neonates that can have long-term negative consequences, it can also arise following an infection. In some instances, neonatal respiratory tract diseases may increase the susceptibility to future respiratory infections and inflammatory responses related to lung disease.\n\nAntibiotics can be effective for neonatal infections, especially when the pathogen is quickly identified. Instead of relying solely on culturing techniques, pathogen identification has improved substantially with advancing technology; however, neonate mortality reduction has not kept pace and remains 20% to 50%. While preterm neonates are at a particularly high risk, all neonates can develop infection. Neonatal infection may also be associated with premature rupture of membranes (breakage of the amniotic sac) which substantially increases the risk of neonatal sepsis by allowing passage for bacteria to enter the womb prior to the birth of the infant. Neonatal infection can be distressing to the family and it initiates concentrated effort to treat it by clinicians. Research to improve treatment of infections and prophylactic treatment of the mother to avoid infections of the infant is ongoing.\n\nIn industrialized countries, treatment for neonatal infections takes place in the neonatal intensive care unit. The causes and reasons for neonatal infection are many. The origin of infectious bacteria and some other pathogens is often the maternal gastrointestinal and genitourinary tract. Many of the maternal infections with these organisms are asymptomatic in the mother. Other maternal infections that may be transmitted to the infant in utero or during birth are bacterial and viral sexually transmitted infections. The infant's ability to resist infection is limited by its immature immune system. The causative agents of neonatal infection are bacteria, viruses, and fungi. In addition, the immune system of the neonate may respond in ways that can create problems that complicate treatment, such as the release of inflammatory chemicals. Congenital defects of the immune system also affect the infants ability to fight off the infection.\n\nGroup B streptococcus are typically identified as the cause of the majority of early-onset infections in the neonate.\nThis pathogen is vertically transmitted (transmitted directly from the mother) to the infant. Enteric bacilli that originate from the digestive system of the mother have become as prevalent as the group B streptococcus pathogens and are currently as likely to cause infection. With the advances in preventing group B streptococcus infections, β-lactam-resistant \"Escherichia coli\" infections have increased in causing neonatal deaths in very low birthweight and premature infants. Infections with \"Staphylococcus aureus\" are also diagnosed, but not as frequently as group B streptococcus infections.\n\n\"Listeria monocytogenes\" can also cause infection acquired from tainted food and present in the mother. The presence of this pathogen can sometimes be determined by the symptoms that appear as a gastrointestinal illness in the mother. The mother acquires infection from ingesting food that contains animal products such as hot dogs, unpasteurized milk, delicatessen meats, and cheese.\n\nNeonatal infection can also occur in term and post-term infants. Infections that develop one month after the birth of the infant are more likely due to Gram-positive bacteria and coagulase positive staphylococci.\nAcquired maternal infection and subsequent inflammation from \"Ureaplasma urealyticum\" is accompanied by a strong immune response and is correlated with the need for prolonged mechanical ventilation.\n\n\"Clostridium tetani\" can cause a generalised form of tetanus in the neonate. This usually occurs when the mother has not been vaccinated against tetanus and the baby has not acquired passive immunity. The umbilical cord region is the most susceptible.\n\nOther bacterial pathogens include \"Streptococcus agalactiae\", \"Streptococcus pyogenes\", \"Viridans streptococci\", \"Streptococcus pneumoniae\", \"Haemophilus influenzae\", and \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\".\n\nHuman immunodeficiency virus type I (HIV) infection can occur during labor and delivery, in utero through mother-to-child transmission or postnatally by way of breastfeeding. Transmission can occur during pregnancy, delivery or breastfeeding. Most transmission occurs during delivery. In women with low detectable levels of the virus, the incidence of transmission is lower. Transmission risk can be reduced by:\nA low number of women whose HIV status are unknown until after the birth, do not benefit from interventions that could help lower the risk of mother-to-child HIV transmission.\n\nSixty percent of mothers of preterm infants are infected with cytomegalovirus (CMV). Infection is asymptomatic in most instances but 9% to 12% of postnatally infected low birth weight, preterm infants have severe, sepsis-like infection. CMV infection duration can be long and result in pneumonitis in association with fibrosis. CMV infection in infants has an unexpected effect on the white blood cells of the immune system causing them to prematurely age. This leads to a reduced immune response similar to that found in the elderly.\n\nHerpes simplex virus (HSV) can infect the infant during birth. Most women with HVS genital herpes develop asymptomatic infection during pregnancy. HVS inoculation from mother to fetus has a high likelihood of occurring. Mothers who are treated with antiviral prophylaxis are less prone to have an active, symptomatic case at the time of birth. Mothers who have received prophylactic antiviral medication have been shown to be less likely to require a cesarean section. At delivery, mothers treated with antiviral medication are less likely to have a viral shedding at the time of birth.\n\nZika fever is caused by a virus that is acquired by the mother and then transmitted to the infant in utero. The CDC is concerned with the potential that this viral infection may cause microcephaly in newborns.\n\nCongential rubella is still a risk with higher risk among immigrant women from countries without adequate vaccination programs.\n\nOther viral infections such as respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), metapneumovirus (hMPV), rhinovirus, parainfluenza (PIV), and human coronavirus in the neonatal period are associated with recurrent wheezing in later childhood. RSV infections can be prolonged. Premature infants born at less than 32 weeks gestation have more days of cough and wheeze at 1 year of age than those uninfected with RSV.\n\nIn very low birth weight infants (VLBWI), systemic fungus infection is a hospital-acquired infection with serious consequences. The pathogens are usually \"Candida albicans\" and \"Candida parapsilosis\". A small percentage of fungal infections are caused by \"Aspergillus\", \"Zygomycetes\", \"Malassezia\", and \"Trichosporon\". Infection is usually late-onset. Up to 9% of VLBWI with birth weights of <1,000 g develop these fungus infections leading to sepsis or meningitis. As many as one-third of these infants can die. Candidiasis is associated with retinopathy, prematurity and negative neurodevelopmental consequences. Candida can colonize the gastrointestinal tract of low birthweight infants (LBI). This gastrointestinal colonization is often a precursor to a more serious invasive infection. The risk of serious candida infection increases when multiple factors are present. These are: thrombocytopenia, the presence of candidal dermatitis, the use of systemic steroids, birth weights of <1,000 g, presence of a central catheter, postponing enteral feeding, vaginal delivery, and the amount of time broad-spectrum antibiotics were given.\n\nInfants born with malaria can be infected with a variety of species; \"Plasmodium vivax\", \"Plasmodium malariae\", \"Plasmodium ovale\", and \"Plasmodium falciparum\". In most instances of congenital marlaria is caused by \"P. vivax\" and \"P. falciparum\". Women living in areas where malaria is prevalent and common are repeatedly exposed to malaria. In response to maternal infection, mothers develop antimalarial antibodies. It is probable that the antibodies present in the mother offers protection for the baby. Bacterial infection can develop with malaria.\n\nInfants that are infected by the protozoan\"Toxoplasma gondii\" in utero can be born with chorioretinitis or ocular toxoplasmosis. Globally, it is the most common cause of infections of the back of the eye. (posterior segment). The most common sign is decreased vision in one eye. Other signs and symptoms may appear after the neonatal period and include: chorioretinitis development later in life, intracranial calcification hydrocephalus or central nervous system abnormalities.\n\nRisk factors are those conditions which increase the likelihood that an infant will be born with or develop an infection. \n\nThe risk for developing catheter-related infections is offset by the increased survival rate of premature infants that have early onset sepsis. Intravenous administration of prophylactic immunoglobin enhances immunity of the immature infant and is used for treatment.\n\nInflammation accompanies infection and is likely to complicate treatment and recovery. Inflammation is linked to reduced growth of the lungs of the premature baby.\n\nThe recent identification of the presence of microorganisms in maternal-infant body fluids that were previously thought to be sterile has provided one explanation for the presence of the inflammatory response in both the mother and infant. Sixty-one percent of pregnant women with chorioamnionitis, or inflammation of the amniotic fluid, were found to be infected by microorganisms. Often, more than one pathogen was present. In fifteen percent of pregnant women inflammation was still evident even though there was no evidence of pathogens. This may indicate that there are other causes. A high percentage, 51% to 62%, of pregnant women who had chorioamnionitis also had inflammation of the placenta.\nDiagnosis of infection is based upon the recovery of the pathogen or pathogens from the typically sterile sites in the mother or the baby. Unfortunately, as many half of pregnant women are asymptomatic with a gonorrhea infection and other sexually transmitted infections. Samples are obtained from urine, blood or cerebrospinal fluid. Diagnosis of infection can also be aided by the use of more nonspecific tests such as determining the total white blood cell count, cytokine levels and other blood tests and signs.\nSymptoms and the isolation of the virus pathogen the upper respiratory tract is diagnostic. Virus identification is specific immunologic methods and PCR. The presence of the virus can be rapidly confirmed by the detection of the virus antigen. The methods and materials used for identifying the RSV virus has a specificity and sensitivity approaching 85% to 95%. Not all studies confirm this sensitivity. Antigen detection has comparatively lower sensitivity rates that approach 65% to 75%.\n\nCongential malaria has its own set of signs:\n\nNeonatal sepsis of the newborn is an infection that has spread through the entire body. The inflammatory response to this systematic infection can be as serious as the infection itself. In infants that weigh under 1500 g, sepsis is the most common cause of death. Three to four percent of infants per 1000 births contract sepsis. The mortality rate from sepsis is near 25%. Infected sepsis in an infant can be identified by culturing the blood and spinal fluid and if suspected, intravenous antibiotics are usually started. Lumbar puncture is controversial because in some cases it has found not to be necessary while concurrently, without it estimates of missing up to one third of infants with meningitis is predicted. \nTo reduce neonatal infection, screening of pregnant women for HIV, hepatitis B, and syphilis, is available in the UK.\n\nTreatment with an vaginal antibiotic wash prior to birth does not prevent infection with group B streptococcus bacteria (GBS). Treatment with vaginal chlorhexidine prior to birth does not prevent neonatal infections.\n\nBecause GBS bacteria can colonize the lower reproductive tract of 30% of women, typically pregnant women are tested for this pathogen from 35 to 37 weeks of pregnancy. Before delivery treatment of the mother with antibiotics reduces the rate of neonatal infection. Prevention of the infection of the baby is done by treating the mother with penicillin. Since the adoption of this prophylatic treatment, infant mortality from GBS infection has decreased by 80%.\n\nMothers with symptomatic genital herpes and who are treated with antiviral prophylaxis are less prone to have an active, symptomatic case at the time of birth and it may be able to reduce the risk of passing on HSV during birth. Cesarean delivery reduces the risk of infection of the infant.\n\nBreastfeeding has been shown to protect the neonate from some infections. . Breast milk protects against necrotizing enterocolitis.\n\nNeonatal infection treatment is typically started before the diagnosis of the cause can be confirmed. \nNeonatal infection can be prophylactically treated with antibiotics. Maternal treatment with antibiotics is primarily used to protect against group B streptococcus.\n\nWomen with a history of genital herpes, can be treated with antiviral drugs to prevent symptomatic lesions and viral shedding that could infect the infant at birth. The antiviral medications used include acyclovir, penciclovir, valacyclovir, and famciclovir. Only very small amounts of the drug can be detected in the fetus. There are no increases in drug-related abnormalities in the infant that could be attributed to acyclovir. Long-term effects of antiviral medications have not been evaluated for their effects after growth and development of the child occurs. Neutropenia can be a complication of acyclovir treatment of neonatal HSV infection, but is usually transient. Treatment with immunoglobulin therapy has not been proven to be effective.\n\nUp to 3.3 million newborns die each year and 23.4% of these die of neonatal infection. About half of the deaths caused by sepsis or pneumonia happen in the first week postpartum. In industrialized countries, prophylactic antibiotic treatment of the mothers identified with group B streptococcus, early identification of sepsis in the newborn, and administration of antibiotics to the newborn has reduced mortality. Neonatal herpes in North America is estimated to be from 5 – 80 per 100,000 live births. HSV has a lower prevalence in mothers outside the United States. In the United Kingdom the incidence is much lower and estimated to be 1.6 per 100,000 live births. Approximately 70% to 80% of infected infants are born to mothers with no reported history of HSV infection.\n\nRegions with low neonatal mortality include Europe, the Western Pacific, and the Americas, which have sepsis rates that account for 9.1% to 15.3% of the total neonatal deaths worldwide. This is in contrast with the 22.5 to 27.2% percentage of total deaths in resource-poor countries such as Nigeria, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, India, Pakistan, and China.\n\nIn the UK, the proportions of pregnant women who are newly screened positive for hepatitis B, syphilis, and HIV have remained constant since 2010 at about 0.4%, 0.14% and 0.15%, respectively. Estimated prevalence levels among pregnant women for hepatitis B and HIV, including previous diagnoses, were higher at 0.67% and 0.27%. Pregnant women evaluated as susceptible to rubella due to low antibody levels have increased by over 60%, to about 7.2%. However, this increase is probably due to changes in testing methods and evaluation criteria.\n\nIn North America, prior to the 1950s, group A β-hemolytic streptococcus (GAS) was the most common pathogen associated with neonatal sepsis prior to the 1960s. In the past twenty years, the most common pathogen causing sepsis is coagulase-negative staphylococci that exist as biofilms associated with infected central venous or arterial catheters. Infections can be fatal and contribute to long-term morbidity and disability among the infants who survive into childhood. Neonatal sepsis effects 128 cases per 1000 live births. Meningitis can occur in the septic infant.\n\nExpectant mothers with HVS have a 75% chance of at least one flare-up during their pregnancy. In limited studies it was found that infants in Africa born to mothers with malaria have a 7% of acquiring congenital malaria.\n\nEarly onset sepsis can occur in the first week of life. It usually is apparent on the first day after birth. This type of infection is usually acquired before the birth of the infant. Premature rupture of membranes and other obstetrical complications can add to the risk of early-onset sepsis. If the amniotic membrane has been ruptured greater than 18 hours before delivery the infant may be at more risk for this complication. Prematurity, low birth weight, chorioamnionitis, maternal urinary tract infection and/or maternal fever are complications that increase the risk for early-onset sepsis. Early onset sepsis is indicated by serious respiratory symptoms. The infant usually suffers from pneumonia, hypothermia, or shock. The mortality rate is 30 to 50%.\n\nInfections that occur after the first week of life but before the age of 30 days are considered late onset infections. Obstetrical and maternal complications are not typically the cause of these late onset infections; they are usually acquired by the infant in the hospital neonatal intensive care unit. The widespread use of broad-spectrum antibiotics in the nursery intensive care unit can cause a higher prevalence of invasive antibiotic resistant bacteria. Meconium aspiration syndrome has a mortality rate just over 4%. This accounts for 2% for all neonatal deaths.\n\nThe susceptibility to risk of infection and immune deficiencies are active areas of research. Studies regarding the role of viruses in neonatal infections are lacking. Research also continues into the role and protective effect of gut, skin and other human microbiomes and the colonization during the neonatal period. The comparison between resource rich countries and resource poor countries makes it somewhat difficult to compare the diagnosis success since industrialized regions are able to confirm the diagnosis and presence of pathogens in the clinical laboratory. Clinical testing may not be available in all settings and clinicians must rely on the signs of infection in the newborn. Research data from Africa and Southeast Asia is scarce.\n\nThe result of some research has been the identification of diagnostic tools and procedures that could identify mothers with group B streptococcus infection in resource-poor regions. These procedures would be easy and inexpensive to use. Those mothers who are identified as being infected could then be prophylactly treated prior to the birth of the baby.\n\nProbiotic administration of Lactobacillus species has shown some success.\n\nA GBS vaccine is currently being tested but not currently available. Vaccination is estimated to being able to prevent 4% of GBS infections for preterm births and 60–70% for neonatal GBS infections in the US. The projected benefits of maternal vaccination is the prevention of 899 cases of GBS disease and 35 deaths among infants. The cost savings in the prevention of GBS may be over 43 million dollars. Vaccination may be especially beneficial in low to middle income countries where screening and prophylactic treatment is not possible. Analysts project that GBS vaccination would prevent 30–54% of infant GBS cases. Screening, prophylactic antibiotics and vaccine would prevent 48% of infection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31948996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31948996", "title": "Occupational Health and Safety Act 2000", "text": "Occupational Health and Safety Act 2000\n\nThe Occupational Health and Safety Act 2000 is a repealed statute of New South Wales (NSW). The Act was repealed by the \"Work Health and Safety Act 2011\".\n\nThe NSW Occupational Health and Safety Act 2000, No 40. (OHS Act) provides the rules and legislation to be abided by all workplaces, to ensure the health, safety and welfare of all persons at work in the state of New South Wales, Australia.\n\nThe full OHS Act 2000, including regulations, reviews and amendments can be found at the NSW Legislation website.\n\n\"An Act to secure the health, safety and welfare of persons at work; to repeal the Occupational Health and Safety Act 1983; and for other purposes.\"\nThe Act was agreed upon on 2 June 2000 and commenced on 1 September 2001. This Act replaced the previous OHS Act 1983 and contains new provisions that require employers to consult with employees on health, safety and welfare matters.\nThe OHS Act is implemented by WorkCover NSW, and applies to all workplaces in NSW, (except as otherwise stated in the Act). Through WorkCover, industry codes of practice are made under the OHS Act, which provide practical guidance and advice on how to achieve the standards required by the OHS Act and the Occupational Health and Safety Regulation 2001. The Minister responsible for the OHS Act, including the approval of the codes of practice is the Minister for Finances and Services. The Minister for Resources and Energy is responsible for sections of the Act that relate to coal or mining workplaces \nThe specific roles and functions of WorkCover are set out in the Workplace Injury Management and Workers Compensation Act 1998 \n. WorkCover can also provide assistance, education, and advice on interpretation of guidelines and issuing of guidelines of the OHS Act and related Regulations.\n\nThe objectives of the OHS Act are:\n\n\nThe Act provides:\n\n\nAny breaches of the OHS Act and its Regulations may be dealt with in a court of Law. The OHS Act may also provide assistance to the Courts in making decisions regarding penalties. For example, in the Industrial Court of NSW, cases were heard regarding an incident at an Oil Seed extraction industry where a bin caught fire, causing explosions which led to the injury of workers and members of the fire brigade, including fatal burns.\n\nInvestigations were carried out by WorkCover Australia and prosecutions brought against the Oil Seed Company, Caines Pty Limited and Ors, and the NSW Fire Brigade. The Court found that the employer Caines Pty, the managers of this company and the NSW Fire Brigade had breached Sections 15(1) and 16(1) of the OHS Act and had failed to ensure the health, safety and welfare of their employees. Penalties were decided upon based on section 12 of the OHS Act. A full description of the cases and the outcomes can be found at LawLink NSW - The NSW Industrial Relations Commission Judicial Decisions website \n\nTo date, only one Regulation has been made under the Act, The Occupational Health and Safety Regulation 2001. This Regulation commenced on 1 September 2001 and applies to all places of work except where otherwise stated in the Regulation. This Regulation consolidates previous Regulations, for example those related to Manual Handling and Hazardous substances.\n\nThe Regulation contains guidelines on risk management, workplace consultation, hazardous substances and processes, certification, licenses and permits, among other important matters.\n\nThere are many other associated legislation in NSW which also contain legal requirements regarding health and safety at work, including the Workers Compensation and Injury Management legislation, the Dangerous Goods Act 1975 and the Poisons and Therapeutic Goods Act 1966.\n\nIt was repealed by the Work Health and Safety Act 2011 as of 1 January 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3049487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3049487", "title": "Paracelsianism", "text": "Paracelsianism\n\nParacelsianism (also \"Paracelsism\"; German \"\") was an early modern medical movement based on the theories and therapies of Paracelsus. \nIt developed in the second half of the 16th century, during the decades following Paracelsus' death in 1541, and it flourished during the first half of the 17th century, representing one of the most comprehensive alternatives to learned medicine, the traditional system of therapeutics derived from Galenic physiology. \nBased on the principle of maintaining harmony between the microcosm, Man; and macrocosm, Nature.\n\nParacelsianism fell rapidly into decline in the later 17th century, but left its mark on medical practices; it was responsible for the widespread introduction of mineral therapies and several other formerly esoteric techniques.\n\n"}
{"id": "4916992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4916992", "title": "Phil Harvey", "text": "Phil Harvey\n\nPhil Harvey (born April 25, 1938) is an American entrepreneur, philanthropist and libertarian who has set up large-scale programs that deliver subsidized contraceptives in poor countries. Harvey is the founder and former president of DKT International, the Washington, D.C.-based charity that implements family planning and HIV/AIDS prevention programs in 19 countries across Africa, Asia and Latin America. He is the chief sponsor of the Liberty Project which raises awareness about freedom of speech issues in the U.S. Harvey is also the president of Adam & Eve, the North Carolina–based company that sells sex toys, adult films and condoms. Consequently, he has been called \"one of the most influential figures in the American sex industry today\".\n\nOver these years, Harvey has used profits from Adam & Eve to supplement support from international donors to protect millions of poor couples from unwanted pregnancies and HIV infections. In 2013, DKT International provided 23.6 million couple years of protection (CYPs).\n\nHarvey was born in Evanston, Illinois to William Dow Harvey and Lucy Smith Harvey as the youngest of five siblings on April 25, 1938. He attended Harvard College from 1957 and received his bachelor's degree in 1961 in Slavic languages and literature. Between 1960 and 1962, he did his military service based in Ft. Meade, Maryland, before joining the international charity CARE in 1963 to work in India. His five years' work with CARE on large-scale feeding programs for rapidly growing numbers of Indian children convinced Harvey of the importance of family planning and planted the first seeds in his mind of starting an initiative that could address the issue on a global scale.\n\nHarvey returned to the U.S. in 1969 and enrolled in the University of North Carolina's master's degree program in family planning administration. One of his classmates was Tim Black, a British physician (who went on to found Marie Stopes International, a large British charity also focused on family planning services). Harvey and Black founded Population Services International in 1970 which today works in almost 70 countries with an annual budget of $683 million (2011). Harvey served as executive director of PSI from 1970 to 1977 and remained on the PSI Board until 2003.\n\nHe co-founded Population Services International (PSI) with Tim Black in 1970. He co-founded Adam & Eve in 1972 and continues as its president. He founded DKT International in 1989 and stepped down as its president and chief executive on Dec. 31, 2013.\n\nHarvey's operational philosophy is unique: it combines altruism with strong business models. Adam & Eve is one of the largest sex product companies in the world. Harvey's share of profits from it support DKT International which sells low-priced contraceptives by using business channels that are found in every corner of the world, including in low-resource settings. Special projects, such as those with the military in Ethiopia (which obliges all soldiers to carry condoms when they leave the base) or with local medical practitioners in India who make a small profit selling condoms, extend and supplement this approach and ensure the products are widely available.\n\nHarvey realized the potential of mail order when, at the University of North Carolina, he joined forces with Tim Black to begin selling condoms through the mail. Their efforts to expand the range of products led to the evolution of the sex products business: in Harvey's own words, \"(w)e tried to get our customers to buy leisure wear, shipbuilding kits, belt buckles, model airplanes, but they just yawned at that stuff. Every time we put something with erotic appeal in the catalog, the bells would ring.\"\n\nProfit from their mail-order business provided the funds to launch Population Services International in 1970.\n\nBetween 1977 and 2007, Harvey was involved in several legal battles with the U.S. and New York state governments in which he both challenged and defended himself against governments he believed were debasing First Amendment rights. As executive director of PSI in 1977, Harvey took on New York Governor Hugh Carey in a landmark reproductive health case that went all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court. In \"Carey vs. Population Services International\", the Court found unconstitutional, under the First and Fourteenth Amendments, the New York Education Law that made it a crime (1) for any person to sell or distribute any contraceptives to persons under 16; (2) for anyone other than a licensed pharmacist to distribute contraceptives to anyone; and (3) for anyone, including licensed pharmacists, to advertise or display contraceptives. The 1977 ruling, in combination with subsequent rulings, confirmed that the protection of rights and privacy are not limited to married adults. A syllabus of the 1977 ruling noted that New York State had \"conceded that there is no evidence that teenage extramarital sexual activity increases in proportion to the availability of contraceptives.\"\n\nIn 1986, Adam and Eve's offices in Carrboro, North Carolina were raided by 37 armed local law enforcement agents. For the next six years, Harvey defended himself against multiple indictments for obscenity brought by the Reagan Administration's Department of Justice under Attorney General Edwin Meese. Ultimately, he prevailed in the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals in 1992 after initiating proactive litigation against the U.S. government. Harvey documented this story in his 2001 book \"The Government vs. Erotica: The Siege of Adam & Eve.\"\nWrote Nadine Strossen, then-president of the American Civil Liberties Union, in the foreword of \"The Government vs. Erotica\": \"Phil Harvey not only survived the government's relentless efforts to bully him out of business, as it had done to other businesspeople who also sold constitutionally protected materials to adults who sought those materials. Even more inspiringly, Phil Harvey and his impressive legal team secured new legal precedents and prosecutorial policies that will protect other individuals and businesses from similar government harassment and oppression.\"\n\nIn 1987, while embroiled in the prosecutions of the Reagan Administration, Harvey challenged the U.S. government for its \"Mexico City Policy\", an on-again, off-again policy first enacted by President Ronald Reagan in 1984 which requires all non-governmental organizations (NGOs) receiving federal funding to refrain from performing or promoting abortion services as a method of family planning in other countries. In \"DKT Memorial Fund Ltd. vs. USAID\", Harvey and two foreign NGOs fought to have the Mexico City Policy overturned. Ultimately, the DC Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals ruling contributed to the policy being used only against foreign NGOs, while not invoked against U.S. NGOs. The policy was removed by President Bill Clinton in 1993, re-imposed by George W. Bush in 2001 and removed again by Barack Obama in 2009.\n\nIn 1989, Harvey founded DKT International, named for the late D.K. Tyagi, an early pioneer of family planning in India.\n\nIn 2006, DKT International refused to accept the U.S. government's policy that all NGOs receiving federal funds to fight AIDS or sex trafficking adopt an organization-wide policy opposing prostitution and sex trafficking. Harvey believed that the pledge was a form of coerced speech and that it would interfere with HIV prevention efforts. DKT challenged the pledge as a violation of First Amendment rights, with the support of the American Civil Liberties Union. Judge Emmet G. Sullivan ruled in favor of DKT in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in 2006, but the District of Columbia Court of Appeals reversed the decision the following year. The issue, through a separate case, was argued before the U.S. Supreme Court on April 22, 2013 and that Court, in a 6-2 decision, held that the requirement was an unconstitutional infringement of organizations' free speech rights. The policy is therefore null and void.\n\nOn December 31, 2013, Harvey stepped down as president of DKT after 24 years. He continues to serve DKT as chairman of the Board of Directors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55752527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55752527", "title": "Professional Record Standards Body", "text": "Professional Record Standards Body\n\nThe Professional Record Standards Body was established in the United Kingdom in April 2013 by the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges. Its members are organisations representing those who receive and provide health and social care across the UK, as well as those providing the Information Technology systems. Professor Maureen Baker is the Chair.\n\nIn November 2017 it produced standards setting out what information from screening tests, immunisations and other developmental milestones can be accessed by health and social professionals, parents and guardians.\n"}
{"id": "37027994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37027994", "title": "Registered Health Information Administrator", "text": "Registered Health Information Administrator\n\nRegistered Health Information Administrator (RHIA), previously known as Registered Record Administrator, is a professional certification administered by the American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA) in the United States. Passing the exam results in certification for health information management.\n\nAt the time known as the American Medical Record Association (AMRA), AHIMA began offering the Registered Record Administrator (RRA) certification in the 1970s. In 2000 AHIMA renamed the certification from RRA to Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA).\n\nThe RHIA certification focuses on preparing members for careers in health information and medical records management, including management of the processes and systems that capture and report on health care-related data so that it can be used to evaluate care performance. They design and manage health information systems to ensure they meet medical, legal, and ethical standards. Seeing that each patient's medical record is complete, kept confidential, and safeguarded from individuals not involved with the medical care of the patient are primary responsibilities.\n\nA RHIA certification is a preferred qualification for positions including Health Information Management Director, Clinical Documentation Improvement Professional (CDIP), and Registered Health Information Administrator. In 2009 a RHIA-certified professional in New York City would earn from $45,000 to $75,000 with a bachelor's degree, and up to $100,000 with a master's degree.\n\nAHIMA also offers a Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT) certification for coding professionals with two-year associate degrees and with less emphasis on management responsibilities. In 2005 researchers found that the differences in these certifications, in addition to other accreditations offered by AHIMA and the need for ongoing training, contributed to inconsistent medical record coding.\n\nTo be eligible for RHIA certification, an individual must complete a bachelor's degree in a health information management program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM) or graduate from a foreign association that has a reciprocity agreement with AHIMA. Students focus on a core content area: technology, management development, clinical data management, performance improvement, external forces, clinical foundations, or privacy and security.\n\nIn response to industry demand for health information administrators, some programs began offering accelerated, CAHIIM-accredited postbaccalaureate certificates in health information administration in 2000 to allow experienced enrollees, such as former nurses or business analysts with Masters of Business Administration (MBA), to more quickly take the RHIA exam.\n\nA temporary Proviso has been implemented by the CCHIIM that any Registered Health Information Technicians (RHIT) who meet the following eligibility requirements will be eligible to sit for the RHIA examination during the timeframe of July 1, 2017 through 2021:\n\nMaintaining a RHIA certification requires 30 hours of continuing education units (CEUs) every two years. Of the 30 hours, 80% (or 24 hours) must be in one of the core content areas.\n"}
{"id": "55821253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55821253", "title": "Religious Orders Study", "text": "Religious Orders Study\n\nThe Religious Orders Study conducted at the Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center at Rush University in Chicago is a research project begun in 1994 exploring the effects of aging on the brain. More than 1,000 nuns, priests, and other religious professionals are participating across the United States. The study is finding that cognitive exercise including social activities and learning new skills has a protective effect on brain health and the onset of dementia, while negative psychological factors like anxiety and clinical depression are correlated with cognitive decline.\nThe Religious Orders Study follows the earlier Nun Study.\nInitial funding was provided by the National Institute on Aging in 1993.\n"}
{"id": "35322028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35322028", "title": "The Africa Project", "text": "The Africa Project\n\nThe Africa Project is an all-volunteer non-profit organization founded by volunteers in 2005 that supports outreach programs and services in South Africa's KwaZulu-Natal province. The Africa Project strives to address extreme poverty, HIV, tuberculosis (TB), malnutrition and other issues that affect children and families in South African rural areas. The Africa Project works with local nongovernment organizations (NGO's) who provide services in their communities including the Sizanani Outreach Programme, in Nkandla, South Africa and Duduza Care Centre, in Wasbank, South Africa. The Africa Project welcomes those who wish to make a difference in the lives of children and families in Africa. \"Together, there are so many lives we can change!\"\n"}
{"id": "7292152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7292152", "title": "The Discovery of the Unconscious", "text": "The Discovery of the Unconscious\n\nThe Discovery of the Unconscious: The History and Evolution of Dynamic Psychiatry is a 1970 book by the Swiss medical historian Henri F. Ellenberger. In this study of the history of dynamic psychiatry, Ellenberger provides an account of the early history of psychology covering such figures as Franz Anton Mesmer, Sigmund Freud, Carl Jung, Alfred Adler, and Pierre Janet. The work has become a classic, and has been credited with demolishing the myth of Freud's originality and encouraging scholars to question the scientific validity of psychoanalysis. Critics have questioned the reliability of some of Ellenberger's judgments.\n\n\"The Discovery of the Unconscious\" is a study of the history of dynamic psychiatry that covers the early history of psychology and the work of Freud, Jung, Adler, and Janet. Ellenberger's chapter on Adler uses unpublished materials, including \"Kindheit und Jugend Alfred Adlers bis zum Kontakt mit Sigmund Freud\", a manuscript by the Adler researcher Hans Beckh-Widmanstetter. Ellenberger shows that Freud was dependent on earlier writers, especially Janet. He describes psychoanalysis and analytical psychology as forms of hermeneutics (the art or science of interpretation), comparing both disciplines to the philosophical schools of Graeco-Roman antiquity.\n\nFreud, according to Ellenberger, was heir to the Protestant \"Seelsorge\" or \"Cure of Souls\", a practice that arose after Protestant reformers abolished the ritual of confession. During the 19th century, the idea of unburdening oneself by confessing a shameful secret was gradually transferred from religion to medicine, influencing Mesmer's animal magnetism, and eventually Freud.\n\nEllenberger argues that evaluating Freud's contributions to psychiatry is made difficult by a legend involving two main features that developed around Freud: the first being, \"the theme of the solitary hero struggling against a host of enemies, suffering the 'slings and arrows of outrageous fortune' but triumphing in the end\", and the second, \"the blotting out of the greatest part of the scientific and cultural context in which psychoanalysis developed\". The first aspect rested on exaggeration of the anti-Semitism Freud encountered, as well as overstatement of the hostility of the academic world and the Victorian prejudices that hampered psychoanalysis. The second aspect led to Freud being credited with the achievements of others.\n\nThe psychoanalyst Joel Kovel wrote that \"The Discovery of the Unconscious\" \"contains an elaborate survey of the history of psychoanalytic schools through the first half of the century\", but while he considered the book \"useful because of its encyclopaedic nature\", he concluded that it has \"little critical value or real historical analysis.\" Frank Sulloway's \"Freud, Biologist of the Mind\" (1979) was partly inspired by \"The Discovery of the Unconscious\". The psychologist Hans Eysenck, writing in \"Decline and Fall of the Freudian Empire\" (1985), called \"The Discovery of the Unconscious\" a \"classic\" and an \"excellent book which unveils many of the myths which have accumulated around Freud\".\n\nThe critic Frederick Crews considered \"The Discovery of the Unconscious\" part of a body of research demonstrating that Freud \"was misled by his drive toward heroic fame.\" Crews wrote that the Ellenberger reveals \"the derivative and curiously atavistic position of psychoanalysis in nineteenth century psychiatry\", adding that \"No one who ponders the entirety of Ellenberger's subtly ironic narrative can fail to come away with a sense that psychoanalysis was a high-handed improvisation on Freud's part.\" Crews also credited Ellenberger with a biographical understanding of Freud that \"set a standard that contemporary scholars are still trying to match\", and with demolishing the myth of Freud's originality and encouraging subsequent scholars to question the scientific validity of psychoanalysis.\n\nThe historian Peter Gay described \"The Discovery of the Unconscious\" as useful despite Ellenberger's lack of sympathy for Freud. Writing in \"\" (1988), Gay called the book \"a rather swollen but thoroughly researched nine-hundred-page volume, with long chapters on the early history of psychology, and on Jung, Adler, and Freud.\" Gay added that, \"Though far from elegant, though opinionated and not always reliable in its quick judgments (such as its verdict that Freud was the quintessential Viennese), it is a rich source of information.\" Gay commented that Ellenberger's book is far more comprehensive than Lancelot Law Whyte's \"The Unconscious Before Freud\" (1960).\n\nThe psychiatrist Anthony Stevens made use of Ellenberger's concept of \"creative illness\", a rare condition whose onset usually occurs after a long period of intense intellectual work, in his account of Jung. The historian Paul Robinson described Ellenberger's chapter on Freud as \"irreverent\", writing that Ellenberger's book paved the way for much of the criticism of Freud that followed in the 1980s. The historian of science Roger Smith called \"The Discovery of the Unconscious\" \"a magisterial - and readable - historical study\". The psychologist Louis Breger wrote that \"The Discovery of the Unconscious\" is \"extremely valuable\", and that Ellenberger places Freud's work in context as well as providing illuminating discussions of Adler, Jung, and Janet. The philosopher Mikkel Borch-Jacobsen and the psychologist Sonu Shamdasani called the book a \"monumental work\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31743386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31743386", "title": "Vocational rehabilitation", "text": "Vocational rehabilitation\n\nVocational rehabilitation, also abbreviated VR or voc rehab, is a process which enables persons with functional, psychological, developmental, cognitive, and emotional disabilities or impairments or health disabilities to overcome barriers to accessing, maintaining, or returning to employment or other useful occupation.\n\nVocational rehabilitation can require input from a range of health care professionals and other non-medical disciplines such as disability employment advisers and career counselors. Techniques used can include:\n\nVocational rehabilitation practitioners are often governed by standards of practice. In the United Kingdom these are produced by the Vocational Rehabilitation Association.\n\nThere are different agencies in the United States that run VR programs, including the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "1202647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1202647", "title": "Vínbúð", "text": "Vínbúð\n\nVínbúð (, \"wine shop\") is a chain of 46 stores run by the Icelandic alcohol and tobacco monopoly ÁTVR, locally called ríkið (, \"the State\"). It is Iceland's sole legal vendor of alcohol for off-premises consumption, though in practice, most bars and restaurants will not prevent you from leaving with purchased drinks. High licensing fees make this an expensive option however, and alcohol is always at least twice as expensive outside the Vínbúð.\n\nIceland has very high taxes on alcohol. Historically, this was to curtail consumption. Tax rates in stores are not a percentage of price (such as a sales tax or income tax) but are proportionate to the alcohol content.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54301172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54301172", "title": "Well-being contributing factors", "text": "Well-being contributing factors\n\nWell-being is a much-studied topic in psychology, especially positive psychology. Related concepts are eudaimonia, happiness, flourishing, quality of life, contentment, and meaningful life.\nCentral theories are Diener's tripartite model of subjective well-being, Ryff's Six-factor Model of Psychological Well-being, Corey Keyes' work on flourishing, and Seligman's contributions to positive psychology and his theories on \"authentic happiness\" and P.E.R.M.A.\n\nPositive psychology is concerned with eudaimonia, \"the good life\" or flourishing, living according to what holds the greatest value in life – the factors that contribute the most to a well-lived and fulfilling life. While not attempting a strict definition of the good life, positive psychologists agree that one must live a happy, engaged, and meaningful life in order to experience \"the good life\". Martin Seligman referred to \"the good life\" as \"using your signature strengths every day to produce authentic happiness and abundant gratification\". According to Christopher Peterson, \"eudaimonia trumps hedonism\".\n\nResearch on positive psychology, well-being, eudaimonia and happiness, and the theories of Diener, Ryff, Keyes and Seligmann cover a broad range of levels and topics, including \"the biological, personal, relational, institutional, cultural, and global dimensions of life.\"\n\nThe pursuit of happiness predicts both positive emotions and less depressive symptoms. People who prioritize happiness are more psychologically able, all else held equal.\n\nDifferent ways of measuring well-being reveal different contributing factors. The correlation between two of these, life satisfaction and happiness, in the World Values Survey (1981–2005) is only 0.47. These are different, but related concepts which are used interchangeably outside of academia. Typically, life satisfaction, or evaluative wellbeing is measured with Cantril’s self-anchoring ladder, a questionnaire where wellbeing is rated on a scale from 1–10. Happiness or hedonic/Affective well-being measurement is measured with the positive and negative affect schedule (PANAS), a more complex scale.\n\nThe UK Government's Department of Health compiled a factsheet in 2014, in which it is stated that the key limitations to well-being, quality of life and life satisfaction research are that:\n\nMental health is the strongest individual predictor of life satisfaction. Mental illness is associated with poorer well-being. In fact, mental health is the strongest determinant of quality of life at a later age.\n\nStudies have documented the relationship between anxiety and quality of life.\n\nThe VOXEU analysis of happiness showed the principal determinants of an adult’s life satisfaction to be income, parenting, family break up, mother's mental health and schooling.\nThe factors that explain life satisfaction roughly map (negatively) to those factors that explain misery. They are first and foremost diagnosed depression/anxiety, which explains twice as much as the next factor, physical health (number of medical conditions), that explains just as much variance in subjective well-being between people, as income and whether someone is partnered.\nThese factors count twice as much as each of whether someone is employed and whether they are a non-criminal, which in turn are 3 times as important as years of education.\n\nOverall, the best predictor of an adult's life satisfaction is their emotional health as a child as reported by the mother and child. It trumps factors like the qualifications that someone gets and their behaviour at 16 as reported by the mother. A child and therefore an adult's emotional health is most affected itself by a mother's mental health, which is just over twice as important as family income.\n2/3 as important as family income is parent's involvement, which is 0.1 partial correlation coefficients more important than aggressive parenting (negative), father's unemployment (negative), family conflict (negative) and whether the mother worked in the subject's 1st year of life.\n\nWhether the mother worked thereafter has 0 correlation with well-being, however. In terms of non-family factors, the place where someone goes to secondary school matters a fair bit more than observed family background altogether, which in turn is slightly more important than the place where someone went to primary school.\n\nThe main determinants of affective well-being, by correlation and effect size are:\n\n\nDeterminants that correlate highly with one another, for instance, alternative ways of measuring corruption, are excluded from this list.\n\nOver the last 33 years, a significant decrease in women's happiness leads researchers to believe that men are happier than women. In contrast, a Pew Research Centre survey found that more women are satisfied with their lives than men, overall. Other research has found no gender gap in happiness.\n\nPart of these findings could be due to the way men and women differ in calculating their happiness. Women calculate the positive self-esteem, closeness in their relationships and religion. Men calculate positive self-esteem, active leisure and mental control. Therefore, neither men nor women are at greater risk for being less happy than the other. Earlier in life, women are more likely than men to fulfill their goals (material goals and family life aspirations), thereby increasing their life satisfaction and overall happiness. However, it is later in life that men fulfill their goals, are more satisfied with their family life and financial situation and, as a result, their overall happiness surpasses that of women. Possible explanations include the unequal division of labor within the household, or that women experience more variance (more extremes) in emotion but are \"generally\" happier. Effects of gender on well-being are paradoxical: men report feeling less happy than women, however, women are more susceptible to depression.\n\nA study was conducted by Siamak Khodarahimi to determine the roles of gender and age on positive psychology constructs – psychological hardiness, emotional intelligence, self-efficacy and happiness – among 200 Iranian adolescents and 200 young adults who were questioned through various tests. The study found that the males of the sample showed significantly higher rates in psychological hardiness, emotional intelligence, self-efficacy and happiness than females, regardless of age.\n\nHappiness is partly genetically based. Based on twin studies, 50 percent of a given human's happiness level is genetically determined, 10 percent is affected by life circumstances and situation, and a remaining 40 percent of happiness is subject to self-control.\n\nDetermining whether emotions have a genetic trait or not were studied by David Lykken and Auke Tellegen. They found that up to 80% of a long-term sense of well-being is due to heredity. Basically, our families are important to our eventual emotional lives as adults because they provide us with genetic material that largely determines our base emotional responsiveness to the world. Therefore, genetic makeup is far more important to the long-term quality of our emotional lives than is learned behavior or the quality of our early childhood environment, at least as found in our current socio-economic paradigm. The remaining theoretical 20%, however, still leaves room for significant change in thoughts and behavior from environmental/learned sources that should not be understated, and the interpretation of variance in twin studies is controversial, even among clinical psychologists.\n\nIndividual differences in both overall Eudaimonia, identified loosely with self-control, and in the facets of eudaimonia are inheritable. Evidence from one study supports 5 independent genetic mechanisms underlying the Ryff facets of this trait, leading to a genetic construct of eudaimonia in terms of general self-control, and four subsidiary biological mechanisms enabling the psychological capabilities of purpose, agency, growth, and positive social relations.\n\nIt is generally accepted that happiness is at least in part mediated through dopaminergic, adrenergic and serotonergic metabolism. A correlation has been found between hormone levels and happiness. SSRIs, such as Prozac, are used to adjust the levels of serotonin in the clinically unhappy. Researchers, such as Alexander, have indicated that many peoples usage of narcotics may be the unwitting result of attempts to readjust hormone levels to cope with situations that make them unhappy.\n\nA positive relationship has been found between the volume of gray matter in the right precuneus area of the brain and the subject's subjective happiness score. Meditation based interventions, including mindfulness, have been found to correlate with a significant gray matter increase within the precuneus.\n\nNeuroscience and brain imaging have shown increasing potential for helping science understand happiness and sadness. Though it may be impossible to achieve any comprehensive objective measure of happiness, some physiological correlates to happiness can be measured. Stefan Klein, in his book \"The Science of Happiness\", links the dynamics of neurobiological systems (i.e., dopaminergic, opiate) to the concepts and findings of positive psychology and social psychology.\n\nNobel prize winner Eric Kandel and researcher Cynthia Fu described very accurate diagnoses of depression just by looking at fMRI brain scans.\nBy identifying neural correlates for emotions, scientists may be able to use methods like brain scans to tell us more about the different ways of being \"happy\". Richard Davidson has conducted research to determine which parts of the brain are involved in positive emotions. He found that the left prefrontal cortex is more activated when we are happy and is also associated with greater ability to recover from negative emotions as well as enhanced ability to suppress negative emotions. Davidson found that people can train themselves to increase activation in this area of their brains. It is thought that our brain can change throughout our lives as a result of our experiences; this is known as neuroplasticity.\n\nThe evolutionary perspective offers an alternative approach to understanding happiness and quality of life. Key guiding questions are: What features are included in the brain that allow humans to distinguish between positive and negative states of mind? How do these features improve humans' ability to survive and reproduce? The evolutionary perspective claims that the answers to these questions point towards an understanding of what happiness is about and how to best exploit the capacities of the brain with which humans are endowed. This perspective is presented formally and in detail by the evolutionary biologist Bjørn Grinde in his book \"Darwinian Happiness\".\n\nThere has been a significant focus in past research on adulthood, in regards to well-being and development and although eudaimonia is not a new field of study, there has been little research done in the areas of adolescence and youth. Research that has been done on this age group had previously explored more negative aspects than well-being, such as problem and risk behaviours (i.e. drug and alcohol use).\n\nResearchers who conducted a study in 2013 recognized the absence of adolescents in eudaimonic research and the importance of this developmental stage. Adolescents rapidly face cognitive, social and physical changes, making them prime subjects to study for development and well-being. The \"eudaimonic identity theory\" was used in their research to examine the development of identity through self-discovery and self-realization. They emphasize the personal value found in discovering and appeasing one's “\"daimon\"” (daemon) through subjective experiences that develop eudaimonic happiness from aligning with one's true self.\n\nResearchers focused their studies on PYD (positive youth development) and the \"eudaimonic identity theory\" in the context of three developmental elements: \"self-defining activities\", \"personal expressiveness\" and \"goal-directed behaviours\".\n\nThey determined that adolescents sample multiple \"self-defining activities\"; these activities aid in identity formation, as individuals choose activities that they believe represents who they are. These \"self-defining activities\" also help determine the adolescent's social environments. For example, an adolescent involved in sports, would likely surround themselves with like-minded active and competitive people.\n\n\"Personal expressiveness\", as coined by psychologist A. S. Waterman, are the activities that we choose to express and connect with our “\"daimon\"” through subjective experiences.\n\nFinally, \"goal-directed behaviours\", are developed through goal setting, where individuals work towards identity establishment. Adolescents recognize their passions, abilities and talents and aim to fulfill their goals and behave in a way that appeases their true self.\n\nThe study on adolescents was conducted in Italy, Chile and the United States, which produced slightly varied outcomes. Outcomes were contingent on availability, access and choice of opportunities (activities). Socioeconomic context also affected the results, as not all individuals could access the activities that may be more in-line with their true selves.\n\nThe Personally Expressive Activities Questionnaire (PEAQ) was used to conduct the study. Adolescence was the youngest age group that the PEAQ was used on. The PEAQ asked adolescents to self-report on activities they participate in and describe themselves with \"self-defining activities\". It was reported that 80% of adolescents defined themselves with two to four \"self-defining activities\" signifying an understanding in adolescence of self-concept through the domains of leisure, work and academia.\n\nLeisure activities were found to have the largest impact on individuals because these activities were the most self-directed of the three domains, as adolescents had the choice of activity, and were more likely to be able to align it with their true selves. The study found that subjective experiences were more important than the activities themselves and that adolescents reported higher levels of well-being. They reported that when adolescents express themselves through \"self-defining activities\" across multiple domains, they have a clearer image of themselves, of what they want to achieve and higher wellness. \"Goal-setting\" was found to be a unique predictor; when adolescents work towards goals set by themselves and accomplish them, they are likely to have a clearer emerging identity and higher well-being. Researchers found that more adolescents were happy when they were involved in self-chosen activities because the activities were chosen in line with their true self.\n\nThe midlife crisis may mark the first reliable drop in happiness during an average human's life. Evidence suggests most people generally become happier with age, with the exception of the years 40 – 50, which is the typical age at which a \"crisis\" might occur. Researchers specify that people in both their 20s and 70s are happier than during midlife, although the extent of happiness changes at different rates. For example, feelings of stress and anger tend to decline after age 20, worrying drops after age 50, and enjoyment very slowly declines in adulthood but finally starts to rise after age 50.\nWell-being in late life is more likely to be related to other contextual factors including proximity to death. However most of this terminal decline in well-being could be attributed to other changes in age-normative functional declines including physical health and function. Also, there is growing debate that assumptions that a single population estimate of age-related changes in well-being truly reflects the lived experiences of older adults has been questioned. The use of growth mixture modelling frameworks has allowed researchers to identify homogenous groups of individuals who are more similar to each other than the population based on their level and change in well-being and has shown that most report stable well-being in their late life and in the decade prior to death. These findings are based on decades of data, and control for cohort groups; the data avoids the risk that the drops in happiness during midlife are due to populations' unique midlife experiences, like a war. The studies have also controlled for income, job status and parenting (as opposed to childlessness) to try to isolate the effects of age.\n\nResearchers found support for the notion of age changes inside the individual that affect happiness.\nThis could be for any number of reasons. Psychological factors could include greater awareness of one's self and preferences; an ability to control desires and have more realistic expectations – unrealistic expectations tend to foster unhappiness; moving closer to death may motivate people to pursue personal goals; improved social skills, like forgiveness, may take years to develop – the practice of forgiveness seems linked to higher levels of happiness; or happier people may live longer and are slightly overrepresented in the elderly population. Age-related chemical changes might also play a role.\n\nOther studies have found older individuals reported more health problems, but fewer problems overall. Young adults reported more anger, anxiety, depression, financial problems, troubled relationships and career stress. Researchers also suggest depression in the elderly is often due largely to passivity and inaction – they recommend people continue to undertake activities that bring happiness, even in old age.\n\nThe activity restriction model of depressed affect suggests that stressors that disrupt traditional activities of daily life can lead to a decrease in mental health. The elderly population is vulnerable to activity restriction because of the disabling factors related to age. Increases in scheduled activity as well as social support can decrease the chances of activity restriction.\n\nA study by Keyes found that there are major costs of depression, which 14% of adults experience annually: it impairs social roles; it costs billions each year due to work absenteeism, diminished productivity, and healthcare costs; finally, depression accounts for at least one-third of suicides. Therefore, it is important to study flourishing to learn about what is possible if issues such as depression are tackled and how the ramifications of focusing on the positive make life better not just for one person, but also for others around them.\n\nFlourishing has significant positive aspects magnified when compared to languishing adults and when languishing adults are compared to depressed adults, as explained by Keyes. For example, languishing adults have the same amount of chronic disease as those that are depressed whereas flourishing adults are in exceptionally better physical health. Languishing adults miss as many days at work as depressed adults and, in fact, visit doctors and therapists more than depressed adults.\n\nA strengths-based approach to personal positive change aims to have clinical psychology place an equal weight on both positive and negative functioning when attempting to understand and treat distress. This rationale is based on empirical findings. Because positive characteristics interact with negative life events to predict disorder the exclusive study of negative life events could produce misleading results.\n\nThus, psychologists are looking to use positive psychology to treat patients. Amy Krentzman, among the others, discussed positive intervention as a way to treat patients. She defined positive intervention as a therapy or activity primarily aimed at increasing positive feelings, positive behaviors, or positive cognitions, as opposed to focusing on negative thoughts or dysfunctional behaviors. A way of using positive intervention as a clinical treatment is to use positive activity interventions. Positive activity interventions, or PAIs, are brief self-administered exercises that promote positive feelings, thoughts, and behaviors. Two widely used PAIs are “Three Good Things” and “Best Future Self.” “Three Good Things” requires a patient to daily document, for a week, three events that went well during the day, and the respective cause, or causes (this exercise can be modified with counterfactual thinking, that is, adding the imagination of things had them been worse). “Best Future Self” has a patient “think about their life in the future, and imagine that everything has gone as well as it possibly could. They have worked hard and succeeded at accomplishing all of their life goals. Think of this as the realization of all of their life dreams.” The patient is then asked to write down what they imagined. These positive interventions have been shown to decrease depression, and interventions focusing on strengths and positive emotions can, in fact, be as effective in treating disorder as other more commonly used approaches such as cognitive behavioral therapy. Moreover, the apparent effect of PPIs cannot be caused by publication bias, according to a meta-analysis on 49 studies (2009). PPIs studied included producing gratitude letters, performing optimistic thinking, replaying positive life experiences, and socializing with people.\n\nAlso, in a newer meta-analysis (39 studies, 6,139 participants, 2012), the standardized mean difference was 0.34 higher for subjective well-being, 0.20 for psychological well-being and 0.23 for depression. Three to six months after the intervention, the effects for subjective well-being and psychological well-being were still significant, so effects seem fairly sustainable. However, in high-quality studies the positive effect was weaker, though positive, so authors considered further high-quality studies necessary to strengthen the evidence. They claimed that the above-mentioned meta-analysis (2009) did not put enough weight on the quality of studies.\nPPIs found positive included blessings, kindness practices, taking personal goals, and showing gratitude.\n\nThe interventions called \"Gratitude Journaling\" and \"Three Good Things\" seem to operate via gratitude. There is evidence that, when gratitude journaling, focussing on quality over quantity as well as people more than possessions, yields greater benefits. There is also evidence of a diminished effect from gratitude journaling if it is done more than once or twice a week. Journaling sans gratitude is effective in decreasing negative emotions in general, which suggests that the act of journaling, rather than gratitude alone, is involved in the treatment effect.\n\nPositive psychology seeks to inform clinical psychology of the potential to expand its approach, and of the merit of the possibilities. Given a fair opportunity, positive psychology might well change priorities to better address the breadth and depth of the human experience in clinical settings.\n\nPosttraumatic growth (PTG) is a possible outcome after a traumatic event, besides posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Following a traumatic event, for instance rape, incest, cancer, attack, or combat, \"it is normal to experience debilitating symptoms of depression and anxiety.\" A person who shows PTG however, will experience these negative outcomes for a time and then show an increase in well-being, higher than it was before the trauma occurred. Martin Seligman, a founder of positive psychology, emphasizes that \"arriving at a higher level of psychological functioning than before\" is a key point in PTG. If instead an individual experiences a depressive period but recovers from an incident and returns to their normal level of psychological functioning, they are demonstrating resilience. This suggests that in PTG, the trauma acts as a turning point for the person to achieve greater well-being. Seligman recognizes \"the fact that trauma often sets the stage for growth\" and given the right tools, individuals can make the most of that opportunity.\"\n\nWhen reflecting on a traumatic growth, Seligman suggests using the following five elements to facilitate PTG: understand the response to trauma, reduce anxiety, utilize constructive disclosure, create a trauma narrative, and articulate life principles and stances that are more robust to challenge. Someone experiencing PTG will achieve elements of Seligman’s \"good life\" theory, including a more meaningful and purposeful valuing of life, improved positive relationships, accomplishment, and a more optimistic and open mindset according to the broaden-and-build theory.\n\nThe phenomenon of PTG is applicable to many disciplines. The construct is important not only for just soldiers, emergency responders, and survivors of traumatic events, but on average, for everyday citizens facing typical adversity. One way to expose citizens to stories of PTG is through constructive journalism. Constructive journalism, as defined by PhD student Karen McIntyre at University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, is \"an emerging style of journalism in which positive psychology techniques are applied to news work with the aim of engaging readers by creating more productive news stories, all while maintaining core journalistic functions\". Cathrine Gyldensted, an experienced reporter with a Masters in applied positive psychology and coauthor of two books, demonstrated that typical news reporting, which is associated with negative valence, harms mood. Using PTG to focus on victims' strengths and instances of overcoming adversity encourages readers to implement similar ideals in their own lives. \"So the goal of positive psychology in well-being theory is to measure and to build human flourishing.\" Combining positive psychology constructs like PTG, PERMA, and \"broaden and build\" with journalism could potentially improve affect and inspire individuals about the benefits of positive psychology.\n\nPERMA not only plays a role in our own personal lives but also can be used for public major news stories. With this model, journalists can instead focus on the positives of a story and ask questions about how conflicts or even tragedies have brought people together, how someone has experienced post-traumatic growth, and more. News stories then shift the perspective from a victimizing one to an uplifting one. Positive psychology is slowly but steadily making its way through news reporting via constructive journalism. PERMA helps journalists ask the right questions to continue that progress by bringing the focus of a potentially negative story to the positives and solutions.\n\nFredrickson and Losada postulated in 2005 that the ratio of positive to negative affect, known as the critical positivity ratio, can distinguish individuals that flourish from those that do not. Languishing was characterized by a ratio of positive to negative affect of 2.5. Optimal functioning or flourishing was argued to occur at a ratio of 4.3. The point at which flourishing changes to languishing is called the Losada line and is placed at the positivity ratio of 2.9. Those with higher ratios were claimed to have broader behavioral repertoires, greater flexibility and resilience to adversity, more social resources, and more optimal functioning in many areas of their life. The model also predicted the existence of an upper limit to happiness, reached at a positivity ratio of 11.5. Fredrickson and Losada claimed that at this limit, flourishing begins to disintegrate and productivity and creativity decrease. They suggested as positivity increased, so to \"appropriate negativity\" needs to increase. This was described as time-limited, practicable feedback connected to specific circumstances, i.e. constructive criticism.\n\nThis positivity ratio theory was widely accepted until 2013, when Nick Brown, a graduate student in applied positive psychology, co-authored a paper with Alan Sokal and Harris Friedman, showing that the mathematical basis of the paper was invalid. Fredrickson partially retracted the paper, agreeing that the math may be flawed, but maintaining that the empirical evidence is still valid. Brown and colleagues insist there is no evidence for the critical positivity ratio whatsoever.\n\nMost psychologists focus on a person's most basic emotions. There are thought to be between seven and fifteen basic emotions. The emotions can be combined in many ways to create more subtle variations of emotional experience. This suggests that any attempt to wholly eliminate negative emotions from our life would have the unintended consequence of losing the variety and subtlety of our most profound emotional experiences. Efforts to increase positive emotions will not automatically result in decreased negative emotions, nor will decreased negative emotions necessarily result in increased positive emotions. Russell and Feldman Barrett (1992) described emotional reactions as core affects, which are primitive emotional reactions that are consistently experienced but often not acknowledged; they blend pleasant and unpleasant as well as activated and deactivated dimensions that we carry with us at an almost unconscious level.\n\nEvidence suggests negative emotions can be damaging. In an article titled \"The undoing effect of positive emotions\", Barbara Fredrickson et al. hypothesized positive emotions undo the cardiovascular effects of negative emotions. When people experience stress, they show increased heart rate, higher blood sugar, immune suppression, and other adaptations optimized for immediate action. If unregulated, the prolonged physiological activation can lead to illness, coronary heart disease, and heightened mortality. Both lab and survey research substantiate that positive emotions help people under stress to return to a preferable, healthier physiological baseline. Other research shows that improved mood is one of the various benefits of physical exercise.\n\nThe broaden-and-build theory of positive emotions suggests positive emotions (e.g. happiness, interest, anticipation) broaden one's awareness and encourage novel, varied, and exploratory thoughts and actions. Over time, this broadened behavioral repertoire builds skills and resources. For example, curiosity about a landscape becomes valuable navigational knowledge; pleasant interactions with a stranger become a supportive friendship; aimless physical play becomes exercise and physical excellence. Positive emotions are contrasted with negative emotions, which prompt narrow survival-oriented behaviors. For example, the negative emotion of anxiety leads to the specific fight-or-flight response for immediate survival.\n\nAfter several years of researching disgust, Jonathan Haidt, and others, studied its opposite; the term \"elevation\" was coined. Elevation is a pleasant moral emotion, involving a desire to act morally and do \"good\". As an emotion it has a biological basis, and is sometimes characterized by a feeling of expansion in the chest or a tingling feeling on the skin.\n\nThe term flourishing, in positive psychology, refers to optimal human functioning. It comprises four parts: goodness, generativity, growth, and resilience (Fredrickson, 2005). According to Fredrickson (2005), goodness is made up of: happiness, contentment, and effective performance; generativity is about making life better for future generations, and is defined by “broadened thought-action repertoires and behavioral flexibility”; growth involves the use of personal and social assets; and resilience reflects survival and growth after enduring a hardship. A flourishing life stems from mastering all four of these parts. Two contrasting ideologies are languishing and psychopathology. On the mental health continuum, these are considered intermediate mental health disorders, reflecting someone living an unfulfilled and perhaps meaningless life. Those who languish experience more emotional pain, psychosocial deficiency, restrictions in regular activities, and missed workdays. \nFredrickson & Losada (2005) conducted a study on university students, operationalizing positive and negative affect. Based on a mathematical model which has been strongly criticized, and now been formally withdrawn by Fredrickson as invalid, Fredrickson & Losada claimed to have discovered a critical positivity ratio, above which people would flourish and below which they would not. Although Fredrickson claims that her experimental results are still valid, these experimental results have also been questioned due to poor statistical methodology, and Alan Sokal has pointed out that \"given [Fredrickson and Losada's] experimental design and method of data analysis, no data whatsoever could possibly give any evidence of any nonlinearity in the relationship between \"flourishing\" and the positivity ratio — much less evidence for a sharp discontinuity.\"\n\nAnother study surveyed a U.S. sample of 3,032 adults, aged 25–74. Results showed 17.2 percent of adults were flourishing, while 56.6 percent were moderately mentally healthy. Some common characteristics of a flourishing adult included: educated, older, married and wealthy. The study findings suggest there is room for adults to improve as less than 20 percent of Americans are living a flourishing life. (Keyes, 2002).\n\nBenefits from living a flourishing life emerge from research on the effects of experiencing a high ratio of positive to negative affect. The studied benefits of positive affect are increased responsiveness, \"broadened behavioral repertoires\", increased instinct, and increased perception and imagination. In addition, the good feelings associated with flourishing result in improvements to immune system functioning, cardiovascular recovery, lessened effects of negative affect, and frontal brain asymmetry. Other benefits to those of moderate mental health or moderate levels of flourishing were: stronger psychological and social performance, high resiliency, greater cardiovascular health, and an overall healthier lifestyle (Keyes, 2007). The encountered benefits of flourishing suggest a definition: \"[flourishing] people experience high levels of emotional, psychological and social well being due to vigor and vitality, self-determination, continuous self- growth, close relationships and a meaningful and purposeful life\" (Siang-Yang, 2006, p. 70).\n\nPsychologists Peter Hills and Michael Argyle developed the Oxford Happiness Questionnaire as a broad measure of psychological well-being. The approach was criticized for lacking a theoretical model of happiness and for overlapping too much with related concepts such as self-esteem, sense of purpose, social interest, kindness, sense of humor and aesthetic appreciation.\n\n\"Happiness\" encompasses different emotional and mental phenomena. One method of assessment is Ed Diener's Satisfaction with Life Scale. According to Diener, this five-question survey corresponds well with impressions from friends and family, and low incidence of depression.\n\nRather than long-term, big picture appraisals, some methods attempt to identify the amount of positive affect from one activity to the next. Scientists use beepers to remind volunteers to write down the details of their current situation. Alternatively, volunteers complete detailed diary entries each morning about the day before. A discrepancy arises when researchers compare the results of these short-term \"experience sampling\" methods, with long-term appraisals. Namely, the latter may not be very accurate; people may not know what makes their life pleasant from one moment to the next. For instance, parents' appraisals mention their children as sources of pleasure, while \"experience sampling\" indicates parents were not enjoying caring for their children, compared to other activities.\n\nPsychologist Daniel Kahneman explains this discrepancy by differentiating between happiness according to the \"experiencing self\" compared to the \"remembering self\": when asked to reflect on experiences, memory biases like the Peak-End effect (e.g. we mostly remember the dramatic parts of a vacation, and how it was at the end) play a large role. A striking finding was in a study of colonoscopy patients. Adding 60 seconds to this invasive procedure, Kahneman found participants reported the colonoscopy as \"more\" pleasant. This was attributed to making sure the colonoscopy instrument was not moved during the extra 60 seconds – movement is the source of the most discomfort. Thus, Kahneman was appealing to the remembering self's tendency to focus on the end of the experience. Such findings help explain human error in affective forecasting – people's ability to predict their future emotional states.\n\nHumans exhibit a variety of abilities. This includes an ability of emotional \"Hedonic Adaptation\", an idea suggesting that beauty, fame and money do not generally have lasting effects on happiness (this effect has also been called the Hedonic treadmill). In this vein, some research has suggested that only recent events, meaning those that occurred within the last 3 months, affect happiness levels.\n\nThe tendency to adapt, and therefore return to an earlier level of happiness, is illustrated by studies showing lottery winners are no happier in the years after they've won. Other studies have shown paraplegics are nearly as happy as control groups that are not paralyzed, after equally few years. Daniel Kahneman explains: \"they are not paraplegic full time... It has to do with allocation of attention\". Thus, contrary to our impact biases, lotteries and paraplegia do not change experiences to as great a degree as we would believe.\n\nHowever, in a newer study (2007), winning a medium-sized lottery prize had a lasting mental wellbeing effect of 1.4 GHQ points on Britons even two years after the event. Moreover, adaptation can be a very slow and incomplete process. Distracting life changes such as the death of a spouse or losing one's job can show measurable changes in happiness levels for several years. Even the \"adapted\" paraplegics mentioned above did ultimately report lower levels of pleasure (again, they were happier than one would expect, but not fully adapted). Thus, adaptation is a complex process, and while it \"does\" mitigate the emotional effects of many life events it cannot mitigate them entirely.\n\nThe happiness set point idea is that most people return to an average level of happiness – or a set point – after temporary highs and lows in emotionality. People whose set points lean toward positive emotionality tend to be cheerful most of the time and those whose set points tend to be more negative emotionality tend to gravitate toward pessimism and anxiety. Lykken found that we can influence our level of well-being by creating environments more conductive to feelings of happiness and by working with our genetic makeup. One reason that subjective well-being is for the most part stable is because of the great influence genetics have. Although the events of life have some effect on subjective well-being, the general population returns to their set point.\nIn her book \"The How of Happiness\", Sonja Lyubomirsky similarly argued people's happiness varies around a genetic set point. Diener warns, however, that it is nonsensical to claim that \"happiness is influenced 30–50% by genetics\". Diener explains that the recipe for happiness for an individual always requires genetics, environment, and behaviour too, so it is nonsensical to claim that an individual's happiness is due to only one ingredient.\n\nOnly differences in happiness can be attributed to differences in factors. In other words, Lyubomirsky's research does not discuss happiness in one individual; it discusses differences in happiness between two or more people. Specifically, Lyubomirsky suggests that 30–40% of the difference in happiness levels is due to genetics (i.e. heritable). In other words, still, Diener says it makes no sense to say one person's happiness is \"due 50% to genetics\", but it does make sense to say one person's difference in happiness is 50% due to differences in their genetics (and the rest is due to behaviour and environment).\n\nFindings from twin studies support the findings just mentioned. Twins reared apart had nearly the same levels of happiness thereby suggesting the environment is not entirely responsible for differences in people's happiness. Importantly, an individual's baseline happiness is not \"entirely\" determined by genetics, and not even by early life influences on one's genetics. Whether or not a person manages to elevate their baseline to the heights of their genetic possibilities depends partly on several factors, including actions and habits. Some happiness-boosting habits seem to include gratitude, appreciation, and even altruistic behavior. Other research-based habits and techniques for increasing happiness are discussed on this page.\n\nBesides the development of new habits, the use of antidepressants, effective exercise, and a healthier diet have proven to affect mood significantly. There is evidence that a vegan diet reduces stress and anxiety. Exercise is sometimes called the \"miracle\" or \"wonder\" drug – alluding to the wide variety of proven benefits it provides.\nIt is worth mentioning that a recent book, \"Anatomy of an Epidemic\", challenges the use of non-conservative usage of medications for mental patients, specially with respect to their long-term positive feedback effects.\n\nYongey Mingyur Rinpoche has said that neuro scientists have found that with meditation, an individual's happiness baseline can change. and meditation has been found to increase happiness in several studies.A study on Brahma Kumaris Raja yoga meditators showed them having higher happiness (Oxford happiness questionnaire) than the control group.\n\nIn recent large panel studies divorce, death of a spouse, unemployment, disability and similar events have been shown to change the long-term subjective well-being, even though some adaptation does occur and inborn factors affect this.\n\nFujita and Diener found that 24% of people changed significantly between the first five years of the study and the last five years. Almost one in four people showed changes in their well-being over the years; indeed sometimes those changes were quite dramatic. Bruce Headey found that 5–6% of people dramatically increased their life satisfaction over a 15- to 20-year period and that the goals people pursued significantly affected their life satisfaction.\n\nThe easiest and best possible way to increase one's happiness is by doing something that increases the ratio of positive to negative emotions. Contrary to some beliefs, in many scenarios, people are actually very good at determining what will increase their positive emotions. There have been many techniques developed to help increase one's happiness.\n\nA first technique is known as the \"Sustainable Happiness Model (SHM).\" This model proposes that long-term happiness is determined upon: (1) one's genetically determined set-point, (2) circumstantial factors, and (3) intentional activities. Lyubomirsky, Sheldon and Schkade suggest to make these changes in the correct way in order to have long-term happiness. Another suggestion of how to increase one's happiness is through a procedure called \"Hope Training.\" Hope Training is primarily focused on hope due to the belief that hope drives the positive emotions of well-being. This training is based on the hope theory, which states that well-being can increase once people have developed goals and believe themselves to achieve those goals. One of the main purposes of hope training is to eliminate individuals from false hope syndrome. False hope syndrome particularly occurs when one believes that changing their behavior is easy and the outcomes of the change will be evidenced in a short period of time.\n\nThere are coaching procedures based on positive psychology, which are backed by scientific research, with availability of intervention tools and assessments that positive psychology trained coaches can utilize to support the coaching process. Positive psychology coaching uses scientific evidence and insights gained in these areas to work with clients in their goals.\n\nPhilip Zimbardo suggests we might also analyze happiness from a \"time perspective\". He suggested the sorting of people's focus in life by valence (positive or negative) and also by their time perspective (past, present, or future orientation). Doing so may reveal some individual conflicts, not over whether an activity is enjoyed, but whether one prefers to risk delaying gratification further. Zimbardo also believes research reveals an optimal balance of perspectives for a happy life; commenting, our focus on reliving positive aspects of our past should be high, followed by time spent believing in a positive future, and finally spending a moderate (but not excessive) amount of time in enjoyment of the present.\n\nIn the 1970s Csikszentmihalyi's started to study \"flow\", a state of absorption where one's abilities are well-matched to the demands at-hand. Flow is characterized by intense concentration, loss of self-awareness, a feeling of being perfectly challenged (neither bored nor overwhelmed), and a sense \"time is flying\". Flow is intrinsically rewarding; it can also assist in the achievement of goals (e.g., winning a game) or improving skills (e.g., becoming a better chess player). Anyone can experience flow, in different domains, such as play, creativity, and work.\n\nFlow is achieved when the challenge of the situation meets one's personal abilities. A mismatch of challenge for someone of low skills results in a state of anxiety; insufficient challenge for someone highly skilled results in boredom. The effect of challenging situations means that flow is often temporarily exciting and variously stressful, but this is considered Eustress, which is also known as \"good\" stress. Eustress is arguably less harmful than chronic stress, although the pathways of stress-related systems are similar. Both can create a \"wear and tear\" effect; however, the differing physiological elements and added psychological benefits of eustress might well balance any wear and tear experienced.\n\nCsikszentmihalyi identified nine indicator elements of flow:\n1. Clear goals exist every step of the way, 2. Immediate feedback guides one's action, 3. There is a balance between challenges and abilities, 4. Action and awareness are merged, 5. Distractions are excluded from consciousness, 6. Failure is not worrisome, 7. Self-consciousness disappears, 8. Sense of time is distorted, and 9. The activity becomes \"autotelic\" (an end in itself, done for its own sake) His studies also show that flow is greater during work while happiness is greater during leisure activities.\n\nArguably, some people pursue ineffective shortcuts to feeling good. These shortcuts create positive feelings, but are problematic, in part because of the lack of effort involved. Some examples of these shortcuts include shopping, drugs, chocolate, loveless sex, and TV. These are problematic pursuits because all of these examples have the ability to become addictive. When happiness comes to us so easily, it comes with a price we may not realize. This price comes when taking these shortcuts is the only way to become happy, otherwise viewed as an addiction. A review by Amy Krentzman on the Application of Positive Psychology to Substance Use, Addiction, and Recovery Research, identified, in the field of positive psychology, three domains that allow an individual to thrive and contribute to society.\n\nOne of these, A Pleasant Life, involves good feelings about the past, present, and future. To tie this with addiction, they chose an example of alcoholism. Research on positive affect and alcohol showed a majority of the population associates drinking with pleasure. The pleasure one feels from alcohol is known as somatic pleasure, which is immediate but a short lived sensory delight. The researchers wanted to make clear pleasure alone does not amount to a life well lived; there is more to life than pleasure. Secondly, the Engaged Life is associated with positive traits such as strength of character. A few examples of character strength according to \"Character Strength and Virtues: A Handbook and Classification\" by Seligman and Peterson (2004) are bravery, integrity, citizenship, humility, prudence, gratitude, and hope, all of which are shown in the rise to recovery. To descend into an addiction shows a lack of character strength; however, rising to recovery shows the reinstatement of character strengths, including the examples mentioned above. Thirdly, the Meaningful Life is service and membership to positive organizations. Examples of positive organizations include family, workplace, social groups, and society in general. Organizations, like Alcoholics Anonymous, can be viewed as a positive organization. Membership fosters positive affect, while also promoting character strengths, which as seen in the Engaged Life, can aid in beating addiction.\n\nResearcher Dianne Hales described an \"emotionally healthy\" person as someone who exhibits flexibility and adaptability to different circumstances, a sense of meaning and affirmation in life, an \"understanding that the self is not the center of the universe\", compassion and the ability to be unselfish, an increased depth and satisfaction in intimate relationships, and a sense of control over the mind and body.\n\nLayard and others show that the most important influence on happiness is mental health.\n\nL.M. Keyes and Shane Lopez illustrate the four typologies of mental health functioning: flourishing, struggling, floundering and languishing. However, complete mental health is a combination of high emotional well-being, high psychological well-being, and high social well-being, along with low mental illness.\n\nAlthough health is part of well-being, some people are able to maintain satisfactory wellbeing despite the presence of psychological symptoms.\n\nMeta-analyses published between 2013 and 2017 show that exercise is associated with reductions in depressive symptoms, fatigue and QoL plus improvements in attention, hyperactivity, impulsivity, social functioning, schizophrenic symptoms, and verbal fluency in various special populations. However, aerobic exercise has no significant effect on anxiety disorders.\n\nIn 2005 a study conducted by Andrew Steptow and Michael Marmot at University College London, found that happiness is related to biological markers that play an important role in health. The researchers aimed to analyze whether there was any association between well-being and three biological markers: heart rate, cortisol levels, and plasma fibrinogen levels. The participants who rated themselves the least happy had cortisol levels that were 48% higher than those who rated themselves as the most happy. The least happy subjects also had a large plasma fibrinogen response to two stress-inducing tasks: the Stroop test, and tracing a star seen in a mirror image. Repeating their studies three years later Steptow and Marmot found that participants who scored high in positive emotion continued to have lower levels of cortisol and fibrinogen, as well as a lower heart rate.\n\nIn Happy People Live Longer (2011), Bruno Frey reported that happy people live 14% longer, increasing longevity 7.5 to 10 years and Richard Davidson's bestseller (2012) \"The Emotional Life of Your Brain\" argues that positive emotion and happiness benefit long-term health.\n\nHowever, in 2015 a study building on earlier research found that happiness has no effect on mortality. \"This \"basic belief that if you're happier you're going to live longer. That's just not true.\" Consistent results are that \"apart from good health, happy people were more likely to be older, not smoke, have fewer educational qualifications, do strenuous exercise, live with a partner, do religious or group activities and sleep for eight hours a night.\"\n\nHappiness does however seem to have a protective impact on immunity. The tendency to experience positive emotions was associated with greater resistance to colds and flu in interventional studies irrespective of other factors such as smoking, drinking, exercise, and sleep.\n\nPositive emotional states have a favorable effect on mortality and survival in both healthy and diseased populations. Even at the same level of smoking, drinking, exercise, and sleep, happier people seem to live longer. Interventional trials conducted to establish a cause-effect relationship indicate positive emotions to be associated with greater resistance to objectively verifiable colds and flu.\n\nHealth consumers sometimes confuse the terms \"wellness\" and \"well-being\". Wellness is a term more commonly associated with alternative medicine which may or may not coincide with gains in subjective well-being. In 2014, the Australian Government reviewed the effectiveness of numerous complementary therapies: they found low-moderate quality evidence that the Alexander technique, Buteyko, massage therapy (remedial massage), tai chi and yoga are helpful for certain health conditions. On the other hand, the balance of evidence indicates that homeopathy, aromatherapy, bowen therapy, Feldenkrais, herbalism, homeopathy, iridology, kinesiology, pilates, reflexology and rolfing shiatsu were classed as ineffective.\n\nThere is growing evidence that a diet rich in fruits and vegetables is related to greater happiness, life satisfaction, and positive mood as well. This evidence cannot be entirely explained by demographic or health variables including socio-economic status, exercise, smoking, and body mass index, suggesting a causal link. Further studies have found that fruit and vegetable consumption predicted improvements in positive mood the next day, not vice versa. On days when people ate more fruits and vegetables, they reported feeling calmer, happier, and more energetic than normal, and they also felt more positive the next day.\n\nCross-sectional studies worldwide support a relationship between happiness and fruit and vegetable intake. Those eating fruits and vegetables each day have a higher likelihood of being classified as “very happy,” suggesting a strong and positive correlation between fruit and vegetable consumption and happiness. Whether it be in South Korea, Iran, Chile, USA, or UK, greater fruit and vegetable consumption had a positive association with greater happiness, independent of factors such as smoking, exercise, body mass index, and socio-economic factors. This could be due to the protective benefits from chronic diseases and a greater intake of nutrients important for psychological health.\n\nOther food and drink practices associated with well-being are probiotics, alcohol, and binge drinking. Gluten and FODMAPs can negatively impact mood in some people. Bupa recommends oily fish, food with tryptophan such as milk, nuts, lentils, whole grain breads, cereals, pasta, soy and chocolate, dark chocolate, the Mediterranean diet overall including vegetables, fruits, whole grains, nuts and olive oil for wellbeing.\n\nThe documentary ‘food matters’ includes claims of well-being benefits of raw foods, which has been disputed as pseudoscience.\n\nEudaimonic well-being has been found to be empirically distinguishable from hedonic well-being.\n\nIndividual roles play a part in cognitive well-being. Not only does having social ties improve cognitive well-being, it also improves psychological health.\n\nHaving multiple identities and roles helps individuals to relate to their society and provide the opportunity for each to contribute more as they increase their roles, therefore creating enhanced levels of cognitive well-being. Each individual role is ranked internally within a hierarchy of salience. Salience is “...the subjective importance that a person attaches to each identity”.\n\nDifferent roles an individual has have a different impact on their well-being. Within this hierarchy, higher roles offer more of a source to their well-being and define more meaningfulness to their overall role as a human being.\n\nEthnic identity may play a role in an individual's cognitive well-being. Studies have shown that “...both social psychological and developmental perspectives suggest that a strong, secure ethnic identity makes a positive contribution to cognitive well-being”. Those in an acculturated society may feel more equal as a human being within their culture, therefore experiencing increased well-being.\n\nLearned optimism refers to development of one's potential for a sanguine outlook. Optimism is learned as personal efforts and abilities are linked to personally desired outcomes. In short, it is the belief one can influence the future in tangible and meaningful ways. Learned optimism contrasts with learned helplessness, which consists of a belief, or beliefs, one has no control over what occurs, and that something external dictates outcomes, e.g., success. Optimism is learned by consciously challenging negative self talk. This includes self talk on any event viewed as a personal failure that permanently affects all areas of the person's life.\n\nIntrapersonal, or internal, dialogues influence one's feelings. In fact, reports of happiness are correlated with the general ability to \"rationalize or explain\" social and economic inequalities. Hope is a powerful positive feeling, linked to a learned style of goal-directed thinking. Hope is fostered when a person utilizes both \"pathways thinking\" (the perceived capacity to find routes to desired goals) and \"agency thinking\" (the requisite motivations to use those routes).\n\nAuthor and journalist J.B. MacKinnon suggested the cognitive tool of \"Vertical Agitation\" can assist in avoiding helplessness (e.g., paralysis in the face of Earth's many problems). The concept stemmed from research on denial by sociologist Stanley Cohen. Cohen explained: in the face of massive problems people tend towards learned helplessness rather than confronting the dissonant facts of the matter. Vertical Agitation involves focusing on one part of a problem at a time, while holding oneself accountable for solving the problem – all the way to the highest level of government, business and society (such as advocating strongly for something: eco-friendly lightbulbs). This allows each individual in society to make vital \"trivial\" (read: small) changes, without being intimidated by the work needed to be done as a whole. Mackinnon added: a piecemeal approach also keeps individuals from becoming too 'holier than thou' (harassing friends and family about \"every\" possible improvement), where widespread practice of Vertical Agitation would lead to much improvement.\n\nWell-being has traditionally focused on improving physical, emotional and mental quality of life with little understanding of how dependent they all are on financial health. However, financial stress often manifests itself in physical and emotional difficulties that lead to increased healthcare costs and reduced productivity. A more inclusive paradigm for well-being would acknowledge money as a source of empowerment that maximizes physical and emotional health by reducing financial stress. Such a model would provide individuals with the financial knowledge they need, as well as enable them to gain valuable insight and understanding regarding their financial habits, as well as their thoughts, feelings, fears and attitudes about money. Through this work, individuals would be better equipped to manage their money and achieve the financial wellness that is essential for their overall well-being.\n\nIt has been argued that money cannot effectively \"buy\" much happiness unless it is used in certain ways, and that \"Beyond the point at which people have enough to comfortably feed, clothe, and house themselves, having more money – even a lot more money – makes them only a little bit happier.\" In his book \"Stumbling on Happiness\", psychologist Daniel Gilbert described research suggesting money makes a significant difference to the poor (where basic needs are not yet met), but has a greatly diminished effect once one reaches middle class (i.e. the Easterlin paradox). Every dollar earned is just as valuable to happiness up to a $75,000 annual income, thereafter, the value of each additional dollar earns a diminishing amount of happiness. According to the latest systematic review of the economic literature on life satisfaction, one's perception of their financial circumstances fully mediates the effects of objective circumstances on one’s well-being. People overestimate the influence of wealth by 100%.\n\nProfessor of Economics Richard Easterlin noted that job satisfaction does not depend on salary. In other words, having extra money for luxuries does not increase happiness as much as enjoying one's job or social network. Gilbert is thus adamant, people should go to great lengths to figure out which jobs they would enjoy, and to find a way to do one of those jobs for a living (that is, provided one is also attentive to social ties).\n\nUnemployment is detrimental to individual well-being. However, that does not hold true in countries where unemployment is widespread. Psychology Today reports that the impact of unemployment is dampened in those for whom work is less central to their identity, those who receive less criticism and less negative judgments from others, those who can meet their immediate financial obligations and those who do not see their unemployment as high stress and negative. Other protective factors include the expectation of reemployment, routines that structure one's time and evaluating oneself as worthy, competent and successful. According to the latest systematic review of the economic literature on life satisfaction, unemployment is worse for wellbeing for those that are right wing or live in high income countries. Not all unemployment is bad, however: international data from sixteen Western countries indicates that retirement at any age yields large increases in subjective well-being that returns to trend by age 70.\n\nExecutive coaching, a workplace intervention for well-being and performance, is proven to work in certain contexts, according to a 2013 independent quantitative scientific summary synthesising high quality scientific research on coaching. It tells us that standard effect sizes for the outcomes of performance/skills, well-being, coping, goal-attainment and work/career attitudes range from 0.43 to 0.74.\n\nA more recent study has challenged the Easterlin paradox. Using recent data from a broader collection of countries, a positive link was found between GDP and well-being; and there was no point at which wealthier countries' subjective well-being ceased to increase. It was concluded economic growth does indeed increase happiness.\n\nWealth is strongly correlated with life satisfaction but the correlation between money and emotional well-being is weak. The pursuit of money may lead people to ignore leisure time and relationships, both of which may cause and contribute to happiness. The pursuit of money at the risk of jeopardizing one's personal relationships and sacrificing enjoyment from one's leisure activities seems an unwise approach to finding happiness.\n\nMoney, or its hectic pursuit, has been shown to hinder people's savoring ability, or the act of enjoying everyday positive experiences and emotions. In a study looking at working adults, wealthy individuals reported lower levels of savoring ability (the ability to prolong positive emotion) relative to their poorer peers.\n\nStudies have routinely shown that nations are happier when people's needs are met.\nSome studies suggest, however, that people are happier after spending money on experiences, rather than physical things, and after spending money on others, rather than themselves. However, purchases that buy ‘time’, for instance, cleaners or cooks typically increase individual well-being.\n\nLottery winners report higher levels of happiness immediately following the event. But research shows winner's happiness levels drop and return to normal baseline rates within months to years. This finding suggests money does not cause long-term happiness (1978). However, in a more recent British study on lottery prizes between £1,000 and £120,000, a positive effect even two years after the event was found, the return to normal being only partial and varying.\n\nOne 600 women strong 2011 study shows that house owners are no happier than renters. Degree of ownership also matter:\n“...housing property rights matter for subjective well-being. Specifically, using subjective well-being data from China, the authors find that homeownership is associated with higher levels of life satisfaction, although this happiness premium is larger for people who have full ownership compared to those who have only a minor ownership stake in their home.”\nAccording to the latest systematic review of the economic literature on life satisfaction, living in rural areas seems to have some association with well-being, because the included studies tend to control for income and rural areas tend to be poor. Income has a high effect on happiness and incomes are higher in urban areas, so chasing a rural lifestyle at the expense of income may be a ‘grass is always greener’ move.\n\nAdults who live with parents also tend to have poorer levels of well-being.\n\nMindfulness is an intentionally focused awareness of one's immediate experience. \"Focused awareness\" is a conscious moment-by-moment attention to situational elements of an experience: i.e., thoughts, emotions, physical sensations, and surroundings. An aim of mindfulness is to become grounded in the present moment; one learns to observe the arising and passing of experience. One does not judge the experiences and thoughts, nor do they try to \"figure things out\" and draw conclusions, or change anything – the challenge during mindfulness is to simply observe. Benefits of mindfulness practice include reduction of stress, anxiety, depression, and chronic pain. See also Reverence (emotion).\n\nEllen J. Langer argued people slip into a state of \"mindlessness\" by engaging in rote behavior, performing familiar, scripted actions without much cognition, as if on autopilot.\n\nAdvocates of focusing on present experiences also mention research by Psychologist Daniel Gilbert, who suggested daydreaming, instead of a focus on the present, may impede happiness. Fellow researcher, Matt Killingsworth, found evidence to support the harm of daydreaming. Fifteen thousand participants from around the world provided over 650 000 reports (using an online application on their phones that requested data at random times). Killingsworth found people who reported daydreaming soon reported less happiness; daydreaming is extremely common. Zimbardo (see \"Time Perspectives\" above) bestowed the merits of a present-focus, and recommended occasional recall of past positive experiences. Reflecting on past positive experiences can influence current mood, and assist in building positive expectations for the future.\n\nThere is research that suggests a person's focus influences level of happiness, where thinking too much about happiness can be counter-productive. Rather than asking: \"Am I happy?\" – which when posed just 4 times a day, starts to decrease happiness, it might well be better to reflect on one's values (e.g., \"Can I muster any hope?\"). Asking different questions can assist in redirecting personal thoughts, and perhaps, lead to taking steps to better apply one's energies. The personal answer to any particular question can lead to positive actions, and hopefulness, which is a very powerful, and positive feeling. Hopefulness is more likely to foster happiness, while feelings of hopelessness tend to undermine happiness.\n\nTodd Kashdan, researcher and author of \"Designing Positive Psychology\", explained early science's findings should not be overgeneralized or adopted too uncritically. Mindfulness to Kashdan is very resource-intensive processing; he warned it is not simply better at all times. To illustrate, when a task is best performed with very little conscious thought (e.g., a paramedic performing practiced, emergency maneuvers). Nevertheless, development of the skill lends to its application at certain times, which can be useful for the reasons just described; Professor of Psychology and Psychiatry Richard J. Davidson highly recommends \"mindfulness meditation\" for use in the accurate identification and management of emotions.\n\nThe modifiable personality traits which might cause greater well-being have yet to be critically synthesised. However, there is evidence that certain traits are beneficial for individual happiness or performance: locus of control, curiosity, religiousness, spirituality, spiritual striving, sense of urgency, self-compassion, authenticity, growth mindset, positive mental attitudes, grit, goal orientation with a meta-analysis concluding that approach rather than avoidance goals are superior for performance; as well as prosocial rather than zero-sum goals.\n\nResearchers who have reported on the character traits of people with high and low life satisfaction found that character strengths which predict life satisfaction are zest, curiosity, hope, and humour. Character strengths that do not predict life satisfaction include appreciation of beauty and excellence, creativity, kindness, love of learning, and perspective. Meanwhile, research on character strengths that is separated by gender indicates the character strengths that predict life satisfaction in men are humour, fairness, perspective, and creativity, while the character strengths that predict life satisfaction in women are zest, gratitude, hope, appreciation of beauty, and love.\n\nCertain traits are specifically beneficial to those with certain health issues. Believing in yourself (high self efficacy) matters for eating disorders, immune response, stress management, pain management and healthy living.\n\nIn literature the positive psychological approach to personality is correlated often with the concepts of personal/psychosocial development and human development, balanced, strong, mature and proactive personality, character strengths and virtues, evidenced by traits like optimism and energy, pragmatism, active consciousness, assertiveness, free and powerful will, self-determination and self-realization, personal and social autonomy, social adaptability, personal and social efficiency, interpersonal development and professional development, proactive and positive thinking, humanity, empathy and love, emotional intelligence, subjective/psychological well-being, extraversion, happiness, positive emotions.\n\nMany tools for psychological wellness have entered popular culture via the personal development and self help industry. Positive music, will lower distress and pain, but news media consumption is detrimental for happiness. One exception is motivational media, for it has been found that inspiration helps with creativity, productivity and happiness. Reading self help books is associated with higher well-being, however, there is poor evidence on life coaching. Some schools of thought, such as Neuro-linguistic programming (NLP), have been criticised as pseudoscience. Other ideas, like affirmations and cold showers andhydrotherapy more broadly have limited evidence of effect. Proactive laughter as in laughter yoga increases mood and improves pain tolerance. Smiling ummarised increases attractiveness, calm in stressful situations, retrieval of happy memories, likeability, happiness, perceived happiness (by others), perceived politeness/relaxedness/carefree, perceived honesty but also perceived stupidity. However, proactively smiling only increases happiness among those who believe smiling is a reaction to feeling happy, rather than a positive intervention.\n\nEd Diener et al. (1999) suggested this equation: positive emotion – negative emotion = subjective well-being. Since tendency to positive emotion has a correlation of 0.8 with extroversion and tendency towards negative emotion is indistinguishable from neuroticism, the above equation could also be written as extroversion – neuroticism = happiness. These two traits could account for between 50% to 75% of happiness. These are all referring to the Big Five personality traits model of personality.\n\nAn emotionally stable (the opposite of Neurotic) personality correlates well with happiness. Not only does emotional stability make one less prone to negative emotions, it also predicts higher social intelligence – which helps to manage relationships with others (an important part of being happy, discussed below).\n\nCultivating an extroverted temperament may correlate with happiness for the same reason: it builds relationships and support groups. Some people may be fortunate, from the standpoint of personality theories that suggest individuals have control over their long-term behaviors and cognitions. Genetic studies indicate genes for personality (specifically extroversion, neuroticism and conscientiousness), and a general factor linking all 5 traits, account for the heritability of subjective well-being. Recent research suggests there is a happiness gene, the 5-HTT gene.\n\nPurpose in life refers broadly to the pursuit of life satisfaction. It has also been found that those with high purpose in life scores have strong goals and sense of direction. They feel there is meaning to their past and present life, and hold beliefs that continue to give their life purpose. Research in the past has focused on purpose in the face of adversity (what is awful, difficult, or absurd in life). Recently, research has shifted to include a focus on the role of purpose in personal fulfillment and self-actualization.\n\nThe self-control approach, as expounded by C. R. Snyder, focusses on exercising self-control to achieve self-esteem by fulfilling goals and feeling in control of our own success. This is further reinforced by a sense of intentionality in both efforts and outcomes.\n\nThe intrinsic motivation approach of Viktor Frankl emphasized finding value in three main areas: creative, experiential, and attitudinal. Creative values are expressed in acts of creating or producing something. Experiential values are actualized through the senses, and may overlap the hedonistic view of happiness. Attitudinal values are prominent for individuals who are unable to pursue the preceding two classes of values. Attitudinal values are believed to be primarily responsible for allowing individuals to endure suffering with dignity.\n\nA personal sense of responsibility is required for the pursuit of the values that give life meaning, but it is the realization that one holds sole responsibility for rendering life meaningful that allows the values to be actualized and life to be given true purpose. Determining what is meaningful for one's self provides a sense of autonomy and control which promotes self-esteem.\n\nPurpose in life is positively correlated with education level and volunteerism. However, it has also been found to decrease with age.\nPurpose in life is both highly individual, and what specifically provides purpose will change over the course of one's lifetime.\n\nAll three of the above theories have self-esteem at their core. Self-esteem is often viewed as the most significant measure of psychological well-being, and highly correlated with many life-regulating skills. Purpose in life promotes and is a source of self-esteem; it is not a by-product of self-esteem.\n\nSelf-efficacy refers to a belief that one's ability to accomplish a task is a function of personal effort. Low self-efficacy, or a disconnect between ability and personal effort, is associated with depression; by comparison, high self-efficacy is associated with positive change, including overcoming abuse, overcoming eating disorders, and maintaining a healthy lifestyle. High self-efficacy also has positive benefits for one's immune system, aids in stress management, and decreases pain. A related concept, Personal effectiveness, is primarily concerned with planning and the implementation of methods of accomplishment.\n\nAccording to Bloodworth and McNamee sports and physical activities are a key contributor to the development of people's well-being. The influence of sports on well-being is conceptualized within a framework which includes impermanence, its hedonistic shallowness and its epistemological inadequacy. Researching the effect of sport on well-being is difficult as some societies are unable to access sports, a deficiency in studying this phenomenon.\n\nSuffering can indicate behavior worthy of change, as well as ideas that require a person's careful attention and consideration. Generally, psychology acknowledges suffering can not be completely eliminated, but it is possible to successfully manage and reduce suffering. The University of Pennsylvania's Positive Psychology Center explains: \"Psychology’s concern with remedying human problems is understandable and should certainly not be abandoned. Human suffering demands scientifically informed solutions. Suffering and well being, however, are both part of the human condition, and psychologists should be concerned with both.\" Positive psychology, inspired by empirical evidence, focuses on productive approaches to pain and suffering, as well the importance of cultivating strengths and virtues to keep suffering to a minimum (see also Character strengths and virtues (book)).\nIn reference to the Buddhist saying \"Life is suffering\", researcher and clinical psychologist Jordan Peterson suggested this view as realistic, not pessimistic, where acceptance of the reality life is harsh, provides a freedom from the expectation one should always be happy. This realization can assist in the management of inevitable suffering. To Peterson, virtues are important because they provide people with essential tools to escape suffering (e.g., the strength to admit dissonant truths to themselves). Peterson maintained suffering is made worse by false philosophy (i.e., denial that natural suffering is inevitable).\n\nSimilarly, Seligman believes positive psychology is \"not a luxury\", saying \"most of Positive Psychology is for all of us, troubled or untroubled, privileged or in privation, suffering or carefree. The pleasures of a good conversation, the strength of gratitude, the benefits of kindness or wisdom or spirituality or humility, the search for meaning and the antidote to \"fidgeting until we die\" are the birthrights of us all.\"\n\nPositive coping is defined as \"a response aimed at diminishing the physical, emotional, and psychological burden that is linked to stressful life events and daily hassles\" It is found that proper coping strategies will reduce the burden of short-term stress and will help relieve long-term stress. Stress can be reduced by building resources that inhibit or buffer future challenges. For some people, these effective resources could be physiological, psychological or social.\n\nTerror management theory maintains that people suffer cognitive dissonance (anxiety) when they are reminded of their inevitable death. Through terror management, individuals are motivated to seek consonant elements – symbols which make sense of mortality and death in satisfactory ways (i.e. boosting self-esteem).\n\nResearch has found that strong belief in religious \"or\" secular meaning systems affords psychological security and hope. It is moderates (e.g. agnostics, slightly religious individuals) who likely suffer the most anxiety from their meaning systems. Religious meaning systems are especially adapted to manage anxiety about death or dying because they are unlikely to be disconfirmed (for various reasons), they are all encompassing, and they promise literal immortality.\n\nWhether emotional effects are beneficial or adverse seems to vary with the nature of the belief. Belief in a benevolent God is associated with lower incidence of general anxiety, social anxiety, paranoia, obsession, and compulsion whereas belief in a punitive God is associated with greater symptoms. (An alternative explanation is that people seek out beliefs that fit their psychological and emotional states.)\n\nCitizens of the world's poorest countries are the most likely to be religious, and researchers suggest this is because of religion's powerful coping abilities. Luke Galen also supports terror management theory as a partial explanation of the above findings. Galen describes evidence (including his own research) that the benefits of religion are due to strong convictions and membership in a social group.\n\nThe capacity for loving attachments and relationships, especially with parents, is the strongest predictor of well-being later in life.\n\nSeligman writes: \"Unlike money, which has at most a small effect, marriage is robustly related to happiness... In my opinion, the jury is still out on what causes the proven fact married people are happier than unmarried people.\" (pp. 55–56). Married persons report higher levels of happiness and well-being than single people. Other data has shown a spouse's happiness depends on the happiness of their partner. When asked, spouses reported similar happiness levels to each other. The data also shows the spouses' happiness level fluctuates similarly to one another. If the husband is having a bad week, the wife will similarly report she had a bad week.\n\nThere is little data on alternatives like polyamory, although one study stated wife order in polygyny did not have a substantial effect on life or marital satisfaction over all. This study also found younger wives were happier than older wives.\n\nOn the other hand, at least one large study in Germany found no difference in happiness between married and unmarried people.\n\nStudies have shown that married couples are consistently happier and more satisfied with their life than those who are single. Some research findings have indicated that marriage is the only real significant bottom-up predictor of life satisfaction for men and women, and that those people who have a higher life satisfaction prior to marriage, tend to have a happier marriage.\n\nSelf-reported satisfaction typically drops as the years of marriage roll on, particularly for couples who have children compared to those who do not. The reasons for this decline include a drop in affectionate behaviour. One team of researcher from Northwestern University who summarised the literature in 2013, identifies that this trend does not reverse throughout the marital period.\n\nSurprisingly, there has been a steady decline in the positive relationship between marriage and well-being in the United States since the 1970s. This decline is due to women reporting being less happy than previously and single men reporting being happier than previously. Research does exist, however, suggesting that compared to single people, married people have better physical and psychological health and tend to live longer.\n\nWith this, a two-factor theory of love was developed by Barnes and Sternberg. This theory is composed of two components: passionate love and companionate love. Passionate love is considered to be an intense longing for a loved one. This love is often experienced through joy and sexual fulfillment, or even through rejection. On the other hand, companionate love is associated with affection, friendship and commitment. Stutzer and Frey (2006) found that the absence of loneliness and the emotional support that promotes self-esteem are both important aspects that contribute to individual well-being within marriage. Both passionate and companionate love are the foundations for every variety of love that one may experience. When passionate and companionate love are compromised in a marital relationship, satisfaction is decreased and the likelihood of divorce increases. In other words, the lack of positive support and validation increases the risk for divorce.\n\nBecause of the expansive research done on the significance of social support within a marriage, it is important to understand that this research was inspired by a theory called the attachment theory perspective. Attachment theory stresses the importance of support and care giving in a relationship for the development of trust and security. Attachment theory, as conceptualized by Collins and Feeney (2000) is an interpersonal, transactional process that involves one partners caregiving responses.\n\nWhile the mantle of parenting is sometimes held as the necessary path of adulthood, study findings are actually mixed as to whether parents report higher levels of happiness relative to non-parents. Folk wisdom suggests a child brings partners closer; research has found couples actually become less satisfied after the birth of the first child. The joys of having a child are overshadowed by the responsibilities of parenthood. Based on quantitative self-reports, researchers found parents prefer doing almost anything else to looking after their children. By contrast, parents' self-report levels of happiness are higher than those of non-parents. This may be due to already happy people having more children than unhappy people. In addition, it might also be that, in the long-term, having children gives more meaning to life. One study found having up to three children increased happiness among married couples, but not among other groups with children. Proponents of Childfreedom maintain this is because one can enjoy a happy, productive life without the trouble of ever being a parent.\n\nBy contrast, many studies found having children makes parents less happy. Compared with non-parents, parents with children have lower levels of well-being and life satisfaction. In addition, parents report more feelings of depression and anxiety than non-parents. However, when adults without children are compared to empty nest parents, parenthood is positively associated with emotional well-being. People found parenthood to be more stressful in the 1970s than they did in the 1950s. This is thought to be because of social changes in regards to employment and marital status.\n\nMales apparently become less happy after the birth of a child due to added economic pressure and taking on the role of being a parent. A conflict between partners can arise when the couple does not desire traditional roles, or has an increasing number of roles. Unequal responsibilities of child-rearing between men and women account for this difference in satisfaction. Fathers who worked and shared an equal part in child-raising responsibilities were found to be the least satisfied. Research shows that single parents have higher levels of distress and report more mental health problems than married persons.\n\nResearchers implemented the Huta & Ryan Scale: Four Eudaimonic Measurement Questionnaire to analyze the participants eudaimonic motives, through motivation towards activities. The investigation was conducted on Canadian university undergraduates. The four eudaimonic pursuits as described by Huta & Ryan are: \n\nThe study determined that participants derived well-being from eudaimonic pursuits only if their parents had role modeled eudaimonia, but not if their parents had merely verbally endorsed eudaimonia.\n\nStudies were also conducted on responsiveness and demandingness. The studies participants were American university undergraduates. The terms are described as follows; responsiveness satisfies the basic psychological need for autonomy. This is relevant to eudaimonia because it supports and implements the values of initiative, effort, and persistence, and integration of one's behaviour's values, and true-self. Autonomy is an important psychological factor because it provides the individual with independence. Demandingness cultivates many of the qualities needed for eudaimonia, including structure, self-discipline, responsibility, and vision. Responsiveness and demandingness are reported to be good aspects of parenting. The studies report both of these qualities as important factors to well-being.\n\nThe study addressed parenting style by assessing and using adaptions of Baumrind's Parent Behaviour Rating Interview. Adaptions of this interview were made into a seventy-five question based survey; participants answered questions organized into fifteen subscales. The study determined that eudaimonically oriented participants reported their parents had been both demanding and responsive towards them. A multiple regression showed that demandingness and responsiveness together explained as much as twenty-eight percent of the variance in eudaimonia, this suggests parenting played a major role in the development of this pursuit. This supported the expectation that eudaimonia is cultivated when parents encourage internal structure, self-discipline, responsibility, and vision, and simultaneously fulfill a child's needs for autonomy. The research concludes that parents who want their children to experience eudaimonia must firstly themselves \"mentor\" their children in the approaches to attain eudaimonia. To encourage eudaimonia verbally is not sufficient enough to suffice eudaimonia into adulthood. Parents must clearly role model eudaimonia for it to truly be present in the child's life.\n\nIn the article \"Finding Happiness after Harvard\", George Vaillant concluded a study on what aspects of life are important for \"successful living\". In the 1940s, Arlie Bock, while in charge of the Harvard Health Services, started a study, selecting 268 Harvard students from graduating classes of 1942, '43, and '44. He sought to identify the aspects of life contributing to \"successful living\". In 1967, the psychiatrist George Vaillant continued the study, undertaking follow-up interviews to gauge the lives of many of the students. In 2000, Vaillant again interviewed these students as to their progress in life. Vaillant observed: health, close relationships, and how participants dealt with their troubles. Vaillant found a key aspect to successful living is healthy and strong relationships.\n\nA widely publicized study from 2008 in the \"British Medical Journal\" reported happiness in social networks may spread from person to person. Researchers followed nearly 5000 individuals for 20 years in the long-standing Framingham Heart Study and found clusters of happiness and unhappiness that spread up to 3 degrees of separation on average. Happiness tended to spread through close relationships like friends, siblings, spouses, and next-door neighbors; researchers reported happiness spread more consistently than unhappiness through the network. Moreover, the structure of the social network appeared to affect happiness, as people who were very central (with many friends, and friends of friends) were significantly happier than those on the network periphery. People closer with others are more likely to be happy themselves. Overall, the results suggest happiness can spread through a population like a virus. Having a best friend buffers one's negative life experiences. When one's best friend is present Cortisol levels are decreased and feelings of self-worth increase.\n\nNeuroeconomist Paul Zak studies morality, oxytocin, and trust, among other variables. Based on research findings, Zak recommends: people hug others more often to get into the habit of feeling trust. He explains \"eight hugs a day, you'll be happier, and the world will be a better place\".\n\nRecently, Anderson et al. found that sociometric status (the amount of respect one has from face-to-face peer group) is significantly and causally related to happiness as measured by subjective well-being.\n\nResearch suggests neither a good education nor a high IQ reliably increases happiness.\nAnders Ericsson argued an IQ above 120 has a decreasing influence on success. Presumably, IQs above 120 do not additionally cause other happiness indicators like success (with the exception of careers like Theoretical physics, where high IQs are more predictive of success). Above that IQ level, other factors, like social skills and a good mentor, matter more. As these relate to happiness, intelligence and education may simply allow one to reach a middle-class level of need satisfaction (as mentioned above, being richer than this seems to hardly affect happiness). According to the findings of the study, Using Theatrical Concepts for Role-plays with Educational Agents by Klesen, she expresses how role- playing embeds information and educational goals and causes people to learn unintentionally. Studies has shown that enjoyment in things as simple as role playing increases a person's IQ and their happiness.\n\nMartin Seligman has said: \"As a professor, I don't like this, but the cerebral virtues—curiosity, love of learning—are less strongly tied to happiness than interpersonal virtues like kindness, gratitude and capacity for love.\"\n\nJohn White (2013) investigated the educational goals at public schools in Britain. School-education involves both cognitive and conceptual learning, but also the development social skills and personal development. Ideally, children develop self-confidence, and create purpose for themselves. According to White, in the past schools only focused on knowledge and education but now Britain has moved to a broader direction. White's Every Child Matters initiative seeks to enhance children's well-being across the range of children's services.\n\nAs a basic building block to a better existence, positive psychology aims to improve the quality of experiences. Within its framework, students could learn to become excited about physical activity. Playing comes natural to children; positive psychology seeks to preserve this zest (a sense of excitement and motivation for life) for movement in growing and developing children. If offered in an interesting, challenging and pleasurable way physical activity would thus internalize an authentic feeling of happiness in students. Positive psychology's approach to physical activity could give students the means of acquiring an engaged, pleasant and meaningful life.\n\nPositive psychology is beneficial to schools and students because it encourages individuals to strive to do their best, whereas scolding has the opposite effect. Clifton and Rath discussed research conducted by Dr. Elizabeth Hurlock in 1925, where fourth, fifth and sixth graders were either praised, criticized or ignored, based on their work on math problems. Praised students improved by 71%, those criticized improved by 19%, and students provided with no feedback improved a mere 5%. Praise seems an effective method of fostering improvement.\n\nAccording to Clifton and Rath ninety nine out of one hundred people prefer the influence of positive people. The benefits include: increased productivity, and contagious positive emotions, which assists one in working to the best of her, or his, abilities. Even a single negative person can ruin the entire positive vibe in an environment. Clifton and Rath cited ‘positive emotions as an essential daily requirement for survival’.\n\nIn 2008, in conjunction with the Positive Psychology Center at the University of Pennsylvania, a whole-of-school implementation of Positive Psychology was undertaken by Geelong Grammar School (Victoria, Australia). This involved training of teaching staff in the principles and skills of positive psychology. Ongoing support was provided by The Positive Psychology Center staff, who remained in-residence for the entire year.\n\nStaats, Hupp and Hagley (2008) used positive psychology to explore academic honesty. They identified positive traits displayed by heroes, then determined if the presence of these traits in students predicted future intent to cheat. The results of their research: ‘an effective working model of heroism in the context of the academic environment’ (Staats, Hupp & Hagley, 2008).\n\nAccording to a study reported in the \"NY Post\" newspaper, 48% of parents reward their children's good grades with cash or something else of meaning. Among many families in the United States, this is controversial. Although psychology experts support the offer of reward for good behavior as a better alternative than the use of punishment for bad behavior, in some circumstances, families cannot afford to give their children an average of 16 dollars for every good grade earned. Alternatives for money include allowing a child extra time on a computer or staying up later than usual. Some psychology experts believe the best reward is praise and encouragement because material rewards can cause long-term negative effects for children.\nA study, regarding rewards for children, conducted in 1971 by psychologist, Edward L. Deci, at the University of Rochester, is still referenced today. Featured in the \"New York Times\", it focused on the short- and long-term effects of rewards for positive behavior. Deci suggested rewards for positive behavior is an effective incentive for only a short period. At the outset, rewards can support motivation to work hard and strive towards personal goals. However, once rewards cease, children showed less interest in the task relative to participants who never received rewards. Deci pointed out, at a young age, children's natural instinct is to resist people who try to control their behavior, which he cited as support for his conclusion rewards for good behavior have limited effectiveness.\n\nIn contrast, the \"New York Times\" featured research findings that supported the merits of offering rewards to children for good behavior. Expert economists argued children experiencing trouble with their behavior or schoolwork should have numerous helpful options, including rewards. Although children might well experience an initial attraction to financial or material, a love for learning could develop subsequently. Despite the controversy regarding the use of rewards, some experts believe the best way to motivate a child is to offer rewards at the beginning of the school year, but if unsuccessful they recommend teachers and parents stop using the reward system. Because of individual differences among children, no one method will work for everyone. Some children respond well to the use of rewards for positive behavior, while others evidence negative effects. The results seem to depend on the person.\n\nPositive Youth Development focuses on the promotion of healthy development rather than viewing youth as prone to problems needing to be addressed. This is accomplished through programs and efforts by communities, schools, and government agencies.\n\nIt has been argued that happiness at work is one of the driving forces behind positive outcomes at work, rather than just being a resultant product.\n\nDespite a large body of positive psychological research into the relationship between happiness and productivity, happiness at work has traditionally been seen as a potential by-product of positive outcomes at work, rather than a pathway to success in business. However a growing number of scholars, including Boehm and Lyubomirsky, argue that it should be viewed as one of the major sources of positive outcomes in the workplace.\n\nA practical application of positive psychology is to assist individuals and organizations in identifying strengths so as to increase and sustain well-being. Therapists, counselors, coaches, various psychological professionals, HR departments, business strategists, and others, are using new methods and techniques to broaden and build upon the strengths of a wide population of individuals. This includes those not suffering from mental illness or disorder. \n\nPositive psychology has been implemented in business management practice, but has faced challenges. Wong & Davey (2007) noted managers can introduce positive psychology to a workplace, but they might struggle with positive ways to apply it to employees. Furthermore, for employees to welcome and commit to positive psychology, its application within an organization must be transparent. Managers must also understand the implementation of positive psychology will not necessarily combat any commitment challenges that exist. However, with its implementation employees might become more optimistic and open to new concepts or management practices.\n\nIn their article \"The Benefits of Frequent Positive Affect: Does Happiness Lead to Success?\", S. Lyubomirsky et al. report: \"Study after study shows that happiness precedes important outcomes and indicators of thriving, including fulfilling and productive work\".\n\nPositive psychology, when applied correctly, can provide employees with a greater opportunity to use skills and vary work duties. However, changing work conditions and roles can lead to stress among employees if they are improperly supported by management. This is particularly true for employees who must meet the expectations of organizations with unrealistic goals and targets. Thomas and Tasker (2010) showed less worker autonomy, fewer opportunities for development, less-enriched work roles, and lower levels of supervisor support reflected the effect of industry growth on job satisfaction.\n\nCan an organization implement positive change? Lewis et al. (2007) developed appreciative inquiry (AI), which is an integrated, organizational-level methodology for approaching organizational development. Appreciative inquiry is based on the generation of organizational resourcefulness, which is accomplished by accessing a variety of human psychological processes, such as: positive emotional states, imagination, social cohesion, and the social construction of reality.\n\nA relatively new practice in the workplace is recruiting and developing people based on their strengths (what they love to do, are naturally good at and energises them). Standard Chartered Bank pioneered this approach in the early 2000s. More and more organisations are realising the benefit of recruiting people who are in their element in the job as opposed to simply having the right competencies for the job. Aviva, Morrisons (a large UK supermarket) and Starbucks have all adopted this approach.\n\nPsychologist Howard Gardner has extensively researched the merit of undertaking good work at one's job. He suggested young generations (particularly in the United States) are taught to focus on the selfish pursuit of money for its own sake, although having money does not engender happiness, and psychological studies show that there is a strong correlation between the wealthy and experience of intensively negative emotions. Gardner's proposed alternatives loosely follow the pleasant/good/meaningful life classifications outlined above; he believes young people should be trained to pursue excellence in their field, as well as engagement (see flow, above) in accordance with their moral belief systems.\n\nTraditional work with offenders has focused on their deficits (e.g., with respect to socialization, and schooling) and other \"criminogenic\" risk-factors. Rehabilitation more often than not has taken the form of forced treatment or training, ostensibly for the good of the offender, and the community. Arguably, this approach has shortcomings, suggesting a need to make available additional positive options to treatment staff so they can best assist offenders, and so that offenders can better find their way forward. Positive psychology has made recent inroads with the advent of the \"Good Lives Model\", developed by Tony Ward, Shadd Maruna, and others. With respect to rehabilitation: \"Individuals take part ... because they think that such activities might either improve the quality of their life (an intrinsic goal) or at least look good to judges, parole boards and family members (an extrinsic goal).\"\n\nPositive criminology and positive victimology are conceptual approaches, developed by the Israeli criminologist Natti Ronel and his research team, that follow principles of positive psychology and apply them into the fields of criminology and victimology, respectively. Positive criminology and victimology both place an emphasis on social inclusion and on unifying and integrating forces at individual, group, social and spiritual levels that are associated with the limiting of crime and recovery from victimization. In traditional approaches the study of crime, violence and related behaviors emphasizes the negative aspects in people's lives that are associated with deviance, criminality and victimization. A common understanding is that human relationships are affected more by destructive encounters than by constructive or positive ones. Positive criminology and victimology argue that a different approach is viable, based on three dimensions – social integration, emotional healing and spirituality – that constitute positive direction indicators.\n\nIn economics, the term well-being is used for one or more quantitative measures intended to assess the quality of life of a group, for example, in the capabilities approach and the economics of happiness. As with the related cognate terms 'wealth' and 'welfare', economics sources often contrast the state with its opposite. The study of well-being is divided into subjective well-being and objective well-being.\n\nPsychologists in the happiness community feel politics should promote population happiness. Politics should also consider level of human happiness among future generations, concern itself with life expectancy, and focus on the reduction of suffering. Based on political affiliation, some studies argue conservatives, on average, are happier than liberals. A potential explanation is greater acceptance of income inequalities in society leads to a less worried nature. Luke Galen, Associate Professor of Psychology at Grand Valley State University, mentioned political commitments as important because they are a sort of secular world view that, like religion, can be generally beneficial to coping with death anxiety (see also Terror management theory and religion and happiness).\n\nLiving in an environment with more green spaces is associated with higher well-being, partly due to the beneficial effects on psychological relaxation, stress alleviation, increased physical activity, and reduced exposure to air pollutants and noise, among others. According to the latest systematic review of the economic literature on life satisfaction, pollution is bad for one's well-being. Exposure to outdoor air pollution and chimney smoke fireplaces causes dementia and other-health risks.\n\nPeople base their own well-being in relation to their environment and the lives of others around them. Well-being is also subject to how one feels other people in their environment perceive them, whether that positively or negatively. Whether or not other cultures are subject to internal culture appraisal is based on that culture's type. According to Diener and Suh,\nVarious cultures have various perspectives on the nature of positive human functioning. For example, studies on aversion to happiness, or fear of happiness, indicates that some individuals and cultures are averse to the experience of happiness, because they believe happiness may cause bad things to happen. Empirical evidence indicates that there are fundamental differences in the ways well-being is construed in Western and non-Western cultures, including the Islamic and East Asian cultures. Exploring various cultural perspectives on well-being, Joshanloo (2014) identifies and discusses six broad differences between Western and non-Western conceptions of well-being. For example, whereas Western cultures tend to emphasize the absence of negative emotions and autonomy in defining well-being, Eastern cultures tend to emphasize virtuous or religious activity, self-transcendence, and harmony.\n\nEunkook M. Suh (University of California) and Shigehiro Oishi (University of Minnesota; now at University of Virginia) examined the differences of happiness on an international level and different cultures' views on what creates well-being and happiness. In a study, of over 6,000 students from 43 nations, to identify mean life satisfaction, on a scale of 1–7, the Chinese ranked lowest at 3.3; and Dutch scored the highest at 5.4. When asked how much subjective well-being was ideal, Chinese ranked lowest at 4.5, and Brazilians highest at 6.2, on a scale of 1–7. The study had three main findings: (1) People living in individualistic, rather than collectivist, societies are happier; (2) Psychological attributes referencing the individual are more relevant to Westerners; (3) Self-evaluating happiness levels depend on different cues, and experiences, from one's culture.\n\nThe results of a study by Chang E. C. showed that Asian Americans and Caucasian Americans have similar levels of optimism but Asian Americans are far more pessimistic than Caucasian Americans. However, there were no major differences in depression across cultures. On the other hand, pessimism was positively linked to problem solving behaviors for Asian Americans, but was negatively linked for Caucasian Americans.\n\nReligiousness and spirituality are closely related but distinct topics. Religion is any organized, and often institutionalized, system of cultural practices and beliefs pertaining to the meaning of human existence. It occurs within a traditional context such as a formal religious institution. Spirituality, on the other hand, is a general term applied to the process of finding meaning and a better understanding of one's place in the universe. It is the individual or collective search for that which is sacred or meaningful in life. One may therefore be religious but not spiritual, and vice versa.\n\nThere have been some studies of how religion relates to happiness. Causal relationships remain unclear, but more religion is seen in happier people. Consistent with PERMA, religion may provide a sense of meaning and connection to something bigger, beyond the self. Religion may also provide community membership and hence relationships. Another component may have to do with ritual.\n\nReligion and happiness have been studied by a number of researchers, and religion features many elements addressing the components of happiness, as identified by positive psychology. Its association with happiness is facilitated in part by the social connections of organized religion, and by the neuropsychological benefits of prayer and belief.\n\nThere are a number of mechanisms through which religion may make a person happier, including social contact and support that result from religious pursuits, the mental activity that comes with optimism and volunteering, learned coping strategies that enhance one's ability to deal with stress, and psychological factors such as \"reason for being.\" It may also be that religious people engage in behaviors related to good health, such as less substance abuse, since the use of psychotropic substances is sometimes considered abuse.\n\nThe \"Handbook of Religion and Health\" describes a survey by Feigelman (1992) that examined happiness in Americans who have given up religion, in which it was found that there was little relationship between religious disaffiliation and unhappiness. A survey by Kosmin & Lachman (1993), also cited in this handbook, indicates that people with no religious affiliation appear to be at greater risk for depressive symptoms than those affiliated with a religion. A review of studies by 147 independent investigators found, \"the correlation between religiousness and depressive symptoms was -.096, indicating that greater religiousness is mildly associated with fewer symptoms.\"\n\nThe Legatum Prosperity Index reflects the repeated finding of research on the science of happiness that there is a positive link between religious engagement and well-being: people who report that God is very important in their lives are on average more satisfied with their lives, after accounting for their income, age and other individual characteristics.\n\nSurveys by Gallup, the National Opinion Research Centre and the Pew Organisation conclude that spiritually committed people are twice as likely to report being \"very happy\" than the least religiously committed people. An analysis of over 200 social studies contends that \"high religiousness predicts a lower risk of depression and drug abuse and fewer suicide attempts, and more reports of satisfaction with sex life and a sense of well-being.\nHowever, the links between religion and happiness are always very broad in nature, highly reliant on scripture and small sample number. To that extent there is a much larger connection between religion and suffering (Lincoln 1034).\" And a review of 498 studies published in peer-reviewed journals concluded that a large majority of them showed a positive correlation between religious commitment and higher levels of perceived well-being and self-esteem and lower levels of hypertension, depression, and clinical delinquency. A meta-analysis of 34 recent studies published between 1990 and 2001 found that religiosity has a salutary relationship with psychological adjustment, being related to less psychological distress, more life satisfaction, and better self-actualization. Finally, a recent systematic review of 850 research papers on the topic concluded that \"the majority of well-conducted studies found that higher levels of religious involvement are positively associated with indicators of psychological well-being (life satisfaction, happiness, positive affect, and higher morale) and with less depression, suicidal thoughts and behaviour, drug/alcohol use/abuse.\"\n\nHowever, there remains strong disagreement among scholars about whether the effects of religious observance, particularly attending church or otherwise belonging to religious groups, is due to the spiritual or the social aspects—i.e. those who attend church or belong to similar religious organizations may well be receiving only the effects of the social connections involved. While these benefits are real enough, they may thus be the same one would gain by joining other, secular groups, clubs, or similar organizations.\n\nReligiousness has often been found to correlate with positive health attributes. People who are more religious show better emotional well-being and lower rates of delinquency, alcoholism, drug abuse, and other social problems.\n\nSix separate factors are cited as evidence for religion's effect on well-being: religion (1) provides social support, (2) supports healthy lifestyles, (3) promotes personality integration, (4) promotes generativity and altruism, (5) provides unique coping strategies, and (6) provides a sense of meaning and purpose. Many religious individuals experience emotions that create positive connections among people and allow them to express their values and potential. These four emotions are known as \"sacred emotions,\" which are said to be (1) gratitude and appreciation, (2) forgiveness, (3) compassion and empathy, and (4) humility.\n\nSocial interaction is necessarily a part of the religious experience. Religiosity has been identified to correlate positively with prosocial behavior in trauma patients, and prosocial behavior is furthermore associated with well-being. It also has stronger associations with well-being in individuals genetically predisposed towards social sensitivity in environments where religion prioritizes social affiliation. It has also been linked to greater resilience against stress as well as higher measures of self-actualization and success in romantic relationships and parental responsibilities.\n\nThese benefits, while being correlational, may come about as a result of becoming more religiously involved. The benefit of having a secure social group likely plays a key part in religion's positive effects. One form of Christian counseling uses religion through talk therapy and assessments to promote mental health. In another instance, people who were not Buddhist, but were exposed to Buddhist concepts, scored higher on measures of outgroup acceptance and prosociality. This effect was found not only in Western countries, but also in places where Buddhism is prevalent, indicating a general association of Buddhism with acceptance. This finding seems to indicate that merely encountering a religious belief system such as Buddhism may allow some of its effects to be transferred to nonbelievers.\n\nHowever, many disagree that the benefits the religious experience are due to their beliefs, and some find there to be no conclusive psychological benefits of belief at all. For example, the health benefit that the elderly gain from going to church may in fact be the\" \"reason they are able to go to church; the less healthy cannot leave their homes. Meta analysis has found that find studies purporting the beneficial results of religiosity often fail to fully represent data correctly due to a number of issues such as self-report bias, the use of inappropriate comparison groups, and the presence of criterion contamination. Other studies have disputed the efficacy of intercessory prayer positively affecting the health of those being prayed for. They have shown that, when scientifically rigorous studies are performed (by randomizing the patients and preventing them from knowing that they are being prayed for), there is no discernible effect.\n\nReligion has power as a cohesive social force, and whether or not it is always beneficial is debated. Irrespective of a group's beliefs, many find that simply belonging to a tight social group reduces anxiety and mental health problems. In addition, there may be a degree of self-selectivity amongst the religious; the behavioral benefits they display may simply be common aspects of those who choose to or are able to practice religion. As a result, whether or not religion can be prescribed scientifically as a means of self-betterment is unclear.\n\nWhile religion is often formalised and community-oriented, spirituality tends to be individually based and not as formalised. In a 2014 study, 320 children, ages 8–12, in both public and private schools, were given a Spiritual Well-Being Questionnaire assessing the correlation between spirituality and happiness. Spirituality – and not religious practices (praying, attending church services) – correlated positively with the child's happiness; the more spiritual the child was, the happier the child was. Spirituality accounted for about 3–26% of the variance in happiness.\n\nMeditation has been found to lead to high activity in the brain's left prefrontal cortex, which in turn has been found to correlate with happiness.\n\nA study using the Oxford happiness questionnaire on Brahma Kumaris Raja yoga meditators showed them having higher happiness than the control group. Yongey Mingyur Rinpoche has said that neuro scientists have found that with meditation, an individual's happiness baseline can change.\n\nMany people describe themselves as both religious and spiritual, but spirituality represents just one particular function of religion. Spirituality as related to positive psychology can be defined as \"a search for the sacred\". What is defined as sacred can be related to God, life itself, or almost any other facet of existence. It simply must be viewed as having spiritual implications which are transcendent of the individual. Spiritual well-being addresses this human need for transcendence and involves social as well as existential well-being. Spiritual well-being is associated with various positive outcomes such as better physical and psychological well-being, lower anxiety, less depression, self-actualization, positive relationships with parents, higher rates of positive personality traits and acceptance. Researchers have cautioned to differentiate between correlative and causal associations between spirituality and psychology.\n\nReaching the sacred as a personal goal, also called spiritual striving, has been found to correlate highest with well-being compared to other forms of striving. This type of striving can improve a sense of self and relationships and creates a connection to the transcendent Additionally, multiple studies have shown that self-reported spirituality is related to lower rates of mortality and depression and higher rates of happiness.\n\nCurrently, most research on spirituality examines ways in which spirituality can help in times of crisis. Spirituality has been found to remain constant when experiencing traumatic events and/or life stressors such as accidents, war, sickness, and death of a loved one. When confronted with an obstacle, people might turn to prayer or meditation. Coping mechanisms involving spirituality include meditative meditation, creating boundaries to preserve the sacred, spiritual purification to return to the righteous path, and spiritual reframing which focuses on maintaining belief. One clinical application of spirituality and positive psychology research is the \"psychospiritual intervention,\" which represents the potential that spirituality has to increase well-being. These coping mechanisms that aim to preserve the sacred have been found by researchers to increase well-being and return the individual back to the sacred.\n\nOverall, spirituality is a process that occurs over a lifetime and includes searching, conserving, and redefining what is sacred in an extremely individualized manner. It does not always have a positive effect and in fact has been associated with very negative events and life changes. Research is lacking in spirituality but it is necessary because spirituality can assist in enhancing the experiences of the uncontrollable parts of life.\n\nMuch research has pointed at the rising rates of depression, leading people to speculate that modernization may be a factor in the growing percentage of depressed people. One study found that women in urban America were much more likely to experience depression than those in rural Nigeria. Other studies have found a positive correlation between a country's GDP per capita, as quantitative measure of modernization, and lifetime risk of a mood disorder trended toward significance (p=0.06).\n\nMany people believe it is the increased number of pressures and expectations, increased isolation, increased individualism, and increased inactivity that contribute to higher rates of depression in modern societies.\n\nSome evidence suggests sunnier climates do not predict happiness. In one study both Californians and Midwesterners expected the former's happiness ratings to be higher due to a sunnier environment. In fact, the Californian and Midwestern happiness ratings did not show a significant difference. Other research has found that temperature, wind power, sunlight, precipitation and air temperature has a small impact on mood, but some people appear to be affected in a large way (but it's not 5 factor personality). A study of Dutch teenagers identified that the effect of weather on mood depends on whether they were Summer lovers, summer haters, rain haters and unaffected by weather. Other researchers say the necessary minimum daily dose of sunlight is as little as 30 minutes.\n\nThat is not to say weather is never a factor for happiness. Perhaps the changing norms of sunlight cause seasonal affective disorder, which undermines level of happiness.\n\nPositive psychology research and practice is currently conducted and developed in various countries throughout the world. To illustrate, in Canada, Charles Hackney of Briercrest College applies positive psychology to the topic of personal growth through martial arts training; Paul Wong, president of the International Network on Personal Meaning, is developing an existential approach to positive psychology, which is framed in the second wave positive psychology (PP 2.0). \n\nThe research program ‘Understanding Positive Emotions’ at Human Science Lab, London, investigates how material well-being and perceptual well-being work as relative determinants in conditioning our mind for positive emotions.\n\nCognitive and behavioral change, although sometimes slight and complex, can produce an 'intense affect'.\n\nIsen (2009) remarked that further progress requires suitable research methods, and appropriate theories on which to base contemporary research. Chang (2008) suggested that researchers have a number of paths to pursue regarding the enhancement of emotional intelligence, even though emotional intelligence does not guarantee the development of positive affect; in short, more study is required to track the gradient of positive affect in psychology.\n\n"}
{"id": "25791967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25791967", "title": "Work–life balance in the United States", "text": "Work–life balance in the United States\n\nWork–life balance is having enough time for work and enough to have a life, thus the work life balance. Related, though broader, terms include \"lifestyle balance\" and \"life balance\".\n\nThe first enforceable hours' law in the United States was in 1874 when Massachusetts enacted a law which limited the amount of time that women and children could work each week. This limit was set at sixty hours per week. Similar laws were later adopted by about half of the country's states. Only men in exceptionally hazardous jobs were covered in early legislation and most had no limit to the number of hours their employees could have them work.\n\nTen-hour workdays were accepted in the agriculture industry during certain seasons and six-day workweeks were not unheard of. Bakers did not win the right to work less than ten hours per day until 1905 with the court case of \"Lochner v. New York\".\n\nThe general presumption during this period was that the courts would allow regulation of labor concerning women and children, who were thought to be incapable of bargaining on an equal footing with employers and in special need of protection. Men were allowed freedom of contract unless it could be proven that regulating their hours served a higher good for the population at large.\n\nDuring the turn of the twentieth century, the push for an eight-hour workday was geared primarily toward raising the hourly wage. The idea was that by maintaining the current weekly pay while lowering working hours, a fairer rate of pay would result. The slogan, \"Whether you work by the piece or work by the day, decreasing the hours increases the pay,\" seemed to carry the mood of the day.\n\nThe early twentieth century laid the groundwork for the idea of work-life balance. Advancements in social sciences would move the focus towards the impact of long hours on the physical and mental health of the employee.\n\nAt this time, however, the new information was used to enhance productivity for the company. The shorter hours movement began to focus on the fact that an overworked employee is more prone to injury or mistake and becomes less productive. Josephine Goldmark wrote a book in 1912 detailing this fact and the Federal Public Works Act was passed the same year.\n\nThis new act required a 40-hour workweek for employees of government contracted firms. Over the next ten years, the government passed legislation requiring a 40-hour work week for individual industries nearly every time the issue arose in court.\n\nWhen the employees of the steel industry failed to obtain a reduction from their 84-hour work week in 1919, the industry soon allowed their employees an eight-hour workday, a four-hour-per-day reduction—a move brought about by much \"arm-twisting\" on the part of President Harding.\n\nBy the 1920s, the average work week was fifty hours and was considered a great stride and well-earned award for America's working man. (Whaples) The push for fewer hours had come to a close, but they had one more hurdle to overcome. The new concentration was on the ability to work half a day on Saturdays or have the day off completely. The ability to have two days of rest was unprecedented but was considered vital to finalize an ethical work schedule. Pressure was put on businesses to make the change, especially in industries and cities with a large number of Jewish workers (Jewish Sabbath is on Saturday), and they finally achieved this goal by the end of the decade. Where only thirty-two firms had a five-day workweek in 1920, nearly half had adopted the practice by 1927.\n\nTheir success was short-lived. In the 1920s, the workers were coaxed into believing that they wanted to work longer hours and that they would be harmed by measures that limited how many hours they were allowed to work. Social scientists would later name this force the \"gospel of consumption.\" Beginning in the 1920s, advertisers persuaded Americans that happiness would not come from leisure time, but from purchasing commodities, and he concluded that this made it easier for managers to \"allow\" workers to make more money by working longer hours.\n\nSocial scientists would conclude that a new work ethic began as Americans left the psychology of scarcity and adopted one of abundance. Some argue that this mentality of consumption or \"consumerism\" persists to this day.\n\nDuring the twentieth century, the average workweek has changed drastically. In 1900, the average workweek in manufacturing was approximately fifty-three hours. However, the workweek is responsive to business conditions. During the Great Depression, the average number of hours for production workers in manufacturing dropped to 34.6 each week. During World War II, hours worked rose to forty-five each week.\n\nThe normal range of hours worked during the four decades after World War II was thirty-nine to forty-one hours; (Whaples) however, starting in the 1990s, factory workweek hours began to exceed forty-one hours. As previously mentioned, Americans work approximately 47.1 hours each week; some employees work up to seventy hours. Therefore, it is safe to state that the average number of hours Americans presently work each week is the highest it has been in nearly seventy-five years.\n\nIn 1900, only nineteen percent of women of working age were in the labor force. In 1999 sixty percent of women worked outside the home. Even if the hours worked were slightly higher at the turn of the century, most households were supported by one paycheck. \"In 1900, eighty percent of American children had a working father and a stay-at-home mother; however, by 1999, that figure was only twenty-four percent.\"\n\nDuring the Great Depression, working hours were reduced. By 1932, approximately fifty percent of Americans were working a shortened work week. Instead of reducing wages, employers decided to lay off many workers and attempted to protect the employees that remained by encouraging them to job share.\n\nPresident Herbert Hoover's Commission for Work Sharing pushed voluntary hours reductions, and it is estimated that nearly three to five million jobs had been saved. (Whaples) Companies such as Sears, General Motors, and Standard Oil reduced the number of days worked each week, and Akron began a six-hour workday. The AFL began to call for a federally mandated 30-hour workweek.\n\nBy 1933, some experts were predicting that the \"thirty-hour workweek was within a month of becoming federal law.\" Congress began hearings on mandating the 30-hour workweek, and the Senate even passed the bill (which was written by Hugo Black and sponsored in the House by William Connery) fifty-three to thirty.\n\nNewly elected President, Franklin Roosevelt initially supported the bill, but had second thoughts when he realized that the bill had a provision to forbid importation of goods produced by workers who worked longer than thirty hours a week. Instead, Roosevelt began to support the National Industrial Recovery Act. Labor leaders were encouraged to support the NIRA instead of the Black-Connery Thirty-Hour Bill with a guarantee of union organization and collective bargaining. With the threat of a mandated 30-hour work week, businesses \"fell into line.\" When specifics codes for the NIRA were drawn up, shorter hours were no longer a genuine concern.\n\nAfter the Great Depression ended, the average weekly hours worked began to rise. (According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, in 1934 the average hours worked each week was approximately thirty-four hours). During World War II, hours increased by approximately ten hours a week but, in the aftermath of the war, weekly work hours averaged forty hours.\n\nWith automation of the workplace in \"full swing\" by the 1970s, large numbers of women began entering the work force and an \"awareness of stress rose to the forefront\". In the publication \"Type A Behavior and Your Heart\", cardiologists Meyer Friedman and Ray H. Rosenman wrote about the \"hurry sickness\" common to \"workaholics\"—people who had no friends and who \"never relaxed or went to museums\".\n\nIn the late 1970s, Professor Robert Karasek of the University of Lowell (now known as University of Massachusetts Lowell) developed a method for analyzing stress-producing factors in the workplace. It has been widely employed to examine workplace pressures and their relationship with research data on coronary heart disease, musculoskeletal illnesses, psychological strain and absenteeism. Karasek explains, \"In situations where an individual has high demands on him and low control, the undesirable stress of work and other situations becomes problematic.\"\n\nThe 1980s brought new complaints of work-life balance related stress. This time period was given such names as \"the ME generation,\" \"the age of narcissism\" and \"the pursuit of loneliness.\" The number of cases of emotional depression in the United States was believed to have doubled between 1970 and 1990.\n\n\"What you do is what you are\" was the common and unhealthy assumption. According to 'The Workaholic Syndrome', written by Judith K. Sprankle and Henry Ebel, \"By their sheer numbers and the consequently narrowing opportunities at every upward run of the organizational ladder, the baby-boomers have been compelled to do more, to move faster, to compete harder. They, in turn, have set the pace for other age groups. The signs of increased stress are legion and have been intensified by an economic climate that mandates that if we marry at all, we marry a working spouse.\"\n\nIn the late 1980s, the \"computer revolution\" was not only responsible for corporate downsizing, but also increased the demand of employee output. Social critic Jeremy Rifkin states, \"Back in the agriculture-based society, people were more attuned to generatively, and middle-stress disorders and diseases of affluence were not part of life. They weren't triggered until the Industrial Age, and now the Information Age has worsened them. Nowadays, instead of seconds, it's nanoseconds. We have moved from designing a schedule that real people can execute in whatever time it takes them, to a program which people can monitor but can't affect.\"\n\nIn the 1980s, the number of workers' compensation claims for \"gradual mental stress\" began to rise. Claims rose from 1,844 cases in 1981 to 15,688 in 1999 in the state of California alone. Because of the large number of cases as well as evidence of numerous cases of fraud, efforts were made in the early 1990s to reform the workers compensation program. Led by Republican Governor of California Pete Wilson and Democratic Party State assembly Speaker Willie Brown, the new law stated that claimants had to prove that stress was at least 51 percent of the reason for their illness.\n\nUnfortunately, because of these reforms some feel that it is now extremely difficult to be approved for workers compensation. John Burton, dean of the school of management and labor relations at Rutgers University feels that part of the reason for the decline is that \"a number of states made it difficult to get stress into the system.\n\nSo even if the stress is out there, it's not showing up (in the compensation statistics). Some of it shows up in the rising violence, which is a crude proxy for the stress out there.\"\n\nThe 1990s saw the introduction of additional laws designed to help the American worker. One current law that guarantees employees time off is the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 signed under U.S. President Bill Clinton. According to the Family and Medical Leave Act, any \"eligible\" employee is entitled to twelve weeks of leave for immediate family member need and medical reasons during a twelve-month period. An employee's spouse, children, and parents are considered immediate family.\n\nThe term \"parent\" does not include an employee's in-laws or children over the age of eighteen unless they are \"incapable of self-care\" because of mental or physical disability that limits one or more of the \"major life activities.\" Employees are eligible to take FMLA leave if they have worked for their employer for at least twelve months, have worked at least 1,250 hours during the previous twelve months, and have worked at a company with a minimum of fifty employees that work either at that work site or at work sites within a seventy-five mile radius.\n\nEmployers may select one of four options for determining the required twelve-month period. They can decide to determine eligibility by the calendar year, by any fixed twelve-month \"leave year\" such as a fiscal year, a year required by state law, or a year starting on the employee's \"anniversary\" date, by the twelve-month period measured forward from the date when an employee's first FMLA leave begins, or by a \"rolling\" twelve-month period measured backward from the date an employee uses FMLA leave.\n\nPregnancy disability leave or maternity leave for the birth of a child would be considered qualifying FMLA leave. This law, however, does not guarantee paid time off; the FMLA only requires unpaid leave. However, the law permits an employee to elect, or the employer to require the employee, to use accrued paid leave, such as vacation or sick leave, for some or all of the FMLA leave period. It is unlawful for any employer to deny the right of any eligible employee the use of FMLA leave.\n\nIn addition to the Family Leave and Medical Act, there are many other federal and state statutes that allow employees legal time off from work. Massachusetts enacted the Small Necessities Leave Act in 1998 which expanded upon the rights guaranteed by the FMLA.\n\nThe Small Necessities Leave Act allows eligible employees a total of twenty-four hours of unpaid leave during any twelve-month period, \"over and above\" the leave granted by the FMLA. This act allows an employee to participate in school activities directly related to the \"educational advancement\" of his/her child. This includes parent-teacher conferences, \"back to school\" activities, and even interviewing for a new school.\n\nThe term \"school\" includes any public or private elementary or secondary schools, Head Start programs, and licensed children's day care centers. (Gallitano) The SNLA also allows employees to attend routine medical or dental appointments with their children. In addition, the employee is allowed to accompany an \"elderly relative\" to medical or dental appointments or any other services that provide professional services related to elder care. (The elderly relative must be at least sixty years old and be related by blood or marriage to the employee) The SNLA includes time off to arrange for professional care at a nursing home or rehabilitation facility.\n\nThe eligibility required for leave under the Small Necessities Leave Act is the same as for eligibility under the Family and Medical Leave Act and, like the FMLA, the employer is permitted to choose the method for determining which twelve-month period will apply when calculating the twenty-four hours of leave that may be taken by the employee. Leaves of absences can be taken intermittently.\n\nFor example, if the employee needs to take off two hours in the morning to attend a parent-teacher conference, the employer may not require the employee to take time off in blocks of half or full days. Also, the employer is given the option of requesting certification (from a physician or school, for example) for leave requests.\n\nMassachusetts created the Massachusetts Maternity Leave Statute in 1972. This law provides eight weeks of leave to female employees who have met certain criteria. This statute applies to all employers having six or more employees. Those eligible under the Massachusetts statute must be full-time employees who have completed three months of work. It also applies when an eligible female adopts a child under eighteen years old (or under twenty-three if the child is mentally or physically disabled). The employer can decide if this leave will be paid or unpaid. If the leave is unpaid, the employer must permit the employee to use accrued paid sick, vacation, or personal time, but the employer may not require the employee to use that accrued time.\n\nMassachusetts also has a statute, known as the Wage and Hour Law, which creates a number of additional rights for employees regarding time off. Massachusetts law requires employers to provide a thirty-minute meal break to every employee who works more than six hours a day; it does not require that the meal break be paid. Another form of time off from work that is governed by the statute is the creation of \"legal holidays.\"\n\nMassachusetts law presently includes eleven legal holidays. If employees are required to work on a legal holiday (such as retail employees) they must be paid at a rate of one and a half times their normal pay rate. Massachusetts also has a \"Day of Rest\" statute that provides that all employees are entitled to one day off from work in seven calendar days.\n\nMany employers offer short and /or long-term disability insurance to their employees. These plans offer wage replacement benefits for employees who are not able to work based on a physical or mental condition. There are no laws requiring an employer to grant paid vacations to its employees in Massachusetts. However, nearly all employers provide paid vacation benefits in some form in order to remain competitive.\n\nBesides the different compensation structures between exempt and nonexempt workers (for example, exempt employees are excluded from minimum wage and are paid a salary rather than minimum wage; whereas, nonexempt employees must be paid at least the federal minimum wage for each hour worked), there are differences in overtime requirements and expectations.\n\nExempt employees are usually expected to work the number of hours necessary to complete their tasks, regardless of whether that requires thirty-five or fifty-five hours per week. On the other hand, nonexempt employees must be paid overtime if they work more than forty hours per week. If an exempt employee's \"tasks\" are extensive and time-consuming, he/she is required to put in an indeterminable number of hours at the workplace. If staying late or coming in early is required to do the job, exempt employees are frequently expected to do just that. This could cut down on the amount of time he/she has for family, friends, or leisure activities, increase stress, and could even lead to Occupational Burnout.\n\nWork-life balance has been a controversial issue for workers across the United States for decades.Long work hours are based partly on some business's long operating schedules, while many European countries do not. According to the OECD Better Life Index the United States ranked 28th in work-life balance while European nations dominate this category.\n\nCountries adopt welfare state, which determines the role the government takes to preserve the well being of the citizen. The United States developed a limited welfare state in 1930.\n\nDenmark, Sweden and Norway are ranked in the top 10 countries with the best work-life balance and have all adopted the Social-Democratic Welfare State Regime . This system promotes many appealing benefits for single men, women and families. In Denmark new parents are guaranteed 52 weeks of paid leave and universal childcare facilities. Sweden also has an attractive parental leave insuring workers 480 days of paid parental leave. For the Swedish long work hours have been replaced with 6-hour workdays with 1% of the population working more than 50 hours a week.\n\nOther countries like Spain, Germany and the Netherlands are leading in successful work-life balance by adopting the Mediterranean and Conservative Regimes. Within this welfare state there's a focus on traditional family values and gender norm. According to Dr. Deirdre Anderson of Cranfield School of Management \"women's place in the labor market is fairly low\" compared to the United States, which allows time for family and additional source of income. In Spain gender norms have created the availability of part-time jobs that are typically \"employed\" by women. The Netherlands follows the same approach on part-time employment as Spain and has \"more than half of the working population work part time\". Another benefit of work-life balance within this welfare state is the approach on vacation days. Germans are required by law to have 20 paid days off a year and their Dutch counterparts also are insured 20 vacation days.\n\nThe common factor between the nations that have prosperous work-life balance is flexible working hours, parental leave and child care policies.\n\nA study conducted in 2009 concluded that 39% of working women and 45% of working men experience issues with work-life balance.\n\nFull-time male employees worked an average of 8.4 hours per day in 2014, compared with the 7.8 hours worked by women. But nearly 8 million more women than men worked part-time last year. 2013 and 2014 states that 57 percent of women participated in the labor force. Since 1975, the rate of working mothers has risen from 47.4 percent to 70.3 percent.\n\nWomen became more prominent in the professional workforce during the 1970s even after getting married and having children. Today women make up 47 percent of the labor force, compared to 38 percent in 1970. Mothers entering the workforce was a shift in traditional values for women and mothers, however in the 2010s, 70% of high school students surveyed believed that mothers could have a healthy relationship with their mother, as opposed to 53% in the 1970s.\n\nStudies show the paid family leave and paid sick days are the issues women care about over any other work-life policy issue. In a poll conducted in November 2008, 35% of women felt that issues in work-life balance for women would be best addressed through paid family leave and sick days. Both genders actually feel that these concerns better address work-life balance with growing concerns of watching children, older family members, and ill family members. The United States is the only high-income country that does not guarantee the right to paid maternity leave.\n\nStudy show increasing paid leave and flexibility at work\n\n↑Benefits companies\n\n↑Increase productivity\n\n↑Helps recruit more talented workers\n\n↑Lowers worker turnover\n\n↑Replacement costs\n\n↑Reduces absenteeism\n\n↑Boosts profits and cut costs\n\nBenefits Shareholders\n\n↑Lifts a company's stock price when announced\n\n↑Shares outperform over the long-term\n\nBenefits Workers\n\n↑Improves job satisfaction\n\n↑Alleviates challenges affecting work-family balance\n\n"}
