{"id": "20759896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20759896", "title": "3rd meridian west", "text": "3rd meridian west\n\nThe meridian 3° west of Greenwich is a line of longitude that extends from the North Pole across the Arctic Ocean, the Atlantic Ocean, Europe, Africa, the Southern Ocean, and Antarctica to the South Pole.\n\nThe 3rd meridian west forms a great circle with the 177th meridian east.\n\nStarting at the North Pole and heading south to the South Pole, the 3rd meridian west passes through:\n\n"}
{"id": "18167317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18167317", "title": "70th parallel north", "text": "70th parallel north\n\nThe 70th parallel north is a circle of latitude that is 70 degrees north of the Earth's equatorial plane, in the Arctic. It crosses the Atlantic Ocean, Europe, Asia and North America, and passes through some of the southern seas of the Arctic Ocean.\n\nAt this latitude the sun is visible for 24 hours, 0 minutes during the summer solstice and Civil Twilight during the winter solstice.\n\nStarting at the Prime Meridian and heading eastwards, the parallel 70° north passes through:\n\n"}
{"id": "2236052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2236052", "title": "Alaska Current", "text": "Alaska Current\n\nThe Alaska Current is a southwestern warm-water current along the coast of British Columbia and the Alaska Panhandle. The current results from the northward diversion of a portion of the North Pacific Current when that current meets the west coast of the North American continent. It forms a part of the Alaska Current and continues into the Alaskan Stream, which begins near Kodiak Island and flows southwestward along the Alaska Peninsula. The Alaska Current produces large clockwise eddies at two sites: west of the Queen Charlotte Islands (\"Queen Charlotte Eddy\" or \"Haida Eddies\") and west of Sitka, Alaska (\"Sitka Eddy\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2376877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2376877", "title": "Baritú National Park", "text": "Baritú National Park\n\nThe Baritú National Park () is a national park in Argentina, located in the Santa Victoria Department, in the north of the province of Salta, in the Argentine Northwest. The park borders Bolivia (Tarija province), and its only road access is through that country. It has an area of and it is the only tropical park in Argentina.\n\nThe park was created in 1974. It is bordered by mountains. The protected area belongs to the Southern Andean Yungas ecoregion, which is located in the Sub-Andean mountain range, with heights averaging . The climate is wet and hot, with summer rainfall that goes from .\n\nThe fauna of the park includes several endangered species, such as the jaguar and the onza.\n\nThe \"cedro salteño\" trees (\"Salta cedrelas\") reach huge sizes in this region. Their wood is considered extremely valuable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4917", "title": "Ben Nevis", "text": "Ben Nevis\n\nBen Nevis (, ; ) is the highest mountain in the British Isles. Standing at above sea level, it is at the western end of the Grampian Mountains in the Lochaber area of the Scottish Highlands, close to the town of Fort William.\n\nThe mountain is a popular destination, attracting an estimated 100,000 ascents a year, around three-quarters of which use the Pony Track from Glen Nevis.\nThe cliffs of the north face are among the highest in Scotland, providing classic scrambles and rock climbs of all difficulties for climbers and mountaineers. They are also the principal locations in Scotland for ice climbing.\n\nThe summit, which is the collapsed dome of an ancient volcano, features the ruins of an observatory which was continuously staffed between 1883 and 1904. The meteorological data collected during this period are still important for understanding Scottish mountain weather. C. T. R. Wilson was inspired to invent the cloud chamber after a period spent working at the observatory.\n\n\"Ben Nevis\" is an Anglicisation of the Scottish Gaelic name \"Beinn Nibheis\". \"Beinn\" is the most common Gaelic word for \"mountain\", \"Nibheis\" is variously understood, though the word is commonly translated as \"malicious\" or \"venomous\". An alternative interpretation is that \"Beinn Nibheis\" derives from \"beinn nèamh-bhathais\", from \"nèamh\" \"heavens, clouds\" and \"bathais\" \"top of a man's head\". One translation would therefore be \"the mountain with its head in the clouds\", though \"mountain of Heaven\" is also frequently given.\n\nAs is common for many Scottish mountains, it is known both to locals and visitors as simply \"the Ben\".\n\nBen Nevis forms a massif with its neighbour to the northeast, Càrn Mòr Dearg, to which it is linked by the Càrn Mòr Dearg Arête. Both mountains are among the nine in Scotland over ; Aonach Beag and Aonach Mòr are also on the Nevis massif.\n\nThe western and southern flanks of Ben Nevis rise in about from the floor of Glen Nevis – the longest and steepest hill slope in Britain – with the result that the mountain presents an aspect of massive bulk on this side. To the north, by contrast, cliffs drop some to Coire Leis (pronounced Koruh Laysh.) A descent of 200 metres from this corrie leads to the Charles Inglis Clark Memorial Hut (known as the CIC Hut), a private mountain hut above sea level, owned by the Scottish Mountaineering Club and used as a base for the many climbing routes on the mountain's north face. The hut is just above the confluence of Allt a' Mhuilinn and Allt Coire na Ciste.\nIn addition to the main summit, Ben Nevis has two subsidiary \"tops\" listed in Munro's Tables, both of which are called Càrn Dearg (\"red hill\"). The higher of these, at , is to the northwest, and is often mistaken for Ben Nevis itself in views from the Fort William area. The other Càrn Dearg () juts out into Glen Nevis on the mountain's southwestern side. A lower hill, Meall an t-Suidhe (), is further west, forming a saddle with Ben Nevis which contains a small loch, Lochan Meall an t-Suidhe. The popular tourist path from Glen Nevis skirts the side of this hill before ascending Ben Nevis's broad western flank.\n\nBen Nevis is all that remains of a Devonian volcano that met a cataclysmic end in the Carboniferous period around 350 million years ago. Evidence near the summit shows light-coloured granite (which had cooled in subterranean chambers several kilometres beneath the surface) lies among dark basaltic lavas (that form only on the surface). The two lying side-by-side is evidence the huge volcano collapsed in on itself creating an explosion comparable to Thera (2nd millennium BC) or Krakatoa (1883).\nThe mountain is now all that remains of the imploded inner dome of the volcano.\nIts form has been extensively shaped by glaciation.\n\nResearch has shown igneous rock from the Devonian period (around 400 million years ago) intrudes into the surrounding metamorphic schists; the intrusions take the form of a series of concentric ring dikes. The innermost of these, known as the Inner Granite, constitutes the southern bulk of the mountain above Lochan Meall an t-Suidhe, and also the neighbouring ridge of Càrn Mòr Dearg; Meall an t-Suidhe forms part of the Outer Granite, which is redder in colour. The summit dome itself, together with the steep northern cliffs, is composed of andesite and basaltic lavas.\n\nBen Nevis has a highland (alpine) maritime (oceanic) Polar climate (\"ET\" climate in Köppen's classification). Ben Nevis's altitude, maritime location and topography frequently lead to cool and cloudy weather conditions, which can pose a danger to ill-equipped walkers. According to the observations carried out at the summit observatory from 1883–1904, fog was present on the summit for almost 80 per cent of the time between November and January, and 55 per cent of the time in May and June. The average winter temperature was around , and the mean monthly temperature for the year was . In an average year the summit sees 261 gales, and receives of rainfall, compared to only in nearby Fort William, in Inverness and in London. Rainfall on Ben Nevis is about twice as high in the winter as it is in the spring and summer. Snow can be found on the mountain almost all year round, particularly in the gullies of the north face – with the higher reaches of Observatory Gully holding snow until September most years and sometimes until the new snows of the following season.\n\nThe first recorded ascent of Ben Nevis was made on 17 August 1771 by James Robertson, an Edinburgh botanist, who was in the region to collect botanical specimens. Another early ascent was in 1774 by John Williams, who provided the first account of the mountain's geological structure. John Keats climbed the mountain in 1818, comparing the ascent to \"mounting ten St. Pauls without the convenience of a staircase\". The following year William MacGillivray, who was later to become a distinguished naturalist, reached the summit only to find \"fragments of earthen and glass ware, chicken bones, corks, and bits of paper\". It was not until 1847 that Ben Nevis was confirmed by the Ordnance Survey as the highest mountain in Britain and Ireland, ahead of its rival Ben Macdhui.\n\nThe summit observatory was built in the summer of 1883, and would remain in operation for 21 years. The first path to the summit was built at the same time as the observatory and was designed to allow ponies to carry up supplies, with a maximum gradient of one in five. The opening of the path and the observatory made the ascent of the Ben increasingly popular, all the more so after the arrival of the West Highland Railway in Fort William in 1894. Around this time the first of several proposals was made for a rack railway to the summit, none of which came to fruition.\n\nIn 2000, the Ben Nevis Estate, comprising all of the south side of the mountain including the summit, was bought by the Scottish conservation charity the John Muir Trust.\n\nIn 2016, the height of Ben Nevis was officially remeasured to be 1344.527m by Ordnance Survey. The height of Ben Nevis will therefore be shown on new Ordnance Survey maps as instead of the now obsolete value of .\n\nThe 1883 Pony Track to the summit (also known as the \"Ben Path\", the \"Mountain Path\" or the \"Tourist Route\") remains the simplest and most popular route of ascent. It begins at Achintee on the east side of Glen Nevis about from Fort William town centre, at around 20 metres above sea level. Bridges from the Visitor Centre and the youth hostel now allow access from the west side of Glen Nevis. The path climbs steeply to the saddle by Lochan Meall an t-Suidhe (colloquially known as the 'Halfway Lake') at 570 m, then ascends the remaining 700 metres up the stony west flank of Ben Nevis in a series of zig-zags. The path is regularly maintained but running water, uneven rocks and loose scree make it hazardous and slippery in places. Thanks to the zig-zags, the path is not unusually steep apart from in the initial stages, but inexperienced walkers should be aware that the descent is relatively arduous and wearing on the knees.\nA route popular with experienced hillwalkers starts at Torlundy, a few miles north-east of Fort William on the A82 road, and follows the path alongside the Allt a' Mhuilinn. It can also be reached from Glen Nevis by following the Pony Track as far as Lochan Meall an t-Suidhe, then descending slightly to the CIC Hut. The route then ascends Càrn Mòr Dearg and continues along the Càrn Mòr Dearg Arête (\"CMD Arête\") before climbing steeply to the summit of Ben Nevis. This route involves a total of 1,500 metres of ascent and requires modest scrambling ability and a head for heights. In common with other approaches on this side of the mountain, it has the advantage of giving an extensive view of the cliffs of the north face, which are hidden from the Pony Track.\n\nIt is also possible to climb Ben Nevis from the Nevis Gorge car park at Steal at the head of the road up Glen Nevis, either by the south-east ridge or via the summit of Càrn Dearg (south-west). These routes require mild scrambling, are shorter and steeper than the Pony Track, and tend only to be used by experienced hill walkers.\n\nThe summit of Ben Nevis comprises a large stony plateau of about . The highest point is marked with a large, solidly built cairn atop which sits an Ordnance Survey trig point. The summit is the highest ground for over , before the Scandinavian Mountains in western Norway are reached, which contain many peaks higher than Ben Nevis. The summit is much higher than the Faroe Islands as well as the rest of the British Isles.\n\nThe ruined walls of the observatory are a prominent feature on the summit. An emergency shelter has been built on top of the observatory tower for the benefit of those caught out by bad weather. Although the base of the tower is slightly lower than the true summit of the mountain, the roof of the shelter overtops the trig point by several feet, making it the highest man-made structure in the UK. A war memorial to the dead of World War II is located next to the observatory.\n\nOn 17 May 2006, a piano that had been buried under one of the cairns on the peak was uncovered by the John Muir Trust, which owns much of the mountain. The piano is believed to have been carried up for charity by removal men from Dundee over 20 years earlier.\n\nThe view from the UK's highest point is extensive. Under ideal conditions, it can extend to over , including such mountains as the Torridon Hills, Morven in Caithness, Lochnagar, Ben Lomond, Barra Head and to Knocklayd in County Antrim, Northern Ireland.\n\nA meteorological observatory on the summit was first proposed by the Scottish Meteorological Society (SMS) in the late-1870s, at a time when similar observatories were being built around the world to study the weather at high altitude. In the summer of 1881, Clement Lindley Wragge climbed the mountain daily to make observations (earning him the nickname \"Inclement Rag\"), leading to the opening on 17 October 1883 of a permanent observatory run by the SMS. The building was manned full-time until 1904, when it was closed due to inadequate funding. The twenty years worth of readings still provide the most comprehensive set of data on mountain weather in Great Britain.\n\nIn September 1894, C. T. R. Wilson was employed at the observatory for a couple of weeks as temporary relief for one of the permanent staff. During this period, he witnessed a Brocken spectre and glory, caused by the sun casting a shadow on a cloud below the observer. He subsequently tried to reproduce these phenomena in the laboratory, resulting in his invention of the cloud chamber, used to detect ionising radiation.\n\nMarjory Roy, a member of the Scottish Meteorological Society is the author of the book \"The Ben Nevis Weathermen\", which is in print and available from SMC or from the West Highland Museum in Fort William. This tells the story of the funding, building and operating of the Ben Nevis Observatory in Fort William, Scotland.\n\nBen Nevis's popularity, climate and complex topography contribute to a high number of mountain rescue incidents. In 1999, for example, there were 41 rescues and four fatalities on the mountain. Some accidents arise over difficulties in navigating to or from the summit, especially in poor visibility. The problem stems from the fact that the summit plateau is roughly kidney-shaped and surrounded by cliffs on three sides; the danger is particularly accentuated when the main path is obscured by snow. Two precise compass bearings taken in succession are necessary to navigate from the summit cairn to the west flank, from where a descent can be made on the Pony Track in relative safety.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Lochaber Mountain Rescue Team erected two posts on the summit plateau to assist walkers attempting the descent in foggy conditions. These posts were subsequently cut down by climbers, sparking controversy in mountaineering circles on the ethics of such additions. Critics argued that cairns and posts are an unnecessary man-made intrusion into the natural landscape, which create a false sense of security and could lessen mountaineers' sense of responsibility for their own safety. Supporters of navigational aids pointed to the high number of accidents that occurred on the mountain (between 1990 and 1995 alone there were 13 fatalities, although eight of these were due to falls while rock climbing rather than navigational error), the long tradition of placing such aids on the summit, and the potentially life-saving role they could play. A series of solidly-constructed cairns currently (September 2009) marks the upper reaches of the Pony Track.\n\nThe north face of Ben Nevis is riven with buttresses, ridges, towers and pinnacles, and contains many classic scrambles and rock climbs. It is of major importance for British winter climbing, with many of its routes holding snow often until late April. It was one of the first places in Scotland to receive the attention of serious mountaineers, with an ascent of Tower Ridge in 1892 the earliest documented climbing expedition on the Ben. (It was not climbed from bottom to top for another two years). The Scottish Mountaineering Club's Charles Inglis Clark hut was built below the north face in Coire Leis in 1929. Because of its remote location, it is said to be the only genuine alpine hut in Britain. It remains popular with climbers, especially in winter.\n\nTower Ridge is the longest of the north face's four main ridges, with around 600 metres of ascent. It is not technically demanding (its grade is Difficult), and most pitches can be tackled unroped by competent climbers, but it is committing and very exposed. Castle Ridge (Moderate), the northernmost of the main ridges, is an easier scramble, while Observatory Ridge (Very Difficult), the closest ridge to the summit, is \"technically the hardest of the Nevis ridges in summer and winter\". Between the Tower and Observatory Ridges are the Tower and Gardyloo Gullies; the latter takes its name from the cry of \"garde à l'eau\" (French for \"watch out for the water\") formerly used in Scottish cities as a warning when householders threw their slops (and worse) out of a tenement window into the street. The gully's top wall was the refuse pit for the now-disused summit observatory. The North-east Buttress (Very Difficult) is the southernmost and bulkiest of the four ridges; it is as serious as Observatory Ridge but not as technically demanding, mainly because an \"infamous\" rock problem, the 'Man-trap', can be avoided on either side.\nThe north face contains dozens of graded rock climbs along its entire length, with particular concentrations on the Càrn Dearg Buttress (below the Munro top of Càrn Dearg NW) and around the North-east Buttress and Observatory Ridge. Classic rock routes include \"Rubicon Wall\" on Observatory Buttress (Severe) – whose second ascent in 1937, when it was considered the hardest route on the mountain, is described by W. H. Murray in \"Mountaineering in Scotland\" – and, on Càrn Dearg, \"Centurion\" and \"The Bullroar\" (both HVS), \"Torro\" (E2), and \"Titan's Wall\" (E3), these four described in the SMC's guide as among \"the best climbs of their class in Scotland\".\n\nMany seminal lines were recorded before the First World War by pioneering Scottish climbers like J N Collie, Willie Naismith, Harold Raeburn, and William and Jane Inglis Clark. Other classic routes were put up by G. Graham Macphee, Dr James H. B. Bell and others between the Wars; these include Bell's 'Long Climb', at reputedly the longest sustained climb on the British mainland. In summer 1943 conscientious objector Brian Kellett made a phenomenal seventy-four repeat climbs and seventeen first ascents including fourteen solos, returning in 1944 to add fifteen more new lines, eleven solo, including his eponymous HVS on Gardyloo buttress. Much more recently, an extreme and as-yet ungraded climb on Echo Wall was completed by Dave MacLeod in 2008 after two years of preparation.\nThe north face is also one of Scotland's foremost venues for winter mountaineering and ice climbing, and holds snow until quite late in the year; in a good year, routes may remain in winter condition until mid-spring. Most of the possible rock routes are also suitable as winter climbs, including the four main ridges; Tower Ridge, for example, is grade IV on the Scottish winter grading system, having been upgraded in 2009 by the Scottish Mountaineering Club after requests by the local Mountain Rescue Team, there being numerous benightments and incidents every winter season. Probably the most popular ice climb on Ben Nevis is \"The Curtain\" (IV,5) on the left side of the Càrn Dearg Buttress. At the top end of the scale, \"Centurion\" in winter is a grade VIII,8 face climb.\n\nIn February 1960 James R. Marshall and Robin Clark Smith recorded six major new ice routes in only eight days including Orion Direct (V,5 400m); this winter version of Bell's Long Climb was \"the climax of a magnificent week's climbing by Smith and Marshall, and the highpoint of the step-cutting era.\"\n\nThe history of hill running on Ben Nevis dates back to 1895. William Swan, a barber from Fort William, made the first recorded timed ascent up the mountain on or around 27 September of that year, when he ran from the old post office in Fort William to the summit and back in 2 hours 41 minutes.\nThe following years saw several improvements on Swan's record, but the first competitive race was held on 3 June 1898 under Scottish Amateur Athletic Association rules. Ten competitors ran the course, which started at the Lochiel Arms Hotel in Banavie and was thus longer than the route from Fort William; the winner was 21-year-old Hugh Kennedy, a gamekeeper at Tor Castle, who finished (coincidentally with Swan's original run) in 2 hours 41 minutes.\n\nRegular races were organised until 1903, when two events were held; these were the last for 24 years, perhaps due to the closure of the summit observatory the following year. The first was from Achintee, at the foot of the Pony Track, and finished at the summit; It was won in just over an hour by Ewen MacKenzie, the observatory roadman. The second race ran from new Fort William post office, and MacKenzie lowered the record to 2 hours 10 minutes, a record he held for 34 years.\n\nThe Ben Nevis Race has been run in its current form since 1937. It now takes place on the first Saturday in September every year, with a maximum of 500 competitors taking part. It starts and finishes at the Claggan Park football ground on the outskirts of Fort William, and is long with of ascent. Due to the seriousness of the mountain environment, entry is restricted to those who have completed three hill races, and runners must carry waterproofs, a hat, gloves and a whistle; anyone who has not reached the summit after two hours is turned back. As of 2010 the records have stood unbroken since 1984, when Kenny Stuart and Pauline Haworth of Keswick Athletic Club won the men's and the women's races with times of 1:25:34 and 1:43:25 respectively.\n\nBen Nevis is becoming popular with ski mountaineers and boarders. The Red Burn (Allt Coire na h-Urcaire) just to the North of the tourist path gives the easiest descent, but most if not all of the easier gullies on the North Face have been skied, as has the slope once adorned by the abseil poles into Coire Leis. No 4 gully is probably the most skied. Although Tower scoop makes it a no-fall zone, Tower Gully is becoming popular, especially in May and June when there is spring snow.\nBen Nevis's popularity and high-profile have led to concerns in recent decades over the impact of humans on the fragile mountain environment. These concerns contributed to the creation of The Nevis Landscape Partnership, a five-year programme which aims to protect, enhance and future-proof Ben Nevis by delivering nineteen ambitious environmental projects between 2014 and 2019. The Nevis Landscape Partnership is supported by five partner organisations (John Muir Trust, Forestry Commission Scotland, The Highland Council, Scottish Natural Heritage & The Nevis Partnership) and has been made possible by Heritage Lottery Funding.\n\nNow in project year three (March 2016 – March 2017), there have been significant positive changes implemented by Nevis Landscape Partnership and their projects, most significantly the upgrades to the Ben Nevis Mountain Track. Work to upgrade the mountain track started in November 2015 after two contracts were awarded to McGowan Ltd. & Cairngorm Wilderness Contracts. Both contractors immediately started bagging stone from high up Ben Nevis to be brought down to by helicopter to replace crumbling steps and stabilise eroding parts of the path. The project will eventually upgrade 3.5 km of the mountain track from the starting point at Achintee all the way up to John's Wall; this year the maintenance was focused on a difficult middle section which was most in need of attention. After six months of hard work and battling with the weather, the contractors have now upgraded 1 km of the mountain track which is roughly 30% of the overall maintenance this project will carry out. The next contracted works will resume towards the end of September, after the Ben Nevis Race, for stage two of the project.\n\nVolunteer effort has already been a huge help and will continue to be a large contributing factor to the overall upgrade of the mountain track. Nevis Landscape Partnership are working closely with National Trust for Scotland to run Thistle Camp Working Holidays which will focus on much-needed maintenance on the first section of the Ben Nevis footpath and allow outdoor enthusiasts to actively be a part of maintaining and protecting the United Kingdom's highest mountain for this generation and many more to come.\n\nThe Ben Nevis Distillery is a single malt whisky distillery at the foot of the mountain, near Victoria Bridge to the north of Fort William. Founded in 1825 by John McDonald (known as \"Long John\"), it is one of the oldest licensed distilleries in Scotland, and is a popular visitor attraction in Fort William. The water used to make the whisky comes from the Allt a' Mhuilinn, the stream that flows from Ben Nevis's northern corrie. \"Ben Nevis\" 80/- organic ale is, by contrast, brewed in Bridge of Allan near Stirling.\n\n\"Ben Nevis\" was the name of a White Star Line packet ship which in 1854 carried the group of immigrants who were to become the Wends of Texas. At least another eight vessels have carried the name since then.\n\nA mountain in Svalbard is also named Ben Nevis, after the Scottish peak. It is 922 metres high, and is south of the head of Raudfjorden, Albert I Land, in the northwestern part of the island of Spitsbergen.\n\nA comic strip character, Wee Ben Nevis, about a Scottish Highlands boarding school student with superhuman strength and his antics were featured in the British comic \"The Beano\" from 1974 to 1977, was named after the mountain.\n\nHung Fa Chai, a 489-metre hill in Northeast New Territories of Hong Kong was marked as Ben Nevis on historical colonial maps.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "230497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230497", "title": "Caucasus Mountains", "text": "Caucasus Mountains\n\nThe Caucasus Mountains are a mountain system in West Asia between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea in the Caucasus region.\n\nThe Caucasus Mountains include the Greater Caucasus in the north and Lesser Caucasus in the south. The Greater Caucasus runs west-northwest to east-southeast, from the Caucasian Natural Reserve in the vicinity of Sochi on the northeastern shore of the Black Sea nearly to Baku on the Caspian Sea. The Lesser Caucasus runs parallel to the Greater about south. The Greater and Lesser Caucasus ranges are connected by the Likhi Range, and to the west and east of the Likhi Range lie the Colchis Plain and the Kur-Araz Lowland. The Meskheti Range is a part of the Lesser Caucasus system. In the southeast the Aras River separates the Lesser Caucasus from the Talysh Mountains which straddle the border of southeastern Azerbaijan and Iran. The Lesser Caucasus and the Armenian Highland constitute the Transcaucasian Highland, which at their western end converge with the highland plateau of Eastern Anatolia in the far north east of Turkey. The highest peak in the Caucasus range is Mount Elbrus in the Greater Caucasus, which rises to a height of above sea level. Mountains near Sochi hosted part of the 2014 Winter Olympics.\n\nGeologically, the Caucasus Mountains belong to a system that extends from southeastern Europe into Asia. The Greater Caucasus Mountains are mainly composed of Cretaceous and Jurassic rocks with the Paleozoic and Precambrian rocks in the higher regions. Some volcanic formations are found throughout the range. On the other hand, the Lesser Caucasus Mountains are formed predominantly of the Paleogene rocks with a much smaller portion of the Jurassic and Cretaceous rocks. The evolution of the Caucasus began from the Late Triassic to the Late Jurassic during the Cimmerian orogeny at the active margin of the Tethys Ocean while the uplift of the Greater Caucasus is dated to the Miocene during the Alpine orogeny.\n\nThe Caucasus Mountains formed largely as the result of a tectonic plate collision between the Arabian plate moving northwards with respect to the Eurasian plate. As the Tethys Sea was closed and the Arabian Plate collided with the Iranian Plate and was pushed against it and with the clockwise movement of the Eurasian Plate towards the Iranian Plate and their final collision, the Iranian Plate was pressed against the Eurasian Plate. As this happened, the entire rocks that had been deposited in this basin from the Jurassic to the Miocene were folded to form the Greater Caucasus Mountains. This collision also caused the uplift and the Cenozoic volcanic activity in the Lesser Caucasus Mountains.\n\nThe entire region is regularly subjected to strong earthquakes from this activity. While the Greater Caucasus Mountains have a mainly folded sedimentary structure, the Lesser Caucasus Mountains are largely of volcanic origin.\n\nThe Javakheti Volcanic Plateau in Georgia and the surrounding volcanic ranges which extend well into central Armenia are some of the youngest features of the region. Only recently was the Caucasus a scene for intense volcanic activity: the Armenian highland was flooded by calc-alkaline basalts and andesites in the Pliocene and the highest summits of the Caucasus, the Elbrus, and the Kazbek, formed as Pleistocene-Pliocene volcanoes. The Kazbek is no longer active, but the Elbrus erupted in postglacial times and fumarole activity is registered near its summit. Contemporary seismic activity is a prominent feature of the region, reflecting active faulting and crustal shortening. Clusters of seismicity occur in Dagestan and in northern Armenia. Many devastating earthquakes have been documented in historical times, including the Spitak earthquake in December 1988 which destroyed the Gyumri-Vanadzor region of Armenia.\n\nEurope's highest mountain is Mount Elbrus in the Caucasus Mountains. Elbrus is higher than Mont Blanc, the highest peak in the Alps and western Europe at . The crest of the Caucasus Mountains usually is taken to define the continental divide between Asia and Europe for the region between the Black and Caspian Seas.\n\nThe table below lists some of the highest peaks of the Caucasus. With the exception of Shkhara, the heights are taken from Soviet 1:50,000 mapping. The list includes the ten ultras (mountains of more than 1,500 m prominence) and all mountains over 4,500 m height with 300 m prominence. Mount Ararat (5,137 m) in Turkey is just south of the lesser Caucasus.\n\nThe climate of the Caucasus varies both vertically (according to elevation) and horizontally (by latitude and location). Temperature generally decreases as elevation rises. Average annual temperature in Sukhumi, Abkhazia at sea level is while on the slopes of Mt.Kazbek at an elevation of , average annual temperature falls to. The northern slopes of the Greater Caucasus Mountain Range are 3 °C (5.4 °F) colder than the southern slopes. The highlands of the Lesser Caucasus Mountains in Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Georgia are marked by sharp temperature contrasts between the summer and winter months due to a more continental climate.\n\nPrecipitation increases from east to west in most areas. Elevation plays an important role in the Caucasus and mountains generally receive higher amounts of precipitation than low-lying areas. The northeastern regions (Dagestan) and the southern portions of the Lesser Caucasus Mountains are the driest. The absolute minimum annual precipitation is in the northeastern Caspian Depression. Western parts of the Caucasus Mountains are marked by high amounts of precipitation. The southern slopes of the Greater Caucasus Mountain Range receive higher amounts of precipitation than the northern slopes. Annual precipitation in the Western Caucasus ranges from while in the Eastern and Northern Caucasus (Chechnya, Ingushetia, Kabardino-Balkaria, Ossetia, Kakheti, Kartli, etc.) precipitation ranges from . The absolute maximum annual precipitation is around the Mt. Mtirala area which lies on the Meskheti Range in Ajaria. The precipitation of the Lesser Caucasus Mountain Range (Southern Georgia, Armenia, western Azerbaijan), not including the Meskheti Range, varies from 300- annually.\n\nThe Caucasus Mountains are known for the high amount of snowfall, although many regions which are not located along the windward slopes do not receive nearly as much snow. This is especially true for the Lesser Caucasus Mountains which are somewhat isolated from the moist influences coming in from the Black Sea and receive considerably less precipitation (in the form of snow) than the Greater Caucasus Mountains. The average winter snow cover of the Lesser Caucasus Mountains ranges from . The Greater Caucasus Mountains (especially the southwestern slopes) are marked by heavy snowfall. Avalanches are common from November to April.\n\nSnow cover in several regions (Svaneti and northern Abkhazia) may reach . The Mt. Achishkho region, which is the snowiest place in the Caucasus, often records snow depths of .\n\nThe Caucasus Mountains have a varied landscape which mainly changes according to elevation and distance from large bodies of water. The region contains biomes ranging from subtropical lowland marshes and forests to glaciers (Western and Central Caucasus), and highland semideserts, steppes, and alpine meadows in the south (mainly in Armenia and Azerbaijan).\n\nThe northern slopes of the Greater Caucasus Mountains are covered by oak, hornbeam, maple, and ash forests at lower elevations while birch and pine forests take over at higher elevations. Some of the lowest areas of the region are covered by steppes and grasslands. The slopes of the Northwestern Greater Caucasus (Kabardino-Balkaria, Cherkessia, etc.) also contain spruce and fir forests. The alpine zone replaces the forest at around above sea level. The permafrost/glacier line generally starts around . The southeastern slopes of the Greater Caucasus Mountains are covered by beech, oak, maple, hornbeam, and ash forests. Beech forests tend to dominate in higher locations. The southwestern slopes of the Greater Caucasus are covered by Colchian forests (oak, buxus, beech, chestnut, hornbeam, elm) at lower elevations with coniferous and mixed forests (spruce, fir and beech) taking over at higher elevations. The alpine zone on the southern slopes may extend up to above sea level while the glacier/snow line starts at .\n\nThe northern and western slopes of the Lesser Caucasus Mountains are characterized both by Colchian and other deciduous forests at lower elevations while mixed and coniferous forests (mainly spruce and fir) dominate at higher elevations. Beech forests are also common at higher elevations. The southern slopes of the Lesser Caucasus Mountains are largely covered by grasslands and steppes up to an elevation of . The highest areas of the region contain alpine grasslands as well. Volcanic and other rock formations are common throughout the region. The volcanic zone extends over a large area from southern Georgia into Armenia and southwestern Azerbaijan. Some of the prominent peaks of the region include Mt. Aragats, Didi Abuli, Samsari, and others. The area is characterized by volcanic plateaus, lava flows, volcanic lakes, volcanic cones and other features. The Lesser Caucasus Mountains lack the type of glaciers and glacial features that are common on the Greater Caucasus Mountain Range.\n\nCrossing the Caucasus Mountain range was an important section of the northern arm of the Silk Route. There was one pass on the southeast end in Derbent (known as the Caspian Gates or Gates of Alexander), and multiple passes throughout the range: Jvari Pass at 2379 m and above the Darial Gorge on the Georgian Military Road, Mamison Pass on the Ossetian Military Road at 2911 m, and Roki Tunnel at 2310 m. See Russian conquest of the Caucasus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12639", "title": "Galilee", "text": "Galilee\n\nGalilee (, transliteration \"HaGalil\"); (, translit. \"al-Jalīl\") is a region in northern Israel. The term Galilee traditionally refers to the mountainous part, divided into Upper Galilee ( \"Galil Elyon\") and Lower Galilee ( \"Galil Tahton\").\n\nIn the modern common usage, Galilee refers to all of the area that is beyond Mount Carmel to the northeast, extending from Dan to the north, at the base of Mount Hermon, along Mount Lebanon to the ridges of Mount Carmel and Mount Gilboa north of Jenin to the south, and from the Jordan Rift Valley to the east across the plains of the Jezreel Valley and Acre to the shores of the Mediterranean Sea and the coastal plain in the west, including Beth Shean's valley, Sea of Galilee's valley, and Hula Valley, although it usually does not include Haifa's immediate northern suburbs.\n\nBy this definition it overlaps with much of the administrative Northern District of the country (which also includes the Golan Heights and part of Menashe Heights but not Qiryat Tiv'on). Western Galilee ( \"Galil Ma'aravi\") is a common term referring to the western part of the Upper Galilee and its shore, and usually also the northwestern part of the Lower Galilee, mostly overlapping with Acre sub district. Galilee Panhandle is a common term referring to the \"panhandle\" in the east that extends to the north, where Lebanon is to the west, and includes Hula Valley and Ramot Naftali mountains of the Upper Galilee. Historically, the part of Southern Lebanon south of the east-west section of the Litani River also belonged to the region of Galilee, but the present article mainly deals with the Israeli part of the region.\n\nThe region's Israelite name is from the Hebrew root \"galil\", an ultimately unique word for \"district\", and usually \"cylinder\". The Hebrew form used in Isaiah 8:23 (or 9:1 in different Biblical versions) is in the construct state, \"g'lil hagoyim\", meaning \"Galilee of the Nations\", i.e. the part of Galilee inhabited by Gentiles at the time that the book was written.\n\nThe region in turn gave rise to the English name for the \"Sea of Galilee\" referred to as such in many languages including ancient Arabic. In the Hebrew language, the lake is referred to as Kinneret (Numbers 34:11, etc.), from Hebrew \"kinnor\", \"harp\", describing its shape, Lake of Gennesaret (Luke 5:1, etc.), from Ginosar (Hebrew) \"ge\", \"valley\", and either \"netser\", \"branch\", or \"natsor\", \"to guard\", \"to watch\" (the name which may have been a reference to Nazareth town, alternatively renamed the Sea of Tiberias (John 6:1, etc.), from the town of Tiberias at its southwestern end, named after the Greek Tiberius following the first-century CE Roman Emperor's Greek derived name. These are the three names used in originally internal Jewish-authored literature rather than the \"Sea of Galilee\". However, Jews did use \"the Galilee\" to refer to the whole region (Aramaic הגלילי), including its lake.\n\nMost of Galilee consists of rocky terrain, at heights of between 500 and 700 m. Several high mountains are in the region, including Mount Tabor and Mount Meron, which have relatively low temperatures and high rainfall. As a result of this climate, flora and fauna thrive in the region, while many birds annually migrate from colder climates to Africa and back through the Hula–Jordan corridor. The streams and waterfalls, the latter mainly in Upper Galilee, along with vast fields of greenery and colourful wildflowers, as well as numerous towns of biblical importance, make the region a popular tourist destination.\n\nDue to its high rainfall –, mild temperatures and high mountains (Mount Meron's elevation is 1,000–1,208 m), the upper Galilee region contains some distinctive flora and fauna: prickly juniper (\"Juniperus oxycedrus\"), Lebanese cedar (\"Cedrus libani\"), which grows in a small grove on Mount Meron, cyclamens, paeonias, and \"Rhododendron ponticum\" which sometimes appears on Meron.\n\nAccording to the Bible, Galilee was named by the Israelites and was the tribal region of Naphthali and Dan, at times overlapping the Tribe of Asher's land. However, Dan was dispersed among the whole people rather than isolated to the lands of Dan, as the Tribe of Dan was the hereditary local law enforcement and judiciary for the whole nation. Normally, Galilee is just referred to as Naphthali.\n\nChapter 9 of 1 Kings states that Solomon rewarded his Phoenician ally, King Hiram I of Sidon, with twenty cities in the land of Galilee, which would then have been either settled by foreigners during and after the reign of Hiram, or by those who had been forcibly deported there by later conquerors such as the Assyrians. Hiram, to reciprocate previous gifts given to David, accepted the upland plain among the mountains of Naphtali and renamed it \"the land of Cabul\" for a time.\n\nGalilee in the first century was dotted with small towns and villages. The Jewish historian Josephus claims that there were 204 small towns in Galilee, but modern scholars believe this estimate to be an exaggeration. Many of these towns were centered around the Sea of Galilee, which contained many edible fish and which was surrounded by fertile land. Salted, dried, and pickled fish were an important export good. In 4 BCE, a rebel named Judah plundered Galilee's largest city, Sepphoris. In response, the Syrian governor Publius Quinctilius Varus sacked Sepphoris and sold the population into slavery.\n\nAfter the death of Herod the Great that same year, the Roman emperor Augustus appointed his son Herod Antipas as tetrarch of Galilee, which remained a Roman client state. Antipas paid tribute to the Roman Empire in exchange for Roman protection. The Romans did not station troops in Galilee, but threatened to retaliate against anyone who attacked it. As long as he continued to pay tribute, Antipas was permitted to govern however he wished and was permitted to mint his own coinage. Antipas was relatively observant of Jewish laws and customs. Although his palace was decorated with animal carvings, which many Jews regarded as a transgression against the law prohibiting idols, his coins bore only agricultural designs, which his subjects deemed acceptable.\n\nIn general, Antipas was a capable ruler; Josephus does not record any instance of him using force to put down an uprising and he had a long, prosperous reign. However, many Jews probably resented him as not sufficiently devout. Antipas rebuilt the city of Sepphoris and, in either 18 CE or 19 CE, he founded the new city of Tiberias. These two cities became Galilee's largest cultural centers. They were the main centers of Greco-Roman influence, but were still predominantly Jewish. A massive gap existed between the rich and poor, but lack of uprisings suggest that taxes were not exorbitantly high and that most Galileans did not feel their livelihoods were being threatened.\n\nThe archaeological discoveries of synagogues from the Hellenistic and Roman period in the Galilee show strong Phoenician influences, and a high level of tolerance for other cultures relative to other Jewish religious centers. Late in his reign, Antipas married his half-niece Herodias, who was already married to one of her other uncles. His wife, whom he divorced, fled to her father Aretas, an Arab king, who invaded Galilee and defeated Antipas's troops before withdrawing. Both Josephus and the Gospel of Mark record that the itinerate preacher John the Baptist criticized Antipas over his marriage and Antipas consequently had him imprisoned and then beheaded.\n\nIn around 39 CE, at the urging of Herodias, Antipas went to Rome to request that he be elevated from the status of tetrarch to the status of king. The Romans found him guilty of storing arms, so he was removed from power and exiled, ending his forty-three-year reign. During the Great Revolt (66–73 CE), a Jewish mob destroyed Herod Antipas's palace. According to medieval Hebrew legend, Simeon bar Yochai, one of the most famed of all the Tannaim, wrote the Zohar while living in Galilee. Eastern Galilee retained a Jewish majority until at least the seventh century.\n\nAfter the Arab caliphate took control of the region in 638, it became part of Jund al-Urdunn (District of Jordan). Its major towns were Tiberias (which was capital of the district—Qadas), Baysan, Acre, Saffuriya, and Kabul.\n\nThe Shia Fatimids conquered the region in the 10th century; a breakaway sect, venerating the Fatimid caliph al-Hakim, formed the Druze religion, centered in Mount Lebanon and partially Galilee. During the Crusades, Galilee was organized into the Principality of Galilee, one of the most important Crusader seigneuries.\n\nDuring Early Ottoman era, the Galilee was governed as the Safad Sanjak, initially part of the larger administrative unit of Damascus Eyalet (1549–1660) and later as part of Sidon Eyalet (1660–1864). During the 18th century, the administrative division of Galilee was renamed to Acre Sanjak, and the Eyalet itself became centered in Acre, factually becoming the Acre Eyalet between 1775 and 1841.\n\nThe Jewish population of Galilee increased significantly following their expulsion from Spain and welcome from the Ottoman Empire. The community for a time made Safed an international center of cloth weaving and manufacturing, as well as a key site for Jewish learning. Today it remains one of Judaism's four holy cities and a center for kabbalah.\n\nIn the mid-17th century Galilee and Mount Lebanon became the scene of the Druze power struggle, which came in parallel with much destruction in the region and decline of major cities.\n\nIn the mid-18th century, Galilee was caught up in a struggle between the Arab leader Zahir al-Umar and the Ottoman authorities who were centred in Damascus. Zahir ruled Galilee for 25 years until Ottoman loyalist Jezzar Pasha conquered the region in 1775.\n\nIn 1831, the Galilee, a part of Ottoman Syria, switched hands from Ottomans to Ibrahim Pasha of Egypt until 1840. During this period, aggressive social and politic policies were introduced, which led to a violent 1834 Arab revolt. In the process of this revolt the Jewish community of Safed was greatly reduced, in the event of Safed Plunder by the rebels. The Arab rebels were subsequently defeated by the Egyptian troops, though in 1838, the Druze of Galilee led another uprising. In 1834 and 1837, major earthquakes leveled most of the towns, resulting in great loss of life.\n\nFollowing the 1864 Tanszimat reforms in the Ottoman Empire, the Galilee remained within Acre Sanjak, but was transferred from Sidon Eyalet to the newly formed Syria Vilayet and shortly, from 1888, became administered from Beirut Vilayet.\n\nIn 1866, Galilee's first hospital, the Nazareth Hospital, was founded under the leadership of American-Armenian missionary Dr. Kaloost Vartan, assisted by German missionary John Zeller.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Galilee remained part of Acre Sanjak of Ottoman Syria. It was administered as the southernmost territory of the Beirut Vilayet.\n\nFollowing the defeat of the Ottoman Empire in World War I, and the Armistice of Mudros, it came under British rule, as part of the Occupied Enemy Territory Administration. Shortly after, in 1920, the region was included in the British Mandate territory, officially a part of Mandatory Palestine from 1923.\n\nAfter the 1948 Arab–Israeli war, nearly the whole of Galilee came under Israel's control. A large portion of the population fled or was forced to leave, leaving dozens of entire villages empty; however, a large Israeli Arab community remained based in and near the cities of Nazareth, Acre, Tamra, Sakhnin, and Shefa-'Amr, due to some extent to a successful rapprochement with the Druze. The kibbutzim around the Sea of Galilee were sometimes shelled by the Syrian army's artillery until Israel seized the Golan Heights in the 1967 Six-Day War.\n\nDuring the 1970s and the early 1980s, the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) launched several attacks on towns and villages of the Upper and Western Galilee from Lebanon. This came in parallel to the general distabilization of Southern Lebanon, which became a scene of fierce sectarian fighting which deteriorated into the Lebanese Civil War. On the course of the war, Israel initiated Operation Litani (1979) and Operation Peace For Galilee (1982) with the stated objectives of destroying the PLO infrastructure in Lebanon, protecting the citizens of the Galilee and supporting allied Christian Lebanese militias. Israel took over much of southern Lebanon in support of Christian Lebanese militias until 1985, when it withdrew to a narrow security buffer zone.\n\nFrom 1985 to 2000, Hezbollah, and earlier Amal, continued to fight the South Lebanon Army supported by the Israel Defense Forces, sometimes shelling Upper Galilee communities with Katyusha rockets. In May 2000, Israeli prime minister Ehud Barak unilaterally withdrew IDF troops from southern Lebanon, maintaining a security force on the Israeli side of the international border recognized by the United Nations. The move brought a collapse to the South Lebanon Army and takeover of Southern Lebanon by Hezbollah. However, despite Israeli withdrawal, clashes between Hezbollah and Israel continued along the border, and UN observers condemned both for their attacks.\n\nThe 2006 Israel-Lebanon conflict was characterized by round-the-clock Katyusha rocket attacks (with a greatly extended range) by Hezbollah on the whole of Galilee, with long-range, ground-launched missiles hitting as far south as the Sharon Plain, Jezreel Valley, and Jordan Valley below the Sea of Galilee.\n\nThe largest cities in the region are Acre, Nahariya, Nazareth, Safed, Karmiel, Shaghur, Shefa-'Amr, Afula, and Tiberias. The port city of Haifa serves as a commercial center for the whole region.\n\nBecause of its hilly terrain, most of the people in the Galilee live in small villages connected by relatively few roads. A railroad runs south from Nahariya along the Mediterranean coast, and a fork to the east is due to operate in 2015. The main sources of livelihood throughout the area are agriculture and tourism. Industrial parks are being developed, bringing further employment opportunities to the local population which includes many recent immigrants. The Israeli government is contributing funding to the private initiative, the Galilee Finance Facility, organised by the Milken Institute and Koret Economic Development Fund.\n\nThe Galilee is home to a large Arab population, comprising a Muslim majority and two smaller populations, of Druze and Arab Christians, of comparable sizes. Both Israeli Druze and Christians have their majorities in the Galilee. Other notable minorities are the Bedouin, the Maronites and the Circassians.\n\nThe north-central portion of the Galilee is also known as Central Galilee, stretching from the border with Lebanon to the northern edge of the Jezreel Valley, including the cities of Nazareth and Sakhnin, has an Arab majority of 75% with most of the Jewish population living in hilltop cities like Upper Nazareth. The northern half of the central Lower Galilee, surrounding Karmiel and Sakhnin is known as the \"Heart of the Galilee\". The eastern Galilee is nearly 100% Jewish. This part includes the Finger of the Galilee, the Jordan River Valley, and the shores the Sea of Galilee, and contains two of Judaism's Four Holy Cities. The southern part of the Galilee, including Jezreel Valley, and the Gilboa region are also nearly 100% Jewish, with a few small Arab villages near the West Bank border. About 80% of the population of the Western Galilee is Jewish, all the way up to the Lebanese border. Jews also form a small majority in the mountainous Upper Galilee with a significant minority Arab population (mainly Druze and Christians).\n\nThe Jewish Agency has attempted to increase the Jewish population in this area, but the non-Jewish population also has a high growth rate, , there were 1.2 million residents in Galilee, of which 47% were Jewish.\n\nCurrently, the Galilee is attracting significant internal migration of Haredi Jews, who are increasingly moving to the Galilee and Negev as an answer to rising housing prices in central Israel.\n\nGalilee is a popular destination for domestic and foreign tourists who enjoy its scenic, recreational, and gastronomic offerings. The Galilee attracts many Christian pilgrims, as many of the miracles of Jesus occurred, according to the New Testament, on the shores of the Sea of Galilee—including his walking on water, calming the storm, and feeding five thousand people in Tabgha. In addition, numerous sites of biblical importance are located in the Galilee, such as Megiddo, Jezreel Valley, Mount Tabor, Hazor, Horns of Hattin, and more.\n\nA popular hiking trail known as the \"yam leyam\", or sea-to-sea, starts hikers at the Mediterranean. They then hike through the Galilee mountains, Tabor, Neria, and Meron, until their final destination, the Kinneret (Sea of Galilee).\n\nIn April 2011, Israel unveiled the \"Jesus Trail\", a 40-mile (60-km) hiking trail in the Galilee for Christian pilgrims. The trail includes a network of footpaths, roads, and bicycle paths linking sites central to the lives of Jesus and his disciples, including Tabgha, the traditional site of Jesus' miracle of the loaves and fishes, and the Mount of Beatitudes, where he delivered his Sermon on the Mount. It ends at Capernaum on the shores of the Sea of Galilee, where Jesus espoused his teachings.\nMany kibbutzim and moshav families operate \"Zimmern\" (German: \"rooms\", the local term for a Bed and breakfasts). Numerous festivals are held throughout the year, especially in the autumn and spring holiday seasons. These include the Acre (Acco) Festival of Alternative Theater, the olive harvest festival, music festivals featuring Anglo-American folk, klezmer, Renaissance, and chamber music, and Karmiel Dance Festival.\n\nThe cuisine of the Galilee is very diverse. The meals are lighter than in the central and southern regions. Dairy products are heavily consumed (especially the Safed cheese that originated in the mountains of the Upper Galilee). Herbs like thyme, mint, parsley, basil, and rosemary are very common with everything including dips, meat, fish, stews and cheese.\nIn the eastern part of the Galilee, freshwater fish as much as meat (especially the tilapia that lives in the Sea of Galilee, Jordan river, and other streams in the region), fish filled with thyme and grilled with rosemary to flavor, or stuffed with oregano leaves, then topped with parsley and served with lemon to squash. This technique exists in other parts of the country including the coasts of the Mediterranean and the Red Sea. A specialty of the region is a baked Tilapia flavored with celery, mint and a lot of lemon juice. Baked fish with tahini is also common in Tiberias while the coastal Galileans prefer to replace the tahini with yogurt and add sumac on top.\n\nThe Galilee is famous for its olives, pomegranates, wine and especially its Labneh w'Za'atar which is served with pita bread, meat stews with wine, pomegranates and herbs such as akub, parsley, khalmit, mint, fennel, etc. are common. Galilean kubba is usually flavored with cumin, cinnamon, cardamom, concentrated pomegranate juice, onion, parsley and pine nuts and served as meze with tahini dip.\nKebabs are also made almost in the same way with sumac replacing cardamom and with carob sometimes replacing the pomegranate juice.\nBecause of its climate, beef has become more popular than lamb, although both are still eaten there.\nDates are popular in the tropical climate of the Eastern Galilee.\n\nThe Galilee is often divided into these subregions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53124273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53124273", "title": "Georg Gerland", "text": "Georg Gerland\n\nGeorg Cornelius Karl Gerland (29 January 1833, in Kassel – 16 February 1919, in Strasbourg) was a German anthropologist and geophysicist.\n\nHe studied classical philology, Germanistics and anthropology at the universities of Berlin and Marburg. From 1856 to 1875 he successively worked as a gymnasium teacher in Kassel, Hanau, Magdeburg and Halle an der Saale, and in 1875 was named a professor of ethnology and geography at the University of Strasbourg. In 1900 he became director of the Imperial Central Bureau for Earthquake Research in Strasbourg.\n\nFrom 1887 onward, he edited the \"Beiträge zur Geophysik\", a journal of geophysics eventually known as \"Gerlands Beiträge zur Geophysik\". After the death of Theodor Waitz, he edited and published the last two volumes of Waitz's \"Die Anthropologie der Naturvölker\" (6 volumes, 1859–65). In addition, he was the author of a handful of biographies in the \"Allgemeine Deutsche Biographie\". Other written efforts by Gerland include:\n"}
{"id": "43374374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43374374", "title": "Goth (village)", "text": "Goth (village)\n\nGoth () means \"village\" in Sindhi language. \"Goth\" is a prefix or postfix in village names in Sindh, Pakistan. Goth can also be a small neighborhood in Karachi populated mainly by the Sindhi people.\n\n\nParts of region and settlement names:\n\n"}
{"id": "3238231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3238231", "title": "Greenway (landscape)", "text": "Greenway (landscape)\n\nA greenway is \"a strip of undeveloped land near an urban area, set aside for recreational use or environmental protection\". However, the term can in fact include \"a scenic road\" and though many are in urban areas, there are some rural greenways, as for example the Monadnock-Sunapee Greenway, a hiking trail in southern New Hampshire.\n\nA greenway is a trail (and sometimes a wildlife corridor) found in both urban and rural settings that is frequently created out of a disused railway, canal towpath, utility or similar right of way, or derelict industrial land. Rail trails are one of the most common forms of greenway, and they also resemble linear parks.\n\nIn Southern England, the term also refers to ancient trackways or green lanes, especially those found on chalk downlands, like the Ridgeway.\n\nThe American author Charles Little in his 1990 book, \"Greenways for America,\" defines a greenway as: \n\nThe term \"greenway\" comes from the \"green\" in green belt and the \"way\" in parkway, implying a recreational or pedestrian use rather than a typical street corridor, as well as an emphasis on introducing or maintaining vegetation, in a location where such vegetation is otherwise lacking. Some greenways include community gardens as well as typical park-style landscaping of trees and shrubs. They also tend to have a mostly contiguous pathway. Greenways resemble linear parks, but the latter are only found in an urban and suburban environment.\n\nThough wildlife corridors are also greenways, because they have conservation as their primary purpose, they are not necessarily managed as parks for recreational use, and may not include facilities such as public trails.\n\nTom Turner analyzed greenways in London looking for common patterns among successful examples. He was inspired by the pattern language technique of architect Christopher Alexander. Turner concluded there are seven types, or 'patterns', of greenway which he named: parkway, blueway, paveway, glazeway, skyway, ecoway and cycleway.\n\nThe European Greenways Association defines it as \"communication routes reserved exclusively for non-motorised journeys, developed in an integrated manner which enhances both the environment and quality of life of the surrounding area. These routes should meet satisfactory standards of width, gradient and surface condition to ensure that they are both user-friendly and low-risk for users of all abilities.\" (Lille Declaration, European Greenways Association, 12 September 2000).\n\nCharles Little describes five general types of greenways:\n\nGreenways are vegetated, linear, and multi-purpose. They incorporate a footpath or bikeway within a linear park. In urban design, they are a component of planning for bicycle commuting and walkability.\n\nGreenways are found in rural areas as well as urban. Corridors redeveloped as greenways often travel through both city and country, connecting them together. Even in rural areas greenways serve the purpose of providing residents access to open land managed as parks, as contrasted with land that is vegetated but inappropriate for public use, such as agricultural land. Where the historic rural road network has been enlarged and redesigned to favor highspeed automobile travel, greenways provide an alternative for people who are elderly, young, less mobile or seeking a reflective pace.\n\nGreenways are found almost globally. However, most examples are known to be in Europe and North America.\n\nIn Australia, a foreshoreway is a greenway that provides a public right-of-way along the edge of the sea, open to both walkers and cyclists. Foreshoreways include oceanways, and resemble promenades and boardwalks.\n\nForeshoreways are usually concerned with the idea of sustainable transport and the term is used to avoid the suggestion that the route favours either pedestrians (footpath) or cyclists (bikeway). A foreshoreway is accessible to both pedestrians and cyclists and gives them the opportunity to move unimpeded along the seashore. Dead end paths that offer public access only to the ocean are not part of a foreshoreway.\n\nA foreshoreway corridor often includes a number of traffic routes that provide access along an oceanfront, including:\n\nA major example is The Gold Coast Oceanway along beaches in Gold Coast, Queensland, a shared use pedestrian and cyclist pathway on the Gold Coast, connecting the Point Danger lighthouse on the New South Wales and Queensland border to the Gold Coast Seaway. The network includes of poor, medium and high quality pathways. Others include: The Chicago Lakefront Trail, the Dubai Marina, the East River Greenway, New Plymouth Coastal Walkway, and the Manhattan Waterfront Greenway.\n\nPublic rights of way frequently exist on the foreshore of beaches throughout the world. In legal discussions the foreshore is often referred to as the wet-sand area (see Right of way for a fuller discussion).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16051603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16051603", "title": "Grändalssjön", "text": "Grändalssjön\n\nGrändalssjön (Swedish for \"Lake of Grändalen\") is a small lake in Tyresö Municipality south-east of central Stockholm, Sweden.\n\nGrändalssjön, one of the lakes within the Tyresån Lake System, empties in its eastern end into a southbound bay of lake Albysjön located north of it. Immediately north of Grändalssjön is the Raksta open-air area, and Övre kärret (\"Upper Swamp\"), a swampy lake, is located west of the lake. Two small cottages located nearby, Grändalen and Skansen, are part of Gamla Tyresö.\n\nThe lake is popular for bathing and fishing. Motorboats are not allowed on the lake. It is virtually unaffected by eutrophication and human activities. It consequently has moderate levels of nutrients.\n\nThe stock of crayfishes is undocumented, but fishing using a maximum of ten tools is allowed with a fishing license. Aquatic vegetation is dominated by Fragile Stonewort.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30285866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30285866", "title": "Hans von Mžik", "text": "Hans von Mžik\n\nHans von Mžik (1876 – 1961) was an Austrian orientalist and geographer. Since 1921 he was head of the map collection at the Austrian National Library and co-founder of the series \"\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4839355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4839355", "title": "ISO 3166-2:KI", "text": "ISO 3166-2:KI\n\nISO 3166-2:KI is the entry for Kiribati in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Kiribati, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 3 groups of islands (20 inhabited islands). The groups of islands are geographical subdivisions, as the country has no official administrative subdivisions.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Kiribati. The second part is a letter.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry are listed on ISO's online catalogue, the Online Browsing Platform:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2312628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312628", "title": "Ivory tower", "text": "Ivory tower\n\nThe term ivory tower originates in the Biblical \"Song of Solomon \"(7:4) and was later used as an epithet for Mary. From the 19th century, it has been used to designate an environment of intellectual pursuit disconnected from the practical concerns of everyday life. Practically speaking, it means being disconnected from the reality of the everyday life of average people because one has spent too much of their time in intellectual pursuits. A person coming from an ivory tower has difficulty judging the actions of people and life in general outside of their environment. In American English usage it is also used as shorthand for academia or the university.\n\nIn the Christian tradition, the term \"ivory tower\" is used as a symbol for noble purity. It originates with the Song of Solomon (7:4) (\"Your neck is like an ivory tower\"; in the Hebrew Masoretic text, it is found in 7:5) and was included in the epithets for Mary in the sixteenth century Litany of the Blessed Virgin Mary (\"tower of ivory\", \"turris eburnea\" in Latin), though the title and image was in use long before that, since the 12th century Marian revival at least. It occasionally appears in art, especially in depictions of Mary in the hortus conclusus. Although the term is rarely used in the religious sense in modern times, it is credited with inspiring the modern meaning.\n\nThe first modern usage of \"ivory tower\" in the familiar sense of an unworldly dreamer can be found in a poem of 1837, \"Pensées d'Août, à M. Villemain\", by Charles Augustin Sainte-Beuve, a French literary critic and author, who used the term \"tour d'ivoire\" for the poetical attitude of Alfred de Vigny as contrasted with the more socially engaged Victor Hugo: \"Et Vigny, plus secret, Comme en sa tour d'ivoire, avant midi rentrait\". [And Vigny, the more secretive, like he was in his ivory tower, returning before midday].\n\nHenry James' last novel, \"The Ivory Tower\", was begun in 1914 and left unfinished at his death two years later. Paralleling James' own dismaying experience of the United States after twenty years away, it chronicles the effect on a high-minded returning upper-class American of the vulgar emptiness of the Gilded Age. \"You seem all here so hideously rich,\" says his hero. Thus, there are two meanings mixed together: mockery of an absent-minded savant and admiration of someone who is able to devote his or her entire efforts to a noble cause (hence \"ivory\", a noble but impractical building material). The term has a rather negative flavor today, the implication being that specialists who are so deeply drawn into their fields of study often can't find a lingua franca with laymen outside their \"ivory towers\".\n\nIn Andrew Hodges' biography of the Cambridge Scientist Alan Turing, he discusses Turing's 1936-38 stay at Princeton University and writes that \"[t]he tower of the Graduate College was an exact replica of Magdalen College, and it was popularly called the Ivory Tower, because of that benefactor of Princeton, the Procter who manufactured Ivory soap.\" William Cooper Procter (Princeton class of 1883) was a significant supporter of the construction of the Graduate College, and the main dining hall bears the Procter name. The skylines of Oxford and Cambridge universities, along with many Ivy League universities, are dotted with turrets and spires which are often described as 'Ivory Towers'.\n\nIn Randall Jarrell's essay 'The End of the Line' (1942), Jarrell asserts that if modern poetry is to survive then poets must come down from the \"Ivory Tower\" of elitist composition. Jarrell's main thrust is that the rich poetry of the modernist period was over-dependent upon reference to other literary works. For Jarrell the Ivory Tower led modern poetry into obscurity.\nAn ivory tower may also be an entity of \"reason, rationality and rigid structures [that] colonizes the world of lived experience,\" as explained by Kirsten J. Broadfoot in an article about the possibilities of postcolonial organizational communication. This imagined academic community creates an essence of exclusivity and superiority. Broadfoot explains this as a group that \"functions like an exclusive club whose membership is tightly controlled by what might be called a 'dominant frame.'\" In an academic sense, this leads to an \"overwhelming and disproportionate dominance\" of the United States and the Western world. The ivory tower can be dangerous, some believe, in its inherent privatization of knowledge and intellect. Academics who are seeking \"legitimacy for their narratives from the heart end up echoing the sanitized tone of the Master Narrative.\" This becomes a cyclical process as intellects collectively defend the \"imaginary ivory tower.\"\n\nWriters for Philadelphia's other newspapers sarcastically referred to the former headquarters of the establishment Philadelphia Inquirer, a white art deco tower called the Elverson Building, as the \"Ivory Tower of Truth.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27231950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27231950", "title": "J. Ronald Eastman", "text": "J. Ronald Eastman\n\nDr. J. Ronald Eastman is a Professor of Geography at Clark University and the author and chief developer of IDRISI GIS Software. In 2003, Eastman received the Ronald F. Abler Distinguished Service Honors from the Association of American Geographers. Eastman was awarded the Distinguished Career Award at the 2010 Annual AAG Meeting.\n\n"}
{"id": "6800730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6800730", "title": "List of Steptoe and Son episodes", "text": "List of Steptoe and Son episodes\n\nThis is an episode list of the British sitcom \"Steptoe and Son\". All episodes were originally shown on what is now known as BBC One, although the station was simply called BBC Television until April 1964 when BBC2 began broadcasting (between the third and fourth series). Dates shown are the original broadcast dates. Series 1–4 were produced in black and white, and series 5–8 in colour. However, the series 5 episodes, and all but two of series 6, only survive in black and white.\n\nSeries 1–6 were produced and directed by Duncan Wood, series 7 by John Howard Davies (apart from \"Divided We Stand\" which was directed by David Croft as Davies was ill), the 1973 Christmas Special by Graeme Muir, and series 8 and 1974 Christmas Special by Douglas Argent (with \"The Seven Steptoerai\" being co-directed by Mike Crisp). All episodes were written by Ray Galton and Alan Simpson. Series 7–8 are regularly repeated on Gold.\n\nThe first series where the creator's names came before the actor's name in the opening titles but still saying \"By Alan Simpson and Ray Galton\"\nProduced in colour, however all currently only exist in black and white. Now with the \"By Ray Galton and Alan Simpson\" byline at the beginning.\n\nSecond series produced in colour. With two episodes excepted (indicated), this series now only exists in black and white.\n\nProduced in colour. This is the first series to survive completely in colour.\n\n\"Christmas Night with the Stars\" was screened annually on Christmas night when the top stars of the BBC appeared in short versions, typically five to ten minutes; The programme ran from 1958 to 1972 and \"Steptoe & Son\" appeared twice in 1962 and 1967.\n\nHowever the 1962 Christmas segment no longer exists. Only sequences from the 1967 Christmas segment remain and still exist on the original film in the archives. An audio recording for the 1967 sketch exists.\n\nBetween 1966 and 1976, 52 episodes of \"Steptoe and Son\" were adapted for radio, these were remakes of the TV episodes specifically tailored for a radio audience, (Note:they are not TV soundtrack recordings), Series 1 & 2 were broadcast on the BBC Light Programme in 1966 and 1967. Series 3-6 and a final Christmas Special were broadcast on BBC Radio 2 between 1971 and 1976.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47129858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47129858", "title": "List of defunct airlines of Bulgaria", "text": "List of defunct airlines of Bulgaria\n\nThis is a list of defunct airlines of Bulgaria.\n"}
{"id": "12562977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12562977", "title": "List of diplomatic missions in Malta", "text": "List of diplomatic missions in Malta\n\nThis page lists embassies and consulates posted in Malta. There are currently 24 embassies/high commissions in Malta. Several other countries have non resident embassies.\n\nResident in Rome unless otherwise noted\n\n"}
{"id": "907457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=907457", "title": "List of extreme points of Russia", "text": "List of extreme points of Russia\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points and extreme elevations in Russia.\n\nThe northernmost and easternmost points of Russia coincide with those of Eurasia (both for the mainland and including the islands).\n\nThe extreme points of the Soviet Union were identical, except that the southernmost point of the Soviet Union was Kushka in Turkmenistan, and the extreme elevation was the Communism Peak in Tajikistan, at 7,495 m.\n\nThe remaining extreme points were the same as the extreme points of the Soviet Union.\n\nIncluding islands and exclaves\n\nContiguous mainland only\n\nTowns and cities\n\n\nPermanent settlements\n\n"}
{"id": "55504566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55504566", "title": "List of hospitals in Botswana", "text": "List of hospitals in Botswana\n\nThis is a list of hospitals in Botswana.\n\nThis is an incomplete list of hospitals in Botswana\n\nGaborone\n\nLobatse\n\nFrancistown\n\nMasunga\nGweta\nSelibe Phikwe\n\n\nMahalapye\n\nPalapye\nSerowe\n\nMmadinare\n\nMaun\n\nGood Hope, Botswana\n\n\nRamotswa\n\n\nMochudi\n\nMolepolole\n\nKanye\n"}
{"id": "18448430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18448430", "title": "List of islands of the Falkland Islands", "text": "List of islands of the Falkland Islands\n\nThe following is a list of islands that form the Falkland Islands.\n\nNone of the Jason Islands are permanently inhabited.\n\nThis is a short list of islands, which are known to be named after someone. Until at least 1781, the Falklands as a whole were known as the Sebald or Sebaldine Island after Sebald de Weert, who sighted them and tried to make landfall on the Jason Islands in January 1600. \n\n\nA list of the derivations of Spanish names, where they differ substantially from the English versions.\n\n"}
{"id": "36161136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36161136", "title": "List of museums in Tasmania", "text": "List of museums in Tasmania\n\nThis list of museums in Tasmania, Australia, contains museums which are defined for this context as institutions (including nonprofit organizations, government entities and private businesses) that collect and care for objects of cultural, artistic, scientific or historical interest and make their collections or related exhibits available for public viewing. Also included are non-profit art galleries and university art galleries. \nTo use the sortable table, click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35112190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35112190", "title": "List of museums in Vienna", "text": "List of museums in Vienna\n\nThis list of museums in Vienna, Austria contains museums which are defined for this context as institutions (including nonprofit organizations, government entities, and private businesses) that collect and care for objects of cultural, artistic, scientific, or historical interest and make their collections or related exhibits available for public viewing. Also included are non-profit art galleries and university art galleries.\n\nTo use the sortable table, click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35503685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35503685", "title": "List of science and technology articles by continent", "text": "List of science and technology articles by continent\n\nThis is a list of Wikipedia science and technology articles by continent.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1605267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1605267", "title": "Mu Ko Ang Thong National Park", "text": "Mu Ko Ang Thong National Park\n\nMu Ko Ang Thong is a marine national park in the Gulf of Thailand in Surat Thani Province. It covers 42 islands in a total area of 102 km, of which about 50 km are land and the rest is water. The park was established on 12 November 1980. The northern tip of Ko Phaluai is also part of the marine park. There is a ranger station, bungalows, a shop, and a restaurant at Ao Phi Beach on Ko Wua Talap.\n\nThe name \"Ang Thong\" (Thai: อ่างทอง) means 'bowl of gold'. \"Mu Ko\" (หมู่เกาะ) simply means 'group of islands'.\n\nSince 2002 the park has been registered as Ramsar site number 1184.\n\n"}
{"id": "38867688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38867688", "title": "NTv2", "text": "NTv2\n\nThe NTv2 (National Transformation version 2) is a standard binary grid shift (.GSB) file format. It can transform coordinates between the NAD27 and NAD83 geodetic reference systems for example. The transformation is bidimensional (2D), or horizontal, and does not require heights.\n\nThe National Transformation format has been developed by Natural Resources Canada's Geodetic Survey Division for conversions between NAD27 and NAD83 but it has been adapted to several other countries, such as Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, New Zealand, Portugal, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, Venezuela and the United Kingdom. \n"}
{"id": "42460627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42460627", "title": "Nahiye (Ottoman)", "text": "Nahiye (Ottoman)\n\nThe nahiye or nahia or nahiyah was an administrative territorial entity of the Ottoman Empire, smaller than a kaza. The head was a \"mütesellim\" (governor) who was appointed by the Pasha.\n\nThe kaza was a subdivision of a sanjak and corresponded roughly to a city with its surrounding villages. Kazas, in turn, were divided into nahiyes (governed by \"müdürs\") and villages (\"karye\", governed by \"muhtars\"). Revisions of 1871 to the administrative law established the nahiye (still governed a \"müdür\") as an intermediate level between the kaza and the village.\n\nIt was adopted by the Principality of Serbia (1817–1833) and Principality of Montenegro (1852–1910), as \"nahija\" ().\n"}
{"id": "2391762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2391762", "title": "Naucrary", "text": "Naucrary\n\nThe Naucrary () was a subdivision of the people of Attica, among the most ancient in the Athenian state.\n\nThe word is derived either from \"naus\" (ναῦς \"a ship\") and describes the duty imposed upon each naucrary, of providing one ship and two (or, more probably, ten) horsemen; or from \"naio\" (ναίω \"I dwell\"), in which case it has to do with a householder census. The former is generally accepted in view of the fact that the naucraries were certainly the units on which the Athenian fleet was based.\n\nThe view once held (on the strength of a fragment of Aristotle, quoted carelessly by Photius) that the naucrary was invented by Solon may now be regarded as obsolete (see the \"Aristotelian Constitution\", viii. 3). Each of the four Ionian tribes was divided into three \"trittyes\" (\"thirds\"), each of which was subdivided into four naucraries; there were thus 48 naucraries.\n\nThe earliest mention of the term is in Herodotus (v. 71), where it is stated that the Cylonian conspiracy was put down by the \"Prytaneis (chief men) of the Naucraries.\" Although it is generally recognized that in this passage we can trace an attempt to shift the responsibility for the murder of the suppliants from the archon Megacles, it is highly improbable that the Prytaneis of the Naucraries did not play a part in the tragedy.\n\nThucydides is probably right, as against Herodotus, in asserting that the nine archons formed the Athenian executive at this period. It may be conjectured, however, that the military forces of Athens were organized on the basis of the naucraries, and that it was the duty of the presidents of these districts to raise the local levies. It is certainly remarkable that the Aristotelian Constitution of Athens does not connect the naucrary with the fleet or the army; from chapter viii. it would appear that its importance was chiefly in connection with finance.\n\nThe naucrary consisted of a number of villages, and was, therefore, a local unit very much in the power of the naucraros, who was selected by reason of wealth. The naucraros superintended the construction of, and afterwards captained, the ship, and also assessed and administered the taxes in his own area.\n\nIn the reforms of Cleisthenes, the naucraries gave place to the demes as the political unit. In accordance with the new decimal system, their number was increased to fifty. Whether they continued (and if so, how long) to supply one ship and two (or ten) horsemen each is not certainly known. Cheidemus in Photius asserts that they did, and his statement is to a certain extent corroborated by Herodotus (vi. 89) who records that, in the Aeginetan War before the Persian Invasion, the Athenian fleet numbered only fifty sail.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21836", "title": "North Pole", "text": "North Pole\n\nThe North Pole, also known as the Geographic North Pole or Terrestrial North Pole, is (subject to the caveats explained below) defined as the point in the Northern Hemisphere where the Earth's axis of rotation meets its surface.\n\nThe North Pole is the northernmost point on the Earth, lying diametrically opposite the South Pole. It defines geodetic latitude 90° North, as well as the direction of true north. At the North Pole all directions point south; all lines of longitude converge there, so its longitude can be defined as any degree value. Along tight latitude circles, counterclockwise is east and clockwise is west. The North Pole is at the center of the Northern Hemisphere.\n\nWhile the South Pole lies on a continental land mass, the North Pole is located in the middle of the Arctic Ocean amid waters that are almost permanently covered with constantly shifting sea ice. This makes it impractical to construct a permanent station at the North Pole (unlike the South Pole). However, the Soviet Union, and later Russia, constructed a number of manned drifting stations on a generally annual basis since 1937, some of which have passed over or very close to the Pole. Since 2002, the Russians have also annually established a base, Barneo, close to the Pole. This operates for a few weeks during early spring. Studies in the 2000s predicted that the North Pole may become seasonally ice-free because of Arctic ice shrinkage, with timescales varying from 2016 to the late 21st century or later.\n\nThe sea depth at the North Pole has been measured at by the Russian Mir submersible in 2007 and at 4,087 m (13,410 ft) by USS \"Nautilus\" in 1958. The nearest land is usually said to be Kaffeklubben Island, off the northern coast of Greenland about away, though some perhaps semi-permanent gravel banks lie slightly closer. The nearest permanently inhabited place is Alert in the Qikiqtaaluk Region, Nunavut, Canada, which is located from the Pole.\n\nThe Earth's axis of rotation – and hence the position of the North Pole – was commonly believed to be fixed (relative to the surface of the Earth) until, in the 18th century, the mathematician Leonhard Euler predicted that the axis might \"wobble\" slightly. Around the beginning of the 20th century astronomers noticed a small apparent \"variation of latitude,\" as determined for a fixed point on Earth from the observation of stars. Part of this variation could be attributed to a wandering of the Pole across the Earth's surface, by a range of a few metres. The wandering has several periodic components and an irregular component. The component with a period of about 435 days is identified with the eight-month wandering predicted by Euler and is now called the Chandler wobble after its discoverer. The exact point of intersection of the Earth's axis and the Earth's surface, at any given moment, is called the \"instantaneous pole\", but because of the \"wobble\" this cannot be used as a definition of a fixed North Pole (or South Pole) when metre-scale precision is required.\n\nIt is desirable to tie the system of Earth coordinates (latitude, longitude, and elevations or orography) to fixed landforms. Of course, given plate tectonics and isostasy, there is no system in which all geographic features are fixed. Yet the International Earth Rotation and Reference Systems Service and the International Astronomical Union have defined a framework called the International Terrestrial Reference System.\n\nAs early as the 16th century, many prominent people correctly believed that the North Pole was in a sea, which in the 19th century was called the Polynya or Open Polar Sea. It was therefore hoped that passage could be found through ice floes at favorable times of the year. Several expeditions set out to find the way, generally with whaling ships, already commonly used in the cold northern latitudes.\n\nOne of the earliest expeditions to set out with the explicit intention of reaching the North Pole was that of British naval officer William Edward Parry, who in 1827 reached latitude 82°45′ North. In 1871 the Polaris expedition, a US attempt on the Pole led by Charles Francis Hall, ended in disaster. Another British Royal Navy attempt on the pole, part of the British Arctic Expedition, by Commander Albert H. Markham reached a then-record 83°20'26\" North in May 1876 before turning back. An 1879–1881 expedition commanded by US naval officer George W. DeLong ended tragically when their ship, the USS \"Jeanette\", was crushed by ice. Over half the crew, including DeLong, were lost.\nIn April 1895 the Norwegian explorers Fridtjof Nansen and Hjalmar Johansen struck out for the Pole on skis after leaving Nansen's icebound ship \"Fram\". The pair reached latitude 86°14′ North before they abandoned the attempt and turned southwards, eventually reaching Franz Josef Land.\n\nIn 1897 Swedish engineer Salomon August Andrée and two companions tried to reach the North Pole in the hydrogen balloon \"Örnen\" (\"Eagle\"), but came down north of Kvitøya, the northeasternmost part of the Svalbard archipelago. They trekked to Kvitøya but died there three months later. In 1930 the remains of this expedition were found by the Norwegian Bratvaag Expedition.\n\nThe Italian explorer Luigi Amedeo, Duke of the Abruzzi and Captain Umberto Cagni of the Italian Royal Navy (Regia Marina) sailed the converted whaler \"Stella Polare\" (\"Pole Star\") from Norway in 1899. On 11 March 1900 Cagni led a party over the ice and reached latitude 86° 34’ on 25 April, setting a new record by beating Nansen's result of 1895 by . Cagni barely managed to return to the camp, remaining there until 23 June. On 16 August the \"Stella Polare\" left Rudolf Island heading south and the expedition returned to Norway.\n\nThe US explorer Frederick Cook claimed to have reached the North Pole on 21 April 1908 with two Inuit men, Ahwelah and Etukishook, but he was unable to produce convincing proof and his claim is not widely accepted.\n\nThe conquest of the North Pole was for many years credited to US Navy engineer Robert Peary, who claimed to have reached the Pole on 6 April 1909, accompanied by Matthew Henson and four Inuit men, Ootah, Seeglo, Egingwah, and Ooqueah. However, Peary's claim remains highly disputed and controversial. Those who accompanied Peary on the final stage of the journey were not trained in [Western] navigation, and thus could not independently confirm his navigational work, which some claim to have been particularly sloppy as he approached the Pole.\n\nThe distances and speeds that Peary claimed to have achieved once the last support party turned back seem incredible to many people, almost three times that which he had accomplished up to that point. Peary's account of a journey to the Pole and back while traveling along the direct line – the only strategy that is consistent with the time constraints that he was facing – is contradicted by Henson's account of tortuous detours to avoid pressure ridges and open leads.\n\nThe British explorer Wally Herbert, initially a supporter of Peary, researched Peary's records in 1989 and found that there were significant discrepancies in the explorer's navigational records. He concluded that Peary had not reached the Pole. Support for Peary came again in 2005, however, when British explorer Tom Avery and four companions recreated the outward portion of Peary's journey with replica wooden sleds and Canadian Eskimo Dog teams, reaching the North Pole in 36 days, 22 hours – nearly five hours faster than Peary. However, Avery's fastest 5-day march was 90 nautical miles, significantly short of the 135 claimed by Peary. Avery writes on his web site that \"The admiration and respect which I hold for Robert Peary, Matthew Henson and the four Inuit men who ventured North in 1909, has grown enormously since we set out from Cape Columbia. Having now seen for myself how he travelled across the pack ice, I am more convinced than ever that Peary did indeed discover the North Pole.\"\nAnother rejection of Peary's claim arrived in 2009, when E. Myles Standish of the California Institute of Technology, an experienced referee of scientific claims, reported numerous alleged lacunae and inconsistencies.\n\nThe first claimed flight over the Pole was made on 9 May 1926 by US naval officer Richard E. Byrd and pilot Floyd Bennett in a Fokker tri-motor aircraft. Although verified at the time by a committee of the National Geographic Society, this claim has since been undermined by the 1996 revelation that Byrd's long-hidden diary's solar sextant data (which the NGS never checked) consistently contradict his June 1926 report's parallel data by over . The secret report's alleged en-route solar sextant data were inadvertently so impossibly overprecise that he excised all these alleged raw solar observations out of the version of the report finally sent to geographical societies five months later (while the original version was hidden for 70 years), a realization first published in 2000 by the University of Cambridge after scrupulous refereeing.\n\nAccording to Standish, \"Anyone who is acquainted with the facts and has any amount of logical reasoning can not avoid the conclusion that neither Cook, nor Peary, nor Byrd reached the North Pole; and they all knew it.\"\n\nThe first consistent, verified, and scientifically convincing attainment of the Pole was on 12 May 1926, by Norwegian explorer Roald Amundsen and his US sponsor Lincoln Ellsworth from the airship \"Norge\". \"Norge\", though Norwegian-owned, was designed and piloted by the Italian Umberto Nobile. The flight started from Svalbard in Norway, and crossed the Arctic Ocean to Alaska. Nobile, with several scientists and crew from the \"Norge\", overflew the Pole a second time on 24 May 1928, in the airship \"Italia\". The \"Italia\" crashed on its return from the Pole, with the loss of half the crew.\n\nIn May 1937 the world's first North Pole ice station, North Pole-1, was established by Soviet scientists by air 20 kilometres (13 mi) from the North Pole. The expedition members: oceanographer Pyotr Shirshov, meteorologist Yevgeny Fyodorov, radio operator Ernst Krenkel, and the leader Ivan Papanin conducted scientific research at the station for the next nine months. By 19 February 1938, when the group was picked up by the ice breakers \"Taimyr\" and \"Murman\", their station had drifted 2850 km to the eastern coast of Greenland.\n\nIn May 1945 an RAF Lancaster of the \"Aries\" expedition became the first Commonwealth aircraft to overfly the North Geographic and North Magnetic Poles. The plane was piloted by David Cecil McKinley of the Royal Air Force. It carried an 11-man crew, with Kenneth C. Maclure of the Royal Canadian Air Force in charge of all scientific observations. In 2006, Maclure was honoured with a spot in Canada's Aviation Hall of Fame.\n\nDiscounting Peary's disputed claim, the first men to set foot at the North Pole were a Soviet party including geophysicists Mikhail Ostrekin and Pavel Senko, oceanographers Mikhail Somov and Pavel Gordienko, and other scientists and flight crew (24 people in total) of Aleksandr Kuznetsov's \"Sever-2\" expedition (March–May 1948). It was organized by the Chief Directorate of the Northern Sea Route. The party flew on three planes (pilots Ivan Cherevichnyy, Vitaly Maslennikov and Ilya Kotov) from Kotelny Island to the North Pole and landed there at 4:44pm (Moscow Time, ) on 23 April 1948. They established a temporary camp and for the next two days conducted scientific observations. On 26 April the expedition flew back to the continent.\n\nNext year, on 9 May 1949 two other Soviet scientists (Vitali Volovich and Andrei Medvedev) became the first people to parachute onto the North Pole. They jumped from a Douglas C-47 Skytrain, registered CCCP H-369.\n\nOn 3 May 1952 U.S. Air Force Lieutenant Colonel Joseph O. Fletcher and Lieutenant William Pershing Benedict, along with scientist Albert P. Crary, landed a modified Douglas C-47 Skytrain at the North Pole. Some Western sources considered this to be the first landing at the Pole until the Soviet landings became widely known.\nThe United States Navy submarine \"USS Nautilus\" (SSN-571) crossed the North Pole on 3 August 1958. On 17 March 1959 \"USS Skate\" (SSN-578) surfaced at the Pole, breaking through the ice above it, becoming the first naval vessel to do so.\n\nSetting aside Peary's claim, the first confirmed surface conquest of the North Pole was that of Ralph Plaisted, Walt Pederson, Gerry Pitzl and Jean Luc Bombardier, who traveled over the ice by snowmobile and arrived on 19 April 1968. The United States Air Force independently confirmed their position.\n\nOn 6 April 1969 Wally Herbert and companions Allan Gill, Roy Koerner and Kenneth Hedges of the British Trans-Arctic Expedition became the first men to reach the North Pole on foot (albeit with the aid of dog teams and airdrops). They continued on to complete the first surface crossing of the Arctic Ocean – and by its longest axis, Utqiagvik, Alaska to Svalbard – a feat that has never been repeated. Because of suggestions (later proven false) of Plaisted's use of air transport, some sources classify Herbert's expedition as the first confirmed to reach the North Pole over the ice surface by any means. In the 1980s Plaisted's pilots Weldy Phipps and Ken Lee signed affidavits asserting that no such airlift was provided. It is also said that Herbert was the first person to reach the pole of inaccessibility.\nOn 17 August 1977 the Soviet nuclear-powered icebreaker \"Arktika\" completed the first surface vessel journey to the North Pole.\n\nIn 1982 Ranulph Fiennes and Charles R. Burton became the first people to cross the Arctic Ocean in a single season. They departed from Cape Crozier, Ellesmere Island, on 17 February 1982 and arrived at the geographic North Pole on 10 April 1982. They travelled on foot and snowmobile. From the Pole, they travelled towards Svalbard but, due to the unstable nature of the ice, ended their crossing at the ice edge after drifting south on an ice floe for 99 days. They were eventually able to walk to their expedition ship \"MV Benjamin Bowring\" and boarded it on 4 August 1982 at position 80:31N 00:59W. As a result of this journey, which formed a section of the three-year Transglobe Expedition 1979–1982, Fiennes and Burton became the first people to complete a circumnavigation of the world via both North and South Poles, by surface travel alone. This achievement remains unchallenged to this day.\n\nIn 1985 Sir Edmund Hillary (the first man to stand on the summit of Mount Everest) and Neil Armstrong (the first man to stand on the moon) landed at the North Pole in a small twin-engined ski plane. Hillary thus became the first man to stand at both poles and on the summit of Everest.\n\nIn 1986 Will Steger, with seven teammates, became the first to be confirmed as reaching the Pole by dogsled and without resupply.\n\nUSS \"Gurnard\" (SSN-662) operated in the Arctic Ocean under the polar ice cap from September to November 1984 in company with one of her sister ships, the attack submarine USS \"Pintado\" (SSN-672). On 12 November 1984 \"Gurnard\" and \"Pintado\" became the third pair of submarines to surface together at the North Pole. In March 1990, \"Gurnard\" deployed to the Arctic region during exercise Ice Ex '90 and completed only the fourth winter submerged transit of the Bering and Seas. \"Gurnard\" surfaced at the North Pole on April 18, in the company of the USS \"Seahorse\" (SSN-669).\n\nOn 6 May 1986 USS \"Archerfish\" (SSN 678), USS \"Ray\" (SSN 653) and USS \"Hawkbill\" (SSN-666) surfaced at the North Pole, the first tri-submarine surfacing at the North Pole.\n\nOn 21 April 1987 Shinji Kazama of Japan became the first person to reach the North Pole on a motorcycle.\n\nOn 18 May 1987 USS \"Billfish\" (SSN 676), USS \"Sea Devil\" (SSN 664) and HMS \"Superb\" (S 109) surfaced at the North Pole, the first international surfacing at the North Pole.\n\nIn 1988 a 13-man strong team (9 Soviets, 4 Canadians) skied across the arctic from Siberia to northern Canada. One of the Canadians, Richard Weber became the first person to reach the Pole from both sides of the Arctic Ocean.\n\nOn 4 May 1990 Børge Ousland and Erling Kagge became the first explorers ever to reach the North Pole unsupported, after a 58-day ski trek from Ellesmere Island in Canada, a distance of 800 km.\n\nOn 7 September 1991 the German research vessel \"Polarstern\" and the Swedish icebreaker \"Oden\" reached the North Pole as the first conventional powered vessels. Both scientific parties and crew took oceanographic and geological samples and had a common tug of war and a football game on an ice floe. Polarstern again reached the pole exactly 10 years later with the \"Healy\".\n\nIn 1998, 1999, and 2000 Lada Niva Marshs (special very large wheeled versions made by BRONTO, Lada/Vaz's experimental product division) were driven to the North Pole. The 1998 expedition was dropped by parachute and completed the track to the North Pole. The 2000 expedition departed from a Russian research base around 114 km from the Pole and claimed an average speed of 20–15 km/h in an average temperature of −30 °C.\n\nCommercial airliner flights on the Polar routes may pass within viewing distance of the North Pole. For example, the flight from Chicago to Beijing may come close as latitude 89° N, though because of prevailing winds return journeys go over the Bering Strait. In recent years journeys to the North Pole by air (landing by helicopter or on a runway prepared on the ice) or by icebreaker have become relatively routine, and are even available to small groups of tourists through adventure holiday companies. Parachute jumps have frequently been made onto the North Pole in recent years. The temporary seasonal Russian camp of Barneo has been established by air a short distance from the Pole annually since 2002, and caters for scientific researchers as well as tourist parties. Trips from the camp to the Pole itself may be arranged overland or by helicopter.\n\nThe first attempt at underwater exploration of the North Pole was made on 22 April 1998 by Russian firefighter and diver Andrei Rozhkov with the support of the Diving Club of Moscow State University, but ended in fatality. The next attempted dive at the North Pole was organized the next year by the same diving club, and ended in success on 24 April 1999. The divers were Michael Wolff (Austria), Brett Cormick (UK), and Bob Wass (USA).\n\nIn 2005 the United States Navy submarine USS \"Charlotte\" (SSN-766) surfaced through of ice at the North Pole and spent 18 hours there.\n\nIn July 2007 British endurance swimmer Lewis Gordon Pugh completed a swim at the North Pole. His feat, undertaken to highlight the effects of global warming, took place in clear water that had opened up between the ice floes. His later attempt to paddle a kayak to the North Pole in late 2008, following the erroneous prediction of clear water to the Pole, was stymied when his expedition found itself stuck in thick ice after only three days. The expedition was then abandoned.\n\nBy September 2007 the North Pole had been visited 66 times by different surface ships: 54 times by Soviet and Russian icebreakers, 4 times by Swedish \"Oden\", 3 times by German \"Polarstern\", 3 times by USCGC \"Healy\" and USCGC \"Polar Sea\", and once by CCGS \"Louis S. St-Laurent\" and by Swedish \"Vidar Viking\".\n\nOn 2 August 2007 a Russian scientific expedition Arktika 2007 made the first ever manned descent to the ocean floor at the North Pole, to a depth of , as part of the research programme in support of Russia's 2001 extended continental shelf claim to a large swathe of the Arctic Ocean floor. The descent took place in two MIR submersibles and was led by Soviet and Russian polar explorer Artur Chilingarov. In a symbolic act of visitation, the Russian flag was placed on the ocean floor exactly at the Pole.\n\nThe expedition was the latest in a series of efforts intended to give Russia a dominant influence in the Arctic according to \"The New York Times\". The warming Arctic climate and summer shrinkage of the iced area has attracted the attention of many countries, such as China and the United States, toward the top of the world, where resources and shipping routes may soon be exploitable.\n\nIn 2009 the Russian Marine Live-Ice Automobile Expedition (MLAE-2009) with Vasily Elagin as a leader and a team of Afanasy Makovnev, Vladimir Obikhod, Alexey Shkrabkin, Sergey Larin, Alexey Ushakov and Nikolay Nikulshin reached the North Pole on two custom-built 6 x 6 low-pressure-tire ATVs — Yemelya-1 and Yemelya-2, designed by Vasily Elagin, a known Russian mountain climber, explorer and engineer. The vehicles reached the North Pole on 26 April 2009, 17:30 (Moscow time). The expedition was partly supported by Russian State Aviation. The Russian Book of Records recognized it as the first successful vehicle trip from land to the Geographical North Pole.\n\nOn 1 March 2013 the Russian Marine Live-Ice Automobile Expedition (MLAE 2013) with Vasily Elagin as a leader, and a team of Afanasy Makovnev, Vladimir Obikhod, Alexey Shkrabkin, Andrey Vankov, Sergey Isayev and Nikolay Kozlov on two custom-built 6 x 6 low-pressure-tire ATVs — Yemelya-3 and Yemelya-4,— started from Golomyanny Island (the Severnaya Zemlya Archipelago) to the North Pole across drifting ice of the Arctic Ocean. The vehicles reached the Pole on 6 April and then continued to the Canadian coast. The coast was reached on 30 April 2013 (83°08N, 075°59W Ward Hant Island), and on 5 May 2013 the expedition finished in Resolute Bay, NU. The way between the Russian borderland (Machtovyi Island of the Severnaya Zemlya Archipelago, 80°15N, 097°27E) and the Canadian coast (Ward Hant Island, 83°08N, 075°59W) took 55 days; it was ~2300 km across drifting ice and about 4000 km in total. The expedition was totally self-dependent and used no external supplies. The expedition was supported by the Russian Geographical Society.\n\nThe sun at the North Pole is continuously above the horizon during the summer and continuously below the horizon during the winter. Sunrise is just before the March equinox (around 20 March); the sun then takes three months to reach its highest point of near 23½° elevation at the summer solstice (around 21 June), after which time it begins to sink, reaching sunset just after the September equinox (around 23 September). When the sun is visible in the polar sky, it appears to move in a horizontal circle above the horizon. This circle gradually rises from near the horizon just after the vernal equinox to its maximum elevation (in degrees) above the horizon at summer solstice and then sinks back toward the horizon before sinking below it at the autumnal equinox. Hence the North and South Poles experience the slowest rates of sunrise and sunset on Earth.\n\nA civil twilight period of about two weeks occurs before sunrise and after sunset, a nautical twilight period of about five weeks occurs before sunrise and after sunset and an astronomical twilight period of about seven weeks occurs before sunrise and after sunset.\n\nThese effects are caused by a combination of the Earth's axial tilt and its revolution around the sun. The direction of the Earth's axial tilt, as well as its angle relative to the plane of the Earth's orbit around the sun, remains very nearly constant over the course of a year (both change very slowly over long time periods). At northern midsummer the North Pole is facing towards the sun to its maximum extent. As the year progresses and the Earth moves around the sun, the North Pole gradually turns away from the sun until at midwinter it is facing away from the Sun to its maximum extent. A similar sequence is observed at the South Pole, with a six-month time difference.\n\nIn most places on Earth, local time is determined by longitude, such that the time of day is more-or-less synchronised to the position of the sun in the sky (for example, at midday the sun is roughly at its highest). This line of reasoning fails at the North Pole, where the sun rises and sets only once per year, and all lines of longitude, and hence all time zones, converge. There is no permanent human presence at the North Pole and no particular time zone has been assigned. Polar expeditions may use any time zone that is convenient, such as Greenwich Mean Time, or the time zone of the country from which they departed.\n\nThe North Pole is substantially warmer than the South Pole because it lies at sea level in the middle of an ocean (which acts as a reservoir of heat), rather than at altitude on a continental land mass. Despite being an ice cap, it shares some characteristics with a tundra climate (\"ETf\") due to the July and August temperatures peaking just above freezing.\n\nWinter temperatures at the northernmost weather station in Greenland can range from about , averaging around , with the North Pole being slightly colder. However, a freak storm caused the temperature to reach for a time at a World Meteorological Organization buoy, located at 87.45°N, on December 30, 2015. It was estimated that the temperature at the North Pole was between during the storm. Summer temperatures (June, July, and August) average around the freezing point (). The highest temperature yet recorded is , much warmer than the South Pole's record high of only . A similar spike in temperatures occurred on November 15, 2016 when temperatures hit freezing. Yet again, February 2018 featured a storm so powerful that temperatures at Cape Morris Jesup, the world's northernmost weather station in Greenland, reached and spent 24 straight hours above freezing. Meanwhile, the pole itself was estimated to reach a high temperature of . This same temperature of was also recorded at the Hollywood Burbank Airport in Los Angeles at the very same time.\n\nThe sea ice at the North Pole is typically around thick, although ice thickness, its spatial extent, and the fraction of open water within the ice pack can vary rapidly and profoundly in response to weather and climate. Studies have shown that the average ice thickness has decreased in recent years. It is likely that global warming has contributed to this, but it is not possible to attribute the recent abrupt decrease in thickness entirely to the observed warming in the Arctic. Reports have also predicted that within a few decades the Arctic Ocean will be entirely free of ice in the summer. This may have significant commercial implications; see \"Territorial Claims,\" below.\n\nThe retreat of the Arctic sea ice will accelerate global warming, as less ice cover reflects less solar radiation, and may have serious climate implications by contributing to Arctic cyclone generation.\nPolar bears are believed to travel rarely beyond about 82° North owing to the scarcity of food, though tracks have been seen in the vicinity of the North Pole, and a 2006 expedition reported sighting a polar bear just from the Pole. The ringed seal has also been seen at the Pole, and Arctic foxes have been observed less than away at 89°40′ N.\n\nBirds seen at or very near the Pole include the snow bunting, northern fulmar and black-legged kittiwake, though some bird sightings may be distorted by the tendency of birds to follow ships and expeditions.\n\nFish have been seen in the waters at the North Pole, but these are probably few in number. A member of the Russian team that descended to the North Pole seabed in August 2007 reported seeing no sea creatures living there. However, it was later reported that a sea anemone had been scooped up from the seabed mud by the Russian team and that video footage from the dive showed unidentified shrimps and amphipods.\n\nCurrently, under international law, no country owns the North Pole or the region of the Arctic Ocean surrounding it. The five surrounding Arctic countries, Russian Federation, Canada, Norway, Denmark (via Greenland), and the United States, are limited to a exclusive economic zone off their coasts, and the area beyond that is administered by the International Seabed Authority.\n\nUpon ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, a country has 10 years to make claims to an extended continental shelf beyond its 200-mile exclusive economic zone. If validated, such a claim gives the claimant state rights to what may be on or beneath the sea bottom within the claimed zone. Norway (ratified the convention in 1996), Russia (ratified in 1997), Canada (ratified in 2003) and Denmark (ratified in 2004) have all launched projects to base claims that certain areas of Arctic continental shelves should be subject to their sole sovereign exploitation.\n\nIn 1907 Canada invoked a \"sector principle\" to claim sovereignty over a sector stretching from its coasts to the North Pole. This claim has not been relinquished, but was not consistently pressed until 2013.\n\nIn some children's Western cultures, the geographic North Pole is described as the location of Santa Claus' workshop and residence, although the depictions have been inconsistent between the geographic and magnetic North Pole. Canada Post has assigned postal code H0H 0H0 to the North Pole (referring to Santa's traditional exclamation of \"Ho ho ho!\").\n\nThis association reflects an age-old esoteric mythology of Hyperborea that posits the North Pole, the otherworldly world-axis, as the abode of God and superhuman beings. The popular figure of the pole-dwelling Santa Claus thus functions as an archetype of spiritual purity and transcendence.\n\nAs Henry Corbin has documented, the North Pole plays a key part in the cultural worldview of Sufism and Iranian mysticism. \"The Orient sought by the mystic, the Orient that cannot be located on our maps, is in the direction of the north, beyond the north.\"\n\nOwing to its remoteness, the Pole is sometimes identified with a mysterious mountain of ancient Iranian tradition called Mount Qaf (Jabal Qaf), the \"farthest point of the earth\". According to certain authors, the Jabal Qaf of Muslim cosmology is a version of Rupes Nigra, a mountain whose ascent, like Dante's climbing of the Mountain of Purgatory, represents the pilgrim's progress through spiritual states. In Iranian theosophy, the heavenly Pole, the focal point of the spiritual ascent, acts as a magnet to draw beings to its \"palaces ablaze with immaterial matter.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "35832066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35832066", "title": "Open Source Routing Machine", "text": "Open Source Routing Machine\n\nThe Open Source Routing Machine or OSRM is a C++ implementation of a high-performance routing engine for shortest paths in road networks. Licensed under the permissive 2-clause BSD license, OSRM is a free network service. OSRM supports Linux, FreeBSD, Windows, and Mac OS X platform.\n\nIt combines sophisticated routing algorithms with the open and free road network data of the OpenStreetMap (OSM) project. Shortest path computation on a continental sized network can take up to several seconds if it is done without a so-called speedup-technique. OSRM uses an implementation of Contraction Hierarchies and is able to compute and output a shortest path between any origin and destination within a few milliseconds, whereby the pure route computation takes much less time. Most effort is spent in annotating the route and transmitting the geometry over the network.\n\nSince it is designed with OpenStreetMap compatibility in mind, OSM data files can be easily imported. A demo installation is sponsored by Karlsruhe Institute of Technology and previously by Geofabrik. OSRM is under active development. The screen shot image shown is since Sept 2015 out of date with loss of attendant routing service features.\n\nOSRM was part of the 2011 Google Summer of Code class.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16279030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16279030", "title": "Outline of Maldives", "text": "Outline of Maldives\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the Maldives:\n\nThe Maldives – island nation comprising a group of atolls in the Indian Ocean. The Maldives is located south of India's Lakshadweep islands, and about seven hundred kilometres (435 mi) south-west of Sri Lanka. The twenty-six atolls of Maldives' encompass a territory featuring 1,192 islets, two hundred and fifty islands of which are inhabited.\n\nThe name \"Maldives\" may derive from \"Maale Dhivehi Raajje\" (\"The Island Kingdom [under the authority of] Malé\").\" Some scholars believe that the name \"Maldives\" derives from the Sanskrit \"maladvipa\", meaning \"garland of islands\", or from \"mahila dvipa\", meaning \"island of women\", but these names are not found in ancient Sanskrit literature. Instead, classical Sanskrit texts mention the \"Hundred Thousand Islands\" (Lakshadweepa); a generic name which would include not only the Maldives, but also the Laccadives and the Chagos island groups. Another theory suggests that the name \"Maldives\" derives from the Tamil \"malai tivu\" meaning \"island of hills.\" Some medieval Arab travellers such as Ibn Batuta called the islands \"Mahal Dibiyat\" from the Arabic word \"Mahal\" (\"palace\").\" This is the name presently inscribed in the scroll of the Maldive state emblem.\n\nThe inhabitants were Buddhist, probably since Ashoka's period, in the 3rd century BC. Islam was introduced in 1153. The Maldives came then under the influence of the Portuguese (1558) and the Dutch (1654) seaborne empires. And in 1887 it became a British protectorate. In 1965, the Maldives obtained independence from Britain (originally under the name \"Maldive Islands\"), and in 1968 the Sultanate was replaced by a Republic.\n\nThe Maldives is the smallest Asian country in terms of population. It is also the smallest predominantly Muslim nation in the world.\n\n\nGeography of Maldives\n\n\n\n\nNone\n\nMunicipalities of Maldives\n\nDemographics of Maldives\n\nPolitics of Maldives\n\nGovernment of Maldives\n\n\n\nCourt system of Maldives\n\nForeign relations of Maldives\n\nThe Republic of Maldives is a member of:\n\nLaw of Maldives\n\nMilitary of Maldives\n\nLocal government in Maldives\n\nHistory of Maldives\n\nCulture of Maldives\n\n\nSports in Maldives\n\nEconomy of Maldives\n\nEducation in Maldives\n\nMaldives\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16279058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16279058", "title": "Outline of Mauritius", "text": "Outline of Mauritius\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Mauritius:\n\nMauritius – sovereign island nation located in the southwest Indian Ocean about east of Madagascar. In addition to the Island of Mauritius, the republic includes the islands of St. Brandon, Rodrigues and the Agalega Islands. Mauritius is part of the Mascarene Islands, with the French island of Réunion 200 km (125 mi) to the southwest and the island of Rodrigues 570 km to the northeast.\n\n\n\n\n\nRegions of Mauritius\n\nList of ecoregions in Mauritius\n\n\nDemographics of Mauritius\n\nPolitics of Mauritius\n\nGovernment of Mauritius\n\n\n\nCourt system of Mauritius\n\nForeign relations of Mauritius\n\nThe Republic of Mauritius is a member of:\n\nLaw of Mauritius\n\nMilitary of Mauritius\n\nLocal government in Mauritius\n\nHistory of Mauritius\n\nCulture of Mauritius\n\nOpera Mauritius and The Friends,\n\nSports in Mauritius\n\nEconomy of Mauritius\n\nEducation in Mauritius\n\nMauritius\n\n"}
{"id": "22394646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22394646", "title": "Paul C. Adams", "text": "Paul C. Adams\n\nPaul C. Adams is Professor and Director of Urban Studies at the Department of Geography and the Environment at University of Texas at Austin. Adams applies various approaches from human geography to study media and communication. His research has helped develop the subdiscipline geography of media and communication by integrating studies of place representations, communication infrastructures, social processes, and routines of media use in daily life.\n\nIn 1984, Adams received his Bachelor of Environmental Design (with Special Honors) from the University of Colorado at Boulder in Boulder, Colorado. He received his M.S. in Geography in 1990 and his Ph.D. in Geography in 1993, both from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Adams specializes in geography of communication technologies, nationalism, critical geopolitics, and representations of space and place. Before arriving at the University of Texas at Austin, Adams had held academic positions at Virginia Tech, the State University of New York at Albany, and Texas A&M University.\n\nHe has held visiting research and teaching fellowships at Karlstad University in Sweden, University of Bergen in Norway, and McGill University and Université de Montréal in Quebec. \nHe has also held visiting professor appointments at Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz, in Germany, and University of Canterbury, in Christchurch, New Zealand.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6251222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6251222", "title": "Phoenix Plate", "text": "Phoenix Plate\n\nThe Phoenix Plate (also known as the Aluk or Drake Plate) was an ancient tectonic plate that existed during the mid-Cretaceous through early Cenozoic time. The remainder of the plate is now located east of the Drake Passage/Shackleton Fracture Zone.\n\nThe Phoenix Plate began subducting under the Antarctic Plate. The Phoenix Ridge, a mid-oceanic ridge between the Pacific and the Phoenix Plates which had a spreading rate of 18–20 cm per year until around 84 Ma. A major decrease in spreading rate, and the convergence rate with the Antarctic Plate occurred around 52.3 Ma. During the Late Cretaceous, the Phoenix Plate fragmented into the Charcot Plate, much in the same way in which the Rivera and the Cocos Plate were formed by the fragmentation of the Farallon Plate.\n\nThe Antarctic-Phoenix Ridge (sometimes also called the Phoenix Ridge) consists of three extinct spreading ridge segments between the Antarctic Peninsula and the Scotia Sea. This ridge was initiated during the Late Cretaceous-Early Tertiary when the plate had divergent boundaries with the Bellingshausen and Pacific Plates. Bellingshausen was fused with the Antarctic Plate around 61 Ma and the Phoenix plate was gradually subducted by the Antarctic Plate as the Pacific-Antarctic Ridge propagated. The last collision between ridge crest segments and the subduction zone happened around 6.5 Ma and spreading had ceased entirely by 3.3 Ma when the small remnant of the Phoenix Plate was incorporated into the Antarctic Plate. The South Shetland Trough is the south-eastern boundary of the remnant and the Shackleton Fracture Zone is its north-eastern boundary.\n\n"}
{"id": "55471299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55471299", "title": "Podmelnica", "text": "Podmelnica\n\nPodmelnica is a village in Croatia, under the Slunj township, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "12801156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12801156", "title": "Primary airport control station", "text": "Primary airport control station\n\nPrimary Airport Control Station, or PACS, is a survey marker established in the vicinity of an airport and tied directly to the National Spatial Reference System. This control consists of permanent marks with precisely determined latitudes, longitudes and elevations. PACS and SACS are designated by the National Geodetic Survey and must meet the specific siting, construction, and accuracy requirements. (also see airport security)\n\nPACS coordinates are established by meeting a survey, data processing, adjustment and reporting standard known as the NGS Bluebook. (See Aviation safety for more info)\n\n"}
{"id": "2534064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2534064", "title": "Ras al Hadd", "text": "Ras al Hadd\n\nRas al Hadd (رأس الحد) is a village in Ash Sharqiyah district in Oman. \n\nThe beaches at Ras al Hadd and nearby Ras al-Jinz (رأس الجنز) are known as a breeding ground for green sea turtles.\n\nThere is an Indian listening post at Ras al Hadd, and birthing rights for the Indian Navy at Mascat naval base.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "228148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228148", "title": "Remote sensing", "text": "Remote sensing\n\nRemote sensing is the acquisition of information about an object or phenomenon without making physical contact with the object and thus in contrast to on-site observation, especially the Earth. Remote sensing is used in numerous fields, including geography, land surveying and most Earth Science disciplines (for example, hydrology, ecology, meteorology, oceanography, glaciology, geology); it also has military, intelligence, commercial, economic, planning, and humanitarian applications.\n\nIn current usage, the term \"remote sensing\" generally refers to the use of satellite- or aircraft-based sensor technologies to detect and classify objects on Earth, including on the surface and in the atmosphere and oceans, based on propagated signals (e.g. electromagnetic radiation). It may be split into \"active\" remote sensing (i.e., when a signal is emitted by a satellite or aircraft and its reflection by the object is detected by the sensor) and \"passive\" remote sensing (i.e., when the reflection of sunlight is detected by the sensor).\n\nPassive sensors gather radiation that is emitted or reflected by the object or surrounding areas. Reflected sunlight is the most common source of radiation measured by passive sensors. Examples of passive remote sensors include film photography, infrared, charge-coupled devices, and radiometers. Active collection, on the other hand, emits energy in order to scan objects and areas whereupon a sensor then detects and measures the radiation that is reflected or backscattered from the target. RADAR and LiDAR are examples of active remote sensing where the time delay between emission and return is measured, establishing the location, speed and direction of an object.\nRemote sensing makes it possible to collect data of dangerous or inaccessible areas. Remote sensing applications include monitoring deforestation in areas such as the Amazon Basin, glacial features in Arctic and Antarctic regions, and depth sounding of coastal and ocean depths. Military collection during the Cold War made use of stand-off collection of data about dangerous border areas. Remote sensing also replaces costly and slow data collection on the ground, ensuring in the process that areas or objects are not disturbed.\n\nOrbital platforms collect and transmit data from different parts of the electromagnetic spectrum, which in conjunction with larger scale aerial or ground-based sensing and analysis, provides researchers with enough information to monitor trends such as El Niño and other natural long and short term phenomena. Other uses include different areas of the earth sciences such as natural resource management, agricultural fields such as land usage and conservation, and national security and overhead, ground-based and stand-off collection on border areas.\n\nThe basis for multispectral collection and analysis is that of examined areas or objects that reflect or emit radiation that stand out from surrounding areas. For a summary of major remote sensing satellite systems see the overview table.\n\n\n\n\nTo coordinate a series of large-scale observations, most sensing systems depend on the following: platform location and the orientation of the sensor. High-end instruments now often use positional information from satellite navigation systems. The rotation and orientation is often provided within a degree or two with electronic compasses. Compasses can measure not just azimuth (i. e. degrees to magnetic north), but also altitude (degrees above the horizon), since the magnetic field curves into the Earth at different angles at different latitudes. More exact orientations require gyroscopic-aided orientation, periodically realigned by different methods including navigation from stars or known benchmarks.\n\nGenerally speaking, remote sensing works on the principle of the \"inverse problem\". While the object or phenomenon of interest (the state) may not be directly measured, there exists some other variable that can be detected and measured (the observation) which may be related to the object of interest through a calculation. The common analogy given to describe this is trying to determine the type of animal from its footprints. For example, while it is impossible to directly measure temperatures in the upper atmosphere, it is possible to measure the spectral emissions from a known chemical species (such as carbon dioxide) in that region. The frequency of the emissions may then be related via thermodynamics to the temperature in that region.\n\nThe quality of remote sensing data consists of its spatial, spectral, radiometric and temporal resolutions.\n\n\nIn order to create sensor-based maps, most remote sensing systems expect to extrapolate sensor data in relation to a reference point including distances between known points on the ground. This depends on the type of sensor used. For example, in conventional photographs, distances are accurate in the center of the image, with the distortion of measurements increasing the farther you get from the center. Another factor is that of the platen against which the film is pressed can cause severe errors when photographs are used to measure ground distances. The step in which this problem is resolved is called georeferencing, and involves computer-aided matching of points in the image (typically 30 or more points per image) which is extrapolated with the use of an established benchmark, \"warping\" the image to produce accurate spatial data. As of the early 1990s, most satellite images are sold fully georeferenced.\n\nIn addition, images may need to be radiometrically and atmospherically corrected.\n\n\nInterpretation is the critical process of making sense of the data. The first application was that of aerial photographic collection which used the following process; spatial measurement through the use of a light table in both conventional single or stereographic coverage, added skills such as the use of photogrammetry, the use of photomosaics, repeat coverage, Making use of objects’ known dimensions in order to detect modifications. Image Analysis is the recently developed automated computer-aided application which is in increasing use.\n\nObject-Based Image Analysis (OBIA) is a sub-discipline of GIScience devoted to partitioning remote sensing (RS) imagery into meaningful image-objects, and assessing their characteristics through spatial, spectral and temporal scale.\n\nOld data from remote sensing is often valuable because it may provide the only long-term data for a large extent of geography. At the same time, the data is often complex to interpret, and bulky to store. Modern systems tend to store the data digitally, often with lossless compression. The difficulty with this approach is that the data is fragile, the format may be archaic, and the data may be easy to falsify. One of the best systems for archiving data series is as computer-generated machine-readable ultrafiche, usually in typefonts such as OCR-B, or as digitized half-tone images. Ultrafiches survive well in standard libraries, with lifetimes of several centuries. They can be created, copied, filed and retrieved by automated systems. They are about as compact as archival magnetic media, and yet can be read by human beings with minimal, standardized equipment.\n\nTo facilitate the discussion of data processing in practice, several processing \"levels\" were first defined in 1986 by NASA as part of its Earth Observing System and steadily adopted since then, both internally at NASA (e. g.,) and elsewhere (e. g.,); these definitions are:\nA Level 1 data record is the most fundamental (i. e., highest reversible level) data record that has significant scientific utility, and is the foundation upon which all subsequent data sets are produced. Level 2 is the first level that is directly usable for\nmost scientific applications; its value is much greater than the lower levels. Level 2 data sets tend to be less voluminous than Level 1 data because they have been reduced temporally, spatially, or spectrally. Level 3 data sets are generally smaller than lower level data sets and thus can be dealt with without incurring a great deal of data handling overhead. These data tend to be generally more useful for many applications. The regular spatial and temporal organization of Level 3 datasets makes it feasible to readily combine data from different sources.\n\nWhile these processing levels are particularly suitable for typical satellite data processing pipelines, other data level vocabularies have been defined and may be appropriate for more heterogeneous workflows.\n\nThe modern discipline of remote sensing arose with the development of flight. The balloonist G. Tournachon (alias Nadar) made photographs of Paris from his balloon in 1858. Messenger pigeons, kites, rockets and unmanned balloons were also used for early images. With the exception of balloons, these first, individual images were not particularly useful for map making or for scientific purposes.\n\nSystematic aerial photography was developed for military surveillance and reconnaissance purposes beginning in World War I and reaching a climax during the Cold War with the use of modified combat aircraft such as the P-51, P-38, RB-66 and the F-4C, or specifically designed collection platforms such as the U2/TR-1, SR-71, A-5 and the OV-1 series both in overhead and stand-off collection. A more recent development is that of increasingly smaller sensor pods such as those used by law enforcement and the military, in both manned and unmanned platforms. The advantage of this approach is that this requires minimal modification to a given airframe. Later imaging technologies would include infrared, conventional, Doppler and synthetic aperture radar.\n\nThe development of artificial satellites in the latter half of the 20th century allowed remote sensing to progress to a global scale as of the end of the Cold War. Instrumentation aboard various Earth observing and weather satellites such as Landsat, the Nimbus and more recent missions such as RADARSAT and UARS provided global measurements of various data for civil, research, and military purposes. Space probes to other planets have also provided the opportunity to conduct remote sensing studies in extraterrestrial environments, synthetic aperture radar aboard the Magellan spacecraft provided detailed topographic maps of Venus, while instruments aboard SOHO allowed studies to be performed on the Sun and the solar wind, just to name a few examples.\n\nRecent developments include, beginning in the 1960s and 1970s with the development of image processing of satellite imagery. Several research groups in Silicon Valley including NASA Ames Research Center, GTE, and ESL Inc. developed Fourier transform techniques leading to the first notable enhancement of imagery data. In 1999 the first commercial satellite (IKONOS) collecting very high resolution imagery was launched.\n\nAt most universities remote sensing is associated with Geography departments. Remote Sensing has a growing relevance in the modern information society. It represents a key technology as part of the aerospace industry and bears increasing economic relevance – new sensors e.g. TerraSAR-X and RapidEye are developed constantly and the demand for skilled labour is increasing steadily. Furthermore, remote sensing exceedingly influences everyday life, ranging from weather forecasts to reports on climate change or natural disasters. As an example, 80% of the German students use the services of Google Earth; in 2006 alone the software was downloaded 100 million times. But studies have shown that only a fraction of them know more about the data they are working with. There exists a huge knowledge gap between the application and the understanding of satellite images.\nRemote sensing only plays a tangential role in schools, regardless of the political claims to strengthen the support for teaching on the subject. A lot of the computer software explicitly developed for school lessons has not yet been implemented due to its complexity. Thereby, the subject is either not at all integrated into the curriculum or does not pass the step of an interpretation of analogue images. In fact, the subject of remote sensing requires a consolidation of physics and mathematics as well as competences in the fields of media and methods apart from the mere visual interpretation of satellite images.\n\nMany teachers have great interest in the subject \"remote sensing\", being motivated to integrate this topic into teaching, provided that the curriculum is considered. In many cases, this encouragement fails because of confusing information. In order to integrate remote sensing in a sustainable manner organizations like the EGU or Digital Earth encourage the development of learning modules and learning portals. Examples include: \"FIS – Remote Sensing in School Lessons\", \"Geospektiv\", \"Ychange\", or Spatial Discovery, to promote media and method qualifications as well as independent learning.\n\nRemote sensing data are processed and analyzed with computer software, known as a remote sensing application. A large number of proprietary and open source applications exist to process remote sensing data. Remote sensing software packages include:\n\nOpen source remote sensing software includes:\n\nAccording to an NOAA Sponsored Research by Global Marketing Insights, Inc. the most used applications among Asian academic groups involved in remote sensing are as follows: ERDAS 36% (ERDAS IMAGINE 25% & ERMapper 11%); ESRI 30%; ITT Visual Information Solutions ENVI 17%; MapInfo 17%.\n\nAmong Western Academic respondents as follows: ESRI 39%, ERDAS IMAGINE 27%, MapInfo 9%, and AutoDesk 7%.\n\nIn education, those that want to go beyond simply looking at satellite images print-outs either use general remote sensing software (e.g. QGIS), Google Earth, StoryMaps or a software/ web-app developed specifically for education (e.g. desktop: LeoWorks, online: BLIF).\n\nFirst Satellite UV/VIS observations simply showed pictures of the\nEarth's surface and atmosphere. Such satellite images are still used,\nfor instance as input for numerical weather forecast. The first\nspectroscopic UV/VIS observations started in 1970 on board of the US\nresearch satellite Nimbus 4. These measurements (backscatter\nultraviolet, BUV, later also called Solar BUV, SBUV) operated in nadir\ngeometry, i.e., they measured the solar light reflected from the ground\nor scattered from the atmosphere. Like for the Dobson instruments also\nthe BUV/SBUV instruments measure the intensity in different narrow\nspectral intervals. The intention of these BUV/SBUV observations was to\ndetermine information on the atmospheric O profile, since the\npenetration depth into the atmosphere strongly depends on wavelength.\nFor example, the light at the shortest wavelengths has only 'seen' the\nhighest parts of the O layer whereas the longest wavelengths have seen\nthe total column. While in principle the BUV/SBUV measurements worked\nwell, they suffered from instrumental instabilities.\n\nThe big breakthrough in UV/VIS satellite remote sensing of the\natmosphere took place in 1979 with the launch the Total Ozone Mapping\nSpectrometer (TOMS) on Nimbus 7. TOMS is similar to the BUV/SBUV\ninstrument but measures light at longer wavelengths. Thus it is only\nsensitive to the total O column (instead of the\nO profile). However, compared to the BUV/SBUV instruments\nthe TOMS instruments were much more stable. The TOMS instrument on board\nof Nimbus 7 yielded the so far longest global data set on O\n(1979 - 1992). This period in particular includes the discovery of the\nozone hole. Several further TOMS instruments have been launched on other\nsatellites. Like the Dobson instruments on the ground they yield very\naccurate O total column densities using a relatively simple\nmethod. Besides events of very strong atmospheric SO\nabsorption and aerosols they are, however, only sensitive to\nO.\n\nSince April 1995 the first DOAS instrument is operating from space. The\nGlobal Ozone Monitoring Experiment (GOME) was launched on the European\nresearch satellite ERS-2. Like SBUV and TOMS also GOME is a nadir\nviewing instrument; unlike its predecessor instruments it covers a large\nspectral range (240 - 790 nm) at a total of 4096 wavelengths arranged in\nfour 'channels' with a spectral resolution between 0.2 and 0.4 nm. Its\nnormal ground pixel size in 320 x 40 km. Global coverage is achieved\nafter three days. For O profile measurements the intensities\nat short wavelengths are observed (BUV/SBUV instruments). For the\ndetermination of the total atmospheric O column the\nintensities at larger wavelengths are used (TOMS instruments). In\ncontrast to the limited spectral information of BUV/SBUV and TOMS\ninstruments, GOME spectra yield a surplus of spectral information. By\napplying the DOAS method to these measurements it is thus possible to\nretrieve a large variety of atmospheric trace gases, the majority of\nwhich are very weak absorbers (O, NO, BrO, OClO,\nHCHO, HO, O, O, SO). In\naddition also other quantities like aerosol absorptions, the ground\nalbedo or indices characterising the solar cycle can be analysed.\nBecause of the high sensitivity of GOME it is in particular possible to\nmeasure various tropospheric trace gases (NO, BrO, HCHO,\nH2O, SO). A further important advantage is that the GOME\nspectra can be analysed with respect to a spectrum of direct sun light,\nwhich contains no atmospheric absorptions. Therefore in contrast to\nground based DOAS measurements the DOAS analysis of GOME spectra yields\ntotal atmospheric column densities rather than the difference between\ntwo atmospheric spectra.\n\nIn March 2002 a second DOAS satellite instrument, the SCanning Imaging\nAbsorption SpectroMeter for Atmospheric ChartographY (SCIAMACHY) was\nlaunched on board of the European research satellite Envisat. In\naddition to GOME it measures over a wider wavelength range (240 nm -\n2380) including also the absorption of several greenhouse gases (CO,\nCH, NO) and CO in the IR. It also operated in\nadditional viewing modes (nadir, limb, occultation), which allows to\nderive stratospheric trace gas profiles. Another advantage is that the\nground pixel size for the nadir viewing mode was significantly reduced\nto 30 x 60 km (in a special mode even to 15 x 30\nkm). Especially for the observation of tropospheric trace\ngases this is very important because of the strong spatial gradients\noccurring for such species. The first tropospheric results of SCIAMACHY\nshowed that it was now possible to identify pollution plumes of\nindividual cities or other big sources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33736281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33736281", "title": "Rhein II", "text": "Rhein II\n\nRhein II is a photograph made by German visual artist Andreas Gursky in 1999. In the image, a river (the Lower Rhine) flows horizontally across the field of view, between flat green fields, under an overcast sky. Extraneous details such as dog walkers and a factory building were removed by the artist using digital editing.\n\nIn 2011, a print was auctioned for $4.3 million (then £2.7m), making it the most expensive photograph ever sold.\n\nThe photograph was produced as the second (and largest) of a set of six depicting the river Rhine. In the image, the Lower Rhine flows horizontally across the field of view, between flat green fields, under an overcast sky.\n\nExtraneous details such as dog walkers and a factory building were removed by the artist using digital editing. Justifying this manipulation of the image, Gursky said \"Paradoxically, this view of the Rhine cannot be obtained in situ, a fictitious construction was required to provide an accurate image of a modern river.\" Gursky produced a very large chromogenic colour print of the photograph, mounted it onto acrylic glass, and then placed it in a frame. The image itself measures , while the frame measures .\n\nThe print was originally acquired by the Galerie Monika Sprüth in Cologne, and subsequently bought by an anonymous German collector. The collector sold the print by auction at Christie's New York on 8 November 2011, who estimated it would fetch a price of $2.5–3.5m. It actually sold for $4,338,500 (then about £2.7m); the identity of the buyer has not been revealed.\n\nThe work has been described by arts writer Florence Waters in \"The Daily Telegraph\" as a \"vibrant, beautiful and memorable – I should say unforgettable – contemporary twist on [...] the romantic landscape\" and by journalist Maev Kennedy in \"The Guardian\" as \"a sludgy image of the grey Rhine under grey skies\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "714908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714908", "title": "Ridge", "text": "Ridge\n\nA ridge or a mountain ridge is a geological feature consisting of a chain of mountains or hills that form a continuous elevated crest for some distance. The sides of the ridge slope away from narrow top on either side.The line along the crest formed by the highest points, with the terrain dropping down on either side, is called the ridgeline. Ridges are usually termed hills or mountains as well, depending on size.\n\nThere are several main types of ridges:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2794822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2794822", "title": "SS Cotopaxi", "text": "SS Cotopaxi\n\nSS \"Cotopaxi\" was a tramp steamer named after the Cotopaxi stratovolcano. She vanished in December 1925, while en route from Charleston, South Carolina, United States, to Havana, Cuba, with all hands.\n\n\"Cotopaxi\" is a cargo ship of . She was built by the Great Lakes Engineering Works, Ecorse, Michigan, in 1918 for the Clinchfield Navigation Company.\n\n\"Cotopaxi\" was long between perpendiculars, with a beam of . Her steam engine could propel her at .\n\nOn 29 November 1925, \"Cotopaxi\" departed Charleston, South Carolina, for Havana, Cuba, under Captain W. J. Meyer. She was carrying a cargo of coal and a crew of 32. On 1 December, \"Cotopaxi\" radioed a distress call, reporting that the ship was listing and taking on water during a tropical storm. The ship was officially listed as overdue on 31 December.\n\nDespite the last radio transmission indicating that the ship was about to sink, she has since been connected to the legend of the Bermuda Triangle.\n\nIn the 1977 film \"Close Encounters of the Third Kind\", \"Cotopaxi\" is discovered, located in the Gobi Desert, presumably set there by extraterrestrial forces. In a documentary on the making of the film, it is said that the model they used looked nothing like the actual vessel.\n\n"}
{"id": "39071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39071", "title": "Samuel de Champlain", "text": "Samuel de Champlain\n\nSamuel de Champlain ( born Samuel Champlain; on August 13, 1567 – December 25, 1635), known as \"The Father of New France\", was a French settler, navigator, cartographer, draftsman, soldier, explorer, geographer, ethnologist, diplomat, and chronicler. He made from 21-29 trips across the Atlantic, and founded New France and Quebec City on July 3, 1608. He is important to Canadian history because he made the first accurate map of the coast and he helped found the settlements.\n\nBorn into a family of mariners, Champlain, while still a young boy, began exploring North America in 1603 under the guidance of François Gravé Du Pont, his uncle. From 1604 to 1607, Champlain participated in the exploration and settlement of the first permanent European settlement north of Florida, Port Royal, Acadia (1605) as well as the first European settlement that would become Saint John, New Brunswick (1604). Then, in 1608, he established the French settlement that is now Quebec City, Canada. Champlain was the first European to explore and describe the Great Lakes, and published maps of his journeys and accounts of what he learned from the natives and the French living among the Natives. He formed relationships with local Montagnais and Innu and later with others farther west (Ottawa River, Lake Nipissing, or Georgian Bay), with Algonquin and with Wendat, and agreed to provide assistance in the Beaver Wars against the Iroquois.\n\nIn 1620, Louis XIII of France ordered Champlain to cease exploration, return to Quebec, and devote himself to the administration of the country. In every way but formal title, Samuel \"de\" Champlain served as Governor of New France, a title that may have been formally unavailable to him owing to his non-noble status. He established trading companies that sent goods, primarily fur, to France, and oversaw the growth of New France in the St. Lawrence River valley until his death in 1635.\n\nChamplain is memorialized as the \"Father of New France\" and \"Father of Acadia\", and many places, streets, and structures in northeastern North America bear his name, or have monuments established in his memory. The most notable of these is Lake Champlain, which straddles the border between northern New York and Vermont, extending slightly across the border into Canada. In 1609 he led an expedition up the Richelieu River and explored a long, narrow lake situated between the Green Mountains of present-day Vermont and the Adirondack Mountains of present-day New York; he named the lake after himself as the first European to map and describe it.\n\nChamplain was born to Antoine Champlain (also written \"Anthoine Chappelain\" in some records) and Marguerite Le Roy, in either Hiers-Brouage, or the port city of La Rochelle, in the French province of Aunis. He was born on or before August 13, 1574, according to a recent baptism record found by Jean-Marie Germe, French genealogist. Although in 1870, the Canadian Catholic priest Laverdière, in the first chapter of his \"Œuvres de Champlain\", accepted Pierre-Damien Rainguet's estimate and tried to justify it, his calculations were based on assumptions now believed, or proven, to be incorrect. Although Léopold Delayant (member, secretary, then president of \"l'Académie des belles-lettres, sciences et arts de La Rochelle\") wrote as early as 1867 that Rainguet's estimate was wrong, the books of Rainguet and Laverdière have had a significant influence. The 1567 date was carved on numerous monuments dedicated to Champlain and is widely regarded as accurate. In the first half of the 20th century, some authors disagreed, choosing 1570 or 1575 instead of 1567. In 1978 Jean Liebel published groundbreaking research about these estimates of Champlain's birth year and concluded, \"Samuel Champlain was born about 1580 in Brouage, France.\" Liebel asserts that some authors, including the Catholic priests Rainguet and Laverdière, preferred years when Brouage was under Catholic control (which include 1567, 1570, and 1575).\nChamplain claimed to be from Brouage in the title of his 1603 book and to be \"Saintongeois\" in the title of his second book (1613). He belonged to either a Protestant family, or a tolerant Roman Catholic one, since Brouage was most of the time a Catholic city in a Protestant region, and his Old Testament first name (Samuel) was not usually given to Catholic children. The exact location of his birth is thus also not known with certainty, but at the time of his birth his parents were living in Brouage.\n\nBorn into a family of mariners (both his father and uncle-in-law were sailors, or navigators), Samuel Champlain learned to navigate, draw, make nautical charts, and write practical reports. His education did not include Ancient Greek or Latin, so he did not read or learn from any ancient literature. As each French fleet had to assure its own defense at sea, Champlain sought to learn to fight with the firearms of his time: he acquired this practical knowledge when serving with the army of King Henry IV during the later stages of France's religious wars in Brittany from 1594 or 1595 to 1598, beginning as a quartermaster responsible for the feeding and care of horses. During this time he claimed to go on a \"certain secret voyage\" for the king, and saw combat (including maybe the Siege of Fort Crozon, at the end of 1594). By 1597 he was a \"capitaine d'une compagnie\" serving in a garrison near Quimper.\n\nIn 1598, his uncle-in-law, a navigator whose ship \"Saint-Julien\" was chartered to transport Spanish troops to Cádiz pursuant to the Treaty of Vervins, gave Champlain the opportunity to accompany him. After a difficult passage, he spent some time in Cadiz before his uncle, whose ship was then chartered to accompany a large Spanish fleet to the West Indies, again offered him a place on the ship. His uncle, who gave command of the ship to Jeronimo de Valaebrera, instructed the young Champlain to watch over the ship. This journey lasted two years, and gave Champlain the opportunity to see or hear about Spanish holdings from the Caribbean to Mexico City. Along the way he took detailed notes, and wrote an illustrated report on what he learned on this trip, and gave this secret report to King Henry, who rewarded Champlain with an annual pension. This report was published for the first time in 1870, by Laverdière, as \"Brief Discours des Choses plus remarquables que Sammuel Champlain de Brouage a reconneues aux Indes Occidentalles au voiage qu'il en a faict en icettes en l'année 1599 et en l'année 1601, comme ensuite\" (and in English as \"Narrative of a Voyage to the West Indies and Mexico 1599–1602\"). The authenticity of this account as a work written by Champlain has frequently been questioned, due to inaccuracies and discrepancies with other sources on a number of points; however, recent scholarship indicates that the work probably was authored by Champlain.\n\nOn Champlain's return to Cadiz in August 1600, his uncle, who had fallen ill, asked him to look after his business affairs. This Champlain did, and when his uncle died in June 1601, Champlain inherited his substantial estate. It included an estate near La Rochelle, commercial properties in Spain, and a 150-ton merchant ship. This inheritance, combined with the king's annual pension, gave the young explorer a great deal of independence, as he was not dependent on the financial backing of merchants and other investors. From 1601 to 1603 Champlain served as a geographer in the court of King Henry IV. As part of his duties he traveled to French ports and learned much about North America from the fishermen that seasonally traveled to coastal areas from Nantucket to Newfoundland to capitalize on the rich fishing grounds there. He also made a study of previous French failures at colonization in the area, including that of Pierre de Chauvin at Tadoussac. When Chauvin forfeited his monopoly on fur trade in North America in 1602, responsibility for renewing the trade was given to Aymar de Chaste. Champlain approached de Chaste about a position on the first voyage, which he received with the king's assent.\n\nChamplain's first trip to North America was as an observer on a fur-trading expedition led by François Gravé Du Pont. Du Pont was a navigator and merchant who had been a ship's captain on Chauvin's expedition, and with whom Champlain established a firm lifelong friendship. He educated Champlain about navigation in North America, including the Saint Lawrence River, and in dealing with the natives there (and in Acadia after). The \"Bonne-Renommée\" (the \"Good Fame\") arrived at Tadoussac on March 15, 1603. Champlain was anxious to see for himself all of the places that Jacques Cartier had seen and described about sixty years earlier, and wanted to go even further than Cartier, if possible. Champlain created a map of the Saint Lawrence on this trip and, after his return to France on September 20, published an account as \"Des Sauvages: ou voyage de Samuel Champlain, de Brouages, faite en la France nouvelle l'an 1603\" (\"Concerning the Savages: or travels of Samuel Champlain of Brouages, made in New France in the year 1603\"). Included in his account were meetings with Begourat, a chief of the Montagnais at Tadoussac, in which positive relationships were established between the French and the many Montagnais gathered there, with some Algonquin friends.\n\nPromising to King Henry to report on further discoveries, Champlain joined a second expedition to New France in the spring of 1604. This trip, once again an exploratory journey without women and children, lasted several years, and focused on areas south of the St. Lawrence River, in what later became known as Acadia. It was led by Pierre Dugua de Mons, a noble and Protestant merchant who had been given a fur trading monopoly in New France by the king. Dugua asked Champlain to find a site for winter settlement. After exploring possible sites in the Bay of Fundy, Champlain selected Saint Croix Island in the St. Croix River as the site of the expedition's first winter settlement. After enduring a harsh winter on the island the settlement was relocated across the bay where they established Port Royal. Until 1607, Champlain used that site as his base, while he explored the Atlantic coast. Dugua was forced to leave the settlement for France in September 1605, because he learned that his monopoly was at risk. His monopoly was rescinded by the king in July 1607 under pressure from other merchants and proponents of free trade, leading to the abandonment of the settlement.\n\nIn 1605 and 1606, Champlain explored the North American coast as far south as Cape Cod, searching for sites for a permanent settlement. Minor skirmishes with the resident Nausets dissuaded him from the idea of establishing one near present-day Chatham, Massachusetts. He named the area Mallebar (\"bad bar\").\n\nIn the spring of 1608, Dugua wanted Champlain to start a new French colony and fur trading center on the shores of the St. Lawrence. Dugua equipped, at his own expense, a fleet of three ships with workers, that left the French port of Honfleur. The main ship, called the \"Don-de-Dieu\" (French for the \"Gift of God\"), was commanded by Champlain. Another ship, the \"Lévrier\" (the \"Hunt Dog\"), was commanded by his friend Du Pont. The small group of male settlers arrived at Tadoussac on the lower St. Lawrence in June. Because of the dangerous strength of the Saguenay River ending there, they left the ships and continued up the \"Big River\" in small boats bringing the men and the materials.\n\nOn July 3, 1608, Champlain landed at the \"point of Quebec\" and set about fortifying the area by the erection of three main wooden buildings, each two stories tall, that he collectively called the \"Habitation\", with a wooden stockade and a moat wide surrounding them. This was the very beginning of Quebec City. Gardening, exploring, and fortifying this place became great passions of Champlain for the rest of his life.\n\nIn the 1620s, the \"Habitation\" at Quebec was mainly a store for the \"Compagnie des Marchands\" (Traders Company), and Champlain lived in the wooden \"Fort Saint Louis\" newly built up the hill (south from the present-day \"Château Frontenac\" Hotel), near the only two houses built by the two settler families (the ones of Louis Hébert and Guillaume Couillard, his son-in-law).\n\nIn May 1610, King Henry was assassinated in Paris by a Catholic fanatic, and rule fell to his wife, Marie de' Medici, as regent for the nine-year-old Louis XIII. Marie was a staunch Catholic with little interest in New France, and many of Champlain's Protestant financial supporters, including Pierre Dugua de Mons, were denied access to court. Champlain, on hearing the news, returned to France in September 1610 to establish new political connections in support of efforts at colonization.\n\nOne route Champlain may have chosen to improve his access to the court of the regent was his decision to enter into marriage with the twelve-year-old Hélène Boullé. She was the daughter of Nicolas Boullé, a man charged with carrying out royal decisions at court. The marriage contract was signed on December 27, 1610 in presence of Dugua, who had dealt with the father, and the couple was married three days later. The terms of the contract called for the marriage to be consummated two years later. Champlain sought permission from her parents to consummate the marriage before that: \"Many of those who entered into such relationships, such as Samuel de Champlain (d. 1635), the first governor of French Canada, agreed that they would not have sex with a 12-year-old bride until she was 14, as Champlain did unless he consulted with her family and received their permission to do so earlier. Apparently, he did.\"\n\nChamplain's marriage was initially quite troubled, as Hélène rallied against joining him in August 1613. Their relationship, while it apparently lacked any physical connection, recovered and was apparently good for many years. Hélène lived in Quebec for several years, but returned to Paris and eventually decided to enter a convent. The couple had no children, although Champlain did adopt three Montagnais girls named Faith, Hope, and Charity in the winter of 1627–28.\n\nDuring the summer of 1609, Champlain attempted to form better relations with the local native tribes. He made alliances with the Wendat (derogatorily called \"Huron\" by the French) and with the Algonquin, the Montagnais and the Etchemin, who lived in the area of the St. Lawrence River. These tribes demanded that Champlain help them in their war against the Iroquois, who lived farther south. Champlain set off with nine French soldiers and 300 natives to explore the \"Rivière des Iroquois\" (now known as the Richelieu River), and became the first European to map Lake Champlain. Having had no encounters with the Haudenosaunee at this point many of the men headed back, leaving Champlain with only 2 Frenchmen and 60 natives.\n\nOn July 29, somewhere in the area near Ticonderoga and Crown Point, New York (historians are not sure which of these two places, but Fort Ticonderoga historians claim that it occurred near its site), Champlain and his party encountered a group of Haudenosaunee. In a battle begun the next day, two hundred and fifty Haudenosaunee advanced on Champlain's position, and one of his guides pointed out the three chiefs. In his account of the battle, Champlain recounts firing his arquebus and killing two of them with a single shot, after which one of his men killed the third. The Haudenosaunee turned and fled. This action set the tone for poor French-Iroquois relations for the rest of the century.\n\nThe Battle of Sorel occurred on June 19, 1610, with Samuel de Champlain supported by the Kingdom of France and his allies, the Wendat people, Algonquin people and Innu people against the Mohawk people in New France at present-day Sorel-Tracy, Quebec. The forces of Champlain armed with the arquebus engaged and slaughtered or captured nearly all of the Mohawks. The battle ended major hostilities with the Mohawks for twenty years.\n\nOn March 29, 1613, arriving back in New France, he first ensured that his new royal commission be proclaimed. Champlain set out on May 27 to continue his exploration of the Huron country and in hopes of finding the \"northern sea\" he had heard about (probably Hudson Bay). He traveled the Ottawa River, later giving the first description of this area. Along the way, he apparently dropped or left behind a cache of silver cups, copper kettles, and a brass astrolabe dated 1603 (Champlain's Astrolabe), which was later found by a farm boy named Edward Lee near Cobden, Ontario. It was in June that he met with Tessouat, the Algonquin chief of Allumettes Island, and offered to build the tribe a fort if they were to move from the area they occupied, with its poor soil, to the locality of the Lachine Rapids.\n\nBy August 26, Champlain was back in Saint-Malo. There, he wrote an account of his life from 1604 to 1612 and his journey up the Ottawa river, his \"Voyages\" and published another map of New France. In 1614, he formed the \"Compagnie des Marchands de Rouen et de Saint-Malo\" and \"Compagnie de Champlain\", which bound the Rouen and Saint-Malo merchants for eleven years. He returned to New France in the spring of 1615 with four Recollects in order to further religious life in the new colony. The Roman Catholic Church was eventually given \"en seigneurie\" large and valuable tracts of land, estimated at nearly 30% of all the lands granted by the French Crown in New France.\n\nChamplain continued to work to improve relations with the natives, promising to help them in their struggles against the Iroquois. With his native guides, he explored further up the Ottawa River and reached Lake Nipissing. He then followed the French River until he reached the freshwater sea he called Lac Attigouautau (now Lake Huron).\n\nIn 1615, Champlain was escorted through the area that is now Peterborough, Ontario by a group of Wendat. He used the ancient portage between Chemong Lake and Little Lake (now Chemong Road) and stayed for a short period of time near what is now Bridgenorth.\n\nOn September 1, 1615, at Cahiagué (a Wendat community on what is now called Lake Simcoe), he and the northern tribes started a military expedition against the Iroquois. The party passed Lake Ontario at its eastern tip where they hid their canoes and continued their journey by land. They followed the Oneida River until they arrived at the main Onondaga fort on October 10. The exact location of this place is still a matter of debate. Although the traditional location, Nichols Pond, is regularly disproved by professional and amateur archaeologists, many still claim that Nichols Pond is the location of the battle. south of Canastota, New York. Champlain attacked the stockaded Oneida village. He was accompanied by 10 Frenchmen and 300 Wendat. Pressured by the Huron Wendat to attack prematurely, the assault failed. Champlain was wounded twice in the leg by arrows, one in his knee. The conflict ended on October 16 when the French Wendat were forced to flee.\n\nAlthough he did not want to, the Wendat insisted that Champlain spend the winter with them. During his stay, he set off with them in their great deer hunt, during which he became lost and was forced to wander for three days living off game and sleeping under trees until he met up with a band of First Nations people by chance. He spent the rest of the winter learning \"their country, their manners, customs, modes of life\". On May 22, 1616, he left the Wendat country and returned to Quebec before heading back to France on July 2.\n\nChamplain returned to New France in 1620 and was to spend the rest of his life focusing on administration of the territory rather than exploration. Champlain spent the winter building Fort Saint-Louis on top of Cape Diamond. By mid-May, he learned that the fur trading monopoly had been handed over to another company led by the Caen brothers. After some tense negotiations, it was decided to merge the two companies under the direction of the Caens. Champlain continued to work on relations with the natives and managed to impose on them a chief of his choice. He also negotiated a peace treaty with the Iroquois.\n\nChamplain continued to work on the fortifications of what became Quebec City, laying the first stone on May 6, 1624. On August 15 he once again returned to France where he was encouraged to continue his work as well as to continue looking for a passage to China, something widely believed to exist at the time. By July 5 he was back at Quebec and continued expanding the city.\n\nIn 1627 the Caen brothers' company lost its monopoly on the fur trade, and Cardinal Richelieu (who had joined the Royal Council in 1624 and rose rapidly to a position of dominance in French politics that he would hold until his death in 1642) formed the Compagnie des Cent-Associés (the Hundred Associates) to manage the fur trade. Champlain was one of the 100 investors, and its first fleet, loaded with colonists and supplies, set sail in April 1628.\n\nChamplain had overwintered in Quebec. Supplies were low, and English merchants pillaged Cap Tourmente in early July 1628. A war had broken out between France and England, and Charles I of England had issued letters of marque that authorized the capture of French shipping and its colonies in North America. Champlain received a summons to surrender on July 10 from some heavily armed, English based Scottish merchants, the Kirke brothers. Champlain refused to deal with them, misleading them to believe that Quebec's defenses were better than they actually were (Champlain had only 50 pounds of gunpowder to defend the community). Successfully bluffed, they withdrew, but encountered and captured the French supply fleet, cutting off that year's supplies to the colony. By the spring of 1629 supplies were dangerously low and Champlain was forced to send people to Gaspé and into Indian communities to conserve rations. On July 19, the Kirke brothers arrived before Quebec after intercepting Champlain's plea for help, and Champlain was forced to surrender the colony. Many colonists were taken first to England and then to France by the Kirkes, but Champlain remained in London to begin the process of regaining the colony. A peace treaty had been signed in April 1629, three months before the surrender, and, under the terms of that treaty, Quebec and other prizes were taken by the Kirkes after the treaty was supposed to be returned. It was not until the 1632 Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye that Quebec was formally given back to France. (David Kirke was rewarded when Charles I knighted him and gave him a charter for Newfoundland.) Champlain reclaimed his role as commander of New France on behalf of Richelieu on March 1, 1633, having served in the intervening years as commander in New France \"in the absence of my Lord the Cardinal de Richelieu\" from 1629 to 1635. In 1632 Champlain published \"Voyages de la Nouvelle France\", which was dedicated to Cardinal Richelieu, and \"Traitté de la marine et du devoir d'un bon marinier\", a treatise on leadership, seamanship, and navigation. (Champlain made more than twenty-five round-trip crossings of the Atlantic in his lifetime, without losing a single ship.)\n\nChamplain returned to Quebec on May 22, 1633, after an absence of four years. Richelieu gave him a commission as Lieutenant General of New France, along with other titles and responsibilities, but not that of Governor. Despite this lack of formal status, many colonists, French merchants, and Indians treated him as if he had the title; writings survive in which he is referred to as \"our governor\". On August 18, 1634, he sent a report to Richelieu stating that he had rebuilt on the ruins of Quebec, enlarged its fortifications, and established two more habitations. One was 15 leagues upstream, and the other was at Trois-Rivières. He also began an offensive against the Iroquois, reporting that he wanted them either wiped out or \"brought to reason\".\n\nChamplain had a severe stroke in October 1635, and died on December 25, leaving no immediate heirs. Jesuit records state he died in the care of his friend and confessor Charles Lallemant.\n\nAlthough his will (drafted in November 17, 1635) gave much of his French property to his wife Hélène, he made significant bequests to the Catholic missions and to individuals in the colony of Quebec. However, Marie Camaret, a cousin on his mother's side, challenged the will in Paris and had it successfully overturned. It is unclear exactly what happened to his estate.\n\nSamuel de Champlain was temporarily buried in the church while a standalone chapel was built to hold his remains in the upper part of the city. Unfortunately, this small building, along with many others, was destroyed by a large fire in 1640. Though immediately rebuilt, no traces of it exist anymore: his exact burial site is still unknown, despite much research since about 1850, including several archaeological digs in the city. There is general agreement that the previous Champlain chapel site, and the remains of Champlain, should be somewhere near the Notre-Dame de Québec Cathedral.\n\nThe search for Champlain's remains supplies a key plot-line in the crime writer Louise Penny's 2010 novel, \"Bury Your Dead\".\n\nMany sites and landmarks have been named to honour Champlain, who remains, to this day, a prominent historical figure in many parts of Acadia, Ontario, Quebec, New York, and Vermont. They include:\n\n\n\n\nThese are works that were written by Champlain:\n\nNotes\nCitations\n\n"}
{"id": "27891886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27891886", "title": "Solar equator", "text": "Solar equator\n\nThe solar equator is the latitude on Earth at which the Sun is directly overhead; where the sun is vertically above at midday. Because of the inclination of the Earth's orbit the solar equator varies during the year, from the Tropic of Capricorn on the December solstice to the Tropic of Cancer on the June solstice. During the equinoxes, the sun is directly overhead on the equator and the sun can never be overhead areas outside of the tropics.\n"}
{"id": "26762571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26762571", "title": "Spatial Development in Cameroon", "text": "Spatial Development in Cameroon\n\nGenerally, spatial development is linked to include all the techniques used by planners, geographers and other actors of decision making to facilitate integrated balanced development. Spatial planning for development has no territorial barrier, ranging across continents, regions, nations and local communities. Various forms of spatial development qualities have been attributed mainly by the Developed World, while the Developing World and Cameroon in particular, are still trying to integrate the formula into their system. As such, to understand better spatial development in Cameroon, a brief notion of the African context is necessary.\n\nToday, programmes that promotes spatial equity in national development are being given increased attention by international agencies and governments of developing nations, including Cameroon. Industrial expansion within the metropolitan centres is now given the same priority as agricultural policies. However, the inability to build a productive spatial system that integrates urban centres and rural hinterlands into mutual networks of production and exchange has led to a growing number of poor people in the developing nations.\n\nOne of the greatest challenges facing Africa today is to upgrade sustainable development in areas where poverty and other economic problems are pronounced. The issue of environmental development needs to be enforced, especially as the world is today speaking the environmental language. It might be surprising to note that, only a few countries in Africa have concrete spatial development plans, most of them situated in the extreme South and North of the continent. Good examples are seen in the Republic of South Africa where there is a development plan at the national level called Spatial Development Initiative (SDI), presently known as, the National Spatial Development Perspective (NSDP). The main aim of these plans is to encourage integrated development within a given space defined by its economic potential rather than by political boundaries. Most of the present day spatial development policies in African countries are linked to their colonial history. That is, development plans mainly in the form of transport and infrastructure were focused along the coast and other sources of raw materials in the hinterlands. This is one of the reasons for spatial inequality in most African countries. Therefore, there is an urgent need for new approaches of spatial development to obtain equity in enhancement.\n\nSpatial development in Cameroon dates as far back as the German colonial era. The influence of the Germans through trade and commerce, created a number of trading ports which later became townships. Development plans were purely aimed at export and recruiting areas for soldiers and labourers. Townships whose growth and development could be attributed to this include amongst others, Buea, Kumba, Bamenda, Yaoundé and Douala. Apart from the above policies, the Germans used zoning and racial residential segregation as instruments of land use in the country.\n\nLike the Germans, when the British took over the Western part of Cameroon, they spent no time in establishing growth and development of settlements. Most of the government buildings were on hill tops, overlooking the remote indigenous settlements. Good examples are the GRAs (Government Residential Areas) in Limbe and Buea, and the hilltop station buildings in Bamenda, meant for high class residential only.\n\nHistory of Cameroon has made it understandable that Cameroon’s experience in spatial planning began in 1966 and span up to 1976 with the introduction of the first and second Five Year Social and Economic Development Plans. The objective was to equitably share the economic resources and fruits of economic progress. The 1961 constitutions placed the spatial planning machinery exclusively into the hands of the Presidency and the National Assembly. In his capacity as the Chief of State of the United Republic of Cameroon, the President had to define the main lines of planning in a Presidential Circular and takes the major decision. On its part, the National Assembly debates and votes on laws to approve the plans.\n\nPlanning at the national level was carried out by the Ministry of Planning and Territorial Development. Together with its various departments the ministry was responsible for planning medium and long term development. At the provincial level,the Economic service collected, centralised and handed data to the Governor and the Minister and also organised social development plans at the Provincial Planning Board. At the Divisional level, the Divisional Development Committee was chaired by the Prefect and comprised Mayors, Deputies and private individuals.\n\nRecent spatial planning and development policies in Cameroon are a legacy of its colonial history. Most of the land use plans initiated by the colonial masters have been maintained and strengthened by the country’s planning authorities. This has greatly increased the developmental gap between the colonial townships that are presently urban towns and the rural areas.\n\nCameroon cannot boast of a real National Spatial Development Plan. Most of the documents emphasising spatial development exist at the regional and local levels but are faced by problems of implementation. The country has a fashionable ‘integrated’, ‘basic need-oriented’, ‘bottom-up’ and ‘development-from-within’ regional policy programmes. In discussing such a programme and proposing elements of a modified development strategy, it can, however, be argued that even the first step of creating a basic regional development project has been far from satisfactory. Furthermore, in spite of government public speaking, no regional development policy as normally defined exists. What do exist are regional effects of development projects. This prompts the question of whether it may be preferable to replace the term ‘regional development policy’, with regional ‘project policy’.\n\nAmbe J Njoh, 1998. Colonial spatial development policies, economic instability, and urban public transportation in Cameroon. College of Arts and Sciences, University of South Florida\n\nAmbe J Njoh, 1999, The State, urban development policy and society in Cameroon. \nCollege of Arts and Sciences, University of South Florida\n\nDenis A. and Kenneth R. 1977. Local Organization for Integrated Rural Development. Implementing Equity Policy in Developing Countries. International Review of Administrative Sciences, Vol.43, No.1, 20-30.\n\nMinang A. (2003) Assessing Participatory Geographic Information System For Community Forest Planning in Cameroon: A Local Governance Perspective. International Institute for Geo-information Science and Earth Observation, Enschede. The Netherlands.\n\nNdongko.A Regional Economic Planning in Cameroon, Intereconomics, No 5, 1974, pg 154.\n\nWalter H. Rambousek 2002. Regional policy in Cameroon: The case of planning without facts Elsevier Ltd.\n\nWilfried A. Ndongko (2008) Regional economic planning in Cameroon, Intereconomics, Vol.9, No 5. May 1974, 154-157\"\n"}
{"id": "22794005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22794005", "title": "Territorial changes of the People's Republic of China", "text": "Territorial changes of the People's Republic of China\n\nSince its formation on 1 October 1949 the People's Republic of China's territorial claims have frequently been revised.\n\nUntil 1986, the total territory (or under control) of P.R.China was 10.45 million km, including:\n\nDuring the 1990s and 2000s, the official size and value of China's territory is rarely officially declared or published, partly because of the frequent and ongoing changes in their territorial claims.\n\nThe Republic of China government (on Taiwan) does not recognize the PRC's territorial changes in accordance with the 1947 constitution (although amended in 1991 to include the ROC's free area).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24474291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24474291", "title": "Tide-predicting machine", "text": "Tide-predicting machine\n\nA tide-predicting machine was a special-purpose mechanical analog computer of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, constructed and set up to predict the ebb and flow of sea tides and the irregular variations in their heights – which change in mixtures of rhythms, that never (in the aggregate) repeat themselves exactly. Its purpose was to shorten the laborious and error-prone computations of tide-prediction. Such machines usually provided predictions valid from hour to hour and day to day for a year or more ahead.\n\nThe first tide-predicting machine, designed and built in 1872-3, and followed by two larger machines on similar principles in 1876 and 1879, was conceived by Sir William Thomson (who later became Lord Kelvin). Thomson had introduced the method of harmonic analysis of tidal patterns in the 1860s and the first machine was designed by Thomson with the collaboration of Edward Roberts (assistant at the UK HM Nautical Almanac Office), and of Alexander Légé, who constructed it.\n\nIn the US, another tide-predicting machine on a different pattern (shown right) was designed by William Ferrel and built in 1881-2. Developments and improvements continued in the UK, US and Germany through the first half of the 20th century. The machines became widely used for constructing official tidal predictions for general marine navigation. They came to be regarded as of military strategic importance during World War I, and again during the Second World War, when the US No.2 Tide Predicting Machine, described below, was classified, along with the data that it produced, and used to predict tides for the D-day Normandy landings and all the island landings in the Pacific war. Military interest in such machines continued even for some time afterwards. They were made obsolete by digital electronic computers that can be programmed to carry out similar computations, but the tide-predicting machines continued in use until the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nSeveral examples of tide-predicting machines remain on display as museum pieces, occasionally put into operation for demonstration purposes, monuments to the mathematical and mechanical ingenuity of their creators.\n\nModern scientific study of tides dates back to Isaac Newton's 'Principia' of 1687, in which he applied the theory of gravitation to make a first approximation of the effects of the Moon and Sun on the Earth's tidal waters. The approximation developed by Newton and his successors of the next 90 years is known as the 'equilibrium theory' of tides.\n\nBeginning in the 1770s, Pierre-Simon Laplace made a fundamental advance on the equilibrium approximation by bringing into consideration non-equilibrium dynamical aspects of the motion of tidal waters that occurs in response to the tide-generating forces due to the Moon and Sun.\n\nLaplace's improvements in theory were substantial, but they still left prediction in an approximate state. This position changed in the 1860s when the local circumstances of tidal phenomena were more fully brought into account by William Thomson's application of Fourier analysis to the tidal motions. Thomson's work in this field was then further developed and extended by George Darwin: Darwin's work was based on the lunar theory current in his time. His symbols for the tidal harmonic constituents are still used. Darwin's harmonic developments of the tide-generating forces were later brought by A. T. Doodson up to date and extended in light of the new and more accurate lunar theory of E. W. Brown that remained current through most of the twentieth century.\n\nThe state to which the science of tide-prediction had arrived by the 1870s can be summarized: Astronomical theories of the Moon and Sun had identified the frequencies and strengths of different components of the tide-generating force. But effective prediction at any given place called for measurement of an adequate sample of local tidal observations, to show the local tidal response at those different frequencies, in amplitude and phase. Those observations had then to be analyzed, to derive the coefficients and phase angles. Then, for purposes of prediction, those local tidal constants had to be recombined, each with a different component of the tide-generating forces to which it applied, and at each of a sequence of future dates and times, and then the different elements finally collected together to obtain their aggregate effects. In the age when calculations were done by hand and brain, with pencil and paper and tables, this was recognized as an immensely laborious and error-prone undertaking.\n\nThomson recognized that what was needed was a convenient and preferably automated way to evaluate repeatedly the sum of tidal terms such as:\n\ncontaining 10, 20 or even more trigonometrical terms, so that the computation could conveniently be repeated in full for each of a very large number of different chosen values of the date/time formula_2. This was the core of the problem solved by the tide-predicting machines.\n\nThomson conceived his aim as to construct a mechanism that would evaluate this trigonometrical sum physically, e.g. as the vertical position of a pen that could then plot a curve on a moving band of paper.\nThere were several mechanisms available to him for converting rotary motion into sinusoidal motion. One of them is shown in the schematic (right). A rotating drive-wheel is fitted with an off-center peg. A shaft with a horizontally-slotted section is free to move vertically up and down. The wheel's off-center peg is located in the slot. As a result, when the peg moves around with the wheel, it can make the shaft move up and down within limits. This arrangement shows that when the drive-wheel rotates uniformly, say clockwise, the shaft moves sinusoidally up and down. The vertical position of the center of the slot, at any time formula_2, can then be expressed as\nformula_4, where formula_5 is the radial distance from the wheel's center to the peg, formula_6 is the rate at which the wheel turns (in radians per unit of time), and formula_7 is the starting phase angle of the peg, measured in radians from the 12 o'clock position to the angular position where the peg was at time zero.\n\nThis arrangement makes a physical analog of just one trigonometrical term. Thomson needed to construct a physical sum of many such terms.\n\nAt first he inclined to use gears. Then he discussed the problem with engineer Beauchamp Tower before the British Association meeting in 1872, and Tower suggested the use of a device that (as he remembered) was once used by Wheatstone. It was a chain running alternately over and under a sequence of pulleys on movable shafts. The chain was fixed at one end, and the other (free) end was weighted to keep it taut. As each shaft moved up or down it would take up or release a corresponding length of the chain. The movements in position of the free (movable) end of the chain represented the sum of the movements of the different shafts. The movable end was kept taut, and fitted with a pen and a moving band of paper on which the pen plotted a tidal curve. In some designs, the movable end of the line was connected instead to a dial and scale from which tidal heights could be read off.\nOne of Thomson's designs for the calculating part of a tide-predicting machine is shown in the figure (right), closely similar to the third machine of 1879-81. A long cord, with one end held fixed, passed vertically upwards and over a first upper pulley, then vertically downwards and under the next, and so on. These pulleys were all moved up and down by cranks, and each pulley took in or let out cord according to the direction in which it moved. These cranks were all moved by trains of wheels gearing into the wheels fixed on a drive shaft. The greatest number of teeth on any wheel was 802 engaging with another of 423. All the other wheels had comparatively small numbers of teeth. A flywheel of great inertia enabled the operator to turn the machine fast, without jerking the pulleys, and so to run off a year's curve in about twenty-five minutes. The machine shown in the figure was arranged for fifteen constituents in all.\n\nThomson acknowledged that the use of an over-and-under arrangement of the flexible line that summed the motion components was suggested to him in August 1872 by engineer Beauchamp Tower.\n\nAn online demonstration is available to show the principle of operation of a 7-component version of a tide-predicting machine otherwise like Thomson's (Kelvin's) original design. The animation shows part of the operation of the machine: the motions of several pulleys can be seen, each moving up and down to simulate one of the tidal frequencies; and the animation also shows how these sinusoidal motions were generated by wheel rotations and how they were combined to form the resulting tidal curve. Not shown in the animation is the way in which the individual motions were generated in the machine at the correct relative frequencies, by gearing in the correct ratios, or how the amplitudes and starting phase angles for each motion were set in an adjustable way. These amplitudes and starting phase angles represented the local tidal constants, separately reset, and different for each place for which predictions were to be made. Also, in the real Thomson machines, to save on motion and wear of the other parts, the shaft and pulley with the largest expected motion (for the M2 tide component at twice per lunar day) was mounted nearest to the pen, and the shaft and pulley representing the smallest component was at the other end, nearest to the point of fixing of the flexible cord or chain, to minimize unnecessary motion in the most part of the flexible cord.\n\nThe first tide predicting machine, designed in 1872 and of which a model was exhibited at the British Association meeting in 1873 (for computing 8 tidal components), followed in 1875-6 by a machine on a slightly larger scale (for computing 10 tidal components), was designed by Sir William Thomson (who later became Lord Kelvin). The 10-component machine and results obtained from it were shown at the Paris Exhibition in 1878. An enlarged and improved version of the machine, for computing 20 tidal components, was built for the Government of India in 1879, and then modified in 1881 to extend it to compute 24 harmonic components.\n\nIn these machines, the prediction was delivered in the form of a continuous graphical pen-plot of tidal height against time. The plot was marked with hour- and noon-marks, and was made by the machine on a moving band of paper as the mechanism was turned. A year's tidal predictions for a given place, usually a chosen seaport, could be plotted by the 1876 and 1879 machines in about four hours (but the drives had to be rewound during that time).\n\nIn 1881-2, another tide predicting machine, operating quite differently, was designed by William Ferrel and built in Washington under Ferrel's direction by E. G. Fischer (who later designed the successor machine described below, which was in operation at the US Coast and Geodetic Survey from 1912 until the 1960s). Ferrel's machine delivered predictions by telling the times and heights of successive high and low waters, shown by pointer-readings on dials and scales. These were read by an operator who copied the readings on to forms, to be sent to the printer of the US tide-tables.\n\nThese machines had to be set with local tidal constants special to the place for which predictions were to be made. Such numbers express the local tidal response to individual components of the global tide-generating potential, at different frequencies. This local response, shown in the timing and the height of tidal contributions at different frequencies, is a result of local and regional features of the coasts and sea-bed. The tidal constants are usually evaluated from local histories of tide-gauge observations, by harmonic analysis based on the principal tide-generating frequencies as shown by the global theory of tides and the underlying lunar theory.\n\nThomson was also responsible for originating the method of harmonic tidal analysis, and for devising a harmonic analyzer machine, which partly mechanized the evaluation of the constants from the gauge readings.\n\nDevelopment and improvement based on the experience of these early machines continued through the first half of the 20th century.\n\nBritish Tide Predictor No.2, after initial use to generate data for Indian ports, was used for tide prediction for the British empire beyond India, and transferred to the National Physical Laboratory in 1903. British Tide Predictor No.3 was sold to the French Government in 1900 and used to generate French tide tables.\n\nUS Tide Predicting Machine No. 2 (\"Old Brass Brains\") was designed in the 1890s, completed and brought into service in 1912, used for several decades including during the second World War, and retired in the 1960s.\n\nTide-predicting machines were built in Germany during World War I, and again in the period 1935-8.\n\nThree of the last to be built were: \nExcluding small portable machines, a total of 33 tide-predicting machines are known to have been built, of which 2 have been destroyed and 4 are presently lost.\n\nThey can be seen in London, Washington, Liverpool, and elsewhere, including the Deutsches Museum in Munich.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24312784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24312784", "title": "Villa Villekulla", "text": "Villa Villekulla\n\nVilla Villekulla is a fictional house that is the home of Pippi Longstocking, a character in a series of books. She lives there with her horse and monkey, Mr. Nilsson. Outside stands a tree that grows Sockerdricka, a soft drink sold in Sweden.\n\nThe house used during the TV series and some films with Inger Nilsson in the lead role was located in the locality of Vibble on the island of Gotland in Sweden. Until the 1970s, the house stood in a garden at the Gotland Regiment (P 18) south of Visby. It was then relocated to Kneippbyn and Kneippbyns Summerland about three kilometers away from where it stood during filming of Pippi Longstocking, where it remains standing to this day. The garden where the filming took place and where Villa Villekulla stood can still be seen. Today there is a Scots pine growing where it once stood.\n\n"}
{"id": "30790999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30790999", "title": "Western Lowlands", "text": "Western Lowlands\n\nThe Western Lowlands () is a physiogeographical region encompassing the western edge of Albania. It comprises the flat plains extending in the west along the Albanian Adriatic and Ionian Sea Coast that are surrounded by hills and mountains as for instance in the northeast by the Albanian Alps, in the east by the Skanderbeg Mountains, in the southeast by the Pindus Mountains and in the southwest by the Ceraunian Mountains. Nonetheless, the largest and widest plain, measured by area, is the plain of Myzeqe.\n \n"}
{"id": "22085075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22085075", "title": "Yangon City Heritage List", "text": "Yangon City Heritage List\n\nThe Yangon City Heritage List is a list of man-made landmarks in Yangon, Myanmar, so designated by the city government, Yangon City Development Committee. The list consists of 188 structures (as of 2001), and is largely made up of mostly religious structures and British colonial era buildings. The list is presented by the township in which the structures are located. In 2010, the Ministry of Culture further announced that 16 ancient pagodas in Yangon Division are recognized as cultural heritage sites, effective 10 February 2010. The Shwedagon Pagoda is recognized as both an Ancient Monument Zone and Protected and Preserved Zone. The other 15 are listed as Ancient Monument Zone.\n\n"}
