{"id": "167334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=167334", "title": "Adult", "text": "Adult\n\nBiologically, an adult is a human or other organism that has reached sexual maturity. In human context, the term \"adult\" additionally has meanings associated with social and legal concepts. In contrast to a \"minor\", a legal adult is a person who has attained the age of majority and is therefore regarded as independent, self-sufficient, and responsible. The typical age of attaining legal adulthood is 18, although definition may vary by legal rights and country.\n\nHuman adulthood encompasses psychological adult development. Definitions of adulthood are often inconsistent and contradictory; a person may be biologically an adult, and have adult behavior but still be treated as a child if they are under the legal age of majority. Conversely, one may legally be an adult but possess none of the maturity and responsibility that may define an\nadult character.\n\nIn different cultures there are events that relate passing from being a child to becoming an adult or coming of age. This often encompasses the passing a series of tests to demonstrate that a person is prepared for adulthood, or reaching a specified age, sometimes in conjunction with demonstrating preparation. Most modern societies determine legal adulthood based on reaching a legally specified age without requiring a demonstration of physical maturity or preparation for adulthood.\n\nHistorically and cross-culturally, adulthood has been determined primarily by the start of puberty (the appearance of secondary sex characteristics such as menstruation in women, ejaculation in men, and pubic hair in both sexes). In the past, a person usually moved from the status of child directly to the status of adult, often with this shift being marked by some type of coming-of-age test or ceremony.\n\nAfter the social construct of adolescence was created, adulthood split into two forms: \"biological adulthood\" and \"social adulthood.\" Thus, there are now two primary forms of adults: biological adults (people who have attained reproductive ability, are fertile, or who evidence secondary sex characteristics) and social adults (people who are recognized by their culture or law as being adults). Depending on the context, \"adult\" can indicate either definition.\n\nAlthough few or no established dictionaries provide a definition for the two word term biological adult, the first definition of adult in multiple dictionaries includes \"the stage of the life cycle of an animal after reproductive capacity has been attained\". Thus, the base definition of the word adult is the period beginning at physical sexual maturity, which occurs sometime after the onset of puberty. Although this is the primary definition of the base word \"adult\", the term is also frequently used to refer to social adults. The two-word term \"biological adult\" stresses or clarifies that the original definition, based on physical maturity, is being used.\n\nThe time of puberty varies, but usually begins around 10 or 11 years old. Girls typically begin the process of puberty at age 10 or 11, and boys at age 11 or 12. Girls generally complete puberty by 15–17, and boys by age 16 or 17. Nutrition, genetics and environment also play a part.\n\nLegally, \"adulthood\" typically means that one has reached the age of majority - when parents lose parenting rights and responsibilities regarding the person concerned. Depending on one's jurisdiction, the age of majority may or may not be set independently of and should not be confused with the minimum ages applicable to other activities, such as engaging in a contract, marriage, voting, having a job, serving in the military, buying/possessing firearms, driving, traveling abroad, involvement with alcoholic beverages, smoking, sexual activity, gambling, being a model or actor in pornography, running for President, etc. Admission of a young person to a place may be restricted because of danger for that person, concern that the place may lead the person to immoral behavior or because of the risk that the young person causes damage (for example, at an exhibition of fragile items).\n\nOne can distinguish the legality of acts of a young person, or of enabling a young person to carry out that act, by selling, renting out, showing, permitting entrance, allowing participation, etc. There may be distinction between commercially and socially enabling. Sometimes there is the requirement of supervision by a legal guardian, or just by an adult. Sometimes there is no requirement, but rather a recommendation.\n\nUsing the example of pornography, one can distinguish between:\n\nWith regard to films with violence, etc.:\n\nThe age of majority ranges internationally from ages 15 to 21, with 18 being the most common age. Niger, Mali, Democratic Republic of Congo and Cameroon define adulthood at age 15, but marriage of girls at an earlier age is common.\n\nIn most of the world, including most of the United States, India and China, the legal adult age is 18 (historically 21) for most purposes, with some notable exceptions:\n\n\nIn contrast to biological perspectives of aging and adulthood, social scientists conceptualize adulthood as socially constructed. While aging is an established biological process, the attainment of adulthood is social in its criteria. In contrast to other perspectives that conceptualize aging and the attainment of adulthood as a largely universal development, regardless of context, nation, generation, gender, race, or social class, social scientists regard these aspects as paramount in cultural definitions of adulthood.\n\nFurther evidence of adulthood as a social construction is illustrated by the changing criteria of adulthood over time. Historically, adulthood in the U.S. has rested on completing one's education, moving away from the family of origin, and beginning one's career. Other key historical criteria include entering a marriage and becoming a parent. These criteria are social and subjective; they are organized by gender, race, ethnicity, social class, among other key identity markers. As a result, particular populations feel adult earlier in the life course than do others.\n\nContemporary experiences of and research on young adults today substitute more seemingly subjective criteria for adulthood which resonate more soundly with young adults' experiences of aging. The criteria are marked by a growing \"importance of individualistic criteria and the irrelevance of the demographic markers\" of normative conceptions of adulthood.\" In particular, younger cohorts' attainment of adulthood centers on three criteria: gaining a sense of responsibility, independent decision-making, and financial independence.\n\nAccording to Jewish tradition, adulthood is reached at age 13 (the minimum age of the Bar Mitzvah or Bat Mitzvah) for Jewish boys and girls; they are expected to demonstrate preparation for adulthood by learning the Torah and other Jewish practices. The Christian Bible and Jewish scripture contain no age requirement for adulthood or marrying, which includes engaging in sexual activity\n\nThe 1983 Code of Canon Law states, \"A man before he has completed his sixteenth year of age, and likewise a woman before she has completed her fourteenth year of age, cannot enter a valid marriage\". According to \"The Disappearance of Childhood\" by Neil Postman, the Christian Church of the Middle Ages considered the age of accountability, when a person could be tried and even executed as an adult, to be age 7.\n"}
{"id": "26274346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26274346", "title": "Aggressionism", "text": "Aggressionism\n\nAggressionism is a philosophical theory that the only real cause of war is human aggressiveness. This theory has dominated much evolutionary thought about human nature.Nonetheless, many evolutionary biologists discount aggressionism as it promotes human extinction through war. However, the concept of aggressionism cannot be described as its own word, as it branches off the root word \"aggression.\" The definition being \"the action of a state in violating by force the rights of another state, particularly its territorial rights; an unprovoked offensive, attack, invasion, or the like...\" or a \"hostile or destructive mental attitude or behavior\" which leads to conflict and eventually, bloodshed.\n\nIn this particular concept, aggression occurs in all species as a form of protection of their own or of their territory in order to keep their young safe. However, though most species protect against their predators, some also protect from their own. For example, lions are very territorial and fight other grown, male lions to keep their status as the alpha. Similar to humans, if an invader attacks, human instinct leads them to defend oneself and fend them off. When necessary, for the sake of survival, most species become aggressive to get food to survive. Yet, aggressionism isn't the same as aggression. Aggressionism is the concept of aggression particularly made for humans, as it is more complex than simply wanting to survive.\n\nAggressionism specifies human nature in its hostile form when ideologies of multiple humans do not coincide with each other. However, the form of hostility that humans convey isn't direct in terms of street fights. This form of aggression directs humans in a composed manner between the leaders of nations or organizations in which leads to war. In this perspective, the hostility is contained due to the persons having respect in each other. Rather than being savage like animals, humans use their intellect to defeat their opponent in war—therefore, placing pride, greed, and belief in their own skill to lead their nation to victory. Before a war starts, there is always disagreement between the leaders. Never is there a leader raging at the other. Calmly, they would always say that it is unfortunate that the two nations disagree and would go back to their respective countries to declare war.\n\nAlthough it has been directly stated, that aggressionism is a philosophy theory that humans are the cause of war, there are more direct reasons for conflicts to escalate to war. Aggressionism is a theory that describes complex behavior of human nature that involves strong beliefs in one's own ideology. It is a description of people who cannot see the views of others and would only see their own as the only right one in the world. Throughout history, there have been a number of people who were like this and had caused war.\n\nAdolf Hitler is a primary example of a person who displayed aggressionism. In his time of reign, he installed a government that practiced fascism which is a form of statism. This type of government is a form of radical authoritarian nationalism. This type of nation is ruled by dictatorial power with overwhelming control over all the aspects of the country including the economy, society, and its beliefs. Hitler had a strong belief that the Jewish were in fact, the cause of Germany's loss in WWI causing his ideology to circulate around a hate for the Jewish people. Therefore, his aggressionism had started to take form in war through the initial invasion of Poland.\n\nJoseph Stalin is another example that also displayed aggressionism. However, Stalin's aggressionism instead was more subtle than Hitler's. Stalin believed that with his dictatorial power, he would be able to bring Russia in its time out of its famine and spread his ideology of communism towards the rest of the world. During Stalin's reign, he transformed Russia to \"an industrial and military superpower.\" He had created programs to boost the food supply and boost its economy, however this had killed millions. After WWII, the Soviet Union and the US had become superpowers and tension grew between these countries which started the Cold War. To gain advantage over the other, Stalin attempted to spread communism towards other states, countries, and nations. Thus, the subtle aggressionism. Unlike Hitler, he had helped spread his ideologies to other leaders, including China's Mao Zedong.\n\nIn both of the examples of aggressionism, there are basic natures of human beings that cause their ideologies to take form. With Hitler, he had displayed his overwhelming hate for the Jewish due to his nationalism for Germany. One of the more basic forms of emotion is hate, which was the source of his aggression towards the millions of Jewish who were killed during the Holocaust. The cause of war was due to his inhumane actions towards a specific group of people. Therefore, his unreasonable action for killing people, thinking that he has the right to do so, is one of the most lethal forms of aggression. For Stalin, he had created a country through is dictatorship with the ideology of communism. He had aggressed his beliefs upon his own people with his plans of creating a country that would be seen as a military superpower. He had caused many to die with the famine and plan to boost agriculture. However, the source for this action was due to the fact that he believed in his ideology of Marxism/Leninism.\n\n"}
{"id": "1547548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1547548", "title": "Anton Schweitzer", "text": "Anton Schweitzer\n\nAnton Schweitzer (6 June 1735 in Coburg – 23 November 1787 in Gotha) was a German composer of operas, who was affiliated with Abel Seyler's theatrical company.\n\nHe was a child prodigy who obtained the patronage of the duke of Saxe-Hildburghausen, who sent him to study with Jakob Friedrich Kleinknecht at the court of Bayreuth in 1758, and then sent him to Italy (1764–66), and made him Kapellmeister. With the dismissal of the court orchestra at Hildburghausen, he was enabled to tour Europe with the Seyler theatrical company from 1769. His most notable work is the opera \"Alceste\" (1773), with a German libretto by Christoph Martin Wieland, among the early German-language operas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37443770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37443770", "title": "Antonio Banfi", "text": "Antonio Banfi\n\nAntonio Banfi (Vimercate, 30 September 1886 – Milano, 22 July 1957) was an Italian philosopher and senator.\n\nAlthough influenced by the Marburg Neo-Kantians and Edmund Husserl, whom he knew personally, Banfi moved away from Idealism and instead focused on Marxism, in particular, historical materialism.\n\nBanfi joined the Italian Communist Party in 1947. He was elected to the Italian senate in 1948 and again in 1953.\n\n"}
{"id": "43824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43824", "title": "Assata Shakur", "text": "Assata Shakur\n\nAssata Olugbala Shakur (born JoAnne Deborah Byron; July 16, 1947, is a former member of the Black Liberation Army, who was convicted (under New Jersey's \"aiding and abetting\" statute) of the first-degree murder of State Trooper Werner Foerster during a shootout on the New Jersey Turnpike in 1973. On November 2, 1979, she escaped from prison, and in 1984, she surfaced in Cuba, where she was granted political asylum.\n\nBorn in Flushing, Queens, she grew up in New York City and Wilmington, North Carolina. After she ran away from home several times, her aunt, who would later act as one of her lawyers, took her in. She became involved in political activism at Borough of Manhattan Community College and City College of New York. After graduation, she began using the name Assata Shakur, and briefly joined the Black Panther Party. She then joined the Black Liberation Army, a loosely-knit offshoot of the Black Panthers which led an armed struggle against the US government through tactics such as robbing banks and killing police officers and drug dealers. \n\nBetween 1971 and 1973, she was charged with several crimes and was the subject of a multi-state manhunt. In May 1973, Shakur was arrested after being wounded in a shootout on the New Jersey Turnpike. Also involved in the shootout were New Jersey State Troopers Werner Foerster and James Harper and BLA members Sundiata Acoli and Zayd Malik Shakur. Harper was wounded; Zayd was killed; Foerster was killed by Acoli. Between 1973 and 1977, she was charged with murder, attempted murder, armed robbery, bank robbery, and kidnapping in relation to the shootout and six other incidents. She was acquitted on three of the charges and three were dismissed. In 1977, she was convicted of the murder of Foerster (under New Jersey law the prosecution did not need to prove that Shakur fired the shots that killed either Foerster or Zayd Shakur) and of seven other felonies related to the shootout, in a trial her supporters argue was unfair.\nWhile serving a life sentence for murder she escaped from prison in 1979.\n\nShakur has lived in Cuba since 1984, despite US government efforts to have her returned. The FBI has added her to its list of most-wanted terrorists as Joanne Deborah Chesimard.\n\nAssata Shakur was born Joanne Deborah Byron, in Flushing, Queens, New York City, on July 16, 1947. She lived for three years with her mother, school teacher Doris E. Johnson, and retired grandparents, Lula and Frank Hill. In 1950, Shakur's parents divorced and she moved with her grandparents to Wilmington, North Carolina. Shakur moved back to Queens with her mother and stepfather after elementary school, attending Parsons Junior High School. However, she still frequently visited her grandparents in the south. The family struggled financially and argued frequently; Shakur spent little time at home. She often ran away, staying with strangers and working for short periods of time, until she was taken in by her mother's sister Evelyn A. Williams, a civil rights worker, who lived in Manhattan. She has said that her aunt was the heroine of her childhood, as she was constantly introducing her to new things. She said that her aunt was \"very sophisticated and knew all kinds of things. She was right up my alley because i [sic] was forever asking all kinds of questions. I wanted to know everything.\" Williams often took her to museums, theaters, and art galleries, and the conflicts that did rise between the two were typically due to Shakur's habit of lying.\n\nShakur converted to Roman Catholicism as a child and attended the all-girls Cathedral High School, for six months before transferring to public high school, which she attended until she dropped out. Shakur is no longer Catholic. She later earned a General Educational Development (GED) with her aunt's help. Often there were few, or no other black students in her high school class. Shakur later wrote teachers seemed surprised when she answered a question in class, as if not expecting black people to be intelligent and engaged, and what she was taught a sugar-coated version of history that ignored the oppression suffered by people of color, especially in the United States. In her autobiography she later wrote: \"I didn’t know what a fool they had made out of me until I grew up and started to read real history\".\n\nShakur attended Borough of Manhattan Community College (BMCC) and then the City College of New York (CCNY) in the mid-1960s, where she was involved in many political activities, protests, and sit-ins. She was arrested for the first time—with 100 other BMCC students—in 1967, on charges of trespassing. The students had chained and locked the entrance to a college building to protest low numbers of black faculty and the absence of a black studies program. In April 1967, she married Louis Chesimard, a fellow student-activist at CCNY. The married life ended within a year; they divorced in December 1970. Shakur's marriage receives one paragraph in her memoir, she wrote that it ended over their differing views of gender roles.\n\nAfter graduation from CCNY, Shakur briefly joined the Black Panther Party (BPP). She soon left the party, disliking the macho behavior of the men and believing that the BPP lacked knowledge and understanding of United States black history. Shakur then joined the Black Liberation Army (BLA), an offshoot of the BPP whose members, inspired by the Vietcong and the Battle of Algiers, led a campaign of armed struggle against the U.S. government using tactics such as planting bombs, holding up banks and murdering drug dealers and police.\n\nShe began using the name Assata Olugbala Shakur in 1971, rejecting Joanne Chesimard as a \"slave name\". Assata is a West African name, derived from the Arabic name Aisha, said to mean \"she who struggles\", while Shakur means \"thankful one\" in Arabic. Olugbala means \"savior\" in Yoruba. She now identified as an African and felt her old name no longer fit: \"It sounded so strange when people called me Joanne. It really had nothing to do with me. I didn’t feel like no Joanne, or no negro, or no amerikan. I felt like an African woman\".\n\nOn April 6, 1971, Shakur was shot in the stomach during a struggle with a guest at the Statler Hilton Hotel in Midtown Manhattan. According to police, Shakur knocked on the door of a guest's room, asked \"Is there a party going on here?\" then displayed a revolver and demanded money. In 1987, Shakur confirmed to a journalist that there was a drug connection to this incident but refused to elaborate.\n\nShe was booked on charges of attempted robbery, felonious assault, reckless endangerment, and possession of a deadly weapon, then released on bail. Shakur is alleged to have said that she was glad that she had been shot since, afterward, she was no longer afraid to be shot again.\n\nFollowing an August 23, 1971, bank robbery in Queens, Shakur was sought for questioning. A photograph of a woman (who was later alleged to be Shakur) wearing thick-rimmed black glasses, with a high hairdo pulled tightly over her head, and pointing a gun, was widely displayed in banks. The New York Clearing House Association paid for full-page ads displaying material about Shakur. In 1987, when asked in Cuba about police allegations that the BLA funded themselves through bank robberies and theft, Shakur responded, \"There were expropriations, there were bank robberies.\"\n\nOn December 21, 1971, Shakur was named by the New York City Police Department as one of four suspects in a hand grenade attack that destroyed a police car and slightly injured two patrolmen in Maspeth, Queens; a 13-state alarm was issued three days after the attack when a witness identified Shakur and Andrew Jackson from Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) photographs. Law enforcement officials in Atlanta, Georgia said that Shakur and Jackson had lived together in Atlanta for several months in the summer of 1971.\n\nShakur was one of those wanted for questioning for wounding a police officer attempting to serve a traffic summons in Brooklyn on January 26, 1972. After an $89,000 Brooklyn bank robbery on March 1, 1972, a \"Daily News\" headline asked: \"Was that JoAnne?\"; Shakur was also wanted for questioning after a September 1, 1972, Bronx bank robbery. Based on FBI photographs, Monsignor John Powis alleged that Shakur was involved in an armed robbery at his Our Lady of the Presentation Church in Brownsville, Brooklyn, on September 14, 1972.\n\nIn 1972, Shakur became the subject of a nationwide manhunt after the FBI alleged that she led a Black Liberation Army cell that had conducted a \"series of cold-blooded murders of New York City police officers\". The FBI said these included the \"execution style murders\" of New York City Police Officers Joseph Piagentini and Waverly Jones on May 21, 1971, and NYPD officers Gregory Foster and Rocco Laurie on January 28, 1972. Shakur was alleged to have been directly involved with the Foster and Laurie murders, and involved tangentially with the Piagentini and Jones murders. In Cuba, Shakur was asked about the BLA's alleged involvement in the killings of police officers; Shakur responded that \"In reality, armed struggle historically has been used by people to liberate themselves... But the question lies in when do people use armed struggle... There were people [in the BLA] who absolutely took the position that it was just time to resist, and if black people didn't start to fight back against police brutality and didn't start to wage armed resistance, we would be annihilated.\"\n\nSome sources identify Shakur as the \"de facto\" head of the BLA after the arrest of co-founder Dhoruba Moore. Robert Daley, Deputy Commissioner of the New York City Police, for example, described Shakur as \"the final wanted fugitive, the soul of the gang, the mother hen who kept them together, kept them moving, kept them shooting\". Years later, some police officers argued that her importance in the BLA had been exaggerated by the police, with one saying that they themselves had created a \"myth\" to \"demonize\" Shakur because she was \"educated\", \"young and pretty\".\n\nAs of February 17, 1972, when Shakur was identified as one of four BLA members on a short trip to Chattanooga, Tennessee, she was wanted for questioning (along with Robert Vickers, Twyman Meyers, Samuel Cooper, and Paul Stewart) in relation to police killings, a Queens bank robbery, and the grenade attack. Shakur was announced as one of six suspects in the ambushing of four policemen—two in Jamaica, Queens, and two in Brooklyn—on January 28, 1973.\n\nBy June 1973, an apparatus that would become the FBI's Joint Terrorism Task Force (JTTF) was issuing nearly daily briefings on Shakur's status and the allegations against her.\n\nAccording to Cleaver and Katsiaficas, the FBI and local police \"initiated a national search-and-destroy mission for suspected BLA members, collaborating in stakeouts that were the products of intensive political repression and counterintelligence campaigns like NEWKILL\". They \"attempted to tie Assata to every suspected action of the BLA involving a woman\". The JTTF would later serve as the \"coordinating body in the search for Assata and the renewed campaign to smash the BLA\", after her escape from prison. After her capture, however, Shakur was not charged with any of the crimes for which she was the subject of the manhunt.\n\nShakur and others claim that she was targeted by the FBI's COINTELPRO as a result of her involvement with the black liberation organizations. Specifically, documentary evidence suggests that Shakur was targeted by an investigation named CHESROB, which \"attempted to hook former New York Panther Joanne Chesimard (Assata Shakur) to virtually every bank robbery or violent crime involving a black woman on the East Coast\". Although named after Shakur, CHESROB (like its predecessor, NEWKILL) was not limited to Shakur.\n\nOn May 2, 1973, at about 12:45 a.m., Assata Shakur, along with Zayd Malik Shakur (born James F. Costan) and Sundiata Acoli (born Clark Squire), were stopped on the New Jersey Turnpike in East Brunswick for driving with a broken tail light by State Trooper James Harper, backed up by Trooper Werner Foerster in a second patrol vehicle. The vehicle was also \"slightly\" exceeding the speed limit. Recordings of Trooper Harper calling the dispatcher were played at the trials of both Acoli and Assata Shakur. The stop occurred south of what was then the Turnpike Authority administration building. Acoli was driving the two-door vehicle, Assata Shakur was seated in the right front seat, and Zayd Shakur was in the right rear seat. Trooper Harper asked the driver for identification, noticed a discrepancy, asked him to get out of the car, and questioned him at the rear of the vehicle.\n\nIt is at this point, with the questioning of Acoli, that the accounts of the confrontation begin to differ (see the witnesses section below). However, in the ensuing shootout, Trooper Foerster was shot twice in the head with his own gun and killed, Zayd Shakur was killed, and Assata Shakur and Trooper Harper were wounded.\n\nAccording to initial police statements, at this point one or more of the suspects began firing with semiautomatic handguns and Trooper Foerster fired four times before falling mortally wounded. At Acoli's trial, Harper testified that the gunfight started \"seconds\" after Foerster arrived at the scene. At this trial, Harper said that Foerster reached into the vehicle, pulled out and held up a semi-automatic pistol and ammunition magazine, and said \"Jim, look what I found\", while facing Harper at the rear of the vehicle. At this point, Assata Shakur and Zayd Shakur were ordered to put their hands on their laps and not to move; Harper said that Assata Shakur then reached down to the right of her right leg, pulled out a pistol, and shot him in the shoulder, after which he retreated to behind his vehicle. Questioned by prosecutor C. Judson Hamlin, Harper said he saw Foerster shot just as Assata Shakur was felled by bullets from Harper's gun. Harper testified that Acoli shot Foerster with a .38 caliber semiautomatic pistol and then used Foerster's own gun to \"execute him\". According to the testimony of State Police investigators, two jammed semi-automatic pistols were discovered near Foerster's body.\nAcoli then drove the car (a white Pontiac LeMans with Vermont license plates)—which contained Assata Shakur, who was wounded, and Zayd Shakur, who was dead or dying— down the road. The vehicle was chased by three patrol cars and the booths down the turnpike were alerted. Acoli then exited the car and, after being ordered to halt by a trooper, fled into the woods as the trooper emptied his gun. Assata Shakur then walked towards the trooper with her bloodied arms raised in surrender. Acoli was captured after a 36-hour manhunt—involving 400 people, state police helicopters, and bloodhounds. Zayd Shakur's body was found in a nearby gully along the road.\n\nAccording to a New Jersey Police spokesperson, Assata Shakur was on her way to a \"new hideout in Philadelphia\" and \"heading ultimately for Washington\" and a book in the vehicle contained a list of potential BLA targets. Assata Shakur testified that she was on her way to Baltimore for a job as a bar waitress.\n\nAssata Shakur, with gunshot wounds in both arms and a shoulder, was moved to Middlesex General Hospital under \"heavy guard\" and was reported to be in \"serious condition\"; Trooper Harper was wounded in the left shoulder, in \"good\" condition, and given a protective guard at the hospital. Assata Shakur was interrogated and arraigned from her hospital bed, and her medical care during this period is often alleged to have been \"substandard\". She was transferred from Middlesex General Hospital in New Brunswick to Roosevelt Hospital in Edison after her lawyers obtained a court order from Judge John Bachman, and then transferred to Middlesex County Workhouse a few weeks later.\n\nDuring an interview, Assata Shakur talked about her treatment from the police and medical staff at Middlesex County Hospital. She stated that the police were beating and choking her and \"doing everything that they could possibly do as soon as the doctors or nurses would go outside\".\n\nBetween 1973 and 1977, in New York and New Jersey, Shakur was indicted ten times, resulting in seven different criminal trials. Shakur was charged with two bank robberies, the kidnapping of a Brooklyn heroin dealer, the attempted murder of two Queens police officers stemming from a January 23, 1973, failed ambush, and eight other felonies related to the Turnpike shootout. Of these trials, three resulted in acquittals, one in a hung jury, one in a change of venue, one in a mistrial due to pregnancy, and one in a conviction; three indictments were dismissed without trial.\n\nOn the charges related to the New Jersey Turnpike shootout, New Jersey Superior Court Judge Leon Gerofsky ordered a change of venue in 1973 from Middlesex to Morris County, New Jersey, saying \"it was almost impossible to obtain a jury here comprising people willing to accept the responsibility of impartiality so that defendants will be protected from transitory passion and prejudice.\" Polls of residents in Middlesex County, where Acoli had been convicted less than three years earlier, showed that 83% knew her identity and 70% said she was guilty.\n\nIn December 1973, Shakur was tried for a September 29, 1972, $3,700 robbery of the Manufacturer's Hanover Trust Company in the Bronx, along with co-defendant Kamau Sadiki (born Fred Hilton). In light of the pending murder prosecution against Shakur in New Jersey state court, her lawyers requested that the trial be postponed for six months to permit further preparation. Judge Lee P. Gagliardi denied a postponement, and the Second Circuit denied Shakur's petition for mandamus. In protest, the lawyers stayed mute, and Shakur and Sadiki conducted their own defense. Seven other BLA members were indicted by District Attorney Eugene Gold in connection with the series of holdups and shootings on the same day, who—according to Gold—represented the \"top echelon\" of the BLA as determined by a year-long investigation.\n\nThe prosecution's case rested largely on the testimony of two men who had pleaded guilty to participating in the holdup. The prosecution called four witnesses: Avon White and John Rivers (both of whom had already been convicted of the robbery) and the manager and teller of the bank. White and Rivers, although convicted, had not yet been sentenced for the robbery and were promised that the charges would be dropped in exchange for their testimony. White and Rivers testified that Shakur had guarded one of the doors with a .357 magnum pistol and that Sadiki had served as a lookout and drove the getaway truck during the robbery; neither White nor Rivers was cross-examined due to the defense attorney's refusal to participate in the trial. Shakur's aunt and lawyer, Evelyn Williams, was also cited for contempt after walking out of the courtroom after many of her attempted motions were denied. The trial was delayed for a few days after Shakur was diagnosed with pleurisy.\n\nDuring the trial, the defendants were escorted to a \"holding pen\" outside the courtroom several times after shouting complaints and epithets at Judge Gagliardi. While in the holding pen, they listened to the proceedings over loudspeakers. Both defendants were repeatedly cited for contempt of court and eventually barred from the courtroom, where the trial continued in their absence. A contemporary \"New York Times\" editorial criticized Williams for failing to maintain courtroom \"decorum,\" comparing her actions to William Kunstler's recent contempt conviction for his actions during the \"Chicago Seven\" trial.\n\nSadiki's lawyer, Robert Bloom, attempted to have the trial dismissed and then postponed due to new \"revelations\" regarding the credibility of White, a former co-defendant working for the prosecution. Bloom had been assigned to defend Hilton over the summer, but White was not disclosed as a government witness until right before the trial. Judge Gagliardi instructed both the prosecution and the defense not to bring up Shakur or Sadiki's connections to the BLA, saying they were \"not relevant\". Gagliardi denied requests by the jurors to pose questions to the witnesses—either directly or through him—and declined to provide the jury with information they requested about how long the defense had been given to prepare, saying it was \"none of their concern\". This trial resulted in a hung jury and then a mistrial when the jury reported to Gagliardi that they were hopelessly deadlocked for the fourth time.\n\nThe retrial was delayed for one day to give the defendants more time to prepare. The new jury selection was marked by attempts by Williams to be relieved of her duties, owing to disagreements with Shakur as well as with Hilton's attorney. Judge Arnold Bauman denied the application, but directed another lawyer, Howard Jacobs, to defend Shakur while Williams remained the attorney of record. Shakur was ejected following an argument with Williams, and Hilton left with her as jury selection continued. After the selection of twelve jurors (60 were excused), Williams was allowed to retire from the case, with Shakur officially representing herself, assisted by lawyer Florynce Kennedy. In the retrial, White testified that the six alleged robbers had saved their hair clippings to create disguises, and identified a partially obscured head and shoulder in a photo taken from a surveillance camera as Shakur's. Kennedy objected to this identification on the grounds that the prosecutor, assistant United States attorney Peter Truebner, had offered to stipulate that Shakur was not depicted in any of the photographs. Although both White and Rivers testified that Shakur was wearing overalls during the robbery, the person identified as Shakur in the photograph was wearing a jacket. The defense attempted to discredit White on the grounds that he had spent eight months in Matteawan Hospital for the Criminally Insane in 1968, and White countered that he had faked insanity (by claiming to be Allah in front of three psychiatrists) to get transferred out of prison.\n\nShakur personally cross-examined the witnesses, getting White to admit that he had once been in love with her; the same day, one juror (who had been frequently napping during the trial) was replaced with an alternate. During the retrial, the defendants repeatedly left or were thrown out of the courtroom. Both defendants were acquitted in the retrial; six jurors interviewed after the trial stated that they did not believe the two key prosecution witnesses. Shakur was immediately returned to Morristown, New Jersey, under a heavy guard following the trial. Louis Chesimard (Shakur's ex-husband) and Paul Stewart, the other two alleged robbers, had been acquitted in June.\n\nThe Turnpike shootout proceedings continued with Judge John E. Bachman in Middlesex County. The jury was chosen from Morris County, which had a far smaller black population than Middlesex County. On this basis, Shakur unsuccessfully attempted to remove the trial to federal court.\n\nBefore jury selection was complete, it was discovered that Shakur was pregnant. Due to the possibility of miscarriage, the prosecution successfully requested a mistrial for Shakur; Acoli's trial continued.\n\nShakur and four others (including Fred Hilton, Avon White, and Andrew Jackson) were indicted in the State Supreme Court in Bronx on December 31, 1973, on charges of attempting to shoot and kill two policemen—Michael O'Reilly and Roy Polliana, who were wounded but had since returned to duty—in an ambush in St. Albans, Queens on January 28, 1973. On March 5, 1974, two new defendants (Jeannette Jefferson and Robert Hayes) were named in an indictment involving the same charges. On April 26, while Shakur was pregnant, New Jersey Governor Brendan Byrne signed an extradition order to move Shakur to New York to face two counts of attempted murder, attempted assault, and possession of dangerous weapons related to the alleged ambush; however, Shakur declined to waive her right to an extradition hearing, and asked for a full hearing before Middlesex County Court Judge John E. Bachman.\n\nShakur was extradited to New York City on May 6, arraigned on May 11 (pleading innocent), and remanded to jail by Justice Albert S. McGrover of the State Supreme Court, pending a pretrial hearing on July 2. In November 1974, New York State Supreme Court Justice Peter Farrell dismissed the attempted murder indictment because of insufficient evidence, declaring \"The court can only note with disapproval that virtually a year has passed before counsel made an application for the most basic relief permitted by law, namely an attack on the sufficiency of the evidence submitted by the grand jury.\"\n\nShakur was indicted on May 30, 1974, on the charge of having robbed a Brooklyn bar and kidnapping bartender James E. Freeman for ransom. Shakur and co-defendant Ronald Myers were accused of entering the bar with pistols and shotguns, taking $50 from the register, kidnapping the bartender, leaving a note demanding a $20,000 ransom from the bar owner, and fleeing in a rented truck. Freeman was said to have later escaped unhurt. The text of Shakur's opening statement in the trial is reproduced in her autobiography. Shakur and co-defendant Ronald Myers were acquitted on December 19, 1975, after seven hours of jury deliberation, ending a three-month trial in front of Judge William Thompson.\n\nIn July 1973, after being indicted by a grand jury, Shakur pleaded not guilty in Federal Court in Brooklyn to an indictment related to a $7,700 robbery of the Bankers Trust Company bank in Queens on August 31, 1971. Judge Jacob Mishlerset set a tentative trial date of November 5 that year. The trial was delayed until 1976, when Shakur was represented by Stanley Cohen and Evelyn Williams. In this trial, Shakur acted as her own co-counsel and told the jury in her opening testimony:\n\nI have decided to act as co-counsel, and to make this opening statement, not because I have any illusions about my legal abilities, but, rather, because there are things that I must say to you. I have spent many days and nights behind bars thinking about this trial, this outrage. And in my own mind, only someone who has been so intimately a victim of this madness as I have can do justice to what I have to say.\nOne bank employee testified that Shakur was one of the bank robbers, but three other bank employees (including two tellers) testified that they were uncertain. The prosecution showed surveillance photos of four of the six alleged robbers, contending that one of them was Shakur wearing a wig. Shakur was forcibly subdued and photographed by the FBI on the judge's order, after having refused to cooperate, believing that the FBI would use photo manipulation; a subsequent judge determined that the manners in which the photos were obtained violated Shakur's rights and ruled the new photos inadmissible. In her autobiography, Shakur recounts being beaten, choked, and kicked on the courtroom floor by five marshals, as Williams narrated the events to ensure they would appear on the court record. Shortly after deliberation began, the jury asked to see all the photographic exhibits taken from the surveillance footage. The jury determined that a widely circulated FBI photo allegedly showing Shakur participating in the robbery was not her.\n\nShakur was acquitted after seven hours of jury deliberation on January 16, 1976, and was immediately remanded back to New Jersey for the Turnpike trial. The actual transfer took place on January 29. She was the only one of the six suspects in the robbery to be brought to trial. Andrew Jackson and two others indicted for the same robbery pleaded guilty; Jackson was sentenced to five years in prison and five years' probation; another was shot and killed in a gunfight in Florida on December 31, 1971, and the last remained at large at the time of Shakur's acquittal.\n\nBy the time she was retried in 1977, Acoli had already been convicted of shooting and murdering Foerster. The prosecution argued that Assata had fired the bullets that had wounded Harper, while the defense argued that the now deceased Zayd had fired them. Based on New Jersey law, if Shakur's presence at the scene could be considered as \"aiding and abetting\" the murder of Foerster, she could be convicted even if she had not fired the bullets which had killed him.\n\nA total of 289 articles had been published in the local press relating to the various crimes with which Shakur had been accused. Shakur again attempted to remove the trial to federal court. The United States District Court for the District of New Jersey denied the petition and also denied Shakur an injunction against the holding of trial proceedings on Fridays (the Muslim Sabbath). An en banc panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit affirmed.\n\nThe nine-week trial was widely publicized, and was even reported on by the Telegraph Agency of the Soviet Union (TASS). During the trial, hundreds of civil rights campaigners demonstrated outside of the Middlesex County courthouse each day.\n\nFollowing the 13-minute opening statement by Edward J. Barone, the first assistant Middlesex County prosecutor (directing the case for the state), William Kunstler (the chief of Shakur's defense staff) moved immediately for a mistrial, calling the eight-count grand jury indictment \"adversary proceeding solely and exclusively under the control of the prosecutor\", whom Kunstler accused of \"improper prejudicial remarks\"; Judge Theodore Appleby, noting the frequent defense interruptions that had characterized the previous days' jury selection, denied the motion.\n\nOn February 23, Shakur's attorneys filed papers asking Judge Appleby to subpoena FBI Director Clarence Kelley, Senator Frank Church and other federal and New York law enforcement officials to testify about the Counter Intelligence Program, which they alleged was designed to harass and disrupt black activist organizations. Kunstler had previously been successful in subpoenaing Kelley and Church for the trials of American Indian Movement (AIM) members charged with murdering FBI agents. The motion (argued March 2)—which also asked the court to require the production of memos, tapes, documents, and photographs of alleged COINTELPRO involvement from 1970 to 1973—was denied.\n\nShakur herself was called as a witness on March 15, the first witness called by the defense; she denied shooting either Harper or Foerster, and also denied handling a weapon during the incident. She was questioned by her own attorney, Stuart Ball, for under 40 minutes, and then cross-examined by Barone for less than two hours (see the Witnesses section below). Ball's questioning ended with the following exchange:\nOn that night of May 2[n]d, did you shoot, kill, execute or have anything to do with the death of Trooper Werner Foerster?\n\nNo.\n\nDid you shoot or assault Trooper James Harper?\n\nNo.\nUnder cross-examination, Shakur was unable to explain how three magazines of ammunition and 16 live shells had gotten into her shoulder bag; she also admitted to knowing that Zayd Shakur carried a gun at times, and specifically to seeing a gun sticking out of Acoli's pocket while stopping for supper at a Howard Johnson's restaurant shortly before the shooting. Shakur admitted to carrying an identification card with the name \"Justine Henderson\" in her billfold the night of the shootout, but denied using any of the aliases on the long list that Barone proceeded to read.\n\nShakur's defense attorneys were William Kunstler (the chief of Shakur's defense staff), Stuart Ball, Robert Bloom, Raymond A. Brown, Stanley Cohen (who died of unknown causes early on in the Turnpike trial), Lennox Hinds, Florynce Kennedy, Louis Myers, Laurence Stern, and Evelyn Williams, Shakur's aunt. Of these attorneys, Kunstler, Ball, Cohen, Myers, Stern and Williams appeared in court for the turnpike trial. Kunstler became involved in Shakur's trials in 1975, when contacted by Williams, and commuted from New York City to New Brunswick every day with Stern.\n\nHer attorneys, in particular Lennox Hinds, were often held in contempt of court, which the National Conference of Black Lawyers cited as an example of systemic bias in the judicial system. The New Jersey Legal Ethics Committee also investigated complaints against Hinds for comparing Shakur's murder trial to \"legalized lynching\" undertaken by a \"kangaroo court\". Hinds' disciplinary proceeding reached the U.S. Supreme Court in \"Middlesex County Ethics Committee v. Garden State Bar Ass'n\" (1982). According to Kunstler's autobiography, the sizable contingent of New Jersey State Troopers guarding the courthouse were under strict orders from their commander, Col. Clinton Pagano, to completely shun Shakur's defense attorneys.\n\nJudge Appleby also threatened Kunstler with dismissal and contempt of court after he delivered an October 21, 1976 speech at nearby Rutgers University that in part discussed the upcoming trial, but later ruled that Kunstler could represent Shakur. Until obtaining a court order, Williams was forced to strip naked and undergo a body search before each visit with Shakur—during which Shakur was shackled to a bed by both ankles. Judge Appleby also refused to investigate a burglary of her defense counsel's office that resulted in the disappearance of trial documents, amounting to half of the legal papers related to her case. Her lawyers also claimed that their offices were bugged.\n\nSundiata Acoli, Assata Shakur, Trooper Harper, and a New Jersey Turnpike driver who saw part of the incident were the only surviving witnesses. Acoli did not testify or make any pre-trial statements, nor did he testify in his own trial or give a statement to the police. The driver traveling north on the turnpike testified that he had seen a State Trooper struggling with a Black man between a white vehicle and a State Trooper car, whose revolving lights illuminated the area.\n\nShakur testified that Trooper Harper shot her after she raised her arms to comply with his demand. She said that the second shot hit her in the back as she turned to avoid it, and that she fell onto the road for the duration of the gunfight before crawling back into the backseat of the Pontiac—which Acoli drove down the road and parked. She testified that she remained there until State Troopers dragged her onto the road.\n\nTrooper Harper's official reports state that after he stopped the Pontiac, he ordered Acoli to the back of the vehicle for Trooper Foerster—who had arrived on the scene—to examine his driver's license. The reports then state that after Acoli complied, and as Harper was looking inside the vehicle to examine the registration, Trooper Foerster yelled and held up an ammunition magazine as Shakur simultaneously reached into her red pocketbook, pulled out a nine-millimeter weapon and fired at him. Trooper Harper's reports then state that he ran to the rear of his car and shot at Shakur who had exited the vehicle and was firing from a crouched position next to the vehicle.\n\nA total of 408 potential jurors were questioned during the \"voir dire\", which concluded on February 14. All of the 15 jurors—ten women and five men—were white, and most were under thirty years old. Five jurors had personal ties to State Troopers (one girlfriend, two nephews, and two friends). A sixteenth female juror was removed before the trial formally opened, when it was determined that Sheriff Joseph DeMarino of Middlesex County, while a private detective several years earlier, had worked for a lawyer who represented the juror's husband. Judge Appleby repeatedly denied Kunstler's requests for DeMarino to be removed from his responsibilities for the duration of the trial \"because he did not divulge his association with the juror\".\n\nOne prospective juror was dismissed for reading \"Target Blue\", a book by Robert Daley, a former New York City Deputy Police Commander, which dealt in part with Shakur and had been left in the jury assembly room. Before the jury entered the courtroom, Judge Appleby ordered Shakur's lawyers to remove a copy of \"\" by Alex Haley from a position on the defense counsel table easily visible to jurors. The \"Roots\" TV miniseries adapted from the book and shown shortly before the trial was believed to have evoked feelings of \"guilt and sympathy\" with many white viewers.\n\nShakur's attorneys sought a new trial on the grounds that one jury member, John McGovern, had violated the jury's sequestration order. Judge Appleby rejected Kunstler's claim that the juror had violated the order. McGovern later sued Kunstler for defamation; Kunstler eventually publicly apologized to McGovern and paid him a small settlement. Additionally, in his autobiography, Kunstler alleged that he later learned from a law enforcement agent that a New Jersey State Assembly member had addressed the jury at the hotel where they were sequestered, urging them to convict Shakur.\n\nA key element of Shakur's defense was medical testimony meant to demonstrate that she was shot with her hands up and that she would have been subsequently unable to fire a weapon. A neurologist testified that the median nerve in Shakur's right arm was severed by the second bullet, making her unable to pull a trigger. Neurosurgeon Dr. Arthur Turner Davidson, Associate Professor of Surgery at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, testified that the wounds in her upper arms, armpit and chest, and severed median nerve that instantly paralyzed her right arm, would only have been caused if both arms were raised, and that to sustain such injuries while crouching and firing a weapon (as described in Trooper Harper's testimony) \"would be anatomically impossible\".\n\nDavidson based his testimony on an August 4, 1976, examination of Shakur and on X-rays taken immediately after the shootout at Middlesex General Hospital. Prosecutor Barone questioned whether Davidson was qualified to make such a judgment 39 months after the injury; Barone proceeded to suggest (while a female Sheriff's attendant acted out his suggestion) that Shakur was struck in the right arm and collar bone and \"then spun around by the impact of the bullet so an immediate second shot entered the fleshy part of her upper left arm\" to which Davidson replied \"Impossible.\"\n\nDr. David Spain, a pathologist from Brookdale Community College, testified that her bullet scars as well as X-rays supported her claim that her arms were raised, and that there was \"no conceivable way\" the first bullet could have hit Shakur's clavicle if her arm was down.\n\nJudge Appleby eventually cut off funds for any further expert defense testimony. Shakur, in her autobiography, and Williams, in \"Inadmissible Evidence\", both claim that it was difficult to find expert witnesses for the trial, because of the expense and because most forensic and ballistic specialists declined on the grounds of a conflict of interest when approached because they routinely performed such work for law enforcement officials.\n\nAccording to Angela Davis, neutron activation analysis that was administered after the shootout showed no gunpowder residue on Shakur's fingers and forensic analysis performed at the Trenton, New Jersey, crime lab and the FBI crime labs in Washington, D.C. did not find her fingerprints on any weapon at the scene. According to tape recordings and police reports made several hours after the shoot-out, when Harper returned on foot to the administration building 200 yards (183 m) away, he did not report Foerster's presence at the scene; no one at headquarters knew of Foerster's involvement in the shoot-out until his body was discovered beside his patrol car, more than an hour later.\n\nOn March 24, the jurors listened for 45 minutes to a rereading of testimony of the State Police chemist regarding the blood found at the scene, on the LeMans, and Shakur's clothing. That night, the second night of jury deliberation, the jury asked Judge Appleby to repeat his instructions regarding the four assault charges 30 minutes before retiring for the night, which led to speculation that the jury had decided in Shakur's favor on the remaining charges, especially the two counts of murder. Appleby reiterated that the jury must consider separately the four assault charges (atrocious assault and battery, assault on a police officer acting in the line of duty, assault with a deadly weapon, and assault with intent to kill), each of which carried a total maximum penalty of 33 years in prison. The other charges were: first-degree murder (of Foerster), second-degree murder (of Zayd Shakur), illegal possession of a weapon, and armed robbery (related to Foerster's service revolver). The jury also asked Appleby to repeat the definitions of \"intent\" and \"reasonable doubt\".\n\nShakur was convicted on all eight counts: two murder charges, and six assault charges. The prosecution did not need to prove that Shakur fired the shots that killed either Trooper Foerster or Zayd Shakur: being an accomplice to murder carries an equivalent life sentence under New Jersey law. Upon hearing the verdict, Shakur said—in a \"barely audible voice\"—that she was \"ashamed that I have even taken part in this trial\" and that the jury was \"racist\" and had \"convicted a woman with her hands up\". Judge Appleby told the court attendants to \"remove the prisoner\" and Shakur replied: \"the prisoner will walk away on her own feet\". After Joseph W. Lewis, the jury foreman, read the verdict, Kunstler asked that the jury be removed before alleging that one juror had violated the sequestration order (see above).\n\nAt the post-trial press conference, Kunstler blamed the verdict on racism, stating that \"the white element was there to destroy her\". When asked by a reporter why, if that were the case, it took the jury 24 hours to reach a verdict, Kunstler replied, \"That was just a pretense.\" A few minutes later the prosecutor Barone disagreed with Kunstler's assessment saying the trial's outcome was decided \"completely on the facts\".\n\nAt Shakur's sentencing hearing on April 25, Appleby sentenced her to 26 to 33 years in state prison (10 to 12 for the four counts of assault, 12 to 15 for robbery, 2 to 3 for armed robbery, plus 2 to 3 for aiding and abetting the murder of Foerster), to be served consecutively with her mandatory life sentence. However, Appleby dismissed the second-degree murder of Zayd Shakur, as the New Jersey Supreme Court had recently narrowed the application of the law. Appleby finally sentenced Shakur to 30 days in the Middlesex County Workhouse for contempt of court, concurrent with the other sentences, for refusing to rise when he entered the courtroom. To become eligible for parole, Shakur would have had to serve a minimum of 25 years, which would have included her four years in custody during the trials.\n\nIn October 1977, New York State Superior Court Justice John Starkey dismissed murder and robbery charges against Shakur related to the death of Richard Nelson during a hold-up of a Brooklyn social club on December 28, 1972, ruling that the state had delayed too long in bringing her to trial. Judge Starkey said, \"People have constitutional rights, and you can't shuffle them around.\" The case was delayed in being brought to trial as a result of an agreement between the governors of New York and New Jersey as to the priority of the various charges against Shakur. Three other defendants were indicted in relation to the same holdup: Melvin Kearney, who died in 1976 from an eight-floor fall while trying to escape from the Brooklyn House of Detention, Twymon Myers, who was killed by police while a fugitive, and Andrew Jackson, the charges against whom were dismissed when two prosecution witnesses could not identify him in a lineup.\n\nOn November 22, 1977, Shakur pleaded not guilty to an attempted armed robbery indictment stemming from the 1971 incident at the Statler Hilton Hotel. Shakur was accused of attempting to rob a Michigan man staying at the hotel of $250 of cash and personal property. The prosecutor was C. Richard Gibbons. The charges were dismissed without trial.\n\nAfter the Turnpike shootings, Shakur was briefly held at the Garden State Youth Correctional Facility in Yardville, Burlington County, New Jersey and later moved to Rikers Island Correctional Institution for Women in New York City where she was kept in solitary confinement for 21 months. Shakur's only daughter, Kakuya Shakur, was conceived during her trial and born on September 11, 1974, in the \"fortified psychiatric ward\" at Elmhurst General Hospital in Queens, where Shakur stayed for a few days before being returned to Rikers Island. In her autobiography, Shakur claims that she was beaten and restrained by several large female officers after refusing a medical exam from a prison doctor shortly after giving birth. \nAfter a bomb threat was made against Judge Appleby, Sheriff Joseph DeMarino lied to the press about the exact date of her transfer to Clinton Correctional Facility for Women; He later claimed the threat to be the cause of his falsification. She was also transferred from the Clinton Correctional Facility for Women to a special area staffed by women guards at the Garden State Youth Correctional Facility, where she was the only female inmate, for \"security reasons\". When Kunstler first took on Shakur's case (before meeting her), he described her basement cell as \"adequate\", which nearly resulted in his dismissal as her attorney. On May 6, 1977, Judge Clarkson Fisher, of the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, denied Shakur's request for an injunction requiring her transfer from the all-male facility to Clinton Correctional Facility for Women; the Third Circuit affirmed.\n\nOn April 8, 1978, Shakur was transferred to Alderson Federal Prison Camp in Alderson, West Virginia where she met Puerto Rican nationalist Lolita Lebrón and Mary Alice, a Catholic nun, who introduced Shakur to the concept of liberation theology. At Alderson, Shakur was housed in the Maximum Security Unit, which also contained several members of the Aryan Sisterhood as well as Sandra Good and Lynette \"Squeaky\" Fromme, followers of Charles Manson.\n\nOn March 31, 1978, after the Maximum Security Unit at Alderson was closed, Shakur was transferred to the Clinton Correctional Facility for Women in New Jersey. According to her attorney Lennox Hinds, Shakur \"understates the awfulness of the condition in which she was incarcerated\", which included vaginal and anal searches. Hinds argues that \"in the history of New Jersey, no woman pretrial detainee or prisoner has ever been treated as she was, continuously confined in a men's prison, under twenty-four-hour surveillance of her most intimate functions, without intellectual sustenance, adequate medical attention, and exercise, and without the company of other women for all the years she was in custody\".\n\nShakur was identified as a political prisoner as early as October 8, 1973, by Angela Davis, and in an April 3, 1977, \"New York Times\" advertisement purchased by the \"Easter Coalition for Human Rights\". An international panel of seven jurists were invited by Hinds to tour a number of U.S. prisons, and concluded in a report filed with the United Nations Commission on Human Rights that the conditions of her solitary confinement were \"totally unbefitting any prisoner\". Their investigation, which focused on alleged human rights abuses of political prisoners, cited Shakur as \"one of the worst cases\" of such abuses and including her in \"a class of victims of FBI misconduct through the COINTELPRO strategy and other forms of illegal government conduct who as political activists have been selectively targeted for provocation, false arrests, entrapment, fabrication of evidence, and spurious criminal prosecutions\". Amnesty International, however, did not regard Shakur as a former political prisoner.\n\nIn early 1979, \"the Family\", a group of BLA members, began to plan Shakur's escape from prison. They financed this by stealing $105,000 from a Bamberger's store in Paramus, New Jersey. On November 2, 1979, Shakur escaped the Clinton Correctional Facility for Women in New Jersey, when three members of the Black Liberation Army visiting her drew concealed .45-caliber pistols and a stick of dynamite, seized two guards as hostages, commandeered a van and escaped. No one was injured during the prison break, including the guards held as hostages who were left in a parking lot. According to later court testimony, Shakur lived in Pittsburgh until August 1980, when she flew to the Bahamas. Mutulu Shakur, Silvia Baraldini, Sekou Odinga, and Marilyn Buck were charged with assisting in her escape; Ronald Boyd Hill was also held on charges related to the escape. In part for his role in the event, Mutulu was named on July 23, 1982, as the 380th addition to the FBI's Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list, where he remained for the next four years until his capture in 1986. State correction officials disclosed in November 1979 that they had not run identity checks on Shakur's visitors and that the three men and one woman who assisted in her escape had presented false identification to enter the prison's visitor room, before which they were not searched. Mutulu Shakur and Marilyn Buck were convicted in 1988 of several robberies as well as the prison escape.\nAt the time of the escape, Kunstler had just started to prepare her appeal. After her escape, Shakur lived as a fugitive for several years. The FBI circulated wanted posters throughout the New York – New Jersey area; her supporters hung \"Assata Shakur is Welcome Here\" posters in response. In New York, three days after her escape, more than 5,000 demonstrators organized by the National Black Human Rights Coalition carried signs with the same slogan. At the rally, a statement from Shakur was circulated condemning U.S. prison conditions and calling for an independent \"New Afrikan\" state.\n\nFor years after Shakur's escape, the movements, activities and phone calls of her friends and relatives—including her daughter walking to school in upper Manhattan—were monitored by investigators in an attempt to ascertain her whereabouts. In July 1980, FBI director William Webster said that the search for Shakur had been frustrated by residents' refusal to cooperate, and a \"New York Times\" editorial opined that the department's commitment to \"enforce the law with vigor—but also with sensitivity for civil rights and civil liberties\" had been \"clouded\" by an \"apparently crude sweep\" through a Harlem building in search of Shakur. In particular, one pre-dawn April 20, 1980, raid on 92 Morningside Avenue, during which FBI agents armed with shotguns and machine guns broke down doors and searched through the building for several hours while preventing residents from leaving, was seen by residents as having \"racist overtones\". In October 1980, New Jersey and New York City Police denied published reports that they had declined to raid a Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn building where Shakur was suspected to be hiding for fear of provoking a racial incident. Since her escape, Shakur has been charged with unlawful flight to avoid imprisonment.\n\nShakur was in Cuba by 1984; in that year she was granted political asylum there. The Cuban government paid approximately $13 a day toward her living expenses. In 1985, her daughter, Kakuya, who had been raised by Shakur's mother in New York, came to live with her. In 1987, her presence in Cuba became widely known when she agreed to be interviewed by \"Newsday\".\n\nIn an open letter, Shakur has called Cuba \"One of the Largest, Most Resistant and Most Courageous \"Palenques\" (Maroon Camps) that has ever existed on the Face of this Planet\". She has praised Fidel Castro as a \"hero of the oppressed\" and referred to herself as a \"20th century escaped slave\". Shakur is also known to have worked as an English-language editor for Radio Havana Cuba.\n\nIn 1987, she published \"\", which was written in Cuba. Her autobiography has been cited in relation to critical legal studies and critical race theory. The book does not give a detailed account of her involvement in the BLA or the events on the New Jersey Turnpike, except to say that the jury \"[c]onvicted a woman with her hands up!\" It gives an account of her life beginning with her youth in the South and New York. Shakur challenges traditional styles of literary autobiography and offers a perspective on her life that is not easily accessible to the public. The book was published by Lawrence Hill & Company in the United States and Canada but the copyright is held by Zed Books Ltd. of London due to \"Son of Sam\" laws, which restrict who can receive profits from a book. In the six months preceding the publications of the book, Evelyn Williams, Shakur's aunt and attorney, made several trips to Cuba and served as a go-between with Hill. Her autobiography was republished in Britain in 2014 and a dramatized version performed on BBC Radio 4 in July 2017.\n\nIn 1993, she published a second book, \"Still Black, Still Strong\", with Dhoruba bin Wahad and Mumia Abu-Jamal.\n\nIn 2005, SUNY Press released \"The New Abolitionists\" \"(Neo)Slave Narratives and Contemporary Prison Writings,\" edited and with an added introduction by Joy James, in which Shakur's \"Women in Prison: How We Are 1978\" is featured. \n\nIn 1997, Carl Williams, the superintendent of the New Jersey State Police, wrote a letter to Pope John Paul II asking him to raise the issue of Shakur's extradition during his talks with President Fidel Castro. During the pope's visit to Cuba in 1998, Shakur agreed to an interview with NBC journalist Ralph Penza. Shakur later published an extensive criticism of the NBC segment, which inter-spliced footage of Trooper Foerster's grieving widow with an FBI photo connected to a bank robbery of which Shakur had been acquitted. On March 10, 1998 New Jersey Governor Christine Todd Whitman asked Attorney General Janet Reno to do whatever it would take to return Shakur from Cuba. Later in 1998, U.S. media widely reported claims that the United States State Department had offered to lift the Cuban embargo in exchange for the return of 90 U.S. fugitives, including Shakur.\n\nThe United States Congress passed a non-binding resolution in September 1998, asking Cuba for the return of Shakur as well as 90 fugitives believed by Congress to be residing in Cuba; House Concurrent Resolution 254 passed 371–0 in the House and by unanimous consent in the Senate. The Resolution was due in no small part to the lobbying efforts of Governor Whitman and New Jersey Representative Bob Franks. Before the passage of the Resolution, Franks stated: \"This escaped murderer now lives a comfortable life in Cuba and has launched a public relations campaign in which she attempts to portray herself as an innocent victim rather than a cold-blooded murderer.\"\n\nIn an open letter to Castro, chair of the Congressional Black Caucus Representative Maxine Waters of California later explained that many members of the Caucus (including herself) were against Shakur's extradition but had mistakenly voted for the bill, which was placed on the accelerated suspension calendar, generally reserved for non-controversial legislation. In the letter, Waters explained her opposition, calling COINTELPRO \"illegal, clandestine political persecution\".\n\nOn May 2, 2005, the 32nd anniversary of the Turnpike shootings, the FBI classified her as a domestic terrorist, increasing the reward for assistance in her capture to $1 million, the largest reward placed on an individual in the history of New Jersey. New Jersey State Police superintendent Rick Fuentes said \"she is now 120 pounds of money.\" The bounty announcement reportedly caused Shakur to \"drop out of sight\" after having previously lived relatively openly (including having her home telephone number listed in her local telephone directory).\n\nNew York City Councilman Charles Barron, a former Black Panther, has called for the bounty to be rescinded. The New Jersey State Police and Federal Bureau of Investigation each still have an agent officially assigned to her case. Calls for Shakur's extradition increased following Fidel Castro's transfer of presidential duties; in a May 2005 television address, Castro had called Shakur a victim of racial persecution, saying \"they wanted to portray her as a terrorist, something that was an injustice, a brutality, an infamous lie.\" In 2013, the FBI announced it had added Shakur to its list of 'most wanted terrorists', the first time that a woman was so designated. The reward for her capture and return was also doubled to $2 million.\n\nIn June 2017, President Donald Trump gave a speech \"cancelling\" the Cuban thaw policies of his predecessor Barack Obama. A condition of making a new deal between the United States and Cuba is the release of political prisoners and the return of fugitives from justice. Trump specifically called for the return of \"the cop–killer Joanne Chesimard\".\n\nA documentary film about Shakur, \"Eyes of the Rainbow\", written and directed by Cuban filmmaker Gloria Rolando, appeared in 1997. The official premiere of the film in Havana in 2004 was promoted by Casa de las Américas, the main cultural forum of the Cuban government. \"Assata aka Joanne Chesimard\" is a 2008 biographical film directed by Fred Baker. The film premiered at the San Diego Black Film Festival and starred Assata Shakur herself. The National Conference of Black Lawyers and Mos Def are among the professional organizations and entertainers to support Assata Shakur; the \"Hands Off Assata\" campaign is organized by dream hampton.\n\nNumerous musicians have composed and recorded songs about her or dedicated to her:\n\nOn December 12, 2006, the Chancellor of the City University of New York, Matthew Goldstein, directed City College's president, Gregory H. Williams, to remove the \"unauthorized and inappropriate\" designation of the \"Guillermo Morales/Assata Shakur Community and Student Center,\" which was named by students in 1989. A student group won the right to use the lounge after a campus shutdown over proposed tuition increases. CUNY was sued by student and alumni groups after removing the plaque. As of April 7, 2010, the presiding judge has ruled that the issues of students' free speech and administrators' immunity from suit \"deserve a trial\".\n\nFollowing controversy, in 1995, Borough of Manhattan Community College renamed a scholarship that had previously been named for Shakur. In 2008, a Bucknell University professor included Shakur in a course on \"African-American heroes\"—along with figures such as Harriet Tubman, Sojourner Truth, John Henry, Malcolm X, and Angela Davis. Her autobiography is studied together with those of Angela Davis and Elaine Brown, the only women activists of the Black Power movement who have published book-length autobiographies. Rutgers University professor H. Bruce Franklin, who excerpts Shakur's book in a class on 'Crime and Punishment in American Literature,' describes her as a \"revolutionary fighter against imperialism\".\n\nBlack NJ State Trooper Anthony Reed (who has left the force) sued the police force because, among other things, persons had hung posters of Shakur, altered to include Reed's badge number, in a Newark barracks. He felt it was intended to insult him, as she had killed an officer, and was \"racist in nature\". According to Dylan Rodriguez, to many \"U.S. radicals and revolutionaries\" Shakur represents a \"venerated (if sometimes fetishized) signification of liberatory desire and possibility\".\n\nThe largely Internet-based \"Hands Off Assata!\" campaign is coordinated by Chicago-area Black Radical Congress activists.\n\nIn 2015, New Jersey's Kean University dropped hip-hop artist Common as a commencement speaker because of police complaints. Members of the State Troopers Fraternal Association of New Jersey expressed their anger over Common's \"A Song For Assata\".\n\nIn 2015, Black Lives Matter co-founder Alicia Garza writes: \"When I use Assata’s powerful demand in my organizing work, I always begin by sharing where it comes from, sharing about Assata’s significance to the Black Liberation Movement, what its political purpose and message is, and why it’s important in our context.\"\n\nThe Chicago Black activist group Assata's Daughters is named in her honor. In April 2017, former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick's foundation donated $25,000 to the group.\nIn July 2017, the Women's March official Twitter feed celebrated Shakur's birthday, leading to criticism from some media outlets.\n\nIn April 2018, a North Carolina court ordered that payment of $15,000 be made to Shakur's representative, her sister Beverly Goins, as part of a land deal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "536739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536739", "title": "Avempace", "text": "Avempace\n\nAvempace ( – 1138) is the Latinate form of Ibn Bâjja (), full name Abû Bakr Muḥammad Ibn Yaḥyà ibn aṣ-Ṣâ’igh at-Tûjîbî Ibn Bâjja al-Tujibi (), was an Arab Andalusian polymath: his writings include works regarding astronomy, physics, and music, as well as philosophy, medicine, botany, and poetry.\n\nHe was the author of the \"Kitab al-Nabat\" (\"The Book of Plants\"), a popular work on botany, which defined the sex of plants.\nHis philosophic ideas had a clear effect on Ibn Rushd (Averroes) and Albertus Magnus. Most of his writings and book were not completed (or well-organized) because of his early death. He had a vast knowledge of medicine, mathematics and astronomy. His main contribution to Islamic philosophy was his idea on soul phenomenology, which was never completed.\n\nAvempace was, in his time, not only a prominent figure of philosophy but also of music and poetry. His diwan (Arabic: collection of poetry) was rediscovered in 1951.\n\nThough many of his works have not survived, his theories on astronomy and physics were preserved by Maimonides and Averroes respectively, which influenced later astronomers and physicists in the Islamic civilization and Renaissance Europe, including Galileo Galilei.\n\nAvempace wrote one of the first, if not the first, commentary on Aristotle in the western world. While his work on projectile motion was never translated from arabic to latin, his views became well known around the western world and western philosophers, astronomers, and scientists of all nature. His works had major impacts on medieval thought at the time, his work even came to influence Galileo and his work. The views that Avempace wrote that become prominent on projectile motion are found in the text known as \"Text 71\". \n\nThe Ibn Bajja crater on the Moon is named in his honor.\n\nAvempace was born in Zaragoza in what is today Aragon, Spain, around 1085 and died in Fes, Morocco, in 1138. He worked as vizir for Abu Bakr ibn Ibrahim Ibn Tîfilwît, the Almoravid governor of Zaragoza. Avempace also wrote poems (panegyrics and muwashshahat) for him. Avempace joined in poetic competitions with the poet al-Tutili. After the fall of Zaragoza, Avempace looked for shelter from Yahyà ibn Yûsuf Ibn Tashufin, another brother of the Almoravid Sultan Yusuf Ibn Tashufin (died 1143) in Morocco. He worked, for some twenty years, as the vizir of Yahyà ibn Yûsuf Ibn Tashufin. Under Ibn Tashfin, the Sultan of the Berber Moroccan Almoravid empire, Avempace was imprisoned twice, but the details of the imprisonment are not well understood. Despite being unwelcomed, Avempace remained with the Almoravid empire for the rest of his life until his death in 1138. There has been evidence presented that brings up the argument that the cause of Avempace's death was by poison from his peers. However, it is unclear if he really was and who would have done it. Among his many teachers was Abu Jafar ibn Harun of Trujillo, a physician in Seville, Al-Andalus.\n\nIbn Bajjah, also known as Avempace, was an important Islamic philosopher, among his many other trades. Islamic philosophy, post-hellenic world, was mainly divided into two opposing branches of thoughts. The Eastern branch, which was led by Ibn Sina, known as Avicenna in latin, and the Western branch, which was led by Ibn Bajjah. Avempace's work in philosophy is seen as uneven and mostly incomplete, but what parts of his work that survive to this day demonstrates originality in his thought process. His main philosophical work is the unfinished ethics-politico treatise \"Governance of the Solitary.\"\n\nFrom his writings, Ibn Bajjah has been shown to taken a liking to Plato's contribution to philosophy. Ibn Bajjah, in particular, takes from Plato's idea of the necessary connection between man and city with a bit of a twist. Plato's idea was to model the perfect city after the human soul. On the other hand, Avempace wanted to use the perfect city as a model for the human soul. Avempace imagines the perfect city as a place that is free of any beliefs or opinions that are in opposition of the truth and where true science reigns supreme. Any man or idea that contradicts these true beliefs are defined as \"weeds.\" Weeds are only to be found in imperfect cities.\n\nAvempace also wrote on the health of a perfect man. He eluded to the idea that the perfect man does not just require physical health, but spiritual health too. Avempace goes into more detail about the soul, which he describes of having both an acquired intellect, as well as an active intellect. The active intellect has no basis coming from the physical world. Acquired intellect, however, is a result of experiences from the material world.\n\nFor Avempace, the highest form of spiritual happiness comes from science. Science allows for the truth to be discovered. As a result, in order to be spiritually healthy and, therefore, happy, we must obtain knowledge and search for the truth.\n\nDespite all the ideas that have been presented by Avempace, a central theory was never actually developed. He attributed this to being a very busy man and having his hands in a variety of a fields.\n\nIn Islamic astronomy, Maimonides wrote the following on the planetary model proposed by Avempace:\n\nIn his commentary on Aristotle's \"Meteorology\", Avempace presented his own theory on the Milky Way galaxy. Aristotle believed the Milky Way to be caused by \"the ignition of the fiery exhalation of some stars which were large, numerous and close together\" and that the \"ignition takes place in the upper part of the atmosphere, in the region of the world which is continuous with the heavenly motions.\" On the other hand, Aristotle's Arabic commentator Ibn al-Bitriq considered \"the Milky Way to be a phenomenon exclusively of the heavenly spheres, not of the upper part of the atmosphere\" and that the \"light of those stars makes a visible patch because they are so close.\" Avempace's view differed from both, as he considered \"the Milky Way to be a phenomenon both of the spheres above the moon and of the sublunar region.\" The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy describes his theory and observation on the Milky Way as follows:\n\nAvempace also reported observing \"two planets as black spots on the face of the Sun.\" In the 13th century, the Maragha astronomer Qotb al-Din Shirazi identified this observation as the transit of Venus and Mercury. However, Avempace cannot have observed a Venus transit, as there were no Venus transits in his lifetime.\n\nAverroes was another important philosopher, and while he was born shortly before Avempace's death, Averroes later in life would be in opposition to Avempace's theories the majority of the time. Avempace starts with a good kinematic definition of motion and construes it as a force. According to Avempace regarding freely falling objects, what is moved the a heavy body falls, is the heavy body and what moves it downward is its 'gravity' or its 'form' or 'nature'. \n\nText 71 of Averroes' commentary on Aristotle's \"Physics\" contains a discussion on Avempace's theory of motion, as well as the following quotation from the seventh book of Avempace's lost work on physics:\n\nAverroes writes the following comments on Avempace's theory of motion:\n\nWhat follows is also found in Text 71: “This resistance offered to the moving body by the medium does not occur in the way Aristotle has established in the fourth book when he discussed the void. The velocity of a body is not inversely proportional to the density of the medium, but it is the retardation the motion is subject to by virtue of the medium, which is proportional to the density. If what Aristotle said was true, natural motion in a supposed void would not meet any resistance and it would not take time but be instantaneous. Also, the motion of the heavenly spheres, which do not traverse a medium, would occur instantaneously. We see these motions occurring with different finite velocities: the motion of the fixed stars is very slow; the daily motion is very fast. These differences in velocity are due to the fact that the movers of the spheres differ in nobility and the more noble a mover, the faster is the motion of the sphere moved by it.”In relation to the example of the stone falling through the mediums air and water, Avempace also brings up an example of dust particles to explain his ideas on natural movements. Dust particles are suspended in the air and naturally fall slowly. Despite having enough power to go down, it is still insufficient to displace the air underneath it\n\nFrom Text 71; Ernest A. Moody who is a notable philosopher, medievalist, and logician, offered four main reasons in favor of the view that Avempace was at least a major thinker within the paradigm of the \"Theory of an 'impressed force' \". The following points are cited from his argument:1. \"For Avempace...V = P - M, so that when M = 0, V = P. This opposes Aristotle's (supposed use of) V = P / M.\" 2. \"Internal coherence with this \"law of motion\" requires, Moody believes, also a defense of the theory of an impressed force - as we find for exampled in Philopponus himself.\" 3. \"Avempace's appeal to an 'impressed force' was also reflected in the fact that 'if we use modern terms, it might be said that the force of gravity, for Avempace, is not determined essentially as a relation between the masses of different bodies, but is conceived as an absolute indwelling power of self-motion animating the body like a soul.\" 4. \"The theory of an 'impressed force' appears to have been upheld by Al-Bitrogi, who was influenced ins ideas by Avempace's disciple Ibn-Tofail.\"Despite diverging from Aristotle's theory of motion, it appears that Avempace largely agrees with Aristotle's ideas on projectile motion. While there is no known account that lay's out Avempace's ideas over this topic, Avempace gives a short explanation in his commentary of Aristotelian Physics book 8. An interesting piece by Avempace on the theory of projectile motion comes from his example involving a magnet and iron filaments. Magnets present a problem with Aristotle's theory on projectile motion because nothing can be seen physically moving the iron. Avempace, however, believes that a magnet is more complicated than one might think. He presents the idea that the magnet actually moves the air which, in return, moves the iron.\n\nThe central theory of the mover and the moved can be seen not only in his work in physics, but also in his work in Philosophy.\n\nAvempace was a critic of Ptolemy and he worked on creating a new theory of velocity to replace the one theorized by Aristotle. Two future philosophers supported the theories Avempace created, known as the Avempacean dynamics. These philosophers were Thomas Aquinas, a catholic priest, and John Duns Scotus. Galileo went on and adopted Avempace's formula and talked about \"that the velocity of a given object is the difference of the motive power of that object and the resistance of the medium of motion\" in the Pisan dialogue.\n\nRecently, the web page \"Webislam\" of Spanish converts to Islam, reported that the score of the \"Nuba al-Istihlál\" of Avempace (11th century), arranged by Omar Metiou and Eduardo Paniagua, are very similar to Marcha Granadera (18th century) is now the official anthem of Spain. That makes it the world's oldest song (about a thousand years old) used for the official anthem of a country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1356552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1356552", "title": "Black-Body Theory and the Quantum Discontinuity, 1894-1912", "text": "Black-Body Theory and the Quantum Discontinuity, 1894-1912\n\nBlack-Body Theory and the Quantum Discontinuity, 1894-1912 (1978; second edition 1987) is a book by the philosopher Thomas Kuhn, in which the author surveys the development of quantum mechanics. The second edition has a new afterword.\n\nKuhn surveys the development of quantum mechanics by Max Planck at the end of the 19th century. He argues that Planck misread his own earlier work.\n\nAlexander Bird describes Kuhn's book as \"masterly\", writing that it \"differs from traditional history of science less in the kind of explanation offered and more in the vast erudition and scholarly attention to detail displayed.\"\n\nAccording to philosopher Tim Maudlin, \"Planck and the Black Body Discontinuity\" (sic) \"is a mixed bag: some good historiography and some poor analysis.\"\n"}
{"id": "1830732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830732", "title": "Béla Hamvas", "text": "Béla Hamvas\n\nBéla Hamvas (23 March 1897 – 7 November 1968) was a Hungarian writer, philosopher, and social critic. He was the first thinker to introduce the Traditionalist School of René Guénon to Hungary.\n\nBéla Hamvas was born on 23 March 1897 in Eperjes (Prešov), in the Sáros County of the Kingdom of Hungary (present-day Slovakia). His father, József Hamvas was a Lutheran pastor, teacher of German and Hungarian, journalist and writer. The family moved to Pozsony (Bratislava) in 1898, where Hamvas completed his basic studies in 1915. After graduation, like his classmates, he entered voluntary military service and was sent to the front in Ukraine. He was sent back to Budapest for hospital treatment due to severe traumatic shock, but just after recovery, he was drafted to the front line in western Italy. He never reached the battlefield, as his train was hit by a shell, wounding Hamvas, who was discharged.\nIn 1919 his father refused to take an oath of allegiance to Czechoslovakia, whereupon his family was expelled from Bratislava. They moved to Budapest, where Hamvas attended Péter Pázmány University. After graduation he became a journalist at the newspapers \"Budapesti Hírlap\" and \"Szózat\". Hamvas considered this job shallow and humiliating, but he had to support his family (his father received a pension from 1924). Three years later he quit, as he had found a better job in the main library of Budapest. He was appointed as a senior librarian in 1927. By this time he was writing articles, reviews and essays for 25 different journals. He married Ilona Angyal in 1929, but divorced in 1936 to marry Katalin Kemény in 1937. She was his partner in founding the Sziget circle, a literary group which later gained prominent members like Antal Szerb, Károly Kerényi, László Németh, or Antal Molnár.\n\nNearly 20 years of library work was ended by World War II. Hamvas was drafted for military service three times. He continued his literary work while on the front lines - translating Laozi and Heraclitus among others. His first essay collection was published in 1943.\n\nThe couple survived the siege of Budapest. Their apartment was hit by bombing, destroying his library and manuscripts. Despite the Soviet siege and repeated harassment by the authorities, 1945 to 1947 were his most fruitful years.\n\nIn 1948 he was placed on the b-list (banned from publishing) by the Soviet installed socialist government, and was forced into retirement from his library job. Although he had published more than 250 works before his ban, most of Hamvas's body of work was written anonymously later on. He got a licence to farm in the garden of his brother-in-law in Szentendre, and tended plants there between 1948 and 1951, during which time he also completed \"Karnevál\", one of his major essays.\n\nBetween 1951 and 1964 he was employed as an unskilled worker in power plants in Tiszapalkonya, Inota and Bokod, under harsh conditions. Whenever he had spare time he translated from Sanskrit, Hebrew and Greek, and wrote about the Cabala, Zen, and Sufism. Between 1959 and 1966 he completed \"Patmosz\", his last major work.\n\nAged 67, he finally received a pension. Béla Hamvas died of a hemorrhagic stroke in 1968. He is buried in Szentendre.\n\nIn 1990 he posthumously received the Kossuth Prize.\n\nHe was a great thinker and essayist who integrated Eastern and Western traditions as well as posing many serious questions about the modern age, together with the possibility of resolving them. According to one of his central thoughts: \"The present eon, since 600 B.C. stands in the sign of personal salvation. Only since this time is there a notion of humanity, because there is only one single collective category of personality and this is humanity.\"\n\nBéla Hamvas found his form of expression in the essay, a genre at once literary and philosophical. His early essays were published in \"Magyar Hüperion\" (1936, \"Hungarian Hyperion\"), marking the end of his first period of thinking, to be followed by \"Szellem és egzisztencia\" (1941, \"Spirit and Existence\"), an essay discussing the philosophy of Karl Jaspers, one of the main inspirations for Hamvas’ thinking. He published a selection of essays on literature, psychology, philosophy and cultural history in \"A láthatatlan történet\" (1943, \"The Invisible Story\"). Analyzing the spiritual crisis of the age, Hamvas read himself into the metaphysical tradition, the collective spiritual knowledge of humanity conveyed by sacred books. His collection \"Scientia Sacra\" (the first six volumes, 1942–43) served to direct the attention of the age towards the philosophy of the Far East (The Upanishads, Tao Te King, The Tibetan Book of the Dead and others) and European mysticism. From 1945 Hamvas belonged to the spiritual renaissance for three years, during which time he edited the series Leaflets of the University Press, held lectures and published the metaphysical \"Anthologia humana: Ötezer év bölcsessége\" (1946, \"Human Anthology – The Wisdom of Five Millennia\"), the fourth edition of which was banned and pulped by the socialist regime. His essays written together with his wife on the history of art \"Forradalom a művészetben: Absztrakció és szürrealizmus Magyarországon\" (1947, \"Revolution in Art: Abstraction and Surrealism in Hungary\") survey Hungarian art from Károly Ferenczy, Tivadar Csontváry Kosztka and Lajos Gulácsy up to the activity of the “European School”. Hamvas saw in surrealism and abstract art the heritage of magic, the “tremendous presence of a higher existence”, and opposed “realistic” art. This concept of modern art was attacked by the Marxist ideologist, György Lukács, and Hamvas was dismissed from the library and silenced for the rest of his life. His writings were published in samizdat.\n\nHis essays are grounded in tradition, their sense of humour is granted by knowledge, and humour, in turn, grants their freedom. \"Unicornis, Titkos Jegyzőkönyv, Silentium\" (1948–51, \"Unicorn, Secret Protocol, Silence\") were published as late as 1987, but were written alongside Hamvas’s great novel, \"Karnevál\" (1948–51, \"Carnival\", published in 1985). This Magnum Opus, also called a “catalogue of fate”, a “human comedy”, spans continents and ages, Heaven and Hell. Hamvas’ three shorter novels, \"Szilveszter\" (1957, \"New Year’s Eve\"), \"Bizonyos tekintetben\" (1961, \"From a Certain Aspect\") and \"Ugyanis\" (1966–67, \"Therefore\") were published together in 1991, followed by his collection of essays, \"Patmosz\" (1959–1966; \"Patmos\") in 1992, whose title alludes to John the Apostle’s exile to the island of Patmos, and the second part of \"Scientia Sacra: az őskori emberiség szellemi hagyománya II. rész: A kereszténység\" (1960–64, \"Sacred Science – Spiritual Heritage of Mankind, part II. Christianity\") published in 1988.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58891372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58891372", "title": "Christopher Cordner", "text": "Christopher Cordner\n\nChristopher Donald Cordner (born December 30, 1949) is an Australian philosopher and Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of Melbourne.\nHe is known for his expertise on ethics.\nCordner is a recipient of Rhodes Scholarship (1972).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19544151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19544151", "title": "Claude Lévi-Strauss", "text": "Claude Lévi-Strauss\n\nClaude Lévi-Strauss (; ; 28 November 1908, Brussels – 30 October 2009, Paris) was a French anthropologist and ethnologist whose work was key in the development of the theory of structuralism and structural anthropology. He held the chair of Social Anthropology at the Collège de France between 1959 and 1982 and was elected a member of the Académie française in 1973. He received numerous honors from universities and institutions throughout the world and has been called, alongside James George Frazer and Franz Boas, the \"father of modern anthropology\".\n\nLévi-Strauss argued that the \"savage\" mind had the same structures as the \"civilized\" mind and that human characteristics are the same everywhere. These observations culminated in his famous book \"Tristes Tropiques\" that established his position as one of the central figures in the structuralist school of thought. As well as sociology, his ideas reached into many fields in the humanities, including philosophy. Structuralism has been defined as \"the search for the underlying patterns of thought in all forms of human activity.\"\n\nClaude Lévi-Strauss was born to French Jewish parents who were living in Brussels at the time, where his father was working as a portrait painter. He grew up in Paris, living on a street of the upscale 16th arrondissement named after the artist Claude Lorrain, whose work he admired and later wrote about. During the First World War, he lived with his maternal grandfather, who was the rabbi of the synagogue of Versailles. He attended the Lycée Janson de Sailly and the Lycée Condorcet.\n\nAt the Sorbonne in Paris, Lévi-Strauss studied law and philosophy. He did not pursue his study of law, but passed the agrégation in philosophy in 1931. In 1935, after a few years of secondary-school teaching, he took up a last-minute offer to be part of a French cultural mission to Brazil in which he would serve as a visiting professor of sociology at the University of São Paulo while his then wife, Dina, served as a visiting professor of ethnology.\n\nThe couple lived and did their anthropological work in Brazil from 1935 to 1939. During this time, while he was a visiting professor of sociology, Claude undertook his only ethnographic fieldwork. He accompanied Dina, a trained ethnographer in her own right, who was also a visiting professor at the University of São Paulo, where they conducted research forays into the Mato Grosso and the Amazon Rainforest. They first studied the Guaycuru and Bororó Indian tribes, staying among them for a few days. In 1938, they returned for a second, more than half-year-long expedition to study the Nambikwara and Tupi-Kawahib societies. At this time, his wife suffered an eye infection that prevented her from completing the study, which he concluded. This experience cemented Lévi-Strauss's professional identity as an anthropologist. Edmund Leach suggests, from Lévi-Strauss's own accounts in \"Tristes Tropiques\", that he could not have spent more than a few weeks in any one place and was never able to converse easily with any of his native informants in their native language, which is uncharacteristic of anthropological research methods of participatory interaction with subjects to gain a full understanding of a culture.\n\nIn the 1980s, he suggested why he became vegetarian in pieces published in Italian daily newspaper \"La Repubblica\" and other publications anthologized in the posthumous book \"Nous sommes tous des cannibales\" (2013): \"A day will come when the thought that to feed themselves, men of the past raised and massacred living beings and complacently exposed their shredded flesh in displays shall no doubt inspire the same repulsion as that of the travellers of the 16th and 17th century facing cannibal meals of savage American primitives in America, Oceania or Africa.\"\n\nClaude Lévi-Strauss was an atheist.\n\nLévi-Strauss returned to France in 1939 to take part in the war effort, and was assigned as a liaison agent to the Maginot Line. After the French capitulation in 1940, he was employed at a \"lycée\" in Montpellier, but then was dismissed under the Vichy racial laws. (Lévi-Strauss's family, originally from Alsace, was of Jewish ancestry.) By the same laws, he was denaturalized (stripped of French citizenship). Around that time, his first wife and he separated. She stayed behind and worked in the French resistance, while he managed to escape Vichy France by boat to Martinique, from where he was finally able to continue traveling. In 1941, he was offered a position at the New School for Social Research in New York City and granted admission to the United States. A series of voyages brought him, via South America, to Puerto Rico, where he was investigated by the FBI after German letters in his luggage aroused the suspicions of customs agents. Lévi-Strauss spent most of the war in New York City. Along with Jacques Maritain, Henri Focillon, and Roman Jakobson, he was a founding member of the École Libre des Hautes Études, a sort of university-in-exile for French academics.\n\nThe war years in New York were formative for Lévi-Strauss in several ways. His relationship with Jakobson helped shape his theoretical outlook (Jakobson and Lévi-Strauss are considered to be two of the central figures on which structuralist thought is based). In addition, Lévi-Strauss was also exposed to the American anthropology espoused by Franz Boas, who taught at Columbia University. In 1942, while having dinner at the Faculty House at Columbia, Boas died of a heart attack in Lévi-Strauss's arms. This intimate association with Boas gave his early work a distinctive American inclination that helped facilitate its acceptance in the U.S. After a brief stint from 1946 to 1947 as a cultural attaché to the French embassy in Washington, DC, Lévi-Strauss returned to Paris in 1948. At this time, he received his state doctorate from the Sorbonne by submitting, in the French tradition, both a \"major\" and a \"minor\" doctoral thesis. These were \"The Family and Social Life of the Nambikwara Indians\" (\"La vie familiale et sociale des indiens Nambikwara\") and \"The Elementary Structures of Kinship\" (\"Les structures élémentaires de la parenté\").\n\n\"The Elementary Structures of Kinship\" was published the next year and quickly came to be regarded as one of the most important anthropological works on kinship. It was even reviewed favorably by Simone de Beauvoir, who viewed it as an important statement of the position of women in non-Western cultures. A play on the title of Durkheim's famous \"Elementary Forms of the Religious Life\", \"Elementary Structures\" re-examined how people organized their families by examining the logical structures that underlay relationships rather than their contents. While British anthropologists such as Alfred Reginald Radcliffe-Brown argued that kinship was based on descent from a common ancestor, Lévi-Strauss argued that kinship was based on the alliance between two families that formed when women from one group married men from another.\n\nThroughout the late 1940s and early 1950s, Lévi-Strauss continued to publish and experienced considerable professional success. On his return to France, he became involved with the administration of the CNRS and the Musée de l'Homme before finally becoming professor (\"directeur d'études\") of the fifth section of the École Pratique des Hautes Études, the 'Religious Sciences' section where Marcel Mauss was previously professor, the title of which chair he renamed \"Comparative Religion of Non-Literate Peoples\".\n\nWhile Lévi-Strauss was well known in academic circles, in 1955 he became one of France's best known intellectuals by publishing \"Tristes Tropiques\" in Paris that year by Plon (and translated into English in 1973, published by Penguin). Essentially, this book was a memoir detailing his time as a French expatriate throughout the 1930s, and his travels. Lévi-Strauss combined exquisitely beautiful prose, dazzling philosophical meditation, and ethnographic analysis of the Amazonian peoples to produce a masterpiece. The organizers of the Prix Goncourt, for instance, lamented that they were not able to award Lévi-Strauss the prize because \"Tristes Tropiques\" was nonfiction.\n\nLévi-Strauss was named to a chair in social anthropology at the Collège de France in 1959. At roughly the same time he published \"Structural Anthropology\", a collection of his essays which provided both examples and programmatic statements about structuralism. At the same time as he was laying the groundwork for an intellectual program, he began a series of institutions to establish anthropology as a discipline in France, including the Laboratory for Social Anthropology where new students could be trained, and a new journal, \"l'Homme\", for publishing the results of their research.\n\nIn 1962, Lévi-Strauss published what is for many people his most important work, \"La Pensée Sauvage\", translated into English as \"The Savage Mind\". The French title is an untranslatable pun because the word \"pensée\" means both \"thought\" and \"pansy\", while \"sauvage\" has a range of meanings different from English \"savage\". Lévi-Strauss supposedly suggested that the English title be \"Pansies for Thought\", borrowing from a speech by Ophelia in Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\" (ACT IV, Scene V). French editions of \"La Pensée Sauvage\" are often printed with an image of wild pansies on the cover.\n\n\"The Savage Mind\" discusses not just \"primitive\" thought, a category defined by previous anthropologists, but also forms of thought common to all human beings. The first half of the book lays out Lévi-Strauss's theory of culture and mind, while the second half expands this account into a theory of history and social change. This latter part of the book engaged Lévi-Strauss in a heated debate with Jean-Paul Sartre over the nature of human freedom. On the one hand, Sartre's existentialist philosophy committed him to a position that human beings fundamentally were free to act as they pleased. On the other hand, Sartre also was a leftist who was committed to ideas such as that individuals were constrained by the ideologies imposed on them by the powerful. Lévi-Strauss presented his structuralist notion of agency in opposition to Sartre. Echoes of this debate between structuralism and existentialism eventually inspired the work of younger authors such as Pierre Bourdieu.\n\nNow a worldwide celebrity, Lévi-Strauss spent the second half of the 1960s working on his master project, a four-volume study called \"Mythologiques\". In it, he followed a single myth from the tip of South America and all of its variations from group to group north through Central America and eventually into the Arctic Circle, thus tracing the myth's cultural evolution from one end of the Western Hemisphere to the other. He accomplished this in a typically structuralist way, examining the underlying structure of relationships among the elements of the story rather than by focusing on the content of the story itself. While \"Pensée Sauvage\" was a statement of Lévi-Strauss's big-picture theory, \"Mythologiques\" was an extended, four-volume example of analysis. Richly detailed and extremely long, it is less widely read than the much shorter and more accessible \"Pensée Sauvage\", despite its position as Lévi-Strauss's masterwork.\nLévi-Strauss completed the final volume of \"Mythologiques\" in 1971. On 14 May 1973, he was elected to the Académie française, France's highest honour for a writer. He was a member of other notable academies worldwide, including the American Academy of Arts and Letters. In 1956, he became foreign member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences. He received the Erasmus Prize in 1973, the Meister-Eckhart-Prize for philosophy in 2003, and several honorary doctorates from universities such as Oxford, Harvard, Yale, and Columbia. He also was the recipient of the Grand-croix de la Légion d'honneur, was a Commandeur de l'ordre national du Mérite, and Commandeur des Arts et des Lettres. In 2005, he received the XVII Premi Internacional Catalunya (Generalitat of Catalonia). After his retirement, he continued to publish occasional meditations on art, music, philosophy, and poetry.\n\nIn 2008, he became the first member of the Académie française to reach the age of 100 and one of the few living authors to have his works published in the Bibliothèque de la Pléiade. On the death of Maurice Druon on 14 April 2009, he became the Dean of the \"Académie\", its longest-serving member.\n\nHe died on 30 October 2009, a few weeks before his 101st birthday. The death was announced four days later.\n\nFrench President Nicolas Sarkozy described him as \"one of the greatest ethnologists of all time\". Bernard Kouchner, the French Foreign Minister, said Lévi-Strauss \"broke with an ethnocentric vision of history and humanity ... At a time when we are trying to give meaning to globalisation, to build a fairer and more humane world, I would like Claude Lévi-Strauss's universal echo to resonate more strongly\". In a similar vein, a statement by Lévi-Strauss was broadcast on National Public Radio in the remembrance produced by \"All Things Considered\" on November 3, 2009: \"There is today a frightful disappearance of living species, be they plants or animals. And it's clear that the density of human beings has become so great, if I can say so, that they have begun to poison themselves. And the world in which I am finishing my existence is no longer a world that I like.\" \"The Daily Telegraph\" said in its obituary that Lévi-Strauss was \"one of the dominating postwar influences in French intellectual life and the leading exponent of Structuralism in the social sciences\". Permanent secretary of the Académie française Hélène Carrère d'Encausse said: \"He was a thinker, a philosopher ... We will not find another like him\".\n\nLévi-Strauss sought to apply the structural linguistics of Ferdinand de Saussure to anthropology. At the time, the family was traditionally considered the fundamental object of analysis, but was seen primarily as a self-contained unit consisting of a husband, a wife, and their children. Nephews, cousins, aunts, uncles, and grandparents all were treated as secondary. Lévi-Strauss argued that, however, akin to Saussure's notion of linguistic value, families acquire determinate identities only through relations with one another. Thus he inverted the classical view of anthropology, putting the secondary family members first and insisting on analyzing the relations between units instead of the units themselves.\n\nIn his own analysis of the formation of the identities that arise through marriages between tribes, Lévi-Strauss noted that the relation between the uncle and the nephew was to the relation between brother and sister, as the relation between father and son is to that between husband and wife, that is, A is to B as C is to D. Therefore, if we know A, B, and C, we can predict D, just as if we know A and D, we can predict B and C. The goal of Lévi-Strauss's structural anthropology, then, was to simplify the masses of empirical data into generalized, comprehensible relations between units, which allow for predictive laws to be identified, such as A is to B as C is to D.\n\nSimilarly, Lévi-Strauss identified myths as a type of speech through which a language could be discovered. His work is a structuralist theory of mythology which attempted to explain how seemingly fantastical and arbitrary tales could be so similar across cultures. Because he believed there was not one \"authentic\" version of a myth, rather that they were all manifestations of the same language, he sought to find the fundamental units of myth, namely, the mytheme. Lévi-Strauss broke each of the versions of a myth down into a series of sentences, consisting of a relation between a function and a subject. Sentences with the same function were given the same number and bundled together. These are mythemes.\n\nWhat Lévi-Strauss believed he had discovered when he examined the relations between mythemes was that a myth consists of juxtaposed binary oppositions. Oedipus, for example, consists of the overrating of blood relations and the underrating of blood relations, the autochthonous origin of humans and the denial of their autochthonous origin. Influenced by Hegel, Lévi-Strauss believed that the human mind thinks fundamentally in these binary oppositions and their unification (the thesis, antithesis, synthesis triad), and that these are what make meaning possible. Furthermore, he considered the job of myth to be a sleight of hand, an association of an irreconcilable binary opposition with a reconcilable binary opposition, creating the illusion, or belief, that the former had been resolved.\n\nLévi-Strauss's theory is set forth in \"Structural Anthropology\" (1958). Briefly, he considers culture a system of symbolic communication, to be investigated with methods that others have used more narrowly in the discussion of novels, political speeches, sports, and movies.\n\nHis reasoning makes best sense when contrasted against the background of an earlier generation's social theory. He wrote about this relationship for decades.\n\nA preference for \"functionalist\" explanations dominated the social sciences from the turn of the twentieth century through the 1950s, which is to say that anthropologists and sociologists tried to state the purpose of a social act or institution. The existence of a thing was explained, if it fulfilled a function. The only strong alternative to that kind of analysis was historical explanation, accounting for the existence of a social fact by stating how it came to be.\n\nThe idea of social function developed in two different ways, however. The English anthropologist Alfred Reginald Radcliffe-Brown, who had read and admired the work of the French sociologist Émile Durkheim, argued that the goal of anthropological research was to find the collective function, such as what a religious creed or a set of rules about marriage did for the social order as a whole. Behind this approach was an old idea, the view that civilization developed through a series of phases from the primitive to the modern, everywhere in the same manner. All of the activities in a given kind of society would partake of the same character; some sort of internal logic would cause one level of culture to evolve into the next. On this view, a society can easily be thought of as an organism, the parts functioning together as do the parts of a body.\n\nIn contrast, the more influential functionalism of Bronisław Malinowski described the satisfaction of individual needs, what a person derived by participating in a custom.\n\nIn the United States, where the shape of anthropology was set by the German-educated Franz Boas, the preference was for historical accounts. This approach had obvious problems, which Lévi-Strauss praises Boas for facing squarely.\n\nHistorical information seldom is available for non-literate cultures. The anthropologist fills in with comparisons to other cultures and is forced to rely on theories that have no evidential basis, the old notion of universal stages of development or the claim that cultural resemblances are based on some unrecognized past contact between groups. Boas came to believe that no overall pattern in social development could be proven; for him, there was no single history, only histories.\n\nThere are three broad choices involved in the divergence of these schools–each had to decide what kind of evidence to use; whether to emphasize the particulars of a single culture or look for patterns underlying all societies; and what the source of any underlying patterns might be, the definition of a common humanity.\n\nSocial scientists in all traditions relied on cross-cultural studies. It always was necessary to supplement information about a society with information about others. So some idea of a common human nature was implicit in each approach.\n\nThe critical distinction, then, remained: does a social fact exist because it is functional for the social order, or because it is functional for the person? Do uniformities across cultures occur because of organizational needs that must be met everywhere, or because of the uniform needs of human personality?\n\nFor Lévi-Strauss, the choice was for the demands of the social order. He had no difficulty bringing out the inconsistencies and triviality of individualistic accounts. Malinowski said, for example, that magic beliefs come into being when people need to feel a sense of control over events when the outcome was uncertain. In the Trobriand Islands, he found the proof of this claim in the rites surrounding abortions and weaving skirts. But in the same tribes, there is no magic attached to making clay pots even though it is no more certain a business than weaving. So, the explanation is not consistent. Furthermore, these explanations tend to be used in an ad hoc, superficial way–one postulates a trait of personality when needed.\n\nBut the accepted way of discussing organizational function didn't work either. Different societies might have institutions that were similar in many obvious ways and yet, served different functions. Many tribal cultures divide the tribe into two groups and have elaborate rules about how the two groups may interact. But exactly what they may do–trade, intermarry–is different in different tribes; for that matter, so are the criteria for distinguishing the groups.\n\nNor will it do to say that dividing-in-two is a universal need of organizations, because there are a lot of tribes that thrive without it.\n\nFor Lévi-Strauss, the methods of linguistics became a model for all his earlier examinations of society. His analogies usually are from phonology (though also later from music, mathematics, chaos theory, cybernetics, and so on).\n\n\"A really scientific analysis must be real, simplifying, and explanatory,\" he writes. Phonemic analysis reveals features that are real, in the sense that users of the language can recognize and respond to them. At the same time, a phoneme is an abstraction from language–not a sound, but a category of sound defined by the way it is distinguished from other categories through rules unique to the language. The entire sound-structure of a language may be generated from a relatively small number of rules.\n\nIn the study of the kinship systems that first concerned him, this ideal of explanation allowed a comprehensive organization of data that partly had been ordered by other researchers. The overall goal was to find out why family relations differed among various South American cultures. The father might have great authority over the son in one group, for example, with the relationship rigidly restricted by taboos. In another group, the mother's brother would have that kind of relationship with the son, while the father's relationship was relaxed and playful.\n\nA number of partial patterns had been noted. Relations between the mother and father, for example, had some sort of reciprocity with those of father and son–if the mother had a dominant social status and was formal with the father, for example, then the father usually had close relations with the son. But these smaller patterns joined together in inconsistent ways.\n\nOne possible way of finding a master order was to rate all the positions in a kinship system along several dimensions. For example, the father was older than the son, the father produced the son, the father had the same sex as the son, and so on; the matrilineal uncle was older and of the same sex, but did not produce the son, and so on. An exhaustive collection of such observations might cause an overall pattern to emerge.\n\nBut for Lévi-Strauss, this kind of work was considered \"analytical in appearance only.\" It results in a chart that is far more difficult to understand than the original data and is based on arbitrary abstractions (empirically, fathers are older than sons, but it is only the researcher who declares that this feature explains their relations). Furthermore, it doesn't explain anything. The explanation it offers is tautological–if age is crucial, then age explains a relationship. And it does not offer the possibility of inferring the origins of the structure.\n\nA proper solution to the puzzle is to find a basic unit of kinship which can explain all the variations. It is a cluster of four roles–brother, sister, father, son. These are the roles that must be involved in any society that has an incest taboo requiring a man to obtain a wife from some man outside his own hereditary line. A brother may give away his sister, for example, whose son might reciprocate in the next generation by allowing his own sister to marry exogamously. The underlying demand is a continued circulation of women to keep various clans peacefully related.\n\nRight or wrong, this solution displays the qualities of structural thinking. Even though Lévi-Strauss frequently speaks of treating culture as the product of the axioms and corollaries that underlie it, or the phonemic differences that constitute it, he is concerned with the objective data of field research. He notes that it is logically possible for a different atom of kinship structure to exist–sister, sister's brother, brother's wife, daughter–but there are no real-world examples of relationships that can be derived from that grouping. The trouble with this view has been shown by the Australian anthropologist Augustus Elkin, who insisted on the point that in a four class marriage system, the preferred marriage was with a classificatory mother' s brother's daughter and never with the true one. Lévi-Strauss's atom of kinship structure deals only with consanguineal kin. There is a big difference between the two situations, in that the kinship structure involving the classificatory kin relations allows for the building of a system which can bring together thousands of people. Lévi-Strauss's atom of kinship stops working once the true MoBrDa is missing. Lévi-Strauss also developed the concept of the house society to describe those societies where the domestic unit is more central for social organization than the descent group or lineage.\n\nThe purpose of structuralist explanation is to organize real data in the simplest effective way. All science, he says, is either structuralist or reductionist. In confronting such matters as the incest taboo, one is facing an objective limit of what the human mind has accepted so far. One could hypothesize some biological imperative underlying it, but so far as social order is concerned, the taboo has the effect of an irreducible fact. The social scientist can only work with the structures of human thought that arise from it.\n\nAnd structural explanations can be tested and refuted. A mere analytic scheme that wishes causal relations into existence is not structuralist in this sense.\n\nLévi-Strauss's later works are more controversial, in part because they impinge on the subject matter of other scholars. He believed that modern life and all history was founded on the same categories and transformations that he had discovered in the Brazilian back country–\"The Raw and the Cooked, From Honey to Ashes, The Naked Man\" (to borrow some titles from the \"Mythologiques\"). For instance he compares anthropology to musical serialism and defends his \"philosophical\" approach. He also pointed out that the modern view of primitive cultures was simplistic in denying them a history. The categories of myth did not persist among them because nothing had happened–it was easy to find the evidence of defeat, migration, exile, repeated displacements of all the kinds known to recorded history. Instead, the mythic categories had encompassed these changes.\n\nHe argued for a view of human life as existing in two timelines simultaneously, the eventful one of history and the long cycles in which one set of fundamental mythic patterns dominates and then perhaps another. In this respect, his work resembles that of Fernand Braudel, the historian of the Mediterranean and 'la longue durée,' the cultural outlook and forms of social organization that persisted for centuries around that sea. He is right in that history is difficult to build up in non literate society, nevertheless, Jean Guiart's anthropological and José Garanger's archeological work in central Vanuatu, bringing to the fore the skeletons of former chiefs described in local myths, who had thus been living persons, shows that there can be some means of ascertaining the history of some groups which otherwise would be deemed a-historical. Another issue is the experience that the same person can tell one a myth highly charged in symbols, and some years later a sort of chronological history claiming to be the chronic of a descent line (from examples in the Loyalty islands and New Zealand), the two texts having in common that they each deal in topographical detail with the land-tenure claims of the said descent line (see Douglas Oliver on the Siwai in Bougainville). Lévi-Strauss would agree to these aspects be explained inside his seminar, but would never touch them on his own. The anthropological data content of the myths was not his problem. He was only interested with the formal aspects of each story, considered by him as the result of the workings of the collective unconscious of each group, which idea was taken from the linguists, but cannot be proved in any way although he was adamant about its existence and would never accept any discussion on this point.\n\nLévi-Strauss sees a basic paradox in the study of myth. On one hand, mythical stories are fantastic and unpredictable: the content of myth seems completely arbitrary. On the other hand, the myths of different cultures are surprisingly similar:\n\nOn the one hand it would seem that in the course of a myth anything is likely to happen. ... But on the other hand, this apparent arbitrariness is belied by the astounding similarity between myths collected in widely different regions. Therefore the problem: If the content of myth is contingent [i.e., arbitrary], how are we to explain the fact that myths throughout the world are so similar?\n\nLévi-Strauss proposed that universal laws must govern mythical thought and resolve this seeming paradox, producing similar myths in different cultures. Each myth may seem unique, but he proposed it is just one particular instance of a universal law of human thought. In studying myth, Lévi-Strauss tries \"to reduce apparently arbitrary data to some kind of order, and to attain a level at which a kind of necessity becomes apparent, underlying the illusions of liberty\". Laurie suggests that for Levi-Strauss, 'operations embedded within animal myths provide opportunities to resolve collective problems of classification and hierarchy, marking lines between the inside and the outside, the Law and its exceptions, those who belong and those who do not'.\n\nAccording to Lévi-Strauss, \"mythical thought always progresses from the awareness of oppositions toward their resolution\". In other words, myths consist of:\n\nFor example, Lévi-Strauss thinks the trickster of many Native American mythologies acts as a \"mediator\". Lévi-Strauss's argument hinges on two facts about the Native American trickster:\nLévi-Strauss argues that the raven and coyote \"mediate\" the opposition between life and death. The relationship between agriculture and hunting is analogous to the opposition between life and death: agriculture is solely concerned with producing life (at least up until harvest time); hunting is concerned with producing death. Furthermore, the relationship between herbivores and beasts of prey is analogous to the relationship between agriculture and hunting: like agriculture, herbivores are concerned with plants; like hunting, beasts of prey are concerned with catching meat. Lévi-Strauss points out that the raven and coyote eat carrion and are therefore halfway between herbivores and beasts of prey: like beasts of prey, they eat meat; like herbivores, they don't catch their food. Thus, he argues, \"we have a mediating structure of the following type\":\n\nBy uniting herbivore traits with traits of beasts of prey, the raven and coyote somewhat reconcile herbivores and beasts of prey: in other words, they mediate the opposition between herbivores and beasts of prey. As we have seen, this opposition ultimately is analogous to the opposition between life and death. Therefore, the raven and coyote ultimately mediate the opposition between life and death. This, Lévi-Strauss believes, explains why the coyote and raven have a contradictory personality when they appear as the mythical trickster:\n\nThe trickster is a mediator. Since his mediating function occupies a position halfway between two polar terms, he must retain something of that duality—namely an ambiguous and equivocal character.\n\nBecause the raven and coyote reconcile profoundly opposed concepts (i.e., life and death), their own mythical personalities must reflect this duality or contradiction: in other words, they must have a contradictory, \"tricky\" personality.\n\nThis theory about the structure of myth helps support Lévi-Strauss's more basic theory about human thought. According to this more basic theory, universal laws govern \"all\" areas of human thought:\n\nIf it were possible to prove in this instance, too, that the apparent arbitrariness of the mind, its supposedly spontaneous flow of inspiration, and its seemingly uncontrolled inventiveness [are ruled by] laws operating at a deeper level ... if the human mind appears determined even in the realm of mythology, \"a fortiori\" it must also be determined in all its spheres of activity.\n\nOut of all the products of culture, myths seem the most fantastic and unpredictable. Therefore, Lévi-Strauss claims, if even mythical thought obeys universal laws, then \"all\" human thought must obey universal laws.\n\nLévi-Strauss developed the comparison of the Bricoleur and Engineer in \"The Savage Mind\". \"Bricoleur\" has its origin in the old French verb \"bricoler\", which originally referred to extraneous movements in ball games, billiards, hunting, shooting and riding, but which today means do-it-yourself building or repairing things with the tools and materials on hand, puttering or tinkering as it were. In comparison to the true craftsman, whom Lévi-Strauss calls the Engineer, the Bricoleur is adept at many tasks and at putting preexisting things together in new ways, adapting his project to a finite stock of materials and tools. The Engineer deals with projects in their entirety, conceiving and procuring all the necessary materials and tools to suit his project. The Bricoleur approximates \"the savage mind\" and the Engineer approximates the scientific mind. Lévi-Strauss says that the universe of the Bricoleur is closed, and he often is forced to make do with whatever is at hand, whereas the universe of the Engineer is open in that he is able to create new tools and materials. But both live within a restrictive reality, and so the Engineer is forced to consider the preexisting set of theoretical and practical knowledge, of technical means, in a similar way to the Bricoleur.\n\nLévi-Strauss's theory on the origin of the Trickster has been criticized on a number of points by anthropologists. Stanley Diamond notes that while the secular civilized often consider the concepts of life and death to be polar, primitive cultures often see them \"as aspects of a single condition, the condition of existence.\" Diamond remarks that Lévi-Strauss did not reach such a conclusion by inductive reasoning, but simply by working backwards from the evidence to the \"\"a priori\" mediated concepts\" of \"life\" and \"death\", which he reached by assumption of a necessary progression from \"life\" to \"agriculture\" to \"herbivorous animals\", and from \"death\" to \"warfare\" to \"beasts of prey\". For that matter, the coyote is well known to hunt in addition to scavenging and the raven also has been known to act as a bird of prey, in contrast to Lévi-Strauss's conception. Nor does that conception explain why a scavenger such as a bear would never appear as the Trickster. Diamond further remarks that \"the Trickster names 'raven' and 'coyote' which Lévi-Strauss explains can be arrived at with greater economy on the basis of, let us say, the cleverness of the animals involved, their ubiquity, elusiveness, capacity to make mischief, their undomesticated reflection of certain human traits.\" Finally, Lévi-Strauss's analysis does not appear to be capable of explaining why representations of the Trickster in other areas of the world make use of such animals as the spider and mantis.\n\nEdmund Leach wrote that \"The outstanding characteristic of his writing, whether in French or English, is that it is difficult to understand; his sociological theories combine baffling complexity with overwhelming erudition. Some readers even suspect that they are being treated to a confidence trick\". The sociologist Stanislav Andreski criticized Lévi-Strauss's work generally, arguing that his scholarship was often sloppy and moreover that much of his mystique and reputation stemmed from his \"threatening people with mathematics,\" a reference to Lévi-Strauss's use of quasi-algebraic equations to explain his ideas. The critic Camille Paglia dismissed Lévi-Strauss as overrated, commenting that \"When as a Yale graduate student I ransacked that great temple, Sterling Library, in search of paradigms for reintegrating literary criticism with history, I found literally nothing in Lévi-Strauss that I felt had scholarly solidity.\" Drawing on post-colonial approaches to anthropology, Timothy Laurie has suggested that \"Lévi-Strauss speaks from the vantage point of a State intent on securing knowledge for the purposes of, as he himself would often claim, salvaging local cultures... but the salvation workers also ascribe to themselves legitimacy and authority in the process\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1741125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1741125", "title": "Crossing the Threshold of Hope", "text": "Crossing the Threshold of Hope\n\nCrossing the Threshold of Hope was written in 1994 by Pope John Paul II. It was published originally in Italian by Arnoldo Mondadori Editore and in English by Alfred A. Knopf, Inc. It is distributed by Random House, Inc., New York City. By 1998, the book had sold several million copies and was published in forty languages. Over one million copies were sold in Italy alone.\n\nThe contents presented in \"Crossing the Threshold of Hope\" were originally intended to be broadcast as a live television interview with Vittorio Messori, an Italian journalist and writer. The interview was to celebrate fifteen years of his papacy. When John Paul II had to cancel the interview at the last minute, he still wanted to answer Messori’s questions and told him: “You have asked me questions, therefore you have a right to responses. ... I am working on them. I will let you have them. Then do with them what you think is appropriate”.\n\nAt the end of April 1994, Messori received a package from the Vatican: The pope had answered every question. John Paul II expressed his confidence in Messori by permitting him to do whatever he saw fit with the contents of the folder. He only wrote “Crossing the Threshold of Hope” on the inside front cover of the folder as a suggestion for a possible title.\n\nAs Messori began compiling the questions, he saw that additional questions as follow-up would be helpful. Additional questions were composed and sent. When the follow-up questions returned from the Vatican, Messori found that the pope had again answered every question.\n\nThe text of the book is presented exactly as written by John Paul II. Points that the pope underlined in his original manuscript are italicized in the published text. Paragraph breaks remain consistent with John Paul II’s writing.\n\nMessori doesn’t ask private questions, but the questions he does ask allow the reader to see the personal life of the pope. For example, the very first question in \"Crossing the Threshold of Hope\" asks whether the pope ever doubts his relationship with God, especially given the importance of his role in the Catholic Church. The pope’s answer grounds itself in Scripture: “Be not afraid!” (Luke 1:30). These words echoed through John Paul II’s papacy, and they continue to echo in this writing.\n\nMessori continues to ask questions throughout the book that people throughout the world have wondered: “How do you pray?” “Does God really exist?” “Is there really hope in the young?” “Does eternal life exist?” “What does it mean to be saved?” The pope does not answer questions that only pertain to Catholicism. Messori asks questions about Islam, Buddhism, Judaism, Hinduism, and monotheistic religions in general. John Paul II’s answers to these questions reflect his great love for all people and his knowledge of these religions: he speaks several times of individuals he has met who belong to these religions, sometimes calling them by name. He also says vehemently that “the Catholic Church rejects nothing that is true and holy in these religions”. He quotes the Second Vatican Council as mentioning a \"common soteriological root present in all religions\" though he seems to contradict that by stating that \"the Buddhist tradition and the methods deriving from it have an almost exclusively negative soteriology.\" and continuing \"doctrines of salvation in Buddhism and Christianity are opposed.\" This has been judged by Buddhists as a misunderstanding of Buddhism.\n\nMessori’s questions in the latter portion of the book refer to various tenets of the Catholic faith, including whether the Catholic Church really has the fullness of truth, and whether or not heaven exists. Many people ask these questions, and the pope’s answers to these questions can be found here.\n\nSome readers may find Messori frustrating at times, as his writing can be gushing and formal. He says things like, “Pardon me, Your Holiness, but my role (which gives me great honor but also a certain responsibility) is also that of a respectful “provocateur” with regard to questions...”.\n\nTopics of the book include: “The Pope: A Scandal and a Mystery,” “How does the Pope Pray?” “Does God Really Exist?” “Proof: Is it Still Valid?” “If God Exists, Why is He Hiding?” “Is Jesus the Son of God?” “Why Is There So Much Evil in the World?” “What Does To Save Mean?” “Why So Many Religions?” “Buddha?” “Muhammad?” “Judaism?” “What Is the New Evangelization?” “Is There Really Hope in the Young?” “Was God at Work in the Fall of Communism?” “Is Only Rome Right?” “In Search of Lost Unity,” “A Qualitative Renewal,” “The Reaction of the World,” “Does Eternal Life Exist?” “Human Rights,” “The Mother of God,” and “Be Not Afraid.”\n\nThe pope answers questions directly, and he also provides a context and history as background. He reflects on Descartes’ philosophy of “I think, therefore I am,” while referencing Kant, Hegel, Husserl, Heidegger, Aristotle, and Plato when defining the history of European thought.\n\nAlthough the pope writes to a world-wide audience, he also speaks specifically of the Catholic faith, including references not only to the Sacred Scriptures, but also many saints: Augustine’s \"City of God\", John of the Cross and his \"Ascent of Mount Carmel\", Thomas Aquinas and the \"Summa Theologica\", and many more.\n\nReception of this work of John Paul II range from “With the humility and generosity of spirit for which he is well known, John Paul speaks forthrightly to all people” to “the Pope emerges as the master of the flat statement, the bland certainty. Metaphor, anecdotes, humour, imagination rarely trouble his style; he prefers the long pedantic plod through Aristotle and Plato, St Paul, Augustine, St Thomas Aquinas, Descartes, Pascal, Kant, Hegel, Husserl and Heidegger”\n\nThe Pope's negative portrayal of Buddhism received widespread criticism within the various branches of Buddhism across the world.\n\nIn response to receiving several letters from Poland, from individuals and from a publishing house, asking him to comment on it, Thinley Norbu Rinpoche (one of the key teachers in the Nyingma lineage of Tibetan Buddhism) wrote the book \"Welcoming Flowers from across the Cleansed Threshold of Hope: An Answer to the Pope's Criticism of Buddhism\" to address the \"serious, gratuitous misrepresentations of Buddhist doctrine which seemed to be based on misunderstandings\" contained within \"Crossing the Threshold of Hope\".\n\nThe release of the book in Sri Lanka on the eve of the Pope's January visit to this country stirred up waves of indignation in the Buddhist community that spread as far as the Vatican. The Buddhist prelates announced that they would not attend an inter-religious meeting requested by the Pope unless he formally retracted his unfavorable remarks about Buddhism. Although on arrival the Pope tried to appease the feelings of Buddhist leaders by declaring his esteem for their religion, even quoting the Dhammapada, he fell short of proffering a full apology, and this did not satisfy the Sangha elders.\n\n\"The New York Times\" cited criticism from Sri Lanka Buddhists, saying:\n\nVen. Bhikkhu Bodhi, a highly regarded scholar of Theravada Buddhism and past president of the Buddhist Publication Society published an essay \"intended as a short corrective to the Pope's demeaning characterization of Buddhism\" entitled \"Toward a Threshold of Understanding\".\n\nThe English satirical magazine \"Private Eye\" attacked the book; \"A few pages reveal however, that this is no interview at all, being constructed instead on the age-old Catholic model of the Catechism, in which the grovelling postulant is not only given all the answers to memorise but has all the questions dictated to him too.\"\n\n\"Crossing the Threshold of Hope\" has been cited by many, including Scott Hahn (\"Lord, Have Mercy: The Healing Power of Confession\"), Eugene Mario DeRobertis (\"Phenomenological Psychology: A Text for Beginners\"), Harold C Raley (\"A Watch Over Mortality: The Philosophical Story of Julian Marias\"), R Baschetti (\"Evolutionary, Biological Origins of Mortality: Implications for Research with Human Embryonic Stem Cells\"), Anthony Scioli (\"Hope in the Age of Anxiety\"), John Berkman (\"The Consumption of Animals and the Catholic Tradition\"), and Christopher Jamison (\"Finding Sanctuary: Monastic Steps for Everyday Life\") and more.\n\n"}
{"id": "28699677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28699677", "title": "Daniel Little", "text": "Daniel Little\n\nDaniel E. Little (born 1949) is the Chancellor for the University of Michigan-Dearborn and Professor of Philosophy. He also serves as professor of sociology at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.\n\nDaniel Little earned two undergraduate degrees in philosophy and mathematics from the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign in 1971 and a Ph.D in philosophy from Harvard University in 1977.\n\nAfter his time at Harvard University, Little served in faculty positions at the University of Wisconsin-Parkside, Wellesley College, Colgate University, and Bucknell University. He served as vice president for academic affairs at Bucknell University between 1996 and 2000. His areas of specialization and competence include the philosophy of social sciences, social and political philosophy, and Asian studies.\n\nAside from serving as chancellor at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, he serves on the boards for New Detroit and City Year Detroit. He is an active scholar and has written and lectured extensively on the foundations of the social sciences. His 2003 book is \"The Paradox of Wealth and Poverty\", a discussion of the ethical issues raised by economic development in the third world. In 2016 he published \"New Directions in the Philosophy of Social Science\". He is actively involved in the metropolitan Detroit community and serves on several boards in Michigan concerned with civil rights, race relations, and improving inter-group understanding.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1388242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1388242", "title": "Dharma transmission", "text": "Dharma transmission\n\nIn Zen-Buddhism, Dharma transmission is a custom in which a person is established as a \"successor in an unbroken lineage of teachers and disciples, a spiritual 'bloodline' (\"kechimyaku\") theoretically traced back to the Buddha himself.\" The dharma lineage reflects the importance of family-structures in ancient China, and forms a symbolic and ritual recreation of this system for the monastical \"family\".\n\nIn Rinzai-Zen, \"inka shōmei\" is ideally \"the formal recognition of Zen's deepest realisation\", but practically it is being used for the transmission of the \"true lineage\" of the masters (\"shike\") of the training halls. There are only about fifty to eighty of such \"inka shōmei\"-bearers in Japan.\n\nIn Sōtō-Zen, dharma transmission (shiho) provides access to only a relatively low grade. It is listed as a requirement for the very lowest ecclesiastical status, that of an instructor third class (\"santō kyōshi\") further training is required to become an oshō.\n\nThe notion and practice of Dharma Transmission developed early in the history of Chán, as a means to gain credibility and to foster institutional ties among the members of the Chán-community. Charts of dharma-lineages were developed, which represented the continuity of the Buddhist dharma. Originally these lineages only included the Chinese Patriarchs, but they were later extended to twenty-eight Indian Patriarchs and seven Buddhas.\n\nThe Chán-tradition developed from the established tradition of \"Canonical Buddhism\", which \"remained normative for all later Chinese Buddhism\". It was established by the end of the sixth century, as a result of the Chinese developing understanding of Buddhism in the previous centuries.\n\nOne of the inventions of this Canonical Buddhism were transmission lists, a literary device to establish a lineage. Both T'ien Tai and Chán took over this literary device, to lend authority to those developing traditions, and guarantee its authenticity:\nThe concept of dharma transmission took shape during the Tang period, when establishing the right teachings became important, to safeguard the authority of specific schools. The emerging Zen-tradition developed the \"Transmission of the Lamp\"-genre, in which lineages from Shakyamuni Buddha up to their own times were described.\n\nAnother literary device for establishing those traditions was given by the \"Kao-seng-chuan\" (Biographies of Eminent Monks), compiled around 530. The Chán-tradition developed its own corpus in this genre, with works such as \"Anthology of the Patriarchal Hall\" (952) and the \"Jingde Records of the Transmission of the Lamp\" (published 1004). McRae considers Dumoulin's \"A History of Zen\" to be a modern example of this genre, disguised as scientific history.\n\nThe Chán-lineages picture the Indian monk Bodhidharma as the patriarch who brought Chán to China. Only scarce historical information is available about him, but his hagiography developed when the Chan tradition grew stronger and gained prominence in the early 8th century.\n\nBy this time a lineage of the six ancestral founders of Chán in China was developed. In the late 8th century, under the influence of Huineng's student Shenhui, the traditional form of this lineage had been established:\n\nAccording to tradition, the sixth and last ancestral founder, Huineng (惠能; 638–713), was one of the giants of Chán history, and all surviving schools regard him as their ancestor. The dramatic story of Huineng's life tells that there was a controversy over his claim to the title of patriarch. After being chosen by Hongren, the fifth ancestral founder, Huineng had to flee by night to Nanhua Temple in the south to avoid the wrath of Hongren's jealous senior disciples.\n\nModern scholarship, however, has questioned this narrative. Historic research reveals that this story was created around the middle of the 8th century, beginning in 731 by Shenhui, a successor to Huineng, to win influence at the Imperial Court. He claimed Huineng to be the successor of Hongren's, instead of the then publicly recognized successor Shenxiu. In 745 Shen-hui was invited to take up residence in the Ho-tse temple in Lo-yang. In 753 he fell out of grace, and had to leave the capital to go into exile. The most prominent of the successors of his lineage was Guifeng Zongmi According to Tsung-mi, Shen-hui's approach was officially sanctioned in 796, when \"an imperial commission determined that the Southern line of Ch'an represented the orthodox transmission and established Shen-hui as the seventh patriarch, placing an inscription to that effect in the shen-lung temple\".\n\nDoctrinally the Southern School is associated with the teaching that enlightenment is sudden, while the Northern School is associated with the teaching that enlightenment is gradual. This was a polemical exaggeration, since both schools were derived from the same tradition, and the so-called Southern School incorporated many teachings of the more influential Northern School. Eventually both schools died out, but the influence of Shenhui was so immense that all later Chan schools traced their origin to Huineng, and \"sudden enlightenment\" became a standard doctrine of Chan.\n\nIn later writings this lineage was extended to include twenty-eight Indian patriarchs. In the \"Song of Enlightenment\" (證道歌 \"Zhèngdào gē\") of Yongjia Xuanjue (永嘉玄覺, 665–713), one of the chief disciples of Huìnéng, it is written that Bodhidharma was the 28th patriarch in a line of descent from Mahākāśyapa, a disciple of Śākyamuni Buddha, and the first patriarch of Chán Buddhism. \n\nKeizan's \"Transmission of the Light\" gives twenty-eight patriarchs up to and including Bodhidharma in this transmission:\n\nAccording to the traditional Chán accounts, the first Dharma transmission occurred as described in the Flower Sermon. The Buddha held up a golden lotus flower before an assembly of \"gods and men\". None who were in attendance showed any sign of understanding except his disciple Mahākāśyapa, who offered only a smile. The Buddha then said, \nThough dharma transmission implies the acknowledgement of insight into the teachings of Buddhism as understood by the Zen tradition, especially seeing into one's true nature, dharma transmission is also a means to establish a person into the Zen tradition:\nThe dharma lineage reflects the importance of family-structures in ancient China, and forms a symbolic and ritual recreation of this system for the monastical \"family\".\n\nAccording to Borup the emphasis on 'mind to mind transmission' is a form of esoteric transmission, in which \"the tradition and the enlightened mind is transmitted face to face\". Metaphorically this can be described as the transmission of a flame from one candle to another candle, or the transmission from one vein to another. In exoteric transmission the requirement is \"direct access to the teaching through a personal discovery of one's self. This type of transmission and identification is symbolized by the discovery of a shining lantern, or a mirror.\"\n\nThis polarity is recognizable in the emphasis that the Zen-tradition puts on maintaining the correct Dharma transmission, while simultaneously stressing seeing into one's nature:\nNevertheless, while the Zen tradition has always stressed the importance of formal Dharma transmission, there are well known examples of Mushi dokugo, such as Nōnin, Jinul and Suzuki Shōsan who attained awakening on their own, though all of them were familiair with the Zen-teachings.\n\nAccording to Bodiford, \"Zen is the predominant form of Buddhism because of dharma transmission\":\nBodiford distinguishes seven dimensions which are discernible in both family relationships and in dharma lineages:\n\nThe family-model is easier recognized when East Asian languages are being used, because the same terminology is used to describe both earthly and spiritual family relations.\n\nDharma transmission is both concrete and abstract:\nThis feature gives dharma transmission a great flexibility:\nWithin the various Zen traditions dharma transmission got various meanings. A difference is made in most schools between \nTraditional Chinese Chán still exists in China, Taiwan and Hong Kong, though it is less known in the west than Japanese Zen.\n\nIn the Chinese Buddhist tradition, there are 3 systems of transmission:\n\nIt is customary to refer to one's own tonsure Master as \"Gracious Master\", precept Master as \"Root Master\" and Dharma transmission Master as \"Venerable Master\". In Chinese Buddhism, these 3 systems are separate and are not performed by the same Masters. Moreover, due to the strong emphasis on the Dharma, when a person receives the Dharma transmission, he/she is recognized as that Ch'an Master's Dharma son/daughter. Of course lay Buddhists may also receive this Dharma transmission, but there are very few incidences. Most of the monk/nun who received the transmission has already been tonsured and ordained by other Masters.\n\nAll Rinzai lineages pass through Hakuin Ekaku, the 18th century revivalist, who considered himself to be an heir of Shoju Rojin (Shoju Ronin, Dokyu Etan, 1642–1721), though Hakuin never received formal dharma transmission from Shoju Rojin, nor from any other teacher. When he was installed as head priest of Shōin-ji in 1718, he had the title of \"Dai-ichiza\", \"First Monk\":\nAll contemporary Rinzai-lineages stem from Inzan Ien (1751–1814) and Takuju Kosen (1760–1833), both students of Gasan Jito (1727–1797). Gasan is considered to be a dharma heir of Hakuin, though \"he did not belong to the close circle of disciples and was probably not even one of Hakuin's dharma heirs\".\n\nThrough Hakuin, all contemporary Japanese Rinzai-lineages are part of the Ōtōkan lineage, brought to Japan in 1267 by Nanpo Jomyo, who received dharma transmission in China in 1265.\n\nIn the Rinzai school, a difference is made between acknowledgement of insight and succession in the organisation:\nAccording to Mohr, \nThe most common form of transmission in Rinzai Zen is the acknowledgement that one has stayed in the monastery for a certain amount of time, and may later become a temple priest.\n\nAfter finishing the koan-study, further practice is necessary:\nThe common transmission does not include \"inka shōmei\". Ideally \"inka shōmei\" is \"the formal recognition of Zen's deepest realisation\", but practically it is being used for the transmission of the \"true lineage\" of the masters (\"shike\") of the training halls. Training halls are temples which are authorised for further training after being qualified as a temple priest.\n\nThere are only about fifty to eighty of such \"inka shōmei\"-bearers in Japan:\nAccording to roshi Sokun Tsushimoto, the title of \"roshi\" is equivalent to \"Zen master\" and \"shike\":\nA qualified Zen master bestows inka only upon \"those select few\" who have successfully completed the entire Rinzai koan curriculum, and \"are eligible to serve as \"sōdō\" roshi, that is, master of a training hall, in distinction from a common temple:\nAccording to roshi Sokun Tsushimoto,\nThe right-hand portion of the seal was given to an individual who would then work by authority of the emperor, while the emperor himself would retain the left-hand portion. In ancient times inka usually came in the form of an actual document, but this practice is no longer commonplace.\n\nIn Sōtō, dharma transmission is the acknowledgement of the ties between teacher and student. It has been subject to changes over the history of the Sōtō-school.\n\nThough Dōgen emphasized the importance of the purity of the teachings, and highly valued lineage and dharma transmission, the Sōtō-school has its origins in various lineages and dharma transmissions. Dogen received dharma transmission from his Chinese teacher Rujing, with whom he studied two years, but in medieval Sōtō he was also considered to be a dharma heir of Myōzen, a Rinzai-teacher, with whom he studied eight years. And Tettsū Gikai, the dharma-grandson of Dogen, was also lineage-holder of Nōnin, the founder of the Dharuma-shu, also a Rinzai-school. Gikai passed this linegae over to Keizan, who thereby was also lineage-holder in at least two lineages.\n\nTo make the history of Sōtō even more complicated, the Caodong-lineage that Dogen inherited through Rujing was passed on previously from the Caodong-master Dayang Jingxuan to Touzi Yiqing via the Rinzai-master Fushan Fayuan. Fushan Fayuan had once studied under Dayang Jingxuan. When Jingxuan died Fayuan had received Jingxuan's \"portrait, robe, and a verse that expressed his teaching\", promising \"to pass them on to a suitable successor\". Fayuan chose his student Touzi Yiqing to inherit this lineage, a fact that was acknowledged in Keizan's Denkoroku, but \"[i]n the standard versions of Dogen's writings, however, all direct references to Yiqing's indirect succession have been eliminated\".\n\nManzan Dokahu (1636–1714), a Sōtō reformer,\nAccording to Manzan, even an unenlightened student could receive dharma transmission:\nIn Sōtō-zen, since Manzan Dokahu, two criteria are applied for dharma transmission:\n\nIn contrast to the status that dharma transmission has begotten in the west, in Sōtō it has a relatively low status:\nTo supervise the training of monks, further qualifications are necessary:\nThe duties which come with this full qualification were not always appreciated. In the medieval organisation of the Sōtō-shu, when rotation of abbotship was the norm. Dharma transmission at a branch temple obliged one to serve at least one term as abbot at the main temple. Abbotship gave severe duties, and financial burdens, for which reason many tried to avoid the responsibility of abbotship:\nThe Sōtō-shu also confers inka shōmyō (or \"inshō\") \"[granting] the seal of approval to a realization of enlightenment\", upon students. This is an \nDharma transmission is part of the maintenance of the Sōtō-institutions. Authority and temple-property are handed down, often from father to son. It is not a guarantee for spiritual attainment:\n[Please note that this section provides only one reference from a single individual. Help Wikipedia by including more sources.]\n\nDharma transmission is also called \"shiho\". In the Sōtō school a student receives Dharma transmission during a \"denbō\" ceremony, which is the last ceremony of their shiho ceremony: \nShiho is...\nShiho is done \"one-to-one in the abbot's quarters (hojo)\". Three handwritten documents certify the dharma transmission;\nThe procedure has to take place only once in one's life, and binds the student to the teacher forever:\nIf a students does not have the feeling he wants to be tied to this teacher for the rest of his life, he may refuse to take dharma transmission from this particular teacher. Since the time of Manzan Dokahu (1636–1714), multiple dharma transmissions are impossible in Sōtō Zen.\n\nAccording to Muho Noelke, dharma transmission marks the beginning of the real learning:\nAfter Dharma transmission one has become a member of the \"blood line\" of Zen, but is not yet qualified as an Oshō. After the ten-e and zuise ceremonies, one is qualified as an oshō. There-after one has to practice for some time, at least six months, in an \"sôdô-ango\", an officially recognized Sōtō-shu training centre.\n\nAfter that one can start to work in a temple. The newly acquired status is confirmed in the \"kyoshi-honin\" ceremony. There-after follows the first practice-period in one's own temple, with the aid of a \"susho\" (head monk). This is followed by the \"Jushoku-himei\" ceremony, which confirms one's status as \"dai-oshō\".\n\nThe Sanbo Kyodan mixes Sōtō and Rinzai-elements. Students in this school follow the Harada-Yasutani koan curriculum, in which great emphasis is placed on kensho, the initial insight into one's true nature. Having attained kensho is publicly acknowledged in a \"jahai\"-ceremony. After working through the Harada-Yasutani koan curriculum, which may take as short as five years, the student receives a calligraphy testifying that het or she \"has finished the great matter\". This is publicly acknowledged in the \"hasansai\"-ceremony, giving the status of \"hasan\".\n\nThe Sanbo Kyodan has two levels of teaching authority, namely \"junshike\" (\"associate zen master\"), and \"shōshike\" (\"authentic zen master\"). Junshikes can give dokusan, authorize kensho, and supervise part of the koan-study. Shoshikes can supervise the advanced koan-study, and perform religious ceremonies, such as the precept-ceremony and wedding ceremonies.\n\nThe process toward gaining these titles has seen some variations within the Sanbo Kyodan. \"Hasansai\" may be preparatory to the \"junshike\"-title, but may also be the promotion to this title. And promotion to \"shoshike\" may be preparatory to dharma transmission, but may also be equivalent to it.\n\nIn dharma transmission, the student receives the \"sanmotsu\", akin to the Sōtō shiho ceremony. This is coupled with the Rinzai notion on \"inka\". In Rinzai, only students who have completed the complete Rinzai koan curriculum and \"are eligible to serve as \"sōdō\" roshi, that is, master of a training hall, in distinction from a common temple, receive inka. In the Sanbo Kyodan, \"inka\" is derived from Harada's Rinzai master Dokutan Sōsan.\n\nIn the White Plum Asanga, Dharma transmission comes first, and qualifies one as a sensei. This may be followed by inka, the final acknowledgemment:\nIn Korean Soen, Inka (In'ga) typically refers to the private acknowledgement of dharma transmission from a teacher to their student. \"Transmission\" is used to refer to the public ceremonial version of the same acknowledgement.\n\nBoth are considered equal in authority and \"realization\". A monk with either In'ga or the public \"transmission\" is qualified to hold the post of Soen Sa, or \"Zen Master\" for a temple, and give transmission to their own students (either, In'ga or public \"transmission\"). The majority of Zen Masters in Korea have only received, and only give In'ga, with the formal transmission ceremony being far more rare.\n\nIn the Western Kwan Um School of Zen created by the Korean Zen Master Seung Sahn, \"Inka\" is granted to an individual who has completed their koan training and is granted the title Ji Do Poep Sa Nim. Dharma transmission in the Kwan Um School of Zen comes after inka, denoting the individual is now a Soen Sa Nim. Seung Sahn himself is quoted saying in reference to the administration of his Western organization, \nThich Nhat Hanh has created a ritual known as \"Lamp Transmission\", making a teacher a Dharmacharya—an individual with \"limited teaching authority.\" According to author James Ishmael Ford, \nIn the western understanding, dharma transmission stands solely for recognition of authentic insight, whereas in the Japanese monastery system dharma transmission is a formal notification that someone is fully qualified to take a leading role in this system. In the USA and Europe dharma transmission is linked to the unofficial title roshi, older teacher. In the Western understanding roshis are \"part of a tradition that imputes to them quasi-divine qualities\", someone who \"is defined by simplicity, innocence, and lack of self-interest or desire\". Nevertheless, the authorisation of teachers through dharma transmission does not mean that teachers are infallible, as is clear from the repeated appearance of scandals:\nAccording to Lachs, those scandals have also been possible because of the status given to roshis by dharma transmission, and \"a desire for the master’s aura, recognition, and approval\":\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36245259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36245259", "title": "Ernst Theodor Echtermeyer", "text": "Ernst Theodor Echtermeyer\n\nErnst Theodor Echtermeyer (12 August 1805, Bad Liebenwerda – 6 May 1844) was a German writer and philosopher. Together with Arnold Ruge, in 1838, he founded the \"Hallische Jahrbücher für Wissenschaft und Kunst\", an organ of the Young Hegelians.\n"}
{"id": "44078298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44078298", "title": "Ezra Heymann", "text": "Ezra Heymann\n\nEzra Heymann (1928 in Cernăuţi – 22 September 2014 in Barcelona) was a philosopher and university professor.\n\nBorn in the Austro-Hungarian empire (currently Ukraine) to a German family of Jewish descent, during the 1940s his family avoided deportation to Transnistria while living in Czernowitz during his youth thanks to the protection of Traian Popovici. In 1946 Heymann began studies in Philosophy and Literature at the University of Bucharest, then to the University of Vienna and in 1947 to the University of Heidelberg where he completed his doctoral degree under Hans-Georg Gadamer. In 1953 he emigrated to Uruguay teaching at the \"Instituto de Profesores Artigas\" and at the University of the Republic until Juan María Bordaberry came into power. He was forced to leave the country after confronting local authorities regarding autonomy for the University. He then moved to Venezuela in 1974, teaching first at the Universidad Simon Bolivar and at the Central University of Venezuela until his retirement in 2006, although he kept his position as active professor for the rest of his life. His research focused on Kant and in classical German philosophy. His testimony as a Holocaust survivor was compiled in the book \"Exilio a La Vida: Sobrevivientes Judíos De La Shoá\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9605711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9605711", "title": "Giorgio Bàrberi Squarotti", "text": "Giorgio Bàrberi Squarotti\n\nGiorgio Bàrberi Squarotti () (29 September 1929 – 9 April 2017) was an Italian academic and poet.\n\nGiorgio Squarotti was born in 1929 in Turin. He taught Italian literature at the University of Turin from 1967 until his death in 2017. He was one of the most important Italian literary critics. He was known for his detailed studies on classical Italian authors such Dante, Machiavelli, Tasso, Manzoni, Verga and Gozzano, in addition to an interest in contemporary writers. He was director of the historical \"Grande dizionario della lingua italiana\" UTET, with which he also directed the \"Storia della civiltà letteraria italiana\" in six parts (1990–1996).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32705688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32705688", "title": "Hovhannes Imastaser", "text": "Hovhannes Imastaser\n\nHovhannes Imastaser (, c. 1047–1129), also known as Hovhannes Sarkavag (), was a medieval Armenian multi-disciplinary scholar known for his works on philosophy, theology, mathematics, cosmology, and literature. Imastaser was also a gifted hymnologist and pedagogue.\n\nHovhannes Imastaser was born around 1047 in the district of Gardman (village of Pib) of historical Armenia’s eastern province of Utik, which today is located in Azerbaijan, north of Nagorno Karabakh.\nThe most extensive historical account of Hovhannes Imastaser’s life and work is in the 12-13th century Armenian historian Kirakos Gandzaketsi’s “History of Armenia.” There also exists a 13th-century anonymous biography of Hovhannes Imastaser, which is attributed sometimes to Kirakos Gandzaketsi. \n\nHovhannes received his education in theology and science in Haghbat and Sanahin, two important monastic centers of Armenian medieval scholarship. Upon the completion of his studies, Hovhannes moved to medieval Armenia’s capital city of Ani, where he taught philosophy, mathematics, music, cosmography and grammar. In Ani, Hovhannes received the ecclesiastical rank of \"sarkavag\" (deacon), and eventually rose to become a vardapet (archimandrite, Doctor of Theology) of the Armenian Apostolic Church. But it was the title \"sarkavag\", however, that became attached to his name.\n\nWhile Hovhannes Imastaser was recognized as a master of Armenian literature, his works acquired wider publicity only in the 19th century when they were published by Abbot Ghevont Alishan, a member of the Mekhitarist Congregation in Venice that is associated with Armenian Catholics. Imastaser’s innovative approach to literature, for which he is often referred to as a key representative of Armenian literary renaissance, is fully demonstrated in his poem \"Ban Imastutian\" (Discourse on Wisdom). In the poem, written as a dialogue between the author and a blackbird, the bird symbolizes nature, which, per author, is the main inspiration behind art. In Imastaser’s time, artistic inspiration was usually attributed to divine reasons.\n\nAs a hymnologist, Imastaser wrote several important sharakans (hymns): \"Tagh Harutean\" (Ode to the Resurrection), \"Paitsaratsan Aisor\" (Brightened on This Day), \"Anskizbn Bann Astvatz\" (God, The Infinite Word), \"Anchareli Bann Astavatz\" (God, The Inexpressible Word). The latter two are acrostic compositions, each encompassing within their ten stanzas thirty six letters of the Armenian Alphabet. In them, Imastaser glorifies heroes and martyrs who sacrificed their lives defending Armenian homeland and their Christian faith. Imastaser also introduced another patriotic theme to Armenian literature and music: emigration. In his hymns Imastaser prays to God so that Armenians who left their country could find strength to return home.\n\nHovhannes Imastaser also contributed to the standardization of the Armenian prayer book and Psalter. \n\nHovhannes Imastaser’s work in mathematics is represented by the volume \"Haghaks Ankiunavor Tvots\" (Concerning Polygonal Numbers). This work indicates a profound knowledge of all important ancient and medieval mathematicians, including Pythagoras, Euclid and Aristotle. Hovhannes Imastaser translated into Armenian the works of the following classical scholars: Philo of Alexandria, Dionysius the Areopagite, Gregory of Nyssa, Porphyry, and, as mentioned, Aristotle and Euclid.\n\nIn 1084, Hovhannes Imastaser became involved in the project of developing so-called Minor Armenian Calendar, which included all 365 days plus one additional day. Eventually, his work on calendars led to the invention of a perpetual or eternal calendar.\n\nOne of the most important citations of Hovhannes Imastaser reflects his understanding of the role of the empirical method in science. 150 years before Roger Bacon, Hovhannes Imastaser famously noted: “\"Without experimentation, no opinion can be considered probable and acceptable; only experiment produces confirmation and certainty\".”\n"}
{"id": "1397936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1397936", "title": "Hugin (software)", "text": "Hugin (software)\n\nHugin [] is a cross-platform open source panorama photo stitching and HDR merging program developed by Pablo d'Angelo and others. It is a GUI front-end for Helmut Dersch's Panorama Tools and Andrew Mihal's \"Enblend\" and \"Enfuse\". Stitching is accomplished by using several overlapping photos taken from the same location, and using control points to align and transform the photos so that they can be blended together to form a larger image. Hugin allows for the easy (optionally automatic) creation of control points between two images, optimization of the image transforms along with a preview window so the user can see whether the panorama is acceptable. Once the preview is correct, the panorama can be fully stitched, transformed and saved in a standard image format.\n\nHugin and the associated tools can be used to\n\nWith the release of 2010.4.0, which includes a built-in control point generator, the developers consider Hugin to be feature-complete.\n\nThe Hugin development is tracked on Launchpad and the code resides in a Mercurial repository.\n\nFive projects for the development of Hugin / panotools were accepted for the 2007 Google Summer of Code. Additionally a sixth, community sponsored project has been set up. The projects were:\n\nHugin was also accepted to Summer of Code 2008. Projects were:\n\nIn 2009 Google Summer of Code projects were as follows:\n\nIn 2010 the Google Summer of Code projects were:\n\nIn 2011 the GSoC project was centered around Enblend's seam line optimization algorithm using graph-cut algorithm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14459", "title": "Hypnotherapy", "text": "Hypnotherapy\n\nHypnotherapy is a type of complementary and alternative medicine in which the mind is used to help with a variety of problems, such as breaking bad habits or coping with stress.\n\nIt is used for a wide variety of applications, and studies into its efficacy are often of poor quality which makes it difficult to determine efficacy. Several recent meta-analyses and systematic reviews of the literature on various conditions have concluded that the efficacy of hypnotherapy is \"not verified\", that there is no evidence or insufficient evidence for efficacy.\n\nThe United States' \"Federal Dictionary of Occupational Titles\" describes the job of the hypnotherapist:\n\"Induces hypnotic state in client to increase motivation or alter behavior patterns: Consults with client to determine nature of problem. Prepares client to enter hypnotic state by explaining how hypnosis works and what client will experience. Tests subject to determine degree of physical and emotional suggestibility. Induces hypnotic state in client, using individualized methods and techniques of hypnosis based on interpretation of test results and analysis of client's problem. May train client in self-hypnosis conditioning.\nGOE: 10.02.02 STRENGTH: S GED: R4 M3 L4 SVP: 7 DLU: 77\"\n\nThe form of hypnotherapy practiced by most Victorian hypnotists, including James Braid and Hippolyte Bernheim, mainly employed direct suggestion of symptom removal, with some use of therapeutic relaxation and occasionally aversion to alcohol, drugs, etc.\n\nIn the 1950s, Milton H. Erickson developed a radically different approach to hypnotism, which has subsequently become known as \"Ericksonian hypnotherapy\" or \"Neo-Ericksonian hypnotherapy.\" Erickson made use of an informal conversational approach with many clients and complex language patterns, and therapeutic strategies. This divergence from tradition led some of his colleagues, including Andre Weitzenhoffer, to dispute whether Erickson was right to label his approach \"hypnosis\" at all.\n\nThe founders of neuro-linguistic programming (NLP), a method somewhat similar in some regards to some versions of hypnotherapy, claimed that they had modelled the work of Erickson extensively and assimilated it into their approach. Weitzenhoffer disputed whether NLP bears any genuine resemblance to Erickson's work.\n\nIn the 2000s, hypnotherapists began to combine aspects of solution-focused brief therapy (SFBT) with Ericksonian hypnotherapy to produce therapy that was goal focused (what the client wanted to achieve) rather than the more traditional problem focused approach (spending time discussing the issues that brought the client to seek help). A solution-focused hypnotherapy session may include techniques from NLP.\n\nCognitive behavioural hypnotherapy (CBH) is an integrated psychological therapy employing clinical hypnosis and cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT). The use of CBT in conjunction with hypnotherapy may result in greater treatment effectiveness. A meta-analysis of eight different researches revealed \"a 70% greater improvement\" for patients undergoing an integrated treatment to those using CBT only.\n\nIn 1974, Theodore X. Barber and his colleagues published a review of the research which argued, following the earlier social psychology of Theodore R. Sarbin, that hypnotism was better understood not as a \"special state\" but as the result of normal psychological variables, such as active imagination, expectation, appropriate attitudes, and motivation. Barber introduced the term \"cognitive-behavioral\" to describe the nonstate theory of hypnotism, and discussed its application to behavior therapy.\n\nThe growing application of cognitive and behavioral psychological theories and concepts to the explanation of hypnosis paved the way for a closer integration of hypnotherapy with various cognitive and behavioral therapies. \n\nMany cognitive and behavioral therapies were themselves originally influenced by older hypnotherapy techniques, e.g., the systematic desensitisation of Joseph Wolpe, the cardinal technique of early behavior therapy, was originally called \"hypnotic desensitisation\" and derived from the \"Medical Hypnosis\" (1948) of Lewis Wolberg.\n\nDavid Lesser (1928 - 2001) was the originator of what we today understand by the term Curative Hypnotherapy. It was he who first saw the possibility of finding the causes of people’s symptoms by using a combination of hypnosis, IMR and a method of specific questioning that he began to explore. \nRather than try to override the subconscious information as Janet had done, he realised the necessity- and developed the process- to correct the wrong information. Lesser’s understanding of the logicality and simplicity of the subconscious led to the creation of the methodical treatment used today and it is his innovative work and understanding that underpins the therapy and is why the term ‘Lesserian’ was coined and trademarked.\nAs the understanding of the workings of the subconscious continues to evolve, the application of the therapy continues to change. The three most influential changes have been in Specific Questioning (1992) to gain more accurate subconscious information; a subconscious cause/effect mapping system (SRBC)(1996) to streamline the process of curative hypnotherapy treatment; and the ‘LBR Criteria’ (2003) to be able to differentiate more easily between causal and trigger events and helping to target more accurately the erroneous data which requires reinterpretation.\n\nHypnotherapy expert, Dr Peter Marshall, former Principal of the London School of Hypnotherapy and Psychotherapy Ltd. and author of A Handbook of Hypnotherapy, devised the Trance Theory of Mental Illness, which provides that people suffering from depression, or certain other kinds of neurosis, are already living in a trance and so the hypnotherapist does not need to induce them, but rather to make them understand this and help lead them out of it.\n\nClinicians choose hypnotherapy to address a wide range of circumstances; however, according to Yeates (2016), people choose to have hypnotherapy for many other reasons:\n\nHypnotherapy is often applied in the birthing process and the post-natal period, but there is insufficient evidence to determine if it alleviates pain during childbirth and no evidence that it is effective against post-natal depression.\n\nLiterature shows that a wide variety of hypnotic interventions have been investigated for the treatment bulimia nervosa, with inconclusive effect. Similar studies have shown that groups suffering from bulimia nervosa, undergoing hypnotherapy, were more exceptional to no treatment, placebos, or other alternative treatments.\n\nAmong its many other applications in other medical domains, hypnotism was used therapeutically, by some alienists in the Victorian era, to treat the condition then known as hysteria.\n\nModern hypnotherapy is widely accepted for the treatment of certain habit disorders, to control irrational fears, as well as in the treatment of conditions such as insomnia and addiction. Hypnosis has also been used to enhance recovery from non-psychological conditions such as after surgical procedures, in breast cancer care and even with gastro-intestinal problems, including IBS.\n\nA 2003 meta-analysis on the efficacy of hypnotherapy concluded that \"the efficacy of hypnosis is not verified for a considerable part of the spectrum of psychotherapeutic practice.\n\nIn 2005, a meta-analysis by the Cochrane Collaboration found no evidence that hypnotherapy was more successful than other treatments or no treatment in achieving cessation of smoking for at least six months.\n\nIn 2007, a meta-analysis from the Cochrane Collaboration found that the therapeutic effect of hypnotherapy was \"superior to that of a waiting list control or usual medical management, for abdominal pain and composite primary IBS symptoms, in the short term in patients who fail standard medical therapy\", with no harmful side-effects. However the authors noted that the quality of data available was inadequate to draw any firm conclusions.\n\nTwo Cochrane reviews in 2012 concluded that there was insufficient evidence to support its efficacy in managing the pain of childbirth or post-natal depression.\n\nIn 2016, a literature review published in La Presse Medicale found that there is not sufficient evidence to \"support the efficacy of hypnosis in chronic anxiety disorders\".\n\nThe department of health in the state of Washington regulates hypnotherapists.\n\nIn 2002, the Department for Education and Skills developed National Occupational Standards for hypnotherapy linked to National Vocational Qualifications based on the then National Qualifications Framework under the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority. NCFE, a national awarding body, issues level four national vocational qualification diploma in hypnotherapy. Currently AIM Awards offers a Level 3 Certificate in Hypnotherapy and Counselling Skills at level 3 of the Regulated Qualifications Framework.\n\nThe regulation of the hypnotherapy profession in the UK is at present the main focus of UKCHO, a non-profit umbrella body for hypnotherapy organisations. Founded in 1998 to provide a non-political arena to discuss and implement changes to the profession of hypnotherapy, UKCHO currently represents 9 of the UK's professional hypnotherapy organisations and has developed standards of training for hypnotherapists, along with codes of conduct and practice that all UKCHO registered hypnotherapists are governed by. As a step towards the regulation of the profession, UKCHO's website now includes a National Public Register of Hypnotherapists who have been registered by UKCHO's Member Organisations and are therefore subject to UKCHO's professional standards. Further steps to full regulation of the hypnotherapy profession will be taken in consultation with the Prince's Foundation for Integrated Health.\n\nProfessional hypnotherapy and use of the occupational titles \"hypnotherapist\" or \"clinical hypnotherapist\" are not government-regulated in Australia.\n\nIn 1996, as a result of a three-year research project led by Lindsay B. Yeates, the Australian Hypnotherapists Association (founded in 1949), the oldest hypnotism-oriented professional organization in Australia, instituted a peer-group accreditation system for full-time Australian professional hypnotherapists, the first of its kind in the world, which \"accredit[ed] specific individuals on the basis of their actual demonstrated knowledge and clinical performance; instead of approving particular 'courses' or approving particular 'teaching institutions'\" (Yeates, 1996, p.iv; 1999, p.xiv). The system was further revised in 1999.\n\nAustralian hypnotism/hypnotherapy organizations (including the Australian Hypnotherapists Association) are seeking government regulation similar to other mental health professions. However, the various tiers of Australian government have shown consistently over the last two decades that they are opposed to government legislation and in favour of self-regulation by industry groups.\n"}
{"id": "12062776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12062776", "title": "Ichikukai Dōjō", "text": "Ichikukai Dōjō\n\nThe Ichikukai Dōjō (一九会道場) is a place for training in \"Misogi-no-kokyu-ho\" (a Shinto purification through breathing practice) and Zen meditation. The Misogi practiced at the Ichikukai traces its roots to Inoue Masagane.\n\nThe dojo was founded in 1922 by members of the Tokyo University Rowing Team along with Ogura Tetsuju, the last disciple of swordsman and calligrapher Yamaoka Tesshu. The Ichikukai is perhaps best known for its severity and for the martial artists (esp. aikido) who have trained there . The purpose of training at the Ichikukai is explained by the following, an excerpt from a treatise written by the founding members of the dojo in 1922: \nToward the Building of a New Dojo\n\nOur practice of misogi shugyo is the desperate, ravenous, fierce and relentless seeking of truth and purity. In order to bring forth and strengthen that core most essential to humanity, we break our bones in training. This training is a way to devote body and soul to that quest.\n\nToday’s world is a mess of mixed-up ideas, and young people feel lost. While misogi shugyo does not necessarily solve the problem completely, we believe it does offer a way out of the confusion. Materialistic and emotional concerns have become convoluted and strange, leaving a world populated by masks and empty husks. Many people still huddle behind those masks; alone, afraid, and without hope.\n\nMisogi shugyo is about exploding this dualistic life, and distilling from it the true, genuine and natural state. There is nothing for us now but to strip ourselves naked to the bone, jump in boldly with both feet, and see with our bare eyes what lies at the ground of our being.\n\nTraining at the Ichikukai continues to this day.\n"}
{"id": "20218482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20218482", "title": "Implied license", "text": "Implied license\n\nAn implied license is an unwritten license which permits a party (the licensee) to do something that would normally require the express permission of another party (the licensor). Implied licenses may arise by operation of law from actions by the licensor which lead the licensee to believe that it has the necessary permission.\n\nImplied licenses often arise where the licensee has purchased a physical embodiment of some intellectual property belonging to the licensor, or has paid for its creation, but has not obtained permission to use the intellectual property.\n\n\nIn the United States, implied licenses are usually considered to be of two kinds: either they reflect the intention of the parties, which is inferred from a fact-specific inquiry into the surrounding circumstances, or else they are constructive agreements, in which case the intention of the parties is likely to be immaterial. In reality, there is a continuum between these kinds of implied license and it may be difficult to determine whether the license or contract in question is one which the law implies, irrespective of any protests by the unwilling licensor, or instead one inferred from the whole pattern of factual circumstances including the evidence of intent.\n\nIn England, there is more of a tendency to regard all implied licenses as matters of fact and intent, while what would be a license implied by law in the US is treated under some other branch of substantive law such as the doctrine of non-derogation from grants.\n\nIn both countries, the exhaustion doctrine has the effect of creating an implied license to use a product sold under the \"authority\" of the patentee. It is controversial whether and to what extent contractual expedients can successfully limit the scope of such implied licenses.\n\nThe opposite of an implied license is an \"express license\", which, for some forms of intellectual property, must be in writing. Oral exclusive licenses were permitted, however, under US copyright law before 1978. Oral nonexclusive copyright licenses remain valid under US law. Patent licenses may be oral. Licenses under the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act must be in writing.\n\n"}
{"id": "314455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=314455", "title": "Jean-Baptiste Dubos", "text": "Jean-Baptiste Dubos\n\nJean-Baptiste Dubos (; 14 December 1670 – 23 March 1742), also referred to as l'Abbé Du Bos, was a French author.\nDubos was born in Beauvais. After studying theology, he gave it up in favour of public law and politics. He was employed by M. de Torcy, minister of foreign affairs, and by the regent and Cardinal Dubois in several secret missions, in which he acquitted himself with great success. He was rewarded with a pension and other advantages. Having obtained these, he retired from political life and devoted himself to history and literature. He gained such distinction as an author that in 1720 he was elected a member of the Académie française, of which, in 1723, he was appointed perpetual secretary in succession to André Dacier. He died in Paris, repeating the remark, \"Death is a law, not a punishment.\"\n\nDubos' first work was \"L'Histoire des quatre Gordiens prouvée et illustrée par des médailles\" (Paris, 1695), which, in spite of its ingenuity, did not succeed in convincing most people. At the beginning of the war of 1701 he was charged with different negotiations (both in the Netherlands and England). In an attempt to persuade those countries to adopt a policy of peace, he published a work entitled \"Les Intéréts de l'Angleterre mal entendus dans la guerre présente\" (Amsterdam, 1703). This work contained indiscreet disclosures and predictions that were not fulfilled. The enemy took advantage of the work, and a wag took occasion to remark that the title ought to be read thus: \"Les Intérêts de l'Angleterre mal entendus par l'abbé Dubos\". It is remarkable as containing a distinct prophecy of the revolt of the American colonies from Great Britain.\n\nDubos' next work was \"L'Histoire de la Ligue de Cambray\" (Paris, 1709, 1728 and 1785, 2 vols.), a full, clear and interesting history, commended by Voltaire. In 1734 he published his \"Histoire critique de l'établissement de la monarchie française dans les Gaules\" (3 vols. 4to)--a work the object of which was to prove that the Franks had entered Gaul, not as conquerors, but at the request of the nation, which, according to him, had called them in to govern it. This system, though unfolded with a degree of skill and ability that, at first, procured many zealous partisans, was attacked by Montesquieu at the end of the thirtieth book of the \"Esprit des lois\".\n\nDubos' \"Réflexions critiques sur la poésie et sur la peinture\", published for the first time in 1719 (2 vols, but often reprinted in three volumes), constitute one of the works in which the theory of the arts is explained with the utmost sagacity and discrimination. Like his history of the League of Cambray, it was highly praised by Voltaire. The work was rendered more remarkable by the fact that its author had no practical acquaintance with any one of the arts whose principles he discussed. Besides the works above enumerated, a manifesto of Maximilian II Emanuel, elector of Bavaria, against the emperor Leopold (relative to the succession in Spain) has been attributed to Dubos from the excellence of the style.\n\n\"[O]ne of the greatest wants of man is to have his mind incessantly occupied. The heaviness which quickly attends the inactivity of the mind, is a situation so very disagreeable to man, that he frequently chooses to expose himself to the most painful excesses, rather than be troubled with it.\" \"Critical Reflections\", I. I\n\n"}
{"id": "2566942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2566942", "title": "José Guilherme Merquior", "text": "José Guilherme Merquior\n\nJosé Guilherme Merquior (April 22, 1941 – January 7, 1991) was a Brazilian diplomat, academic, writer, literary critic and philosopher.\n\nHe was a prolific writer, and member of the Academia Brasileira de Letras (the Brazilian Academy of Letters). He had a doctorate in sociology from the London School of Economics, which was directed by Ernest Gellner. Merquior also studied under Claude Lévi-Strauss (whose ideas Merquior would largely repudiate in \"From Prague to Paris\"), and took guidance from the likes of Raymond Aron, Harry Levin, and Arnaldo Momigliano. He published books written directly in French, English, Italian, and his native Portuguese.\n\nMerquior divided his published works in two segments. In one the bulk was criticism \"per se\"; in the other the emphasis was the history of ideas, or more specific investigations like the highly esteemed study of Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Max Weber. Two of his books, \"Foucault\" (1985), an often scathing critique of Michel Foucault for the Fontana Modern Masters series, and \"Western Marxism\" (1986), were described as \"minor classics\" by scholar Gregory R. Johnson.\n\nMerquior was a major supporter of the Fernando Collor de Mello government and wrote many of Collor's public speeches. He died of cancer in January 1991, before Collor's downfall in 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "900467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=900467", "title": "Kazimierz Ajdukiewicz", "text": "Kazimierz Ajdukiewicz\n\nKazimierz Ajdukiewicz (12 December 1890 – 12 April 1963) was a Polish philosopher and logician, a prominent figure in the Lwów–Warsaw school of logic. He originated many novel ideas in semantics. Among these was categorial grammar, a highly flexible framework for the analysis of natural language syntax and (indirectly) semantics that remains a major influence on work in formal linguistics. Ajdukiewicz's fields of research were model theory and the philosophy of science.\n\nAjdukiewicz was born in 1890 in Tarnopol in Galicia, which at that time, due to Partitions of Poland, was annexed by Austria-Hungary (The Austrian Partition). His father was a senior civil servant. Ajdukiewicz studied at the University of Lwów, and lectured there, as well as in Warsaw and in Poznań. He received his PhD degree with the thesis on Kant's philosophy of space. He was Rector of the University of Poznań from 1948 to 1952. He was one of the founders of the journal Studia Logica in its current incarnation, editing it from 1953 to his death.\n\nIn his early epistemological system, which he called Radical Conventionalism, Ajdukiewicz analyzed any language as a set of expressions or sentences, with inferential \"rules of meaning\" that specify the relation of one expression to another, or to external data. There are three kinds of rules: Axiomatic, Deductive, and Empirical. Following the rules, one can map all knowable sentences of a language. However, some languages' vocabularies can produce \"disconnected\" sentences, which are only partly mapped by the \"meaning rules\". Therefore, when one uses a language, even scientific one, a \"conceptual apparatus\", an untranslatable set of meanings, is needed too, and with it a choice of the problems to be settled. For this reason the theory is a form of Conventionalism, and it is radical because even simple experiential reports are exposed to these language-wide considerations. Ajdukiewicz discarded this theory as the 1930s progressed.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16807", "title": "Kim Stanley Robinson", "text": "Kim Stanley Robinson\n\nKim Stanley Robinson (born March 23, 1952) is an American writer of science fiction. He has published nineteen novels and numerous short stories but is best known for his \"Mars\" trilogy. His work has been translated into 24 languages. Many of his novels and stories have ecological, cultural, and political themes running through them and feature scientists as heroes. Robinson has won numerous awards, including the Hugo Award for Best Novel, the Nebula Award for Best Novel and the World Fantasy Award. Robinson's work has been labeled by \"The Atlantic\" as \"the gold-standard of realistic, and highly literary, science-fiction writing.\" According to an article in \"The New Yorker\", Robinson is \"generally acknowledged as one of the greatest living science-fiction writers.\"\n\nRobinson was born in Waukegan, Illinois. He moved to Southern California as a child.\n\nIn 1974, he earned a B.A. in literature from the University of California, San Diego. In 1975, he earned an M.A. in English from Boston University.\n\nIn 1978 Robinson moved to Davis, California to take a break from his graduate studies at UC San Diego. During this time he worked as a bookseller for Orpheus Books. He also taught freshman composition and other courses at University of California, Davis.\n\nIn 1982 Robinson earned a Ph.D. in English from the UC San Diego. His initial Ph.D. advisor was literary critic and Marxist scholar, Fredric Jameson, who told Robinson to read works by Philip K. Dick. Jameson described Dick to Robinson as \"the greatest living American writer.\" Robinson's doctoral thesis, \"The Novels of Philip K. Dick\", was published in 1984 and a hardcover version was published by UMI Research Press. In the 1980s Robinson also spent time with a National Science Foundation team at a research base in Antarctica.\n\nIn 2008, \"Time Magazine\" named Robinson a \"Hero of the Environment\" for his optimistic focus on the future.\n\nIn 2009, Robinson was an instructor at the Clarion Workshop. In 2010, he was the guest of honor at the 68th World Science Fiction Convention, held in Melbourne, Australia. In April 2011, Robinson presented at the second annual Rethinking Capitalism conference, held at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Among other points made, his talk addressed the cyclical nature of capitalism.\n\nRobinson was appointed Muir Environmental Fellow in 2011 by the John Muir College, University of California San Diego.\n\nSheldon Brown described Robinson's novels as ways to explore how nature and culture continuously reformulate one another; \"Three Californias Trilogy\" as California in the future; Washington DC undergoing the impact of climate change in the \"Science in the Capitol\" series; or Mars as a stand-in for Earth in the \"Mars\" trilogy to think about re-engineering on a global scale, both social and natural conditions.\n\nVirtually all of Robinson's novels have an ecological component; sustainability is one of his primary themes (a strong contender for the primary theme would be the nature of a plausible utopia.) The \"Orange County\" trilogy is about the way in which the technological intersects with the natural, highlighting the importance of keeping the two in balance. In the \"Mars\" trilogy, one of the principal divisions among the population of Mars is based on dissenting views on terraforming. Colonists debate whether or not the barren Martian landscape has a similar ecological or spiritual value when compared with a living ecosphere like earth's. \"Forty Signs of Rain\" has an entirely ecological thrust, taking global warming for its principal subject.\n\nRobinson's work often explores alternatives to modern capitalism. In the \"Mars\" trilogy, it is argued that capitalism is an outgrowth of feudalism, which could be replaced in the future by a more democratic economic system. Worker ownership and cooperatives figure prominently in \"Green Mars\" and \"Blue Mars\" as replacements for traditional corporations. The \"Orange County\" trilogy explores similar arrangements; \"Pacific Edge\" includes the idea of attacking the legal framework behind corporate domination to promote social egalitarianism. Tim Kreider writes in the \"New Yorker\" that Robinson may be our greatest political novelist and describes how Robinson uses the \"Mars\" trilogy as a template for a credible utopia.\n\nRobinson's work often portrays characters struggling to preserve and enhance the world around them in an environment characterized by individualism and entrepreneurialism, often facing the political and economic authoritarianism of corporate power acting in this environment. Robinson has been described as anti-capitalist, and his work often portrays a form of frontier capitalism that promotes egalitarian ideals that closely resemble socialist systems, but faced with a capitalism that is maintained by entrenched hegemonic corporations. In particular, his Martian Constitution draws upon social democratic ideals explicitly emphasizing a community-participation element in political and economic life.\n\nRobinson's works often portray the worlds of tomorrow in a manner similar to the mythologized American Western frontier, showing a sentimental affection for the freedom and wildness of the frontier. This aesthetic includes a preoccupation with competing models of political and economic organization.\n\nThe environmental, economic, and social themes in Robinson's oeuvre stand in marked contrast to the right-libertarian science fiction prevalent in much of the genre (Robert A. Heinlein, Poul Anderson, Larry Niven, and Jerry Pournelle being prominent examples), and his work has been called the most successful attempt to reach a mass audience with a left wing and anti-capitalist utopian vision since Ursula K. Le Guin's 1974 novel, \"The Dispossessed\".\n\nRobinson's work often features scientists as heroes. They are portrayed in a mundane way compared to most work featuring scientists: rather than being adventurers or action heroes, Robinson's scientists become critically important because of research discoveries, networking and collaboration with other scientists, political lobbying, or becoming public figures. Robinson captures the joy of scientists as they work at something they care about. The \"Mars\" trilogy and \"The Years of Rice and Salt\" rely heavily on the idea that scientists must take responsibility for ensuring public understanding and responsible use of their discoveries. Robinson's scientists often emerge as the best people to direct public policy on important environmental and technological questions, of which politicians are often ignorant.\n\nIn 2017, in the novel \"New York 2140\" Robinson explored the themes of climate change and global warming, setting the novel in the year 2140 when the New York City he imagines is beset by a 50-foot sea level rise that half-submerges the city.\n\nIn 1982, Robinson married Lisa Howland Nowell, an environmental chemist. They have two sons. Robinson has lived in Washington, D.C., California, and during some of the 1980s, in Switzerland. At times, Robinson was a stay-at-home dad. He now lives in Davis, California in a cohousing community.\n\nRobinson has described himself as an avid backpacker with the Sierra Nevada serving as his home range and a big influence on how he sees the world.\n\nPolitically, Robinson describes himself as a democratic socialist, going on to say that libertarianism has never \"[made] any sense to me, nor sounds attractive as a principle.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "408340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=408340", "title": "Lahiri Mahasaya", "text": "Lahiri Mahasaya\n\nShyama Charan Lahiri () (30 September 1828 – 26 September 1895), best known as Lahiri Mahasaya, was an Indian yogi, guru and a disciple of Mahavatar Babaji. He was also popularly known as \"Yogiraj\" and \"Kashi Baba\". He revived the yogic science of Kriya Yoga when he learned it from Mahavatar Babaji in 1861. Lahiri Mahasaya was also the guru of Yukteswar Giri. \"Mahasaya\" is a Sanskrit, spiritual title translated as 'large-minded'. He was unusual among Indian holy people in that he was a householder — marrying, raising a family, and working as an accountant for the Military Engineering Department of the British Indian government. Lahiri lived with his family in Varanasi rather than in a temple or monastery. He achieved a substantial reputation among 19th century Hindu religionists.\n\nHe became known in the West through Paramahansa Yogananda, a disciple of Yukteswar Giri, and through Yogananda's \"Autobiography of a Yogi\". Yogananda wrote that Lahiri was chosen by Mahavatar Babaji to reintroduce the lost practice of Kriya Yoga to the world. Lahiri's disciples included both of Yogananda's parents as well as Yogananda's own guru. Lahiri Mahasaya prophesied that the infant Yogananda would become a yogi, and \"As a spiritual engine, he will carry many souls to God's kingdom.'\"\nTrailanga Swami, the famous saint of India, had praised Lahiri Mahasaya in the following words, “Lahiri Mahasaya is like a divine kitten, remaining wherever the Cosmic Mother has placed him. While dutifully playing the part of a worldly man, he has received that perfect Self-realization which I have sought by renouncing everything – even my loincloth!”\n\nLahiri was born into a Brahmin family in the Ghurni village (presently a neighbourhood of Krishnanagar town) in Nadia district of Bengal Province. He was the youngest son of Muktakashi, wife of Gaur Mohan Lahiri. His mother died when he was a child — there is very little known about her, except that she was a devotee of Lord Shiva. At the age of three or four, he was often seen sitting in meditation, with his body buried in the sand up to his neck. When Lahiri was five, the family's ancestral home was lost in a flood, so the family moved to Varanasi, where he would spend most of his life.\n\nAs a child, he studied Urdu and Hindi, gradually moving on to Bengali, Sanskrit, Persian, French and English at the Government Sanskrit College, along with study of the Vedas. Reciting the Vedas, bathing in the Ganges, and worship were part of his daily routine.\n\nIn 1846, he was married to Srimati Kashi Moni. They had two sons, Tincouri and Ducouri, and three daughters, Harimoti, Harikamini and Harimohini. His two sons were considered saints. His wife became his disciple and was affectionately called by Guru Ma. His work as an accountant in the Military Engineering Department of the English government took him all over India. After the death of his father, he took on the role of supporting the entire family in Varanasi.\n\nIn 1861, Lahiri was transferred to Ranikhet, in the foothills of the Himalayas. One day, while walking in the hills, he heard a voice calling to him. After climbing further, he met his Guru Mahavatar Babaji, who initiated him into the techniques of Kriya Yoga. Babaji told Lahiri that the rest of his life was to be given to spreading the Kriya message.\n\nSoon after, Lahiri Mahasaya returned to Varanasi, where he began initiating sincere seekers into the path of Kriya Yoga. Over time, more and more people flocked to receive the teachings of Kriya from Lahiri. He organized many study groups and gave regular discourses on the Bhagavad Gita at his \"Gita Assemblies.\" He freely gave Kriya initiation to those of every faith, including Hindus, Muslims, and Christians, at a time when caste bigotry was very strong. He encouraged his students to adhere to the tenets of their own faith, adding the Kriya techniques to what they already were practicing.\n\nHe continued his dual role of accountant and supporter to his family, and a teacher of Kriya Yoga, until 1886, when he was able to retire on a pension. More and more visitors came to see him at this time. He seldom left his sitting room, available to all who sought his \"darshan\". He often exhibited the breathless state of superconscious \"samādhi\".\n\nOver the years he gave initiation to gardeners, postmen, kings, maharajas, sannyasis, householders, people considered to be lower caste, Christians, and Muslims. At that time, it was unusual for a strict Brahmin to associate so closely with people from all castes.\n\nSome of his notable disciples included Panchanan Bhattacharya, Yukteswar Giri, Pranabananda, Keshavananda Brahmachari, Bhupendranath Sanyal and the parents of Paramahansa Yogananda. Others who received initiation into Kriya Yoga from Lahiri included Bhaskarananda Saraswati of Benares, Balananda Brahmachari of Deogarh, Maharaja Iswari Narayan Sinha Bahadur of Benares and his son.\n\nBiographer and Yogacharya Dr. Ashoke Kumar Chatterjee, in his book \"Purana Purusha\" depicts that Lahiri initiated Sai Baba of Shirdi into Kriya Yoga, based on a passage in Lahiri's 26 secret diary. He gave permission to one disciple, Panchanan Bhattacharya, to start an institution in Kolkata to spread the teachings of Kriya Yoga. The Arya Mission Institution published commentaries by Lahiri on the Bhagavad Gita, along with other spiritual books, including a Bengali translation of the Gita. Lahiri himself had printed thousands of small books with excerpted passages from the Gita, in Bengali and Hindi, and distributed them for free, an unusual idea at that time.\n\nIn 1895 he began gathering his disciples, letting some of them know that he would soon be leaving the body. Moments before his passing, he said simply, \"I am going home. Be comforted; I shall rise again.\" He then turned his body around three times, faced north, and consciously left his body, entering \"mahasamadhi\". Lahiri Mahasaya died on 26 September 1895, four days before turning 67. He was cremated according to Hindu Brahmin rites at Manikarnika Ghat in Varanasi.\n\nThe central spiritual practice which he taught to his disciples was Kriya Yoga, a series of inner pranayama practices that quickly hasten the spiritual growth of the practitioner. He taught this technique to all sincere seekers, regardless of their religious background. In response to many types of problems that disciples would bring him, his advice would be the same — to practice more Kriya Yoga.\nRegarding Kriya Yoga, he said:\nAlways remember that you belong to no one, and no one belongs to you. Reflect that some day you will suddenly have to leave everything in this world–so make the acquaintanceship of God now. Prepare yourself for the coming astral journey of death by daily riding in the balloon of God-perception. Through delusion you are perceiving yourself as a bundle of flesh and bones, which at best is a nest of troubles. Meditate unceasingly, that you may quickly behold yourself as the Infinite Essence, free from every form of misery. Cease being a prisoner of the body; using the secret key of Kriya, learn to escape into Spirit.\n\nHe taught that Kriya practice would give the yogi direct experience of truth, unlike mere theoretical discussion of the scriptures, and to:\nSolve all your problems through meditation. Exchange unprofitable religious speculations for actual God-contact. Clear your mind of dogmatic theological debris; let in the fresh, healing waters of direct perception. Attune yourself to the active inner Guidance; the Divine Voice has the answer to every dilemma of life. Though man’s ingenuity for getting himself into trouble appears to be endless, the Infinite Succor is no less resourceful.\n\nLahiri often spoke of the Guru-disciple relationship in the context of Kriya Yoga. He always gave the Kriya technique as an initiation, and taught that the technique was only properly learned as part of the Guru-disciple relationship. Frequently he referred to the realization that comes through practicing Kriya as taught by the Guru, and the grace that comes through the 'transmission' of the Guru. He also taught that the grace of the Guru comes automatically if his instructions are followed. He suggested contacting the Guru during meditation, counseling that it wasn't always necessary to see his physical form.\n\nRegarding the necessity of the help of a Guru to deep yoga practice, he said:\nIt is absolutely necessary for all devotees to totally surrender to their Guru. The more one can surrender to the Guru, the more he can ascertain the subtlest of the subtle techniques of yoga from his Guru. Without surrender, nothing can be derived from the Guru.\n\nThe relationship Lahiri Mahasaya had with his own disciples was very individual. He even varied the way he taught the Kriya Yoga practice to each disciple, depending on their individual spiritual needs.\n\nLahiri taught that if one is earning an honest living and practicing honesty, then there was no need to alter one's external life in any significant way in order to become aware of God's presence. If a student neglected his worldly duties, he would correct him. It was extremely rare for him to advise \"sannyas\", or complete worldly renunciation by becoming a swami. Instead, he advised marriage for most of his disciples along with Kriya Yoga practice.\n\nHe generally eschewed organized religion, but he allowed at least one advanced disciple, Panchanan Bhattacharya, to open the \"Arya Mission Institution\" in Kolkata to spread Kriya teachings. Other disciples of Lahiri also started organizations to spread the Kriya Yoga message, including Yukteswar Giri with his \"Satsanga Sabha.\" Generally, he preferred Kriya to spread naturally.\n\nLahiri frequently taught the \"Bhagavad Gita\". His regular Gita assemblies, called \"Gita Sabha\", attracted many disciples. He asked several of his close disciples to write interpretations of the Gita by tuning in to his own realization. Lahiri taught that the Battle of Kurukshetra was really an inner psychological battle, and that the different characters in the battle were actually psychological traits within the struggling yogi. This understanding would later become the foundation of Paramahansa Yogananda's commentaries on the Bhagavad Gita \"\"God Talks with Arjuna: The Bhagavad Gita\"\". He also taught that the epic story of the \"Mahabharata\" showed the soul's descent into matter, and its challenges in retracing its way back to spirit.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "455465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455465", "title": "Law Society of Ontario", "text": "Law Society of Ontario\n\nThe Law Society of Ontario (LSO; French: \"Barreau de l'Ontario\") is the law society responsible for the self-regulation of lawyers and paralegals in the Canadian province of Ontario. Founded in 1797 as The Law Society of Upper Canada (LSUC; French: \"Barreau du Haut-Canada\"), the society adopted its current name after a majority vote by its governing body in November 2017. The change was formalized on May 8, 2018 by amendment to provincial legislation.\n\nThe Law Society was created in 1797 to regulate the legal profession in the British colony of Upper Canada and is the oldest self-governing body in North America. Its first home was at Wilson's Hotel at Newark (now Niagara-on-the-Lake), then from 1799 to 1832 at various temporary locations at York (Toronto) until Osgoode Hall was built. The Law Society has continued to retain its original name, even though Upper Canada ceased to exist as a political entity in 1841. The Society governed the legal profession in the coterminous Canada West from 1841 to 1867, and in Ontario since confederation in 1867.\n\nThe Law Society of Upper Canada's creation by an act of the Legislative Assembly of Upper Canada came some 20 years before the earliest such self-governing association in any other Canadian province or territory. Its creation was an innovation in the English-speaking world, and it became the model for law societies across Canada and the United States. It is one of the oldest law societies in the English-speaking world.\n\nIn 1994, the Law Society affirmed its role by adopting this Role Statement: \"The Law Society of Upper Canada exists to govern the legal profession in the public interest by ensuring that the people of Ontario are served by lawyers who meet high standards of learning, competence and professional conduct, and upholding the independence, integrity and honour of the legal profession, for the purpose of advancing the cause of justice and the rule of law.\" \n\nThe Law Society faced calls to change the name Upper Canada. Benchers have voted to drop the name and replace it with a new one. On November 2, 2017, the Society's governing body (Convocation) chose \"Law Society of Ontario\" as the new name. The name change was made official following amendments to the \"Law Society Act\" as part of the 2018 provincial budget implementation bill.\n\nThe Law Society regulates the more than 50,000 lawyers in Ontario. It is responsible for ensuring that lawyers are both ethical and competent. The Society has the power to set standards for admission into the profession. It is empowered to discipline lawyers who violate those standards. Available sanctions range from admonitions to disbarment. It is based in Toronto, at Osgoode Hall.\n\nEffective May 1, 2007, as a result of amendments to Ontario's \"Law Society Act\", the Law Society regulates more than 8,000 paralegal licensees in Ontario. Paralegals are licensed to provide limited legal services, such as providing representation before provincial tribunals.\n\nThe Law Society Tribunal is an independent adjudicative tribunal within the Law Society of Ontario that processes, hears and decides regulatory cases about Ontario lawyers and paralegals. It was formally created on March 12, 2014 to improve the Law Society’s hearing process. The Tribunal’s core values are fairness, quality, transparency and timeliness. It decides a variety of kinds of cases, including alleged misconduct by lawyers and paralegals, whether applicants to be lawyers and paralegals have the required good character to be granted a licence, and alleged incapacity due to health reasons.\nTribunal adjudicators, who include benchers and other lawyer, paralegal and lay appointees, are tasked with coming to decisions that are fair, just and in the public interest. Orders, upcoming hearings, and reasons for decisions are all publicly available.\nDavid A. Wright is the current Chair of the Law Society Tribunal. Vice-Chairs are Raj Anand (Hearing Division) and Christopher D. Bredt (Appeal Division).\n\nThe Law Society is headed by a Treasurer. He or she is selected by the benchers, who comprise \"Convocation\" – in effect, the Society's board of directors, as the Society is an Ontario Corporation without share capital. All lawyer-benchers are elected by the Society's members, and eight lay benchers are appointed by the provincial government. The current Treasurer is Malcolm M. Mercer (elected on June 28, 2018), and the current CEO of the Law Society is Diana Miles.\n\nSection 12(2) of the \"Law Society Act\", R.S.O. 1990, provides that the Attorney General of Ontario is a bencher of Convocation, while section 13(1) provides that the Attorney General is the \"Guardian of the Public Interest\" and, as such, may require the production of any document or thing possessed by the regulator. The regulator falls under the supervision of the Ministry of the Attorney General, according to the ministry's web site.\n\nAs of 2018, the Law Society has more than 600 staff. It is frequently named one of Greater Toronto's Top Employers by Mediacorp Canada Inc., most recently in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "1356992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1356992", "title": "Ledi Sayadaw", "text": "Ledi Sayadaw\n\nLedi Sayadaw U Ñaṇadhaja (, ; 1 December 1846 – 27 June 1923) was an influential Theravada Buddhist monk. He was recognized from a young age as being developed in both the theory (Abhidharma) and practice of Buddhism and so was revered as being scholarly. He wrote many books on Dhamma in Burmese and these were accessible even to a serious lay person, hence he was responsible for spreading Dhamma to all levels of society and reviving the traditional practice of vipassana meditation, making it more available for renunciates and lay people alike.\n\nSayadaw began his studies at age 20 in Mandalay at Thanjaun. While there he was considered to be a bright and ambitious young monk but his work was scholarly; there is no evidence that Sayadaw engaged in a serious meditation practice during his years in Mandalay. Leaving Mandalay after a great fire in 1883 caused the loss of his home and his written work to that time, Sayadaw returned to the village of his youth.\n\nSoon, Sayadaw founded a forest monastery in the \"Ledi forest\" and began practicing and teaching intensive meditation. It was from this monastery that he would take his name, Ledi Sayadaw, meaning \"respected teacher of the Ledi forest.\" In 1885, Ledi Sayadaw wrote the \"Nwa-myitta-sa\" (), a poetic prose letter that argued that Burmese Buddhists should not kill cattle and eat beef, since Burmese farmers depended on them as beasts of burden to maintain their livelihoods, that the marketing of beef for human consumption threatened the extinction of buffalo and cattle and that the practice and was ecologically unsound. He subsequently led successful beef boycotts during the colonial era, despite the presence of beef eating among locals and influenced a generation of Burmese nationalists in adopting this stance.\n\nIn 1900, Sayadaw gave up control of the monastery and pursued more focused meditation in the mountain caves near the banks of the Chindwin River.\n\nAt other times he traveled throughout Burma. Because of his knowledge of \"pariyatti\" (theory), he was able to write many books on Dhamma in both Pali and Burmese languages such as, \"Paramattha-dipani\" (\"Manual of Ultimate Truth\"), \"Nirutta-dipani\", a book on Pali grammar and \"The Manuals of Dhamma\". At the same time he kept alive the pure tradition of \"patipatti\" (practice) by teaching the technique of Vipassana to a few people.\n\nLedi Sayadaw was one of the foremost Burmese Buddhist figures of his age. He was instrumental in reviving the traditional practice of Vipassana, making it more available for renunciates and lay people alike. Many of his works are still available, including in English through the Buddhist Publication Society.\n\nAmong Ledi's disciples, Theik-cha-daung Sayadaw(1871-1931) and Mohnyin Sayadaw(1872-1964) are well-known. Theik-cha-daung Sayadaw taught an illiterate farmer and layman Saya Thet Gyi, who would go on to receive training from Ledi himself. Thetgyi's lineage continues to the present, the most prominent being U Wunnathiri and U Ba Khin and his disciples, others include SN Goenka.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10637866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10637866", "title": "Loren Mosher", "text": "Loren Mosher\n\nLoren Richard Mosher (September 3, 1933, Monterey, California – July 10, 2004, Berlin) was an American psychiatrist, clinical professor of psychiatry, expert on schizophrenia and the chief of the Center for Studies of Schizophrenia in the National Institute of Mental Health (1968–1980). Mosher spent his professional career advocating for humane and effective treatment for people diagnosed as having schizophrenia and was instrumental in developing an innovative, residential, home-like, non-hospital, non-drug treatment model for newly identified acutely psychotic persons.\n\nIn the 1970s, Mosher, then Chief of the newly formed Center for Schizophrenia Research, wrote a grant to obtain funding for a novel idea for treating people diagnosed with schizophrenia; an intensive psychosocial milieu-based residential treatment known as the Soteria Project. The results of the study were remarkable and showed that people with schizophrenia did in fact recover from the illness without the use of neuroleptics in a supportive home-like environment.\n\nProgressively vocal in his opposition to the prevailing psychiatric practices of the time and the increasing reliance on pharmaceuticals for treatment, Mosher managed to anger and isolate himself from many of his colleagues at the National Institute of Mental Health, and was finally dismissed from his position in 1980. Disillusioned with the field, he wrote a very public letter of resignation from the American Psychiatric Association in 1998, stating that \"After nearly three decades as a member it is with a mixture of pleasure and disappointment that I submit this letter of resignation from the American Psychiatric Association. The major reason for this action is my belief that I am actually resigning from the American Psychopharmacological Association. Luckily, the organization's true identity requires no change in the acronym.\"\n\nLoren Mosher was born on September 3, 1933, in Monterey, California, to the married couple of a teacher and boat builder. He earned his undergraduate degree from Stanford University and his medical degree from Harvard University, starting work at NIMH in 1964. He undertook research training at the Tavistock Clinic in London from 1966 to 1967 and developed an interest in alternative treatments for schizophrenia.\n\nBefore conceiving Soteria, Mosher supervised a ward in a psychiatric hospital at Yale University as its assistant professor, prescribed neuroleptics and was not “against” them. But by 1968, the year Mosher received the position of director of the Center for Schizophrenia Studies at the NIMH, he got convinced that benefits of neuroleptics were overhyped.\n\nThe house, known as Soteria, was opened in an area of San Jose, California, in April 1971. Mosher believed that the violent and controlling atmosphere of psychiatric hospitals and the over-use of drugs hindered recovery. Despite its success (it achieved superior results than the standard medical treatment with drugs), the Soteria Project closed in 1983 when, according to Loren Mosher and Robert Whitaker further funding was denied because of the politics of psychiatry that was increasingly controlled by the influence of pharmaceutical companies.\n\nMosher is said to have had a far more nuanced view of the use of drugs than has been generally thought, and did not reject drugs altogether but insisted they be used as a last resort and in far lower doses than usual in the United States.\n\nAfter dismissal from NIMH, he taught psychiatry at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences in Bethesda and became the head of the public mental health system in Montgomery County, Maryland. In Maryland, he started a crisis house in Rockville, McAuliffe House, based on Soteria principles.\n\nDuring the Ritalin phenomenon of the 1990s, he was often featured as a dissenting view in scores of articles. He was the founder and first editor in chief of \"Schizophrenia Bulletin\".\n\nMosher edited or co-authored some books, including \"Community Mental Health: A Practical Guide\", and published more than 100 reviews and articles. He held professorships and ran mental health programmes on both the US coasts. Mosher also headed his own consulting company, Soteria Associates, providing research, forensic and mental health consultation and cooperated for years with numerous advocacy groups, including the psychiatric survivor group MindFreedom International. He wrote a preface to Peter Lehmann's book \"Coming off Psychiatric Drugs\" (2004).\n\nIn 1996, he left Washington for San Diego. He worked as a clinical professor of psychiatry for the University of California at San Diego medical school.\n\nHe was married to, and later divorced, Irene Carleton Mosher.\n\nAt the time of his death, he was in Berlin for experimental cancer treatment.\n\nAmong survivors are his wife, Judy Schreiber, three children from the first marriage, a granddaughter, and two brothers.\n\nHis work is archived at Stanford University and can be accessed via their website. Anyone interested in further pursuing his work can arrange to have it brought to the Stanford Green Library.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "228980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228980", "title": "Martin Buber", "text": "Martin Buber\n\nMartin Buber (; ; ; February 8, 1878 –\nJune 13, 1965) was an Austrian-born Israeli Jewish philosopher best known for his philosophy of dialogue, a form of existentialism centered on the distinction between the I–Thou relationship and the I–It relationship. Born in Vienna, Buber came from a family of observant Jews, but broke with Jewish custom to pursue secular studies in philosophy. In 1902, he became the editor of the weekly \"Die Welt\", the central organ of the Zionist movement, although he later withdrew from organizational work in Zionism. In 1923, Buber wrote his famous essay on existence, \"Ich und Du\" (later translated into English as \"I and Thou\"), and in 1925, he began translating the Hebrew Bible into the German language.\n\nHe was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature ten times, and Nobel Peace Prize seven times.\n\nMartin (Hebrew name: \"מָרְדֳּכַי,\" \"Mordechai\") Buber was born in Vienna to an Orthodox Jewish family. Buber was a direct descendant of the 16th-century rabbi Meir Katzenellenbogen, known as the Maharam of Padua. Karl Marx is another notable relative.After the divorce of his parents when he was three years old, he was raised by his grandfather in Lvov. His grandfather, Solomon Buber, was a scholar of Midrash and Rabbinic Literature. At home, Buber spoke Yiddish and German. In 1892, Buber returned to his father's house in Lemberg, today's Lviv, Ukraine.\n\nDespite Buber's connection to the Davidic line as a descendant of Katzenellenbogen, a personal religious crisis led him to break with Jewish religious customs. He began reading Immanuel Kant, Søren Kierkegaard, and Friedrich Nietzsche. The latter two, in particular, inspired him to pursue studies in philosophy. In 1896, Buber went to study in Vienna (philosophy, art history, German studies, philology).\n\nIn 1898, he joined the Zionist movement, participating in congresses and organizational work. In 1899, while studying in Zürich, Buber met his future wife, Paula Winkler, a \"brilliant Catholic writer from a Bavarian peasant family\" who later converted to Judaism.\n\nBuber, initially, supported and celebrated the Great War as a 'world historical mission' for Germany along with Jewish intellectuals to civilize the Near East.\n\nIn 1930, Buber became an honorary professor at the University of Frankfurt am Main, but resigned from his professorship in protest immediately after Adolf Hitler came to power in 1933. He then founded the Central Office for Jewish Adult Education, which became an increasingly important body as the German government forbade Jews from public education. In 1938, Buber left Germany and settled in Jerusalem, Mandate Palestine, receiving a professorship at Hebrew University and lecturing in anthropology and introductory sociology.\n\nBuber's wife Paula died in 1958, and he died at his home in the Talbiya neighborhood of Jerusalem on June 13, 1965. They had two children: a son, Rafael Buber, and a daughter, Eva Strauss-Steinitz.\n\nBuber's evocative, sometimes poetic, writing style marked the major themes in his work: the retelling of Hasidic and Chinese tales, Biblical commentary, and metaphysical dialogue. A cultural Zionist, Buber was active in the Jewish and educational communities of Germany and Israel. He was also a staunch supporter of a binational solution in Palestine, and, after the establishment of the Jewish state of Israel, of a regional federation of Israel and Arab states. His influence extends across the humanities, particularly in the fields of social psychology, social philosophy, and religious existentialism.\n\nBuber's attitude toward Zionism was tied to his desire to promote a vision of \"Hebrew humanism\". According to Laurence J. Silberstein, the terminology of \"Hebrew humanism\" was coined to \"distinguish [Buber's] form of nationalism from that of the official Zionist movement\" and to point to how \"Israel's problem was but a distinct form of the universal human problem. Accordingly, the task of Israel as a distinct nation was inexorably linked to the task of humanity in general\".\n\nApproaching Zionism from his own personal viewpoint, Buber disagreed with Theodor Herzl about the political and cultural direction of Zionism. Herzl envisioned the goal of Zionism in a nation-state, but did not consider Jewish culture or religion necessary. In contrast, Buber believed the potential of Zionism was for social and spiritual enrichment. For example, Buber argued that following the formation of the Israeli state, there would need to be reforms to Judaism: \"We need someone who would do for Judaism what Pope John XXIII has done for the Catholic Church\". Herzl and Buber would continue, in mutual respect and disagreement, to work towards their respective goals for the rest of their lives.\n\nIn 1902, Buber became the editor of the weekly \"Die Welt\", the central organ of the Zionist movement. However, a year later he became involved with the Jewish Hasidim movement. Buber admired how the Hasidic communities actualized their religion in daily life and culture. In stark contrast to the busy Zionist organizations, which were always mulling political concerns, the Hasidim were focused on the values which Buber had long advocated for Zionism to adopt. In 1904, he withdrew from much of his Zionist organizational work, and devoted himself to study and writing. In that year, he published his thesis, \"Beiträge zur Geschichte des Individuationsproblems\", on Jakob Böhme and Nikolaus Cusanus.\n\nIn the early 1920s, Martin Buber started advocating a binational Jewish-Arab state, stating that the Jewish people should proclaim \"its desire to live in peace and brotherhood with the Arab people, and to develop the common homeland into a republic in which both peoples will have the possibility of free development\".\n\nBuber rejected the idea of Zionism as just another national movement, and wanted instead to see the creation of an exemplary society; a society which would not, he said, be characterized by Jewish domination of the Arabs. It was necessary for the Zionist movement to reach a consensus with the Arabs even at the cost of the Jews remaining a minority in the country. In 1925, he was involved in the creation of the organization Brit Shalom (Covenant of Peace), which advocated the creation of a binational state, and throughout the rest of his life, he hoped and believed that Jews and Arabs one day would live in peace in a joint nation. In 1942, he co‑founded the Ihud party, which advocated a bi-nationalist program. Nevertheless, he was connected with decades of friendship to Zionists and philosophers such as Chaim Weizmann, Max Brod, Hugo Bergman, and Felix Weltsch, who were close friends of his from old European times in Prague, Berlin, and Vienna to the Jerusalem of the 1940s through the 1960s.\n\nAfter the establishment of Israel in 1948, Buber advocated Israel's participation in a federation of \"Near East\" states wider than just Palestine.\n\nFrom 1906 until 1914, Buber published editions of Hasidic, mystical, and mythic texts from Jewish and world sources. In 1916, he moved from Berlin to Heppenheim.\n\nDuring World War I, he helped establish the Jewish National Committee to improve the condition of Eastern European Jews. During that period he became the editor of \"Der Jude\" (German for \"The Jew\"), a Jewish monthly (until 1924). In 1921, Buber began his close relationship with Franz Rosenzweig. In 1922, he and Rosenzweig co-operated in Rosenzweig's House of Jewish Learning, known in Germany as \"Lehrhaus\".\n\nIn 1923, Buber wrote his famous essay on existence, \"Ich und Du\" (later translated into English as \"I and Thou\"). Though he edited the work later in his life, he refused to make substantial changes. In 1925, he began, in conjunction with Franz Rosenzweig, translating the Hebrew Bible into German. He himself called this translation \"Verdeutschung\" (\"Germanification\"), since it does not always use literary German language, but instead attempts to find new dynamic (often newly invented) equivalent phrasing to respect the multivalent Hebrew original. Between 1926 and 1930, Buber co-edited the quarterly \"Die Kreatur\" (\"The Creature\").\n\nIn 1930, Buber became an honorary professor at the University of Frankfurt am Main. He resigned in protest from his professorship immediately after Adolf Hitler came to power in 1933. On October 4, 1933, the Nazi authorities forbade him to lecture. In 1935, he was expelled from the \"Reichsschrifttumskammer\" (the National Socialist authors' association). He then founded the Central Office for Jewish Adult Education, which became an increasingly important body, as the German government forbade Jews to attend public education. The Nazi administration increasingly obstructed this body.\n\nFinally, in 1938, Buber left Germany, and settled in Jerusalem, then capital of Mandate Palestine. He received a professorship at Hebrew University, there lecturing in anthropology and introductory sociology. The lectures he gave during the first semester were published in the book \"The problem of man\" (\"Das Problem des Menschen\"); in these lectures he discusses how the question \"What is Man?\" became the central one in philosophical anthropology. He participated in the discussion of the Jews' problems in Palestine and of the Arab question – working out of his Biblical, philosophic, and Hasidic work.\n\nHe became a member of the group \"Ihud\", which aimed at a bi-national state for Arabs and Jews in Palestine. Such a binational confederation was viewed by Buber as a more proper fulfillment of Zionism than a solely Jewish state. In 1946, he published his work \"Paths in Utopia\", in which he detailed his communitarian socialist views and his theory of the \"dialogical community\" founded upon interpersonal \"dialogical relationships\".\n\nAfter World War II, Buber began lecture tours in Europe and the United States. In 1952, he argued with Jung over the existence of God.\n\nBuber is famous for his thesis of dialogical existence, as he described in the book \"I and Thou\". However, his work dealt with a range of issues including religious consciousness, modernity, the concept of evil, ethics, education, and Biblical hermeneutics.\n\nBuber rejected the label of \"philosopher\" or \"theologian\", claiming he was not interested in ideas, only personal experience, and could not discuss God, but only relationships to God.\n\nPolitically, Buber's social philosophy on points of prefiguration aligns with that of anarchism, though Buber explicitly disavowed the affiliation in his lifetime and justified the existence of a state under limited conditions.\n\nIn \"I and Thou\", Buber introduced his thesis on human existence. Inspired by Feuerbach's \"The Essence of Christianity\" and Kierkegaard's \"Single One\", Buber worked upon the premise of existence as encounter. He explained this philosophy using the word pairs of \"Ich-Du\" and \"Ich-Es\" to categorize the modes of consciousness, interaction, and being through which an individual engages with other individuals, inanimate objects, and all reality in general. Theologically, he associated the first with the Jewish Jesus and the second with the apostle Paul (formerly Saul of Tarsus, a Jew). Philosophically, these word pairs express complex ideas about modes of being—particularly how a person exists and actualizes that existence. As Buber argues in \"I and Thou\", a person is at all times engaged with the world in one of these modes.\n\nThe generic motif Buber employs to describe the dual modes of being is one of dialogue (\"Ich-Du\") and monologue (\"Ich-Es\"). The concept of communication, particularly language-oriented communication, is used both in describing dialogue/monologue through metaphors and expressing the interpersonal nature of human existence.\n\n\"Ich‑Du\" (\"I‑Thou\" or \"I‑You\") is a relationship that stresses the mutual, holistic existence of two beings. It is a concrete encounter, because these beings meet one another in their authentic existence, without any qualification or objectification of one another. Even imagination and ideas do not play a role in this relation. In an I–Thou encounter, infinity and universality are made actual (rather than being merely concepts). Buber stressed that an \"Ich‑Du\" relationship lacks any composition (e. g., structure) and communicates no content (e. g., information). Despite the fact that \"Ich‑Du\" cannot be proven to happen as an event (e. g., it cannot be measured), Buber stressed that it is real and perceivable. A variety of examples are used to illustrate \"Ich‑Du\" relationships in daily life—two lovers, an observer and a cat, the author and a tree, and two strangers on a train. Common English words used to describe the \"Ich‑Du\" relationship include encounter, meeting, dialogue, mutuality, and exchange.\n\nOne key \"Ich‑Du\" relationship Buber identified was that which can exist between a human being and God. Buber argued that this is the only way in which it is possible to interact with God, and that an \"Ich‑Du\" relationship with anything or anyone connects in some way with the eternal relation to God.\n\nTo create this I–Thou relationship with God, a person has to be open to the idea of such a relationship, but not actively pursue it. The pursuit of such a relation creates qualities associated with It‑ness, and so would prevent an I‑You relation, limiting it to I‑It. Buber claims that if we are open to the I–Thou, God eventually comes to us in response to our welcome. Also, because the God Buber describes is completely devoid of qualities, this I–Thou relationship lasts as long as the individual wills it. When the individual finally returns to the I‑It way of relating, this acts as a barrier to deeper relationship and community.\n\nThe \"Ich-Es\" (\"I‑It\") relationship is nearly the opposite of \"Ich‑Du\". Whereas in \"Ich‑Du\" the two beings encounter one another, in an \"Ich‑Es\" relationship the beings do not actually meet. Instead, the \"I\" confronts and qualifies an idea, or conceptualization, of the being in its presence and treats that being as an object. All such objects are considered merely mental representations, created and sustained by the individual mind. This is based partly on Kant's theory of phenomenon, in that these objects reside in the cognitive agent’s mind, existing only as thoughts. Therefore, the \"Ich‑Es\" relationship is in fact a relationship with oneself; it is not a dialogue, but a monologue.\n\nIn the \"Ich-Es\" relationship, an individual treats other things, people, etc., as objects to be used and experienced. Essentially, this form of objectivity relates to the world in terms of the self – how an object can serve the individual’s interest.\n\nBuber argued that human life consists of an oscillation between \"Ich‑Du\" and \"Ich‑Es\", and that in fact \"Ich‑Du\" experiences are rather few and far between. In diagnosing the various perceived ills of modernity (e. g., isolation, dehumanization, etc.), Buber believed that the expansion of a purely analytic, material view of existence was at heart an advocation of \"Ich‑Es\" relations - even between human beings. Buber argued that this paradigm devalued not only existents, but the meaning of all existence.\n\n\"Ich und Du\" has been translated from the original German into many other languages. However, because Buber's use of German was highly idiomatic and often unconventional, there has naturally been debate on how best to convey the complex messages in his text. One critical debate in the English-speaking world has centered on the correct translation of the key word pairs \"Ich-Du\" and \"Ich-Es\". In the German, the word \"Du\" is used, while in the English two different translations are used: \"Thou\" (used in Ronald Smith's version) and \"You\" (used by Walter Kaufmann). The key problem is how to translate the very personal, even intimate German \"Du\", which has no direct equivalent in Modern English. Smith argued that \"Thou\" invokes the theological and reverential implications which Buber intended (e. g., Buber describes God as the eternal \"Du\"). Kaufmann asserted that this wording was archaic and impersonal, offering \"You\" because (like the German \"Du\") it has colloquial usage in intimate conversation.\n\nDespite this debate, Buber’s book is widely known in the English-speaking world as \"I and Thou\", perhaps because Smith's translation appeared years before Kaufmann's. However, both translations are widely available.\n\nBuber was a scholar, interpreter, and translator of Hasidic lore. He viewed Hasidism as a source of cultural renewal for Judaism, frequently citing examples from the Hasidic tradition that emphasized community, interpersonal life, and meaning in common activities (e. g., a worker's relation to his tools). The Hasidic ideal, according to Buber, emphasized a life lived in the unconditional presence of God, where there was no distinct separation between daily habits and religious experience. This was a major influence on Buber's philosophy of anthropology, which considered the basis of human existence as dialogical.\n\nIn 1906, Buber published \"Die Geschichten des Rabbi Nachman\", a collection of the tales of the Rabbi Nachman of Breslov, a renowned Hasidic \"rebbe\", as interpreted and retold in a Neo-Hasidic fashion by Buber. Two years later, Buber published \"Die Legende des Baalschem\" (stories of the Baal Shem Tov), the founder of Hasidism.\n\nBuber's interpretation of the Hasidic tradition, however, has been criticized by Chaim Potok for its romanticization. In the introduction to Buber's \"Tales of the Hasidim\", Potok claims that Buber overlooked Hasidism's \"charlatanism, obscurantism, internecine quarrels, its heavy freight of folk superstition and pietistic excesses, its tzadik worship, its vulgarized and attenuated reading of Lurianic Kabbalah\". Even more severe is the criticism that Buber de-emphasized the importance of the Jewish Law in Hasidism.\n\n\n\"Chinesische Geister- und Liebesgeschichten\" included the first German translation ever made of \"Strange Stories from a Chinese Studio\". Alex Page translated the \"Chinesische Geister- und Liebesgeschichten\" as \"Chinese Tales\", published in 1991 by Humanities Press.\n\n\"Werke\" 3 volumes (1962–1964)\n\n\"Martin Buber Werkausgabe\" (MBW). Berliner Akademie der Wissenschaften / Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities, ed. Paul Mendes-Flohr & Peter Schäfer with Martina Urban; 21 volumes planned (2001–)\n\n\"Briefwechsel aus sieben Jahrzehnten 1897–1965\" (1972–1975)\n\nSeveral of his original writings, including his personal archives, are preserved in the National Library of Israel, formerly the Jewish National and University Library, located on the campus of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49468503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49468503", "title": "Mayantuyacu", "text": "Mayantuyacu\n\nMayantuyacu is a healing retreat in Puerto Inca Province, Peru. Located near Pucallpa, the Mayantuyacu sanctuary covers 180 hectares of Amazon rainforest. In Asháninka language, Mayantuyacu means \"the water and the air\". According to the local guides, \"Mayantu\" refers to the spirit of the jungle, and \"Yacu\" refers to the spirit of the water.\n\nThe retreat was established by Juan Flores Salazar, an Ashaninka traditional healer (vegetalismo). He was born into a family of traditional healers; he states that he established Mayantuyacu to practice plant therapy and pass on the traditional knowledge to future generations. His healing techniques involve use of tobacco, bark, natural fragrances and ayahuasca.\n\nMayantuyacu has many natural hot springs. The area also has the Shanay-Timpishka hot stream, which has been described as \"The Boiling River\" by geoscientist Andrés Ruzo in a book of the same name.\n\n"}
{"id": "675453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=675453", "title": "Michael Davis (philosopher)", "text": "Michael Davis (philosopher)\n\nMichael Davis (born 6 February 1943) is an American philosopher specializing in professional ethics. He is Professor of Philosophy at the Illinois Institute of Technology, and Senior Fellow at its Center for the Study of Ethics in the Professions.\n\nDavis is the author of several books, including \"Accountability in the Professions\" (1995), \"Profession, Code, and Ethics\" (2002), and \"Engineering Ethics\" (2005).\n\nDavis received his PhD in 1972 from the University of Michigan for a dissertation entitled \"Representation and Consent: An Inquiry into the Foundations of Political Obligation.\" Before moving to the Illinois Institute of Technology in 1986, he taught at the University of Illinois at Chicago, Illinois State University, and Case Western Reserve University.\n\nDavis's work in engineering ethics has won him four large grants from the National Science Foundation and an entry in \"Who's Who in Science and Engineering\". His papers on whistleblowing and conflict of interest are often reprinted. He is the author of eight books and almost 200 articles and chapters, and editor (or co-editor) of five other books.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9653188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9653188", "title": "Myles Burnyeat", "text": "Myles Burnyeat\n\nMyles Fredric Burnyeat, (born 1 January 1939) is an English scholar of ancient philosophy.\n\nEducated at Bryanston School and King's College, Cambridge, Burnyeat was subsequently a student of Bernard Williams at University College London.\n\nHe became an assistant lecturer in philosophy at University College London in 1964, and a lecturer in 1965. In 1978, he was appointed a lecturer in classics at the University of Cambridge, and became a fellow of the new Robinson College, Cambridge, where he remained until 1996.\n\nIn 1984, he was elected a Fellow of the British Academy and appointed as the fifth Laurence Professor of Ancient Philosophy at Cambridge, a position he held until 1996.\n\nFrom 1996, he was Senior Research Fellow in Philosophy at All Souls College, Oxford, before returning in 2006 to Robinson College, Cambridge.\n\nHe was president of the Aristotelian Society from 2005 to 2006.\n\nIn 2007, he was made CBE and a Festschrift in his honour (\"Maieusis: Essays in Ancient Philosophy in Honour of Myles Burnyeat\") was published.\n\nFrom 1984 to 2000 he was married to the classicist and poet Ruth Padel. From winter 2002 until her death in spring 2003 he was married to the scholar of ancient philosophy Heda Segvic, whose essays he prepared for publication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44537503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44537503", "title": "Naive dialecticism", "text": "Naive dialecticism\n\nNaïve dialecticism is a collection of East Asian public beliefs characterized by the acceptance of contradiction and the expectation of change in everyday life. Within cultural psychology, naïve dialecticism explains some of the cultural differences observed between those who hold dialectical beliefs and those who hold more Westernized beliefs. Individuals who hold dialectical beliefs are primarily members of Confucian influenced cultures, such as in Japan, China, and Korea. Certain researchers have shown that specific aspects of naïve dialecticism have broad implications on cognition, emotion, and behavior. As well, it is sometimes regarded as being more contextual, flexible, holistic, and dialectical as compared with Western thinking and reasoning. Dialecticism is a perceptual framework that applies to all situations and guides all actions, which is called a domain-general thinking style. Naïve dialecticism is an expansion on this research; it is a whole collection of domain-specific beliefs, meaning that there is a tendency to understand a situation in terms of these beliefs but there is variation depending on the context and individual differences \n\nNaïve dialecticism contains certain concepts that distinguish it from Western thinking and beliefs, specifically they have different beliefs about change and contradiction. Dialectic thinking involves treating the world as consisting of co-existing extremes or opposites (e.g. hot/cold or light/dark). As a result, they are more likely to expect change from the status quo. Dialectic thinkers also believe that the truth is always somewhere in the middle (doctrine of the mean), which differs from Western beliefs that contradictions must be reconciled because only a single truth is thought to exist \n\nNaive dialecticism provides a framework for analysis that is halfway between a macro-level and a micro-level approach. On a macro-level, individualism and collectivism define the social differences between cultures, which influences the specific common beliefs about how the world operates. Naïve dialecticism shares this macro-level framework while also looking at individual and situation-specific differences between people (micro-approach).\n\nThe three principles of naïve dialecticism are change, contradiction, and holism, and they operate together. If the world is in constant flux, as explained by the principle of change, then there must be acceptance of contradiction because one phenomenon will inevitably become something else. The fact that understanding phenomena relies on acceptance of contradiction within and between phenomena suggests that the only way to understand it is to look at it holistically\n\nPeople who are high in naïve dialecticism tend to view the world as constantly changing, especially alternating between two opposites. For example, day transforms into night, life becomes death, etc. Basic Taoist teachings suggest that knowledge and existence are in constant flux, and categorization is ineffective as nothing is ever fixed. The concept of change is situation-specific, and so those who are dialectic thinkers believe that their behaviors change depending on the context and individual differences. However, the concept of change is global in that it applies to feelings, events, objects, natural processes and any other phenomena observed in the universe. This can be contrasted to naïve aristotelianism, which follows the law of identity: If something is true than it is true, regardless of context\n\nContradiction assumes that objects, events and states of being have coexisting opposing parts. By splitting or differentiating something to better understand its component parts, one is simply emphasizing the interaction between the contradicting parts.\n\nThe doctrine of the mean is the belief that the truth is always in the middle, between extreme viewpoints. This belief is consistent with naïve dialecticism and is based off the values of balance and harmony. This contrasts Western beliefs that more often align with the law of non-contradiction, which maintains that a statement cannot be both true and false, and the law of the excluded middle, which suggests that a statement is either true or false. Westerners tend to pick a side, even to the point of changing their beliefs about the pros that the losing side offers. Changing one’s beliefs such that they will be consistent with one’s choice is called cognitive dissonance\n\nHolism is the belief that everything is interconnected and relational, and understanding something requires that you understand its relationships and context. A primary part of holism is that personal growth requires physical and spiritual growth, and is not independent of the environment within which the growth occurs. In this tradition there is no dichotomy of “self” and “other” \n\nNaïve dialecticism research has arisen primarily out of the holistic/ analytic tradition of cultural research, which compares cultures on the basis of cognitive styles. These cognitive styles are general ways of interpretation that are adopted, and often similar within a culture. Holism is a characteristic that is generally applied to East Asian cultures, while Western cultures are more often characterized by analytic thinking. This means that Westerners tend to deconstruct something into parts to understand it, while East Asians tend to look at the entire phenomena as a whole and attempt to understand the relationships that bind each facet to every other and to the phenomena as a whole.\n\nIn East Asian countries, lay beliefs predominantly derive from Taoism, Confucianism, and Buddhism. Taoism guides cognitive beliefs about the physical world, Confucianism guides state decisions and Buddhism guides development of the mind and spirit\n\nNaïve dialecticism is a lay rendition of Taoism. Taoism is not a religion, but rather a system of beliefs regarding thinking and reasoning or, generally, for understanding how the world works. Unlike the traditions of Confucianism or Buddhism, Taoism did not begin from a community following the teachings of a leader, and therefore there is no original orthodoxy or orthopraxy that provide a standard for the Taoist tradition. Taoism teachings suggest that most people do not live a fulfilling life, as they do not strive for self-cultivation to enhance their experiential awareness. Tao roughly translated means “the way,” although there are many definitions and none accurately capture the meaning of Tao\n\nBasic Concepts of Taoism\n\nThe Confucian tradition is agnostic; it focuses on living a moral life for the sake of itself, without discussing what comes before or after. Most of Confucius’ teachings stem from the \"Analects\", a series of correspondences between Confucius and his students. It generally informed citizens of their social roles within interpersonal relationships and how they should act morally and politically. For example, a young man was expected to pursue education and economic welfare for the betterment of his family, which relates to the importance of filial piety. This emphasis on family relations and interdependence reflects the principle of holism.\n\nOriginally from India, the tradition of Buddhism was introduced to Chinese culture during the Han dynasty. Since it was a later player in Chinese culture, Buddhism was unique from the indigenous traditions of Taoism and Confucianism in that the Chinese interpreted the Buddhist tradition to integrate it into these pre-existing cultural systems. The successful union of Buddhism into Chinese culture reflects the integrative and holistic nature of both. Buddhist ideas filled in many of the blanks that Taoism and Confucianism did not address, for example: Buddhism introduced the ideas of karma and rebirth. Buddhism brought a strong position on death, and filial piety was softened by Buddhist ideas of equality between all people.\n\nThe principles of naïve dialecticism are apparent in cultural products. For example, in the yin/yang symbol, there is perpetual motion from black to white indicating that the world is in constant flux. The black and white dots represent contradiction; Not only can opposites co-exist, they could not exist without one another. The values of balance and harmony are represented by the symmetry of the symbol, and the cognitive style of holism by the outer circle representing context\n\nThe Yin/Yang symbol is present in many well known pieces of art, as well as other symbols of Taoism and naive dialectic beliefs. The famous woodblock print “The Great Wave off Kanagawa” by Japanese artist Hokusai depicts a large wave that a writer describes as a “yin yang of empty space beneath the mountain… The violent Yang of nature is overcome by the yin of the confidence of these experienced fishermen” (Andreas Ramos). This follows the principle of contradiction, which states that events and states of being have coexisting opposing parts.\nThe following story demonstrates contradiction and change, and the idea that what starts off as a blessing may actually end up a curse and vice versa. This way of thinking is consistent with naïve dialecticism, and as a cultural product from ancient times it gives a glimpse into the roots of traditional East Asian thought.\n\n The first dimension created to measure cultural differences was individualism-collectivism, which was built with the intention of avoiding one-sided comparisons of “us” vs “them”. This way of categorizing people has been used for years to explain the differences seen between people in Western vs. Eastern countries, for example what the common beliefs and goals of a culture are. From this perspective, Westerners have made claims that “the Japanese lacked individuality,” and such claims have been made back by saying that people from Western countries are “self-centered” or “self-serving”. Recent research has shown that this viewpoint does not adequately explain cross-cultural differences and is unsupported by empirical research. Researchers have now shown that this common view of an individual-collective difference between cultures has relied too heavily on casual observations to be accurate. Likewise that converse observations, as well as some historical events, have proven that this viewpoint is outdated and, overall, unsupported.\n\nOn the other hand, the concept of naïve dialecticism is an alternative to the outdated use of individualism-collectivism to explain cultural differences between Western and Eastern countries. Differences seen in the goals and beliefs of East-Asian cultures may be due to the values that they hold as a result of naive dialecticism. For instance, the principle of holism dictates that personal growth is dependent on the environment within which the growth occurs, and that the “self” and the “other” are one. Perhaps this belief is what we once called collectivism, but holism is much more central and universal than the pure concept of collectivism.\n\nThe interdependence/independence viewpoint for making cultural comparisons is focused on the way people view themselves in relation to others and the world around them. Interdependent cultures tend to define who they are by their in-group relations, whereas independent cultures tend to separate their identities from one another or from the wider groups they may associate with. Generally, Westerners hold autonomy at high value, and maintaining individual integrity is essential for one’s self-conception. The distinction between self and group is much more blurred in collectivist cultures. In accordance with social expectations, similarity to the social group and adoption of their organizational scheme and values is characteristic of interpersonal cultures. Modesty of one’s achievements is preferred in collectivists because they are motivated to bolster the group, not their own esteem as seen in individualists.\n\nThis can have an interesting interplay with naïve dialecticism. For example, although East Asians are generally more interpersonal, and thus may be expected to favor their in-group, they are also dialectical and understand things as balanced in contradiction. East Asians actually have a more negative view of their own in-groups compared to European Americans, simply because they consider both positive and negative aspects rather than emphasizing the positives only. This is a good example of how flexible naïve dialecticism can be when competing with other cultural tendencies.\n\n"}
{"id": "41645770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41645770", "title": "Nididhyāsana", "text": "Nididhyāsana\n\nIn Advaita Vedanta and Jnana Yoga Nididhyasana (Sanskrit: निदिध्यासन) is profound and repeated meditation on the mahavakyas, great Upanishadic statements such as \"That art Thou\", to realize the identity of Atman and Brahman. It is the fourth step in the training of a sisya (disciple), consisting of preparatory practives, listening to the teachings as contained in the sruti, reflection on the teachings, and nididhyasana.\n\nNididhyasana is the final step in the correct understanding of the meaning of the Mahavakyas. Classical Advaita Vedanta emphasises the path of Jnana Yoga, a progression of study and training to attain moksha. It consists of four stages:\n\nNididhyasana is a rational and cognitive process, which differs from dhyana (meditation). It is necessary for gaining \"Brahmajnana\":\nNididhyasana done independently of \"sravana\" does not lead to the realization of the Atman.\n\nBrihadaranyaka Upanishad (II.iv.5) defines Nididhyasana as the meditation for the sake of direct vision.Yajnavalkya tells his wife –\n\nSankara explains Nididhyasana as meditation with determination. Sankara states:-\n\nAccording to Suresvara, Nididhyasana is the culmination of the practice of \"sravana\" and \"manana\", which is an indirect intuition of Brahman and does not mean meditation but knowledge (vijnana) i.e. understanding the meaning of the Sruti on the basis of \"vacya-vacaka\" relation underlying the mahavakya. Suresvara states:-\n\nNididhyasana consists in acquisition of \"vakyarthajnana\" and this verse explains the purport of \"sunisnata\".\n\nAccording to Vacaspati, \"sravana\", \"manana\" and \"nidihyasana\" are a chain of causes contributory to the knowledge of the oneness of Brahman. The Vivarna school considers \"sravana\" as the principal cause but Suresvara treats \"sravana\" and \"manana\" to be co-existent, these two culminate into \"nididhyasana\".\n\nAccording to Madhva the knowledge acquired by study ('sravana') and stabilized by reflection ('manana') is made the basis of steady contemplation ('nididhyasana'); these are the three stages of inquiry that take the form of \"Dhyana\". Radhakrishnan has defined Nididhyasana as \"the process by which intellectual conscience is transformed into a vital one there is stillness, a calm in which the soul lays itself open to the Divine\".\n\nAccording to Michael James, who gives an Advaita Vedanta interpretation of Ramana Maharshi, Ramana's self-enquiry is the same as Nididhyasana and \"atma-vichara\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1271121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1271121", "title": "Philosophical realism", "text": "Philosophical realism\n\nIn metaphysics, realism about a given object is the view that this object exists in reality independently of our conceptual scheme. In philosophical terms, these objects are ontologically independent of someone's conceptual scheme, perceptions, linguistic practices, beliefs, etc. \n\nRealism can be applied to many philosophically interesting objects and phenomena: other minds, the past or the future, universals, mathematical entities (such as natural numbers), moral categories, the physical world, and thought. \n\nRealism can also be a view about the nature of reality in general, where it claims that the world exists independent of the mind, as opposed to non-realist views (like some forms of skepticism and solipsism, which deny the existence of a mind-independent world). Philosophers who profess realism often claim that truth consists in a correspondence between cognitive representations and reality.\n\nRealists tend to believe that whatever we believe now is only an approximation of reality but that the accuracy and fullness of understanding can be improved. In some contexts, realism is contrasted with idealism. Today it is more usually contrasted with anti-realism, for example in the philosophy of science.\n\nThe oldest use of the term \"realism\" appears in medieval scholastic interpretations and adaptations of ancient Greek philosophy.\n\nMetaphysical realism maintains that \"whatever exists does so, and has the properties and relations it does, independently of deriving its existence or nature from being thought of or experienced.\"\n\nNaive realism, also known as direct realism, is a philosophy of mind rooted in a common sense theory of perception that claims that the senses provide us with direct awareness of the external world. In contrast, some forms of idealism assert that no world exists apart from mind-dependent ideas and some forms of skepticism say we cannot trust our senses. The naive realist view is that objects have properties, such as texture, smell, taste and colour, that are usually perceived absolutely correctly. We perceive them as they \"really\" are.\n\nScientific realism is, at the most general level, the view that the world described by science is the real world, as it is, independent of what we might take it to be. Within philosophy of science, it is often framed as an answer to the question \"how is the success of science to be explained?\" The debate over what the success of science involves centers primarily on the status of unobservable entities apparently talked about by scientific theories. Generally, those who are scientific realists assert that one can make reliable claims about unobservables (viz., that they have the same ontological status) as observables. Analytic philosophers generally have a commitment to scientific realism, in the sense of regarding the scientific method as a reliable guide to the nature of reality. The main alternative to scientific realism is instrumentalism.\n\nRealism in physics (especially quantum mechanics) is the claim that the world is in some sense mind-independent: that even if the results of a possible measurement do not pre-exist the act of measurement, that does not require that they are the creation of the observer (contrary to the \"consciousness causes collapse\" interpretation of quantum mechanics). That interpretation of quantum mechanics, on the other hand, states that the wave function is already the full description of reality. The different possible realities described by the wave function are equally true. The observer collapses the wave function into their own reality. One's reality can be mind-dependent under this interpretation of quantum mechanics.\n\nMoral realism is the position that ethical sentences express propositions that refer to objective features of the world.\n\nAesthetic realism (not to be confused with the Aesthetic Realism of Eli Siegel, the philosophy that sees reality as the making one of opposites) may mean the claim that there are mind-independent aesthetic facts, but in general discussions about art \"realism\" is a complex term that may have a number of different meanings.\n\nIn ancient Greek philosophy, realist doctrines about universals were proposed by Plato and Aristotle.\n\nPlatonic realism is realism regarding the existence of universals or abstract objects. As universals were considered by Plato to be ideal forms, this stance is confusingly also called Platonic idealism. This should not be confused with Idealism, as presented by philosophers such as George Berkeley: as Platonic abstractions are not spatial, temporal, or mental, they are not compatible with the latter Idealism's emphasis on mental existence. Plato's Forms include numbers and geometrical figures, making them a theory of mathematical realism; they also include the Form of the Good, making them in addition a theory of ethical realism.\n\nAristotelian realism is the view that the existence of universals is dependent on the particulars that exemplify them.\n\nMedieval realism developed out of debates over the problem of universals. Universals are terms or properties that can be applied to many things, such as \"red\", \"beauty\", \"five\", or \"dog\". Realism (also known as exaggerated realism) in this context, contrasted with conceptualism and nominalism, holds that such universals really exist, independently and somehow prior to the world. Moderate realism holds that they exist, but only insofar as they are instantiated in specific things; they do not exist \"separately\" from the specific thing. Conceptualism holds that they exist, but only in the mind, while nominalism holds that universals do not \"exist\" at all but are no more than words (\"flatus vocis\") that describe specific objects.\n\nProponents of moderate realism included Thomas Aquinas, Bonaventure, and Duns Scotus (cf. Scotist realism).\n\nIn early modern philosophy, Scottish Common Sense Realism was a school of philosophy that sought to defend naive realism against philosophical paradox and scepticism, arguing that matters of common sense are within the reach of common understanding and that common-sense beliefs even govern the lives and thoughts of those who hold non-commonsensical beliefs. It originated in the ideas of the most prominent members of the Scottish School of Common Sense, Thomas Reid, Adam Ferguson and Dugald Stewart, during the 18th century Scottish Enlightenment and flourished in the late 18th and early 19th centuries in Scotland and America.\n\nThe roots of Scottish Common Sense Realism can be found in responses to such philosophers as John Locke, George Berkeley and David Hume. The approach was a response to the \"ideal system\" that began with Descartes' concept of the limitations of sense experience and led Locke and Hume to a skepticism that called religion and the evidence of the senses equally into question. The common sense realists found skepticism to be absurd and so contrary to common experience that it had to be rejected. They taught that ordinary experiences provide intuitively certain assurance of the existence of the self, of real objects that could be seen and felt and of certain \"first principles\" upon which sound morality and religious beliefs could be established. Its basic principle was enunciated by its founder and greatest figure, Thomas Reid:\n\nIn late modern philosophy, a notable school of thought advocating metaphysical realism was Austrian realism. Its members included Franz Brentano, Alexius Meinong, Vittorio Benussi, Ernst Mally, and early Edmund Husserl. These thinkers stressed the objectivity of truth and its independence of the nature of those who judge it. (See also \"Graz School\".)\n\nDialectical materialism, a philosophy of nature based on the writings of late modern philosophers Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, is interpreted to be a form of ontological realism.\n\nAccording to Michael Resnik, Gottlob Frege's work after 1891 can be interpreted as a contribution to realism.\n\nIn contemporary analytic philosophy, Bertrand Russell, Ludwig Wittgenstein, J. L. Austin, Karl Popper, and Gustav Bergmann espoused metaphysical realism. Hilary Putnam initially espoused metaphysical realism, but he later embraced a form of anti-realism that he termed \"internal realism.\" Conceptualist realism (a view put forward by David Wiggins) is a form of realism, according to which our conceptual framework maps reality.\n\nSpeculative realism is a movement in contemporary Continental-inspired philosophy that defines itself loosely in its stance of metaphysical realism against the dominant forms of post-Kantian philosophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4258029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4258029", "title": "Pleonexia", "text": "Pleonexia\n\nPleonexia, sometimes called pleonexy, originating from the Greek πλεονεξία, is a philosophical concept which roughly corresponds to greed, covetousness, or avarice, and is strictly defined as \"the insatiable desire to have what rightfully belongs to others\", suggesting what Ritenbaugh describes as \"ruthless self-seeking and an arrogant assumption that others and things exist for one's own benefit\".\n\nClassical Greek philosophers such as Plato related pleonexia to justice. \n\nThrasymachus, in Book I of \"The Republic\", presents pleonexia as a natural state, upon which justice is an unnatural restraint.\n\nIn discussing the philosophy of Aristotle, who insisted in his \"Nicomachean Ethics\" that all specifically unjust actions are motivated by pleonexia, Kraut discusses pleonexia and equates it to epichairekakia, the Greek version of schadenfreude, stating that inherent in pleonexia is the appeal of acting unjustly at the expense of others. Young, however argues that the simple involvement of unfairness in the desire for gaining ever more is what defines pleonexia, rather than that the desire itself be for gaining ever more in a manner that is specifically unfair.\n\nThomas Hobbes includes it as a concept of natural law in \"Leviathan\":\n\nIf in this case, at the making of Peace, men require for themselves, that which they would not have to be granted to others, they do contrary to the precedent law, that commandeth the acknowledgement of naturall equalitie, and therefore also against the law of Nature. The observers of this law, are those we call Modest, and the breakers Arrogant Men. The Greeks call the violation of this law \"πλεονεξία\"; that is, a desire of more than their share.\n\nPleonexia, being mentioned in the New Testament in Colossians 3 verses 1–11 and Luke 12 verses 13–21, has been the subject of commentary by Christian theologians.\n\nWilliam Barclay describes pleonexia as an \"accursed love of having\", which \"will pursue its own interests with complete disregard for the rights of others, and even for the considerations of common humanity\". He labels it an aggressive vice that operates in three spheres of life. In the material sphere involves \"grasping at money and goods, regardless of honour and honesty\". In the ethical sphere it is \"the ambition which tramples on others to gain something which is not properly meant for it\". In the moral sphere, it is \"the unbridled lust which takes its pleasure where it has no right to take\".\n\nChristian belief equates pleonexia with idolatry, because it replaces God with self-interest and material interest in things.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45056186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45056186", "title": "Rosalyn Diprose", "text": "Rosalyn Diprose\n\nRosalyn Diprose is Emeritus Professor of philosophy at University of New South Wales.\n\nA graduate of the University of Technology Sydney, The University of Sydney and UNSW Sydney, she is known for her research on ethics, embodiment, generosity and cultural difference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16412174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16412174", "title": "Ryoun Yamada", "text": "Ryoun Yamada\n\nRyoun Yamada, aka Yamada Ryoun or Yamada Masamichi, the son of the late Yamada Koun, is the current Zen master of San'un Zendo in Kamakura, Japan and the Abbot of the Sanbo Zen school of Zen Buddhism. Sanbo Zen is a lay organization of Zen, so Yamada also worked at Mitsubishi Bank and Mitsubishi Securities. Currently he heads the Itoki Corporation. As of the late 1990s, Yamada was returning to Japan only a few times each year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53874080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53874080", "title": "Salomo Friedlaender", "text": "Salomo Friedlaender\n\nSalomo Friedlaender (4 May 1871 in Gołańcz – 9 September 1946 in Paris) was a German-Jewish philosopher, poet, satirist and author of grotesque and fantastic literature. He published his literary work under the pseudonym \"Mynona\", which is the German word for “anonymous” spelled backward. He is known for his philosophical ideas on dualism drawing on Immanuel Kant, and his avant garde poetry and fiction. Almost none of his work has been translated into English.\n\nBetween 1894 and 1902, Friedlaender studied medicine, philosophy, German literature, archaeology, and art history in Munich, Berlin, and Jena. He wrote his dissertation on Schopenhauer and Kant. He approached the contemporary problems of his day through the lens of Kantian philosophy, in the footsteps of his teacher, the neo-Kantian Ernst Marcus. His most philosophical work, \"Die schoepferische Indifferenz\" (1918), Friedlaender built upon Kant's ideas to move beyond the classical dualism of subject and object in a purified, absolute self. \n\nIn 1906, Friedlaender moved to Berlin and began to publish literary writing under the pseudonym Mynona. He wrote several novels and countless poems and grotesques which were widely published in Expressionist periodicals such as \"Der Sturm\" and Die \"Aktion\". He was part of the Berlin expressionist circle of Herwarth Walden, Else Lasker-Schueler, and Samuel Lublinski and an attraction at their public readings.\n\nIn 1933, he fled to Paris to escape the rise of the Nazi Party in Germany. In Paris, he wrote about confronting the will to annihilation of the Nazis by answering torture with laughter.\n\nHe died in poverty after being refused assistance to emigrate to the United States during World War II.\n\nAlmost none of Friedlander's work has been translated into English. In 2014, an English translation of \"The Creator\" was published by Wakefield Press alongside a translation of “A Wearisome Wedding Night: A Grotesque.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12595790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12595790", "title": "Stephen Mulhall", "text": "Stephen Mulhall\n\nStephen Mulhall (; born 1962) is a philosopher and Fellow of New College, Oxford. His main research areas are Ludwig Wittgenstein and post-Kantian philosophy.\n\nStephen Mulhall received a BA in Philosophy, Politics, and Economics at Balliol College, Oxford in 1983. He then pursued an MA in Philosophy from The University of Toronto in 1984. Between 1984 and 1988, he attended Balliol College and All Souls College, Oxford for his DPhil in Philosophy. From 1986 to 1991 he was a Prize Fellow at All Souls College and in 1991 he became a Reader of Philosophy at the University of Essex. From 1998 to the present he has been a fellow at New College, Oxford.\n\nIn January 2015 Mulhall was a guest on BBC Radio 4's \"In Our Time\", which discussed phenomenology.\n\nSource:\n"}
{"id": "3841207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3841207", "title": "Sydney Shoemaker", "text": "Sydney Shoemaker\n\nSydney Shoemaker (born 29 September 1931) is an American philosopher. He is the Emeritus Susan Linn Sage Professor of Philosophy at Cornell University and is well-known for his contributions to philosophy of mind and metaphysics. \n\nShoemaker graduated with a BA from Reed College and earned his PhD from Cornell University under the supervision of Norman Malcolm. \n\nIn 1971, he delivered the John Locke Lectures at Oxford University. \n\nShoemaker has worked primarily in the philosophy of mind and metaphysics, and published many classic papers in both of these areas (as well as their overlap). In \"Functionalism and Qualia\" (1975), for example, he argues that functionalism about mental states can account for the qualitative character (or 'raw feel') of mental states. In \"Self-Reference and Self-Awareness\" (1968), he argues that the phenomenon of absolute 'Immunity to Error Through Misidentification' is what distinguishes self-attributions of mental states (such as \"I see a canary\") from self-attributions of physical states (such as \"I weigh 200 pounds\"). In metaphysics, he has defended the view that laws are metaphysically necessary, a position that follows from his view of properties as clusters of conditional causal powers. He has also applied his view of properties to the problem of mental causation. He also has distinguished contributions to the literature on self-knowledge and personal identity, where he defended a Lockean psychological continuity theory in his influential paper \"Persons and their Pasts\". In his recent work on the content of perception, he has argued for a distinctive version of internalist representationalism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17007937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17007937", "title": "T'ai chi ch'uan philosophy", "text": "T'ai chi ch'uan philosophy\n\nIn many extant t'ai chi classic writings the dependence of t'ai chi ch'uan on Chinese philosophy is acknowledged. T'ai chi teachers have historically asserted that the principles of tai chi chuan practice can be applied to a student's lifestyle.\n\n'T'ai chi ch'uan' is often translated \"supreme ultimate pugilism\" or \"boundless fist\". This refers to the ancient Chinese martial art. However, in terms of philosophy \"t'ai chi\" has a wider meaning. The concept of \"t'ai chi\" or the \"Supreme Ultimate\" is used in various Chinese philosophical schools, usually to represent the contrast in opposing categories, or the interplay of those categories usually termed \"yin\" and \"yang\". These abstract terms represent the relationships used to describe perceived opposites in the phenomenal world: full and empty, movement and stillness, soft and hard, light and dark, hot and cold, et cetera. This scheme has had a lasting influence in traditional Chinese culture, shaping theory in schools as diverse as Confucianism, Taoism, Legalism and, to a lesser extent, Chan Buddhism, as well as traditional Chinese medicine and feng shui. T'ai chi ch'uan, a relatively recent development compared to the aforementioned schools was even named by some of its earliest known exponents after the \"t'ai chi\" concept, possibly as late as the mid-nineteenth century.\n\nIn the \"Forty Chapter\" t'ai chi classic text supplied by Yang Pan-hou to Wu Ch'uan-yu in the late nineteenth century, there are the following references to the philosophy of t'ai chi ch'uan as applied to a practitioner's lifestyle:\n\n14. An Explanation of the Spiritual and Martial in Tai Chi\n\nThe spiritual is the essence, the martial is the application. Spiritual development in the realm of martial arts is applied through the ching (metabolic energy), ch'i (breath energy) and shen (spiritual energy) - the practise of physical culture. When the martial is matched with the spiritual and it is experienced in the body and mind, this then is the practise of martial arts. With the spiritual and martial we must speak of \"firing time,\" for their development unfolds according to the proper sequence. This is the root of physical culture. Therefore, the practise of the martial arts in a spiritual way is soft-style exercise, the sinew power of ching, ch'i and shen. When the martial arts are practical in an exclusively martial way, this is hard style, or simply brute force. The spiritual without martial training is essence without application; the martial without spiritual accompaniment is application without essence. A lone pole cannot stand, a single palm cannot clap. This is not only true of physical culture and martial arts, but all things are subject to this principle. The spiritual is internal principle; the martial is external skill. External skill without internal principle is simply physical ferocity. This is a far cry from the original nature of the art, and by bullying an opponent one eventually invites disaster. To understand the internal principles without the external skill is simply an armchair art. Without knowing the applications, one will be lost in an actual confrontation. When it comes to applying this art, one cannot afford to ignore the significance of the two words: spiritual and martial.\n\n19. An Explanation of the Three Levels of the Spiritual and Martial in Tai Chi\n\nWithout self-cultivation, there would be no means of realising the Tao. Nevertheless, the methods of practise can be divided into three levels. The term level means attainment. The highest level is the great attainment; the lowest level is the lesser attainment; the middle level is the attainment of sincerity. Although the methods are divided into three levels of practise, the attainment is one. The spiritual is cultivated internally and the martial externally; physical culture is internal and martial arts external. Those whose practise is successful both internally and externally reach the highest level of attainment. Those who master the martial arts through the spiritual aspect of physical culture, and those who master the spiritual aspect of physical culture through the martial arts attain the middle level. However, those who know only physical culture but not the martial arts, or those who know only the martial arts without physical culture represent the lowest levels of attainment.\n\n20. An Explanation of the Martial Aspect of T’ai Chi\n\nAs a martial art, T’ai Chi is externally a soft exercise, but internally hard, even as it seeks softness. If we are externally soft, after a long time we will naturally develop internal hardness. It’s not that we consciously cultivate hardness, for in reality our mind is on softness. What is difficult is to remain internally reserved, to possess hardness without expressing it, always externally meeting the opponent with softness. Meeting hardness with softness causes the opponent’s hardness to be transformed and disappear into nothingness. How can we acquire this skill? When we have mastered sticking, adhering, connecting and following, we will naturally progress from conscious movement to interpreting energy and finally spiritual illumination and the realm of absolute transcendence. If our skill has not reached absolute transcendence, how could we manifest the miracle of four ounces moving a thousand pounds? It is simply a matter of “understanding sticky movement” to the point of perfecting the subtlety of seeing and hearing.\n\n"}
{"id": "27955691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27955691", "title": "The Bear and the Gardener", "text": "The Bear and the Gardener\n\nThe Bear and the Gardener is a fable of eastern origin that warns against making foolish friendships. There are several variant versions, both literary and oral, across the world and its folk elements are classed as Aarne-Thompson-Uther type 1586. The La Fontaine version has been taken as demonstrating various philosophical lessons.\n\nThe story was introduced to western readers in La Fontaine's Fables (VIII.10). Though \"L'Ours et l'amateur des jardins\" is sometimes translated as \"The bear and the amateur gardener\", the true meaning is 'the garden lover'. It relates how a solitary gardener encounters a lonely bear and they decide to become companions. One of the bear's duties is to keep the flies off his friend when he takes a nap. Unable to drive off a persistent fly, the bear seizes a paving stone to crush it and kills the gardener as well.\n\nSeveral lines occurring in the poem are taken as its morals. Midway there is the statement 'In my opinion it's a golden rule/Better be lonely than be with a fool', which the rest of the story bears out. The summing up at the end carries the commentary given by eastern authors that it is better to have a wise enemy than a foolish friend. The fable has given to the French language the idiom \"le pavé de l'ours\" (the bear's paving stone) and, following the Russian fabulist Ivan Krylov's version, to Russian \"medvezhya usluga\" (a bear's service) — both used for any ill-considered action with an unfortunate result. La Fontaine is considered to have been illustrating the Stoic precept that there should be measure in everything, including the making of friends. In terms of practical philosophy, the story also illustrates the important distinction that the bear fails to realise between the immediate good, in this case keeping the flies off a friend, and the ultimate good of safeguarding his welfare.\n\nThe story gained currency in England from the 18th century on through translations or imitations of La Fontaine. One of its earliest appearances was in Robert Dodsley's \"Select fables of Esop and other fabulists\" (1764), where it is given the title \"The Hermit and the Bear\" and a milder ending. In this version a hermit has done the bear a good turn; later still this was identified with taking a thorn from its paw, drawing on the story of Androcles and the Lion. Serving the hermit afterwards out of gratitude, the bear strikes him in the face when driving off a fly, and the two then part. It was this version that was taken up in early 19th century rhyming editions for children. Among them are Mary Anne Davis' \"Fables in Verse: by Aesop, La Fontaine, and others\", first published about 1818, and Jefferys Taylor's \"Aesop in Rhyme\" (1820). Krylov also used the title \"The Hermit and the Bear\" in his imitation of La Fontaine's fable (1809), but retained the usual fatal ending. Later in the century the origin of the story was forgotten in England and it was taken as one of Aesop's Fables.\n\nLa Fontaine found his fable in a translation of the Bidpai stories, in which the characters are indeed a bear and a gardener. A variant appeared in Rumi's 13th century poem, the Masnavi, which tells the story of a kind man who rescued a bear from a serpent. The animal then devoted itself to its saviour's service and killed him in the manner related.\n\nThe story ultimately derives from India, where there are two older versions with different characters. The one from the \"Panchatantra\" involves the pet monkey of a king who strikes at the gnat with a sword and causes his master's death. In the \"Masaka Jataka\" from the Buddhist scriptures it is a carpenter's foolish son who strikes at a fly on his father's head with an axe. In the former the moral is given as 'Do not choose a fool as a friend', while in the latter it is that 'an enemy with sense is better than a friend without it', which is the sentiment on which La Fontaine closes his fable.\n\nThere are yet more variants in the oral tradition. One Pakistani source concerns \"The Seven Wise Men of Buneyr\", who share at least one exploit with the Wise Men of Gotham; imported into it is the episode of causing injury by trying to drive off flies, in this case from an old woman whom one of them knocks over with the stone he throws in doing so. In Europe the story is of a fool who breaks a magistrate's nose with a cudgel in taking vengeance on a fly. In Italy this is told of Giufà, in Austria of Foolish Hans. A similar episode also occurs at the start of Giovanni Francesco Straparola's tale of Fortunio in \"Facetious Nights\" (13.4), written about 1550. That particular collection contains the first instance of several other European folk tales, besides this one.\n\nBecause of the fable's existence in Eastern sources, it has been a particularly popular subject in Muslim miniatures from the East. Most often they depict the bear with the stone raised in its paws, as in the manuscript copy of the \"Masnavi\" dating from 1663 in the Walters Art Museum (see above), and another illustration from Persia dating from a little later. A watercolour in Lucknow style, painted by Sital Das round about 1780 and now in the British Library, shows the bear contemplating the gardener after it has killed him. Yet another Indian miniature of the fable was among those commissioned from the Punjabi artist Imam Bakhsh Lahori in 1837 by a French enthusiast of fables. Now in the , it shows the bear in an ornamental garden.\n\nSeveral Western artists have illustrated La Fontaine's fable of \"The Bear and the Gardener\", including those like Jean-Baptiste Oudry and Gustave Doré who were responsible for entire editions of La Fontaine's work. On the other hand, Jean-Charles Cazin's 1892 oil painting of \"L'ours et l'amateur des jardins\" dispenses with the bear altogether. It is a pure landscape showing a southern farm with the ancient gardener slumbering in the foreground. An etching of this was made by Edmond-Jules Pennequin in 1901. Other series that include the fable are the innovative water colours that Gustave Moreau painted in 1886 and the coloured etchings by Marc Chagall (1951) of which \"L'ours et l'amateur des jardins\" is number 83. Finally Yves Alix (1890–1969) produced a lithograph of the fable for a de luxe edition of \"20 Fables\" (1966) incorporating the work of as many modernist artists.\n\n"}
{"id": "34822427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34822427", "title": "The Democratic Paradox", "text": "The Democratic Paradox\n\nThe Democratic Paradox is a collection of essays by the Belgian political theorist Chantal Mouffe, published in 2000 by Verso Books. The essays offer further discussion of the concept of radical democracy that Mouffe explored in \"Hegemony and Socialist Strategy\", co-authored by Ernesto Laclau. In this collection, Mouffe deals with the specific conflicts between the post-Marxist democratic theory that she and Laclau theorized in \"Hegemony and Socialist Strategy\" and the competing democratic theories proposed by Jürgen Habermas and John Rawls. Verso's UK blog characterizes \"The Democratic Paradox\" as Mouffe's most accessible review of her perspectives on radical democracy.\n\nThe eponymous paradox of democracy that this collection of essays deals with is the internal conflict within modern democracy that is created by the union of two separate strands of political thought: the tradition of classical liberalism and the tradition of democratic theory, forming the institution of liberal democracy. \n\nMouffe sees Radical Democracy as a means for continuing to sustain the balance between the values of liberalism and democracy. This balance is accomplished through the agonistic practice of valuing and sustaining dissent in the democratic process as a more important goal than consensus. This point is where \"Radical Democratic\" theory diverges from both Habermas and Rawls, as it contradicts Habermas's quest for rational consensus and Rawls's project for political liberalism. Mouffe describes the importance of the radical democratic alternative in a 2009 interview, saying that \"The aim of a pluralist democracy is to provide the institutions that will allow them to take an agonistic form, in which opponents will treat each other not as enemies to be destroyed, but as adversaries who will fight for the victory of their position while recognising the right of their opponents to fight for theirs. An agonistic democracy requires the availability of a choice between real alternatives.\"\n"}
{"id": "6723738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6723738", "title": "Turtle (syntax)", "text": "Turtle (syntax)\n\nTerse RDF Triple Language (Turtle) is a syntax and file format for expressing data in the Resource Description Framework (RDF) data model. Turtle syntax is similar to that of SPARQL, an RDF query language.\n\nRDF represents information using semantic triples, which comprise a subject, predicate, and object. Each item in the triple is expressed as a Web URI. Turtle provides a way to group three URIs to make a triple, and provides ways to abbreviate such information, for example by factoring out common portions of URIs. For example:\n\nTurtle was defined by Dave Beckett as a subset of Tim Berners-Lee and Dan Connolly's Notation3 (N3) language, and a superset of the minimal N-Triples format. Unlike full N3, which has an expressive power that goes much beyond RDF, Turtle can only serialize valid RDF graphs. Turtle is an alternative to RDF/XML, the originally unique syntax and standard for writing RDF. As opposed to RDF/XML, Turtle does not rely on XML and is generally recognized as being more readable and easier to edit manually than its XML counterpart.\n\nSPARQL, the query language for RDF, uses a syntax similar to Turtle for expressing query patterns.\n\nIn 2011, a working group of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) started working on an updated version of RDF, with the intention of publishing it along with a standardised version of Turtle. This Turtle specification was published as a W3C recommendation on 25 February 2014.\n\nA significant proportion of RDF toolkits include Turtle parsing and serializing capability. Some examples of such toolkits are Redland, Sesame, Jena and RDFLib.\n\nThe following example defines 3 prefixes (\"rdf\", \"dc\", and \"ex\"), and uses them in expressing a statement about the editorship of the RDF/XML document:\n\n(Turtle examples are also valid Notation3).\n\nThe example encodes an RDF graph made of four triples, which express these facts:\n\n\nHere are the triples made explicit in N-Triples notation:\n\nThe MIME type of Turtle is codice_1. The character encoding of Turtle content is always UTF-8.\n\nTriG RDF syntax extends Turtle with support for named graphs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "189610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189610", "title": "USS Maine (ACR-1)", "text": "USS Maine (ACR-1)\n\nUSS \"Maine\" (ACR-1) was an American naval ship that sank in Havana Harbor during the Cuban revolt against Spain, an event that became a major political issue in the United States.\n\nCommissioned in 1895, this was the first United States Navy ship to be named after the state of Maine. Originally classified as an armored cruiser, she was built in response to the \"Riachuelo\" and the increase of naval forces in Latin America. \"Maine\" and her near-sister ship reflected the latest European naval developments, with the layout of her main armament resembling that of the British ironclad and comparable Italian ships. Her two gun turrets were staggered \"en échelon\", rather than on the centerline, with the fore gun sponsoned out on the starboard side of the ship and the aft gun on the port side, with cutaways in the superstructure to allow both to fire ahead, astern or across her deck. She dispensed with full masts thanks to the increased reliability of steam engines by the time of her construction.\n\nDespite these advances, \"Maine\" was out of date by the time she entered service, due to her protracted construction period and changes in the role of ships of her type, naval tactics and technology. It took nine years to complete, and nearly three years for the armor plating alone. The general use of steel in warship construction precluded the use of ramming without danger to the attacking vessel. The potential for blast damage from firing end on or cross-deck discouraged \"en échelon\" gun placement. The changing role of the armored cruiser from a small, heavily armored substitute for the battleship to a fast, lightly armored commerce raider also hastened her obsolescence. Despite these disadvantages, \"Maine\" was seen as an advance in American warship design.\n\n\"Maine\" is best known for her loss in Havana Harbor on the evening of 15 February 1898. Sent to protect U.S. interests during the Cuban revolt against Spain, she exploded suddenly, without warning, and sank quickly, killing nearly three quarters of her crew. The cause and responsibility for her sinking remained unclear after a board of inquiry investigated. Nevertheless, popular opinion in the U.S., fanned by inflammatory articles printed in the \"yellow press\" by William Randolph Hearst and Joseph Pulitzer, blamed Spain. The phrase, \"Remember the \"Maine!\" To hell with Spain!\", became a rallying cry for action, which came with the Spanish–American War later that year. While the sinking of \"Maine\" was not a direct cause for action, it served as a catalyst, accelerating the approach to a diplomatic impasse between the U.S. and Spain.\n\nThe cause of \"Maine\"s sinking remains a subject of speculation. In 1898, an investigation of the explosion was carried out by a naval board appointed under the McKinley Administration. The consensus of the board was that \"Maine\" was destroyed by an external explosion from a mine. However, the validity of this investigation has been challenged. George W. Melville, a chief engineer in the Navy, proposed that a more likely cause for the sinking was from a magazine explosion within the vessel. The Navy's leading ordnance expert, Philip R. Alger, took this theory further by suggesting that the magazines were ignited by a spontaneous fire in a coal bunker. The coal used in \"Maine\" was bituminous coal, which is known for releasing firedamp, a gas that is prone to spontaneous explosions. There is stronger evidence that the explosion of \"Maine\" was caused by an internal coal fire which ignited the magazines. This was a likely cause of the explosion, rather than the initial hypothesis of a mine. The ship lay at the bottom of the harbor until 1911. A cofferdam was then built around the wreck. The hull was patched up until the ship was afloat, then towed to sea and sunk. The \"Maine\" now lies on the sea-bed below the surface.\n\nThe delivery of the in 1883 and the acquisition of other modern armored warships from Europe by Brazil, Argentina and Chile shortly afterwards, alarmed the United States government, as the Brazilian Navy was now the most powerful in the Americas. The chairman of the House Naval Affairs Committee, Hilary A. Herbert, stated to Congress: \"if all this old navy of ours were drawn up in battle array in mid-ocean and confronted by \"Riachuelo\" it is doubtful whether a single vessel bearing the American flag would get into port.\" These developments helped bring to a head a series of discussions that had been taking place at the Naval Advisory Board since 1881. The board knew at that time that the U.S. Navy could not challenge any major European fleet; at best, it could wear down an opponent's merchant fleet and hope to make some progress through general attrition there. Moreover, projecting naval force abroad through the use of battleships ran counter to the government policy of isolationism. While some on the board supported a strict policy of commerce raiding, others argued it would be ineffective against the potential threat of enemy battleships stationed near the American coast. The two sides remained essentially deadlocked until \"Riachuelo\" manifested.\n\nThe board, now confronted with the concrete possibility of hostile warships operating off the American coast, began planning for ships to protect it in 1884. The ships had to fit within existing docks and had to have a shallow draft to enable them to use all the major American ports and bases. The maximum beam was similarly fixed, and the board concluded that at a length of about , the maximum displacement would be about 7,000 tons. A year later the Bureau of Construction and Repair (C & R) presented two designs to Secretary of the Navy William Collins Whitney, one for a 7,500-ton battleship and one for a 5,000-ton armored cruiser. Whitney decided instead to ask Congress for two 6,000-ton warships, and they were authorized in August 1886. A design contest was held, asking naval architects to submit designs for the two ships: armored cruiser \"Maine\" and battleship . It was specified that \"Maine\" had to have a speed of , a ram bow, and a double bottom, and be able to carry two torpedo boats. Her armament was specified as: four guns, six guns, various light weapons, and four torpedo tubes. It was specifically stated that the main guns \"must afford heavy bow and stern fire.\" Armor thickness and many details were also defined. Specifications for \"Texas\" were similar, but demanded a main battery of two guns and slightly thicker armor.\n\nThe winning design for \"Maine\" was from Theodore D. Wilson, who served as chief constructor for C & R and was a member on the Naval Advisory Board in 1881. He had designed a number of other warships for the navy. The winning design for \"Texas\" was from a British designer, William John, who was working for the Barrow Shipbuilding Company at that time. Both designs resembled the Brazilian battleship \"Riachuelo\", having the main gun turrets sponsoned out over the sides of the ship and echeloned. The winning design for \"Maine\", though conservative and inferior to other contenders, may have received special consideration due to a requirement that one of the two new ships be American–designed.\n\nCongress authorized construction of \"Maine\" on 3 August 1886, and her keel was laid down on 17 October 1888, at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. She was the largest vessel built in a U.S. Navy yard up to that time.\n\n\"Maine\"s building time of nine years was unusually protracted, due to the limits of U.S. industry at the time. (The delivery of her armored plating took three years and a fire in the drafting room of the building yard, where \"Maine\"s working set of blueprints were stored, caused further delay.) In the nine years between her being laid down and her completion, naval tactics and technology changed radically and left \"Maine\"s actual role in the navy ill-defined. At the time she was laid down, armored cruisers such as \"Maine\" were intended to serve as small battleships on overseas service and were built with heavy belt armor. Great Britain, France and Russia had constructed such ships to serve this purpose and sold others of this type, including \"Riachuelo\", to second-rate navies. Within a decade, this role had changed to commerce raiding, for which fast, long-range vessels, with only limited armor protection, were needed. The advent of lightweight armor, such as Harvey steel, made this transformation possible.\n\nAs a result of these changing priorities, \"Maine\" was caught between two separate positions and could not perform either one adequately. She lacked both the armor and firepower to serve as a ship-of-the-line against enemy battleships and the speed to serve as a cruiser. Nevertheless, she was expected to fulfill more than one tactical function. In addition, because of the potential of a warship sustaining blast damage to herself from cross-deck and end-on fire, \"Maine\"s main-gun arrangement was obsolete by the time she entered service.\n\n\"Maine\" was long overall, with a beam of , a maximum draft of and a displacement of . She was divided into 214 watertight compartments. A centerline longitudinal watertight bulkhead separated the engines and a double bottom covered the hull only from the foremast to the aft end of the armored citadel, a distance of . She had a metacentric height of as designed and was fitted with a ram bow.\n\"Maine\"s hull was long and narrow, more like a cruiser than that of \"Texas\", which was wide-beamed. Normally, this would have made \"Maine\" the faster ship of the two. However, \"Maine\"s weight distribution was ill-balanced, which slowed her considerably. Her main turrets, awkwardly situated on a cut-away gundeck, were nearly awash in bad weather. Because they were mounted toward the ends of the ship, away from its center of gravity, \"Maine\" was also prone to greater motion in heavy seas. While she and \"Texas\" were both considered seaworthy, the latter's high hull and guns mounted on her main deck made her the drier ship.\n\nThe two main gun turrets were sponsoned out over the sides of the ship and echeloned to allow both to fire fore and aft. The practice of \"en echelon\" mounting had begun with Italian battleships designed in the 1870s by Benedetto Brin and followed by the British Navy with , which was laid down in 1874 but not commissioned until October 1881. This gun arrangement met the design demand for heavy end-on fire in a ship-to-ship encounter, tactics which involved ramming the enemy vessel. The wisdom of this tactic was purely theoretical at the time it was implemented. A drawback of an \"en echelon\" layout limited the ability for a ship to fire broadside, a key factor when employed in a line of battle. To allow for at least partial broadside fire, \"Maine\"s superstructure was separated into three structures. This technically allowed both turrets to fire across the ship's deck (cross-deck fire), between the sections. However, this ability was still significantly limited as the superstructure restricted each turret's arc of fire.\n\nThis plan and profile view show \"Maine\" with eight six-pounder guns (one is not seen on the port part of the bridge but that is due to the bridge being cut away in the drawing). Another early published plan shows the same. In both cases the photographs show a single extreme bow mounted six-pounder. However, careful examination of \"Maine\" photographs confirm that she did not carry that gun. \"Maine\"s armament set up in the bow was not identical to the stern which had a single six-pounder mounted at extreme aft of the vessel. \"Maine\" carried two six-pounders forward, two on the bridge and three on the stern section, all one level above the abbreviated gun deck that permitted the ten-inch guns to fire across the deck. The six-pounders located in the bow were positioned more forward than the pair mounted aft which necessitated the far aft single six-pounder.\n\n\"Maine\" was the first U.S. capital ship to have its power plant given as high a priority as its fighting strength. Her machinery, built by the N. F. Palmer Jr. & Company's Quintard Iron Works of New York, was the first designed for a major ship under the direct supervision of Arctic explorer and soon-to-be commodore, George Wallace Melville. She had two inverted vertical triple-expansion steam engines, mounted in watertight compartments and separated by a fore-to-aft bulkhead, with a total designed output of . Cylinder diameters were (high-pressure), (intermediate-pressure) and (low-pressure). Stroke for all three pistons was .\n\nMelville mounted \"Maine\"s engines with the cylinders in vertical mode, a departure from conventional practice. Previous ships had had their engines mounted in horizontal mode, so that they would be completely protected below the waterline. Melville believed a ship's engines needed ample room to operate and that any exposed parts could be protected by an armored deck. He therefore opted for the greater efficiency, lower maintenance costs and higher speeds offered by the vertical mode. Also, the engines were constructed with the high-pressure cylinder aft and the low-pressure cylinder forward. This was done, according to the ship's chief engineer, A. W. Morley, so the low-pressure cylinder could be disconnected when the ship was under low power. This allowed the high and intermediate-power cylinders to be run together as a compound engine for economical running.\nEight single-ended Scotch marine boilers provided steam to the engines at a working pressure of at a temperature . On trials, she reached a speed of , failing to meet her contract speed of . She carried a maximum load of of coal in 20 bunkers, 10 on each side, which extended below the protective deck. Wing bunkers at each end of each fire room extended inboard to the front of the boilers. This was actually a very low capacity for a ship of \"Maine\"s rating, which limited her time at sea and her ability to run at flank speed, when coal consumption increased dramatically. \"Maine\"s overhanging main turrets also prevented coaling at sea, except in the calmest of waters; otherwise, the potential for damage to a collier, herself or both vessels was extremely great.\n\n\"Maine\" also carried two small dynamos to power her searchlights and provide interior lighting.\n\n\"Maine\" was designed initially with a three-mast barque rig for auxiliary propulsion, in case of engine failure and to aid long-range cruising. This arrangement was limited to \"two-thirds\" of full sail power, determined by the ship's tonnage and immersed cross-section. The mizzen mast was removed in 1892, after the ship had been launched, but before her completion. \"Maine\" was completed with a two-mast military rig and the ship never spread any canvas.\n\n\"Maine\"s main armament consisted of four /30 caliber Mark II guns, which had a maximum elevation of 15° and could depress to −3°. Ninety rounds per gun were carried. The ten-inch guns fired a shell at a muzzle velocity of to a range of at maximum elevation. These guns were mounted in twin hydraulically powered Mark 3 turrets, the fore turret sponsoned to starboard and the aft turret sponsoned to port.\nThe 10\" guns were initially to be mounted in open barbettes (the C & R proposal blueprint shows them as such). During \"Maine\"s extended construction, the development of rapid-fire intermediate-caliber guns, which could fire high-explosive shells, became a serious threat and the navy redesigned \"Maine\" with enclosed turrets. Because of the corresponding weight increase, the turrets were mounted one deck lower than planned originally. Even with this modification, the main guns were high enough to fire unobstructed for 180° on one side and 64° on the other side. They could also be loaded at any angle of train; initially the main guns of \"Texas\", by comparison, with external rammers, could be loaded only when trained on the centerline or directly abeam, a common feature in battleships built before 1890. However, by 1897, \"Texas\" turrets had been modified with internal rammers to permit much faster reloading.\n\nThe \"en echelon\" arrangement proved problematic. Because \"Maine\"s turrets were not counterbalanced, she heeled over if both were pointed in the same direction, which reduced the range of the guns. Also, cross-deck firing damaged her deck and superstructure significantly due to the vacuum from passing shells. Because of this, and the potential for undue hull stress if the main guns were fired end-on, the \"en echelon\" arrangement was not used in U.S. Navy designs after \"Maine\" and \"Texas\".\n\nThe six /30 caliber Mark 3 guns were mounted in casemates in the hull, two each at the bow and stern and the last two amidships. Data is lacking, but they could probably depress to −7° and elevate to +12°. They fired shells that weighed with a muzzle velocity of about . They had a maximum range of at full elevation.\n\nThe anti-torpedo boat armament consisted of seven Driggs-Schroeder six-pounder guns mounted on the superstructure deck. They fired a shell weighing about at a muzzle velocity of about at a rate of 20 rounds per minute to a maximum range of . The lighter armament comprised four each Hotchkiss and Driggs-Schroeder one-pounder guns. Four of these were mounted on the superstructure deck, two were mounted in small casemates at the extreme stern and one was mounted in each fighting top. They fired a shell weighing about at a muzzle velocity of about at a rate of 30 rounds per minute to a range about .\n\"Maine\" had four above-water torpedo tubes, two on each broadside. In addition, she was designed to carry two steam-powered torpedo boats, each with a single torpedo tube and a one-pounder gun. Only one was built, but it had a top speed of only a little over so it was transferred to the Naval Torpedo Station at Newport, Rhode Island, as a training craft.\n\nThe main waterline belt, made of nickel steel, had a maximum thickness of and tapered to at its lower edge. It was long and covered the machinery spaces and the 10-inch magazines. It was high, of which was above the design waterline. It angled inwards for at each end, thinning to , to provide protection against raking fire. A 6-inch transverse bulkhead closed off the forward end of the armored citadel. The forward portion of the protective deck ran from the bulkhead all the way to the bow and served to stiffen the ram. The deck sloped downwards to the sides, but its thickness increased to . The rear portion of the protective deck sloped downwards towards the stern, going below the waterline, to protect the propeller shafts and steering gear. The sides of the circular turrets were 8 inches thick. The barbettes were 12 inches thick, with their lower portions reduced to 10 inches. The conning tower had 10-inch walls. The ship's voicepipes and electrical leads were protected by an armored tube thick.\n\nTwo flaws emerged in \"Maine\"s protection, both due to technological developments between her laying-down and her completion. The first was a lack of adequate topside armor to counter the effects of rapid-fire intermediate-caliber guns and high-explosive shells. This was a flaw she shared with \"Texas\". The second was the use of nickel-steel armor. Introduced in 1889, nickel steel was the first modern steel alloy armor and, with a figure of merit of 0.67, was an improvement over the 0.6 rating of mild steel used until then. Harvey steel and Krupp armors, both of which appeared in 1893, had merit figures of between 0.9 and 1.2, giving them roughly twice the tensile strength of nickel steel. Although all three armors shared the same density (about 40 pounds per square foot for a one-inch-thick plate), six inches of Krupp or Harvey steel gave the same protection as 10 inches of nickel. The weight thus saved could be applied either to additional hull structure and machinery or to achieving higher speed. The navy would incorporate Harvey armor in the s, designed after \"Maine\", but commissioned at roughly the same time.\n\n\"Maine\" was launched on 18 November 1889, sponsored by Alice Tracey Wilmerding, the granddaughter of Navy Secretary Benjamin F. Tracy. Not long afterwards, a reporter wrote for \"Marine Engineer and Naval Architect\" magazine, \"it cannot be denied that the navy of the United States is making rapid strides towards taking a credible position among the navies of the world, and the launch of the new armoured battleship \"Maine\" from the Brooklyn Navy Yard ... has added a most powerful unit to the United States fleet of turret ships.\" In his 1890 annual report to congress, the Secretary of the Navy wrote, \"the \"Maine\" ... stands in a class by herself\" and expected the ship to be commissioned by July 1892.\n\nA three-year delay ensued, while the shipyard waited for nickel steel plates for \"Maine\"s armor. Bethlehem Steel Company had promised the navy 300 tons per month by December 1889 and had ordered heavy castings and forging presses from the British firm of Armstrong Whitworth in 1886 to fulfil its contract. This equipment did not arrive until 1889, pushing back Bethlehem's timetable. In response, Navy Secretary Benjamin Tracy secured a second contractor, the newly expanded Homestead mill of Carnegie, Phipps & Company. In November 1890, Tracy and Andrew Carnegie signed a contract for Homestead to supply 6000 tons of nickel steel. However, Homestead was, what author Paul Krause calls, \"the last union stronghold in the steel mills of the Pittsburgh district.\" The mill had already weathered one strike in 1882 and a lockout in 1889 in an effort to break the union there. Less than two years later, came the Homestead Strike of 1892, one of the largest, most serious disputes in U.S. labor history.\n\nA photo of the christening shows Mrs. Wilmerding striking the bow near the plimsoll line depth of 13 which lead to many comments (much later of course) that the ship was \"unlucky\" from the launching.\n\n\"Maine\" was commissioned on 17 September 1895, under the command of Captain Arent S. Crowninshield. On 5 November 1895, \"Maine\" steamed to Sandy Hook Bay, New Jersey. She anchored there two days, then proceeded to Newport, Rhode Island, for fitting out and test firing of her torpedoes. After a trip, later that month, to Portland, Maine, she reported to the North Atlantic Squadron for operations, training manoeuvres and fleet exercises. \"Maine\" spent her active career with the North Atlantic Squadron, operating from Norfolk, Virginia along the East Coast of the United States and the Caribbean. On 10 April 1897, Captain Charles Dwight Sigsbee relieved Captain Crowninshield as commander of \"Maine\".\n\nThe ship's crew consisted of 355: 26 officers, 290 sailors, and 39 marines. Of these, there were 261 fatalities:\n\nOf the 94 survivors, 16 were uninjured.\n\nIn January 1898, \"Maine\" was sent from Key West, Florida, to Havana, Cuba, to protect U.S. interests during the Cuban War of Independence. Three weeks later, at 21:40, on 15 February, an explosion on board \"Maine\" occurred in the Havana Harbor (coordinates: 23°08′07″N 82°20′38″W). Later investigations revealed that more than of powder charges for the vessel's six- and ten-inch guns had detonated, obliterating the forward third of the ship. The remaining wreckage rapidly settled to the bottom of the harbor. Most of \"Maine\"s crew were sleeping or resting in the enlisted quarters, in the forward part of the ship, when the explosion occurred. In total, 260 men lost their lives as a result of the explosion or shortly thereafter, and six more died later from injuries. Captain Sigsbee and most of the officers survived, because their quarters were in the aft portion of the ship. Altogether there were 89 survivors, 18 of whom were officers. On 21 March, the U.S. Naval Court of Inquiry, in Key West, declared that a naval mine caused the explosion.\n\nThe \"New York Journal\" and \"New York World\", owned respectively by William Randolph Hearst and Joseph Pulitzer, gave \"Maine\" intense press coverage, but employed tactics that would later be labeled \"yellow journalism.\" Both papers exaggerated and distorted any information they could obtain, sometimes even fabricating news when none that fit their agenda was available. For a week following the sinking, the \"Journal\" devoted a daily average of eight and a half pages of news, editorials and pictures to the event. Its editors sent a full team of reporters and artists to Havana, including Frederic Remington, and Hearst announced a reward of $50,000 \"for the conviction of the criminals who sent 258 American sailors to their deaths.\" The \"World,\" while overall not as lurid or shrill in tone as the \"Journal,\" nevertheless indulged in similar theatrics, insisting continually that \"Maine\" had been bombed or mined. Privately, Pulitzer believed that \"nobody outside a lunatic asylum\" really believed that Spain sanctioned \"Maine\"s destruction. Nevertheless, this did not stop the \"World\" from insisting that the only \"atonement\" Spain could offer the U.S. for the loss of ship and life, was the granting of complete Cuban independence. Nor did it stop the paper from accusing Spain of \"treachery, willingness, or laxness\" for failing to ensure the safety of Havana Harbor. The American public, already agitated over reported Spanish atrocities in Cuba, was driven to increased hysteria.\n\n\"Maine\"s destruction did not result in an immediate declaration of war with Spain. However, the event created an atmosphere that virtually precluded a peaceful solution. The Spanish–American War began in April 1898, two months after the sinking. Advocates of the war used the rallying cry, \"Remember the \"Maine!\" To hell with Spain!\" The episode focused national attention on the crisis in Cuba, but was not cited by the William McKinley administration as a \"casus belli\", though it was cited by some already inclined to go to war with Spain over perceived atrocities and loss of control in Cuba.\n\nIn addition to the inquiry commissioned by the Spanish government to naval officers Del Peral and De Salas, two Naval Courts of Inquiry were ordered: The Sampson Board in 1898 and the Vreeland board in 1911. In 1976, Admiral Hyman G. Rickover commissioned a private investigation into the explosion, and the National Geographic Society did an investigation in 1999, using computer simulations. All investigations agreed that an explosion of the forward magazines caused the destruction of the ship, but different conclusions were reached as to how the magazines could have exploded.\n\nThe Spanish inquiry, conducted by Del Peral and De Salas, collected evidence from officers of naval artillery, who had examined the remains of \"Maine\". Del Peral and De Salas identified the spontaneous combustion of the coal bunker, located adjacent to the munition stores in \"Maine\", as the likely cause of the explosion. However, the possibility of other combustibles causing the explosion such as paint or drier products was not discounted. Additional observations included that:\nThe conclusions of the report were not reported at that time by the American press.\n\nIn order to find the cause of the explosion, a naval inquiry was ordered by the United States shortly after the incident, headed by Captain William T. Sampson. Ramón Blanco y Erenas, Spanish governor of Cuba, had proposed instead a joint Spanish-American investigation of the sinking. Captain Sigsbee had written that \"many Spanish officers, including representatives of General Blanco, now with us to express sympathy.\" In a cable, the Spanish minister of colonies, Segismundo Moret, had advised Blanco \"to gather every fact you can, to prove the \"Maine\" catastrophe cannot be attributed to us.\"\n\nAccording to Dana Wegner, who worked with U.S. Admiral Hyman G. Rickover on his 1974 investigation of the sinking, the Secretary of the Navy had the option of selecting a board of inquiry personally. Instead, he fell back on protocol and assigned the commander-in-chief of the North Atlantic Squadron to do so. The commander produced a list of junior line officers for the board. The fact that the officer proposed to be court president was junior to the captain of \"Maine\", Wegner writes, \"would indicate either ignorance of navy regulations or that, in the beginning, the board did not intend to examine the possibility that the ship was lost by accident and the negligence of her captain.\" Eventually, navy regulations prevailed in leadership of the board; Captain Sampson being senior to Captain Sigsbee.\n\nThe board arrived on 21 February and took testimony from survivors, witnesses and divers (who were sent down to investigate the wreck). The Sampson Board produced its findings in two parts: the proceedings, which consisted mainly of testimonies, and the findings, which were the facts, as determined by the court. Between the proceedings and the findings, there was, what Wegner calls, \"a broad gap\", where the court \"left no record of the reasoning that carried it from the often–inconsistent witnesses to [its] conclusion.\" Another inconsistency, according to Wegner, was that of only one technical witness, Commander George Converse, from the Torpedo Station at Newport, Rhode Island. Captain Sampson read Commander Converse a hypothetical situation of a coal bunker fire igniting the reserve six-inch ammunition, with a resulting explosion sinking the ship. He then asked Commander Converse about the feasibility of such a scenario. Commander Converse \"simply stated, without elaboration, that he could not realize such an event happening\".\n\nThe board concluded that \"Maine\" had been blown up by a mine, which, in turn, caused the explosion of her forward magazines. They reached this conclusion, based on the fact that the majority of witnesses stated that they had heard two explosions and that that part of the keel was bent inwards. The official report from the board, which was presented to the Navy Department in Washington, D.C. on 21 March, specifically stated the following:\n\nIn 1910, the decision was made to do a second Court of Inquiry. The reasons for this were the recovery of the bodies of the victims, so they could be buried in the United States and also a desire for a more thorough investigation. The fact that the Cuban government wanted the wreck removed from Havana Harbor might also have played a role: it at least offered the opportunity to examine the wreck in greater detail than had been possible in 1898, while simultaneously obliging the Cubans. Wegner suggests that the fact that this inquiry could be held without the pending risk of war, which had been the case in 1898, lent it the potential for greater objectivity than had been possible previously. Moreover, since several of the members of the 1910 board would be certified engineers, they would be better qualified to evaluate their findings than the line officers of the 1898 board had been.\n\nBeginning in December 1910, a cofferdam was built around the wreck and water was pumped out, exposing the wreck by late 1911. Between 20 November and 2 December 1911, a court of inquiry headed by Rear Admiral Charles E. Vreeland inspected the wreck. They concluded that an external explosion had triggered the explosion of the magazines. However, this explosion was farther aft and lower powered than concluded by the Sampson Board. The Vreeland Board also found that the bending of frame 18 was caused by the explosion of the magazines, not by the external explosion. After the investigation, the newly located dead were buried in Arlington National Cemetery and the hollow, intact portion of the hull of \"Maine\" was refloated and ceremoniously scuttled at sea on 16 March 1912.\n\nAdmiral Hyman G. Rickover became intrigued with the disaster and began a private investigation, in 1974. Using information from the two official inquiries, newspapers, personal papers and information on the construction and ammunition of \"Maine\", it was concluded that the explosion was not caused by a mine. Instead, spontaneous combustion of coal in the bunker, next to magazine, was speculated to be the most likely cause. Rickover published a book about this investigation, \"How the Battleship \"Maine\" Was Destroyed\", in 1976.\n\nIn the 2001 book \"Theodore Roosevelt, the U.S. Navy and the Spanish–American War\", Wegner revisits the Rickover investigation and offers additional details. According to Wegner, Rickover inquired with naval historians, at the Energy Research and Development Agency, about \"Maine\", after reading an article in the \"Washington Star-News\" in which its author, John M. Taylor, claimed the U.S. Navy \"made little use of its technically trained officers during its investigation of the tragedy.\" The historians, then working with the admiral on a study of the U.S. Navy's nuclear propulsion program, said they knew no details of \"Maine\"s sinking. When Rickover asked whether they could investigate the matter, the historians, now intrigued, agreed. Knowing of Rickover's \"insistence on thoroughness,\" Wegner says, all relevant documents were obtained and studied. These included the ship's plans and weekly reports of the unwatering of \"Maine\", in 1912, by the chief engineer for the project, William Furgueson. These reports included numerous photos, annotated by Furgueson with frame and strake numbers on corresponding parts of the wreckage. Two experts on naval demolitions and ship explosions were brought in. Since the photos showed \"no plausible evidence of penetration from the outside,\" they believed the explosion originated inside the ship.\n\nWegner suggests that a combination of naval ship design, and a change in the type of coal used to fuel naval ships, might have facilitated the explosion postulated by the Rickover study. Up to the time of \"Maine\"s building, he explains, common bulkheads separated coal bunkers from ammunition lockers and American naval ships burned primarily smokeless anthracite coal. With an increase in the number of steel ships, the U.S. Navy switched to bituminous coal, which burned at a hotter temperature than anthracite coal, and allowed ships to steam faster. However, Wegner explains, while anthracite coal is not subject to spontaneous combustion, bituminous coal is considerably more volatile. In fact, bituminous coal is known for releasing the largest amounts of firedamp, a dangerous and explosive mixture of gases (chiefly methane). Firedamp is explosive at concentrations between 4% and 16%, with most violence at around 10%. In addition, there was another potential contributing factor in the bituminous coal – this was iron sulfide, also known as pyrite, that was likely present. The presence of pyrites presents two additional risk factors. The first involves oxidation. Pyrite oxidation is sufficiently exothermic that underground coal mines in high-sulfur coal seams have occasionally had serious problems with spontaneous combustion in the mined-out areas of the mine. This process can result from the disruption caused by mining from the seams, or other processing, which then exposes the sulfides in the ore to air and water. The presence of pyrites in coal has been recognized to be self-heating. The second risk factor involves an additional capability of pyrites to provide fire ignition under certain conditions. Pyrites, which derive their name from the Greek root word pyr, which means fire, can cause sparks when struck by steel or other sufficiently hard surfaces. Before the use of flintlock guns, for example, pyrites were used to strike sparks to ignite gunpowder in an earlier model type gun, known as a wheellock. In the presence of combustible gasses issuing from the bituminous coal, the pyrites could therefore have provided the ignition capability needed to create an explosion. A number of bunker fires of this type had, in fact, been reported aboard U.S. warships before \"Maine\"s explosion, in several cases nearly sinking the ships. Wegner also cites a 1997 heat transfer study which concluded that a coal bunker fire, of the type suggested by Rickover, could have taken place and ignited the ship's ammunition.\n\nIn 1998, \"National Geographic\" magazine commissioned an analysis by Advanced Marine Enterprises (AME). This investigation, done to commemorate the centennial of the sinking of USS \"Maine\", was based on computer modeling, a technique unavailable for previous investigations. The results reached were inconclusive. \"National Geographic\" reported that \"a fire in the coal bunker could have generated sufficient heat to touch off an explosion in the adjacent magazine [but] on the other hand, computer analysis also shows that even a small, handmade mine could have penetrated the ship's hull and set off explosions within.\" The AME investigation, however, did note that \"the size and location of the soil depression beneath the \"Maine\" 'is more readily explained by a mine explosion than by magazine explosions alone'\". The team noted that this was not \"definitive in proving that a mine was the cause of the sinking\" although it did \"strengthen the case\".\n\nSome experts, including Admiral Rickover's team and several analysts at AME, do not agree with the conclusion. Wegner claims that technical opinion among the \"Geographic\" team was divided between its younger members, who focused on computer modeling results, and its older ones, who weighed their inspection of photos of the wreck with their own experience. He adds that the data AME used for its findings were flawed concerning \"Maine\"s design and ammunition storage. Wegner was also critical of the fact that participants in the Rickover study were not consulted until AME's analysis was essentially complete, far too late to confirm the veracity of data being used or engage in any other meaningful cooperation.\n\nIn 2002, the Discovery Channel produced an episode of the \"Unsolved History\" documentaries titled \"Death of the U.S.S. \"Maine\"\" that used photographic evidence, naval experts, and archival information to determine the cause of the explosion. Its conclusion was that a coal bunker fire caused the explosion, and it identified a weakness or gap in the bulkhead separating the coal and powder bunkers that allowed the fire to spread from the coal bunker to the powder bunker.\n\nIt has been suggested by some that the sinking was a false flag operation conducted by the U.S. This is the official view in Cuba. Cuban officials argue that the U.S. may have deliberately sunk the ship to create a pretext for military action against Spain. The wording on the \"Maine\" monument in Havana describes \"Maine\"s sailors as \"victims sacrificed to the imperialist greed in its fervor to seize control of Cuba\", which alludes to the theory that U.S. agents deliberately blew up their own ship.\n\nEliades Acosta, a prominent Cuban historian, head of the Cuban Communist Party's Committee on Culture and former director of the Jose Marti National Library in Havana, offered the standard Cuban interpretation of the sinking of the Maine (that the United States itself probably did it) in an interview to \"The New York Times\". But Acosta adds that \"Americans died for the freedom of Cuba, and that should be recognized. But others wanted to annex Cuba, and that should be criticized. If relations with the United States improve, all these things can be re-examined more fairly\". This claim has also been made in Russia. Mikhail Khazin, a Russian economist who once ran the cultural section at Komsomolskaya Pravda, speaking in a 2008 Pravda interview of the need in troubled times to change the psychology of society, to unite it, said that \"the Americans blew up their own battleship \"Maine\".\"\n\nOperation Northwoods was a series of proposals prepared by Pentagon officials for the Joint Chiefs of Staff in 1962, setting out a number of proposed false flag operations that could be blamed on the Cuban Communists in order to rally support against them. One of these suggested that a U.S. Navy ship be blown up in Guantanamo Bay deliberately. In an echo of the yellow press headlines of the earlier period, the specific phrase \"A 'Remember the \"Maine\"' incident\" was used.\n\nFor several years, \"Maine\" was left where she sank in Havana Harbor, although it was evident she would have to be removed sometime. \"Maine\" took up valuable space and the buildup of silt around her hull threatened to create a shoal. In addition, various patriotic groups wanted mementos of the ship. On 9 May 1910, Congress authorized funds for the removal of \"Maine\", the proper interment in Arlington National Cemetery of the estimated 70 bodies still inside, and the removal and transport of the main mast to Arlington. Congress did not demand a new investigation into the sinking at that time.\n\nThe Army Corps of Engineers built a cofferdam around \"Maine\" and pumped water out from inside it. By 30 June 1911, \"Maine\"s main deck was exposed. The ship forward of frame 41 was entirely destroyed; a twisted mass of steel out of line with the rest of the hull, all that was left of the bow, bore no resemblance to a ship. The rest of the wreck was badly corroded. Army engineers dismantled the damaged superstructure and decks, which were then dumped at sea. About halfway between bow and stern, they built a concrete and wooden bulkhead to seal the after-section, then cut away what was left of the forward portion. Holes were cut in the bottom of the after-section, through which jets of water were pumped, to break the mud seal holding the ship, then plugged, with flood cocks, which would later be used for sinking the ship.\n\nThe \"Maine\" had been outfitted with Worthington steam pumps. Although lying on the bottom of Havana Harbor for fourteen years these pumps were found to be still operational, and were subsequently used to raise the ship.\nOn 13 February 1912, the engineers let water back into the interior of the cofferdam. Three days later, the interior of the cofferdam was full and \"Maine\" floated. Two days after that, \"Maine\" was towed out by the tug . The bodies of its crew were then removed to the armored cruiser for repatriation. On 16 March, \"Maine\" was towed four miles from the Cuban coast by \"Osceola\", escorted by \"North Carolina\" and the light cruiser . Its sea cocks were opened and it sank in of water to the salutes of \"Birmingham\" and \"North Carolina\". During the salvage, remains of 66 more were found, of whom only one (an engineering officer) was identified and returned to his home town; the rest were reburied at Arlington Cemetery making a total of 229 buried there.\n\nIn 2000, the wreck of \"Maine\" was rediscovered by Advanced Digital Communications, a Toronto-based expedition company, in about 3,770 feet (1,150 m) of water roughly 3 miles (4.8 km) northeast of Havana Harbor. The company had been working with Cuban scientists and oceanographers from the University of South Florida College of Marine Science, on testing underwater exploration technology. The ship had been discovered east of where it was believed it had been scuttled; according to the researchers, during the sinking ceremony and the time it took the wreck to founder, currents pushed the \"Maine\" east until it came to rest at its present location. Before the team identified the site as \"Maine\", they referred to the location as the \"square\" due to its unique shape, and at first they did not believe it was the ship, due to its unexpected location. The site was explored with an ROV. According to Dr. Frank Muller-Karger, the hull was not oxidized and the crew could \"see all of its structural parts\". The expedition was able to identify the ship due to the doors and hatches on the wreck, as well as the anchor chain, the shape of the propellers, and the holes where the bow was cut off. Due to the 1912 raising of the ship, the wreck was completely missing its bow; this tell-tale feature was instrumental in identifying the ship. The team also located a boiler nearby, and a debris field of coal.\n\nIn February 1898, the recovered bodies of sailors who died on \"Maine\" were interred in the Colon Cemetery, Havana. Some injured sailors were sent to hospitals in Havana and Key West, Florida. Those who died in hospitals were buried in Key West. In December 1899, the bodies in Havana were disinterred and brought back to the United States for burial at Arlington National Cemetery. In 1915, President Woodrow Wilson dedicated the USS \"Maine\" Mast Memorial to those who died. The memorial includes the ship's main mast. Roughly 165 were buried at Arlington, although the remains of one sailor were exhumed for his home town, Indianapolis, Indiana. Of the rest, only 62 were known. Nine bodies were never recovered and 19 crewmen, several unidentified, are buried in Key West Cemetery under a statue of a U.S. Sailor holding an oar.\n\nThe explosion-bent fore mast of \"Maine\" is located at the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland.\n\nIn 1926, the Cuban government erected a memorial to the victims of \"Maine\" on the Malecon, near the Hotel Nacional, to commemorate United States assistance in acquiring Cuban independence from Spain. The monument features two of \"Maine\"'s four 10-inch guns. In 1961, the memorial was damaged by crowds, following the Bay of Pigs Invasion, and the eagle on top was broken and removed. The Communist government then added its own inscription blaming \"imperialist voracity in its eagerness to seize the island of Cuba\" for \"Maine\"s sinking. The monument was cleaned and restored in 2013. However, the eagle's head was retained by the U.S. Interests Section in Havana, and the body by the city's museum.\n\nA 6-inch deck gun from \"Maine\" is on the North lawn of the South Carolina State House in Columbia, SC.\n\nA bronze torpedo tube and armoured hatch form part of a memorial in West Park, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, just south of West North Avenue, http://www.waymarking.com/waymarks/WM769B_Maine_Memorial_Pittsburgh_PA\n\nThere is also a U.S.S. Maine Memorial plaque<visible in photographs and physically in situ> at the south door of the Jefferson County Courthouse, in Steubenville, OH.\n\n\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6528692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6528692", "title": "Women and children first", "text": "Women and children first\n\n\"Women and children first\" (or to a lesser extent, the Birkenhead Drill) is a code of conduct dating from 1852, whereby the lives of women and children were to be saved first in a life-threatening situation, typically abandoning ship, when survival resources such as lifeboats were limited.\n\nWhile the phrase first appeared in the 1860 novel \"Harrington: A Story of True Love\", by William Douglas O'Connor, the first documented application of \"women and children first\" was in May 1840 when, after a lightning-strike, fire broke out aboard the American packet \"Poland\" en route from New York to Le Havre. According to a passenger, J.H. Buckingham of Boston:\n\n\"... the captain said that he had little doubt that the ship was on fire, and that we must endeavor to get at it. On a suggestion that we might be obliged to take to the boats, it was immediately remarked by one of our French passengers, and responded to by others - 'Let us take care of the women and children first.'\" \n\nThis led to a precautionary evacuation of women, children and a few male passengers into the longboat while the other male passengers and crew remained aboard to fight the blaze. As Buckingham was a journalist his vivid account of the incident was published first in the \"Boston Courier\", picked up by other papers including \"The Times\" (London) and also reprinted in a book published in the same year, thus gaining wide currency.\n\nA more noted instance occurred during the 1852 evacuation of the Royal Navy troopship . It is, however, most famously associated with the sinking of RMS \"Titanic\" in 1912.\n\nAs a code of conduct, \"women and children first\" has no basis in maritime law. According to disaster evacuation expert Ed Galea, in modern-day evacuations people will usually \"help the most vulnerable to leave the scene first, likely to be the injured, elderly and young children.\"\n\nIn the Boy Scouts of America's Sea Scouting program, \"Women and children first\" is considered \"the motto of the sea.\"\n\nA well known appearance of the phrase \"women and children first\" occurred in the 1860 novel \"Harrington: A Story of True Love\", during the recounting of the death of Captain Harrington, the father of the eponymous character John Harrington. Captain Harrington’s fictional death illustrates not only the concept of \"women and children first\" but also that of \"the captain goes down with his ship\".\n\nDuring the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, ships typically did not carry enough lifeboats to save all the passengers and crew in the event of disaster. In 1870, answering a question at the House of Commons of the United Kingdom about the sinking of the paddle steamer \"Normandy\", George Shaw-Lefevre said that,\n\nThe practice of women and children first arose from the actions of soldiers during the sinking of the Royal Navy troopship in 1852 after it struck rocks. Captain Robert Salmond RN ordered Colonel Seton to send men to the chain pumps; sixty were directed to this task, sixty more were assigned to the tackles of the lifeboats, and the rest were assembled on the poop deck in order to raise the forward part of the ship. The women and children were placed in the ship's cutter, which lay alongside. The sinking was memorialized in newspapers and paintings of the time, and in poems such as Rudyard Kipling's 1893 \"Soldier an' Sailor Too\".\n\nBy the turn of the 20th century, larger ships meant more people could travel, but regulations were generally still insufficient to provide for all passengers: for example British legislation concerning the number of lifeboats was based on the tonnage of a vessel and only encompassed vessels of \"10,000 gross tons and over\". The result was that a sinking usually involved a moral dilemma for passengers and crew as to whose lives should be saved with the limited available lifeboats.\n\nThe phrase was popularised by its usage on the . The Second Officer suggested to Captain Smith, \"Hadn't we better get the women and children into the boats, sir?\", to which the captain responded: \"put the women and children in and lower away\". The First (Officer Murdoch) and Second (Officer Lightoller) officers interpreted the evacuation order differently; Murdoch took it to mean women and children \"first\", while Lightoller took it to mean women and children \"only\". Second Officer Lightoller lowered lifeboats with empty seats if there were no women and children waiting to board, while First Officer Murdoch allowed a limited number of men to board if all the nearby women and children had embarked. As a consequence, 74% of the women and 52% of the children on board were saved, but only 20% of the men. Some officers on the \"Titanic\" misinterpreted the order from Captain Smith, and tried to prevent men from boarding the lifeboats. It was intended that women and children would board first, with any remaining free spaces for men. Because not all women and children were saved on the \"Titanic\", the few men who survived, like White Star official J. Bruce Ismay, were initially branded as cowards.\n\nThere is no legal basis for the protocol of women and children first in international maritime law.\n\nA more recent application of \"women and children first\" occurred in March 2011, when a floating restaurant in Covington, Kentucky, tore from its moorings, stranding 83 people on the Ohio River. Women were rescued first; there were no casualties of either sex.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1499343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1499343", "title": "Zaki al-Arsuzi", "text": "Zaki al-Arsuzi\n\nZakī al-Arsūzī (; June 18992 July 1968) was a Syrian philosopher, philologist, sociologist, historian, and Arab nationalist. His ideas played a significant role in the development of Ba'athism and its political movement. He published several books during his lifetime, most notably \"The Genius of Arabic in its Tongue\" (1943).\n\nBorn into a middle-class family in Latakia, Syria, al-Arsuzi studied at the Sorbonne, where he became interested in nationalism. In 1930, he returned to Syria, where he became a member of the League of National Action (LNA) in 1933. In 1938, he moved to Damascus because of his disillusionment with party work, and in 1939, he left the LNA. In Damascus al-Arsuzi established and headed a group consisting of mostly secondary school pupils who would often discuss European history, nationalism and philosophy. Shortly after leaving the LNA, al-Arsuzi established the Arab National Party, an Arab nationalist party with a \"defined creed\". It was not a success and, on his return to Syria in November 1940 after a brief stay in Baghdad, al-Arsuzi established a new party, the Arab Ba'ath; by 1944, however, most of its members had left and joined Michel Aflaq's and Salah al-Din al-Bitar's Arab Ba'ath Movement, which subscribed to a nearly identical doctrine.\n\nIn 1947, the two movements merged, forming a single Arab Ba'ath Party. Despite the merger, Al-Arsuzi neither attended its founding conference nor was given membership.\n\nDuring the rest of the 1940s and 1950s, al-Arsuzi stayed out of politics and worked as a teacher. He made a comeback during the 1960s power struggle in the Ba'ath Party between Aflaq and al-Bitar on one hand and Salah Jadid and Hafiz al-Assad on the other. When Aflaq and al-Bitar lost the power struggle and were forced to escape from Syria in 1966, al-Arsuzi replaced Aflaq as the main ideologue of the Syrian-led faction of the Ba'ath Party.\n\nAl-Arsuzi's theories about society, language and nationalism, which are collectively part of Ba'athist thought, hold that the Arab Nation will be unified when the Arab people reestablish the Arab identity they have lost over the past 1000 years. The key to Arab unification, according to al-Arsuzi, is through language. In contrast to the Latin language, al-Arsuzi argued, Arabic was far less arbitrary and far more intuitive. Despite his contributions to Ba'athist thought, al-Arsuzi is barely mentioned in Western or Arab scholarship. This omission may be linked to the fact that Sati' al-Husri, a contemporary Arab nationalist, had many of the same ideas as al-Arsuzi but was better able to articulate them.\n\nZaki al-Arsuzi was born in 1900 or 1901 to a middle-class family of Alawi origins in Latakia on the Syrian coast of the Ottoman Empire. His mother, Maryam came from a prominent religious family, while his father, Najib was a lawyer. With his two brothers, one sister and his parents moved to Antioch in 1904. Arsuzi began his studies at a kuttab where he memorised the \"Quran\". Four years later, his parents enrolled him into a rüşdiye to give him a proper Ottoman education. His father was arrested by Ottoman authorities in 1915 for nationalist activities; Arsuzi later believed that this event triggered his interest in nationalist politics. His father was imprisoned for a short period before he and his family were sent to internal exile in the Anatolian city of Konya. After a year in exile, Najib and his family were allowed to move back to Antioch. According to Arsuzi, his father replaced the Ottoman flag with the Hashemite flag on the Antioch government house upon hearing the news that Faisal I of Iraq had entered Damascus. This however, was never independently verified.\n\nIn the aftermath of World War I, Arsuzi began studying at Institut Laïc in Lebanon. It was here that Arsuzi was introduced to philosophy. Also, during his stay, Arsuzi was able to perfect his French. During Arsuzi's studying at Institut Laïc his atheism became notorious, and he was often caught saying \"Sons of Earth are more capable of directing their affairs than sons of heaven.\" After finishing his studies, Arsuzi got a job as a mathematics teacher in a local secondary school in Antioch. However, he later received the job of heading the school district of Arsuz – a job he held from 1924–26. In 1927 Arsuzi received a scholarship from the French High Commission to study at the Sorbonne University in France. He studied there from 1927 to 1930, but never obtained a degree from the Sorbonne. During his stay at the Sorbonne, Arsuzi befriended former French colonial administrator Jean Gaulmier. At the Sorbonne, Arsuzi developed an interest in 19th-century European philosophy; he became attracted to the thoughts of Georges Dumas, Emile Brehier, Leon Brunschvig (his philosophy professor), Henri Bergson and Johann Gottlieb Fichte among others. The books which influenced Arsuzi most at the time were Bergson's \"L'Evolution créatrice\" and Fichte's \"Reden an die deutsche Nation\"; of these, Fichte is the philosopher Arsuzi identified most with. Both Fichte and Bergson wrote of the importance of education and in the core there was the nation.\n\nAl-Arsuzi returned to Syria in 1930 and later worked as a teacher in Antioch in 1932. \"The awakening was brutal,\" according to historian Patrick Seale. The French authorities in Syria prohibited al-Arsuzi from teaching his students about European philosophy and the French Revolution among other topics. When he was caught teaching his students about the ideals of the French revolution—liberty, equality, fraternity—he was forced out of the class. In 1934 al-Arsuzi founded a student club, the Club des Beaux Arts, with the ambition of spreading French culture; the club was frowned upon by the French authorities. Later that year al-Arsuzi began his political career in earnest and became a strident Arab nationalist.\n\nIn August 1933, al-Arsuzi and fifty other Arab nationalists established the League of National Action (LNA) in the Lebanese city of Quarna'il. Most of the Arab parties at that time were dominated by the former Ottoman elite or had high levels of Ottoman membership. The LNA was one of the few exceptions; the majority of LNA members were young and had been educated in the West. While LNA initially proved popular with the people, its popularity shrank when its founder Abd al-Razzaq al-Dandashi died in 1935. Al-Arsuzi was the LNA's regional head in Antioch, from the founding of the party in 1933 until 1939. \n\nWhen Turkey first attempted to annex the province of Alexandretta in the early 1930s, al-Arsuzi became one of the most vocal critics of Turkey's policy towards Syria; he became a symbol of the Arab nationalist struggle. In 1939 France, which controlled Syria, ceded the province to Turkey in order to establish an alliance with that state. Al-Arsuzi left the LNA shortly thereafter.\n\nAl-Arsuzi moved to Damascus in 1938 and began working on his idea of Arabism and Arab nationalism. Disillusioned with party politics, he gathered several secondary school pupils to establish a learning group. At the group's meetings, al-Arsuzi would talk about, for instance, the French Revolution, the Meiji Restoration, German Unification and Italian Unification, or about the ideas of Fichte, Friedrich Nietzsche, Karl Marx, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Oswald Spengler and Henri Bergson. Shortly after leaving the LNA, al-Arsuzi established the Arab National Party, an Arab nationalist party with a \"defined creed\". The party did not last long; al-Arsuzi left for Baghdad at the end of the year. During his stay in Baghdad, al-Arsuzi tried, idealistically, to enlighten Iraqis with his thoughts of Arab nationalism, but returned to Syria disappointed in 1940. On 29 November 1940 al-Arsuzi founded the Arab Ba'ath.\n\nAround the same time that al-Arsuzi founded the Arab Ba'ath another group, led by Michel Aflaq and Salah al-Din al-Bitar, established the Arab Ihya Movement. Patrick Seale states that al-Arsuzi issued pamphlets under the name \"Al-Ba'ath, Al-'Arabi\", while the Arab Ilhya Movement published pamphlets under the name \"al-Ihya, al-'Arabi\". While Aflaq and al-Bitar left work to focus on the party organisation, al-Arsuzi worked as a teacher until 1959. There were not many members in the party, and most of them used their time reading, writing and translating works. In June 1941 al-Arsuzi was exiled from Damascus, three members were arrested and the remaining members fled. The following year, in 1942, al-Arsuzi and his associates tried to revitalise the party, but the attempt failed. One of his associates claims that al-Arsuzi had become bitter and even paranoid during his one-year exile, exclaiming that the group \"loved the people and hated the individual; [his group] held the whole sacred, but they despised the parts\". By 1944 the majority of Arab Ba'ath members had left the organisation for the more active Arab Ihya Movement (renamed to Arab Ba'ath Movement in 1943). Relations between Aflaq and al-Arsuzi were bitter at best; al-Arsuzi accused Aflaq of stealing his party's name.\n\nAt the same time, al-Arsuzi's interest in politics was waning, and he spent an increasing amount of his time engaging in philology. In 1943 this work culminated in the publication of a book, \"The Genius of Arabic in its Tongue\", an analysis of the roots and distinctive features of the Arabic language (see the Culture and language section). Despite this, al-Arsuzi appeared increasing unbalanced mentally. Several people noted that he became less social, and was more inclined to shun social contacts and friends. He would later suffer from delusions. He was forced to move on again in 1949, this time living in Lattakia and later moving to live with his mother in Tarsus. It was there that his mother would die, poverty-stricken. According to one of his associates, al-Arsuzi himself spent a great deal of time living in \"extreme poverty\", reduced \"to a life of penury and persecution\" by the French authorities.\n\nAl-Arsuzi's popularity within his own ranks lessened after Rashid Ali al-Gaylani's coup in Iraq. While Aflaq and al-Bitar founded the Syrian Committee to Help Iraq to support Iraq during the Anglo–Iraqi War, al-Arsuzi opposed any involvement on the grounds that al-Gaylani's policies would fail. While several Arab Ba'ath members agreed with al-Arsuzi's conclusion, the majority were attracted to Aflaq's romanticism. Another reason for the Arab Ba'ath's failure was al-Arsuzi's deep mistrust of others; when a party member had written a manifesto entitled \"Arab Ba'ath\", al-Arsuzi \"saw in it an imperialist plot to block his way to the people\".\n\nThe Arab Ba'ath Movement, led by Aflaq and al-Bitar, was merged into the Arab Ba'ath Party in 1947. During negotiations Wahib al-Ghanim and Jalal al-Sayyid, not al-Arsuzi, represented the Arab Ba'ath, while Aflaq and al-Bitar represented the Arab Ba'ath Movement. The only policy issue which was discussed in great detail was how socialist the party was going to be. The groups came to an agreement; the Ba'ath movement became radicalised, and moved further to the left. Al-Arsuzi did not attend the founding congress, nor was he given membership in the new party.\n\nAfter his return from Baghdad in 1940, al-Arsuzi had gained a position teaching philosophy, but he was soon dismissed from it. From 1945 until 1952 he worked again as a secondary teacher, first in Hama and then in Aleppo, and from 1952 until his retirement in 1959, he taught in a teacher training college.\n\nIn 1963, in the wake of the Sixth National Congress of the Ba'ath Party and the party's gradual alienation from its founders Aflaq and Bitar, Hafiz al-Asad arranged for Arsuzi to help with Ba'athist ideological formation in the army, and later ensured that he was granted a state pension. Al-Arsuzi was elected to a seat in the National Command of the Ba'ath Party in 1965. Salah Jadid, the Ba'ath Party strongman at the time, opposed Aflaq's and al-Bitar's leadership of the party and, because of it, wanted al-Arsuzi to replace them as the original founder of Ba'athist thought. Following the Ba'ath Party split of 1966 (the party split into two branches, one Iraqi-led Ba'ath Party and one Syrian-led Ba'ath Party) al-Arsuzi became the Syrian-led Ba'ath Party's main ideologue, while Aflaq was the \"de jure\" ideologue of the Iraqi-led Ba'ath Party. From 1966 to 1968 al-Arsuzi acted as al-Assad's and Jadid's personal ideological mentor. Al-Arsuzi died in Damascus on 2 July 1968.\n\nAl-Arsuzi's central thought was the unification of the Arab Nation. He believed that the Arab Nation could trace its roots to the pre-Islamic and early Islamic period of Arab history. The historical link to an Arab Nation was more important to al-Arsuzi than it was to other Arab nationalists and Ba'athists. The only way to create a new Arab Nation in the Modern Age was to reestablish a link between the Arab people of the past and those of the present through language—the only true remnant of the old Arab identity. In short, language was the key to regain what had been lost (the Arab Nation) and reinvigorate the Arab identity. Al-Arsuzi believed that the Arabs lost their common identity when they allowed non–Arabs to participate in government. The result was that several laws had non-Arab characteristics—these laws, and other changes brought by non-Arabs, weakened Arab identity.\n\nAl-Arsuzi paid considerable attention to cultural matters, and Batatu records that the only condition of membership in his organisation was \"to write or translate a book contributing to the resurrection [\"ba'ath\"] of Arab heritage.\" He has been described as a proponent of the \"linguistic image of Arab nationalism\", and in 1942 published one of his most important works, \"Abqariyyat al-'arabiyya fi lisaniha\" (\"The Genius of Arabic in its Tongue\"). His approach was distinguished by its emphasis on philology, but he did also pay attention to problems of the modern state and to questions of democracy and the locus of power. Batatu has also described al-Arsuzi as having a racist outlook, which proved in the end intellectually sterile and unsatisfactory to his followers, and as having been deeply influenced in his thought by the tenets of his Alawi religious background.\n\nAl-Arsuzi argued that unlike the Latin language, which is conventional and uses arbitrary signs to explain certain objects, the Arabic language formed words derived from the vocalism of its syllables and \"in its expression of a direct representation of a natural object\" – unlike Latin, Arabic is essentially in conformity with nature. Arabic is, according to al-Arsuzi, an intuitive language; there is \"a natural sympathy\" between the pronunciation of Arabic words and their meaning: an Arabic word is united with its meaning by definition of a referent, which is absorbed in such an operation. For al-Arsuzi, the identity of the Arab Nation is embodied in the Arab language; it is the language that forms the source of the nationalist spirit. According to al-Arsuzi's theory, European nationalism is based on the principle of causality, while Arab nationalism is based on the principle of spontaneity. Al-Arsuzi's definition of language is in contrast to that of Socrates and other thinkers.\n\nAl-Arsuzi attributed the rise of European nationalism to revolutions in intellectual, social and economic domains. The first revolution came to being under the feudal system, which gave birth to human casual and relative relationships. The second revolution, the Scientific Revolution, led by Nicolaus Copernicus and Galileo Galilei, ended the conception of nature developed during the Medieval Ages. These events created the foundations of modern rationality. On this subject al-Arsuzi said, \"man was qualified to know the truth, since what is constructed by reason can be verified by experiment\". Al-Arsuzi summed up this particular view of human behaviour and civilization with René Descartes's words: \"Common sense or reason is naturally equal to man\". In al-Arsuzi's view, if humans were rational creatures, each would wish to organise themselves according to his or her own sense of reason, and hence would want to take over the affairs of state from oppressors (colonists). The colonists acted as a barrier to such \"rational\" change.\n\nModern life existed because of two things—science and industry. Science eliminated superstition, and replaced it with facts; and Industry enabled civilization to create a more strong, organised society where liberty, equality and democracy could become permanent. The experiences of the English and French Revolutions proved this; the revolutions gave the individual certain rights, so that the individual \"could conduct his own affairs according to his will\". \nThe demand for liberty would eventually evolve into the demand for independence, literally nationalism. Nationalism had, according to al-Arsuzi, manifested itself in all walks of life, from the rule of law to the arts; everything in a nation was the manifestation of that particular nation's identity. Al-Arsuzi's thesis marked a dividing line between the Medieval Ages and the Modern Age.\n\nAl-Arsuzi's work and thought is almost unknown and barely mentioned in Western scholarship on Arab nationalism. When he is actually mentioned in a text, it is predominantly on his irredentist views of the unified Arab Nation. Although his collected works have been published since the mid-1970s, al-Arsuzi's work on the Arabic language, which is central to al-Arsuzi's nationalist thought, are rarely mentioned at all. The study of al-Arsuzi's ideas in Arabic scholarship also lacking. Academic Yasir Suleiman gives the principal reason for this as the similarity of al-Arsuzi's works to those of Sati' al-Husri, a contemporary. Suleiman goes on to explain Al-Arsuzi's eclipsed legacy as the combination of a number of factors: firstly, in contrast to al-Husri's idea of language, al-Arsuzi's theory is self-defeating because it excluded other theories instead of including them. Secondly, his work was written with an elitist slant, rather than the populist one which al-Husri managed to convey. Thirdly, and in contrast to al-Husri's work, al-Arsuzi's work seemed old-fashioned, due to his use of old words and historical texts; moreover, while al-Arsuzi wrote about the symbolic need of an Arab Nation, al-Hustri wrote about the practical role of an Arab Nation—al-Arsuzi was obscure where al-Husri was transparent.\nWhereas Al-Husri was able to prove his arguments with empirical data, al-Arsuzi was unable. Thus, Suleiman writes, al-Husri appeared more informed then al-Arsuzi, when really he was not. The lack of empirical data in al-Arsuzi's work made it look parochial at times, while at other times his conclusions bordered on machoistic nationalism, which in turn could be interpreted as racism. Another reason for his \"negligible\" impact, according to Suleiman, was al-Arsuzi's idea on the need to replace the traditional Arabic grammar system with a new one. The Center for Research and Documentation on World Language Problems agrees with Suleiman's conclusion, but further claims that al-Arsuzi's work was \"often far-fetched and 'airy-fairy'\".\n\nSeveral Ba'athists, mostly from the Syrian-led Ba'ath Party, have denounced Aflaq as a \"thief\"; these critics claim that Aflaq had stolen the Ba'athist ideology from al-Arsuzi and proclaimed it as his own. Whatever the case may be, al-Arsuzi was hailed by Hafiz al-Assad, the Ba'athist leader of Syria, as the principal founder of Ba'athist thought, following the 1966 Ba'ath Party split. The Iraqi branch, however, still proclaims Aflaq as the founder of Ba'athism. Al-Assad has referred to al-Arsuzi as the \"greatest Syrian of his day\" and claimed him to be the \"first to conceive of the Ba'ath as a political movement.\" The Syrian Ba'athists have erected a statue in al-Arsuzi's honour; it was erected following the 1966 coup. Even so, the majority of Ba'athists still agree that Aflaq, not al-Arsuzi, was the principal founder of the Ba'ath movement. Despite this, Keith David Watenpaugh believes Ba'athism was conceived by the \"trio\" consisting of al-Arsuzi, Aflaq and Salah al-Din al-Bitar, and not one principal founder.\n\n\n"}
