{"id": "255926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=255926", "title": "1981 South Africa rugby union tour of New Zealand and the United States", "text": "1981 South Africa rugby union tour of New Zealand and the United States\n\nThe 1981 South African rugby tour (known in New Zealand as the Springbok Tour, and in South Africa as the Rebel Tour) polarised opinions and inspired widespread protests across New Zealand. The controversy also extended to the United States, where the South African rugby team continued their tour after departing New Zealand.\n\nApartheid had made South Africa an international pariah, and other countries were strongly discouraged from having sporting contacts with it. Rugby union was (and is) an extremely popular sport in New Zealand, and the South African team known as the Springboks were considered to be New Zealand's most formidable opponents. Therefore, there was a major split in opinion in New Zealand as to whether politics should influence sport in this way and whether the Springboks should be allowed to tour.\n\nDespite the controversy, the New Zealand Rugby Union decided to proceed with the tour. The government of Prime Minister Robert Muldoon was called on to ban it, but decided that commitments under the Gleneagles Agreement did not require the government to prevent the tour, and decided not to interfere due to their public position of \"no politics in sport\". Major protests ensued, aiming to make clear many New Zealanders' opposition to apartheid and, if possible, to stop the matches taking place. This was successful at two games, but also had the effect of creating a law and order issue: whether a group of protesters could be allowed to prevent a lawful game taking place.\n\nThe dispute was similar to that involving Peter Hain in the United Kingdom in the early 1970s, when Hain's Stop the Tour campaign clashed with the more conservative 'Freedom Under Law' movement championed by barrister Francis Bennion. The allegedly excessive police response to the protests also became a focus of controversy. Although the protests were among the most intense in New Zealand's recent history, no deaths or serious injuries resulted.\n\nAfter the tour, no official sporting contact took place between New Zealand and South Africa until the early 1990s, after apartheid had been abolished. The tour has been said to have led to a decline in the popularity of Rugby Union in New Zealand, until the 1987 Rugby World Cup.\n\nThe Springboks and New Zealand's national rugby team, the All Blacks, have a long tradition of intense and friendly sporting rivalry. From the 1940s to the 1960s, the South African apartheid affected team selection for the All Blacks: the selectors passed over Māori players for some All Black tours to South Africa. Opposition to sending race-based teams to South Africa grew throughout the 1950s and 1960s. Prior to the All Blacks' tour of South Africa in 1960, 150,000 New Zealanders signed a petition supporting a policy of \"No Maoris, No Tour\". The tour still happened, and in 1969 Halt All Racist Tours (HART) was formed.\n\nDuring the 1970s public protests and political pressure forced on the New Zealand Rugby Union (NZRFU) the choice of either fielding a team not selected by race, or not touring South Africa: South African rugby authorities continued to select Springbok players by race. As a result, the Norman Kirk Labour Government prevented the Springboks from touring during 1973. In response, the NZRFU protested about the involvement of \"politics in sport\".\n\nIn 1976, the All Blacks toured South Africa with the blessing of the newly elected New Zealand Prime Minister, Robert Muldoon. Twenty-five African nations protested against this by boycotting the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal. In their view the All Black tour gave tacit support to the apartheid regime in South Africa. The 1976 tour contributed to the creation of the Gleneagles Agreement adopted by the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in 1977.\n\nBy the early 1980s the pressure from other countries and from protest groups in New Zealand such as HART reached a head when the NZRU proposed a Springbok tour for 1981. This became a topic of political contention due to the international sports boycott. The Australian Prime Minister, Malcolm Fraser, refused permission for the Springboks' aircraft to refuel in Australia, so the Springboks' flights to and from New Zealand went via Los Angeles and Hawaii.\n\nDespite pressure for the Muldoon government to cancel the tour, permission was granted, and the Springboks arrived in New Zealand on 19 July 1981. Since 1977 Muldoon's government had been a party to the Gleneagles Agreement, in which the countries of the Commonwealth accepted that it was:\nthe urgent duty of each of their Governments vigorously to combat the evil of apartheid by withholding any form of support for, and by taking every practical step to discourage contact or competition by their nationals with sporting organisations, teams or sportsmen from South Africa or from any other country where sports are organised on the basis of race, colour or ethnic origin.\nDespite this, Muldoon argued that New Zealand was a free and democratic country, and that \"politics should stay out of sport.\"\n\nSome rugby supporters echoed the separation of politics and sport. Others argued that if the tour were cancelled, there would be no reporting of the widespread criticism of apartheid in New Zealand in the controlled South African media. Muldoon's critics felt that he allowed the tour in order for his National Party to secure the votes of rural and provincial conservatives in the general election later in the year, which Muldoon won.\n\nThe ensuing public protests polarised New Zealand. While rugby fans filled the football grounds, protest crowds filled the surrounding streets, and on one occasion succeeded in invading the pitch and stopping the game.\n\nTo begin with the anti-tour movement was committed to non-violent civil disobedience, demonstrations and direct action. As protection for the Springboks, the police created two special riot squads, the Red and Blue Squads. These police were, controversially, the first in New Zealand to be issued with visored riot helmets and long batons (more commonly the side-handle baton). Some protesters were intimidated and interpreted this initial police response as overkill and heavy-handed tactics. After early disruptions, police began to require that all spectators assemble in sports grounds at least an hour before kick-off.\n\nAt Gisborne on 22 July, protesters managed to break through a fence, but quick action by spectators and ground security prevented the game being disrupted. Some protesters were injured by police batons.\n\nAt Rugby Park, Hamilton (the site of today's Waikato Stadium), on 25 July, about 350 protesters invaded the pitch after pulling down a fence. The police arrested about 50 of them over a period of an hour, but were concerned that they could not control the rugby crowd, who were throwing bottles and other objects at the protesters. Following reports that a stolen light plane (piloted by Pat McQuarrie) was approaching the stadium, police cancelled the match. The protesters were ushered from the ground and were advised by protest marshals to remove any anti-tour insignia from their attire, with enraged rugby spectators lashing out at them. Gangs of rugby supporters waited outside Hamilton police station for arrested protesters to be processed and released, and assaulted some protesters making their way into Victoria Street.\n\nThe aftermath of the Hamilton game, followed by the bloody batoning of marchers in Wellington's Molesworth Street in the following week, in which police batoned bare-headed protesters, led to the radicalisation of the protest movement. Because of this, many protesters began to wear motorcycle or bicycle helmets to protect themselves from batons and head injury.\n\nThe authorities strengthened security at public facilities after protesters disrupted telecommunications by damaging a waveguide on a microwave repeater, disrupting telephone and data services, though TV transmissions continued as they were carried by a separate waveguide on the tower. Army engineers were deployed, and the remaining grounds were surrounded with razor wire and shipping container barricades to decrease the chances of another pitch invasion. At Eden Park, an emergency escape route was constructed from the visitors' changing rooms for use if the stadium was overrun by protestors. Crowds of anti-tour protestors stood outside as the police were overwhelmed but the hundreds of police still managed to prevent the protestors from entering the stadium.\n\nAt Lancaster Park, Christchurch, on 15 August, some protesters managed to break through a security cordon and a number invaded the pitch. They were quickly removed and forcibly ejected from the stadium by security staff and spectators. A large demonstration managed to occupy the street adjacent to the ground and confront the riot police. Spectators were kept in the ground until the protesters dispersed.\n\nA low-flying Cessna 172 piloted by Marx Jones and Grant Cole disrupted the final test at Eden Park, Auckland, on 12 September by dropping flour-bombs on the pitch. In spite of the bombing, the game continued. \"Patches\" of criminal gangs, such as traditional rivals Black Power and the Mongrel Mob, were also evident (The Black Power were Muldoon supporters). Footage was shown of the \"Clowns Incident\", where police were shown beating unarmed clowns with batons.\n\nSome of the protest had the dual purpose of linking racial discrimination against Māori in New Zealand to apartheid in South Africa. Some of the protesters, particularly young Māori, felt frustrated by the image of New Zealand as a paradise for racial unity. Many opponents of racism in New Zealand in the early 1980s saw it as useful to use the protests against South Africa as a vehicle for wider social action. However, some Maori supported the tour and attended games.\n\nWith the American leg of the tour following directly after the events of New Zealand, further protests and clashes with police were expected. Threats of riots caused city officials in Los Angeles, Chicago, New York City and Rochester to withdraw their previous authorisation for the Springboks to play in their cities.\n\nThe Springboks' match against the Midwest All Stars team had originally been intended to be played in Chicago. Following the anti-apartheid protests, it was secretly rescheduled to the mid morning of Saturday 19 September at Roosevelt Park in Racine, Wisconsin. The clandestine strategy seemingly worked as around 500 spectators gathered to watch the match. Late in game, however, a small number of protestors arrived to disrupt proceedings and two were arrested after a brief altercation broke out on the field.\n\nThe cancelled New York City match against the Eastern All Stars was moved upstate to Albany. The long serving Mayor of Albany, Erastus Corning, maintained that there was a right of peaceful assembly to \"publicly espouse an unpopular cause,\" despite his own stated view that \"I abhor everything about apartheid\".\n\nGovernor Hugh Carey argued that the event should be barred as the anti-apartheid demonstrators presented an \"imminent danger of riot\", but a Federal court ruling allowing the game to be played was upheld in the United States Court of Appeals. A further appeal to Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall was also overruled on the grounds of free speech.\n\nThe match went ahead with around a thousand demonstrators (including Pete Seeger) corralled 100 yards away from the field of play, which was surrounded by the police. No violence occurred at the game but a pipe bomb was set off in the early morning outside the headquarters of the Eastern Rugby Union resulting in damage to the building estimated at $50,000. No one was injured.\n\nThe final match of the tour, against the United States national team, took place in secret at Glenville in upstate New York. The thirty spectators recorded at the match is the lowest ever attendance for an international rugby match.\n\nThe Muldoon government was re-elected in the 1981 election losing three seats to leave it with a majority of one.\n\nThe NZRU constitution contained much high-minded wording about promoting the image of rugby and New Zealand, and generally being a benefit to society. In 1985 the NZRU proposed an All Black tour of South Africa. Two lawyers successfully sued it, claiming such a tour would breach its constitution. A High Court injunction by Justice Casey stopped the tour. The All Blacks did not tour South Africa until after the fall of the apartheid régime (1990–1994), although after the 1985 tour was cancelled an unofficial tour took place in 1986 by a team that included 28 out of the 30 All Blacks selected for the 1985 tour, known as the New Zealand Cavaliers but often advertised in South Africa as the All Blacks or depicted with the Silver Fern.\n\nThe role of the police also became more controversial as a result of the tour.\n\nThe All Blacks won the 1987 Rugby World Cup and rugby union was once again the dominant sport – in both spectator and participant numbers – in New Zealand.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52205559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52205559", "title": "American Visions: The Epic History of Art in America", "text": "American Visions: The Epic History of Art in America\n\nAmerican Visions: The Epic History of Art in America is a 1997 book by art critic Robert Hughes.\n\n\"BookList\" called \"American Visions\" a \"sensational history of American art.\" and wrote \"The contrast between the influence of nature and of the city on American art is the fulcrum of Hughes' entire narrative ...\" and \"\" stated \"The book bears the stamp of the author's aesthetic sensibilities (which value works of art for their technical competence as well as visual and intellectual qualities), his critical acuity, and his accomplished writing.\" \n\n\"Kirkus Reviews\" gave a starred review and described it as an \"eminently readable handbook on American art.\", writing \"His readings of three centuries of both art works and trends are lively, detailed, and persuasive (though perhaps a bit too harsh regarding recent art), and his ultimately pessimistic take is expressed with great clarity. A meaty and illuminating excavation, full of vigor and punch...\" Publishers Weekly noted \"this is no bland, dumbed-down survey intended to flatter its subject or its audience. Hughes writes with an aesthete's disdain for political posturing, a traditionalist's belief in the importance of technical skills (painters are frequently taken to task for their shoddy draftsmanship) and a pragmatist's contempt for mystagogical bunk.\", found \"his account of the contemporary scene is disappointingly brief.\" and concluded \"This slashingly witty, briskly paced, ferociously opinionated tour of the American visual landscape is a book that even the most un-likeminded readers will love to hate.\"\n\nA \"New York Times\" review calls it a \"witty and impassioned history of American art from its beginnings to the present day\", \"beautiful and essential\", notes that \"Mr. Hughes fortunately remains the critic throughout his historical canvassing, making distinctions and judgments without taking sides.\" and concludes \"With it, Mr. Hughes has made American art safe for the receptive alien deep inside us all.\" \"American Visions\" has also been reviewed by the \"London Review of Books\", \"The Journal of American History\", and \"The New York Review of Books\".\n"}
{"id": "25489423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25489423", "title": "Arts Initiative KNIE", "text": "Arts Initiative KNIE\n\nArts Initiative KNIE was founded as an initiative for contemporary art in 1995 in Oberndorf bei Salzburg. It is the origin of the stolperstein project in Braunau am Inn District. \nInfluenced by the concept of intervention, the Arts Initiative KNIE sees itself as an intermediary and a critical voice. The Arts Initiative KNIE installed art in the public sphere, where the relationship to its location is unmistakable. The \"Grenzpavillion\" (\"Border Pavilion\"), located on the Salzachknie riverbend between Laufen and Oberndorf, has ideal qualifications. The pavilion is a large cube, roughly 8 meters a side, with doors, windows and a weatherproof roof. Over time, it became an \"art station\", which from 1995 to 2002 served primarily as a venue for symposia.\n\nConcepts such as borders, river, bridge, relationship history, technology, disaster, nature and art are transposed by invited artists into sensory images to experience. National and international artists have created installations, performance evenings, onomatopoeia and paintings.\n\nIn 1997, Gunter Demnig's Project Stolperstein nearly ended Initiative KNIE. On February 2, 2002, German artists Julius Deutschbauer and Gerhard Spring announced the end of the arts initiative. In 2006, Andreas Maislinger invited Gunter Demnig back to Braunau am Inn to install 13 more \"stolpersteine\" in honor of Nazi victims.\n"}
{"id": "1147337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1147337", "title": "Atlantic Revolutions", "text": "Atlantic Revolutions\n\nThe Atlantic Revolutions were a revolutionary wave in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. It was associated with the Atlantic World during the era from the 1770s to the 1820s.\n\nIt took place in both the Americas and Europe, including the United States (1775–1783), France and French-controlled Europe (1789–1814), Haiti (1791–1804), Ireland (1798) and Spanish America (1810–1825). There were smaller upheavals in Switzerland, Russia, and Brazil. The revolutionaries in each country knew of the others and to some degree were inspired by or emulated them.\n\nIndependence movements in the New World began with the American Revolution, 1775–1783, in which France, the Netherlands and Spain assisted the new United States of America as it secured independence from Britain. In the 1790s the Haitian Revolution broke out. With Spain tied down in European wars, the mainland Spanish colonies secured independence around 1820.\n\nIn long-term perspective, the revolutions were mostly successful. They spread widely the ideals of liberalism, republicanism, the overthrow of aristocracies, kings and established churches. They emphasized the universal ideals of the Enlightenment, such as the equality of all men, including equal justice under law by disinterested courts as opposed to particular justice handed down at the whim of a local noble. They showed that the modern notion of revolution, of starting fresh with a radically new government, could actually work in practice. Revolutionary mentalities were born and continue to flourish to the present day.\n\nThe common Atlantic theme breaks down to some extent from reading the works of Edmund Burke. Burke firstly supported the American colonists in 1774 in \"On American Taxation\", and took the view that their property and other rights were being infringed by the crown without their consent. In apparent contrast, Burke distinguished and deplored the process of the French revolution in \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\" (1790), as in this case property, customary and religious rights were being removed summarily by the revolutionaries and not by the crown. In both cases he was following Montesquieu's theory that the right to own property is an essential element of personal freedom.\n\n\nVarious connecting threads among these varied uprisings include a concern for the \"Rights of Man\" and freedom of the individual; an idea (often predicated on John Locke or Jean-Jacques Rousseau) of popular sovereignty; belief in a \"social contract\", which in turn was often codified in written constitutions; a certain complex of religious convictions often associated with deism or Voltairean agnosticism, and characterized by veneration of reason; abhorrence of feudalism and often of monarchy itself. The Atlantic Revolutions also had many shared symbols, including the name \"Patriot\" used by so many revolutionary groups; the slogan of \"Liberty\"; the liberty cap; Lady Liberty or Marianne; the tree of liberty or liberty pole, and so on.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8498325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8498325", "title": "Basement waterproofing", "text": "Basement waterproofing\n\nBasement waterproofing involves techniques and materials used to prevent water from penetrating the basement of a house or a building. Waterproofing a basement that is below ground level can require the application of sealant materials, the installation of drains and sump pumps, and more.\n\nWaterproofing is usually required by building codes for structures that are built at or below ground level. Waterproofing and drainage considerations are especially important in cases where ground water is likely to build up in the soil or where there is a high water table.\n\nWater in the soil causes hydrostatic pressure to be exerted underneath basement floors and walls. This hydrostatic pressure can force water in through cracks, which can cause major structural damage as well as mold, decay, and other moisture-related problems.\n\nSeveral measures exist to prevent water from penetrating a basement foundation or to divert water that has penetrated a foundation:\n\nIn poured concrete foundations, cracks and pipe penetrations are the most common entry points for seepage. These openings can be sealed from the interior. Epoxies, which are strong adhesives, or urethanes can be pressure injected into the openings, thus penetrating the foundation through to the exterior and cutting off the path of the seepage.\n\nIn masonry foundations, interior sealers will not provide permanent protection from water infiltration where hydrostatic pressure is present. However, interior sealers are good for preventing high atmospheric humidity inside the basement from absorbing into the porous masonry and causing spalling. Spalling is a condition where constant high humidity or moisture breaks down masonry surfaces, causing deterioration and shedding of the concrete surfaces.\n\nAlthough interior water drainage is not technically waterproofing, it is a widely accepted technique in mitigating basement water and is generally referred to as a basement waterproofing solution. Many interior drainage systems are patented and recognized by BOCA (Building Officials and Code Administrators) as being effective in controlling basement water.\n\nA common system for draining water that has penetrated a basement involves creating a channel around the perimeter of the basement alongside the foundation footers. A French drain, PVC pipe, or a patented drainage system is installed in the newly-made channel. The installed drain is covered with new cement.\n\nThe drainage system collects any water entering the basement and drains it to an internally placed sump pump system, which will then pump the water out of the basement. Wall conduits (such as dimple boards or other membranes) are fastened to the foundation wall and extend over the new drainage to guide any moisture down into the system.\n\nInterior basement waterproofing using coatings is effective where condensation is the main source of wetness. It is also effective if the problem has minor dampness. Usually, interior waterproofing will not stop major leaks.\n\nWaterproofing a structure from the exterior is the only method the IBC (International Building Code) recognizes as adequate to prevent structural damage caused by water intrusion.\n\nWaterproofing an existing basement begins with excavating to the bottom sides of the footings. Once excavated, the walls are then power washed and allowed to dry. The dry walls are sealed with a waterproofing membrane, and new drainage tiles (weeping tiles) are placed at the side of the footing.\n\nOver the past ten years, polymer-based waterproofing products have been developed. Polymer-based products last for the lifetime of the building and are not affected by soil pH. Polymer-based waterproofing materials can be sprayed directly onto a wall, are very fast curing, and are semi-flexible, allowing for some movement of the substrate.\n\nWater seepage in basement and crawl spaces usually occurs over long periods of time and can be caused by numerous factors.\n\nSigns that water is seeping into a basement or crawlspace often take years to develop and may not be easily visible. Over time, multiple signs of damage may become evident and could lead to structural failure.\n\nFoundation crack injections are used when poured concrete foundations crack either from settlement or the expansion and contraction of the concrete. Epoxy crack injections are typically used for structural purposes while hydrophobic or hydrophilic polyurethane injections are used to seal cracks to prevent penetration of moisture or water. Contract is both strong and inexpensive, making this an ideal product in construction. However concrete is not waterproof.\n"}
{"id": "1285384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1285384", "title": "Bukhara magazine", "text": "Bukhara magazine\n\nBukhara magazine is a Persian-language magazine published in Tehran and edited by Ali Dehbashi. The magazine began publication in 1998 and is published on a monthly basis. The content consists of scholarly articles on Persian history, art, philosophy, literature, culture, and Iranology. The magazine has published several special issues on great world authors such as Rabindranath Tagore, Günter Grass, Osip Mandelstam, Umberto Eco and Virginia Woolf.\n\nAli Dehbashi was the editor of the monthly magazine \"KELK\", a prominent literary publication on Iranian Studies with a considerable number of readers, mostly Iranian university professors and world Iranologists. Ninety-four issues of the magazine comprising more than twenty thousand pages have been published, with contributions from notables such as Shafiee Kadkani, Abdolhossein Zarrinkoob, Ahmad Mahdavi Damghani, Saeed Hamidian, Djalal Khaleghi Motlagh, Ali Ravaghi, Fereydoon Moshiri, Ghamar Aryan, Ezatollah Fouldvand, Bahram Beyzai and others. \n\n\"Bukhara\"′s official representative/distributor in North America is the Toronto-based weekly publication \"Salam Toronto\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14752472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14752472", "title": "Chickcharney", "text": "Chickcharney\n\nThe chickcharney (also known as the chickcharnie or chickcharnee) is a legendary creature in the folklore of Andros Island in the Bahama Islands. It is said to live in the forests, and furry, feathered and about tall, with an ugly appearance resembling an owl. In common legend, if a traveler meets a chickcharney and treats it well, he or she will be rewarded with good luck, while treating a chickcharney badly will result in bad luck and hard times. Sightings have continued into the present. It is said that the birds make their nest by bringing several pine trees together and making their nest in the middle. Several of these tree formations have been sighted.\n\nIt has been theorized by scholars that chickcharney legends may have been inspired by persistent populations of \"Tyto pollens\", a tall, flightless species of barn-owl native to Andros. It was rumored to survive until the 16th century, until settlers felled the eastern Andros forests.\n\n"}
{"id": "1756707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1756707", "title": "Chinese patriarchy", "text": "Chinese patriarchy\n\nChinese patriarchy refers to the history and prevalence of male dominance in Chinese society and culture, although patriarchy is not exclusive to Chinese culture and exists all over the world.\n\nMencius outlined the three subordinations. A woman was to be subordinate to her father in youth, her husband in maturity, and her son in old age. Familial relationships are prefixed, and family lifestyles and behaviors are constrained by social norms. \n\nAnother one of these famous quotes is also related to the patriarchy found in Athens. \"Men are free to roam outside, but the woman must stay inside.\"\n\nA cliché of classical texts, which is repeated throughout the tradition, is the familiar notion that men govern the outer world, while women govern the home.\nIn the Han dynasty, the female historian Ban Zhao wrote the \"Lessons for Women\", advice on how women should behave. She outlines the four virtues women must abide by: proper virtue, proper speech, proper countenance, proper merit. The \"three subordinations and the four virtues\" is a common four-character phrase throughout the imperial period.\n\nAs for the historical development of Chinese patriarchy, women's status was highest in the Tang dynasty, when women played sports (polo) and were generally freer in fashion and conduct. Between the Tang and Song dynasties, a fad for little feet arose, and from the Song dynasty onwards foot binding became more and more common for the elite. In the Ming dynasty, a tradition of virtuous widowhood developed. Widows, even if widowed at a young age, would be expected not to remarry. Their virtuous names might be displayed on the arch at the entrance of the village.\n\nConfucian conceptions of \"respect for the elders\" has been focused on preserving the traditional role of the father as the primary leader and decision maker of the family. In the hierarchy of traditional Chinese cultural family life, the father and sons take prominence over the mother and daughters.\n\nFeatures of patriarchy in 20th and 21st century China are a combination of contemporary problems found even in the West and traditional Chinese issues.\n\nMen hold most of the major positions of power within the country, especially in the political and military spheres. However, with the decline of traditional practices through the 20th century, women have come to enjoy virtually equal economic power. This is especially true in the cities, where the social stigma of being a working woman is virtually nonexistent, although skepticism of unmarried, career-minded women is increasing. Although both genders face strong pressure to be married, women who remain unmarried past the age of 25 are shamed by state media with the label leftover women.\n\nIn addition, foot binding and arranged marriages have been virtually eradicated.\n\nThere is also the issue of forced abortions in China, especially for sex selection purposes; authorities have been accused of giving the women virtually no control over their bodies in this area.\n\nMencius outlined the three subordinations. A woman was to be subordinate to her father in youth, her husband in maturity, and her son in old age.[1] Familial relationships are prefixed, and family lifestyles and behaviors are constrained by social norms. [2]\n\nAnother one of these famous quotes is also related to the patriarchy found in Athens. \"Men are free to roam outside, but the woman must stay inside.\"\n\nA cliché of classical texts, which is repeated throughout the tradition, is the familiar notion that men govern the outer world, while women govern the home. In the Han dynasty, the female historian Ban Zhao wrote the Lessons for Women, advice on how women should behave. She outlines the four virtues women must abide by: proper virtue, proper speech, proper countenance, proper merit. The \"three subordinations and the four virtues\" is a common four-character phrase throughout the imperial period.\n\nAs for the historical development of Chinese patriarchy, women's status was highest in the Tang dynasty, when women played sports (polo) and were generally freer in fashion and conduct. Between the Tang and Song dynasties, a fad for little feet arose, and from the Song dynasty onwards foot binding became more and more common for the elite. In the Ming dynasty, a tradition of virtuous widowhood developed. Widows, even if widowed at a young age, would be expected not to remarry. Their virtuous names might be displayed on the arch at the entrance of the village.\n\nConfucian conceptions of \"respect for the elders\" has been focused on preserving the traditional role of the father as the primary leader and decision maker of the family. In the hierarchy of traditional Chinese cultural family life, the father and sons take prominence over the mother and daughters.\n\nSelection of children by gender:\n"}
{"id": "143215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143215", "title": "Coaching", "text": "Coaching\n\nCoaching is a form of development in which a person called a \"coach\" supports a learner or client in achieving a specific personal or professional goal by providing training and guidance. The learner is sometimes called a \"coachee\". Occasionally, \"coaching\" may mean an informal relationship between two people, of whom one has more experience and expertise than the other and offers advice and guidance as the latter learns; but coaching differs from mentoring in focusing on specific tasks or objectives, as opposed to more general goals or overall development.\n\nThe first use of the term \"coach\" in connection with an instructor or trainer arose around 1830 in Oxford University slang for a tutor who \"carried\" a student through an exam. The word \"coaching\" thus identified a process used to transport people from where they are to where they want to be. The first use of the term in relation to sports came in 1861. Historically the development of coaching has been influenced by many fields of activity, including adult education, the Human Potential Movement, large-group awareness training (LGAT) groups such as \"est\", leadership studies, personal development, and psychology.\n\nProfessional coaching uses a range of communication skills (such as targeted restatements, listening, questioning, clarifying etc.) to help clients shift their perspectives and thereby discover different approaches to achieve their goals. These skills can be used in almost all types of coaching. In this sense, coaching is a form of \"meta-profession\" that can apply to supporting clients in any human endeavor, ranging from their concerns in health, personal, professional, sport, social, family, political, spiritual dimensions, etc. There may be some overlap between certain types of coaching activities. Coaching approaches are also influenced by cultural differences.\n\nThe concept of ADHD coaching was first introduced in 1994 by psychiatrists Edward M. Hallowell and John J. Ratey in their book \"Driven to Distraction\". ADHD coaching is a specialized type of life coaching that uses specific techniques designed to assist individuals with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. The goal of ADHD coaching is to mitigate the effects of executive function deficit, which is a typical impairment for people with ADHD. Coaches work with clients to help them better manage time, organize, set goals and complete projects. In addition to helping clients understand the impact ADHD has had on their lives, coaches can help clients develop \"work-around\" strategies to deal with specific challenges, and determine and use individual strengths. Coaches also help clients get a better grasp of what reasonable expectations are for them as individuals, since people with ADHD \"brain wiring\" often seem to need external mirrors for accurate self-awareness about their potential despite their impairment.\n\nUnlike psychologists or psychotherapists, ADHD coaches do not provide any therapy or treatment: their focus is only on daily functioning and behaviour aspects of the disorder. The ultimate goal of ADHD coaching is to help clients develop an \"inner coach\", a set of self-regulation and reflective planning skills to deal with daily life challenges. A 2010 study from Wayne State University evaluated the effectiveness of ADHD coaching on 110 students with ADHD. The research team concluded that the coaching \"was highly effective in helping students improve executive functioning and related skills as measured by the Learning and Study Strategies Inventory (LASSI).\" Yet, not every ADHD person needs a coach and not everyone can benefit from using a coach.\n\nBusiness coaching is a type of human resource development for business leaders. It provides positive support, feedback and advice on an individual or group basis to improve personal effectiveness in the business setting, many a time focusing on behavioural changes through psychometrics or 360-degree feedback. Business coaching is also called executive coaching, corporate coaching or leadership coaching. Coaches help their clients advance towards specific professional goals. These include career transition, interpersonal and professional communication, performance management, organizational effectiveness, managing career and personal changes, developing executive presence, enhancing strategic thinking, dealing effectively with conflict, and building an effective team within an organization. An industrial organizational psychologist is one example of executive coach. Business coaching is not restricted to external experts or providers. Many organizations expect their senior leaders and middle managers to coach their team members to reach higher levels of performance, increased job satisfaction, personal growth, and career development. Research studies suggest that executive coaching has a positive impact on workplace performance with some differences in the impact of internal and external coaches.\n\nIn some countries, there is no certification or licensing required to be a business or executive coach, and membership of a coaching organization is optional. Further, standards and methods of training coaches can vary widely between coaching organizations. Many business coaches refer to themselves as consultants, a broader business relationship than one which exclusively involves coaching.\n\nCareer coaching focuses on work and career and is similar to career counseling. Career coaching is not to be confused with life coaching, which concentrates on personal development. Another common term for a career coach is career guide.\n\nA Christian coach is not a pastor or counselor (although the coach may also be qualified in those disciplines), but rather someone who has been professionally trained to address specific coaching goals from a distinctively Christian or biblical perspective.\n\nCo-coaching is a structured practice of coaching between peers with the goal of learning improved coaching techniques.\n\nDating coaches offer coaching and related products and services to improve their clients' success in dating and relationships.\n\nFinancial coaching is a relatively new form of coaching that focuses on helping clients overcome their struggle to attain specific financial goals and aspirations they have set for themselves. Financial coaching is a one-on-one relationship in which the coach works to provide encouragement and support aimed at facilitating attainment of the client's financial plans. A \"financial coach\", also called \"money coach\", typically focuses on helping clients to restructure and reduce debt, reduce spending, develop saving habits, and develop financial discipline. In contrast, the term \"financial adviser\" refers to a wider range of professionals who typically provide clients with financial products and services. Although early research links financial coaching to improvements in client outcomes, much more rigorous analysis is necessary before any causal linkages can be established.\n\nHealth coaching is becoming recognized as a new way to help individuals \"manage\" their illnesses and conditions, especially those of a chronic nature. The coach will use special techniques, personal experience, expertise and encouragement to assist the coachee in bringing his/her behavioral changes about, while aiming for lowered health risks and decreased healthcare costs. The National Society of Health Coaches (NSHC) has differentiated the term \"health coach\" from \"wellness coach\". According to the NSHC, health coaches are qualified \"to guide those with acute or chronic conditions and/or moderate to high health risk\", and wellness coaches provide guidance and inspiration \"to otherwise 'healthy' individuals who desire to maintain or improve their overall general health status\".\n\nHomework coaching focuses on equipping a student with the study skills required to succeed academically. This approach is different from regular tutoring which typically seeks to improve a student's performance in a specific subject.\n\nCoaching in education is seen as a useful intervention to support students, faculty and administrators in educational organizations. For students, opportunities for coaching include collaborating with fellow students to improve grades and skills, both academic and social; for teachers and administrators, coaching can help with transitions into new roles.\n\nLife coaching is the process of helping people identify and achieve personal goals through developing skills and attitudes that lead to self-empowerment. Although life coaches may have studied counseling psychology or related subjects, a life coach does not act as a therapist, counselor, or health care provider, and psychological intervention lies outside the scope of life coaching. \n\nRelationship coaching is the application of coaching to personal and business relationships.\n\nIn sports, a coach is an individual that provides supervision and training to the sports team or individual players. Sports coaches are involved in administration, athletic training, competition coaching, and representation of the team and the players.\n\nSince the mid-1990s, coaching professional associations such as the Association for Coaching (AC), the European Mentoring and Coaching Council (EMCC), the International Association of Coaching (IAC), and the International Coach Federation (ICF) have worked towards developing training standards. Psychologist Jonathan Passmore noted in 2016:\n\nWhile coaching has become a recognized intervention, sadly there are still no standards or licensing arrangements which are widely recognized. Professional bodies have continued to develop their own standards, but the lack of regulation means anyone can call themselves a coach. [...] Whether coaching is a profession which requires regulation, or is professional and requires standards, remains a matter of debate.\n\nOne of the challenges in the field of coaching is upholding levels of professionalism, standards and ethics. To this end, coaching bodies and organizations have codes of ethics and member standards. However, because these bodies are not regulated, and because coaches do not need to belong to such a body, ethics and standards are variable in the field. In February 2016, the AC and the EMCC launched a \"Global Code of Ethics\" for the entire industry; individuals, associations, and organizations are invited to become signatories to it.\n\nWith the growing popularity of coaching, many colleges and universities now offer coach training programs that are accredited by a professional association. Some courses offer a life coach certificate after just a few days of training, but such courses, if they are accredited at all, are considered \"à la carte\" training programs, \"which may or may not offer start to finish coach training,\" according to the ICF. Some \"all-inclusive\" training programs accredited by the ICF require a minimum of 125 student contact hours, 10 hours of mentor coaching and a performance evaluation process. This is very little training in comparison to the training requirements of some other helping professions: for example, licensure as a counseling psychologist in the State of California requires 3,000 hours of supervised professional experience. However, the ICF, for example, offers a \"Master Certified Coach\" credential that requires demonstration of \"2,500 hours (2,250 paid) of coaching experience with at least 35 clients\" and a \"Professional Certified Coach\" credential with fewer requirements. Other professional bodies similarly offer entry-level, intermediate, and advanced coach accreditation options. Some coaches are both certified coaches and licensed counseling psychologists, integrating coaching and counseling.\n\nCritics see life coaching as akin to psychotherapy but without the legal restrictions and state regulation of psychologists. There are no state regulation/licensing requirements for coaches. Due to lack of regulation, people who have no formal training or certification can legally call themselves life or wellness coaches.\n"}
{"id": "39327850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39327850", "title": "Coursepacks", "text": "Coursepacks\n\nCoursepacks are printed collections of readings assembled by teachers to supplement college and university courses.\n\nThe practice of assembling coursepacks for students developed as a systematization of the practice of disseminating \"handouts\" for readings in class. This practice operated in parallel to the practice of libraries providing \"reserves\"—material pulled off shelves and \"reserved\" for use at the library, to ensure access for students in a class. Some teachers used coursepacks to supplement textbooks; others used them basically to create their own ad hoc textbooks.\n\nOver time, teachers began assembling their handouts at the beginning of the course, or having school administrators assemble them and charge students enough fees to recoup costs. As copy shops such as \"Kinko's\" became a thriving business in the late 1970s and early 1980s, they developed a market for making these coursepacks, offering different sorts of bindings, and so forth. Once the market became commercialized, licensing entities such as CCC (the \"Copyright Clearance Center\") in the United States became involved, negotiating licensing and \"clearance\" fees for use of materials in coursepacks. Materials that could not be licensed could not be included in coursepacks. Primarily as a result of escalating license fees, coursepacks have become a significant expense for students, along with textbooks.\n\nCoursepacks themselves operated primarily as an efficient service for providing print copies of material. As information has become increasingly available electronically, academic libraries have begun a transition to electronic reserves, making materials they have already acquired available for students registered in particular classes. Publishers, once critics of coursepack providers, have been critical of ereserves, arguing that libraries' provision of ereserves will supplant the commercial coursepack services.\n\nIn the United States, the question of classroom handouts received significant attention in the lobbying and negotiation leading up to the 1976 Copyright Act. The statute as passed included a legislative codification of fair use at 17 U.S.C. 107 which specifically described handouts (\"multiple copies for classroom use\") as a fair use. [T]he fair use of a copyrighted work, including such use by reproduction in copies ... for purposes such as ... teaching (including multiple copies for classroom use) ... is not an infringement of copyright.\" However, the transition from classroom handouts to coursepacks led to a shift in how these materials were treated under US copyright law. In a series of \"coursepack cases\", US courts found that commercial services that profited from developing coursepacks were not protected by fair use. \"See\" \"Princeton University Press v. Michigan Document Services\" (1996), \"Basic Books v. Kinko's Graphics\" (1991); 1982 litigation against New York University.\n\nPublishers and rights clearance agencies have sued universities in several other countries (Canada, New Zealand, India), in order to require fees for coursepacks or library ereserves.\n\n"}
{"id": "1839443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839443", "title": "Disposal of human corpses", "text": "Disposal of human corpses\n\nDisposal of human corpses is the practice and process of dealing with the remains of a deceased human being. Like most animals, when humans die, their bodies start to decompose, emitting a foul odor and attracting scavengers and decomposers. For these reasons, corpses must be disposed of properly. The problem of body disposal consists of two parts: disposal of the soft tissues, which will rapidly decompose, and of the skeleton, which will remain intact for thousands of years under certain conditions.\n\nSeveral methods for disposal are practiced. In many cases, the manner of disposal is dominated by spiritual concerns and a desire to show respect for the dead, and may be highly ritualized. This event may be part of a larger funeral ritual. In other circumstances, such as war or natural disaster, practical concerns may be forefront. Many religions as well as legal jurisdictions have set rules regarding the disposal of corpses. Since the experience of death is universal to all humans, practices regarding corpse disposal are a part of every culture. Ancient methods of disposing of dead bodies include cremation practised by the Romans, Greeks, and Hindus; burial practised by the Jews, Christians, and Muslims; mummification practised by the Ancient Egyptians; and the sky burial and a similar method of disposal called Towers of Silence practiced by Tibetan Buddhists and Zoroastrians.\n\nThe most common methods of disposal are:\n\n\nNew methods in development include promession (freeze-drying), and the mushroom death suit by Infinity Burial Project.\n\nIn some cases an attempt is made to preserve some or all of a body. These methods include:\n\nHuman remains of archaeological or medical interest are often kept in museums and private collections. This practice is controversial (See NAGPRA). In the cases of Native Americans in the United States, possession of remains and related objects is regulated by the NAGPRA Act of 1990.\n\nDifferent religions and cultures have various funeral rites that accompany the disposal of a body. Some require that all parts of the body are buried together. If an autopsy has occurred, removed parts of the body are sewn back into the body so that they may be buried with the rest of the corpse.\n\nWhen it is not possible for a body to be disposed of promptly, it is generally stored at a morgue. Where this is not possible, such as on a battlefield, body bags are used. In the Western world, embalming of the body is a standard part of preparation. This is intended to temporarily preserve the corpse throughout the funeral process.\n\nMany jurisdictions have enacted regulations relating to the disposal of human bodies. Although it may be entirely legal to bury a deceased family member, the law may restrict the locations in which this activity is allowed, in some cases expressly limiting burials to property controlled by specific, licensed institutions. Furthermore, in many places, failure to properly dispose of a body is a crime. In some places, it is also a crime to fail to report a death, and to fail to report the disposal of the body.\n\nCertain conditions such as necrosis can cause parts of the body such as limbs or internal organs to die without causing the death of the individual. In such cases the body parts are usually not given a funeral. Surgical removal of dead tissue is usually necessary to prevent gangrenous infection. Surgically removed body parts are typically disposed of as medical waste, unless they need to be preserved for cultural reasons, as described above.\n\nConversely, donated organs or tissue may live on long after the death of an individual.\n\nIn some cases, a body is disposed of in such a way as to prevent, hinder, or delay discovery of the body, to prevent identification of the body, or to prevent autopsy. In such cases, the deceased is considered a missing person as long as a body is not identified, unless death is so likely that the person is declared legally dead.\nThis often occurs as part of a murder or voluntary manslaughter. In other cases, an individual who did not intend to cause death may still feel guilt about a death (e.g. by involuntary manslaughter or an accident) and may attempt to prevent discovery of the body. This can exacerbate any legal consequences associated with the death.\nOther motives for concealing death or the cause of death include insurance fraud or the desire to collect the pension of the deceased. An individual may commit suicide in such a way as to obscure the cause of death, allowing beneficiaries of a life insurance policy to collect on the policy.\n\nCriminal methods encountered in fiction and actual cases include:\n\nDisposal of this type happens for various reasons, including the main difference between a burial at sea and a burial on land: the difficulty in recovering the body. Sometimes this difference is desired to dispose of bodies outside of the law.\n\nThere may be a number of reasons for this kind of crime. One common reason for this behavior is to dispose of the evidence. The body may be the victim of a homicide, as for example murder or manslaughter. In some cases, the victim may even be still alive and drowning during the process. A live victim is usually restrained to reduce the likelihood of the victim freeing themselves or fighting back, and the body is often weighted to ensure the sinking of the body. The Mafia is infamous for disposing of victims in oceans or lakes with their feet cast in a concrete block. Other variants tie concrete blocks or other heavy objects to the victim. The \"Chicago-style\" method involves wrapping heavy chains around the victim. In Venice, barrels filled with a human body and concrete are occasionally found in the canals. It is difficult to determine if murder victims buried in a swamp are buried in water or in earth. Often, the body is also cut up to reduce the likelihood of reappearing.\n\nIn other cases, the victim may have died from an accident, and another involved party tries to destroy evidence of the accident. There are also cases where a stillborn infant is buried to dispose of evidence of infidelity, or problems with fertility, or the shame associated with unwed parenthood in many cultures.\n\nWhile a corpse properly buried at sea is unlikely to reappear, many criminals are unable to ensure the permanent disposals of a body, and evidence of the body may reappear. This is rarely as spectacular as the freshly caught shark in the Sydney Coogee Aquarium that vomited up a surgically separated human arm, leading to a murder investigation. That victim was determined to be James Smith, but the three murder suspects were acquitted.\n\nMany criminals dispose of bodies in a river, hoping that the body is carried away. However, this method will most likely lead to a quick detection of the body, because the body gets entangled at the side of the river, or stopped at a dam, or is simply seen floating by others. A disposal in large lakes or oceans is more likely to hide the body, but a decomposing body can develop a strong positive buoyancy due to the decomposing gases being trapped underneath the skin. This may bring the body up to the surface, or at least increase the movement across the ocean floor due to wave actions. Many bodies have washed up at the shore. Bodies have also been discovered in the nets or lines of fishermen, and occasionally, bodies are also discovered by divers.\n\nVery cold water with little oxygen may even preserve bodies, allowing for an easier identification, as for example Margaret Hogg, the \"Wasdale Lady in the Lake\" in Wast Water lake in the Wasdale area (see National Trust Properties in England). She was found after 8 years, with her body preserved like wax.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41204085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41204085", "title": "Dorothy Wyatt", "text": "Dorothy Wyatt\n\nDorothy Mary Wyatt, née Fanning (1925 - 2001) was a Canadian politician, who served as mayor of St. John's, Newfoundland from 1973 to 1981. She was the city's first female mayor.\n\nWyatt first worked as a secretary, meeting her husband Donald Wyatt while working for American Overseas Airlines in Gander. She later returned to Memorial University of Newfoundland to study nursing.\n\nWyatt first won election to St. John's City Council in 1969 as the city's first female councilor. She ran for the mayoralty in 1973, winning the election and serving two terms in office. Her term as mayor was marked by accomplishments including the city's hosting of the Canada Summer Games in 1977, a shift from rental-value to capital-value municipal tax assessment, the adoption of a ward system for city council elections, and the construction of many of the city's modern office buildings.\n\nWyatt was defeated by John Joseph Murphy in the 1981 election. She was later reelected as a councillor at large in 1985, and remained a sitting member of city council until her death; she died just two days before the city's 2001 municipal election, and was posthumously reelected to her seat on September 25. A by-election was held on November 27 of that year, and was won by Sandy Hickman.\n\nShe was a candidate for provincial office twice, running as an independent candidate in St. John's Centre and later for the leadership of the Progressive Conservative Party of Newfoundland and Labrador in the party's 1979 leadership convention. In the PC race, she garnered no votes (she didn't even vote for herself, admitting that she had run more \"to shake things up\" than out of a serious desire to actually lead the party) and was eliminated on the first ballot.\n\nWyatt revelled in a quirky and offbeat public image, once telling a reporter that she hoped to be classified \"as a freak, I suppose\".\n"}
{"id": "39015120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39015120", "title": "Egyptian Arts Group", "text": "Egyptian Arts Group\n\nEgyptian Arts Group is a production and distribution company operating business in the Middle East and North Africa and seeks to go worldwide.\n\nEgyptian Arts Group established with the participation of Core Production Company and Switch Production Company. Acquired expertise of the two companies,Egyptian Arts Group aims to produce different offering of TV and film market in terms of production quality, and the first production was Bab El Khalk TV series, broadcast on more popular channels like CBC, Al Mehwar, Dream 2, Bab El Khalk is considered Mahmoud Abdel Aziz renturn after 8 years since his last successful TV Series “Mahmoud Al Masry”.\n\nAnd also a representative of the younger generation was represented by many film and television successful roles and began working as assistant director in some programs and works of art.\nAnd has considerable experience in the field of Advertising and organizing major concerts in Egypt.\n\nAnd also Managing Director of Switch artistic production and managing director of the company 4P'S and propaganda Arab Organization for Industrialization\nand has an experience of over 20 years in the field.\n\n"}
{"id": "650653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=650653", "title": "Electronic assessment", "text": "Electronic assessment\n\nElectronic assessment, also known as e-assessment, online assessment, computer assisted/mediated assessment and computer-based assessment, is the use of information technology in various forms of assessment such as educational assessment, health assessment, psychiatric assessment, and psychological assessment. This may utilize an online computer connected to a network. This definition embraces a wide range of student activity ranging from the use of a word processor to on-screen testing. Specific types of e-assessment include multiple choice, online/electronic submission, computerized adaptive testing and computerized classification testing.\n\nDifferent types of online assessments contain elements of one or more of the following components, depending on the assessment's purpose: formative, diagnostic, or summative. Instant and detailed feedback may (or may not) be enabled.\n\nIn education assessment, large-scale examining bodies find the journey from traditional paper-based exam assessment to fully electronic assessment a long one. Practical considerations such as having the necessary IT hardware to enable large numbers of student to sit an electronic examination at the same time, as well as the need to ensure a stringent level of security (for example, see: Academic dishonesty) are among the concerns that need to resolved to accomplish this transition.\n\ne-marking is one way that many exam assessment and awarding bodies, such as Cambridge International Examinations, are utilizing innovations in technology to expedite the marking of examinations (see: Electronic marking). In some cases, e-marking can be combined with electronic examinations, whilst in other cases students will still handwrite their exams with papers scanned in securely and uploaded into an e-marking system.\n\nE-assessment is becoming more widely used by exam awarding bodies, particularly those with multiple or international study centres and those which offer remote study courses. Industry bodies such as The e-Assessment Association (eAA), founded in 2008, as well as events run by the Association of Test Publishers (ATP) that focus specifically on Innovations in Testing, represent the growth in adoption of technology-enhanced assessment.\n\nIn psychiatric and psychological testing, e-assessment can be used not only to assess cognitive and practical abilities but anxiety disorders, such as social anxiety disorder, i.e. SPAI-B. Widely in psychology. Cognitive abilities are assessed using \"e-testing\" software, while practical abilities are assessed using \"e-portfolios\" or \"simulation\" software.\n\nOnline assessment is used primarily to measure cognitive abilities, demonstrating what has been learned after a particular educational event has occurred, such as the end of an instructional unit or chapter. When assessing practical abilities or to demonstrate learning that has occurred over a longer period of time an online portfolio (or ePortfolio) is often used. The first element that must be prepared when teaching an online course is assessment. Assessment is used to determine if learning is happening, to what extent and if changes need to be made.\n\nMost students will not complete assignments unless there is an assessment (i.e. motivation). It is the instructors role to catalyze student motivation. Appropriate feedback is the key to assessment, whether or not the assessment is graded.\n\nStudents are often asked to work in groups. With this brings on new assessment strategies. Students can be evaluated using a collaborative learning model in which the learning is driven by the students and/or a cooperative learning model where tasks are assigned and the instructor is involved in decisions.\n\nPre-testing – Prior to the teaching of a lesson or concept, a student can complete an online pretest to determine their level of knowledge. This form of assessment helps determine a baseline so that when a summative assessment or post-test is given, quantitative evidence is provided showing that learning has occurred.\n\nFormative assessment – Formative assessment is used to provide feedback during the learning process. In online assessment situations, objective questions are posed, and feedback is provided to the student either during or immediately after the assessment.\n\nSummative assessment – Summative assessments provide a quantitative grade and are often given at the end of a unit or lesson to determine that the learning objectives have been met.\n\nPractice Testing – With the ever-increasing use of high-stakes testing in the educational arena, online practice tests are used to give students an edge. Students can take these types of assessments multiple times to familiarize themselves with the content and format of the assessment.\n\nSurveys – Online surveys may be used by educators to collect data and feedback on student attitudes, perceptions or other types of information that might help improve the instruction.\n\nEvaluations – This type of survey allows facilitators to collect data and feedback on any type of situation where the course or experience needs justification or improvement.\n\nPerformance testing – The user shows what they know and what they can do. This type of testing is used to show technological proficiency, reading comprehension, math skills, etc. This assessment is also used to identify gaps in student learning.\n\nNew technologies, such as the Web, digital video, sound, animations, and interactivity, are providing tools that can make assessment design and implementation more efficient, timely, and sophisticated.\n\nElectronic marking, also known as e-marking and onscreen marking, is the use of digital educational technology specifically designed for marking. The term refers to the electronic marking or grading of an exam. E-marking is an examiner led activity closely related to other e-assessment activities such as e-testing, or e-learning which are student led. E-marking allows markers to mark a scanned script or online response on a computer screen rather than on paper.\n\nThere are no restrictions to the types of tests that can use e-marking, with e-marking applications designed to accommodate multiple choice, written, and even video submissions for performance examinations. E-marking software is used by individual educational institutions and can also be rolled out to the participating schools of awarding exam organisations. e-marking has been used to mark many well known high stakes examinations, which in the United Kingdom include A levels and GCSE exams, and in the US includes the SAT test for college admissions. Ofqual reports that e-marking is the main type of marking used for general qualifications in the United Kingdom.\n\nEarly adopters include the University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate, (which operates under the brand name Cambridge Assessment) which conducted its first major test of e-marking in November 2000. Cambridge Assessment has conducted extensive research into e-marking and e-assessment. The syndicate has published a series of papers, including research specific to e-marking such as: Examining the impact of moving to on-screen marking on concurrent validity.\n\nIn 2007, the International Baccalaureate implemented e-marking. In 2012, 66% of nearly 16 million exam scripts were \"e-marked\" in the United Kingdom. Ofqual reports that in 2015, all key stage 2 tests in the United Kingdom will be marked onscreen.\n\nIn 2014, the Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA) announced that most of the National 5 question papers would be e-marked.\n\nIn June 2015, the Odisha state government in India announced that it planned to use e-marking for all Plus II papers from 2016.\n\ne-marking can be used to mark examinations that are completed on paper and then scanned and uploaded as digital images, as well as online examinations. Multiple-choice exams can be either marked by examiners online or be automarked where appropriate. When marking written script exams, e-marking applications provide markers with the online tools and resources to mark as they go and can add up marks as they progress without exceeding the prescribed total for each question.\n\nAll candidate details are hidden from the work being marked to ensure anonymity during the marking process. Once marking is complete, results can be uploaded immediately, reducing both the time spent by examiners posting results and the wait time for students.\n\nThe e-marking FAQ is a comprehensive list of answers to frequently asked questions surrounding e-marking.\n\nIt has also been noted that in regards to university level work, providing electronic feedback can be more time-consuming than traditional assessments, and therefore more expensive.\n\nIn 1986, Lichtenwald investigated the test validity and test reliability of either personal computer administration or a paper and pencil administration of the Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test-Revised (PPVT-R). His project report included a review and analysis of the literature of pre mid 1980s E-assessment systems.\n\nA review of the literature of E-assessment from the 1970s until 2000 examined the advantages and disadvantages of E-assessments.\n\nA detailed review of the literature regarding advantages and disadvantages of E-assessment for different types of tests for different types of students in different educational environment from childhood through young adulthood was completed in 2010.\n\nAcademic dishonesty, commonly known as cheating, occurs in all levels of educational institutions. In traditional classrooms, students cheat in various forms such as hidden prepared notes not permitted to be used or looking at another student's paper during an exam, copying homework from one another, or copying from a book, article or media without properly citing the source. Individuals can be dishonest due to lack of time management skills, pursuit for better grades, cultural behavior or a misunderstanding of plagiarism.\n\nOnline classroom environments are no exception to the possibility of academic dishonesty. It can easily be seen from a student's perspective as an easy passing grade. Proper assignments types, meetings and projects can prevent academic dishonesty in the online classroom. However, online assessment may provide additional possibilities for cheating, such as hacking.\n\nTwo common types of academic dishonesty are identity fraud and plagiarism.\n\nIdentity fraud can occur in the traditional or online classroom. There is a higher chance in online classes due to the lack of proctored exams or instructor-student interaction. In a traditional classroom, instructors have the opportunity to get to know the students, learn their writing styles or use proctored exams. To prevent identity fraud in an online class, instructors can use proctored exams through the institutions testing center or require students to come in at a certain time for the exam. Correspondence through the phone or video conferencing techniques can allow an instructor to become familiar with a student through their voice and appearance. Another option would be personalize assignments to students backgrounds or current activities. This allows the student to apply it to their personal life and gives the instructor more assurance the actual student is completing the assignment. Lastly, an instructor may not make the assignments heavily weighted so the students do not feel as pressured.\n\nPlagiarism is the misrepresentation of another person's work. It is easy to copy and paste from the internet or retype directly from a source. It is not only the exact wordage, but the thought or idea.\nIt is important to learn to properly cite a source when using someone else's work.\n\nTo assist sharing of assessment items across disparate systems, global standards such as the IMS Question and Test Interoperability specification (QTI) have emerged.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "263153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=263153", "title": "Elemental", "text": "Elemental\n\nUniversally, an elemental is a type of magical entity who personifies a force of nature and controls natural powers derived from their element.\n\nWithin the Paracelsian concept an elemental is a mythic being described in occult and alchemical works from around the time of the European Renaissance and particularly elaborated in the 16th century works of Paracelsus. From the classical Paracelsian perspective there are four elemental categories: gnomes, undines, sylphs, and salamanders. These correspond to the Classical elements of antiquity: earth, water, air and fire. Aether (quintessence) was not assigned an elemental. Terms employed for beings associated with alchemical elements vary by source and gloss.\n\nThe Paracelsian concept of elementals draws from several much older traditions in mythology and religion. Common threads can be found in folklore, animism, and anthropomorphism. Examples of creatures such as the Pygmy were taken from Greek mythology.\n\nThe elements of earth, water, air, and fire, were classed as the fundamental building blocks of nature. This system prevailed in the Classical world and was highly influential in medieval natural philosophy. Although Paracelsus uses these foundations and the popular preexisting names of elemental creatures, he is doing so to present new ideas which expand on his own philosophical system. The homunculus is another example of a Paracelsian idea with roots in earlier alchemical, scientific, and folklore traditions.\n\nIn his 16th-century alchemical work \"Liber de Nymphis, sylphis, pygmaeis et salamandris et de caeteris spiritibus\", Paracelsus identified mythological beings as belonging to one of the four elements. Part of the \"Philosophia Magna,\" this book was first printed in 1566 after Paracelsus' death. He wrote the book to \"describe the creatures that are outside the cognizance of the light of nature, how they are to be understood, what marvellous works God has created\". He states that there is more bliss in describing these \"divine objects\" than in describing fencing, court etiquette, cavalry, and other worldly pursuits. The following is his archetypal being for each of the four elements:\n\n\nThe concept of elementals seems to have been conceived by Paracelsus in the 16th century, though he did not in fact use the term \"elemental\" or a German equivalent. He regarded them not so much as spirits but as beings between creatures and spirits, generally being invisible to mankind but having physical and commonly humanoid bodies, as well as eating, sleeping, and wearing clothes like humans. Paracelsus gave common names for the elemental types, as well as correct names, which he seems to have considered somewhat more proper, \"recht namen\". He also referred to them by purely German terms which are roughly equivalent to \"water people,\" \"mountain people,\" and so on, using all the different forms interchangeably. His fundamental classification scheme on the first page of Tractatus II of the \"Liber de Nymphis\" is based on where the elementals live, and he gives the following names:\nOf the names he used, \"gnomus\", \"undina\", and \"sylph\" are all thought to have appeared first in Paracelsus' works, though \"undina\" is a fairly obvious Latin derivative from the word \"unda\" meaning \"wave.\" \n\nIn \"De Meteoris\" he referred to the elementals collectively as \"Sagani\".\n\nHe noted that undines are similar to humans in size, while sylphs are rougher, coarser, longer, and stronger. Gnomes are short, while salamanders are long, narrow, and lean. The elementals are said to be able to move through their own elements as human beings move through air. Gnomes, for example, can move through rocks, walls, and soil. Sylphs are the closest to humans in his conception because they move through air like we do, while in fire they burn, in water they drown, and in earth, they get stuck. Paracelsus states that each one stays healthy in its particular \"chaos,\" as he terms it, but dies in the others.\n\nParacelsus conceived human beings to be composed of three parts, an elemental body, a sidereal spirit, and an immortal divine soul. Elementals lacked this last part, the immortal soul. However, by marriage with a human being, the elemental and its offspring could gain a soul.\n\nIn his influential \"De Occulta Philosophia\", published in 1531-33, several decades before the publication of Paracelsus' \"Philosophia Magna\", Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa also wrote of four classes of spirits corresponding to the four elements. However, he did not give special names for the classes: \"In like manner they distribute these into more orders, so as some are fiery, some watery, some aerial, some terrestrial.\" Agrippa did however give an extensive list of various mythological beings of this type, although without clarifying which belongs to which elemental class. Like Paracelsus, he did not use the term \"elemental spirit\" \"per se\".\n\nA 1670 French satire of occult philosophy,\" Comte de Gabalis\", was prominent in popularizing Paracelsus' theory of elementals. It particularly focused on the idea of elemental marriage discussed by Paracelsus. In the book, the titular \"Count of Kabbalah\" explains that members of his order (to which Paracelsus is said to belong) refrain from marriage to human beings in order to retain their freedom to bestow souls upon elementals. \"Comte de Gabalis\" used the terms \"sylphide\" and \"gnomide\" to refer to female sylphs and gnomes (often \"sylphid\" and \"gnomid\" in English translations). Male nymphs (the term used instead of the Paracelsian \"undine\") are said to be rare, while female salamanders are rarely seen.\n\nThe Rosicrucians claimed to be able to see such elemental spirits. To be admitted to their society, it was previously necessary for the eyes to be purged with the Panacea or \"Universal Medicine,\" a legendary alchemical substance with miraculous curative powers. As well, glass globes would be prepared with one of the four elements and for one month exposed to beams of sunlight. With these steps the initiated would see innumerable beings immediately. These beings, known as elementals, were said to be longer lived than man but ceased to exist upon death. However, if the elemental were to wed a mortal, they would become immortal. This exception seemed to work in reverse when it came to immortals, though, for if an elemental were to wed an immortal being, the immortal would gain the mortality of the elemental. One of the conditions of joining the Rosicrucians however, was a vow of chastity in hopes of marrying an elemental.\n\nIn Jainism, there is a superficially similar concept within its general cosmology, the \"ekendriya jiva\", \"one-sensed beings\" with bodies (\"kaya\") that are composed of a single element, albeit with a 5-element system (earth, water, air, fire, and plant), but these beings are actual physical objects and phenomena such as rocks, rain, fires and so on which are endowed with souls (\"jiva\"). In the Paracelsian concept, elementals are conceived more as supernatural humanoid beings which are much like human beings except for lacking souls. This is quite the opposite from the Jain conception which rather than positing soulless elementals is positing that physical objects have some type of soul and that what are commonly considered inanimate objects have this particular type of soul.\n\nIn contemporary times there are those who study and practice rituals to invoke elementals. These include Wiccans, and followers of nature-based religions. \n\nElementals became popular characters in Romantic literature after Paracelsus. Even by the 17th century, elemental spirits after the Paracelsian concept appeared in works by John Dryden and in the \"Comte de Gabalis\". Alexander Pope cited \"Comte de Gabalis\" as his source for elemental lore in his 1712 poem \"the Rape of the Lock\".\n\nFouqué's wildly popular 1811 novella \"Undine\" is one of the most influential literary examples. Another example is the DC Comics superhero team The Elementals, composed of the characters Gnome, Sylph, Salamander, and Undine. \n\nElementals related to the four classical elements appeared in the fiction of Michael Moorcock, notably his 1972 novel \"Elric of Melniboné\", and a variant appeared in the 1970s \"Dungeons and Dragons\" role-playing game. The concept has since been expanded on in numerous other fantasy, computer and trading card games.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5626283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5626283", "title": "Generative anthropology", "text": "Generative anthropology\n\nGenerative anthropology is a field of study based on the theory that the origin of human language was a singular event and that the history of human culture is a genetic or \"generative\" development stemming from the development of language.\n\nIn contrast to more common theories that examine human culture in terms of a multiplicity of complex cultural differences, generative anthropology attempts to understand cultural phenomena in the simplest terms possible: all things human are traced back to a hypothetical single origin point at which human beings first used signs to communicate.\n\nGenerative Anthropology originated with Professor Eric Gans of UCLA who developed his ideas in a series of books and articles beginning with \"The Origin of Language: A Formal Theory of Representation\" (1981), which builds on the ideas of René Girard, notably that of mimetic desire. However, in establishing the theory of Generative Anthropology, Gans departs from and goes beyond Girard's work in many ways. Generative Anthropology is therefore an independent and original way of understanding the human species, its origin, culture, history, and development.\n\nGans founded (and edits) the web-based journal \"Anthropoetics: The Journal of Generative Anthropology\" as a scholarly forum for research into human culture and origins based on his theories of Generative Anthropology and the closely related theories of fundamental anthropology developed by René Girard. In his online \"Chronicles of Love and Resentment\" Gans applies the principles of Generative Anthropology to a wide variety of fields including popular culture, film, post-modernism, economics, contemporary politics, the Holocaust, philosophy, religion, and paleo-anthropology.\n\nThe central hypothesis of generative anthropology is that the origin of language was a singular event. Human language is radically different from animal communication systems. It possesses syntax, allowing for unlimited new combinations and content; it is symbolic, and it possesses a capacity for history. Thus it is hypothesized that the origin of language must have been a singular event, and the principle of parsimony requires that it originated only once.\n\nLanguage makes possible new forms of social organization radically different from animal \"pecking order\" hierarchies dominated by an alpha male. Thus, the development of language allowed for a new stage in human evolution – the beginning of culture, including religion, art, desire, and the sacred. As language provides memory and history via a record of its own history, language itself can be defined via a hypothesis of its origin based on our knowledge of human culture. As with any scientific hypothesis, its value is in its ability to account for the known facts of human history and culture.\n\nMimetic (imitatory) behaviour connects proto-hominid species with humans. Imitation is an adaptive learning behavior, a form of intelligence favored by natural selection. Imitation, however, as René Girard observes, leads to conflict when two individuals imitate each other in their attempt to appropriate a desired object. The problem is to explain the transition from one form of mimesis, imitation, to another, representation. Although many anthropologists have hypothesized that language evolved to help humans describe their world, this ignores the fact that intra-species violence, not the environment, poses the greatest threat to human existence. Human representation, according to Gans, is not merely a \"natural\" evolutionary development of animal communication systems, but is a radical departure from it. The signifier implies a symbolic dimension that is not reducible to empirical referents.\n\nAt the event of the origin of language, there was a proto-human hominid species which had gradually become more mimetic, presumably in response to environmental pressures including climate changes and competition for limited resources. Higher primates have dominance hierarchies which serve to limit and prevent destructive conflict within the social group. However, as individuals within the proto-human group became more mimetic, the dominance system broke down and became inadequate to control the threat of violence posed by conflictual mimesis.\n\nGans asks us to imagine an \"originary event\" along the following lines: A group of hominids have surrounded a food object, e.g. the body of a large mammal following a hunt. The attraction of the object, however, exceeds the limits of simple appetite due to the operation of group mimesis, essentially an expression of competition or rivalry. The object becomes more attractive simply because each member of the group finds it attractive: each individual in the group observes the attention that his rivals give the object. Actual appetite is artificially inflated through this mutual reinforcement. The power of appetitive mimesis in conjunction with the threat of violence is such that the central object begins to assume a sacred aura – infinitely desirable and infinitely dangerous.\n\nMimesis thus gives rise to a pragmatic paradox: the double imperative to take the desired object for personal gain, and to refrain from taking it to avoid conflict. In other words, imitating the rival means not imitating the rival, because imitation leads to conflict, the attempt to destroy rather than imitate (Gans, \"Signs of Paradox\" 18). Generative Anthropology theorizes that when this mimetic instinct becomes so powerful that it seems to possess a sacred force endangering the survival of the group, the resultant intra-species pressure favours the emergence of the sign. \nNo member of the group is able to take the sacred object, and at least one member of the group intends this aborted gesture as a sign designating the central object. This meaning is successfully communicated to the group, who follow suit by reading their aborted gestures as signs also. The sign focuses attention on the sacred power of the central object, which is conceived as the source of its own power. The object which compels attention yet prohibits consumption can only be represented. The basic advantage of the sign over the object is that \"The sign is an economical substitute for its inaccessible referent. Things are scarce and consequently objects of potential contention; signs are abundant because they can be reproduced at will\" (Gans, \"Originary Thinking\" 9). The desire for the object is mediated by the sign, which paradoxically both creates desire, by attributing significance to the object, yet also defers desire, by designating the object as sacred or taboo. The mimetic impulse is sublimated, expressed in a different form, as the act of representation. Individual self-consciousness is also born at this moment, in the recognition of alienation from the sacred center. The primary value/function of the sign in this scenario is ethical, as the deferral of violence, but the sign is also referential. What the sign refers to, strictly speaking, is not the physical object, but rather the mediated object of desire as realized in the imagination of each individual.\nThe emergence of the sign is only a temporary deferral of violence. It is immediately followed by the \"sparagmos\", the discharge of the mimetic tension created by the sign in the violent dismemberment and consumption of the worldly incarnation of the sign, the central appetitive object. The violence of the sparagmos is mediated by the sign and thus directed towards the central object rather than the other members of the group. By including the sparagmos in the originary hypothesis, Gans intends to incorporate Girard's insights into scapegoating and the sacrificial (see \"Signs of Paradox\" 131–151).\n\nThe \"scene of representation\" is fundamentally social or interpersonal. The act of representation always implies the presence of another or others. The use of a sign evokes the communal scene of representation, structured by a sacred center and a human periphery. The significance of the sign seems to emerge from the sacred center (in its resistance to appropriation), but the pragmatic significance of the sign is realized in the peace brokered amongst the humans on the periphery.\n\nAll signs point to the sacred, that which is significant to the community. The sacred cannot be signified directly, since it is essentially an imaginary or ideal construction of mimetic desire. The significance is realized in the human relationships as mediated by the sign. When an individual refers to an object or idea, the reference is fundamentally to the significance of that object or idea for the human community. Language attempts to reproduce the non-violent presence of the community to itself, even though it may attempt to do so sacrificially, by designating a scapegoat victim.\n\nGenerative Anthropology is so called because human culture is understood as a \"genetic\" development of the originary event. The scene of representation is a true cultural universal, but it must be analyzed in terms of its dialectical development. The conditions for the generation of significance are subject to historical evolution, so that the formal articulation of the sign always includes a dialogical relationship to past forms.\n\nThe Generative Anthropology Society & Conference (GASC) is a scholarly association formed for the purpose of facilitating intellectual exchange amongst those interested in fundamental reflection on the human, originary thinking, and Generative Anthropology, including support for regular conferences. GASC was formally organized on June 24, 2010 at Westminster College, Salt Lake City during the 4th Annual Generative Anthropology Summer Conference. Further information, including how to join, can be found at the Generative Anthropology Society & Conference Website.\n\nSince 2007, Generative Anthropology Society & Conference (GASC) has held an annual summer conference on Generative Anthropology. \n\n2007 - Kwantlen University College of University of British Columbia (Vancouver, British Columbia)\n\n2008 - Chapman University (Orange, California)\n\n2009 - University of Ottawa (Ottawa, Ontario)\n\n2010 - Westminster College (Utah) (Salt Lake City) and Brigham Young University (Provo, Utah)\n\n2011 - High Point University (High Point, North Carolina)\n\n2012 - International Christian University (Tokyo, Japan)\n\n2013 - University of California, Los Angeles\n\n2014 - University of Victoria (Greater Victoria, British Columbia), Canada\n\n2015 - High Point University (High Point, North Carolina)\n\n2016 - Kinjo Gakuin University (Nagoya, Japan)\n\n\n\"The Origin of Language: A Formal Theory of Representation\". University of California Press, 1981.\n\n\"The End of Culture: Toward a Generative Anthropology\". University of California Press, 1985.\n\n\"Science and Faith: The Anthropology of Revelation\". Savage, Md.: Rowman & Littlefield, 1990.\n\n\"Originary Thinking: Elements of Generative Anthropology\". Stanford University Press, 1993.\n\n\"Signs of Paradox: Irony, Resentment, and Other Mimetic Structures\". Stanford University Press, 1997.\n\n\"The Scenic Imagination: Originary Thinking from Hobbes to the Present Day\". Stanford University Press 2007.\n\n\"A New Way of Thinking: Generative Anthropology in Religion, Philosophy, and Art\". Davies Group, 2011\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8931626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8931626", "title": "Genkō yōshi", "text": "Genkō yōshi\n\nWhile in the past \"genkō yōshi\" was used for all types of manuscript writing (essays, creative writing, news writing and so on), in most cases the advent of the computer means that this is now the preferred medium, although some Japanese word processing software still includes a \"genkō yōshi\" template. However, \"genkō yōshi\" is still very widely used, especially by students. Primary and secondary students in particular are required to hand in assignments written on \"genkō yōshi\", and essays for school entrance examinations are also written on the paper, making knowledge of the correct way to use \"genkō yōshi\" essential.\n\nSome programs of Japanese as a foreign language also require or encourage their adult students to use \"genkō yōshi\" for practice or formal assignments or both, as use of the paper helps students to learn correct spacing when writing vertically.\n\n\"Genkō yōshi\" is used for vertical writing (although by turning the page sideways it can be used for horizontal writing too), and is most commonly printed in columns of twenty squares, with ten columns per page (each B4-sized sheet of \"genkō yōshi\" comprising two pages), but other configurations are also available. Between consecutive columns of squares is a blank space used for writing furigana (ruby characters), bōten (a type of punctuation mark used for giving emphasis) or other marks.\n\nIn the centre of each two-page spread of \"genkō yōshi\" (between the two sets of ten columns) is a wide blank space, allowing the sheets to be folded or bound.\n\nPrior to the Edo period, handwriting was often calligraphic and written materials often made use of scrolls, which would have made the guidelines printed on \"genkō yōshi\" a hindrance, although paper was sometimes printed with vertical lines designed to keep columns of vertical writing straight.\n\n\"Genkō yōshi\" came into common use in the middle of the Meiji period with the rising importance of newspapers and magazines, and the attendant need to count characters precisely.\n\nWhile \"genkō yōshi\" can be used for horizontal writing, it is most commonly used for vertical writing, which is read from right to left. The first page is therefore the right hand side of the sheet. The title is placed on the first column, usually leaving two or three leading blank spaces. The author's name is placed on column 2, with an empty square or two below and an empty square between the given and family names. The first sentence begins on column 3 or 4.\n\nIn Japanese, each paragraph, including the first one, is usually indented by a square. However, when writing quoted text such as direct speech, the opening quotation mark ( or in vertical writing) is placed in the first square of the column.\n\nLike printed vertical Japanese, full stops, commas, and small kana are placed in the top right corner of their own square. All punctuation marks, other marks (such as parentheses), and small kana usually occupy their own square, unless this would place them at the top of a new column, in which case they share the last square of the previous column with the character in that square. (This is the kinsoku shori rule.) A full stop followed directly by closing quotation mark are written in one square. A blank square is left after non-Japanese punctuation marks (such as exclamation points and question marks). Ellipses and dashes use two squares.\n\nFurigana are written to the right of the relevant character, in small print.\n\nWords, phrases, and sentences in Western characters (such as Roman letters) except acronyms like USA and NATO are often, but not always, written vertically by turning the page a quarter turn counterclockwise, so that when the page is viewed normally they are sideways. Each square can accommodate two Western characters. \n\nManga artists and other illustrators also use a special type of \"genkō yōshi\" called manga \"genkō yōshi\". This paper is printed with very light blue lines which do not show up when copied, and there are several varieties, each with a different type of printed grid. These are also available in different weights and sizes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6328557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6328557", "title": "International Drama and Theatre Education Association", "text": "International Drama and Theatre Education Association\n\nThe International Drama and Theatre Education Association - IDEA - represents more than 90 countries around the globe.\n\nAfter the second world war, UNESCO - the United Nations Education,the people of Science and Cultural Organisation, recognised the unique role that arts education can play in the creation of a culture of peace, international understanding, social cohesion and sustainable development. It was not until 1992 that the International Drama and Theatre Education Association was founded. IDEA's aim is to promote and advocate drama and theatre as part of a full human education and to provide an international forum for those working as drama and theatre educators throughout the world. IDEA encompasses the integral place of drama and theatre education in pre-schools, primary, secondary and tertiary education.\n\nIDEA Congresses have been held in:\n\nThe 6th World IDEA Congress was held in 2007 in Hong Kong, SAR, China. Its theme was 'Planting Ideas'. Over 400 delegates attended from all over the world. Internationally respected drama and theatre arts practitioners were invited by the organising committee to delivered keynote addresses and conduct seminars, special interest groups and workshops. A host of different performances also took place during the congress highlighting Chinese Opera, Drama in Schools, Dance in Schools and Drama for the Disabled. Part of the congress was also committed to the world of young people. This was called Young IDEA.\n\nAt the 6th World IDEA Congress, a world alliance of the three key arts education associations was founded. This brought together IDEA with INSEA (International Society for Education Through Art) and ISME (International Society for Music Education). The aim of the world alliance is to \"allow citizens to be enriched through the arts to allow confident, flexible intelligences, creative verbal and non-verbal communication skills, abilities to think critically and imaginatively, intercultural understandings and an empathetic commitment to cultural diversity in our knowledge based post-industrial societies.\" \n\nTo facilitate communication between IDEA members, Dramatool, an IDEA special website, was launched to aid international collaboration between different drama-practitioners.\n\nAt the 2010 IDEA World Congress, Patrice Baldwin was elected as the President of IDEA until July 2013. As the President of the International Drama-Education Association (IDEA), Patrice Baldwin is also an Executive Forum Member of the World Alliance for Arts Education. She has published several books on Drama for Learning and is also the Chair of National Drama, the leading association for UK drama teachers and theatre educators.\n\n"}
{"id": "43616243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43616243", "title": "Jaya Chandrika", "text": "Jaya Chandrika\n\nThe Jaya Chandrika, also known as the Jayachandrika, is a historical work composed in 1792 by Prahallad Dubey, the court poet of Sarangarh. It was written in the Lariya language for Chauhan, the ruler of Sambalpur.\n\nJay Chandirka narrates the tale, about the defeat and death of Prthviraj Chauhan at the hands of the Muslims. During this conflict, Chauan's queen escaped to Patnagarh in West Odisha and was sheltered in the house of Chakradhara Panigrahi, where she gave birth to Ramai Deva. Deva eventually became the founder of Chauhan rule in West Odisha.\n\nThe story is told with some modifications in the Gazetteers, travel accounts and Indigenous records dealing with the Chauhanas of Odisha.\n"}
{"id": "7378675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7378675", "title": "John Tradescant the Younger", "text": "John Tradescant the Younger\n\nJohn Tradescant the Younger (; 4 August 1608 – 22 April 1662), son of John Tradescant the elder, was a botanist and gardener, born in Meopham, Kent, and educated at The King's School, Canterbury. Like his father, who collected specimens and rarities on his many trips abroad, he undertook collecting expeditions to Virginia between 1628 and 1637 (and possibly two more trips by 1662, though Potter and other authors doubt this). Among the seeds he brought back, to introduce to English gardens were great American trees, including magnolias, bald cypress and tulip tree, and garden plants such as phlox and asters. \n\nJohn Tradescant the Younger added his American acquisitions to the family's cabinet of curiosities, known as The Ark. These included the ceremonial cloak of Chief Powhatan, an important Native American relic. South Lambeth Road in Vauxhall was one of the boundaries of the Tradescant estate, where the collection was kept and Tradescant Road was laid out after the estate was built on in the late 1800s and named after the family.\nWhen his father died, he succeeded as head gardener to Charles I and Henrietta Maria of France, making gardens at the Queen's House, Greenwich, designed by Inigo Jones, from 1638 to 1642, when the queen fled the Civil War. He published the contents of his father's celebrated collection as \"Musaeum Tradescantianum\"—books, coins, weapons, costumes, taxidermy, and other curiosities—dedicating the first edition to the Royal College of Physicians (with whom he was negotiating for the transfer of his botanic garden), and the second edition to the recently restored Charles II. Tradescant bequeathed his library and museum to (or some say it was swindled from him by) Elias Ashmole (1617–1692), whose name it bears as the core of the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford where the Tradescant collections remain largely intact.\nHe was buried beside his father in the churchyard of St-Mary-at-Lambeth which is now established as the Garden Museum.\n\nHe is the subject of the novel \"Virgin Earth\" by Philippa Gregory, sequel to \"Earthly Joys\" about his father.\n\nThe standard author abbreviation Trad. is applied to species he described.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17629288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17629288", "title": "Koster and Bial's Music Hall", "text": "Koster and Bial's Music Hall\n\nKoster and Bial's Music Hall was an important vaudeville theatre in New York City, located at Broadway and Thirty-Fourth Street, where Macy's flagship store now stands. It had a seating capacity of 3,748, twice the size of many theaters. Ticket prices ranged from 25¢ for a seat in the gallery to $1.50 for one in the orchestra. The music hall featured many top performers of its day and is famous in cinema history as the site of the first public exhibition of the Vitascope on April 23, 1896.\n\nKoster and Bial's Music Hall was the successor to Koster and Bial's Concert Hall. That earlier establishment was located on 23rd Street. At that location, Koster and Bial had taken over Bryant's Opera House, a venue for minstrel shows. They offered food and drink along with vaudeville, circumventing a law against serving alcohol in theatres by replacing the curtain with a folding fan.\n\nThe last Koster and Bial's Music Hall originated when they moved uptown into the former Manhattan Opera House, a huge theatre built in Herald Square in 1892 by Oscar Hammerstein I in pursuit of his passion for grand opera. Quickly running into financial problems, Hammerstein decided to convert his theatre to a vaudeville format. He offered Koster and Bial a partnership under which he would manage the entertainment and they would manage the food. The new Koster and Bial's Music Hall opened on August 28, 1893 and proved to be very successful. Hammerstein however quarreled with his partners and lawsuits ensued. Ultimately Koster and Bial bought out Hammerstein and operated the theater solely on their own. The theatre finally closed in 1901 and was demolished to make way for Macy's Department Store.\n\nA small advertisement, mixed in with dozens of other theatre ads in \"The New York Times\" on April 19, 1896 read:\n(The Vitascope had actually been invented and developed outside of the Edison organization by Thomas Armat, but by mutual agreement Edison's Kinetograph company acquired, manufactured, and marketed it, and presented it as having been invented by Edison).\n\nThe pictures were projected on a twenty-foot screen in an ornate gilded frame. On April 24, the \"Times\" reported:\n\nA later \"Times\" article mentioned that \"[Mr. Edison] has bought, for about $5,000, two ancient, but still serviceable locomotives and a several dozen flat cars. He has built about a quarter of a mile of railroad track in a secluded spot, not far from his laboratory. In a few weeks he will start a train from each end of the track, and will run them to a crash... all the incidents of a train wreck will be caught by machines stationed at short intervals near the track.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "18118256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18118256", "title": "Kwalean languages", "text": "Kwalean languages\n\nThe Kwalean languages are a small family of Trans–New Guinea languages spoken in the \"Bird's Tail\" (southeastern peninsula) of New Guinea. They are sometimes included in a speculative Southeast Papuan branch of Trans–New Guinea (TNG), but the Southeast Papuan families have not been shown to be any more closely related to each other than they are to other TNG families.\n\nThe languages are Humene–Uare (Kwale), Mulaha (extinct).\n\nHumene and Uare are quite close (70% basic vocabulary), Mulaha more distant (22% with Uare).\n\nThe Kwalean family is not accepted by Søren Wichmann (2013), who splits it into two separate groups, namely Humene–Uare and Mulaha.\n\nPronouns are as follows:\n"}
{"id": "1709435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1709435", "title": "Life-Size", "text": "Life-Size\n\nLife-Size is a 2000 American fantasy-comedy television film directed by Mark Rosman and starring Lindsay Lohan and Tyra Banks. It originally premiered on ABC, and was released on DVD and VHS in the same year. The film follows a young girl whose Eve doll (somewhat like Barbie) is transformed into a living woman.\n\nFilmed during 1999, it premiered as part of \"The Wonderful World of Disney\" on ABC in March 2000.\n\nCasey Stuart (Lindsay Lohan) is a tomboy who is the quarterback of her school's seventh grade football team. Since her mother died two years ago, she has been avoiding her old friends and arguing with a boy on her team. Wanting to bring her mother back to life, Casey finds a book of magic with a section on resurrecting the dead at a local book store. A successful resurrection will become permanent unless it is undone before sunset on the fourth day after it begins. However, since the book was expensive, she left all the money she had on the shelf in a glass compartment which is where the book was.\n\nFollowing the book's instructions, Casey collects artifacts from her mother's life, including strands of hair in her hairbrush. However, the resurrection is unwittingly sabotaged when Drew Mitchell (Anne Marie Loder), a woman who works with and is romantically interested in Casey's father Ben (Jere Burns), gives Casey an Eve doll. Eve is a plastic doll in the form of a beautiful young woman, manufactured by \"Marathon Toys\". She has lots of accessories, including outfits appropriate to challenging careers such as law enforcement, medicine, and aerospace, and lives in Sunnyvale, \"in the middle of America\".\n\nAs Casey is preparing to resurrect her mother, Drew stops by to give her the doll for her birthday and uses the hairbrush to brush the doll's hair. With strands from the doll remaining on the brush as Casey utters the incantation, the magic acts on the doll rather than Casey's mother, and Casey wakes up the next morning to find Eve in bed with her in full size human form (Tyra Banks). Casey is upset by this, but Eve is excited about being human.\n\nOver the next few days, Eve buys clothes at the local shopping mall, uses her police training to stop a truck that almost runs Casey over, smells and eats for the first time, tries to do secretarial work, sings her theme song, and almost sets the Stuarts' kitchen on fire. She also helps Casey cope with the loss of her mother. Meanwhile, Casey discovers that she needs the second volume of the magic book to reverse Eve's spell.\n\nDuring this time, tension builds between Casey and her father, who has been missing her football games while trying to secure a promotion in his law firm. The tension is further increased by Ben's attraction to Eve, which Casey resents as a betrayal of her mother. Eve helps people turn into a better version of themselves.\n\nAs the film proceeds, Casey and Eve gradually become friends. Eve displays insight and sensitivity in talking with Casey about her mother, and she helps Casey with her self-confidence. In exchange, Casey gives Eve tips on how to be a popular doll and a good role model. By the time the magic book arrives at the local bookstore, Casey has decided she likes Eve, so she doesn't buy it. Unfortunately, Eve has been getting homesick. Discouraged by her difficulties in being human and worried about being discontinued by Marathon, Eve decides to undo the spell herself.\n\nAfter buying the book, and saying goodbye to Ben at Casey's championship game, she goes to Sunnyvale, a specially decorated room at Marathon headquarters, and recites the incantation. When Casey and Ben arrive, she tearfully bids them farewell and turns back into a doll. Sometime later, with the lessons learned from her experiences in the human world, she becomes a popular toy again. Casey resumes her old friendships, Ben is promoted at work, and Drew takes him to lunch.\n\nThe film ends with the cast, including Eve herself, dancing to Eve’s theme song.\n\nThe film was made-for-television. Lohan didn't have to audition for the role of Casey Stuart, the girl whose doll comes to life. The producers of the film offered her the role as a part of a three-picture contract with The Walt Disney Company. Banks was given the role of Eve, the doll that is magically transformed into a live woman during Casey's attempt to bring her mother back to life. Costume designer Maya Mani said, \"It was a joy to work with Tyra because she knows how to wear clothes. No matter what we put on her, she could carry it off.\"\n\nStephanie Moore came up with the idea of a doll coming to life. She collaborated with the director, Mark Rosman, on the teleplay for the film. Pre-production began in the summer of 1999, and filming began in October 1999.\n\nThe film starts with a commercial that promotes buying Eve dolls. For the doll commercial, production designer David Fischer deliberately went for a retro 1950s look, similar to \"The Jetsons\". \"It had to look dated but fun and inviting\", stated Rosman.\n\nFilming took place for three weeks. For the location, the producers thought Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada would be a good location for the film. The toy store used in the film is named \"Kaboodles\". This is the actual toy store's name, as it wasn't changed during production. It is located in Point Grey in Vancouver.\n\nThere are British Columbia flags on Ben's license plate, indicating that it is set in British Columbia Canada . However, also on the license plate, it says: Evergreen State. The Evergreen State is Washington. The film was originally going to première as a part of The Wonderful World of Disney on February 27, 2000. It was delayed by one week, and later released on March 5.\n\nGeorge Blondheim and Mark Rosman wrote a song titled \"Be a Star\" that Tyra Banks sings at a business party. The song is the theme song for the film, and was also reprised at the end of the film. Two songs by the group B*Witched were used in the film: \"C'est la Vie\" and \"Rollercoaster\". A song from Nobody's Angel's debut album, \"Keep Me Away\", was used near the end of the film.\n\nA sequel to the movie was first reported in November 2012. In January 2014, Disney Channel announced that they were working on a sequel to \"Life-Size\" titled \"Life-Size 2\", with Tyra Banks reprising the role of Eve. In March 2015, Banks tweeted that they were still working on the script. In September 2015, Banks said to \"Hollywood Life\": \"We have gotten many drafts of scripts, and the one thing I can say is that to the Disney Channel executives, \"Life-Size\" is so precious. It's like their baby, so they just want it perfect. They keep redoing it, and redoing it, and redoing the script, and we are in another round of redos, and we're hoping for Christmas 2016.\" Banks once again announced her involvement with the film during an interview with \"Variety\" in December 2015: \"There is no one else that can play Eve but me, thank you very much! I'm just joking with you, but yes, I am going to be Eve.\"\n\nIn April 2017, it was announced the film would debut on Freeform in December 2018. Banks said in a January 2018 interview that the script was almost finished and that production was expected to start in the summer of 2018. In July, Francia Raisa was confirmed to star. In mid-November 2018, it was announced on Freeform TV that \"Life-Size 2\" would debut on December 2, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "55497387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55497387", "title": "List of territorial entities where Afrikaans and Dutch are official languages", "text": "List of territorial entities where Afrikaans and Dutch are official languages\n\nThe following is a list of the territorial entities where Afrikaans and Dutch are official languages. It includes countries, which have Afrikaans and/or Dutch as (one of) their nationwide official language(s), as well as dependent territories with Afrikaans and/or Dutch as a co-official language.\n\nWorldwide, Afrikaans and Dutch as native or second language are spoken by approximately 46 million people. There is a high degree of mutual intelligibility between the two languages, particularly in written form. As an estimated 90 to 95% of Afrikaans vocabulary is ultimately of Dutch origin, there are few lexical differences between the two languages; however, Afrikaans has a considerably more regular morphology, grammar, and spelling.\n\nAfrikaans and/or Dutch are the official language of five sovereign countries, which lie in the Americas, Africa and Europe. These countries are referred to as the Nederlands taalgebied (Dutch language area). The Netherlands, Belgium and Suriname are member states of the Dutch Language Union; South Africa refuses to become a member state although Afrikaans is integrated in the task statement of the Dutch Language Union.\n\nAfrikaans and/or Dutch are co-official language in several dependent entities. At certain administrative levels in the Kingdom of the Netherlands and Belgium the Dutch language is a co-official language. The same happens with Afrikaans in South Africa.\n\nIn the Kingdom of the Netherlands Dutch is the only language that has an official status in all spheres of administration. At the federal level, in most provinces and municipalities Dutch is the sole administrative language. However, in some constituent countries, a province and some municipalities Dutch is a co-official language, together with West Frisian, Papiamento or English.\nAt the federal level Dutch, French and German are co-official languages. In the Flanders Region Dutch is the sole official language. In Brussels-Capital Region Dutch and French are co-official languages. In the Wallonia Region French and German are co-official languages, but in 4 municipalities limited government services are also available in Dutch.\nBetween 1910 and 1961 Dutch was a co-official official language of South Africa, together with English. In 1961 Dutch was replaced by Afrikaans as a co-official language. However, between 1925 and 1984 Dutch and Afrikaans were seen as two varieties of the same language by the Official Languages of the Union Act, 1925 and later article 119 of the South African Constitution of 1961. After a short period (1984-1994) where Afrikaans and English were the two co-official languages of South Africa, Afrikaans has been one of eleven official languages since 1994.\n\nSince 2012 a new language policy has been implemented where working languages of all government institutions were established. Every government institution is required to establish three working languages out of the eleven official languages. Provinces and municipalities are obligated to taken into account the local language demographics before establishing three working languages.\n\nDutch is not an official language in Indonesia, but the language is widely used in Indonesia as a source language after a 350-year colonial period. Certainly in law, Dutch has some official status as many colonial laws are available in Dutch only.\n\nAlthough Dutch is the native language of people in French Flanders, Dutch is not an official language in France or French Flanders.\n\nAfrikaans and/or Dutch are an official languages of the following international institutions:\n\n"}
{"id": "954128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=954128", "title": "Lucifer's Hammer", "text": "Lucifer's Hammer\n\nLucifer's Hammer is a science fiction post-apocalypse / survival novel by American writers Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle, first published in 1977. It was nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Novel in 1978. A comic book adaptation was published by Innovation Comics in 1993.\n\nWhen wealthy soap company heir and amateur astronomer Tim Hamner co-discovers a new comet, dubbed Hamner-Brown, documentary producer Harvey Randall persuades Hamner to have his family's company sponsor a television documentary series on the subject. Political lobbying by California Senator Arthur Jellison eventually gets a joint Apollo-Soyuz (docking with Skylab B) mission into space to study the comet, dubbed \"The Hammer\" by popular media, which is expected to pass close to the Earth.\n\nDespite the scientific community repeatedly assuring the public that a collision with Earth is extremely unlikely, pieces of the comet's nucleus impact across the western hemisphere with devastating results. The strikes on parts of Europe, Africa, the Gulf of Mexico, and both the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans set off volcanoes, destabilize fault lines, including the San Andreas fault, and cause tsunamis thousands of meters high, destroying major coastal cities around the world, killing billions and initiating long-term climate problems due to the massive quantities of vaporized seawater in the atmosphere.\n\nImmediately after the strike, China, anticipating the coming ice age launches a preemptive nuclear attack on Russia. The last Soviet Premier reassures the US that they are not the target, and he requests help against the unprovoked attack.\n\nJellison's ranch forms the centerpost of a fiefdom in the Sierra foothills, dubbed \"the Stronghold\" where he presides over a small population of survivors who struggle to maintain civilization.\n\nShortwave radio, the only surviving means of mass communication, is eagerly monitored and reveals a chaotic situation after the Fall. Several people, including some who were previously officials of the former United States Government, claim to be the new or currently acting President of the United States, while others are now self-proclaimed monarchs of various regions or areas. Many people subsist by looting former stores and by catching rats and various fish, especially the now-plentiful giant carp, which are mostly either former pet goldfish or their progeny, engorged by the massive supply of food available to them, primarily in the form of human and animal corpses. Some advanced technical knowledge was maintained by the means of the preservation of a collection of books which had been wrapped in impermeable plastic and submerged in a septic tank shortly after Hammerfall and later retrieved by a JPL scientist who realized their potential value and likely scarcity in a post-Hammer world.\n\nReverend Henry Armitage manages to take control of the remnants of a former United States Army unit and integrates the soldiers and his pre-existing band of followers, into the New Brotherhood Army, who begin a rampage through the area, culminating in a series of battles with the inhabitants of the Stronghold. Jellison's force prevails, saving the Stronghold while also defending a nuclear power plant nearby, thus preserving a supply of electric power needed to rebuild civilization.\n\nNiven and Pournelle originally pitched the story to publishers as an alien invasion story, wherein the aliens drop a comet onto Earth after humanity fights them. Jim Baen told them to just write the comet story. The original story idea was later written as their novel \"Footfall\".\n\nJudith T. Yamamoto in her review for the \"Library Journal\" said that the novel was full of \"good, solid science, a gigantic but well developed and coordinated cast of characters, and about a megaton of suspenseful excitement.\" Her one negative comment was that the pro-technology pitch might turn off some readers but \"all in all it's a good book, if not a great one.\" \"Lucifer's Hammer\" received a nomination for the Hugo Award for Best Novel in 1978.\n\nC. Ben Ostrander reviewed \"Lucifer's Hammer\" in \"The Space Gamer\" No. 13. Ostrander commented that \"I recommend this book [...] Don't miss it for a long, interesting story.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "373235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373235", "title": "Mass-Observation", "text": "Mass-Observation\n\nMass-Observation was a United Kingdom social research organisation founded in 1937. Their work ended in the mid-1960s but was revived in 1981. The Archive is housed at the University of Sussex.\n\nMass-Observation aimed to record everyday life in Britain through a panel of around 500 untrained volunteer observers who either maintained diaries or replied to open-ended questionnaires (known as directives). They also paid investigators to anonymously record people's conversation and behaviour at work, on the street and at various public occasions including public meetings and sporting and religious events.\n\nThe creators of the Mass-Observation project were three Cambridge graduates: anthropologist Tom Harrisson, poet Charles Madge and filmmaker Humphrey Jennings. Collaborators included the critic William Empson, the photographer Humphrey Spender, the collagist Julian Trevelyan, the novelist G.B. Edwards, the later famous spiritualist medium Rosemary Brown, and the painters William Coldstream and Graham Bell. Run on a shoestring budget with money from their own pockets and the occasional philanthropic contribution or book advance, the project relied most on its network of volunteer correspondents.\n\nHarrisson had set up his base in a working-class street in the northern English industrial town of Bolton (known in M-O publications as \"Worktown\"), in order with his collaborators to \"systematically... record human activity in this industrial town\" (Madge & Harrisson, 1938:7) using a variety of observational methods. Meanwhile, Madge from his London home had started to form a group of fellow-poets, artists and film-makers under the name \"Mass-Observation\". The two teams began their collaboration in early 1937. \n\nAn important early focus was King Edward VIII's abdication in 1936 to marry divorcée Wallis Simpson, and the succession of George VI. Dissatisfied with the pronouncements of the newspapers as to the public mood, the project's founders initiated a nationwide effort to document the feelings of the populace about a historical event by collecting anecdotes, overheard comments, and \"man-in-the-street\" interviews on and around the coronation of King George VI and Queen Elizabeth on 12 May 1937.\n\nTheir first published report,\"May the Twelfth: Mass-Observation Day-Surveys 1937 \"by over two hundred observers\"\" was published in book form. The result tended to subvert the Government's efforts at image-making. The principal editors were Humphrey Jennings and Charles Madge, with the help of T. O. Beachcroft, Julian Blackburn, William Empson, Stuart Legg and Kathleen Raine. The 1987 reprint contains an Afterword by Professor David Pocock, director of the Tom Harrisson Mass-Observation Archive.\n\nIn August 1939 Mass-Observation invited members of the public to record and send them a day-to-day account of their lives in the form of a diary. No special instructions were given to these diarists so they vary greatly in their style, content and length. 480 people responded to this invitation and their diaries are now held in the Mass-Observation Archive.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Mass-Observation research was occasionally influential in shaping British public policy. In 1939 Mass-Observation publicly criticised the Ministry of Information's posters, which led to their being replaced with more appropriate ones. In addition, their study of saving habits was used by John Maynard Keynes successfully to argue for tax policy changes. During the war, there were also a few cases of Mass Observation (MO) doing research on commission for government authorities trying to shape recruiting and war propaganda: Mary Adams, for example, employed MO on commission for the Ministry of Information.\n\nMass-Observation has been criticised by some as an invasion of privacy. Participants were not only reporting on their own lives; they often commented on their neighbours and friends as well. Such an atmosphere of surveillance was in keeping with the rising culture of espionage, which dominated the Second World War, although Mass-Observation was an independent, not a government, effort aimed at education rather than manipulation of the public.\n\nMass-Observation had set out to turn the tools of anthropology used to study foreign cultures to study Britain's: to be \"The Science of Us.\" Criticism of the scientific validity focusing on the experimental parameters began fairly early, continued throughout its existence, and was a key element in its eventual demise. Because of the self-selecting nature of the observers, they did not represent a scientifically balanced cross-section of British society as a modern public opinion poll would. Although geographically and occupationally diverse, the participants tended to be middle-class, educated, literate, and left of centre.\n\nFollowing the war, and the departure of project founders Harrisson, Madge, and Jennings, research began to focus on the commercial habits of the country rather than the broader cultural research that characterised its first decade. This turn towards market research was formalised in 1949 when the project was incorporated as a private firm and, under new management, became registered as a market research limited company, Mass Observation (UK) Limited. Eventually the firm was merged with the advertising agency J.Walter Thompson’s UK research agency BMRB, to form MRB International, followed by full merger in the early 1990s.\n\nA re-evaluation of the tremendous resource of primary historical material that is the Mass-Observation archives led to a relaunch of the project in 1981. Today, housed at the University of Sussex, Mass-Observation continues to collect the thoughts of its panel of writers through regular questionnaires (known as directives) and is used by students, academics, media researchers and the public for its unique collection of material on everyday life in Britain.\n\nThe Mass-Observation archive of materials is currently housed in The Keep—a new archive housing East Sussex and Brighton and Hove councils' historical record.\n\n\nA number of publications are also available from the University of Sussex. The following selection of titles also gives some idea of the scope of Mass Observation's work:\n\n\nSince the archive was moved and re-established at Sussex University, a number of books based on the diaries commissioned by Mass-Observation in 1939 have been published. These include:\n\n\nSee also:\n\n\nFindings of Mass-Observation have also played a large part in such works of social history as Joe Moran's \"Queuing for Beginners.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46833807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46833807", "title": "Merit good", "text": "Merit good\n\nThe concept of a merit good introduced in economics by Richard Musgrave (1957, 1959) is a commodity which is judged that an individual or society should have on the basis of some concept of need, rather than ability and willingness to pay. The term is, perhaps, less often used today than it was in the 1960s to 1980s but the concept still lies behind many economic actions by governments which are not performed specifically for financial reasons or by supporting incomes (e.g. via tax rebates). Examples include the provision of food stamps to support nutrition, the delivery of health services to improve quality of life and reduce morbidity, subsidized housing and arguably education.\n\nIn many cases, merit goods provide services which should apply universally to everyone in a particular situation, a view that is close to the concept of primary goods found in work by philosopher John Rawls or discussions about social inclusion. On the supply side, it is sometimes suggested that there will be more support in society for implicit redistribution via the provision of certain kinds of goods and services, rather than explicit redistribution through income. Alternatively, it is sometimes suggested that society in general may be in a better position to determine what individuals need (such arguments are often criticised for being paternalistic, often by those who would like to reduce to a minimum economic activity by government). \n\nSometimes, merit and demerit goods are simply seen as an extension of the idea of externalities. A merit good may be described as a good that has positive externalities associated with it. Thus, an inoculation against a contagious disease may be seen as a merit good. This is because others who may not now catch the disease from the inoculated person also benefit.\n\nHowever, merit and demerit goods can be defined in a different way which makes it different from externalities. The essence of merit and demerit goods is to do with an information failure to the consumer. This arises because consumers do not perceive quite how good or bad the good is for them: either they do not have the right information or lack relevant information. With this definition, a merit good is defined as good that is better for a person than the person who may consume the good realises.\n\nOther possible rationales for treating some commodities as merit (or demerit) goods include public-goods aspects of a commodity, imposing community standards (prostitution, drugs, etc.), immaturity or incapacity, and addiction. A common element of all of these is recommending for or against some goods on a basis other than consumer choice. However, there is no reason why governments should not consult their populations on such issues as they increasingly do in a number of economic contexts (e.g., development planning by the World Bank or resource allocation in health systems using information on health-benefits).\n\nIn the case of education, it can be argued that those lacking education are incapable of making an informed choice about so many benefits of education, which would warrant compulsion (Musgrave, 1959, 14). In this case, the \"implementation\" of consumer sovereignty is the motivation, rather than rejection of consumer sovereignty.\n\nPublic Choice Theory suggests that good government policies are an under-supplied merit good in a democracy.\n\nA merit good can be defined as a good which would be under-consumed (and under-produced) in the free market economy. This is due to two main reasons:\n\n"}
{"id": "7265224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7265224", "title": "Ministry of Tourism (Quebec)", "text": "Ministry of Tourism (Quebec)\n\nThe Ministry of Tourism (in French: Ministère du Tourisme) is responsible for promoting tourism to the province of Quebec.\n\nThe current minister is Julie Boulet.\n\n"}
{"id": "164326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=164326", "title": "Nauru Bwiema", "text": "Nauru Bwiema\n\n\"Nauru Bwiema\" (\"Nauru, our homeland\" in Nauruan) is the national anthem of Nauru.\n\nThe words of the anthem were written by Margaret Hendrie. The music was composed by Laurence Henry Hicks.\n\nNauru adopted this anthem in 1968, when they became sovereign.\n\nNauru bwiema, ngabena ma auwe.\nMa dedaro ama bwe dogum, mo otata bet egom.\nAtsin ngago bwien okor, ama bagadugu\nEpoa ngabuna ri nan orre bet imur.\nAma memag ma nan epodan eredu won engiden,\nMiyan aema ngeiyin ouge:\nNauru eko dogin!\n\nNauru our homeland, the land we dearly love,\n<br>We all pray for you and we also praise your name.\n<br>Since long ago you have been the home of our great forefathers\n<br>And will be for generations yet to come.\n<br>We all join in together to honour your flag,\n<br>And we shall rejoice together and say:\n<br>Nauru for evermore!\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1555127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1555127", "title": "Official multilingualism", "text": "Official multilingualism\n\nOfficial multilingualism is the policy adopted by some states of recognizing multiple languages as official and producing all official documents, and handling all correspondence and official dealings, including court procedure, in these languages. It is distinct from personal multilingualism, the capacity of a person to speak several languages.\n\nAfghanistan uses Dari (or Afghan Persian) and Pashto as official languages. Many citizens are bilingual. These two languages account for 85% of Afghanis' native tongues.\n\nIn Belarus, Russian is far more common than Belarusian, and Section 17 of the Constitution designates both as official languages.\n\nThe official languages of Burundi are the local Kirundi language as well as the colonial French.\n\nCameroon is extremely diverse linguistically and uses English and French as official languages.\n\nIn Canada English and French have special legal status over other languages in Canada’s courts, parliament and administration. \nAt the provincial level, New Brunswick is the only official bilingual province, while Quebec is the only province where French is the sole official language. The remaining provinces have English as the only official language. In practice, all provinces, including Quebec, offer some bilingual services and some education in both official languages up to the high school level. English and French are official languages in all three territories (because they are federally administered). In addition, Inuktitut is also an official language in Nunavut, and nine aboriginal languages have official status in the Northwest Territories.\n\nOut of 120 languages spoken in the Central African Republic, French and the Ngbandi-based creole Sango are official.\n\nCitizens of Chad speak over 120 languages, and the standardized Chadian Arabic serves as the lingua franca with colonial language French also being official.\n\n\nIsland nation of Cyprus has had Greek and Turkish as its languages since the 1960 Constitution (Article 3, section 1). The usage of either language is complicated by the political dispute that lead to the creation of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus.\n\n\nIn Finland, Finnish and Swedish are both considered \"national languages\". Municipalities of Finland are divided into three categories: unilingual Swedish, unilingual Finnish or bilingual. Finnish is the maternal language of about 90% of the population, and the bilingual or swedophone population is concentrated to the coastal areas of Ostrobothnia and Southwest Finland. The autonomous province of Åland is officially unilingual (Swedish). Both Swedish and Finnish are compulsory school subjects.\n\nHong Kong is officially bilingual. Both English and Cantonese are official languages.\n\nThe Philippine constitution designates Filipino as the national language and – along with English – as official languages. Spanish was the national and official language of the country for more than three centuries under Spanish colonial rule, and became the lingua franca of the Philippines in the 19th and early 20th centuries. It remained, along with English, as a de facto official language until removed in 1973 by a constitutional change. After a few months it was re-designated an official language by presidential decree and remained official until 1987, when the present Constitution removed its official status. Spanish and Arabic are currently designated to be promoted on a voluntary and optional basis.\n\nSome people in native Tagalog areas are bilingual, while in non-Tagalog areas it is common to be multilingual in Filipino, English, and in one or more of the regional languages, or as in other cases in languages such as Spanish, Minnan (Hokkien), and Arabic due to factors such as ancestry and religion. Eleven regional languages are recognised by the government as auxiliary official languages in their respective regions, while 90+ other languages and dialects are spoken by various groups.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22614", "title": "Oscar Wilde", "text": "Oscar Wilde\n\nOscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills Wilde (16 October 185430 November 1900) was an Irish poet and playwright. After writing in different forms throughout the 1880s, he became one of London's most popular playwrights in the early 1890s. He is best remembered for his epigrams and plays, his novel \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\", and the circumstances of his imprisonment and early death.\n\nWilde's parents were successful Anglo-Irish intellectuals in Dublin. Their son became fluent in French and German early in life. At university, Wilde read Greats; he proved himself to be an outstanding classicist, first at Dublin, then at Oxford. He became known for his involvement in the rising philosophy of aestheticism, led by two of his tutors, Walter Pater and John Ruskin. After university, Wilde moved to London into fashionable cultural and social circles.\n\nAs a spokesman for aestheticism, he tried his hand at various literary activities: he published a book of poems, lectured in the United States and Canada on the new \"English Renaissance in Art\" and interior decoration, and then returned to London where he worked prolifically as a journalist. Known for his biting wit, flamboyant dress and glittering conversational skill, Wilde became one of the best-known personalities of his day. At the turn of the 1890s, he refined his ideas about the supremacy of art in a series of dialogues and essays, and incorporated themes of decadence, duplicity, and beauty into what would be his only novel, \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" (1890). The opportunity to construct aesthetic details precisely, and combine them with larger social themes, drew Wilde to write drama. He wrote \"Salome\" (1891) in French while in Paris but it was refused a licence for England due to an absolute prohibition on the portrayal of Biblical subjects on the English stage. Unperturbed, Wilde produced four society comedies in the early 1890s, which made him one of the most successful playwrights of late-Victorian London.\n\nAt the height of his fame and success, while \"The Importance of Being Earnest\" (1895) was still being performed in London, Wilde had the Marquess of Queensberry prosecuted for criminal libel. The Marquess was the father of Wilde's lover, Lord Alfred Douglas. The libel trial unearthed evidence that caused Wilde to drop his charges and led to his own arrest and trial for gross indecency with men. After two more trials he was convicted and sentenced to two years' hard labour, the maximum penalty, and was jailed from 1895 to 1897. During his last year in prison, he wrote \"De Profundis\" (published posthumously in 1905), a long letter which discusses his spiritual journey through his trials, forming a dark counterpoint to his earlier philosophy of pleasure. On his release, he left immediately for France, never to return to Ireland or Britain. There he wrote his last work, \"The Ballad of Reading Gaol\" (1898), a long poem commemorating the harsh rhythms of prison life. He died destitute in Paris at the age of 46.\n\nOscar Wilde was born at 21 Westland Row, Dublin (now home of the Oscar Wilde Centre, Trinity College), the second of three children born to Sir William Wilde and Jane Wilde, two years behind William (\"Willie\"). Wilde's mother had distant Italian ancestry, and under the pseudonym \"Speranza\" (the Italian word for 'hope'), wrote poetry for the revolutionary Young Irelanders in 1848; she was a lifelong Irish nationalist. She read the Young Irelanders' poetry to Oscar and Willie, inculcating a love of these poets in her sons. Lady Wilde's interest in the neo-classical revival showed in the paintings and busts of ancient Greece and Rome in her home.\n\nWilliam Wilde was Ireland's leading oto-ophthalmologic (ear and eye) surgeon and was knighted in 1864 for his services as medical adviser and assistant commissioner to the censuses of Ireland. He also wrote books about Irish archaeology and peasant folklore. A renowned philanthropist, his dispensary for the care of the city's poor at the rear of Trinity College, Dublin, was the forerunner of the Dublin Eye and Ear Hospital, now located at Adelaide Road. On his father's side Wilde was descended from a Dutchman, Colonel de Wilde, who went to Ireland with King William of Orange's invading army in 1690. On his mother's side Wilde's ancestors included a bricklayer from County Durham who emigrated to Ireland sometime in the 1770s.\n\nWilde was baptised as an infant in St. Mark's Church, Dublin, the local Church of Ireland (Anglican) church. When the church was closed, the records were moved to the nearby St. Ann's Church, Dawson Street. Davis Coakley references a second baptism by a Catholic priest, Father Prideaux Fox, who befriended Oscar's mother circa 1859. According to Fox's own testimony written by him years later in \"Donahoe's Magazine\" in 1905, Jane Wilde would visit his chapel in Glencree, County Wicklow for Mass and would take her sons with her. She then asked Father Fox to baptise her sons. Fox described it in this way:\n\"I am not sure if she ever became a Catholic herself but it was not long before she asked me to instruct two of her children, one of them being the future erratic genius, Oscar Wilde. After a few weeks I baptized these two children, Lady Wilde herself being present on the occasion.\" \nIn addition to his children with his wife, Sir William Wilde was the father of three children born out of wedlock before his marriage: Henry Wilson, born in 1838, and Emily and Mary Wilde, born in 1847 and 1849, respectively, of different maternity to Henry. Sir William acknowledged paternity of his illegitimate children and provided for their education, but they were reared by his relatives rather than by his wife or with his legitimate children.\n\nIn 1855, the family moved to No. 1 Merrion Square, where Wilde's sister, Isola, was born in 1857. The Wildes' new home was larger and, with both his parents' sociality and success, it soon became a \"unique medical and cultural milieu\". Guests at their salon included Sheridan Le Fanu, Charles Lever, George Petrie, Isaac Butt, William Rowan Hamilton and Samuel Ferguson.\n\nUntil he was nine, Oscar Wilde was educated at home, where a French and a German governess taught him their languages. He then attended Portora Royal School in Enniskillen, County Fermanagh from 1864 to 1871. Until his early twenties, Wilde summered at the villa, Moytura House, his father built in Cong, County Mayo. There the young Wilde and his brother Willie played with George Moore.\n\nIsola died aged nine of meningitis. Wilde's poem \"\" is written to her memory.\n\nSpeak gently, she can hear\nthe daisies grow\" \n\nWilde left Portora with a royal scholarship to read classics at Trinity College, Dublin, from 1871 to 1874, sharing rooms with his older brother Willie Wilde. Trinity, one of the leading classical schools, placed him with scholars such as R. Y. Tyrell, Arthur Palmer, Edward Dowden and his tutor, J. P. Mahaffy who inspired his interest in Greek literature. As a student Wilde worked with Mahaffy on the latter's book \"Social Life in Greece\". Wilde, despite later reservations, called Mahaffy \"my first and best teacher\" and \"the scholar who showed me how to love Greek things\". For his part, Mahaffy boasted of having created Wilde; later, he named him \"the only blot on my tutorship\".\n\nThe University Philosophical Society also provided an education, discussing intellectual and artistic subjects such as Rossetti and Swinburne weekly. Wilde quickly became an established member – the members' suggestion book for 1874 contains two pages of banter (sportingly) mocking Wilde's emergent aestheticism. He presented a paper titled \"Aesthetic Morality\". At Trinity, Wilde established himself as an outstanding student: he came first in his class in his first year, won a scholarship by competitive examination in his second, and then, in his finals, won the Berkeley Gold Medal, the University's highest academic award in Greek. He was encouraged to compete for a demyship to Magdalen College, Oxford – which he won easily, having already studied Greek for over nine years.\n\nAt Magdalen, he read Greats from 1874 to 1878, and from there he applied to join the Oxford Union, but failed to be elected.\n\nAttracted by its dress, secrecy, and ritual, Wilde petitioned the Apollo Masonic Lodge at Oxford, and was soon raised to the \"Sublime Degree of Master Mason\". During a resurgent interest in Freemasonry in his third year, he commented he \"would be awfully sorry to give it up if I secede from the Protestant Heresy\". Wilde's active involvement in Freemasonry lasted only for the time he spent at Oxford and his membership of the Apollo University Lodge lapsed after non-payment of subscriptions. He was deeply considering converting to Catholicism, discussing the possibility with clergy several times. In 1877, Wilde was left speechless after an audience with Pope Pius IX in Rome. He eagerly read Cardinal Newman's books, and became more serious in 1878, when he met the Reverend Sebastian Bowden, a priest in the Brompton Oratory who had received some high-profile converts. Neither his father, who threatened to cut off his funds, nor Mahaffy thought much of the plan; but mostly Wilde, the supreme individualist, balked at the last minute from pledging himself to any formal creed. On the appointed day of his baptism, Father Bowden received a bunch of altar lilies instead. Wilde retained a lifelong interest in Catholic theology and liturgy.\n\nWhile at Magdalen College, Wilde became particularly well known for his role in the aesthetic and decadent movements. He wore his hair long, openly scorned \"manly\" sports though he occasionally boxed, and decorated his rooms with peacock feathers, lilies, sunflowers, blue china and other \"objets d'art\", once remarking to friends whom he entertained lavishly, \"I find it harder and harder every day to live up to my blue china.\" The line quickly became famous, accepted as a slogan by aesthetes but used against them by critics who sensed in it a terrible vacuousness. Some elements disdained the aesthetes, but their languishing attitudes and showy costumes became a recognised pose. Wilde was once physically attacked by a group of four fellow students, and dealt with them single-handedly, surprising critics. By his third year Wilde had truly begun to create himself and his myth, and saw his learning developing in much larger ways than merely the prescribed texts. This attitude resulted in his being rusticated for one term, when he nonchalantly returned to college late from a trip to Greece with Prof. Mahaffy.\n\nWilde did not meet Walter Pater until his third year, but had been enthralled by his \"Studies in the History of the Renaissance\", published during Wilde's final year in Trinity. Pater argued that man's sensibility to beauty should be refined above all else, and that each moment should be felt to its fullest extent. Years later, in \"De Profundis\", Wilde called Pater's \"Studies...\" \"that book that has had such a strange influence over my life\". He learned tracts of the book by heart, and carried it with him on travels in later years. Pater gave Wilde his sense of almost flippant devotion to art, though it was John Ruskin who gave him a purpose for it. Ruskin despaired at the self-validating aestheticism of Pater, arguing that the importance of art lies in its potential for the betterment of society. Ruskin admired beauty, but believed it must be allied with, and applied to, moral good. When Wilde eagerly attended Ruskin's lecture series \"The Aesthetic and Mathematic Schools of Art in Florence\", he learned about aesthetics as simply the non-mathematical elements of painting. Despite being given to neither early rising nor manual labour, Wilde volunteered for Ruskin's project to convert a swampy country lane into a smart road neatly edged with flowers.\n\nWilde won the 1878 Newdigate Prize for his poem \"\", which reflected on his visit there the year before, and he duly read it at Encaenia. In November 1878, he graduated with a double first in his B.A. of Classical Moderations and Literae Humaniores (Greats). Wilde wrote to a friend, \"The dons are \" beyond words – the Bad Boy doing so well in the end!\"\n\nAfter graduation from Oxford, Wilde returned to Dublin, where he met again Florence Balcombe, a childhood sweetheart. She became engaged to Bram Stoker and they married in 1878. Wilde was disappointed but stoic: he wrote to her, remembering \"the two sweet years – the sweetest years of all my youth\" they had spent together. He also stated his intention to \"return to England, probably for good.\" This he did in 1878, only briefly visiting Ireland twice.\n\nUnsure of his next step, he wrote to various acquaintances enquiring about Classics positions at Oxford or Cambridge. \"The Rise of Historical Criticism\" was his submission for the Chancellor's Essay prize of 1879, which, though no longer a student, he was still eligible to enter. Its subject, \"Historical Criticism among the Ancients\" seemed ready-made for Wilde – with both his skill in composition and ancient learning – but he struggled to find his voice with the long, flat, scholarly style. Unusually, no prize was awarded that year. With the last of his inheritance from the sale of his father's houses, he set himself up as a bachelor in London. The 1881 British Census listed Wilde as a boarder at 1 (now 44) Tite Street, Chelsea, where Frank Miles, a society painter, was the head of the household. Wilde spent the next six years in London and Paris, and in the United States where he travelled to deliver lectures.\n\nHe had been publishing lyrics and poems in magazines since entering Trinity College, especially in \"Kottabos\" and the \"Dublin University Magazine\". In mid-1881, at 27 years old, \"Poems\" collected, revised and expanded his poetic efforts. The book was generally well received, and sold out its first print run of 750 copies, prompting further printings in 1882. It was bound in a rich, enamel, parchment cover (embossed with gilt blossom) and printed on hand-made Dutch paper; Wilde presented many copies to the dignitaries and writers who received him over the next few years. The Oxford Union condemned the book for alleged plagiarism in a tight vote. The librarian, who had requested the book for the library, returned the presentation copy to Wilde with a note of apology. Richard Ellmann argues that Wilde's poem \"\" was a sincere, though flamboyant, attempt to explain the dichotomies he saw in himself:\n\nTo drift with every passion till my soul<br>Is a stringed lute on which all winds can play\n\"Punch\" was less enthusiastic, \"The poet is Wilde, but his poetry's tame\" was their verdict.\n\nAestheticism was sufficiently in vogue to be caricatured by Gilbert and Sullivan in \"Patience\" (1881). Richard D'Oyly Carte, an English impresario, invited Wilde to make a lecture tour of North America, simultaneously priming the pump for the US tour of \"Patience\" and selling this most charming aesthete to the American public. Wilde journeyed on the SS \"Arizona\", arriving 2 January 1882, and disembarking the following day. Originally planned to last four months, it continued for almost a year due to the commercial success. Wilde sought to transpose the beauty he saw in art into daily life. This was a practical as well as philosophical project: in Oxford he had surrounded himself with blue china and lilies, and now one of his lectures was on interior design.\n\nWhen asked to explain reports that he had paraded down Piccadilly in London carrying a lily, long hair flowing, Wilde replied, \"It's not whether I did it or not that's important, but whether people believed I did it\". Wilde believed that the artist should hold forth higher ideals, and that pleasure and beauty would replace utilitarian ethics.\n\nWilde and aestheticism were both mercilessly caricatured and criticised in the press; the \"Springfield Republican\", for instance, commented on Wilde's behaviour during his visit to Boston to lecture on aestheticism, suggesting that Wilde's conduct was more a bid for notoriety rather than devotion to beauty and the aesthetic. T. W. Higginson, a cleric and abolitionist, wrote in \"Unmanly Manhood\" of his general concern that Wilde, \"whose only distinction is that he has written a thin volume of very mediocre verse\", would improperly influence the behaviour of men and women.\n\nAccording to biographer Michèle Mendelssohn, Wilde was the subject of anti-Irish caricature and was portrayed as a monkey, a blackface performer and a Christy minstrel throughout his career. \"\"Harper’s Weekly\" put a sunflower-worshipping monkey dressed as Wilde on the front of the January 1882 issue. The magazine didn’t let its reputation for quality impede its expression of what are now considered odious ethnic and racial ideologies. The drawing stimulated other American maligners and, in England, had a full page reprint in the \"Lady’s Pictorial\". ... When the \"National Republican\" discussed Wilde, it was to explain 'a few items as to the animal’s pedigree.' And on 22 January 1882 the Washington Post illustrated the Wild Man of Borneo alongside Oscar Wilde of England and asked 'How far is it from this to this?' \" Though his press reception was hostile, Wilde was well received in diverse settings across America; he drank whiskey with miners in Leadville, Colorado, and was fêted at the most fashionable salons in many cities he visited.\n\nHis earnings, plus expected income from \"The Duchess of Padua\", allowed him to move to Paris between February and mid-May 1883. While there he met Robert Sherard, whom he entertained constantly. \"We are dining on the Duchess tonight\", Wilde would declare before taking him to an expensive restaurant. In August he briefly returned to New York for the production of \"Vera\", his first play, after it was turned down in London. He reportedly entertained the other passengers with \"\", about the rise and fall of empires. E. C. Stedman, in \"Victorian Poets\" describes this \"lyric to England\" as \"manly verse – a poetic and eloquent invocation\". The play was initially well received by the audience, but when the critics wrote lukewarm reviews attendance fell sharply and the play closed a week after it had opened.\n\nWilde was left to return to England and lecturing on topics including \"Personal Impressions of America\", \"The Value of Art in Modern Life\", and \"Dress\".\n\nIn London, he had been introduced in 1881 to Constance Lloyd, daughter of Horace Lloyd, a wealthy Queen's Counsel. She happened to be visiting Dublin in 1884, when Wilde was lecturing at the Gaiety Theatre. He proposed to her, and they married on 29 May 1884 at the Anglican St James's Church, Paddington in London. Constance's annual allowance of £250 was generous for a young woman (equivalent to about £ in current value), but the Wildes had relatively luxurious tastes, and they had preached to others for so long on the subject of design that people expected their home to set new standards. No. 16, Tite Street was duly renovated in seven months at considerable expense. The couple had two sons, Cyril (1885) and Vyvyan (1886). Wilde became the sole literary signatory of George Bernard Shaw's petition for a pardon of the anarchists arrested (and later executed) after the Haymarket massacre in Chicago in 1886.\n\nRobert Ross had read Wilde's poems before they met, and was unrestrained by the Victorian prohibition against homosexuality, even to the extent of estranging himself from his family. By Richard Ellmann's account, he was a precocious seventeen-year-old who \"so young and yet so knowing, was determined to seduce Wilde\". According to Daniel Mendelsohn, Wilde, who had long alluded to Greek love, was \"initiated into homosexual sex\" by Ross, while his \"marriage had begun to unravel after his wife's second pregnancy, which left him physically repelled\".\n\nCriticism over artistic matters in \"The Pall Mall Gazette\" provoked a letter in self-defence, and soon Wilde was a contributor to that and other journals during 1885–87. He enjoyed reviewing and journalism; the form suited his style. He could organise and share his views on art, literature and life, yet in a format less tedious than lecturing. Buoyed up, his reviews were largely chatty and positive. Wilde, like his parents before him, also supported the cause of Irish Nationalism. When Charles Stewart Parnell was falsely accused of inciting murder Wilde wrote a series of astute columns defending him in the \"Daily Chronicle\".\n\nHis flair, having previously only been put into socialising, suited journalism and did not go unnoticed. With his youth nearly over, and a family to support, in mid-1887 Wilde became the editor of \"The Lady's World\" magazine, his name prominently appearing on the cover. He promptly renamed it \"The Woman's World\" and raised its tone, adding serious articles on parenting, culture, and politics, keeping discussions of fashion and arts. Two pieces of fiction were usually included, one to be read to children, the other for the ladies themselves. Wilde worked hard to solicit good contributions from his wide artistic acquaintance, including those of Lady Wilde and his wife Constance, while his own \"Literary and Other Notes\" were themselves popular and amusing.\n\nThe initial vigour and excitement he brought to the job began to fade as administration, commuting and office life became tedious. At the same time as Wilde's interest flagged, the publishers became concerned anew about circulation: sales, at the relatively high price of one shilling, remained low. Increasingly sending instructions to the magazine by letter, he began a new period of creative work and his own column appeared less regularly. In October 1889, Wilde had finally found his voice in prose and, at the end of the second volume, Wilde left \"The Woman's World\". The magazine outlasted him by one issue.\n\nIf Wilde's period at the helm of the magazine was a mixed success from an organizational point of view, one can also argue that it played a pivotal role in his development as a writer and facilitated his ascent to fame. Whilst Wilde the journalist supplied articles under the guidance of his editors, Wilde the editor is forced to learn to manipulate the literary marketplace on his own terms.\n\nWilde published \"The Happy Prince and Other Tales\" in 1888, and had been regularly writing fairy stories for magazines. In 1891 he published two more collections, \"Lord Arthur Savile's Crime and Other Stories\", and in September \"A House of Pomegranates\" was dedicated \"To Constance Mary Wilde\". \"The Portrait of Mr. W. H.\", which Wilde had begun in 1887, was first published in \"Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine\" in July 1889. It is a short story, which reports a conversation, in which the theory that Shakespeare's sonnets were written out of the poet's love of the boy actor \"Willie Hughes\", is advanced, retracted, and then propounded again. The only evidence for this is two supposed puns within the sonnets themselves.\n\nThe anonymous narrator is at first sceptical, then believing, finally flirtatious with the reader: he concludes that \"there is really a great deal to be said of the Willie Hughes theory of Shakespeare's sonnets.\" By the end fact and fiction have melded together. Arthur Ransome wrote that Wilde \"read something of himself into Shakespeare's sonnets\" and became fascinated with the \"Willie Hughes theory\" despite the lack of biographical evidence for the historical William Hughes' existence. Instead of writing a short but serious essay on the question, Wilde tossed the theory amongst the three characters of the story, allowing it to unfold as background to the plot. The story thus is an early masterpiece of Wilde's combing many elements that interested him: conversation, literature and the idea that to shed oneself of an idea one must first convince another of its truth. Ransome concludes that Wilde succeeds precisely because the literary criticism is unveiled with such a deft touch.\n\nThough containing nothing but \"special pleading\", it would not, he says \"be possible to build an airier castle in Spain than this of the imaginary William Hughes\" we continue listening nonetheless to be charmed by the telling. \"You must believe in Willie Hughes,\" Wilde told an acquaintance, \"I almost do, myself.\"\n\nWilde, having tired of journalism, had been busy setting out his aesthetic ideas more fully in a series of longer prose pieces which were published in the major literary-intellectual journals of the day. In January 1889, \"The Decay of Lying: A Dialogue\" appeared in \"The Nineteenth Century\", and \"Pen, Pencil and Poison\", a satirical biography of Thomas Griffiths Wainewright, in \"The Fortnightly Review\", edited by Wilde's friend Frank Harris. Two of Wilde's four writings on aesthetics are dialogues: though Wilde had evolved professionally from lecturer to writer, he retained an oral tradition of sorts. Having always excelled as a wit and raconteur, he often composed by assembling phrases, \"bons mots\" and witticisms into a longer, cohesive work.\n\nWilde was concerned about the effect of moralising on art; he believed in art's redemptive, developmental powers: \"Art is individualism, and individualism is a disturbing and disintegrating force. There lies its immense value. For what it seeks is to disturb monotony of type, slavery of custom, tyranny of habit, and the reduction of man to the level of a machine.\" In his only political text, \"The Soul of Man Under Socialism\", he argued political conditions should establish this primacy - private property should be abolished, and cooperation should be substituted for competition. At the same time, he stressed that the government most amenable to artists was no government at all. Wilde envisioned a society where mechanisation has freed human effort from the burden of necessity, effort which can instead be expended on artistic creation. George Orwell summarised, \"In effect, the world will be populated by artists, each striving after perfection in the way that seems best to him.\"\n\nThis point of view did not align him with the Fabians, intellectual socialists who advocated using state apparatus to change social conditions, nor did it endear him to the monied classes whom he had previously entertained. Hesketh Pearson, introducing a collection of Wilde's essays in 1950, remarked how \"The Soul of Man Under Socialism\" had been an inspirational text for revolutionaries in Tsarist Russia but laments that in the Stalinist era \"it is doubtful whether there are any uninspected places in which it could now be hidden\".\n\nWilde considered including this pamphlet and The Portrait of Mr. W.H., his essay-story on Shakespeare's sonnets, in a new anthology in 1891, but eventually decided to limit it to purely aesthetic subjects. \"Intentions\" packaged revisions of four essays: \"The Decay of Lying\", \"Pen, Pencil and Poison\", \"The Truth of Masks\" (first published 1885), and \"The Critic as Artist\" in two parts. For Pearson the biographer, the essays and dialogues exhibit every aspect of Wilde's genius and character: wit, romancer, talker, lecturer, humanist and scholar and concludes that \"no other productions of his have as varied an appeal\". 1891 turned out to be Wilde's \"annus mirabilis\", apart from his three collections he also produced his only novel.\n\nThe first version of \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" was published as the lead story in the July 1890 edition of \"Lippincott's Monthly Magazine\", along with five others. The story begins with a man painting a picture of Gray. When Gray, who has a \"face like ivory and rose leaves\", sees his finished portrait, he breaks down. Distraught that his beauty will fade while the portrait stays beautiful, he inadvertently makes a Faustian bargain in which only the painted image grows old while he stays beautiful and young. For Wilde, the purpose of art would be to guide life as if beauty alone were its object. As Gray's portrait allows him to escape the corporeal ravages of his hedonism, Wilde sought to juxtapose the beauty he saw in art with daily life.\n\nReviewers immediately criticised the novel's decadence and homosexual allusions; \"The Daily Chronicle\" for example, called it \"unclean\", \"poisonous\", and \"heavy with the mephitic odours of moral and spiritual putrefaction\". Wilde vigorously responded, writing to the editor of the \"Scots Observer\", in which he clarified his stance on ethics and aesthetics in art – \"If a work of art is rich and vital and complete, those who have artistic instincts will see its beauty and those to whom ethics appeal more strongly will see its moral lesson.\" He nevertheless revised it extensively for book publication in 1891: six new chapters were added, some overtly decadent passages and homo-eroticism excised, and a preface was included consisting of twenty two epigrams, such as \"Books are well written, or badly written. That is all.\"\n\nContemporary reviewers and modern critics have postulated numerous possible sources of the story, a search Jershua McCormack argues is futile because Wilde \"has tapped a root of Western folklore so deep and ubiquitous that the story has escaped its origins and returned to the oral tradition.\" Wilde claimed the plot was \"an idea that is as old as the history of literature but to which I have given a new form\". Modern critic Robin McKie considered the novel to be technically mediocre, saying that the conceit of the plot had guaranteed its fame, but the device is never pushed to its full.\n\nThe 1891 census records the Wildes' residence at 16 Tite Street, where he lived with his wife Constance and two sons. Wilde though, not content with being better known than ever in London, returned to Paris in October 1891, this time as a respected writer. He was received at the \"salons littéraires\", including the famous \"mardis\" of Stéphane Mallarmé, a renowned symbolist poet of the time. Wilde's two plays during the 1880s, \"Vera; or, The Nihilists\" and \"The Duchess of Padua\", had not met with much success. He had continued his interest in the theatre and now, after finding his voice in prose, his thoughts turned again to the dramatic form as the biblical iconography of Salome filled his mind. One evening, after discussing depictions of Salome throughout history, he returned to his hotel and noticed a blank copybook lying on the desk, and it occurred to him to write in it what he had been saying. The result was a new play, \"Salomé\", written rapidly and in French.\n\nA tragedy, it tells the story of Salome, the stepdaughter of the tetrarch Herod Antipas, who, to her stepfather's dismay but mother's delight, requests the head of Jokanaan (John the Baptist) on a silver platter as a reward for dancing the Dance of the Seven Veils. When Wilde returned to London just before Christmas the \"Paris Echo\" referred to him as \"le great event\" of the season. Rehearsals of the play, starring Sarah Bernhardt, began but the play was refused a licence by the Lord Chamberlain, since it depicted biblical characters. \"Salome\" was published jointly in Paris and London in 1893, but was not performed until 1896 in Paris, during Wilde's later incarceration.\n\nWilde, who had first set out to irritate Victorian society with his dress and talking points, then outrage it with \"Dorian Gray\", his novel of vice hidden beneath art, finally found a way to critique society on its own terms. \"Lady Windermere's Fan\" was first performed on 20 February 1892 at St James's Theatre, packed with the cream of society. On the surface a witty comedy, there is subtle subversion underneath: \"it concludes with collusive concealment rather than collective disclosure\". The audience, like Lady Windermere, are forced to soften harsh social codes in favour of a more nuanced view. The play was enormously popular, touring the country for months, but largely trashed by conservative critics.\nIt was followed by \"A Woman of No Importance\" in 1893, another Victorian comedy, revolving around the spectre of illegitimate births, mistaken identities and late revelations. Wilde was commissioned to write two more plays and \"An Ideal Husband\", written in 1894, followed in January 1895.\n\nPeter Raby said these essentially English plays were well-pitched, \"Wilde, with one eye on the dramatic genius of Ibsen, and the other on the commercial competition in London's West End, targeted his audience with adroit precision\".\n\nIn mid-1891 Lionel Johnson introduced Wilde to Lord Alfred Douglas, Johnson's cousin and an undergraduate at Oxford at the time. Known to his family and friends as \"Bosie\", he was a handsome and spoilt young man. An intimate friendship sprang up between Wilde and Douglas and by 1893 Wilde was infatuated with Douglas and they consorted together regularly in a tempestuous affair. If Wilde was relatively indiscreet, even flamboyant, in the way he acted, Douglas was reckless in public. Wilde, who was earning up to £100 a week from his plays (his salary at \"The Woman's World\" had been £6), indulged Douglas's every whim: material, artistic or sexual.\n\nDouglas soon dragged Wilde into the Victorian underground of gay prostitution and Wilde was introduced to a series of young working-class male prostitutes from 1892 onwards by Alfred Taylor. These infrequent rendezvous usually took the same form: Wilde would meet the boy, offer him gifts, dine him privately and then take him to a hotel room. Unlike Wilde's idealised, pederastic relations with Ross, John Gray, and Douglas, all of whom remained part of his aesthetic circle, these consorts were uneducated and knew nothing of literature. Soon his public and private lives had become sharply divided; in \"De Profundis\" he wrote to Douglas that \"It was like feasting with panthers; the danger was half the excitement... I did not know that when they were to strike at me it was to be at another's piping and at another's pay.\"\n\nDouglas and some Oxford friends founded a journal, \"The Chameleon\", to which Wilde \"sent a page of paradoxes originally destined for the \"Saturday Review\"\". \"\" was to come under attack six months later at Wilde's trial, where he was forced to defend the magazine to which he had sent his work. In any case, it became unique: \"The Chameleon\" was not published again.\n\nLord Alfred's father, the Marquess of Queensberry, was known for his outspoken atheism, brutish manner and creation of the modern rules of boxing. Queensberry, who feuded regularly with his son, confronted Wilde and Lord Alfred about the nature of their relationship several times, but Wilde was able to mollify him. In June 1894, he called on Wilde at 16 Tite Street, without an appointment, and clarified his stance:\n\"I do not say that you are it, but you look it, and pose at it, which is just as bad. And if I catch you and my son again in any public restaurant I will thrash you\" to which Wilde responded: \"I don't know what the Queensberry rules are, but the Oscar Wilde rule is to shoot on sight\". His account in \"De Profundis\" was less triumphant: \"It was when, in my library at Tite Street, waving his small hands in the air in epileptic fury, your father... stood uttering every foul word his foul mind could think of, and screaming the loathsome threats he afterwards with such cunning carried out\". Queensberry only described the scene once, saying Wilde had \"shown him the white feather\", meaning he had acted in a cowardly way. Though trying to remain calm, Wilde saw that he was becoming ensnared in a brutal family quarrel. He did not wish to bear Queensberry's insults, but he knew to confront him could lead to disaster were his liaisons disclosed publicly.\n\nWilde's final play again returns to the theme of switched identities: the play's two protagonists engage in \"bunburying\" (the maintenance of alternative personas in the town and country) which allows them to escape Victorian social mores. \"Earnest\" is even lighter in tone than Wilde's earlier comedies. While their characters often rise to serious themes in moments of crisis, \"Earnest\" lacks the by-now stock Wildean characters: there is no \"woman with a past\", the principals are neither villainous nor cunning, simply idle cultivés, and the idealistic young women are not that innocent. Mostly set in drawing rooms and almost completely lacking in action or violence, \"Earnest\" lacks the self-conscious decadence found in \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" and \"Salome\".\n\nThe play, now considered Wilde's masterpiece, was rapidly written in Wilde's artistic maturity in late 1894. It was first performed on 14 February 1895, at St James's Theatre in London, Wilde's second collaboration with George Alexander, the actor-manager. Both author and producer assiduously revised, prepared and rehearsed every line, scene and setting in the months before the premiere, creating a carefully constructed representation of late-Victorian society, yet simultaneously mocking it. During rehearsal Alexander requested that Wilde shorten the play from four acts to three, which the author did. Premieres at St James's seemed like \"brilliant parties\", and the opening of \"The Importance of Being Earnest\" was no exception. Allan Aynesworth (who played Algernon) recalled to Hesketh Pearson, \"In my fifty-three years of acting, I never remember a greater triumph than [that] first night.\" \"Earnest's\" immediate reception as Wilde's best work to date finally crystallised his fame into a solid artistic reputation. \"The Importance of Being Earnest\" remains his most popular play.\n\nWilde's professional success was mirrored by an escalation in his feud with Queensberry. Queensberry had planned to insult Wilde publicly by throwing a bouquet of rotting vegetables onto the stage; Wilde was tipped off and had Queensberry barred from entering the theatre. Fifteen weeks later Wilde was in prison.\n\nOn 18 February 1895, the Marquess left his calling card at Wilde's club, the Albemarle, inscribed: \"For Oscar Wilde, posing somdomite\". Wilde, encouraged by Douglas and against the advice of his friends, initiated a private prosecution against Queensberry for libel, since the note amounted to a public accusation that Wilde had committed the crime of sodomy.\n\nQueensberry was arrested for criminal libel; a charge carrying a possible sentence of up to two years in prison. Under the 1843 Libel Act, Queensberry could avoid conviction for libel only by demonstrating that his accusation was in fact true, and furthermore that there was some \"public benefit\" to having made the accusation openly. Queensberry's lawyers thus hired private detectives to find evidence of Wilde's homosexual liaisons.\n\nWilde's friends had advised him against the prosecution at a \"Saturday Review\" meeting at the Café Royal on 24 March 1895; Frank Harris warned him that \"they are going to prove sodomy against you\" and advised him to flee to France. Wilde and Douglas walked out in a huff, Wilde saying \"it is at such moments as these that one sees who are one's true friends\". The scene was witnessed by George Bernard Shaw who recalled it to Arthur Ransome a day or so before Ransome's trial for libelling Douglas in 1913. To Ransome it confirmed what he had said in his 1912 book on Wilde; that Douglas's rivalry for Wilde with Robbie Ross and his arguments with his father had resulted in Wilde's public disaster; as Wilde wrote in \"De Profundis\". Douglas lost his case. Shaw included an account of the argument between Harris, Douglas and Wilde in the preface to his play \"The Dark Lady of the Sonnets\".\n\nThe libel trial became a \"cause célèbre\" as salacious details of Wilde's private life with Taylor and Douglas began to appear in the press. A team of private detectives had directed Queensberry's lawyers, led by Edward Carson QC, to the world of the Victorian underground. Wilde's association with blackmailers and male prostitutes, cross-dressers and homosexual brothels was recorded, and various persons involved were interviewed, some being coerced to appear as witnesses since they too were accomplices to the crimes of which Wilde was accused.\nThe trial opened on 3 April 1895 amid scenes of near hysteria both in the press and the public galleries. The extent of the evidence massed against Wilde forced him to declare meekly, \"I am the prosecutor in this case\". Wilde's lawyer, Sir Edward George Clarke, opened the case by pre-emptively asking Wilde about two suggestive letters Wilde had written to Douglas, which the defence had in its possession. He characterised the first as a \"prose sonnet\" and admitted that the \"poetical language\" might seem strange to the court but claimed its intent was innocent. Wilde stated that the letters had been obtained by blackmailers who had attempted to extort money from him, but he had refused, suggesting they should take the £60 (equal to £ today) offered, \"unusual for a prose piece of that length\". He claimed to regard the letters as works of art rather than something of which to be ashamed.\n\nCarson, a fellow Dubliner who had attended Trinity College, Dublin at the same time as Wilde, cross-examined Wilde on how he perceived the moral content of his works. Wilde replied with characteristic wit and flippancy, claiming that works of art are not capable of being moral or immoral but only well or poorly made, and that only \"brutes and illiterates,\" whose views on art \"are incalculably stupid\", would make such judgements about art. Carson, a leading barrister, diverged from the normal practice of asking closed questions. Carson pressed Wilde on each topic from every angle, squeezing out nuances of meaning from Wilde's answers, removing them from their aesthetic context and portraying Wilde as evasive and decadent. While Wilde won the most laughs from the court, Carson scored the most legal points. To undermine Wilde's credibility, and to justify Queensberry's description of Wilde as a \"posing somdomite\", Carson drew from the witness an admission of his capacity for \"posing\", by demonstrating that he had lied about his age on oath. Playing on this, he returned to the topic throughout his cross-examination. Carson also tried to justify Queensberry’s characterization by quoting from Wilde’s novel, \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\", referring in particular to a scene in the second chapter, in which Lord Henry Wotton explains his decadent philosophy to Dorian, an “innocent young man”, in Carson’s words.\n\nCarson then moved to the factual evidence and questioned Wilde about his friendships with younger, lower-class men. Wilde admitted being on a first-name basis and lavishing gifts upon them, but insisted that nothing untoward had occurred and that the men were merely good friends of his. Carson repeatedly pointed out the unusual nature of these relationships and insinuated that the men were prostitutes. Wilde replied that he did not believe in social barriers, and simply enjoyed the society of young men. Then Carson asked Wilde directly whether he had ever kissed a certain servant boy, Wilde responded, \"Oh, dear no. He was a particularly plain boy – unfortunately ugly – I pitied him for it.\" Carson pressed him on the answer, repeatedly asking why the boy's ugliness was relevant. Wilde hesitated, then for the first time became flustered: \"You sting me and insult me and try to unnerve me; and at times one says things flippantly when one ought to speak more seriously.\"\n\nIn his opening speech for the defence, Carson announced that he had located several male prostitutes who were to testify that they had had sex with Wilde. On the advice of his lawyers, Wilde dropped the prosecution. Queensberry was found not guilty, as the court declared that his accusation that Wilde was \"posing as a Somdomite\" was justified, \"true in substance and in fact.\" Under the Libel Act 1843, Queensberry's acquittal rendered Wilde legally liable for the considerable expenses Queensberry had incurred in his defence, which left Wilde bankrupt.\n\nAfter Wilde left the court, a warrant for his arrest was applied for on charges of sodomy and gross indecency. Robbie Ross found Wilde at the Cadogan Hotel, Knightsbridge, with Reginald Turner; both men advised Wilde to go at once to Dover and try to get a boat to France; his mother advised him to stay and fight. Wilde, lapsing into inaction, could only say, \"The train has gone. It's too late.\" On 6 April 1895, Wilde was arrested for \"gross indecency\" under Section 11 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885, a term meaning homosexual acts not amounting to buggery (an offence under a separate statute). At Wilde's instruction, Ross and Wilde's butler forced their way into the bedroom and library of 16 Tite Street, packing some personal effects, manuscripts, and letters. Wilde was then imprisoned on remand at Holloway where he received daily visits from Douglas.\nEvents moved quickly and his prosecution opened on 26 April 1895, before Mr Justice Charles. Wilde pleaded not guilty. He had already begged Douglas to leave London for Paris, but Douglas complained bitterly, even wanting to give evidence; he was pressed to go and soon fled to the Hotel du Monde. Fearing persecution, Ross and many others also left the United Kingdom during this time. Under cross examination Wilde was at first hesitant, then spoke eloquently:\n\nThis response was counter-productive in a legal sense as it only served to reinforce the charges of homosexual behaviour.\nThe trial ended with the jury unable to reach a verdict. Wilde's counsel, Sir Edward Clarke, was finally able to get a magistrate to allow Wilde and his friends to post bail. The Reverend Stewart Headlam put up most of the £5,000 surety required by the court, having disagreed with Wilde's treatment by the press and the courts. Wilde was freed from Holloway and, shunning attention, went into hiding at the house of Ernest and Ada Leverson, two of his firm friends. Edward Carson approached Frank Lockwood QC, the Solicitor General and asked \"Can we not let up on the fellow now?\" Lockwood answered that he would like to do so, but feared that the case had become too politicised to be dropped.\n\nThe final trial was presided over by Mr Justice Wills. On 25 May 1895 Wilde and Alfred Taylor were convicted of gross indecency and sentenced to two years' hard labour. The judge described the sentence, the maximum allowed, as \"totally inadequate for a case such as this,\" and that the case was \"the worst case I have ever tried\". Wilde's response \"And I? May I say nothing, my Lord?\" was drowned out in cries of \"Shame\" in the courtroom.\n\nWilde was incarcerated from 25 May 1895 to 18 May 1897.\n\nHe first entered Newgate Prison in London for processing, then was moved to Pentonville Prison, where the \"hard labour\" to which he had been sentenced consisted of many hours of walking a treadmill and picking oakum (separating the fibres in scraps of old navy ropes), and where prisoners were allowed to read only the Bible and \"The Pilgrim's Progress\".\n\nA few months later he was moved to Wandsworth Prison in London. Inmates there also followed the regimen of \"hard labour, hard fare and a hard bed\", which wore harshly on Wilde's delicate health. In November he collapsed during chapel from illness and hunger. His right ear drum was ruptured in the fall, an injury that later contributed to his death. He spent two months in the infirmary.\n\nRichard B. Haldane, the Liberal MP and reformer, visited Wilde and had him transferred in November to Reading Gaol, west of London on 23 November 1895. The transfer itself was the lowest point of his incarceration, as a crowd jeered and spat at him on the railway platform. He spent the remainder of his sentence there, addressed and identified only by \"C33\" – the occupant of the third cell on the third floor of C ward.\n\nAbout five months after Wilde arrived at Reading Gaol, Charles Thomas Wooldridge, a trooper in the Royal Horse Guards, was brought to Reading to await his trial for murdering his wife on 29 March 1896; on 17 June Wooldridge was sentenced to death and returned to Reading for his execution, which took place on Tuesday, 7 July 1896 – the first hanging at Reading in 18 years. From Wooldridge's hanging, Wilde later wrote \"The Ballad of Reading Gaol\".\n\nWilde was not, at first, even allowed paper and pen but Haldane eventually succeeded in allowing access to books and writing materials. Wilde requested, among others: the Bible in French; Italian and German grammars; some Ancient Greek texts, Dante's \"Divine Comedy\", Joris-Karl Huysmans's new French novel about Christian redemption \"En Route\", and essays by St Augustine, Cardinal Newman and Walter Pater.\n\nBetween January and March 1897 Wilde wrote a 50,000-word letter to Douglas. He was not allowed to send it, but was permitted to take it with him when released from prison. In reflective mode, Wilde coldly examines his career to date, how he had been a colourful \"agent provocateur\" in Victorian society, his art, like his paradoxes, seeking to subvert as well as sparkle. His own estimation of himself was: one who \"stood in symbolic relations to the art and culture of my age\". It was from these heights that his life with Douglas began, and Wilde examines that particularly closely, repudiating him for what Wilde finally sees as his arrogance and vanity: he had not forgotten Douglas' remark, when he was ill, \"When you are not on your pedestal you are not interesting.\" Wilde blamed himself, though, for the ethical degradation of character that he allowed Douglas to bring about in him and took responsibility for his own fall, \"I am here for having tried to put your father in prison.\" The first half concludes with Wilde forgiving Douglas, for his own sake as much as Douglas's. The second half of the letter traces Wilde's spiritual journey of redemption and fulfilment through his prison reading. He realised that his ordeal had filled his soul with the fruit of experience, however bitter it tasted at the time.\nWilde was released from prison on 19 May 1897 and sailed that evening for Dieppe, France. He never returned to the UK.\n\nOn his release, he gave the manuscript to Ross, who may or may not have carried out Wilde's instructions to send a copy to Douglas (who later denied having received it). \"De Profundis\" was partially published in 1905; its complete and correct publication first occurred in 1962 in \"The Letters of Oscar Wilde\".\n\nThough Wilde's health had suffered greatly from the harshness and diet of prison, he had a feeling of spiritual renewal. He immediately wrote to the Society of Jesus requesting a six-month Catholic retreat; when the request was denied, Wilde wept. \"I intend to be received into the Catholic Church before long\", Wilde told a journalist who asked about his religious intentions.\n\nHe spent his last three years in impoverished exile. He took the name \"Sebastian Melmoth\", after Saint Sebastian, and the titular character of \"Melmoth the Wanderer\" (a Gothic novel by Charles Maturin, Wilde's great-uncle). Wilde wrote two long letters to the editor of the \"Daily Chronicle\", describing the brutal conditions of English prisons and advocating penal reform. His discussion of the dismissal of Warder Martin for giving biscuits to an anaemic child prisoner repeated the themes of the corruption and degeneration of punishment that he had earlier outlined in \"The Soul of Man under Socialism\".\n\nWilde spent mid-1897 with Robert Ross in the seaside village of Berneval-le-Grand in northern France, where he wrote \"The Ballad of Reading Gaol\", narrating the execution of Charles Thomas Wooldridge, who murdered his wife in a rage at her infidelity. It moves from an objective story-telling to symbolic identification with the prisoners as a whole. No attempt is made to assess the justice of the laws which convicted them, but rather the poem highlights the brutalisation of the punishment that all convicts share. Wilde juxtaposes the executed man and himself with the line \"Yet each man kills the thing he loves\". Wilde too was separated from his wife and sons. He adopted the proletarian ballad form, and the author was credited as \"C33\", Wilde's cell number in Reading Gaol. He suggested that it be published in \"Reynolds' Magazine\", \"because it circulates widely among the criminal classes – to which I now belong – for once I will be read by my peers – a new experience for me\". It was an immediate roaring commercial success, going through seven editions in less than two years, only after which \"[Oscar Wilde]\" was added to the title page, though many in literary circles had known Wilde to be the author. It brought him a small amount of money.\n\nAlthough Douglas had been the cause of his misfortunes, he and Wilde were reunited in August 1897 at Rouen. This meeting was disapproved of by the friends and families of both men. Constance Wilde was already refusing to meet Wilde or allow him to see their sons, though she sent him money – a meagre three pounds a week. During the latter part of 1897, Wilde and Douglas lived together near Naples for a few months until they were separated by their families under the threat of cutting off all funds.\n\nWilde's final address was at the dingy Hôtel d'Alsace (now known as L'Hôtel), on rue des Beaux-Arts in Saint-Germain-des-Prés, Paris. \"This poverty really breaks one's heart: it is so \"sale\" [filthy], so utterly depressing, so hopeless. Pray do what you can\" he wrote to his publisher. He corrected and published \"An Ideal Husband\" and \"The Importance of Being Earnest\", the proofs of which, according to Ellmann, show a man \"very much in command of himself and of the play\", but he refused to write anything else: \"I can write, but have lost the joy of writing\".\n\nHe wandered the boulevards alone, and spent what little money he had on alcohol. A series of embarrassing encounters with English visitors, or Frenchmen he had known in better days, drowned his spirit. Soon Wilde was sufficiently confined to his hotel to joke, on one of his final trips outside, \"My wallpaper and I are fighting a duel to the death. One of us has got to go.\" On 12 October 1900 he sent a telegram to Ross: \"Terribly weak. Please come.\" His moods fluctuated; Max Beerbohm relates how their mutual friend Reginald 'Reggie' Turner had found Wilde very depressed after a nightmare. \"I dreamt that I had died, and was supping with the dead!\" \"I am sure\", Turner replied, \"that you must have been the life and soul of the party.\" Turner was one of the few of the old circle who remained with Wilde to the end, and was at his bedside when he died.\n\nBy 25 November 1900 Wilde had developed meningitis, then called cerebral meningitis. Robbie Ross arrived on 29 November and sent for a priest, and Wilde was conditionally baptised into the Catholic Church by Fr Cuthbert Dunne, a Passionist priest from Dublin. Wilde, having been baptised in the Church of Ireland, and having moreover a recollection of Catholic baptism as a child, a fact later attested to by the minister of the sacrament, Fr Lawrence Fox, Fr Dunne recorded the baptism:\n\nWilde died of meningitis on 30 November 1900. Different opinions are given as to the cause of the disease: Richard Ellmann claimed it was syphilitic; however, Merlin Holland, Wilde's grandson, thought this to be a misconception, noting that Wilde's meningitis followed a surgical intervention, perhaps a mastoidectomy; Wilde's physicians, Dr Paul Cleiss and A'Court Tucker, reported that the condition stemmed from an old suppuration of the right ear (from the prison injury, see above) treated for several years (\"une ancienne suppuration de l'oreille droite d'ailleurs en traitement depuis plusieurs années\") and made no allusion to syphilis.\n\nWilde was initially buried in the Cimetière de Bagneux outside Paris; in 1909 his remains were disinterred and transferred to Père Lachaise Cemetery, inside the city. His tomb there was designed by Sir Jacob Epstein. It was commissioned by Robert Ross, who asked for a small compartment to be made for his own ashes, which were duly transferred in 1950. The modernist angel depicted as a relief on the tomb was originally complete with male genitalia, which have since been vandalised; their current whereabouts are unknown. In 2000, Leon Johnson, a multimedia artist, installed a silver prosthesis to replace them.\n\nIn 2011, the tomb was cleaned of the many lipstick marks left there by admirers and a glass barrier was installed to prevent further marks or damage.\n\nThe epitaph is a verse from \"The Ballad of Reading Gaol\":\n\n<poem>\nAnd alien tears will fill for him\nPity's long-broken urn,\nFor his mourners will be outcast men,\nAnd outcasts always mourn.\n</poem>\n\nIn 2017, Wilde was among an estimated 50,000 men who were pardoned for homosexual acts that were no longer considered offences under the Policing and Crime Act 2017. The Act is known informally as the Alan Turing law.\n\nWilde's life continues to fascinate, and he has been the subject of numerous biographies since his death. The earliest were memoirs by those who knew him: often they are personal or impressionistic accounts which can be good character sketches, but are sometimes factually unreliable. Frank Harris, his friend and editor, wrote a biography, \"Oscar Wilde: His Life and Confessions\" (1916); though prone to exaggeration and sometimes factually inaccurate, it offers a good literary portrait of Wilde. Lord Alfred Douglas wrote two books about his relationship with Wilde. \"Oscar Wilde and Myself\" (1914), largely ghost-written by T. W. H. Crosland, vindictively reacted to Douglas's discovery that \"De Profundis\" was addressed to him and defensively tried to distance him from Wilde's scandalous reputation. Both authors later regretted their work. Later, in \"Oscar Wilde: A Summing Up\" (1939) and his \"Autobiography\" he was more sympathetic to Wilde. Of Wilde's other close friends, Robert Sherard; Robert Ross, his literary executor; and Charles Ricketts variously published biographies, reminiscences or correspondence. The first more or less objective biography of Wilde came about when Hesketh Pearson wrote \"Oscar Wilde: His Life and Wit\" (1946). In 1954 Wilde's son Vyvyan Holland published his memoir \"Son of Oscar Wilde\", which recounts the difficulties Wilde's wife and children faced after his imprisonment. It was revised and updated by Merlin Holland in 1989.\n\n\"Oscar Wilde, a critical study\" by Arthur Ransome was published in 1912. The book only briefly mentioned Wilde's life, but subsequently Ransome (and The Times Book Club) were sued for libel by Lord Alfred Douglas. The trial in April 1913 was in a way a re-run of the trials of Oscar Wilde. The trial resulted from Douglas's rivalry with Robbie Ross for Wilde (and his need of money). Douglas lost after a reading of \"De Profundis\" refuted his claims.\n\nWilde's life was still waiting for independent, true scholarship when Richard Ellmann began researching his 1987 biography \"Oscar Wilde\", for which he posthumously won a National (USA) Book Critics Circle Award in 1988 and a Pulitzer Prize in 1989. The book was the basis for the 1997 film \"Wilde\", directed by Brian Gilbert and starring Stephen Fry as the title character.\n\nNeil McKenna's 2003 biography, \"The Secret Life of Oscar Wilde,\" offers an exploration of Wilde's sexuality. Often speculative in nature, it was widely criticised for its pure conjecture and lack of scholarly rigour. Thomas Wright's \"Oscar's Books\" (2008) explores Wilde's reading from his childhood in Dublin to his death in Paris. After tracking down many books that once belonged to Wilde's Tite Street library (dispersed at the time of his trials), Wright was the first to examine Wilde's marginalia.\nIn 2018, Matthew Sturgis' \"Oscar: A Life,\" was published in London. Sturgis is a subject expert in Victorian studies. In the thirty years since the publication of Richard Ellmann's biography, the vast amount of errors and omissions in the work have been noted (see the compilation of these errors and omissions in the privately published volume written by the German scholar, Horst Schroeder) and there has been a vast amount of scholarship conducted on various aspects of Oscar Wilde, his life, his wife and friends. There were also several rediscovered letters and other documents that remained uncollected. Sturgis incorporates this scholarly work and rediscovered material in the most extensively researched biography of Wilde to appear since 1988. \n\nWilde's charm also had a lasting effect on Parisian literati, who produced several original biographies and monographs on him. André Gide, on whom Wilde had such a strange effect, wrote \"In Memoriam, Oscar Wilde\"; Wilde also features in his journals. Thomas Louis, who had earlier translated books on Wilde into French, produced his own \"L'esprit d'Oscar Wilde\" in 1920. Modern books include Philippe Jullian's \"Oscar Wilde\", and \"L'affaire Oscar Wilde, ou, Du danger de laisser la justice mettre le nez dans nos draps\" (\"The Oscar Wilde Affair, or, On the Danger of Allowing Justice to put its Nose in our Sheets\") by , a French religious historian.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18515110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18515110", "title": "Othello (paintings)", "text": "Othello (paintings)\n\nOthello is a series of paintings executed in 1985 by Nabil Kanso. The subjects of the paintings are loosely based on Shakespeare’s tragedy \"Othello\". The series comprises 60 paintings dealing with themes of love, race, jealousy, betrayal, and evil. They depict scenes embodying compositions of figural and metaphorical imagery that may be seen as visually reflecting the intimate and dramatic relationship between Othello and Desdemona, and the tense and uneasy relation that passes between and through Othello, Desdemona and Iago. \n\nThe \"Othello\" paintings depict a sequence of figural images with oil and acrylic on canvases and paperboards ranging in size from 30×40 inches (102×76 cm) to 120×216 inches (300×550 cm). The overtones are often conveyed with wide-rugged brushstrokes of black against a red background with areas of orange and yellow, and with figures and shapes of animals, humans, hooded faces, and monsters. It is pointed out that in the painting surface of the works on paper, \"the brushstrokes seem even more aggressive, often giving the figures the immediacy of gesture sketches.\"\n\nThe physical substance of the paintings reflects a process of forming imagery that may correspond in form, texture, tone, and color to the subject it represents. The intense colors and violent movement of the brush seem to add emphasis to the nature of the subject. The embraces of the figures representing Othello and Desdemona are viewed by some as scenes that move \"from tender and loving to confusion and rage.\"\nWhen the \"Othello\" were exhibited at the gallery space of a theater in Atlanta in 1985, the paintings were considered “too provocative” and were taken down the day after the exhibit had been hung.\n\nThe paintings in the series are divided almost equally in two parts. The first part consists of works often depicting compositions of naked human figures encountered in intimate situations heightened by the contrast of light and dark, and various sexual metaphors.\nThe second part contains about thirty canvases dealing with themes of intrigue, suspicion, and killing making direct references to the characters Iago, Othello, and Desdemona in Shakespeare’s tragedy. They reveal images of aggressiveness, intensity, and violence with webs of turbulent rhythm, whirling forms, and allegorical concepts as a means of conjuring imagery with layers of meanings and symbols that may visually reinterpret the intensity of events leading to Othello killing of Desdemona.\n\n"}
{"id": "965947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=965947", "title": "PEN International", "text": "PEN International\n\nPEN International (known as International PEN until 2010) is a worldwide association of writers, founded in London in 1921 to promote friendship and intellectual co-operation among writers everywhere. The association has autonomous International PEN centers in over 100 countries.\n\nOther goals included: to emphasise the role of literature in the development of mutual understanding and world culture; to fight for freedom of expression; and to act as a powerful voice on behalf of writers harassed, imprisoned and sometimes killed for their views.\n\nThe first PEN Club was founded in London in 1921 by Catherine Amy Dawson Scott, with John Galsworthy as its first president. Its first members included Joseph Conrad, Elizabeth Craig, George Bernard Shaw, and H. G. Wells.\n\nPEN originally stood for \"Poets, Essayists, Novelists\", but now stands for \"Poets, Playwrights, Editors, Essayists, Novelists\", and includes writers of any form of literature, such as journalists and historians.\n\nThe club established the following aims:\n\nPast presidents of PEN International have included Alberto Moravia, Heinrich Böll, Arthur Miller, Mario Vargas Llosa, Homero Aridjis, Jiří Gruša and John Ralston Saul. The current president is Jennifer Clement.\n\nPEN International is headquartered in London and composed of autonomous PEN Centres in over 100 countries around the world, each of which are open to writers, journalists, translators, historians and others actively engaged in any branch of literature, regardless of nationality, race, colour, or religion.\n\nIt is a non-governmental organization in formal consultative relations with UNESCO and Special Consultative Status with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations.\n\nThe PEN Charter is based on resolutions passed at its International Congresses and may be\nsummarised as follows:\n\nLiterature, knows no frontiers and must remain common currency among people in spite\nof political or international upheavals.\n\nIn all circumstances, and particularly in time of war, works of art and libraries, the patrimony of humanity at large, should be left untouched by national or political passion.\n\nMembers of PEN should at all times use what influence they have in favour of good understanding and mutual respect among nations; they pledge themselves to do their utmost to dispel race, class, and national hatreds and to champion the ideal of one humanity living in peace in the world.\n\nPEN stands for the principle of unhampered transmission of thought within each nation\nand between all nations, and members pledge themselves to oppose any form of suppression of\nfreedom of expression in the country and community to which they belong, as well as\nthroughout the world wherever this is possible.\n\nPEN declares for a free press and opposes arbitrary censorship in time of peace. It believes that the necessary advance of the world toward a more highly organized political and economic order renders a free criticism of governments, administrations, and institutions imperative. And since freedom implies voluntary restraint, members pledge themselves to oppose such evils of a free press as mendacious publication, deliberate falsehood, and distortion of facts for political and personal ends.\n\nPEN International Writers in Prison Committee works on behalf of persecuted writers worldwide. Established in 1960 in response to increasing attempts to silence voices of dissent by imprisoning writers, the Writers in Prison Committee monitors the cases of as many as 900 writers annually who have been imprisoned, tortured, threatened, attacked, made to disappear, and killed for the peaceful practice of their profession. It publishes a bi-annual Case List documenting free expression violations against writers around the world.\n\nThe committee also coordinates the PEN International membership's campaigns that aim towards an end to these attacks and to the suppression of freedom of expression worldwide.\n\nPEN International Writers in Prison Committee is a founding member of the International Freedom of Expression Exchange (IFEX), a global network of 90 non-governmental organisations that monitors censorship worldwide and defends journalists, writers, internet users and others who are persecuted for exercising their right to freedom of expression.\n\nIt is also a member of IFEX's Tunisia Monitoring Group (TMG), a coalition of twenty-one free expression organisations that began lobbying the Tunisian government to improve its human rights record in 2005. Since the Arab Spring events that led to the collapse of the Tunisian government, TMG has worked to ensure constitutional guarantees of free expression and human rights within the country.\n\nOn 15 January 2016, PEN International joined human rights organisations Freemuse and the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran, along with seven other organisations, to protest against the 2013 imprisonment and 2015 sentencing of musicians Mehdi Rajabian and Yousef Emadi, and filmmaker Hossein Rajabian, and called on the head of the judiciary and other Iranian authorities to drop the charges against them.\n\nThe various PEN affiliations offer many literary awards across a broad spectrum.\n\nA grove of trees beside Lake Burley Griffin forms the PEN International memorial in Canberra, Australian Capital Territory. The dedication reads: \"The spirit dies in all of us who keep silent in the face of tyranny.\" The memorial was officially opened on 17 November 1997.\n\nA cast-iron sculpture entitled \"Witness\", commissioned by English PEN to mark their 90th anniversary and created by Antony Gormley, stands outside the British Library in London. It depicts an empty chair, and is inspired by the symbol used for 30 years by English PEN to represent imprisoned writers around the world. It was unveiled on 13 December 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28872327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28872327", "title": "Processing fluency", "text": "Processing fluency\n\nProcessing fluency is the ease with which information is processed. Perceptual fluency is the ease of processing stimuli based on manipulations to perceptual quality. Retrieval fluency is the ease with which information can be retrieved from memory.\n\nResearch in cognitive neuroscience and psychology has shown that processing fluency influences different kinds of judgments. For instance, perceptual fluency can contribute to the experience of familiarity when fluent processing is attributed to the past. Repeating the presentation of a stimulus, also known as priming, is one method for enhancing fluency. Jacoby and Dallas in 1981 argued that items from past experience are processed more fluently. This becomes a learned experience throughout our lifetime such that fluent items can be attributed to the past. Therefore, people sometimes take fluency as an indication that a stimulus is familiar even though the sense of familiarity is false. Perceptual fluency literature has been dominated with research that posits that fluency leads to familiarity. Behavioral measures of fluency do not have the temporal resolution to properly investigate the interaction between fluency and familiarity. Event-related potentials (ERPs) are a method of averaging brainwaves that has been successful in dissociating different cognitive mechanisms due to small time scale that brainwaves are measured. One study was able to use a manipulation of visual clarity to change perceptual fluency during a recognition task. This manipulation effected ERPs for fluency and familiarity at different times and locations in the brain leading them to believe that these two mechanisms do not come from the same source.\n\nFurther evidence has shown that artificial techniques can be used to trick people into believing they have encountered a stimulus previously. In one experiment, participants were presented symbols which consisted of highly familiar symbols, less familiar symbols and novel symbols. Participants were required to report whether they had encountered any of the symbols presented before the experiment. A 35 millisecond flash preceded each symbol, in which the same, different or no symbol was flashed. It was found that the brief flash of stimulus boosted the fluency of the target item. When the same symbol was flashed, participants’ ratings of having encountered the symbol previously increased. This example illustrates that fluent processing can induce a feeling of familiarity.\n\nFluency and familiarity have been shown to lead to the mere exposure effect. Research has found that repetition of a stimulus can lead to fluent processing which leads to a feeling of liking. In this experiment, participants were presented with unfamiliar faces either three or nine times. After presentation, pairs of faces were shown to participants, each consisting of an old and new face. Results showed that participants gave higher rates of liking to the repeated faces. The mere exposure effect is eliminated if fluent processing is disrupted. Topolinski et al., (2014) explained that the fluency created by pronunciation plays a vital role in increasing fondness for a stimulus. In the experiment, participants were shown unfamiliar adverts in a cinema. The control group watched the adverts with a sugar cube in their mouth. Therefore, there was no interference in pronunciation in the control group. The experimental group watched the adverts whilst eating popcorn, which meant there was oral interference. One week later, participants rated their liking of products. In the control group, the mere exposure effect was observed, where old products had higher ratings than new products. In the experimental group, the mere exposure effect was abolished by interfering with fluency of pronunciation during presentation of stimulus.\n\nLater research observed that high perceptual fluency increases the experience of positive affect. Research with psychophysiological methods corroborated this positive effect on affective experience: easy-to-perceive stimuli were not only judged more positively but increased activation in the zygomaticus major muscle, the so-called \"smiling muscle\". The notion that processing fluency is inherently positive led to the processing fluency theory of aesthetic pleasure, and it has been used to explain people's negative reactions towards migrants, who appear to be more difficult to process than non-migrants.\n\nOther studies have shown that when presenting people with a factual statement, manipulations that make the statement easier to mentally process—even totally nonsubstantive changes like writing it in a cleaner font or making it rhyme or simply repeating it—can alter judgment of the truth of the statement, along with evaluation of the intelligence of the statement's author. This is called the \"illusion of truth effect\". Multiple studies have found that subjects were more likely to judge easy-to-read statements as true. This means that perceived beauty and judged truth have a common underlying experience, namely processing fluency. Indeed, experiments showed that beauty is used as an indication for the correctness of mathematical solutions. This supports the idea that beauty is intuitively seen as truth. Processing fluency may be one of the foundations of intuition and the \"Aha!\" experience.\n\nThe truth effect can be induced by colour differences in statements as well. In a study, participants were presented with statements, some of which were true and the rest being false. Half these statements were presented in high contrast colours and the other half were presented in low contrast colours. Independent of truth, participants judged the high contrast statements as true. Participants were also quicker to make judgements about the high contrast statements compared to the low contrast statements. The contrast differences in statements increased fluency.\n\nFluency has been shown to affect judgements of humour. In one study, participants were presented with jokes which were in easy to read or hard to read fonts. Participants were asked to rate which jokes they believed were more humorous. Participants gave higher ratings to jokes in easy to read fonts. It has been predicted that the jokes in easy to read fonts feel fluent, as they are easier to pronounce and this results in higher ratings. The fluent processing has been misattributed to the humour of the statement.\n\nAs high processing fluency indicates that the interaction of a person with the environment goes smoothly, a person does not need to pay particular attention to the environment. By contrast, low processing fluency means that there are problems in the interaction with the environment which requires more attention and an analytical processing style to solve the problem. Indeed, people process information more shallowly when processing fluency is high and employ an analytical thinking style when processing fluency is low.\n\nA 2010 study demonstrated that the long-known effect of illegible handwriting in an essay on grading is mediated by a lack of processing fluency (and not, for example, negative stereotypes related to illegible writing).\n\nBasic research on processing fluency has been applied to marketing, to business names, and to finance. For example, psychologists have determined that, during the week following their IPO, stocks perform better when their names are fluent/easy to pronounce and when their ticker symbols are pronounceable (e.g., KAG) vs. unpronounceable (e.g., KGH).\n\n"}
{"id": "200339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200339", "title": "Raga", "text": "Raga\n\nA raga or raaga (IAST: rāga; also raag or ragam ; literally \"coloring, tingeing, dyeing\") is a melodic framework for improvisation akin to a melodic mode in Indian classical music. While the \"raga\" is a remarkable and central feature of the classical music tradition, it has no direct translation to concepts in the classical European music tradition. Each \"raga\" is an array of melodic structures with musical motifs, considered in the Indian tradition to have the ability to \"color the mind\" and affect the emotions of the audience.\n\nA \"raga\" consists of at least five notes, and each \"raga\" provides the musician with a musical framework within which to improvise. The specific notes within a \"raga\" can be reordered and improvised by the musician. \"Raga\"s range from small \"raga\"s like Bahar and Shahana that are not much more than songs to big \"raga\"s like Malkauns, Darbari and Yaman, which have great scope for improvisation and for which performances can last over an hour. \"Raga\"s may change over time, with an example being Marwa, the primary development of which has gone down to the lower octave compared to the traditionally middle octave. Each \"raga\" traditionally has an emotional significance and symbolic associations such as with season, time and mood. The \"raga\" is considered a means in Indian musical tradition to evoke certain feelings in an audience. Hundreds of \"raga\" are recognized in the classical tradition, of which about 30 are common. Each \"raga\", state Dorothea E. Hast and others, has its \"own unique melodic personality\".\n\nThere are two main classical music traditions, \"Hindustani\" (North Indian) and \"Carnatic\" (South Indian), and the concept of \"raga\" is shared by both. \"Raga\" are also found in Sikh traditions such as in \"Guru Granth Sahib\", the primary scripture of Sikhism. Similarly it is a part of the \"qawwali\" tradition found in Sufi Islamic communities of South Asia. Some popular Indian film songs and ghazals use \"rāgas\" in their compositions.\n\nThe Sanskrit word \"raga\" (Sanskrit: राग) has Indo-European roots, as \"*reg-\" which connotes \"to dye\". It is found in Greek, Persian, Khwarezmian and other languages, in variants such as \"raxt\", \"rang\", \"rakt\" and others. The words \"red\" and \"rado\" are also related.\n\n\"Rāga\" (Sanskrit: राग), states Monier Monier-Williams, comes from a Sanskrit word for \"the act of colouring or dyeing\", or simply a \"colour, hue, tint, dye\". The term also connotes an emotional state referring to a \"feeling, affection, desire, interest, joy or delight\", particularly related to passion, love, or sympathy for a subject or something. In the context of ancient Indian music, the term refers to a harmonious note, melody, formula, building block of music available to a musician to construct a state of experience in the audience.\n\nThe word appears in the ancient Principal Upanishads of Hinduism, as well as the \"Bhagavad Gita\". For example, verse 3.5 of the \"Maitri Upanishad\" and verse 2.2.9 of the \"Mundaka Upanishad\" contain the word \"raga\". The \"Mundaka Upanishad\" uses it in its discussion of soul (Atman-Brahman) and matter (Prakriti), with the sense that the soul does not \"color, dye, stain, tint\" the matter. The \"Maitri Upanishad\" uses the term in the sense of \"passion, inner quality, psychological state\". The term \"raga\" is also found in ancient texts of Buddhism where it connotes \"passion, sensuality, lust, desire\" for pleasurable experiences as one of three impurities of a character. Alternatively, \"raga\" is used in Buddhist texts in the sense of \"color, dye, hue\".\n\nThe term \"raga\" in the modern connotation of a melodic format occurs in the \"Brihaddeshi\" by Matanga dated ca. 8th century, or possibly 9th century. The \"Brihaddeshi\" describes \"raga\" as \"a combination of tones which, with beautiful illuminating graces, pleases the people in general\".\n\nAccording to Emmie Te Nijenhuis, a professor in Indian musicology, the \"Dattilam\" section of \"Brihaddeshi\" has survived into the modern times, but the details of ancient music scholars mentioned in the extant text suggest a more established tradition by the time this text was composed. The same essential idea and prototypical framework is found in ancient Hindu texts, such as the \"Naradiyasiksa\" and the classic Sanskrit work \"Natya Shastra\" by Bharata Muni, whose chronology has been estimated to sometime between 500 BCE and 500 CE, probably between 200 BCE and 200 CE.\n\nBharata describes a series of empirical experiments he did with the \"Veena\", then compared what he heard, noting the relationship of fifth intervals as a function of intentionally induced change to the instrument's tuning. Bharata states that certain combination of notes are pleasant, certain not so. His methods of experimenting with the instrument triggered further work by ancient Indian scholars, leading to the development of successive permutations, as well as theories of musical note inter-relationships, interlocking scales and how this makes the listener feel. Bharata discusses \"Bhairava\", \"Kaushika\", \"Hindola\", \"Dipaka\", \"SrI-raga\", and \"Megha\". Bharata states that these have the ability to trigger a certain affection and the ability to \"color the emotional state\" in the audience. His encyclopedic \"Natyashastra\" links his studies on music to the performance arts, and it has been influential in Indian performance arts tradition.\n\nThe other ancient text, \"Naradiyasiksa\" dated to be from the 1st century BCE, discusses secular and religious music, compares the respective musical notes. This is earliest known text that reverentially names each musical note to be a deity, describing it in terms of \"varna\" (colors) and other motifs such as parts of fingers, an approach that is conceptually similar to the 12th century Guidonian hand in European music. The study that mathematically arranges rhythms and modes (\"raga\") has been called \"prastara\".\n\nIn the ancient texts of Hinduism, the term for the technical mode part of \"Raga\" was \"Jati\". Later, \"Jati\" evolved to mean quantitative class of scales, while \"Raga\" evolved to become a more sophisticated concept that included the experience of the audience. A figurative sense of the word as 'passion, love, desire, delight' is also found in the \"Mahabharata\". The specialized sense of 'loveliness, beauty,' especially of voice or song, emerges in classical Sanskrit, used by Kalidasa and in the \"Panchatantra\".\n\nClassical music has ancient roots, and it primarily developed due to the reverence for arts, for both spiritual (\"moksha\") and entertainment (\"kama\") purposes in Hinduism. The Buddha discouraged music aimed at entertainment, but encouraged chanting of sacred hymns. The various canonical \"Tipitaka\" texts of Buddhism, for example, state \"Dasha-shila\" or ten precepts for those following the Buddhist spiritual path. Among these is the precept recommending \"abstain from dancing, singing, music and worldly spectacles\". Buddhism does not forbid music or dance to a Buddhist layperson, but its emphasis has been on chants, not on musical \"raga\".\n\n\"Raga\", along with performance arts such as dance and music, has been historically integral to Hinduism, with some Hindus believing that music is itself a spiritual pursuit and a means to moksha (liberation). \"Ragas\", in the Hindu tradition, are believed to have a natural existence. Artists don't invent them, they only discover them. Music appeals to human beings, according to Hinduism, because they are hidden harmonies of the ultimate creation. Some of its ancient texts such as the \"Sama Veda\" (~1000 BCE) are structured entirely to melodic themes, it is sections of \"Rigveda\" set to music. The \"ragas\" were envisioned by the Hindus as manifestation of the divine, a musical note treated as god or goddess with complex personality.\n\nDuring the Bhakti movement of Hinduism, dated to about the middle of 1st millennium CE, \"raga\" became an integral part of a musical pursuit of spirituality. Bhajan and Kirtan were composed and performed by the early South India pioneers. A \"Bhajan\" has a free form devotional composition based on melodic \"ragas\". A \"Kirtan\" is a more structured team performance, typically with a call and response musical structure, similar to an intimate conversation. It includes two or more musical instruments, and incorporates various \"ragas\" such as those associated with Hindu gods Shiva (\"Bhairava\") or Krishna (\"Hindola\").\n\nThe early 13th century Sanskrit text \"Sangitaratnakara\", by Sarngadeva patronized by King Sighana of the Yadava dynasty in Maharashtra, mentions and discusses 253 \"ragas\". This is one of the most complete historic treatises on the structure, technique and reasoning behind \"ragas\" that has survived.\n\nThe tradition of incorporating \"raga\" into spiritual music is also found in Jainism, and in Sikhism, an Indian religion founded by Guru Nanak in the northwest of the Indian subcontinent. In the Sikh scripture, the texts are attached to a \"raga\" and are sung according to the rules of that \"raga\". According to Pashaura Singh – a professor of Sikh and Punjabi studies, the \"raga\" and \"tala\" of ancient Indian traditions were carefully selected and integrated by the Sikh Gurus into their hymns. They also picked from the \"standard instruments used in Hindu musical traditions\" for singing \"kirtans\" in Sikhism.\n\nDuring the Islamic rule period of the Indian subcontinent, particularly in and after the 15th century, the mystical Islamic tradition of Sufism developed devotional songs and music called \"qawwali\". It incorporated elements of \"raga\" and \"tala\".\n\nA \"raga\" is sometimes explained as a melodic rule set that a musician works with, but according to Dorottya Fabian and others, this is now generally accepted among music scholars to be an explanation that is too simplistic. According to them, a \"raga\" of the ancient Indian tradition is best described as \"a non-constructible set in music\", just like non-constructible set in language for human communication, in a manner described by Frederik Kortlandt and George van Driem.\nThe attempt to appreciate, understand and explain \"raga\" among European scholars started in the early colonial period. In 1784, Jones translated it as \"mode\" of European music tradition, but Willard corrected him in 1834 with the statement that a \"Raga\" is both mode and tune. In 1933, states José Luiz Martinez – a professor of Music, Stern refined this explanation to \"the \"raga\" is more fixed than mode, less fixed than the melody, beyond the mode and short of melody, and richer both than a given mode or a given melody; it is mode with added multiple specialities\".\n\nA \"raga\" is a central concept of Indian music, predominant in its expression, yet the concept has no direct Western translation. According to Walter Kaufmann, though a remarkable and prominent feature of Indian music, a definition of \"raga\" cannot be offered in one or two sentences. \"Raga\" is a fusion of technical and ideational ideas found in music, and may be roughly described as a musical entity that includes note intonation, relative duration and order, in a manner similar to how words flexibly form phrases to create an atmosphere of expression. In some cases, certain rules are considered obligatory, in others optional. The \"raga\" allows flexibility, where the artist may rely on simple expression, or may add ornamentations yet express the same essential message but evoke a different intensity of mood.\n\nA \"raga\" has a given set of notes, on a scale, ordered in melodies with musical motifs. A musician playing a \"raga\", states Bruno Nettl, may traditionally use just these notes, but is free to emphasize or improvise certain degrees of the scale. The Indian tradition suggests a certain sequencing of how the musician moves from note to note for each \"raga\", in order for the performance to create a \"rasa\" (mood, atmosphere, essence, inner feeling) that is unique to each \"raga\". A \"raga\" can be written on a scale. Theoretically, thousands of \"raga\" are possible given 5 or more notes, but in practical use, the classical tradition has refined and typically relies on several hundred. For most artists, their basic perfected repertoire has some forty to fifty \"ragas\". \"Raga\" in Indian classic music is intimately related to \"tala\" or guidance about \"division of time\", with each unit called a \"matra\" (beat, and duration between beats).\n\nA \"raga\" is not a tune, because the same \"raga\" can yield an infinite number of tunes. A \"raga\" is not a scale, because many \"ragas\" can be based on the same scale. A \"raga\", according to Bruno Nettl and other music scholars, is a concept similar to a mode, something between the domains of tune and scale, and it is best conceptualized as a \"unique array of melodic features, mapped to and organized for a unique aesthetic sentiment in the listener\". The goal of a \"raga\" and its artist is to create \"rasa\" (essence, feeling, atmosphere) with music, as classical Indian dance does with performance arts. In the Indian tradition, classical dances are performed with music set to various \"ragas\".\n\nJoep Bor of the Rotterdam Conservatory of Music defined \"Raga\" as a \"tonal framework for composition and improvisation.\" Nazir Jairazbhoy, chairman of UCLA's department of ethnomusicology, characterized ragas as separated by scale, line of ascent and descent, transilience, emphasized notes and register, and intonation and ornaments.\n\n\"Rāginī\" (Devanagari: रागिनी) is a term for the \"feminine\" counterpart of a \"masculine\" rāga. These are envisioned to parallel the god-goddess themes in Hinduism, and described variously by different medieval Indian music scholars. For example, the \"Sangita-darpana\" text of 15th-century Damodara Misra proposes six \"raga\" with thirty \"ragini\", creating a system of thirty six, a system that became popular in Rajasthan. In the north Himalayan regions such as Himachal Pradesh, the music scholars such as 16th century Mesakarna expanded this system to include eight descendants to each \"raga\", thereby creating a system of eighty four. After the 16th-century, the system expanded still further.\n\nIn \"Sangita-darpana\", the Bhairava \"raga\" is associated with the following raginis: Bhairavi, Punyaki, Bilawali, Aslekhi, Bangli. In the Meskarna system, the masculine and feminine musical notes are combined to produce \"putra ragas\" called Harakh, Pancham, Disakh, Bangal, Madhu, Madhava, Lalit, Bilawal.\n\nThis system is no longer in use today because the 'related' ragas had very little or no similarity and the raga-ragini classification did not agree with various other schemes.\n\nThe North Indian \"raga\" system is also called \"Hindustani\", while the South Indian system is commonly referred to as \"Carnatic\". The North Indian system suggests a particular time of a day or a season, in the belief that the human state of psyche and mind are affected by the seasons and by daily biological cycles and nature's rhythms. The South Indian system is closer to the text, and places less emphasis on time or season.\n\nThe symbolic role of classical music through \"raga\" has been both aesthetic indulgence and the spiritual purifying of one's mind (yoga). The former is encouraged in Kama literature (such as \"Kamasutra\"), while the latter appears in Yoga literature with concepts such as \"Nada-Brahman\" (metaphysical Brahman of sound). \"Hindola raga\", for example, is considered a manifestation of Kama (god of love), typically through Krishna. \"Hindola\" is also linked to the festival of \"dola\", which is more commonly known as \"spring festival of colors\" or Holi. This idea of aesthetic symbolism has also been expressed in Hindu temple reliefs and carvings, as well as painting collections such as the Ragamala.\n\nIn ancient and medieval Indian literature, the \"raga\" are described as manifestation and symbolism for gods and goddesses. Music is discussed as equivalent to the ritual \"yajna\" sacrifice, with pentatonic and hexatonic notes such as \"ni-dha-pa-ma-ga-ri\" as Agnistoma, \"\"ri-ni-dha-pa-ma-ga\" as Asvamedha, and so on.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, music scholars of India began associating each \"raga\" with seasons. The 11th century Nanyadeva, for example, recommends that \"Hindola raga\" is best in spring, \"Pancama\" in summer, \"Sadjagrama\" and \"Takka\" during the monsoons, \"Bhinnasadja\" is best in early winter, and \"Kaisika\" in late winter. In the 13th century, Sarngadeva went further and associated \"raga\" with rhythms of each day and night. He associated pure and simple \"ragas\" to early morning, mixed and more complex \"ragas\" to late morning, skillful \"ragas\" to noon, love-themed and passionate \"ragas\" to evening, and universal \"ragas\" to night.\n\nAccording to Cris Forster, mathematical studies on systematizing and analyzing South Indian \"raga\" began in the 16th century. Computational studies of \"ragas\" is an active area of musicology.\n\nAlthough notes are an important part of rāga practice, they alone do not make the rāga. A rāga is more than a scale, and many rāgas share the same scale. The underlying scale may have four, five, six or seven tones, called \"swaras\" (sometimes spelled as \"svara\"). The \"svara\" concept is found in the ancient \"Natya Shastra\" in Chapter 28. It calls the unit of tonal measurement or audible unit as \"Śruti\", with verse 28.21 introducing the musical scale as follows,\n\nThese seven degrees are shared by both major \"raga system\", that is the North Indian (Hindustani) and South Indian (Carnatic). The solfege (\"sargam\") is learnt in abbreviated form: \"sa, ri (Carnatic) or re (Hindustani), ga, ma, pa, dha, ni, sa\". Of these, the first that is \"sa\", and the fifth that is \"pa\", are considered anchors that are unalterable, while the remaining have flavors that differs between the two major systems.\n\nThe music theory in the \"Natyashastra\", states Maurice Winternitz, centers around three themes – sound, rhythm and prosody applied to musical texts. The text asserts that the octave has 22 \"srutis\" or microintervals of musical tones or 1200 cents. Ancient Greek system is also very close to it, states Emmie Te Nijenhuis, with the difference that each \"sruti\" computes to 54.5 cents, while the Greek enharmonic quartertone system computes to 55 cents. The text discusses \"gramas\" (scales) and \"murchanas\" (modes), mentioning three scales of seven modes (21 total), some Greek modes are also like them . However, the Gandhara-grama is just mentioned in \"Natyashastra\", while its discussion largely focuses on two scales, fourteen modes and eight four \"tanas\" (notes). The text also discusses which scales are best for different forms of performance arts.\n\nThese musical elements are organized into scales (\"mela\"), and the South Indian system of \"raga\" works with 72 scales, as first discussed by \"Caturdandi prakashika\". They are divided into two groups, \"purvanga\" and \"uttaranga\", depending on the nature of the lower tetrachord. The \"anga\" itself has six cycles (\"cakra\"), where the \"purvanga\" or lower tetrachord is anchored, while there are six permutations of \"uttaranga\" suggested to the artist. After this system was developed, the Indian classical music scholars have developed additional \"ragas\" for all the scales. The North Indian style is closer to the Western diatonic modes, and built upon the foundation developed by Bhatkhande using ten \"Thaat\": \"kalyan, bilaval, khamaj, kafi, asavari, bhairavi, bhairav, purvi, marva and todi\". Some \"ragas\" are common to both systems and have same names, such as \"kalyan\" performed by either is recognizably the same. Some \"ragas\" are common to both systems but have different names, such as \"malkos\" of Hindustani system is recognizably the same as \"hindolam\" of Carnatic system. However, some \"ragas\" are named the same in the two systems, but they are different, such as \"todi\".\n\nRāgas that have four swaras are called \"surtara\" (सुरतर) rāgas; those with five swaras are called \"audava\" (औडव) rāgas; those with six, \"shaadava\" (षाडव); and with seven, \"sampurna\" (संपूर्ण, Sanskrit for 'complete'). The number of swaras may differ in the ascending and descending like rāga Bhimpalasi which has five notes in the ascending and seven notes in descending or Khamaj with six notes in the ascending and seven in the descending. Rāgas differ in their ascending or descending movements. Those that do not follow the strict ascending or descending order of swaras are called \"vakra\" (वक्र) ('crooked') rāgas.\n\nIn Carnatic music, the principal rāgas are called \"Melakarthas\", which literally means \"lord of the scale\". It is also called \"Asraya raga\" meaning \"shelter giving raga\", or \"Janaka raga\" meaning \"father raga\".\n\nA \"Thaata\" in the South Indian tradition are groups of derivative \"rāgas\", which are called \"Janya rāgas\" meaning \"begotten ragas\" or \"Asrita ragas\" meaning \"sheltered ragas\". However, these terms are approximate and interim phrases during learning, as the relationships between the two layers are neither fixed nor has unique parent-child relationship.\n\nJanaka rāgas are grouped together using a scheme called \"Katapayadi sutra\" and are organised as \"Melakarta\" rāgas. A Melakarta rāga is one which has all seven notes in both the ārōhanam (ascending scale) and avarōhanam (descending scale). Some \"Melakarta\" rāgas are \"Harikambhoji\", \"Kalyani\", \"Kharaharapriya\", \"Mayamalavagowla\", \"Sankarabharanam\" and \"Todi\". Janya rāgas are derived from the Janaka rāgas using a combination of the swarams (usually a subset of swarams) from the parent rāga. Some janya rāgas are \"Abheri\", \"Abhogi\", \"Bhairavi\", \"Hindolam\", \"Mohanam\" and \"Kambhoji\".\n\nClassical music has been transmitted through music schools or through Guru-Shishya \"parampara\" (teacher-student tradition) through an oral tradition and practice. Some are known as \"gharana\" (houses), and their performances are staged through \"sabhas\" (music organizations). Each \"gharana\" has freely improvised over time, and differences in the rendering of each \"rāga\" is discernible. In the Indian musical schooling tradition, the small group of students lived near or with the teacher, the teacher treated them as family members providing food and boarding, and a student learnt various aspects of music thereby continuing the musical knowledge of his guru. The tradition survives in parts of India, and many musicians can trace their guru lineage.\n\nThe music concept of \"Rāk\" in Persian is probably a pronunciation of \"Raga\". According to Hormoz Farhat, it is unclear how this term came to Persia, it has no meaning in modern Persian language, and the concept of \"raga\" is unknown in Persia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16448388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16448388", "title": "Religious image", "text": "Religious image\n\nA religious image, sometimes called a votive image, is a work of visual art that is representational and has a religious purpose, subject or connection. All major historical religions have made some use of religious images, although their use is strictly controlled and often controversial in many religions, especially Abrahamic ones. General terms associated with religious images include cult image, a term for images, especially in sculpture which are or have been claimed to be the object of religious worship in their own right, and icon strictly a term for Eastern Orthodox religious images, but often used more widely, in and outside the area of religion.\n\nImages flourished within the Christian world, but by the 6th century, certain factions arose within the Eastern Church to challenge the use of icons, and in 726-30 they won Imperial support. The Iconoclasts actively destroyed icons in most public places, replacing them with the only religious depiction allowed, the cross. The Iconodules (those who favored the veneration of images), on the other hand, argued that icons had always been used by Christians and should continue to be allowed. They further argued that not only should the use of icons be permitted, it was necessary to the Christian faith as a testimony of the dogma of the Incarnation of Christ. Saint John Damascene argued:\n\n\"Of old God the incorporial and uncircumscribed was not depicted at all. But now that God has appeared in the flesh and lived among men, I make an image of the God who can be seen. I do not worship matter, but I worship the Creator of matter, who for my sake became material and deigned to dwell in matter, who through matter effected my salvation.\"\n\nFinally, after much debate at the Second Council of Nicaea, held in 787, the Iconodules, supported by the Empress, upheld the use of icons as an integral part of Christian tradition, and the Western Church, which had been almost totally unaffected by the dispute, confirmed this. According to the definition of the council, icons of Jesus are not intended to depict his divinity, but only the Incarnate Word. Saints are depicted because they reflect the grace of God, as depicted by their halos.\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church fully ascribes to the teachings of the Seventh Ecumenical Council and celebrates the restoration of the use of icons after the period of Iconoclasm on the First Sunday of Great Lent. So important are the icons in Orthodox theology that the ceremony celebrating their restoration is known as the Triumph of Orthodoxy.\n\nIn the traditions of Eastern Christianity, only flat images or \"bas relief\" images are used (no more than 3/4 relief). Because the Eastern Church teaches that icons should represent the spiritual reality rather than the physical reality, the traditional style of Orthodox iconography was developed in which figures were stylized in a manner that emphasized their holiness rather than their humanity.\n\nTraditional icons differ from Western art in that they are not romantic or emotional, but call the viewer to \"sobriety\" (\"nipsis\"). The manner of depicting the face, and especially the eyes, is intended to produce in the viewer a sense of calm, devotion, and a desire for asceticism. Icons also differ from Western art in that they use inverse perspective (giving the impression that the icon itself is the source of light), and for this reason make very little use of shadow or highlight. The background of icons is usually covered with gold leaf to remind the viewer that the subject pictured is not earthly but otherworldly (gold being the closest earthly medium in which to signify heavenly glory).\n\nJesus and the Apostles are depicted wearing the robes of philosophers. The precise manner of depicting the face of Jesus and many of the saints is also fixed by tradition. Even the colours used in depicting the clothing of Jesus, the Virgin Mary, and other saints is fixed by tradition, with symbolic meaning attached to each color. Icons of Jesus depict him with a halo that displays three bars of a cross and the Greek letters which signify I AM (the Divine Name which God revealed to Moses at the Burning Bush). The halos of saints, even the Theotokos (Mother of God) are usually simple circles, filled with gold leaf. Over the centuries, painter's manuals have developed to help preserve the traditions and techniques of Orthodox iconography, one of the best-known is the manual from the Stroganov School of iconography in Russia. Despite these strict guidelines, the Orthodox iconographic style is not stilted, and the individual artist is always permitted to bring his own style and spiritual insight into his work, so long as he remains faithful to Sacred Tradition, and many icons display remarkable movement and depth.\n\nThe thoughtful use of symbolism allows the icon to present complex teaching in a simple way, making it possible to educate even the illiterate in theology. The interiors of Orthodox Churches are often completely covered in icons of Christ, Mary and the saints. Most are portrait figures in various conventional poses, but many narrative scenes are also depicted. It is not unusual in narrative icons for the same individual to be depicted more than one time.\n\nOrthodox Christians do not pray \"to\" icons; rather, they pray \"before\" them. An icon is a medium of communication, rather than a medium of art. Gazing at an icon is intended to help draw the worshipper into the heavenly kingdom. As with all of Orthodox theology, the purpose is \"theosis\" (mystical union with God).\n\nIcons are venerated by the faithful by bowing and kissing them. Traditionally, the faithful would not kiss the face of the one depicted on the icon, but rather the right hand or foot depicted on the icon. The composition of an icon is planned with this veneration in mind, and the iconographer will usually portray his subject so that the right hand is raised in blessing, or if it is the saint's full figure is depicted, the right foot is visible.\n\nIcons are also honored with incense and by burning lampadas (oil lamps) in front of them. Icons are carried in processions, and the bishop or priest may bless the people by holding an icon upright and making the sign of the cross with it over them.\n\nUntil the 13th century, icons followed a broadly similar pattern in West and East, although very few such early examples survive from either tradition. Western icons, which are not usually so termed, were largely patterned on Byzantine works, and equally conventional in composition and depiction. From this point on the Western tradition came slowly to allow the artist far more flexibility, and a more realistic approach to the figures.\n\nIn the 15th century the use of icons in the West was enormously increased by the introduction of prints on paper, mostly woodcuts which were produced in vast numbers. With the Reformation, after an initial uncertainty among early Lutherans, Protestants came down firmly against icon-like portraits, especially larger ones, even of Christ. Many Protestants found these idolatrous. Catholics maintained and even intensified the traditional use of icons, both printed and on paper, using the different styles of the Renaissance and Baroque. Popular Catholic imagery to a certain extent has remained attached to a Baroque style of about 1650, especially in Italy and Spain.\n\nIn the Church of England, the Royal Arms of the United Kingdom has been used like an icon, owing to its absence of human portraiture, as a representation of the sovereign as Head of the Church. It has been done in wood and stone as well as painted.\n\nImages of Hindu gods and goddesses use a rich symbolism. Some figures are blue-skinned (the color of heaven) or have multiple arms holding various symbols which depict aspects of the god.\n\nMuslims view sanctified icons as idols, and strictly forbid their worship, nor do they pray in front of one. However, the various divisions of Islam take different positions on the role of visual depictions of living (or once-living) creatures, including people. At one end of the spectrum, sects such as the Wahhabis totally ban drawings and photography. Some branches of Islam forbid only the former but allow the latter. The majority of Sunni Muslims permit both. Some Shia allow even the depiction of Muhammad and the twelve Imams, a position totally unacceptable to most Sunnis.\n\nIt is commonly thought that the Jews absolutely prohibit \"graven images\"; this, however, is not entirely true. There are numerous instances within the scriptures that describe the creation and use of images for religious purposes (the angels on the Ark of the Covenant, the bronze snake Moses mounted on a pole, etc.). What is important to note is that none of these are worshipped as God. Since God is incorporeal and has no form, He cannot be depicted. During the Late Antique period of Jewish history it is clear that restrictions on representation were relaxed considerably; for example, the synagogue at Dura Europas had large figurative wall paintings. It is also clear there was a tradition of painted scrolls, of which the Joshua Roll and the Utrecht Psalter are medieval Christian copies, none of the originals having survived. There are also many medieval illuminated manuscripts, especially of the Haggadah of Pesach (Passover).\n\nA unique Jewish tradition of animal iconography was developed in Eastern Europe, which included symbolic depictions of God's attributes and powers as various animal scenes and plant ornaments in the wooden synagogues in the Polish-Lithuanian commonwealth, as well as some mystical imagery on the gravestones. A part of the same imagery also appears on the Ashkenazic Shivisi - meditative images used for contemplation over God's name, not unlike the Eastern Mandalas.\n\nSome synagogue wall paintings contained over 80 various animals, including lions, unicorns, dragons, lion-headed mermaids, three hares, three intertwined fishes, Uroboros, elephants, deer, leopards, bears, foxes, wolves, squirrels, turkeys, ostriches and many others.\n\nGod himself was usually represented as a two-headed golden eagle in the center of the Sun, painted on the ceiling of the synagogue, and surrounded by the Zodiac circle. This system was based on the Kabbalistic symbolic tradition; unfortunately, the meaning of some forgotten symbols is hard to recover.\n\nThomas Hubka has traced the style of decorative painting in the wooden synagogues to the medieval Hebrew illuminated manuscripts of Ashkenazi Jewry, and its meaning to the Jewish mystical literature, such as the Zohar and the works of Rabbi Elazar Rokeach.\n"}
{"id": "213563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=213563", "title": "Roman de la Rose", "text": "Roman de la Rose\n\nLe Roman de la Rose (English: The Romance of the Rose) is a medieval French poem styled as an allegorical dream vision. It is a notable instance of courtly literature. The work's stated purpose is to both entertain and to teach others about the art of romantic love. Throughout the poem, \"Rose\" is used both as the name of the titular lady and as a symbol of female sexuality. The other characters' names also function both as regular names and as abstractions illustrating the various factors that are involved in a love affair.\n\nThe poem was written in two stages. The first 4,058 lines, written by Guillaume de Lorris circa 1230, describe the attempts of a courtier to woo his beloved. This part of the story is set in a walled garden (a \"locus amoenus\"), a traditional literary topos in epic and chivalric literature. Around 1275, Jean de Meun composed an additional 17,724 lines. In this enormous coda, allegorical personages (Reason, Genius, and so on) hold forth on love.\n\nThe work was both popular and controversial. It was one of the most widely read works in France for three centuries, and it was possibly the most read book in Europe in the 14th and 15th centuries. Its emphasis on sensual language and imagery provoked attacks by Jean Gerson, Christine de Pizan and many other writers and moralists of the 14th and 15th centuries. Historian Johan Huizinga writes: \"It is astonishing that the Church, which so rigorously repressed the slightest deviations from dogma of a speculative character, suffered the teaching of this breviary of the aristocracy (for the \"Roman de la Rose\" was nothing else) to be disseminated with impunity.\"\n\nLater reactions suggested that it had a tenuous encyclopedic quality. The nineteenth-century scholar and writer Gaston Paris wrote that it was \"an encyclopedia in disorder\" and British author C. S. Lewis described it as having an \"encyclopedic character\". One historian wrote that while \"Roman de la Rose\" is obviously not an encyclopedia, \"it evokes one, represents one, dreams one, perhaps, with all its aspirations and limitations\".\n\nAbout 300 manuscripts are extant, one of the highest figures for a secular work. Many of these are illustrated, most with fewer than ten remaining illustrations, but there are a number with twenty or more illustrations, and the exceptional Burgundian British Library Harley MS 4425 has 92 large and high quality miniatures, despite a date around 1500; the text was copied by hand from a printed edition. These are by the artist known as the Master of the Prayer Books of around 1500, commissioned by Count Engelbert II of Nassau. The peak period of production was the 14th century, but manuscript versions continued to be produced until the advent of printing, and indeed afterwards – there are at least seven manuscripts dated after 1500. There are also seven incunabula printed editions before 1500, the first from Geneva in about 1481, followed by two from Lyons in the 1480s and four from Paris in the 1490s. An edition from Lyons in 1503 is illustrated with 140 woodcuts. Digital images of more than 140 of these manuscripts are available for study in the \"Roman de la Rose\" Digital Library.\n\nPart of the story was translated from its original Old French into Middle English as \"The Romaunt of the Rose\", which had a great influence on English literature. Chaucer was familiar with the original French text, and a portion of the Middle English translation is thought to be his work. Critics suggest that the character of \"La Vieille\" acted as source material for Chaucer's Wife of Bath. There were several other early translations into languages including Middle Dutch (Heinrik van Aken, c. 1280). \"Il Fiore\" is a \"reduction\" of the poem into 232 Italian sonnets by a \"ser Durante\", sometimes thought to have been Dante, although this is generally thought unlikely. Dante never mentions the \"Roman\", but is often said to have been highly conscious of it in his own work. In 1900, the pre-Raphaelite F. S. Ellis translated the whole of the poem into English verse. C. S. Lewis's 1936 study \"The Allegory of Love\" renewed interest in the poem.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7108572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7108572", "title": "Russian Enlightenment", "text": "Russian Enlightenment\n\nThe Russian Age of Enlightenment was a period in the 18th century in which the government began to actively encourage the proliferation of arts and sciences, which had a profound impact on Russian culture. During this time, the first Russian university was founded, a library, a theatre, a public museum, as well as relatively independent press. Like other enlightened despots, Catherine the Great played a key role in fostering the arts, sciences, and education. \nThe national Enlightenment in the Russian Empire differed from its Western European counterpart in that it promoted further modernization of all aspects of Russian life and was concerned with abolishing the institution of serfdom in Russia. The Pugachev Rebellion and French Revolution may have shattered the illusions of rapid political change, but the intellectual climate in Russia was altered irrevocably. Russia's place in the world was debated by Denis Fonvizin, Mikhail Shcherbatov, Andrey Bolotov, Ivan Boltin, and Alexander Radishchev; these discussions precipitated the divide between the radical, western, conservative and Slavophile traditions of Russian thought. Intellectuals often used the term prosveshchenie, promoting piety, erudition, and commitment to the spread of learning.\n\nThe ideas of the Russian Enlightenment were first espoused by the \"learned druzhina\" of Peter the Great. It is the spirit which animates the sermons of Feofan Prokopovich, the satires of Antiokh Kantemir, and the historiography of Vasily Tatishchev.\n\nDuring the reign of Peter's daughter Elizaveta Petrovna the ideas of the Enlightened Absolutism found their way into Russia. Elizaveta's favourite, Ivan Shuvalov, was an ideal enlightened courtier: he was instrumental in the establishment of the Moscow University and the Imperial Academy of Arts, which would start the careers of most intellectuals active during the last quarter of the 18th century.\n\nShuvalov was also the patron of the greatest Russian polymath– Mikhail Lomonosov– who left his mark in various branches of science, religious philosophy, poetry, and fine arts. Although his research inevitably eroded the authority of religious doctrines, Lomonosov himself was a devout Christian.\n\nCatherine the Great considered herself an enlightened despot. She read the most prominent \"philosophes\" of the day, including Montesquieu and Voltaire and tried to adhere to Enlightenment ideas. She wished to bring Russia up to par with its neighbors not only in a military sense, but also politically, culturally, and intellectually.\n\nMany of Catherine's contemporaries questioned her adherence to Enlightenment ideals and thought she was an egoist, merely using concepts from the Age of Enlightenment to further her selfish gains. Gender played a primary role in these criticisms. Contemporaries interpreted her personality as combining masculine strength with feminine vanity.\n\n\"Westernization\" carries different meanings in different countries over varying time periods. But in relation to Russia during the 18th century, the term meant legislative changes to economics, politics and culture. It also entails the Russian gentry's adherence to a set standard and its imitation of the Western values. Westernization in Russia included the modernization of machinery, the refinement of a more efficient bureaucracy, and the acceptance of Western European tastes.\nRussia produced more goods, and enlisted thousands of troops during Catherine's reign. While she acquired new lands, including Crimea and Poland, updated the army, and supported burgeoning manufactures, she really wanted to westernize Russia by reforming it, specifically the lives of the gentry, qualitatively. Bringing Russia to an equal level with the rest of Europe intellectually was a major concern of Catherine's. For this reason she created laws that justified her rule.\n\nAlmost every Russian ruler has sought to conquer ports in warm waters. Peter I fought the Ottoman Empire over the Crimea. Gaining access to the Crimea would have given Russia access to the Black Sea and the Dardanelles. While Russia occupied Poland, France realized that the Ottoman Empire was the only country in a position to topple Catherine. Supported by France, the Turks told Russia to leave Poland. Russia declared war on the Sultan immediately afterward. After several successful victories including the destruction of the Turkish naval fleet, Catherine impressed many European powers. \"Catherine, who had at first been treated as a dilettante in politics, now appeared to all the Western chanceries as an evil genius.\n\nCatherine returned to the Crimea in November 1776, and imposed a ruler for the reoccupation of the peninsula because of disturbances there. The Crimeans revolted in 1778, after which the Russians went in the same year and installed their own leader to the throne.\n\nBecause she gained significant diplomatic power in the early 1770s Catherine considered something called the \"Greek Project\". This consisted of pushing the Turks out of Europe but it also carried another more utopian aspect: reclaiming Constantinople from Muslim to Orthodox Christian rule. The Second Turkish War, 1787–1792, ended with Russia gaining the fortress of Ochakov and the Black Sea shore to the Dniester river, and the Ottoman Empire recognizing Russia's annexation of Crimea.\n\nRetaking Constantinople and creating a Christian empire centered there does not appear to be a very enlightened plan. However, Catherine saw land grabbing as an easy way to assert Russia's intentions. By declaring that Constantinople would one day belong to Christians, she also appeased the Church, which still held significant influence in the 18th century. She wished to show Western Europe that her country would be a powerful presence in European political matters. Catherine's partition of Poland was an even more blatant example of power politics. Russia invaded three separate times, in 1772, 1793, and 1795, and divided the once important European state between itself, Austria and Prussia. The 3rd May Constitution of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth voted in 1791 was considered by Catherine as a Jacobin threat and as a therefore presenting a threat to Russia's monarchy and its influence in Poland, which ultimately led to a military expedition resulting in the destruction of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nCatherine's land acquisitions show the quantitative changes she made to the Russian Empire. But she went far beyond this type of modernization that Peter the Great used in Russia. The institution of laws and importation of liberal Western European thought served as means of expanding the state.\n\nAt the advice of her learned correspondents, Catherine introduced a number of changes, ranging from the vast secularization of monastic properties to the domestic reform which envisioned more rational planning for the Russian towns.\n\nCatherine believed in Enlightenment political thought. She reformed the strong and powerful bureaucracy Peter the Great established. She established fifty \"gubernii\" provinces, divided into ten districts. 300,000 to 400,000 people lived in each province and 20,000 to 30,000 lived in every district. A governor, and a network of officials, divided by executive, legislative, and judicial functions were ideally supposed to run each province. Catherine also wanted the gentry to play a role in local political affairs.\n\nCatherine's political reforms went beyond perfecting Russia's bureaucracy. Her \"Nakaz\" or \"Instruction\" expressed her political ideals. She wrote this for her Legislative Commission, summoned in 1767 to draft a Code of Laws for Russia. Representatives from all the free estates of the realm, government bodies, and non-Russian people considered the state of Russia's laws. Several of her advisers suggested putting in place a council to regulate legislation but this was promptly rejected. Once Catherine began to lose the slightest amount of power she reverted to the ways of the past: autocratic rule. She ruled through a series of functional colleges headed by boards under presidents, who worked in cooperation with an appointed administrative Senate of 20 or 30 people. The Senate possessed no legislative powers. Catherine kept the power to pass laws.\n\nShe realized the need for the establishment of laws. Some argue that Catherine used the Enlightenment as a way of placing \"her rule on firm philosophic foundations and providing a national guide for the moral leadership of Europe.\" Others say she used her laws for purely practical reasons. She established a civil law code in January 1774 and a criminal code during the second half of the 1770s, but never finished a unitary code. She drew heavily in the \"Nakaz\" from the latest continental jurisprudence but ignored references to natural law.\n\nCriticism of the Empress's reforms abounded. Professor Semeon Desnitskii, a follower of Adam Smith, suggested that Catherine institute elections every five years of a representative Senate and separation of powers. Mikhail Kheraskov used novels and poems to show that the duty of the autocrat was to transition from an enlightened absolute monarch to a constitutional or limited monarch.\n\nTo understand the significance of Catherine's rule, one must look back on Peter the Great's reign. Peter established the idea of a \"reforming tsar.\" He broke away from the old Muscovite conception of the Russian sovereign as \"good tsar.\" From his reign on all tsars were judged by the standard of: modernizing economics, society, politics and cultural life, gaining influence abroad, and leading Russia on secular Western European ideas. No longer did leaders paternalistically protect the Russian homeland.\n\nRussia became a major European power because of Peter's reforms. From Peter's rule set the precedent for succeeding leaders. For the next 150 years, Russian rulers followed \"reform conservatism\" which consisted of maintaining the state's power, fighting off fundamental change, but also adopting progressive changes that gave the autocracy a feature of liberalism, which was actually conservative in practice.\n\nConsidered the \"only articulate ideologist to rule Russia between Ivan IV and Lenin\", Catherine not only wanted to have military and political equality with Western European countries but she also strove to emulate their enlightened rule by supplanting western thought and practices onto the Russian gentry. Catherine did this because of universal standards Europeans used to compare themselves.\n\nIn contrast to Peter I, who regulated Russian society through public ceremony and legislation, Catherine promoted \"the internal mechanisms of behavior regulation.\" She attempted to achieve this remarkable goal through education. Russia set up state-run schools that provided students with learning in the three Rs, as well as about behavior proper for citizenship. The schools stressed two principles above all else: the need to be patriotic, and the need to accept innovation.\n\nThe upper classes' increased purchasing power caused them to see themselves as equals to the French, British, Swiss, Danish and Swedes. This led the gentry, viewed as the \"pillar of absolutism and of the Russian state,\" to \"domesticate—in the most literal sense of the word—the appointments of Western European polite society.\"\n\nCatherine called the gentry, in her \"Nakaz\" as \"an Appellation of Honour, which distinguishes all those who are adorned with it from every other Person of Inferior Rank.\" In 1785, she fused the notion of reward for service with the idea of inherited rank in \"Declaration of the Rights, Freedom and Privileges of the Well-Born Russian Nobility\": \"The right to the name of \"dvoryanin\" (gentry) comes down from the quality and virtue of those men who took the lead in ancient times and distinguished themselves by particular service.\" She codified this by ordering assemblies of the gentry in regional centers to keep genealogical records. Catherine's reforms allowed those with historically powerful families to keep their status in society, and others to rise due to service. A nobleman no longer showed his refinement through his servitude to the court but through what he owned and what company he kept.\n\nCatherine's Smol'nyi Institute in St. Petersburg, based on the French Maison royale de Saint Louis, taught upper-class girls polite manners in society and gave them a moral education. Girls studied not only \"dance, music, sewing, drawing, and household economy\" but also \"law, mathematics, languages, geography, history, economy, architecture, science, and ethics.\"\n\nHer Sub-Commission on Education concerned itself not with the subtleties of sciences, but with primary, secondary, and higher education. The idea was to teach children the duties required of those who live in society. The Sub-Commission began its work in May 1768 and used English universities, the Prussian system of national education and \"Irish school\" as models. The state then established free, co-educational high schools and primary schools in provincial towns in 1786. By 1764, district towns received primary schools however; rural schools did not come into existence. Few children attended public schools. Around 176,000 children passed through Russian public school between 1786 and 1796. Russia lacked the finances and teachers to run schools properly.\n\nSecularization, a \"western\" principle, officially came to Russia through monetary necessity. Of course Enlightenment ideas about religion influenced the gentry but Catherine established the Commission on Church Lands on February 6, 1764 to support the finances of the state. The appropriation of Church lands to the state brought a substantial amount of money, land, and peasants under Catherine's control.\n\nThe state's efforts to \"westernize\" Russia's gentry greatly affected their economic cirmcumstances. The wealthiest classes gained more income in order to afford education and western habits. The gentry consisted of a fairly impoverished majority and small extremely wealthy minority. The lower gentry farmed and lived slightly better than the few serfs they had. In 1777, 59 percent of the gentry owned less than twenty serfs. The lives of serfs and peasants remained relatively the same during Catherine's reign. In 1762 the peasantry was divided into three groups: private serfs, Church peasants, and state peasants. Consisting of 56 percent of the peasantry, private serfs were bound to their villages because of tax purposes and military conscription. Their masters had a legal responsibility to feed them in time of famine, care for them in old age, and pay their poll-tax.\n\nThe upper classes of Russia put more money into manufacturing, which grew during Catherine's reign. The number of enterprises increased from 600–700 in 1762 to over 2,000 when her reign ended. Russian agriculture grew during Catherine's reign due to the economic pressure put upon the gentry that needed more wealth in order to indulge in Western European tastes. The gentry used potentially arable land in old areas as well as new land on the peripheries of the empire. This expansion occurred during the 1780s and 90s.\n\nThroughout Catherine's reign she tried to find a balance between liberal political economic ideas in the tradition of Adam Smith, and the strong regulation started by Peter I. She preferred hired labor in industry, lowered internal tariffs and custom duties, and did not support monopolies. Catherine forbade the purchase of serfs for industry.\n\nMining was a source of Russian wealth. Catherine invited German mineralogy expert Franz Ludwig von Cancrin to Russia and put him in charge of a major salt mine at Staraya. Cancrin's son Georg von Cancrin joined him later in Russia, where he rose to the post of Minister of Finance.\n\nIn the 1762, the Church owned two-thirds of ploughed land. After Catherine's reform, secularized Church land brought the state \"an annual income of 1,370,000 rubles, of which less than 463,000 was returned to the Church each year between 1764 and 1768.\"\n\nCatherine first initiated the relationship between herself and Voltaire, and she went to very great lengths to make his acquaintance. In the autumn of 1763, Catherine arranged for her Genevan secretary François-Pierre Pictet, an acquaintance of Voltaire, to send Voltaire a letter (supposedly written by Catherine herself) in which Pictet praised her at great length. Catherine made many other attempts to link herself to the French philosophes: she offered to publish the \"Encyclopédie\" in Russia, arranged for several of Voltaire's plays to be produced at the Court of St. Petersburg, asked for copies of his complete works, and invited him to come to Russia. Her flattery eventually won over Voltaire, and they began writing letters to each other in the autumn of 1763, continuing to do so until Voltaire's death fifteen years later.\n\nA relationship with Voltaire benefited Catherine for several reasons. Firstly, Catherine felt the need to strengthen her claim to power, having only recently taken the throne from her husband in a coup d'état. Since the philosophes significantly shaped public opinion in Western Europe, Catherine wanted desperately to gain Voltaire's approval. She used him to spread support of her policies throughout Western Europe. Voltaire also interested Catherine on an intellectual level, as they shared a common interest in politics, philosophy, and literature. Her correspondence with Voltaire provided an outlet for her intellectual curiosity.\n\nVoltaire likewise benefited from Catherine's friendship. Long an admirer of enlightened despotism, Voltaire approved of Catherine's secular policies. He thought that his correspondence with Catherine would help him explore the possibilities for enlightened despotism and allow him to compare the laws and customs of Russia with those of France. By 1763, Voltaire had long been interested in Russia on an intellectual level, having written in 1759 the \"Histoire de l'Empire de Russie sous Pierre le Grand\". Furthermore, because Voltaire was persecuted in Europe for his ideas and even exiled from Paris, he appreciated the Russian Empress's flattery and recognition of his talents and progressive thinking.\n\nVoltaire played an important role in promoting Catherine's image in Europe. He has been described as Catherine's \"most distinguished western partisan, her most enthusiastic devotee, and her most indefatigable and eloquent propagandist.\" In addition to singing her praises among his circles of friends, Voltaire wrote pamphlets that supported Catherine's policies and had her pronouncements and letters published in the western press, particularly targeting anti-Russian publications such as the \"Gazette de France\", the \"Gazette de Cologne\", and the \"Courrier d'Avignon\". Voltaire even succeeded in convincing the French historian Claude-Carloman de Rulhière not to publish his \"Histoire ou anecdotes sur la révolution de Russie en l'année 1762\", which provided a disparaging account of Catherine's rise to power.\n\nVoltaire as propagandist\n\nA foreign-born woman and usurper of the Russian throne, Catherine the Great held no legitimate claim to the crown. Her sole connection with the house of Romanov derived from her marriage to the late Emperor, Peter III, whose murder she was widely known to have orchestrated. The royals who held genealogical claims to the throne overtly devised plots to replace the new Tsarina. Both Ivan VI and Paul I, armed with supporters, threatened Catherine's rule, as well as the guards who possessed the military might to overthrow the Empress. In a letter to Voltaire on September 21, 1762, Catherine acknowledged the conspirators and potential traitors all around her: \"Every guardsman when he looks at me can say: 'I made that woman.'\" A shrewd politician, Catherina also knew she needed the support of the Court, the public, and other powerful regimes in order to maintain power, suppress rebellion, and emerge as a leading world power.\n\nCatherine's letters to Voltaire often served as a means to woo the influential philosopher to her cause. Rather than pursue intellectual subjects, Catherine utilized her letters to flatter and cajole the philosopher. While Voltaire often attempted to initiate the Empress in an intellectual dialogue, Catherine often sidestepped his inquiries. For example, \"Voltaire did try to start a discussion…in the case of the [Claude Adrien] Helvetius translation by Golitsuin. In response to Voltaire's comments…Catherine blithely agrees…but confesses she has not read the book yet,\". One has the impression that Voltaire would have liked to dwell on literary, philosophic or artistic subjects as he did with his other correspondents. However, Catherine was far more interested in winning the philosopher's approval than in entering a philosophical dialogue. \nThe content of her letters does not permit one to see her primary motives as anything other than propagandistic. She is not at all interested in broadening her cultural and intellectual horizons. Catherine seeks no advice from Voltaire on how to rule Russia….Instead Catherine tries to impose her views, justify her policies and explain away her failures. Voltaire is, for Catherine, the best method of diffusing favorable information in Europe. As a testament to Catherine's political ingenuity, she skillfully kept Voltaire at arm's length, feigning a belief in absolute liberalism in her letters while, in practice, implementing repressive reforms in her country. For example, the opinion she shares with Voltaire regarding serfdom did not always correspond with the laws she passed. \"The Empress turned over 800,000 peasants to private proprietors. The 1763 law limiting freedom of movement by requiring the peasant to get a permit from the landlord before he/she could leave the property has been cited as evidence that Catherine enserfed peasants in the name of fiscal expediency,\". Catherine's correspondence largely acted as propaganda intended to assure Voltaire (and Europe) of Russia's prosperity. Handicapped by distance and a lack of information, Voltaire was simply too willing to believe in Catherine's liberalism.\n\nDespite her impure intentions, Catherine remained a loyal and unwavering disciple of Voltaire. Catherine revered the philosopher whose work she had read since her youth. Upon receiving a poem from Voltaire dedicated to her, the empress was \"totally overwhelmed by her emotions…In a letter full of flattery and profound respect…Catherine announced that she had no desire to read any literary works that were not written as well as Voltaire's,\". She often called Voltaire her \"teacher\", her \"thinking instructor\", and her \"master of thought,\". After his death in 1778, Catherine wrote letters to her contemporaries imploring them to study and memorize his works. \"She believed that the study of his work educated citizens, that it helped to form geniuses, heroes and writers, and that it would help to develop thousands of talents,\". Her devotion to Voltaire after his death remains evident of her sincere and genuine reverence of him.\n\nThroughout her reign, Catherine remained committed to intellectual pursuits and encouraged members of her court to engage in them as well. The empress provided her palace staff with a library and reportedly spent an average of 80,000 rubles annually on books. In his essay, \"Catherine the Great: Enlightened Empress?\" Simon Henderson implores the reader to consider the constraints the empress faced when deciding if she was truly an enlightened despot. Henderson asserts that despite her deceptive tactics, she always possessed an \"unswerving commitment to modernizing Russia,\". Early on, Catherine concerned herself with the philosophies and culture of the enlightenment. Though she often agreed with their liberal positions, her status in court was entirely reliant upon the support of noble families. As a result, the Empress could not always implement reforms the way she would have liked. For example, when confronted with the issue of serfdom, Catherine initially suggested in her proposal of \"the Instruction\" that landowners offer serfs the option to \"purchase their freedom\" or that the government limit the period of servitude to six years. However, the nobles omitted this section from the document as it did not benefit them. \"Rather than seeing her as insincere in her concern for the peasantry, historians have recently highlighted…what she might have achieved had the circumstances been different,\". Despite the constraints, Catherine did manage to implement few policies that benefitted the serfs. In 1767 it was forbidden for foster parents to enserf illegitimate children and in 1781 enserfment of prisoners of war was prohibited and a law passes that saw marriage of a free man to a serf woman emancipate the woman. Catherine is known to have investigated and then bought out landowners who were reported to ill-treat their serfs. Voltaire outwardly supported emancipation of the serfs. The philosopher believed that the Russian aristocracy \"should not permit the vast majority of the people to go on suffering from the arbitrariness of [the] very laws who ought to be to afford protection to each and all,\". Furthermore, in an attempt to create a more educated bureaucracy, Catherine moved to bring better education to her people. In 1786, she established the Russian Statute of National Education to launch a national school system. As a result of her campaign to modify Russia, Catherine successfully introduced the tsardom to the Western world and furthered the degree to which it was involved in European affairs. While Catherine worked to bring enlightenment principles to Russia, Voltaire worked to improve her reputation in Europe. The philosopher enthusiastically adopted her cause, commending her to friends in high places, advising her in politics, and distributing her texts to the liberal media, thereby cementing her title as an enlightened despot. \"Voltaire participated in a campaign to protect Catherine's reputation…he wrote pamphlets in support of her policies…[and] published her pronouncements in the western press,\". In a letter to Marquis D'Argenson, a French statesman, Voltaire asked him to help \"re-establish [Catherine's] reputation in Paris\", (Lentin 13). Catherine, happy with rise to popularity, admits to Prince De Ligne: \"It was certainly Voltaire who brought me into fashion,\".\n\nHowever, Voltaire certainly recognized the benefits of fraternizing with the Empress of Russia. The philosopher enjoyed socializing with Europe's elite and often boasted of his influential friends. \"He avowed the usefulness of having a crowned up [his] sleeve…\". Furthermore, as a result of his association with Catherine, Voltaire saw it beneficial for his own reputation to rid the Empress of her disparaging image. \"As Catherine's name was linked more and more to that of the philosophes, it became important that she be cleared of such any unsavory charges,\". Thus neither pen pal was possessed entirely \"pure\" intentions. Yet, despite their ulterior motives, the correspondence remains an important document recording the political pursuits of an Empire. Catherine's alignment with Voltaire acted as an early indication of the Russian tsardom moving towards closer relations with Europe.\n\nCorrespondence\n\nThe main topics of discussion in the Voltaire-Catherine letters were Russia's foreign and domestic affairs. Despite their mutual affection for literature, art and philosophy, very rarely did Catherine and Voltaire discuss such topics. One scholar has suggested that Catherine did not have the intellectual capacity to have such discussions with Voltaire, and that Catherine brought up primarily political affairs in her letters in order to impart her political ideas onto Voltaire. They did discuss cultural matters in the year 1772, which suggests that Catherine wanted to distract Voltaire from her recent partition of Poland.\n\nBoth Catherine and Voltaire wrote to each other in generally approbatory tones. Voltaire's letters to Catherine have been described as \"a catalogue of extravagant and unqualified compliments, and fulsome approbation of her policies.\" He even addressed her as \"my Catherine.\" While Catherine also flattered Voltaire in her letters, she wrote in a more contrived manner, perhaps due to the fact that her secretary Pictet thoroughly revised the letters (unlike the letters she wrote to Frederick the Great) prior to sending them. The main difference between the two sets of letters seems to be that \"[Catherine] compliments Voltaire, to tickle his vanity and play on his prejudices\", while Voltaire's compliments \"convey undertones of hero-worship.\"\n\nDomestic affairs\n\nIn their discussions of Russia's domestic affairs, Catherine only exchanged news with Voltaire that would cast Russia and her rule in a positive light. She sent him news that depicted Russia as an economically stable and prosperous country and to depict herself as the epitome of an enlightened despot.\n\nCatherine greatly exaggerated Russia's economic stability and greatly misinformed Voltaire on the subject. For instance, Catherine in the correspondence never mentioned the Pugachev rebellion of 1773–74. When Voltaire brought up the subject, Catherine brushed it off by simply saying that she had it under control. As a result, Voltaire never realized the significant economic hardship of Russia's peasant class that had triggered the revolt.\n\nThey often discussed legislation, as both strongly advocated for the absolute power of the law. Voltaire asked for information on Catherine's regulations, and Catherine sent Voltaire a copy of her Instructions, which he read twice. The subject of serfdom, in regard to which Voltaire advocated emancipation, also figured prominently in their correspondence. Although Voltaire sent Catherine advice on the subject, he never pushed his ideas, nor did he condemn Catherine for not taking more progressive action against the institution.\n\nNevertheless, Voltaire made clear his stance regarding serfdom in his submission for an essay competition held by the Free Economic Society of St. Petersburg in 1767. For the subject topic of the contest, Catherine chose \"the merits of private ownership of land by the peasants.\" Voltaire's essay, to his disappointment, only received an honorable mention.\n\nForeign affairs\n\nThe majority of Catherine and Voltaire's correspondence took place during the years 1769–1778, a period in which Catherine found herself largely involved with foreign affairs. Thus, much of their correspondence focuses on Russia's wars in Poland and Turkey and on the themes of religion and civilization.\n\nWhen Catherine first invaded Poland, Voltaire believed, contrary to popular opinion, that she had done so based on religious tolerance. He believed that she wanted to restore the rights of the non-Catholic Polish minorities rather than to acquire Polish land. Voltaire was proven wrong in 1772, after Catherine's first partition of the country. However, he never condemned Catherine for deceiving him, but rather congratulated both her and the Poles on the outcome. Their discussions of Poland thus reveal what Peter Gay has called a \"lack of accurate information, compounded by a deliberate refusal to learn the truth.\" The affair greatly damaged Voltaire's reputation in Europe.\n\nAnother major topic of conversation was Russia's relations with Turkey. As a philosopher, Voltaire disagreed with war in general. However, in his letters he encourages Catherine to go to war with Turkey. Voltaire saw the Turks as fundamentally uncivilized, and thus Russia's expansion course as a crusade, not for religion, but in the name of enlightenment. He even suggested to Catherine that Russia, Prussia, and Austria unite to divide Turkey. Catherine, however, wanted to conquer Turkey for political and economic reasons. Namely, she wanted to expand Russia's borders to the Black Sea to obtain a base from which she could target Constantinople.\n\nA more conservative approach was taken by Mikhail Shcherbatov, a publicist and historian whose notion of liberty was influenced by the works of Rousseau. Shcherbatov delivered a scathing criticism of the existing social institutions, maintaining that mass education—rather than far-reaching political reforms and the abolition of serfdom—may be more effective in improving the morals of Russian society.\n\nOn a related note, Ivan Betskoy campaigned for the comprehensive reform of education which would result in the development of a \"new breed of citizens\". His proposals have been implemented in part, e.g., the Smolny Institute was inaugurated for noble maidens, in keeping with Fenelon's doctrine that girls' education was key to the moral regeneration of the corrupt modern society.\n\nCatherine II could be considered the founder of the Russian state university on land use planning, it was announced on May 25, 1779 (on May 14, Julian calendar) that the Surveying School should be opened. The school was named Konstantinovsky in honour of the Great Prince Konstantin Pavlovich, the grandson of Catherine II of Russia who was born in that year. The government and Catherine II of Russia herself patronized and supported the school from the date of its establishing emphasizing a significance of land management and special surveying education. Lack of land surveyors and state importance of land surveying initiated establishing of the school. The legislation of the day emphasized significance of land management: \"Current surveying is a business, which is performed not only to the benefit and peace of every holder but the state business containing the Emperor glory and advantage of peace and quiet for all the State.\"\n\nCatherine's friend Yekaterina Dashkova—sometimes viewed as a precursor of feminism—led the Russian Academy of Sciences for many years. In 1783, she instituted the Russian Academy, which she modeled after the French Academy. Seeking to promote knowledge and study of the Russian language, the Russian Academy prepared the first comprehensive dictionary of the Russian language.\n\nEven the monolith of the Russian Orthodox Church seemed to succumb to the influences of the Enlightenment. The teachings of Platon Levshin, Metropolitan of Moscow, underlined the need for tolerance and encouraged the advancement of ecclesiastical education.\n\nEnlightenment ideas were popularized by the nascent Russian theatre. The first Russian theater group of this kind was established in Yaroslavl by Fyodor Volkov and Ivan Dmitrievsky during Elizaveta's reign. Aleksandr Sumarokov was responsible for the repertory of their theatre.\n\nDuring Catherine's reign the leading playwrights included Denis Fonvizin, who ridiculed the rusticity of provincial gentry and their thoughtless imitation of all things French; Vladislav Ozerov, who authored a great number of Neoclassical tragedies with touches of sentimentalism; and Yakov Knyazhnin, whose drama about a popular uprising against Rurik's rule was declared Jacobin and publicly burnt in 1791.\n\nEven Catherine's favourite poet, Gavrila Derzhavin—who sought in his odes to combine amusement with instruction—would see some of his poems banned from print during the last years of her reign.\n\nOpera reached Russia in 1731, when Empress Anna invited the Italian opera troupe to show \"Calandro\" by Giovanni Alberto Ristori during the celebration of her coronation in Moscow. In 1735 another Italian opera troupe led by composer Francesco Araja was invited to work in St. Petersburg. Araja spent 25 years in Russia and wrote 14 operas for the Russian Court including \"Tsefal i Prokris\" (1755), the first opera written in Russian to the libretto by Alexander Sumarokov.\n\nForeign composers like Johann Adolf Hasse, Hermann Raupach, Galuppi, Manfredini, Traetta, Paisiello, Sarti, Cimarosa and Martin y Soler, Ivan Kerzelli, Antoine Bullant, brought important contribution to the Russian opera, to the Italian libretti as well as Russian libretti. There were also extremely popular operas by the Belgian/French André Ernest Modeste Grétry that were widely performed, including in Kuskovo and Ostankino theatres, where they were given with participation of the famous serf-soprano Praskovya Zhemchugova at the private opera of Nikolai Sheremetev.\n\nCatherine II sent some domestic composers like Berezovsky and Bortniansky abroad to study art of music composition and later they produced some operas in Italian and French. And only at the beginning of the 1770s the first modest attempts of the composers of Russian origin to compose operas to the Russian librettos were made. Among these were successful one-act opera \"Anyuta\" (1772) to the text by Mikhail Popov, and opera \"Melnik – koldun, obmanshchik i svat\" (\"The Miller who was a Wizard, a Cheat and a Match-maker\") to the text by Alexander Ablesimov with music by Mikhail Sokolovsky (1779).\n\nThe most important contribution in the opera genre were made by Vasily Pashkevich with his \"The Carriage Accident\" (\"Neschastye ot karety\", 1779), \"The Miser\" to the text by Yakov Knyazhnin after Molière (1782), and Fevey to the libretto by Catherine II (1786), as well as by Italian trained Yevstigney Fomin with his \"The Coachmen at the Relay Station\" (\"Yamshchiki na podstave\", 1787), \"Orfey i Evridika\", opera-melodrama to the text by Yakov Knyazhnin (1792), and \"The Americans\" (\"Amerikantsy\", comic opera, 1800).\n\nIn 1746 the first public concert took place in Russia. This soon became a tradition. Concert life was dominated by foreign musicians before Russian virtuosos appeared in the 1780–1790s; these included the violinist Ivan Khandoshkin and singer Elizaveta Sandunova. The senator Grigory Teplov was also an amateur musician who printed in 1751 the collection of his songs entitled \"Idle Hours Away from Work\". Publishing music business, sales of foreign sheet music, and music lovers' periodicals flourished from the 1770s onward.\n\nThe overture and songs from Ivan Kerzelli's opera \"Derevenskiy vorozheya\" (\"The Village Wizard\") were printed in Moscow 1778; they were the first opera fragments printed in Russia. Sales of musical instruments (like keyboards, guitars and harps) were also growing. Sacred music genres were transformed under the foreign influences. The Italian operatic composers such as Galuppi and Sarti were involved in producing liturgies for the church service. The genre of the choral concerto (the cycle of three–four contrast movements) became traditional in liturgic music of Degtyaryov, Vedel, Bortnyansky, Berezovsky, Davydov, and Turchaninov.\n\nSome of the leading figures of the Russian Enlightenment are associated with Freemasonry and Martinism. In the early 1770s, Catherine the Great's secretary Ivan Yelagin succeeded in reorganizing Russian Freemasonry into a far-reaching system that united some 14 lodges and about 400 government officials. He secured English authorization of the first Russian Grand Lodge and became its Provincial Grand Master. Most Russian lodges were attracted to the Swedish Rite. In 1782, Ivan Schwarz, a philosophy professor from Moscow, represented Russia at the Wilhelmsbad conference where Russia was recognized as the 8th province of the Rite of Strict Observance. His friend Nikolay Novikov was in charge of the Moscow lodges. Spooked by the French Revolution, Catherine clamped down on Novikov and other Freemasons in the late 1780s. Her son Paul interdicted all Masonic assemblies in 1799. Novikov and his circle promoted \"prosveshchenie\" which combined religious piety, erudition, and commitment to the spread of learning. However it bore little similarity to the skeptical and critical spirit of the European Enlightenment.\n\nBy 1796, when Emperor Paul succeeded his mother on the Russian throne, the Russian Enlightenment was very much on the wane. Although the new monarch was fiercely opposed to the French libertarian influences, he set free the radical writers imprisoned by his mother, including Novikov and Radishchev. Paul's family enjoyed recitals of didactic fables by Ivan Krylov, a fabulist whose journalistic activity had been denounced by his mother.\n\nThe Informal Committee, instituted by Alexander I of Russia in 1801, may be viewed as the last attempt to implement the ideals of the Enlightenment in the Russian Empire. Mikhail Speransky proceeded to outline an ambitious program of political reform, but his chief propositions were not put into execution until the great reforms of Alexander II half a century later.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1512862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1512862", "title": "Second Generation of Postwar Writers", "text": "Second Generation of Postwar Writers\n\nThe is a classification in modern Japanese literature used for writers who appeared on the postwar literary scene between 1948 and 1949.\n\nExceptional in this generation of postwar writers are Mishima Yukio and Abe Kōbō, both of whom have received acclaim in Japan and abroad. At times, their reputation abroad has surpassed that of their reputation in Japan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "206509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206509", "title": "Simple living", "text": "Simple living\n\nSimple living encompasses a number of different voluntary practices to simplify one's lifestyle. These may include, for example, reducing one's possessions, generally referred to as \"minimalism\", or increasing self-sufficiency. Simple living may be characterized by individuals being satisfied with what they have rather than want. Although asceticism generally promotes living simply and refraining from luxury and indulgence, not all proponents of simple living are ascetics. Simple living is distinct from those living in forced poverty, as it is a voluntary lifestyle choice.\n\nAdherents may choose simple living for a variety of personal reasons, such as spirituality, health, increase in quality time for family and friends, work–life balance, personal taste, financial sustainability, frugality, or reducing stress. Simple living can also be a reaction to materialism and conspicuous consumption. Some cite socio-political goals aligned with the environmentalist, anti-consumerist or anti-war movements, including conservation, degrowth, social justice, and tax resistance.\n\nA number of religious and spiritual traditions encourage simple living. Early examples include the Śramaṇa traditions of Iron Age India, Gautama Buddha, and biblical Nazirites (notably John the Baptist). The biblical figure Jesus is said to have lived a simple life. He is said to have encouraged his disciples \"to take nothing for their journey except a staff—no bread, no bag, no money in their belts—but to wear sandals and not put on two tunics.\" Various notable individuals have claimed that spiritual inspiration led them to a simple living lifestyle, such as Benedict of Nursia, Francis of Assisi, Ammon Hennacy, Leo Tolstoy, Rabindranath Tagore, Albert Schweitzer, and Mahatma Gandhi.\n\nTraditions of simple living stretch back to antiquity, finding resonance with leaders such as Zarathustra, Buddha, Laozi, and Confucius and was heavily stressed in both Greco-Roman culture and Judeo-Christian ethics. Diogenes, a major figure in the ancient Greek philosophy of Cynicism, claimed that a simple life was necessary for virtue, and was said to have lived in a wine jar.\n\nPlain people are Christian groups who have for centuries practiced lifestyles in which some forms of wealth or technology are excluded for religious or philosophical reasons. Groups include the Shakers, Mennonites, Amish, Hutterites, Amana Colonies, Bruderhof, Old German Baptist Brethren, Harmony Society, and some Quakers. There is a Quaker belief called \"Testimony of simplicity\" that a person ought to live her or his life simply.\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau strongly praised the simple life in many of his writings, especially in his \"Discourse on the Arts and Sciences\" (1750) and \"Discourse on Inequality\" (1754).\n\nEpicureanism, based on the teachings of the Athens-based philosopher Epicurus, flourished from about the fourth century BC to the third century AD. Epicureanism upheld the untroubled life as the paradigm of happiness, made possible by carefully considered choices. Specifically, Epicurus pointed out that troubles entailed by maintaining an extravagant lifestyle tend to outweigh the pleasure of partaking in it. He therefore concluded that what is necessary for happiness, bodily comfort, and life itself should be maintained at minimal cost, while all things beyond what is necessary for these should either be tempered by moderation or completely avoided.\nHenry David Thoreau, an American naturalist and author, is often considered to have made the classic secular statement advocating a life of simple and sustainable living in his book \"Walden\" (1854). Thoreau conducted a two-year experiment living a plain and simple life on the shores of Walden Pond.\n\nIn Victorian Britain, Henry Stephens Salt, an admirer of Thoreau, popularised the idea of \"Simplification, the saner method of living\". Other British advocates of the simple life included Edward Carpenter, William Morris, and the members of the \"Fellowship of the New Life\". Carpenter popularised the phrase the \"Simple Life\" in his essay \"Simplification of Life\" in his \"England's Ideal\" (1887).\n\nC.R. Ashbee and his followers also practiced some of these ideas, thus linking simplicity with the Arts and Crafts movement. British novelist John Cowper Powys advocated the simple life in his 1933 book \"A Philosophy of Solitude\". John Middleton Murry and Max Plowman practised a simple lifestyle at their Adelphi Centre in Essex in the 1930s.\nIrish poet Patrick Kavanagh championed a \"right simplicity\" philosophy based on ruralism in some of his work.\n\nGeorge Lorenzo Noyes, a naturalist, mineralogist, development critic, writer, and artist, is known as the Thoreau of Maine. He lived a wilderness lifestyle, advocating through his creative work a simple life and reverence for nature. During the 1920s and 1930s, the Vanderbilt Agrarians of the Southern United States advocated a lifestyle and culture centered upon traditional and sustainable agrarian values as opposed to the progressive urban industrialism which dominated the Western world at that time.\n\nThorstein Veblen warned against the conspicuous consumption of the materialistic society with \"The Theory of the Leisure Class\" (1899); Richard Gregg coined the term \"voluntary simplicity\" in \"The Value of Voluntary Simplicity\" (1936). From the 1920s, a number of modern authors articulated both the theory and practice of living simply, among them Gandhian Richard Gregg, economists Ralph Borsodi and Scott Nearing, anthropologist-poet Gary Snyder, and utopian fiction writer Ernest Callenbach. E. F. Schumacher argued against the notion that \"bigger is better\" in \"Small Is Beautiful\" (1973); and Duane Elgin continued the promotion of the simple life in \"Voluntary Simplicity\" (1981). The Australian academic Ted Trainer practices and writes about simplicity, and established The Simplicity Institute at Pigface Point, some 20 km from the University of New South Wales to which it is attached. A secular set of nine values was developed with the \"Ethify Yourself\" project in Austria, having a simplified life style in mind and accompanied by an online book (2011). In the United States voluntary simplicity started to garner more public exposure through a movement in the late 1990s around a popular \"simplicity\" book, \"The Simple Living Guide\" by Janet Luhrs. Around the same time, minimalism (a similar movement) started to also show its light into the public eye.\n\nSome people practice simple living by reducing consumption. By lowering expenditure on goods or services, the time spent earning money can be reduced. The time saved may be used to pursue other interests, or help others through volunteering. Some may use the extra free time to improve their quality of life, for example pursuing creative activities such as art and crafts. Developing a detachment from money has led some individuals, such as Suelo and Mark Boyle, to live with no money at all. Reducing expenses may also lead to increasing savings, which can lead to financial independence and the possibility of early retirement.\nThe 100 Thing Challenge is a grassroots movement to whittle down personal possessions to one hundred items, with the aim of decluttering and simplifying life. The small house movement includes individuals who chose to live in small, mortgage-free, low-impact dwellings, such as log cabins or beach huts.\n\nOne way to simplify life is to get back-to-the-land and grow your own food, as increased self-sufficiency reduces dependency on money and the economy. Tom Hodgkinson believes the key to a free and simple life is to stop consuming and start producing. This is a sentiment shared by an increasing number of people, including those belonging to the millennial generation such as writer and eco blogger Jennifer Nini, who left the city to live off-grid, grow food, and \"be a part of the solution; not part of the problem.\"\n\nForest gardening, developed by simple living adherent Robert Hart, is a low-maintenance plant-based food production system based on woodland ecosystems, incorporating fruit and nut trees, shrubs, herbs, vines and perennial vegetables. Hart created a model forest garden from a 0.12 acre orchard on his farm at Wenlock Edge in Shropshire.\n\nThe idea of food miles, the number of miles a given item of food or its ingredients has travelled between the farm and the table, is used by simple living advocates to argue for locally grown food. This is now gaining mainstream acceptance, as shown by the popularity of books such as \"The 100-Mile Diet,\" and Barbara Kingsolver's \"Animal, Vegetable, Miracle: A Year of Food Life.\" In each of these cases, the authors devoted a year to reducing their carbon footprint by eating locally.\n\nCity dwellers can also produce fresh home grown fruit and vegetables in pot gardens or miniature indoor greenhouses. Tomatoes, lettuce, spinach, Swiss chard, peas, strawberries, and several types of herbs can all thrive in pots. Jim Merkel says that a person \"could sprout seeds. They are tasty, incredibly nutritious, and easy to grow... We grow them in wide mouthed mason jars with a square of nylon window screen screwed under a metal ring\". Farmer Matt Moore spoke on this issue: \"How does it affect the consumer to know that broccoli takes 105 days to grow a head? [...] The supermarket mode is one of plenty — it's always stocked. And that changes our sense of time. How long it takes to grow food — that's removed in the marketplace. They don't want you to think about how long it takes to grow, because they want you to buy right now\". One way to change this viewpoint is also suggested by Mr. Moore. He placed a video installation in the produce section of a grocery store that documented the length of time it took to grow certain vegetables. This aimed to raise awareness in people of the length of time actually needed for gardens.\n\nThe do it yourself ethic refers to the principle of undertaking necessary tasks oneself rather than having others, who are more skilled or experienced, complete them for you.\n\nPeople who practice simple living have diverse views on the role of technology. The American political activist Scott Nearing was skeptical about how humanity would use new technology, citing destructive inventions such as nuclear weapons. Those who eschew modern technology are often referred to as Luddites or neo-Luddites. Although simple living is often a secular pursuit, it may still involve reconsidering personal definitions of appropriate technology, as Anabaptist groups such as the Amish or Mennonites have done.\n\nTechnological proponents see cutting-edge technologies as a way to make a simple lifestyle within mainstream culture easier and more sustainable. They argue that the internet can reduce an individual's carbon footprint through telecommuting and lower paper usage. Some have also calculated their energy consumption and have shown that one can live simply and in an emotionally satisfying way by using much less energy than is used in Western countries. Technologies they may embrace include computers, photovoltaic systems, wind and water turbines.\n\nTechnological interventions that appear to simplify living may actually induce side effects elsewhere or at a future point in time. Evgeny Morozov warns that tools like the internet can facilitate mass surveillance and political repression. The book \"Green Illusions\" identifies how wind and solar energy technologies have hidden side effects and can actually increase energy consumption and entrench environmental harms over time. Authors of the book \"Techno-Fix\" criticize technological optimists for overlooking the limitations of technology in solving agricultural problems.\n\nAdvertising is criticised for encouraging a consumerist mentality. Many advocates of simple living tend to agree that cutting out, or cutting down on, television viewing is a key ingredient in simple living. Some see the Internet, podcasting, community radio, or pirate radio as viable alternatives.\n\nAnother practice is the adoption of a simplified diet. Diets that may simplify domestic food production and consumption include vegan diets and the Gandhi diet. In the United Kingdom, the Movement for Compassionate Living was formed by Kathleen and Jack Jannaway in 1984 to spread the vegan message and promote simple living and self-reliance as a remedy against the exploitation of humans, animals, and the Earth.\n\nSimple living may be undertaken by environmentalists. For example, Green parties often advocate simple living as a consequence of their \"four pillars\" or the \"Ten Key Values\" of the Green Party of the United States. This includes, in policy terms, their rejection of genetic engineering and nuclear power and other technologies they consider to be hazardous. The Greens' support for simplicity is based on the reduction in natural resource usage and environmental impact. This concept is expressed in Ernest Callenbach's \"green triangle\" of ecology, frugality and health.\n\nMany with similar views avoid involvement even with green politics as compromising simplicity, however, and advocate forms of green anarchism that attempt to implement these principles at a smaller scale, e.g. the ecovillage. Deep ecology, a belief that the world does not exist as a resource to be freely exploited by humans, proposes wilderness preservation, human population control and simple living.\n\nThe alleged relationship between economic growth and war, when fought for control and exploitation of natural and human resources, is considered a good reason for promoting a simple living lifestyle. Avoiding the perpetuation of the resource curse is a similar objective of many simple living adherents.\n\nOpposition to war has led peace activists, such as Ammon Hennacy and Ellen Thomas, to a form of tax resistance in which they reduce their income below the tax threshold by taking up a simple living lifestyle. These individuals believe that their government is engaged in immoral, unethical or destructive activities such as war, and paying taxes inevitably funds these activities.\n\nThe term Bohemianism has been used to describe a long tradition of both voluntary and involuntary poverty by artists who devote their time to artistic endeavors rather than paid labor.\n\nIn May 2014, a story on NPR suggested that positive attitudes towards living in poverty for the sake of art are becoming less common among young American artists, and quoted one recent graduate of the Rhode Island School of Design as saying \"her classmates showed little interest in living in garrets and eating ramen noodles.\"\nA new economics movement has been building since the UN conference on the environment in 1972, and the publication that year of \"Only One Earth\", \"The Limits to Growth\", and \"Blueprint For Survival\", followed in 1973 by \"Small Is Beautiful: Economics As If People Mattered.\"\n\nRecently, David Wann has introduced the idea of “simple prosperity” as it applies to a sustainable lifestyle. From his point of view, and as a point of departure for what he calls real sustainability, “it is important to ask ourselves three fundamental questions: what is the point of all our commuting and consuming? What is the economy for? And, finally, why do we seem to be unhappier now than when we began our initial pursuit for rich abundance?” In this context, simple living is the opposite of our modern quest for affluence and, as a result, it becomes less preoccupied with quantity and more concerned about the preservation of cities, traditions and nature.\n\nA reference point for this new economics can be found in James Robertson's \"A New Economics of Sustainable Development,\" and the work of thinkers and activists, who participate in his \"Working for a Sane Alternative\" network and program. According to Robertson, the shift to sustainability is likely to require a widespread shift of emphasis from raising incomes to reducing costs.\n\nThe principles of the new economics, as set out by Robertson, are the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "48253668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48253668", "title": "Sonata (building design software)", "text": "Sonata (building design software)\n\nSonata was a 3D building design software application developed in the early 1980s and now regarded as the forerunner of today's building information modelling applications.\n\nSonata was commercially released in 1986, having been developed by Jonathan Ingram independently and was sold to T2 Solutions (renamed from GMW Computers in 1987 - which was eventually bought by Alias|Wavefront), and was sold as a successor to GMW's RUCAPS. It ran on workstation computer hardware (by contrast, other 2D CAD systems could run on personal computers). The system was not expensive, according to Michael Phiri. Reiach Hall purchased \"three Sonata workstations on Silicon Graphics machines, at a total cost of approximately £2000 each\" [1990 prices]. Approximately 1000 seats were sold between 1985 and 1992. However, as a BIM application, in addition to geometric modelling, it could model complete buildings, including complex parametrics, costs and staging of the construction process.\n\nA large number of projects were designed and built using Sonata including Peddle Thorp Architect's Rod Laver Arena in 1987, and Gatwick Airport North Terminal Domestic Facility by Taylor Woodrow. The US-based architect HKS used the software in 1992 to design a horse racing facility (Lone Star Park in Grand Prairie, Texas) and subsequently purchased the successor product, Reflex.\n\nThe Sonata business was founded in 1984 and, by one account it \"disappeared in a mysterious, corporate black hole, somewhere in eastern Canada in 1992,\" after new owner Alias Research discontinued marketing of the product. Ingram then went on to develop Reflex, bought out by Parametric Technology Corporation (PTC) in 1996.\n\nAs of 2016, Sonata continues to run on an occasional basis at BAM Construct (UK) in St Albans, making it the oldest running BIM system in the world.\n"}
{"id": "3955891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3955891", "title": "Spatialization", "text": "Spatialization\n\nSpatialization (or spatialisation) is the spatial forms that social activities and material things, phenomena or processes take on in geography, sociology, urban planning and cultural studies. Generally the term refers to an overall sense of social space typical of a time, place or culture.\n\nCognitive maps are one aspect of spatialization, which also includes everyday practice, institutionalized representations (i.e., maps, see cartography) and the imagination of possible spatial worlds (as in the visual puns of the work of the Surrealist painter, René Magritte). See also geographical space, Henri Lefebvre. The origins of the term are in Rob Shields's 1985 \"Introduction\" to a Précis of Henri Lefebvre's \"La Production de l'espace\". where \"social spatialization\" is proposed as an English translation of Henri Lefebvre's French term \"l'espace\". However, Shields embues the concept with a sense of being a general, socio-cultural attribute, as in the work of Michel Foucault who makes one mention of the term but does not theorize it) rather than a spatial regime that is dialectically produced as part of a Marxist mode of production.\n\nSocial spatializations are virtual but manifestly material, in discourse and as frames through which problems are understood. Following Foucault they are \"cultural formations\" relevant at many scales, from gestures and bodily comportment to geopolitical relationships between States (see also Critical geopolitics). On one hand, spatializations are achieved, hegemonic regimes which place and space activities in sites and regions. But on the other hand, spatializations are continually in change as they depend on and reflect peoples' ongoing \"performative\" actualizations of these spatial orders or regimes. However they are contested and the focus of struggles over the meaning of places, or manners, or over the reputation of neighbourhoods.\n\nSpatializations are therefore both ways of fixing in place cultural values and important social meanings, but also change over time. Globalization is an example of the changing spatialization of the world. Examples might include cases where a region becomes stereotyped and idolized as part of the identity of a nation state or culture: the Canadian North (Arctic) and Canadian identity; Karelia and Finnish identity.\n\nThese are often taken up in the media, for example the British North and late 20th-century British working class identity portrayed in the long-running television series \"Coronation Street\". These place-images and regional- and place-myths take on meanings through their similarity or difference from other places people know. Spatialization is argued to be a regime of \"spacings\" and \"placings\" of people and activities. Given activities or behaviours are related to \"places-for-this\" and \"places-for-that.\" Several typical spatializations can be detected: centre-margin, mosaics of different identities, binary divisions (black-white, civilized-barbarian, etc.), near-far continua (local-foreign). \n\nSpatialization offers a way of talking about how place-images and regional- and place-myths, cognitive mappings and so on are part of wider \"formations\" and come to have an economic impact by being put into practice, such as through the marketing of tourism destinations, and the way that the reputations of places and regions becomes a conceptual shorthand which lends credibility to claims and beliefs, such as the truthfulness of a scientific finding (e.g., \"Cambridge\" - whether USA or UK), the believability of a religious claim or an event (e.g., \"Mecca\"), or the trustworthiness of a product (e.g., \"Swiss\" watches). For these reasons, the identities of places are durable and city-marketing fails, place-marketing does not work or city-branding is unsuccessful: the entire network of place-myths has to be reworked if one place-myth is to be altered relative to others.\n\nSpatializations are important for governance by linking \"affect\" and emotion to place and region. They can be referenced in architecture and interior design, for example, in escapist consumer environments such as the West Edmonton Mall\n\n"}
{"id": "52825136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52825136", "title": "Spider-Man (2017 TV series)", "text": "Spider-Man (2017 TV series)\n\nMarvel's Spider-Man, or simply Spider-Man, is an American animated television series based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name. It is a replacement for the previous series, \"Ultimate Spider-Man\", and premiered on August 19, 2017 on Disney XD.\n\nThe series was renewed for a second season in early 2018 which premiered on June 18, 2018.\n\nA gifted teenager named Peter Parker is given spider-like powers when he is bitten by a radioactive spider during a school field trip to Oscorp. After the death of his Uncle Ben at the hands of a Burglar, Parker comes to his own terms of becoming a masked superhero named Spider-Man, learning to balance his crime-fighting career with his new enrollment at Horizon High, a school for students with genius-level intellect.\n\nIn Season Two, Peter Parker will navigate his sophomore year and work at the Daily Bugle while contending with Doctor Octopus. This season will adopt plotlines from \"The Superior Spider-Man\" comics in which Doctor Octopus takes over Spider-Man's body while trapping his mind in the Living Brain.\n\n\n\nIn October 2016, the series was announced by Cort Lane, senior vice president of Marvel Animation, as a replacement for the series' predecessor, \"Ultimate Spider-Man\", which ended its run in early January 2017. It premiered on August 19, 2017 on Disney XD.\n\n\nThe show premiered August 19 on Disney XD in the US, August 28 on Disney XD in India and a simulcast premiere October 14 on Disney Channel and Disney XD in Southeast Asia.\n\nAmy Ratcliffe of IGN gave the first season's premiere a score of 7.4 out of 10, writing that the series \"strikes a solid balance between the familiar and the new, emphasizing qualities and hallmarks Spider-Man is known for while skipping over well-trod territory like showing the origin story.\" She commented, \"Marvel's Spider-Man\" \"has enough of a different approach to make it stand apart from other animated takes on the character,\" such as Doctor Octopus and other notable characters having a change in appearance.\n\n"}
{"id": "33251781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33251781", "title": "The Last Storytellers: Tales from the Heart of Morocco", "text": "The Last Storytellers: Tales from the Heart of Morocco\n\nThe Last Storytellers: Tales from the Heart of Morocco is a book by radio and television journalist Richard Hamilton. The book contains a foreword by the travel writer and publisher Barnaby Rogerson.\n\n\"The Last Storytellers\" explores the roots of traditional storytelling, the background of a number of oral storytellers whom the author met whilst working for the BBC in Morocco, and it contains an anthology of thirty six of the tales they tell.\n\n\"The Last Storytellers\" explores the roots of traditional storytelling, the background of a number of oral storytellers whom the author met whilst working for the BBC in Morocco, and it contains an anthology of thirty six of the tales they tell.\n\nAs a reviewer notes, the famous square and market place Jemaa el-Fnaa in Marrakech has hosted professional storytellers since the foundation of the city in 1070 by the Almoravid leader Abu Bakr ibn Umar. Now, however, only a handful of these storytellers remain at such places, \"captivating audiences with tales and stories of love and death, trickery and justice\", and the art is in decline. In 2008, the United Nations agency UNESCO recognized Jemaa el-Fnaa as the first \"Masterpiece of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity.\"\n\nSpeaking in an interview given to the \"Society for Storytelling\", Richard Hamilton says that he first met the storytellers — \"without exception, elderly men at the end of their career\" — whilst on a related assignment for the BBC at the end of 2006. This interest developed into what he terms \"an obsession\", or calling, to collect as many stories as he could, whilst he still could, with the help of a local resident, Ahmed Tija, who interpreted the Darija Arabic dialect of the storytellers.\n\nIn the same interview, explaining why he thinks the art of traditional storytelling is disappearing, Hamilton suggests that we have become \"obsessed by modern technology and social networking sites and computer games and television to the point where we struggle to sit down for an hour or so to listen\"; that this has had a detrimental effect on our concentration span; and that even Moroccans are \"in a hurry\" and similarly affected by such changes these days.\n\nIn \"Essential Travel\" magazine, the reviewer writes: \"\"The Last Storytellers\" is a truly unique literary concept that puts ancient stories from the Moroccan tradition of oral storytelling into print.\"\n\nIn the Abu Dhabi-based newspaper \"The National\", Noori Passela writes that the stories \"range from expeditions featuring a bold hero and an elusive princess to be won over (The Gazelle with the Golden Horns) to the more symbolic and moral (The Birth of the Sahara). There are also many that border on scandal, using a repertoire of love, lust and betrayal to shock (The Eyes of Ben'Adi). Dramatic fare all around, but with entertainment being the sole purpose, this is hardly a let-down. Instead, this is addictive material.\"\n\nIn the \"New York Journal of Books\", Janice Durante is of the opinion that \"as the pasha does in \"The Red Lantern\", author Hamilton presents readers with a precious gift: a collection of content not quite like anything we’ve heard or seen before. Readers who might never reach Marrakech can find their own oasis by making a cup of mint tea and giving thanks for these enchanting stories rescued from oblivion.\"\n\nIn \"The Times Literary Supplement\", author, Arabist, analyst and desert explorer Eamonn Gearon writes, \"The book's introduction is right to highlight the universal nature of storytelling, not just in the primal urge to tell stories, but also in the common threads that run through these from one side of the globe to the remotest other.\"\n\n\"As for the stories,\" Gearon continues, \"the usual themes are well represented: beautiful maidens; marital infidelity; jealous husbands; cruel sultans; avaricious viziers; poverty; punishment; sorrow; magic; joy; and more than one happy ending.\"\n\nGearon describes \"The Last Storytellers\" as a \"charming, fantastical and lively collection\". \"Like a genie emerging from a flask, \"The Last Storytellers\" produces a startling amount of pleasure from some very small packages [short stories].\" \"Both men [author and interpreter] deserve much praise for the successful outcome of this endeavour.\"\n\nRichard Hamilton has practised as a professional broadcast journalist, correspondent and contributing editor since 1998, working for the BBC News, BBC World Service and on-line. His work has taken him to Madagascar, Morocco and South Africa.\n\nHamilton co-authored the \"Time Out Guide to Marrakech\" and has written throughout his career for various newspapers and magazines, including \"Condé Nast Traveler\" and \"The Times\".\n\nHamilton has an MA in African Studies from the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS). He lives in London, England and is married with two children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13056154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13056154", "title": "Theatrum artis scribendi", "text": "Theatrum artis scribendi\n\nTheatrum Artis Scribendi is a book about calligraphy by Jodocus Hondius. The first edition was published in Amsterdam in 1594; a second edition was published in 1614 by his son, Johannes Janssonius. A facsimile, limited to 300 copies, was published in 1969 by Midland Publishers of the Netherlands. The facsimile was printed by N. Miedma and Co. of Leeuwarden and bound by Van Rijmenam N.V. in The Hague.\n\nTranslated from Latin, the title of the book is \"Theatre of the Art of Writing\". It is an anthology of handwriting specimens by Solomon Henrix, van den Velde, Felix Van Sambix, Curione, M. Martine, Beauchesne, Houthusius, P. Goos, Jacomina Hondius, Peter Bales and other scribes. The book opens with a four page typeset instruction in the art of writing, and is followed by a series of 42 copperplate engravings. Each engraving is a specimen of roman, italic, blackletter, or Hebrew letters, usually accompanied by ornamental swashes, surrounded by an ornate cartouche. Each plate, or series of plates, is signed by its creator.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36944252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36944252", "title": "To Our Beloved Dead", "text": "To Our Beloved Dead\n\n\"To Our Beloved Dead\" is a poem by the Australian poet Professor Leslie Holdsworth Allen.\n\nA sandstone war memorial was designed by architect William Hardy Wilson for Newington College and was dedicated on 11 May 1922 by the Governor-General of Australia, Henry Forster, 1st Baron Forster. Allen wrote the poem in memory of the occasion. The memorial comprises a semi-circular wall and seat, with pillars surmounted by white stone urns at either end and a column with a sundial in the centre.\n\nThe inscriptions on the wall and sundial read:\n\n<poem>\nApproach this shrine of stone beneath the trees\nand drink its whiteness, while the shadows move\nLike the slow march of Time; mellowed and sweet.\nLet the fine memories\nHeld in this quiet guard of love,\nThy soul with limpid mirroring repeat.\n\nAbove its chasteness the faint opal sky\nOf dawn, the turquoise of the burning day,\nThe ruby vapours of the sunset, float\nLike window-stains to lie\nTempering the sombre-shadowed bay\nThat bids thy prayer, sequestered and devote.\n\nThe dusty turmoil and the sultry blast\nIntrude not here. this canopy of leaves\nThe gloom enriches where the dial-blade\nSlays silently the Past.\nYet think not that thy spirit grieves\nOn evanescence eaten by a shade.\n\nTime is no banquet for the barren jaws\nOf death; it is received into a womb\nMade quick with the eternal hour of God.\nBe then thy reverent pause\nNo resignation faint. The Tomb\nMasks deathlessness with the delusive sod.\n\nTurn from this spot inviolate to the fields\nGreen with winter rain. The football leaps\nFrom hand to hand in the swift passing-rush.\nVainly the last man shields\nThe touch-line, and an athlete sweeps\nBehind the goal, lit with exhilarant flush.\n\nThat throng is immortality, the fire\nDeath quenched not in their fathers. Had they known\nTheir anguished fall was but a nothingness,\nWould they, with blenched desire\nPaling, have cried, “What can atone?”\nThose shouts thy answer. Do they live the less?\n\nTwofold the hero’s shrine, bequeathed life,\nAnd life celestial. These twin urns shall hold\nNot remnant ashes but their twofold birth;\nFor sacrificial strife\nIs generation. So doth mould\nThe Potter’s hand the slow, unplastic earth.\n\nThe shouting swells. The game is at its height.\nWhile here the imperceptible shadow glides\nSwift pulses urge the monuments into rout.\nWell that their prodigal flight\nThe dragging hours’ probation hides\nWhen life is summons and the soul is doubt!\n\nYet tested man, kindling at every call.\nBurns into faith, gladder with sterner proof,\nAnd if the clarion call the flesh to bleed,\nMore glad, more glad than all.\nSuch were these fallen, not aloof,\nBut given full-hearted o the bitter need.\n\nLive life, and live it swift in every vein,\nYe players! Let the vivid monuments fly!\nYour hurrying life hoards the enduring mood\nThat steads the grown man’s pain\nWhen, like these dead, prepared to die,\nYe hear the call with manhood’s even blood.\n\nThat hour will come. The scattered clouds of war\nGrowl on the swart horizon. Lust and Hate\nLike half-tamed lions crouch upon the spring.\nAh, when the need is sore\nYe will not fail the fire innate\nYour fathers gave you from their triumphing!\n\nSilent the shrine of stone beneath the trees!\nThe players’ shouting with the ended flight\nDies at the edges of this glimmering bower.\nThe dial fades, and cease\nThe eking minutes ’neath the night.\nHeaven’s fountain breaks and rains the eternal hour.\n</poem>\n"}
{"id": "16822774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16822774", "title": "Tūnui-ā-rangi", "text": "Tūnui-ā-rangi\n\nIn Māori tradition, Tūnui-ā-rangi was one of the great ocean-going, voyaging canoes (or waka) that was used in the migrations that settled New Zealand. The waka is linked to the Ngāi Tāhuhu iwi from the Auckland and Northland regions.\n\n"}
{"id": "3971162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3971162", "title": "Umbrella school", "text": "Umbrella school\n\nAn umbrella school is an alternative education school which serves to oversee the homeschooling of children to fulfill government educational requirements.\n\nUmbrella schools vary greatly in what they offer and cost. Some offer group classes, a defined curriculum, sports, field trips, standardized testing, and more. Others exist only to meet the minimum legal requirements, allowing parents choice in their curriculum and methods of teaching, as well as freedom from an annual evaluation or testing requirements. Additionally, some umbrella schools follow a specific faith, while others are secular.\n\nIn the United States, the responsibilities of umbrella schools vary from state to state. Many states require schools to collect immunization and attendance records, and similar records as required for any publicly run school. Often umbrella schools operate under the same legal guidelines as independent schools. Some states have course and daily time requirements. In others, students are bound to the normal standard school year and records must be kept to prove that students fulfill the required amount of time.\n\n"}
{"id": "21069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21069", "title": "Vorkosigan Saga", "text": "Vorkosigan Saga\n\nThe Vorkosigan Saga is a series of science fiction novels and short stories set in a common fictional universe by American author Lois McMaster Bujold. The first of these was published in 1986 and the most recent in May 2018. Works in the series have received numerous awards and nominations, including five Hugo award wins including one for Best Series.\n\nThe point of view characters include women (Cordelia in \"Shards of Honor\" and \"Barrayar\"; Ekaterin in \"Komarr,\" \"A Civil Campaign\", and \"The Flowers of Vashnoi\"), a gay man (\"Ethan of Athos\"), and a pair of brothers, one of whom is physically handicapped and the other a clone (Miles and Mark Vorkosigan), their cousin (Ivan Vorpatril) together with some minor characters (e.g., Miles' bodyguard Roic and the runaway lad Jin).\n\nThe various forms of society and government Bujold presents often reflect contemporary politics. In many novels, there is a contrast between the technology-rich egalitarian Beta Colony and the heroic, militaristic, hierarchical society of Barrayar, where personal relationships must ensure societal continuity. Miles Vorkosigan, the protagonist of most of the series, is the son of a Betan mother and a Barrayaran aristocrat, embodying this contrast.\nAs in Isaac Asimov's earlier Foundation series, humanity has colonized a galaxy in which there are no competing intelligent species. Since that time (at least 400 years before \"Falling Free\" or 600 years before \"Shards of Honor\"), dozens of planets are colonized and develop divergent cultures. Within the series, exploration and colonization of new planets is still ongoing, most notably on the planet Sergyar.\n\nInterstellar travel is made possible by using spatial anomalies known as wormholes that create tunnels in a five-dimensional space. Typically wormholes are bracketed by space stations, military or commercial, which provide ports for jump travel. Stations may be owned by planetary governments, or by specific commercial organizations, or they may be completely independent of any planetary organization.\n\nThe stories feature several planetary systems, each with its own political organization, including government by corporate democracy, rule by criminal corporations, monarchies, empires and direct democracies. In most cases, there is a single government which dominates the entire planet (an exception is Jackson's Whole). Both Cetaganda and Barrayar have empires, acquired by conquering other planets via neighboring wormholes.\n\nAs a tool to simplify the writing process, Bujold devises a standard system of timekeeping universal to all planets regardless of the length of their day and year. Bujold herself has commented that her posited system is neither technologically nor economically feasible, but is rather a convenience for storytelling.\n\nMost of the technology in the series is based on 20th-century engineering situations, projected into null-g or alternative solar system situations. Biomedical advances such as cloning, artificial wombs (named \"uterine replicators\") and cryochambers to preserve and revive recently deceased people are featured heavily in the series.\n\nBujold presents issues of technological obsolescence and the high rate of failure of R&D projects in personal terms, via bioengineering. Two jump pilots with obsolete navigational brain implants and a number of characters created by genetic manipulation are psychologically stranded by the termination of the program for which they were designed.\n\nThe series features gravity manipulation, both artificially generated in spaceships, or artificially suppressed in ground transport and elevators. \"Falling Free\" and \"Diplomatic Immunity\" explore the relationship between a culture adapted to an environment without gravity and one which depends on gravity.\n\nIn most societies featured in the series, paper has been mostly replaced by either plastic sheets or electronic devices, and two-dimensional video is replaced by three-dimensional holograms, and most characters use portable computers called \"wristconsoles\" and personal computers named \"comconsoles\".\n\nInterstellar messages, however, have to be recorded on a physical disc which is transported through wormholes at a high cost, and relayed between wormholes by the ships' communication systems, imposing both time and cost constraints to interstellar communications.\n\nAs the series features a military background in several novels, special attention is paid to military technology. Ship to ship combat includes plasma rays and attacks based on gravity manipulation and the defense methods against them. Personal combat includes combat suits, plasma rays and nerve disruptors, which are rays that destroy nerve tissue.\n\nBiological weapons are also mentioned in the form of toxin bombs of wide spectrum and genetically modified microbes that target specific races, and in some cases, specific people.\n\nA truth serum, \"fast-penta\", plays a large role in the series when a character has to be interrogated. Several defenses are devised, like induced allergies that kill the subject before they can reveal information, genetic engineering to create immunity, or compartimentalization of information to keep it away from people likely to be interrogated.\n\nIn the Vorkosigan saga, humans live in planets with diverse degrees of habitability, and has developed diverse adaptation strategies to environments that are only approximately fit for human life. Most inhabited planets undergo long term terraforming to make them habitable. In spaceships and space stations, people live in closed ecologies in which air and waste are continuously reprocessed.\n\nMedical advances are a fundamental part of the saga's worldbuilding. The most notorious are \"uterine replicators\", devices who allow complete in vitro reproduction, with gene therapy to correct for congenital defects. It also possibilitates an all-male society in which eggs are produced by ovaries maintained in a lab. Other advances are genetic manipulation to produce microbes an animals tailored for specific purposes, or humans adapted for combat or to live and work in zero gravity. Fertile hermaphrodites have been created in an attempt to surpass gender roles, and medical prolonging of human life has advanced to achieve natural lifespans of 120 years in certain planets. Cloning is featured in the series, prominently in the person of Mark, Miles' clone-brother, and in an industry that grows clones of wealthy people to transplant their brains from elderly bodies to youthful, healthy ones.\n\nBarrayar is an exception to most of these advances due to its history of isolation. Women carrying their babies to term without uterine replicators is the rule at the beginning of the series, and there is an ingrained fear of mutation in its society. The social challenges posed by medical technology are mentioned in the plot of several of the stories.\n\nThe Nexus allows Bujold, paradoxically, to imagine a world in which travel and communication require far more time and effort than in the real-life 21st century, since the wormhole jumps present a special barrier. Each planet is a kind of petri dish in which a particular human culture—derived to some extent from a culture known historically on Earth—thrives and changes. The worlds of Barrayar and Athos suggest aspects of preindustrial Europe and America.\n\nCultures range from the monastic (but not celibate) utopia of Athos to the genetically enhanced and highly aggressive inhabitants of the Cetagandan Empire; from the cut-throat capitalists of Jackson's Whole to moderate and scientific Escobar. The quaddies, genetically engineered to be the perfect zero gravity workers, practice a communalism in which the work gang is the basic unit of governance.\n\nAlthough Bujold explores and satirizes many kinds of societies and prejudices, her universe lacks or fails to consider several sources of social organization and prejudice on Earth: language, skin color, and religion. Except for two scenes in all the novels, all Nexus inhabitants speak English, though they may know other languages or have a planetary accent. A good-looking woman, whether a four-armed quaddie, a Cetagandan haut-lady glimpsed in her floating bubble, or a Barrayaran damsel, has skin comparable to ivory or milk. Notable exceptions include the fact that the most prominent genotype on Barrayar is olive skin (and brown eyes and dark hair) and Tej, who Ivan describes as very pretty and who has coffee brown skin. The one important non-Caucasian character, the Asian Ky Tung, is from Earth. (The Durona group, including Lilly, Lotus, Rowan, Raven and Lilly Junior are also described as Eurasian, and the entire Arqua family—Tej, Pidge, Erik, Stella, Amari and their father—are not caucasian, with a brown skin tone.) Only isolated Athos has a planetary religion, though Cordelia Naismith and Leo Graf (the hero of \"Falling Free\") believe in a God.\n\nInstead, Bujold builds prejudice into the \"locale\", i.e. planetary economics and history. The Barrayarans, with their single wormhole to defend and broadly habitable planet, both need and can afford a militaristic society with a certain amount of internal competition as large families spread out into newly terraformed regions. They see discipline as emanating from the Emperor through the all-male militarized hierarchy. The Betans, on a hostile planet where they must live in domes, rely on industrial export; they limit not only childbearing but also every kind of behavior that might be considered \"antisocial\". From their point of view, Barrayaran society is irrational and backwards, while the Barrayarans view them as undisciplined in every way, referring to a \"Betan vote\" as an obstacle to decision-making. Planets accessible by many wormholes become centers of trade and finance, whether benign (Komarr, Escobar) or malicious (Jackson's Whole); any threat to the pocketbook is resented there. Finally, dwellers in space habitats despise all those who call one planet home as \"dirt suckers\".\n\nIn all the books except \"Ethan of Athos\" and \"Falling Free\", the protagonists are connected to the planet Barrayar, home of the Vorkosigan clan. Bujold devised for this planet a history which allowed for \"swords 'n' spaceships\". Barrayar in the lifetime of Miles Vorkosigan commands spaceships, computers, and other high technology, but its culture remembers dueling, celebrates the Emperor's birthday by handing him bags of gold, and provides liveried life-sworn servants to carry love letters sealed with the writer's blood. In the conservative backwoods, some still practice infanticide if signs of mutation are detected.\n\nBarrayar is a planet colonized by humans some four hundred years prior to \"Shards of Honor\", the first Vorkosigan novel. Shortly after colonization, the 50,000 settlers are cut off by a failure of the sole wormhole connecting Barrayar to the rest of humanity. During the following centuries, referred to as the \"Time of Isolation\", the colony regresses socially and technologically, eventually developing a feudal form of government, in which the Emperor of Barrayar is supported by sixty regional counts and other minor aristocrats, identified by the honorific prefix \"Vor-\" in their names. The Vor caste is a military one, and Barrayaran culture is highly militaristic and hierarchical.\n\nBarrayar is eventually rediscovered by a different wormhole route controlled by the rich merchant planet Komarr. The Komarrans allow the neighboring expansionist Cetagandan Empire to invade Barrayar in return for commercial rights and concessions. Despite a significant technological advantage, the Cetagandans are finally expelled at great cost after many years of occupation and guerrilla warfare, in large part due to the leadership of General Count Piotr Vorkosigan, Miles' paternal grandfather. The Barrayarans then conquer and annex Komarr under the command of Admiral Aral Vorkosigan, Count Piotr's second son.\n\nAral Vorkosigan later meets Cordelia Naismith, an enemy officer from Beta Colony, at the commencement of another war. Forced to work together to survive on a hostile planet, they fell in love and eventually marry, resulting in the birth of Miles.\n\nHowever, an attempt is made to poison Aral during his regency for the child Emperor, Gregor Vorbarra, in which a pregnant Cordelia is exposed to a poison. The side effects of the antidote threaten to kill the fetus, and desperate experimental medical procedures are required to save the unborn baby. Though his frailties are gradually mended, Miles' physical development is severely affected and, as an adult, he is subtly but noticeably misshapen and no taller than an adolescent boy. As a result, he has to deal with the deeply ingrained prejudice against mutants on his native world (though he is not technically one). With nearly pathological determination and high intelligence, aided by his supportive parents and their high social rank, he fashions an extraordinary military and civilian career for himself in the Barrayaran Empire.\n\n\nThree of the novels made the New York Times Bestseller List when first released in hardback: \"A Civil Campaign\" at #26, \"Diplomatic Immunity\" at #25, and \"Cryoburn\" at #32.\nThe novels have been translated into a number of languages and the covers of various international editions has been archived.\n\nA \"Warrior's Apprentice\" comic book was published in France in 2010, which was the first of a projected series called \"La Saga Vorkosigan\".\n\nThe roots of the Vorkosigan Saga lie in an early collection by Bujold called \"Dreamweaver's Dilemma\". The title story features Beta Colony, and another story contains a character named Cordelia Naismith, perhaps a distant ancestor of the Vorkosigan character. When beginning her first novel, \"Shards of Honor,\" Bujold incorporated these elements, but greatly expanded. She followed that up with the second novel with the same setting, \"The Warrior's Apprentice\", then worked on \"Ethan of Athos\". After being rejected by four publishers, \"The Warrior's Apprentice\" was accepted by Baen Books, who agreed to a three-book deal to include the two other novels.\n\n\"Shards of Honor\" and \"Barrayar\" concern Miles' parents, \"Ethan of Athos\" involves a few minor characters from other Vorkosigan novels, and \"Falling Free\" does not involve Miles or any of his family, though in a later novel Miles encounters the descendants of the characters from \"Falling Free\" . While all the books and novellas are currently in print as ebooks, in America they are in print as omnibus editions.\n\nThe Saga's internal chronology does not match the order in which the books were written. Bujold has stated on her blog that she is generally in favor of reading the books in internal chronological order. A more detailed chronology can be found in \"The Vorkosigan Companion\".\n\n\"Dreamweaver's Dilemma\" is a short story set at the beginning of Earth's age of space colonization and genetic manipulation. It was published in the book of the same name, which is a collection of short stories and essays by Bujold that had been previously unpublished and that she gathered together prior to her appearance at a NESFA convention. \"Dreamweaver's Dilemma\" contains the first mention of Beta Colony. It is also the only Vorkosigan Saga story not published or republished by Baen Books.\n\n200 years before the birth of Miles Vorkosigan, engineer Leo Graf encounters the Quaddies, who are genetically engineered to have an extra pair of arms in place of legs in order to work better in free-falling environment of space. Collected in the omnibus edition \"Miles, Mutants and Microbes\".\n\nCaptain Cordelia Naismith of Beta Colony meets and eventually falls in love with Captain Lord Aral Vorkosigan of Barrayar when they are both stranded on an uninhabited planet. After being captured by the Barrayarans and then escaping twice, she returns home a war hero. However, her own people believe she has been brainwashed and try to \"cure\" her of her love for Aral. She eventually flees to Barrayar to be reunited with him. Collected in the omnibus edition \"Cordelia's Honor\".\n\nTwo people retrieve bodies in space near Escobar after the failed Barrayaran invasion. The story was originally a postscript to \"Shards of Honor\" and later included in the omnibus edition \"Cordelia's Honor\".\n\nWhile Cordelia Vorkosigan is pregnant with Miles, an attempted assassination threatens her unborn child's life. Count Vordarian launches a coup. Collected in the omnibus edition \"Cordelia's Honor\".\n\nSeventeen-year-old Miles breaks both legs running an obstacle course, seeming ruining his chance of a military career. On a visit to Beta Colony, he obtains a ship, a pilot, and a contract to run guns to a blockaded government. He eventually acquires a mercenary fleet through brilliant improvisation, sheer audacity and much luck. The unexpected arrival of his cousin Ivan Vorpatril raises Miles' suspicions. He hastens home to foil a plot against his father. Collected in the omnibus edition \"Young Miles\".\n\nMiles has just graduated from the Imperial Academy, and is at home at Vorkosigan Surleau with his parents. A woman from an isolated rural village demands justice for the murder of her baby, who was born with a cleft lip and palate, but was otherwise healthy. Miles' father sends him to investigate as his Voice (representative with full powers) to gain experience. Miles solves the mystery and exercises justice and mercy in appropriate measures. Collected in the omnibus editions \"Young Miles\" and \"Borders of Infinity\".\n\nMiles is shipped off-planet to the Hegen Hub after becoming involved in a mutiny at a training camp and being accused of treason (again). He finds himself having to rescue his friend and Emperor, Gregor Vorbarra. Collected in the omnibus edition \"Young Miles\".\n\nMiles and Ivan are sent to the home world of the Cetagandan Empire to represent Barrayar at an Imperial funeral, and quickly become entangled in a murderous Cetagandan plot. Collected in the omnibus edition \"Miles, Mystery, and Mayhem\".\n\nThis novel does not feature Miles except indirectly; his eventual girlfriend, Commander Elli Quinn of the Dendarii Free Mercenary Fleet, plays a leading role. Collected in the omnibus edition \"Miles, Mystery, and Mayhem\".\n\nMiles travels to Jackson's Whole, ostensibly to buy weapons, but in reality to help geneticist Dr. Hugh Canaba leave his current employer to go to work for Barrayar. Canaba throws a wrench into the works when he refuses to leave without certain experimental samples which he has injected into one of his earlier projects, a prototype \"super-soldier\". Even worse, the \"super-soldier\" has been sold to the paranoid and sadistic Baron Ryoval, whom Miles has recently offended.\n\nMiles breaks into Ryoval's laboratory, but is caught and imprisoned in a utility sublevel where they are also keeping Canaba's dangerous specimen, \"Nine\". This turns out to be an eight-foot-tall warrior, complete with fangs, claws, superhuman strength and speed, and a ravenous appetite. Miles is shocked to find that the creature is female, and, despite her fearsome appearance, intelligent and emotionally vulnerable. She challenges him to prove that he believes she is human by making love to her. Miles gets to indulge his weakness for tall strong women... He offers her a new life with the Dendarii, and a new name: Taura. They escape, committing one supreme act of sabotage and revenge before Dendarii Captain Bel Thorne manages to negotiate a ransom.\n\nMiles finds several aspects of the deal unacceptable and the exchange turns into a minor battle with Ryoval's security. In the course of their hasty departure from the Jackson system, Miles sows confusion by telling different lies (and a couple of vital truths) to Ryoval and his rival half-brother, weapons dealer Baron Fell. Collected in the omnibus editions \"Miles, Mystery, and Mayhem\"; \"Miles, Mutants and Microbes\"; and \"Borders of Infinity\".\n\nMiles goes undercover and allows himself to be captured by the Cetagandans, who have invaded and occupied the planet Marilac, in order to infiltrate a maximum-security POW camp on Dagoola IV. His mission is to get the Marilacan commander out, but he has to improvise when he finds the man catatonic and on the verge of death.\n\nWith a little help from Suegar, an apparent religious fanatic, and Tris, the leader of the female prisoners, he instills order and hope in the apathetic, distrustful inmates, makes them rehearse for quick embarkation (disguised as a food distribution procedure), and stages one of the largest mass breakouts in history. As a result, the Cetagandans put a price on Naismith's head. At this point, they (along with nearly everyone else) are unaware that Naismith and Miles Vorkosigan are one and the same. Collected in the omnibus editions \"Miles Errant\" and \"Borders of Infinity\".\n\nOn the run from Cetagandans furious about his Dagoola IV escapade, Miles and his fleet reach the relative safety of Earth. When he reports to the Barrayaran Embassy there, he is made the Third Military Attaché. Miles is captured, and his clone, trained as an assassin by Komarrans bent on exacting a measure of revenge for the conquest and annexation of their planet, is successfully substituted for him. Collected in the omnibus edition \"Miles Errant\".\n\nThe novellas \"Mountains of Mourning\", \"Labyrinth\", and \"The Borders of Infinity\" were reprinted with an untitled framing story in which Miles reports to Simon Illyan, head of ImpSec. The framing story emphasizes an audit—both financial and political—of ImpSec, questioning Miles' activities and expenditures during the previous adventures. This volume is short-novel length. The novellas are currently in print as part of other omnibus volumes but without the tie-together framing story.\n\nPretending to be Miles, Mark takes part of the Dendarii on a mission to free clones from Jackson's Whole, but is soon surrounded by the enemy. When Miles comes to the rescue, things go very badly wrong. Collected in the omnibus edition \"Miles Errant\".\n\nAfter Miles is forced to resign from ImpSec for covering up his new medical disability, he finds himself temporarily appointed an Imperial Auditor, with sweeping powers and answerable only to the Emperor, to investigate the sudden mental impairment of ImpSec chief Simon Illyan.\n\nMiles Vorkosigan accompanies fellow Imperial Auditor Professor Vorthys to Komarr to investigate a serious accident in space which may have been sabotage. There, he manages to defeat plotters who seek to seal off the only wormhole to Barrayar, and falls in love with his hostess, Ekaterin Vorsoisson, who is trapped in an unhappy marriage.\n\nThis novel is notable for the switching of viewpoints between its two protagonists as part of the structure of a given scene. For instance, the scene of Ekaterin's questioning with fast-penta begins from her viewpoint, but as the drug takes hold (and the novel begins a new chapter) it continues from Miles's viewpoint. This technique is expanded in the next novel where multiple viewpoints are used. Collected in the omnibus edition \"Miles in Love\".\n\nAs Barrayar prepares for Emperor Gregor Vorbarra's wedding to a Komarran heiress, Miles attempts to court Ekaterin Vorsoisson without her knowledge. Part of the omnibus edition \"Miles in Love\".\n\nThis novella was published in February 2004 as part of the anthology \"Irresistible Forces\" (Catherine Asaro, editor). Bujold wrote this after completing \"Diplomatic Immunity\".\n\nThe wedding of Miles and Ekaterin is recounted from the viewpoint of Miles' Armsman Roic. Miles introduces Roic to Taura on her first (and due to her short life expectancy, probably her last) visit to Barrayar. The pair get along well, despite her rather unusual appearance. However, their blossoming romantic relationship is shattered when he makes a careless remark about \"hideous, bioengineered mutants\" —referring to the 'butter bugs' in Mark's latest commercial venture. Taura is hurt and insulted.\n\nWhen Ekaterin is taken ill, Taura traces the cause to a string of pearls that had apparently been sent by current Dendarii Admiral (and Miles's ex-lover) Elli Quinn, and which do not look right to her augmented vision. With Roic's help, she brings it to the attention of ImpSec. The poisoned pearls are traced to a newly acquired enemy of Miles's. Ekaterin recovers, and the wedding goes smoothly.\n\nThat night, Roic is on guard when Taura joins him. She tells him that she probably only has a year or two left to live, and therefore takes everything as it comes. Roic replies, \"Can you teach me to do that?\" Collected in the omnibus edition \"Miles in Love\".\n\nOn the way back from his honeymoon, Miles is dispatched to Quaddiespace to untangle a diplomatic incident. Collected in the omnibus edition \"Miles, Mutants and Microbes\".\n\nOn Komarr, Ivan is asked by an ImpSec friend to protect a pretty young woman targeted by a criminal gang, and stumbles into a conspiracy involving Jackson's Whole politics, hired assassins, criminal syndicates, and an old and potentially dangerous secret on Barrayar. And embarrassing in-laws.\n\nStill new to her duties as Lady Vorkosigan, Ekaterin is working together with an expatriate scientist on a radical scheme to recover the lands of the Vashnoi exclusion zone, the lingering radioactive legacy of the Cetagandan invasion of the planet Barrayar. When the scientist’s experimental bioengineered creatures go missing, the pair discover that the zone still contains deadly old secrets.\n\nMiles investigates a cryogenic corporation on the planet Kibou-daini, with the assistance of Jin, a local boy.\n\nThree years after the death of Aral Vorkosigan, Admiral Jole of the Sergyar Fleet (who once was Aral's subordinate as well as lover) receives a proposal. Aral's widow Cordelia plans to use the genetic material she and Aral had saved and offers him the option of fathering children from his genes and some of Aral's frozen gametes.\n\nWith the publication of \"Cryoburn\", almost all Vorkosigan tales are available as free e-texts on a CD that accompanied the hardcover release. This CD was initially shared online, but has since been withdrawn by request of the author.\n\nThe earlier novels (except \"Memory\") and the short stories (except \"Dreamweaver's Dilemma\") have been repackaged in omnibus editions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3509666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3509666", "title": "Œil du prince", "text": "Œil du prince\n\nL'œil du prince (\"the prince's eye\") is a French expression popularized by Nicola Sabbatini (1574–1654), an Italian stage designer and architect of the Renaissance in his famous treatise published in 1638. It is an imaginary point in the audience of a theatre, located in its central axis, approximately 0.6 m (18 inches) above the stage, and at a distance equal to the stage's width. In most theaters it corresponds more or less to the seventh row of seats. Sabbatini, in a chapter in his book, describes ‘How to Place the Prince’s Seat’, where \"all the objects in the scene appear better... than from any other place\". It is considered the best place and the most coveted one in the audience, which was reserved for the nobility (thus the reference to the prince). Due to the importance of these spectators, of course, many theater shows had their main movements and happenings designed in order to attract the attention of the prince's eye.\n\nThe usefulness of this point is that it permits the stage designer to calculate the perspective angles of the scenes (decoration) on the stage, as viewed from a central place (the focal point). Beginning in the 17th century, Italian theatrical decoration became very influential in the use of constructions in perspective, which added greater realism to depth perception by the audience. Thus, it satisfied the baroque ideal of opening towards the infinity. Sabbatini and others also invented the scene wings which run on grooves in the floor, allowing a quicker change of decorations during the intermissions. These innovations produced what became known as the \"scènes à l’italienne\" in theatres in Italy, France and elsewhere in Europe.\n\nIn a metaphorical sense, the French language also uses the expression to typify any privileged view of an observer (such as in \"he had the eye of the prince when he was covering Iraq's war\"), or also in a way of acting so as to please the privileged observer (such as in \"he tried to conquer the eye of the prince in his report\").\n\n\n"}
