{"id": "26642034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26642034", "title": "2010 cash for influence scandal", "text": "2010 cash for influence scandal\n\nThe 2010 cash for influence scandal was a political scandal in the United Kingdom. It was brought to public and widespread media attention by a March 2010 documentary by Dispatches in which a journalistic sting operation recorded and revealed Members of Parliament and the Lords offering to work for a fictitious political lobbying firm for fees of £3,000 to £5,000 per day.\n\nTwenty politicians were approached by the documentary: fifteen agreed to meet, ten arranged meetings, and of those ten, nine were secretly filmed. These nine included the Conservative MP, Sir John Butterfill and Labour Party MPs Stephen Byers, Patricia Hewitt, Geoff Hoon, Richard Caborn, Adam Ingram and Margaret Moran. The Labour members were all due to stand down at the next general election and all but Moran have been cabinet ministers. Byers had been Transport Secretary (resigned 29 May 2002);Hoon Defence and then Transport Secretary (resigned 5 June 2009); Hewitt Health Secretary (resigned 27 June 2007); Caborn Minister for Sport (Resigned 28 June 2007) and Ingram was Minister of State for the Armed Forces (Resigned 29 June 2007). In 2009 after criticism surrounding her expense claims the Labour Party had barred Moran from standing again.\n\nConservative MP Julie Kirkbride was one of the politicians approached by the fake agency established by the programme, but declined to assist them. It was reported that an unnamed Conservative MP did agree to work for the fake agency.\n\nThe bogus firm was named Anderson Perry, after the Marxist historian Perry Anderson.\n\nMembers of Parliament were invited to an interview by an undercover reporter claiming to be the director of a company hoping to influence policy. They were met and secretly recorded. The story was broken by \"The Sunday Times\" Insight team and followed up with the Dispatches documentary. Amongst the controversial comments made to the reporter were Geoff Hoon saying he wanted to make \"some real money,\" Margaret Moran boasting she could call on a \"girls' gang\" of female ministers to help the fictitious company, and Stephen Byers describing himself as \"sort of like a cab for hire.\"\n\nByers made claims of having influenced government policy in the past for money. He claimed to have spoken with Peter Mandelson and Lord Adonis in the past to influence outcomes for National Express and Tesco. Lord Adonis admitted having private discussions with Byers about it but denied that he had \"come to any arrangement\", and Mandelson said he remembered no such discussion or meeting. Byers later withdrew his name for consideration by the fictitious lobbying company via email, claiming he had over-stated his role and wrote \"I have not spoken to Andrew Adonis or Peter Mandelson about the matters I mentioned.\" When the story broke, National Express and Tesco also denied there was any truth in Byers' statements.\n\nConservative MP Sir John Butterfill was also implicated and offered to lobby to benefit the fictitious company and use his political connections for a payment of £35000 a year. Butterfill was also seen on the programme saying that it was likely that he would be made a peer and go to the House of Lords, the following day the leader of the Conservative Party, David Cameron said, \"I can tell you that is not going to happen.\"\n\nGeoff Hoon was interviewed shortly after a trip to Washington where he had undertaken \nIn the interview he went on to state that \nand further argued that \n\nForeign Secretary David Miliband said he was \"appalled\" and Chancellor Alistair Darling said it was \"ridiculous\". Norman Baker, of the Liberal Democrats, will be referring the matter to the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards. The leader of the Opposition, David Cameron, described the matter as \"shocking\" and called for an inquiry. Stephen Byers referred himself to the parliamentary commissioner for standards.\n\nOn 22 March 2010 it was announced that Patricia Hewitt, Geoff Hoon, Margaret Moran and Stephen Byers had been suspended from the Parliamentary Labour Party. Geoff Hoon told the BBC that Gordon Brown had told him he would no longer be performing unpaid work with NATO on behalf of the government. Meanwhile, David Cameron launched a call for a full inquiry.\n\nOn 9 December 2010, Geoff Hoon along with Stephen Byers and Richard Caborn were banned from parliament, the Standards and Privileges Committee banned Geoff Hoon for a minimum five years as his was the most serious breach, whilst Byers received two years and Caborn six months.\n\nThe media was especially critical of Stephen Byers, who claimed to have lobbied for money in the past.\n"}
{"id": "30473065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30473065", "title": "2011 in politics", "text": "2011 in politics\n\nThese are some of the notable events relating to politics in 2011.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58004184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58004184", "title": "2018 Israeli LGBT's strike", "text": "2018 Israeli LGBT's strike\n\nOn July 22, 2018 Israeli LGBTs went on strike for the day to protest against the discrimination of the LGBT community on the Israeli Surrogacy Law, and the continuing violence towards the Israeli trans community. During the strike, that was held on the same day as the fast of Tisha B'Av, many organizations and companies allowed their employees to be absent to participate in the many protest events that were held throughout the day across the country, including Tel Aviv-Jaffa, Jerusalem, Haifa, Beersheba, Ra'anana and other cities.\n\nThe strike was the first LGBT strike in history.\n\nFollowing a Supreme Court case regarding the Israeli Surrogacy Law that was legislated in 1997, appealing to include gay couples in the law, the State's response to the court was that the law will be amended. To make the appropriate changes, the government formed several professional health committees, such as the Mor-Yosef committee, that passed along its recommendations to Minister of Health, Yael German. After the 34th government was formed, headed by Benjamin Netanyahu, this issue was discussed in the Knesset's Labour, Welfare, and Health Committee headed by Eli Alaluf. In the proceedings to bring the bill to a second and third reading, the committee voted to add single women to the bill, while still excluding single men and gay couples from using surrogacy.\n\nThe bill was brought to its second and third reading on July 18, 2018, with reservations, including one by Amir Ohana of the Likud Party, adding single men to the bill. Because of the stance declared by the ultra-orthodox factions in the coalition, headed by the United Torah Judaism, the coalition decided to oppose the reservation while supporting the original amendment.\nPrior to the vote, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu published a video to his Facebook page, explaining that he will support a future amendment to the bill that will be brought by MK Ohana during the Knesset's Winter Session, to allow single men to use surrogacy in Israel, but despite his support, he voted against Ohana's reservation. The Knesset than passed the amended bill in its original form with 59 for and 52 against.\n\nOther pressing issues during that time were several lesbian couples who are fighting for the state's recognition of their joint parenthood, and in at least one case that went public, 2 women found out that they were unilaterally removed as the second parents from their children's birth certificates.\n\nEven before the vote, on July 14 and July 17, demonstrations against it were held in Tel Aviv and in Jerusalem. On July 19, protesters walked to the government office building in Tel Aviv.\n\nAround the same time, on July 17, a sex worker trans woman was stabbed in her apartment in south Tel Aviv.\n\nAs a result of the vote on the bill and the reservation, The Aguda called members of the LGBT community to strike on Sunday, July 22 (Sunday being the first workday in Israel).\n\nThe roots for this strike were planted a year prior to that, in a cooperation of LGBT organizations in the country. The idea started rolling after a protest in July 2017, which brought around 15,000 protesters against the Ministry of Welfare's stance in a Supreme Court hearing regarding adoption by same-sex couple. In a position paper presented to court, the ministry claimed that same-sex parents are \"anomalous\" and therefore cannot become adoptive families. After receiving a lot of public pressure, welfare minister Haim Katz announced that he plans on changing the ministry's stance on this issue. In order to plan the strike, many PR and advertising agencies and journalists were contacted to pressure companies in Israel to prepare for a future strike.\n\nWhen the new surrogacy law passed in the Knesset, to include only single women but not single men or gay couples, in a way perceived as discriminatory, the LGBT organizations, headed by the Aguda, decided to implement the strike plan immediately.The organizers contacted CEO's and prominent public figures and asked them to join the strike and have their companies and organizations publish their support. Most of them agreed, though some in some cases they gave their support after being told by the organizers that their lack of support will be made public on media and on social media. An Israeli economic publication, The Marker, posted a list of companies that refused to support the strike.\n\nMany Israeli companies and workers unions announced that they will allow their employees to strike in order to attend the protests, without risking their jobs or deducting their pay. In the few days before the strike, more than 250 publicly and privately own businesses announced their support for LGBT equality, and allowed their employees to stay home in order to strike and attend the protests. Some of the companies allowed their employees to use a personal day or an elective day, while some gave the employees a paid one-day leave. One of the first companies to join the strike was Microsoft Israel, that later announced that it will give its employees a grant if they choose and need to use surrogacy outside the country. The companies that supported were from various sectors: law firms, restaurants, architecture firms, communication providers, travel agencies and hi-tech companies, along with big public and government sector organizations, including Ben Gurion Airport, Haifa and Ashdod ports, El-Al and Israir, Teva, Tnuva, cellphone, landline, cable and satellite providers, municipalities, hospitals and emergency services, food chains and supermarkets, banks, credit card companies and more. This was the biggest ever support by businesses for a social cause in Israel, and the first LGBT strike in the world.\n\nIsrael's Workers' Union, the Histadrut, issued a statement that is supports both the protest and the strike, and called employers in the public and private sector to allow employees to strike without harming their rights.\n\nDuring the day of the strike, some 1000 strikers in Tel Aviv demonstrated and marched from the government office building on HaShalom Intersection, through Ayalon Highway to Rothschild Boulevard, where a field studio was built, broadcasting live interviews throughout the day. In Jerusalem's France (Paris) Square, outside the Prime Minister's official residence, 250 protesters demonstrated and blocked roads. The police detained 3 demonstrators only to release them later that day. More demonstrations were held around the country – in Haifa's main road, the entrance to Karmiel and other major junctions across the country.\n\nRoads were blocked by protesters in several cities, some of them were main city roads. Around 1000 protesters blocked HaShalom intersection and marched down to the highway, chanting about equality for all, social justice and government-backed discrimination. Protesters also blocked roads in other cities; In a demonstration on Ragher avenue, the main road in Beersheba, a driver tried running over a protester. The end of the protest day was marked with a march in Florentin in south Tel Aviv, supporting the transgender community, following an attempted murder of a trans woman sex worker a few days prior. This attack was the peak of many transphobic acts of violence in Israel. The march ended in the Tel Aviv Central Bus Station, a location known as a center of prostitution, and was attended by around 6000 people, making it the largest transgender demonstration in Israel, to date.\n\nThe strike day, along with its demonstrations and protests against anti-LGBT discrimination and violence, culminated in a rally in Rabin Square in central Tel Aviv. According to police estimate, between 80,000 and 100,000 people attended that rally. The rally was hosted by TV presenters Lucy Aharish and Nadav Borenstein, and among the speakers were former parliament member and longtime human rights activist Yael Dayan, actress Orna Banai, and Orly and Ravit Weiselberg-Tzur, who were to appear in front of the Supreme Court the next day in their case pleading to register both of them as their son's parents. Many artists also performed at the rally, like Rita, Dana International, Ilay Botner, Ran Danker, Korin Alal, Rona Kenan and others. All main Israeli broadcast networks dedicated a major part of their programs to the strike, and broadcast live from different demonstrations across Israel, from the strike headquarters in Rothschild Avenue and from the rally in Rabin Square.\n"}
{"id": "49411464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49411464", "title": "All-America Anti-Imperialist League", "text": "All-America Anti-Imperialist League\n\nThe All-America Anti-Imperialist League (also known as Anti-Imperialist League of the Americas, Spanish: \"Liga Antiimperialista de las Americas\" (\"LADLA\")) was an international mass organization of Communist International established in 1925 to organize against American and European commercial expansion and military intervention in Central America, South America, and the Caribbean.\n\nThe organization was terminated in 1933 and replaced by a new Communist Party-sponsored group, the American League Against War and Fascism.\n\nIn the early 1920s, many Communist Parties affiliated with the Communist International (Comintern) maintained \"Anti-Imperialist Departments\" dedicated to building broad coalitions in opposition to the economic and military intervention of capitalist powers in the affairs of smaller colonial nations. In the Western hemisphere this took the form of organizing against the expansion of American commercial influence in the developing nations of Central and South America as well as the Caribbean basin, including especially Mexico, the Dominican Republic, Cuba, and Nicaragua.\n\nIn the United States itself, the Anti-Imperialist Department of the well-funded Workers (Communist) Party of America was Charles Shipman (1895-1989), a draft-resisting American expatriate to Mexico who as \"Jesús Ramírez\" had been a delegate representing that country at the 2nd World Congress of the Comintern. In addition to Latin American concerns, Shipman's department had also propagandized against American commercial and military involvement in other parts of the globe, including particularly the Philippines and China.\n\nIn April 1925 Shipman was dispatched to Mexico as the representative of the Workers Party to the 3rd Congress of the Communist Party of Mexico. It was at this time that a new international organization was launched, the All-America Anti-Imperialist League — an organization which would eventually include national sections throughout Latin America. The term \"All-America\" in the organizational moniker was not intended to relate specifically to the United States, but rather to the fact that the organization included sections from throughout the Americas.\n\nAlthough itself an international group, the All-American Anti-Imperialist League was in turn attached to another Comintern-sponsored international organization, the League Against Imperialism. This federation included other similar regional organizations to the All-American Anti-Imperialist League, groups engaged in parallel activity in other parts of the world.\n\nIn the United States Charles Shipman was named as Secretary of the American Section of the All-American Anti-Imperialist League and given the task of formally organizing units of the new group. Speakers were sent to trade union locals in an effort to stir up interest but the effort was largely futile, with these representatives generally denied admission. The cause was more successfully promoted in the labor press, however, with the Communist-controlled Federated Press news service providing substantial coverage of the organizing effort.\n\nThe organizing effort benefited from a sizable donation by wealthy Chicago liberal William H. Holly, and a number of prominent public figures allowed their names to be used on the group's letterhead to bolster fundraising, including NAACP executive William Pickens, civil liberties activist Roger Baldwin, literary critic Lewis Gannett, and public intellectuals Robert Morss Lovett and Arthur Garfield Hays. These friendly non-communist figures were joined in the public spotlight by a number of well-known public figures who maintained Workers Party membership, including writer Scott Nearing and trade union official William Z. Foster.\n\nIn later years the All-America Anti-Imperialist League was known simply as the \"Anti-Imperialist League.\" The organization maintained its headquarters in a single room located at 32 Union Square, New York City, part of a suite occupied by the Communist-sponsored literary magazine, \"The New Masses.\" Membership in the American Section of the league was through payment of annual dues of $1 — although donations of $10 from those with the means to pay were actively solicited.\n\nOn January 13, 1927, Secretary of State Frank B. Kellogg garnered front page headlines across America when he presented an extensive statement to the Foreign Affairs Committee of the United States Senate. Kellogg depicted the All-American Anti-Imperialist League as the bulwark of Soviet revolutionism in the Western Hemisphere.\n\nKellogg told the assembled Senators: \"The Bolshevik leaders have very definite ideas with respect to the role which Mexico and Latin America are to play in their general program of world revolution. Thus, Latin America and Mexico are conceived as a base for activities against the United States.\" He pointedly noted the Mexican focus of operations of the All-American Anti-Imperialist League, publishing center of the international organization.\n\nIn February 1927, Secretary of the American Section Charles Shipman other national leaders of the Anti-Imperialist League were made a delegate to an international convention in Brussels sponsored by the Communist International, called the Congress Against Colonial Oppression and Imperialism.\n\nIn 1933 the All-America Anti-Imperialist League was formally terminated and a new organization launched in its stead, the American League Against War and Fascism. The new organization focused instead on the developing political situation in Europe, attempting to build a Popular Front in opposition to fascist Germany and Italy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25532543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25532543", "title": "American Populist Party", "text": "American Populist Party\n\nThe American Populist Party, founded in 2009, was a minor political party which claims to advocate \"classical liberalism\" and a return to what they call \"genuine\" Constitutional government. As such it is an amalgam of classical liberalism and modern conservatism. The American Populist Party should not be confused with the Populist Party of America or any of the several other American parties called \"Populist\", and it has no relationship to several historical parties of the same name. The American Populist Party is a coalition of grass roots activists, ranging in political ideology from the left to the right, who are working to enact Constitutional reforms through the amendment process.\n\nThe American Populist Party was founded in early 2009 with the intent of introducing a series of 14 Constitutional Amendments to guarantee that the United States government respects the limits prescribed for it by the People. Since October 2009 the party opened offices in five states, including California, Colorado, Texas, Illinois, and Pennsylvania. The party identified with historical parties of the same name, in the areas of preventing poverty, curtailing corporate abuses, and the quest for a sound monetary policy. It diverges from them with its emphasis on Constitutional methods to accomplish those goals.\n\nThe American Populist Party is based on the classical political ideology of the key Founding Fathers of the United States of America. It invokes natural rights as espoused by John Locke, and idealizes Rousseau's philosophy of the social contract. The party platform considers the US Constitution to be an affirmative grant of limited powers by the people to the federal government, for the express purpose of protecting the natural rights of individuals as well as the integrity and sovereignty of the several states. As such it emphasizes checks and balances and the separation and non-delegation of powers. The party platform adheres to the practical pillars of modern conservatism, including small government, fiscal sanity, a sound defense posture, and the preservation of individual rights and freedoms, but it rejects social conservatism in favor of libertarian social ideals. The platform emphasized the importance of limiting special interest influence in national politics, and advocates fiscal transparency through rigorous audits and oversight, as well as background checks for elected officials. The party's proposed Constitutional amendments were focused in three areas: fiscal limits on the federal government, restoring the balance of political power between the States and the federal government, and constraining the judiciary regarding the interpretation of the Constitution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33494878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33494878", "title": "Arab Revolutionary Workers Party", "text": "Arab Revolutionary Workers Party\n\nThe Arab Revolutionary Workers Party ( \"Hizb Al-'Amal Al-Thawriy Al-'Arabi\") is a political party active in Iraq and Syria. As of 2008 the general secretary of the party is Abdul Hafiz Hafiz. As of 2011, the chairman of the party is Tariq Abu Al-Hassan.\n\nThe party was founded in 1966 by Yasin al-Hafiz, as a Marxist splinter group of the Ba'ath Party. The party rejected the Ba'athist ideology of Michel Aflaq as reactionary and backward-looking. Instead the party opted for scientific socialism. Another early prominent leader of the party was Ali Salah Saadi. This split in the Ba'ath Party emerged parallel to the growth of leftist dissent in the Arab Nationalist Movement.\n\nThe party was active in Lebanon during the 1970s. During the initial years of the Lebanese Civil War (1975–76), al-Hafiz lived in Beirut. Al-Hafiz died in Beirut in October 1978.\n\nDuring the \"Damascus Spring\", the initial period of Bashar al-Assad's rule, the party could meet somewhat undisturbed under the guise of the 'Left Forum'. The party, along with other left-wing groups in Syria, decided to boycott the 2003 parliamentary election. The party was one of the forces behind the National Democratic Gathering and the Damascus Declaration.\n\nThe party is part of the Syrian opposition and was active in the civil uprising phase of the Syrian Civil War. On June 30, 2011 the party took part in forming the National Coordination Committee for Democratic Change. A politburo member of the party, Hazem Al-Nahhar was included in the leadership of the Association. On October 10, 2011 the party decided to withdraw from the Coordination, but retained its commitment to working with the National Democratic Rally.\n"}
{"id": "8733411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8733411", "title": "Attempts at reconciliation in Somalia (1991–2004)", "text": "Attempts at reconciliation in Somalia (1991–2004)\n\nMany factions opposed to Siad Barre set aside tribal and political differences to unite in purpose to overthrow his regime. After the collapse of Siad Barre's government in 1991 the nation fell into a long period of increasingly chaotic conflict between forces of clans, militias, warlords, separatist, religious functions and rebellion movements, other nations, and even the United Nations Peace Keepers. \n\nThe powers that overthrew Siad Barre were composed of various clan-predominated factions, from the Hawiye-based United Somali Congress (USC) to the Ogadeni and Harti Somali Patriotic Movement (SPM), the Gadabursi-based Somali Democratic Alliance (SDA), Majerteen-based Somali Salvation Democratic Front (SSDF) and the Isaaq-based Somali National Movement (SNM).\n\nVarious peacemaking and peacekeeping efforts were attempted, but all were destined for failure until most all parties had agreed to the formation of a new international community-backed Transitional Federal Government, which finally occurred 2004 in Djibouti.\n\nDuring the Somali civil war, a \"Manifesto\" was produced and supported by many of the rebel leaders. From this \"Manifesto,\" a rebel government was formed in January 1991. Because the \"Manifesto\" was mostly supported by the United Somali Congress, this governmental movement became known as \"USC 91.\" However, since not all rebel leaders were signatories, and because many other factions did not wish to submit to the USC's leadership, the \"Manifesto\" or \"USC 91\" government failed to be recognized as legitimate by all parties and was not recognized by the international community.\n\nThe first attempt at Somali national reconciliation was conference was held in Djibouti, between 5–11 June 1991 (Djibouti I). Four factions participated. A second conference (Djibouti II) was held in Djibouti in July 1991, but neither produced significant results.\n\nIn late 1992, UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali proposed an expansion of the UN humanitarian mission to Somalia to include nation building activities, including the disarming of the warring militias of the country. However, in a Time Magazine article from December 28, 2002, US Special Envoy Robert B. Oakley, said three things were important to a Somali man: \"his camel, his wife and his weapon. The right to bear arms is in their soul.\"\n\nAs Oakley astutely observed, the UN missions to Somalia would not result in the disarmament of the many factions of the Somali Civil War. Too many warlords, as well as too many common Somalis, wished to keep their weapons, and to keep their feuds alive. In 1995, the last of the UN peacekeepers were pulled out of Somalia.\n\nUN Security Council intervention in Somalia's Civil War went back to Resolution 733, an arms control provision which established a weapons embargo on the country.\n\nThe list of UN missions to Somalia, and their US operations names, are as follows:\n\nIn early 1993, concurrent with the UNOSOM I humanitarian mission, fifteen of the warring parties of the Somali Civil War signed two agreements for national reconciliation and disarmament: an agreement to hold an Informal Preparatory Meeting on National Reconciliation, followed by the 1993 Addis Ababa Agreement made at the Conference on National Reconciliation in Somalia. Fighting continued, and the agreement later fell apart.\n\nOrganized by IGAD, and held in Sodere, Ethiopia, but boycotted by Hussein Aidid's faction as well as the newly-declared government of Somaliland. A similar conference in Sana'a, Yemen, did not include all the parties of the conflict, and was rejected by those not attending.\n\nHussein Aidid and representatives from 25 clans attended a peace conference in Cairo, in December 1997. While the UN Security Council lauded the efforts, which included decisions to adopt \"a federal system with regional autonomy and agreement to form a transitional government of national unity,\" it still left the country without a national leader, many of the non-attendees balking at the results, and none of the Somali factions agreeing to disarm. Hussein Aidid and Ali Mahdi were considered opposed to the proposed settlements.\n\nThe conference was postponed indefinitely and then cancelled after continuous fighting in the city throughout the early part of the year made it impossible to ensure security. Cholera had also broken out in Baidoa around that time. By June, Osman Hassan Ali \"Ato\" declared the Cairo peace process \"dead.\"\n\nOfficially dubbed the Somalia National Peace Conference (SNPC), and sometimes called the Djibouti conference, this was a series of meetings held in Arta, Djibouti, on April 20 - May 5, 2000. The conference was aimed at bringing together representatives of the warring factions of Somalia to end the civil war that had claimed over 300,000 lives. The name Transitional National Government (TNG) was selected for the movement at this time.\n\nAnnex II of the program for the Conference dealt with cease-fire, disarmament and security. It emphasized:\n\nThe desire of the Somali people for peace and security through disarmament is unambiguous. This call is heard repeated throughout the country from all segments of the Somali society, who have consistently demand (sic) an end to violence. Unless this is realized, the entire process of reconciliation, rehabilitation and reconstruction would be jeopardized, if not stillborn. One of the first responsibilities of Somalia's new transitional government will be to insist on an immediate and comprehensive cease-fire, together with binding, complete and simultaneous disarmament of al (sic) militias throughout the country consistent with the agreements they signed from 1991 to 1997, but never implemented.\n\nIt took another six years before the transitional government was in a position to implement such a cease-fire and disarmament.\n\nOn May 6, 2001, an effort to create a 25-member working body, dubbed the National Commission for Reconciliation and Property Settlement (NCRPS), was damaged when Abdirizak Haji Hussein, former Prime Minister, was named as its head. The Somalia Reconciliation and Restoration Council (SRRC) and Puntland leadership objected strongly. Hussein later resigned on July 25, 2001.\n\nHeld in Eldoret, Kenya, this conference was attended by most TFG supporters. However, at the time, the Rahanweyn Resistance Army (RRA) was still hotly contending with other factions, including warlord Adan Madobe-Habsade, who captured Baidoa. The RRA accused the Juba Valley Alliance of assisting the warlord, an accusation denied by the JVA leader Barre Adan Shire Hiiraale.\n\nIn January, 2004 a productive conference was held in Nairobi, Kenya, at which the Transitional Federal Government was agreed to. A document was signed by the major factions, entitled, \"Declaration on the Harmonization of Various Issues Proposed by the Somali Delegates at the Somali Consultative Meetings from 9–29 January 2004\". From this, the Transitional Federal Institutions were agreed to, including elections. However, none of the parties yet had disarmed.\n\nOn 10 October [2004], the President of \"Puntland\", Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed, was elected President of the Somali Transitional Federal Government (TFG) with 189 votes. The runner up, Mr. Abdullahi Ahmed Addow received 79 votes. Before voting, the 25 Presidential candidates swore on the Koran and signed a declaration, pledging to support the elected president and demobilize their militia.\nThe avowed demobilizations never occurred.\n"}
{"id": "3671475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3671475", "title": "Camp Whitehorse", "text": "Camp Whitehorse\n\nCamp Whitehorse was a small prison, run by United States Marines, near Tallil Airbase, in Iraq, outside of Nasiriyah.\n\nAbuse incidents that have occurred at Camp Whitehorse include:\n\n"}
{"id": "3626760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3626760", "title": "Campaign for Access to Essential Medicines", "text": "Campaign for Access to Essential Medicines\n\nThe Campaign for Access to Essential Medicines is an international campaign started by Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) to increase the availability of essential medicines in developing countries. MSF often has difficulties treating patients because the medicines required are too expensive or are no longer produced. Sometimes, the only drugs available are highly toxic or ineffective, and they often have to resort to inadequate testing methods to diagnose patients.\n\nThe lack of research into diseases that affect most of the world’s poor population is known as the 10-90 gap and it occurs because pharmaceutical companies rarely make a profit when developing drugs for these diseases. Although some countries have created legislation to encourage development of essential but commercially ignored medicines, which are called orphan drugs in the United States, MSF started this campaign in November 1999 to bring more awareness to the issue, using its prize money from its 1999 Nobel Peace Prize to fund the project. \n\nMSF’s Campaign for Access to Essential Medicines is pushing to lower the prices of existing drugs, vaccines and diagnostic tests, to stimulate research and development into new treatments for diseases that primarily affect the poor, and to overcome other barriers that prevent patients getting the treatment they need.\n\nThe Campaign is made up of a team of medical, legal, policy and communications specialists working together to tackle these various issues.\n\nThe Campaign is calling for improvements to the quality of food aid to meet growing children’s nutritional needs. They are also urging a rapid scale-up in the use and production of Ready-to-Use Foods (RUF) to reduce childhood deaths from malnutrition.\n\nIt is campaigning for new TB drugs and simple diagnostics to be developed while continuing to call to attention the serious underfunding for TB research.\n\nThe Campaign continues to fight to ensure that patients have access to better and improved HIV treatments as well as further scaling up of treatment.\n\nThe Campaign supports the use of flexibilities in world trade rules and the creation of a patent pool to ensure that patents don’t get in the way of access to the medicines patients need.\n\nThe Campaign is working to promote alternative ways of steering and funding medical research to meet the medical needs of people in developing countries, rather than market priorities.\n\nMSF has supported policies that large drugmakers have resisted, in an effort to improve access to essential medicines.\n\nThe director of policy advocacy Michelle Childs of MSF said \"An important precedent, not just for the people living with HIV within its country, who have been campaigning for this, but also for other developing countries. As medicines for HIV and hepatitis B are increasingly under patent in developing counties, Indonesia has shown that countries can and should take action to enable the production of low-cost versions of essential life-saving medicines for their citizens\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46903191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46903191", "title": "Ceci N'est Pas Un Viol", "text": "Ceci N'est Pas Un Viol\n\nCeci N'est Pas Un Viol (\"This is not a rape\") is a work of performance art by American artist Emma Sulkowicz. Released on 3 June 2015, the work consists of a website hosting an eight-minute video, introductory text and an open comments section. The video shows Sulkowicz having sex with an anonymous actor in a dorm room at Columbia University in New York City. It was directed by artist Ted Lawson in early 2015, while Sulkowicz was in their final year of a visual-arts degree at Columbia.\n\nThe film illustrates the shift between consensual and non-consensual sex. Named after \"Ceci n'est pas une pipe\" from René Magritte's \"The Treachery of Images\", the scene shows Sulkowicz and the actor engaging in what begins as a consensual sexual encounter and ends with what appears to be non-consensual anal sex. (The text notes that the sex was consensual and only appears to be rape.)\n\nThe online response in the comments to the video is a central part of the work, described as an example of participatory art. Sulkowicz wanted to know \"what the public does with [the video], which begins with the way they deal with it from the moment it's disseminated.\" Shortly after it appeared, the video was taken offline by a denial-of-service attack. By 9 June 2015, there were 2,700 comments on the site, most of them negative or ridiculing. Sulkowicz said they strongly believed in the video's importance, but that making it had been a \"traumatizing\" experience.\n\nEmma Sulkowicz, a non-binary artist who uses they/them pronouns, obtained a degree in visual arts from Columbia University in 2015. Their senior thesis and first notable artwork was \"Mattress Performance (Carry That Weight)\" (2014–2015), which consisted of Sulkowicz carrying a mattress wherever they went on campus during their final year, in protest against campus sexual assault and the university's handling of a complaint they filed against a student they said anally raped them. The university cleared the student of responsibility; the district attorney's office declined to pursue criminal charges, citing lack of reasonable suspicion.\n\n\"Ceci N'est Pas Un Viol\" consists of a website that hosts a video, an introductory text and an open comments section. Its existence was made public by a Facebook post from the video's director, Ted Lawson. Sulkowicz says they had the idea for the piece in December 2014, and that performance artist Marina Abramović put them in touch with Lawson to direct it. Lawson told \"ArtNet\" that he thought the piece was \"super risky\" and courageous. Sulkowicz stressed that it was a separate piece from \"Mattress Performance\".\n\nSulkowicz wrote the script and introductory text, chose the position of the cameras, the lighting and the appearance of it having been filmed by security cameras. The scene was filmed in one continuous take three times during the Columbia spring break in March 2015. According to Lawson, Sulkowicz had \"insisted on it being completely real. ... That's what makes it a performance art piece.\" Sulkowicz told the \"Guardian\" that making the video had been traumatizing, and had left them in a \"very scared, emotional state for days.\" They said elsewhere that vulnerability is part of what makes performance art good.\n\nThe introductory text said that the video was not an enactment of Sulkowicz's rape allegation. Rather, \"\"Ceci N'est Pas Un Viol\" ... [is] about your decisions, starting now.\" Sulkowicz gives only provisional consent to view the video:\n\nDo not watch this video if your motives would upset me, my desires are unclear to you, or my nuances are indecipherable. You might be wondering why I've made myself this vulnerable. Look—I want to change the world, and that begins with you, seeing yourself. If you watch this video without my consent, then I hope you reflect on your reasons for objectifying me and participating in my rape, for, in that case, you were the one who couldn't resist the urge to make \"Ceci N'est Pas Un Viol\" about what you wanted to make it about: rape. Please, don't participate in my rape. Watch kindly.\n\nThey then ask a series of questions: \"Are you searching for ways to either hurt or help me? ... Do you think I'm the perfect victim or the world's worst victim? ... Do you hate me? If so, how does it feel to hate me?\"\n\nThe scene is shown on a split screen from four angles, with a timestamp in each corner, beginning 02:10 and ending 02:18. Lawson said the security-camera perspective \"removes the wall between the viewer and the action.\" The video begins with Sulkowicz and the actor, whose face is blurred, entering the room, undressing each other, then kissing and engaging in oral and vaginal sex, the latter with a condom. Three minutes into the video, the actor hits Sulkowicz several times, then removes the condom, pushes his hands and their legs against their neck or throat, and penetrates them anally. They scream, tells him to stop, and put their hand over their face. After a short time, the actor stops abruptly and leaves the room with his clothes in his hands. Sulkowicz is left curled on the bed in the fetal position, with their back to the camera. After wrapping themselves in a towel, they briefly leave the room, return and make their bed, then appears to fall asleep.\n\nLawson told the \"Columbia Spectator\" that Sulkowicz and the actor had captured the shift from the consensual to non-consensual: \"I think the video expresses the possibility that you don't forfeit that [consensuality] ever.\"\n\nLawson said \"Ceci N'est Pas Un Viol\" explores the relationship between art and social media, \"this giant, polluted ocean.\" A key part of the work was the online reaction, particularly in the website's comments section. The 2,700 comments within the first five days were mostly critical or ridiculing. They included sexual, sexist and racist insults and threats. There were remarks about Sulkowicz's physical appearance, ethnicity, mental health, and that the scene did not depict rape. Someone posted the video on a porn site. Comments on other sites were both positive and negative. The video was the victim of a denial-of-service attack by hackers on 4 June, according to DigitalOcean, which hosts the site, and on 5 June there were technical problems caused by the numbers attempting to access it.\n\n\"Newsweek\" called the video a \"harrowing document,\" while Priscilla Frank in \"The Huffington Post\" described it as \"simple yet stinging, providing imagery that lingers like a nightmare, never quite comprehensible but impossible to forget.\" In the German edition of \"The Huffington Post\", Benjamin Prüfer was less positive, calling it an \"art video that can only be described as pornography.\"\n\nHannah Rubin, writing in \"The Forward\", called it \"sophisticated and brilliant,\" and despaired of the lack of empathy on display in the website's comments section. According to Julie Zeilinger, the video was \"unsettling\" for Sulkowicz's supporters, and several questioned their approach. On \"Slate's\" DoubleX Gabfest podcast, Hanna Rosin argued that the split-screen forces the viewer to embrace the subjective, in terms of choosing whether and how to watch, and how to interpret, which is the opposite of activism because it is too nuanced. The broadcast noted that Sandra Leong, Sulkowicz's mother, had written on Facebook in support of the work.\n\nSuzannah Weiss wrote in \"Bustle\" that Sulkowicz's provisional consent to watch the video is a metaphor for sexual consent. The video is there to watch, but the viewer has a decision to make. No one has consent to watch with hostility or if they are unsure of the artist's desires. No one has consent to post it to a porn site. If the artist's terms are disregarded, the viewing is non-consensual. Rebecca Brink argued in \"The Frisky\" that, as well as illustrating the nature of sexual consent, \"Ceci N'est Pas Un Viol\" challenges the position that art, once made public, is removed from the artist's control and is for the viewer alone to interpret.\n\n"}
{"id": "18608095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18608095", "title": "Claudia Kemfert", "text": "Claudia Kemfert\n\nClaudia Kemfert (born 17December 1968 in Delmenhorst, Germany) is a German economics expert in the areas of energy research and environmental protection. She is a Professor of Energy Economics and Sustainability at the Hertie School of Governance in Berlin. She heads the Energy, Transportation, and Environment department at the German Institute for Economic Research (DIW Berlin).\n\nKemfert has led the Energy, Transportation, and Environment department at the German Institute for Economic Research (DIW Berlin) since April 2004. From 2004 until 2009 she was Professor for environmental economics at the Humboldt University Berlin. Kemfert studied economics at the Bielefeld University, the University of Oldenburg, where she graduated in 1998. She had a post-doctoral research visit at the (FEEM) in Milan in 1998.\n\nFrom January 1999 to April 2000, she led a research group at the Institute for Rational Application of Energies of the University of Stuttgart. As a guest professor she taught at the University of St. Petersburg (2003–2004), University of Moscow (2000–2001) and University of Siena (1998, 2002–2003). From 2000 to 2004 Kemfert had a position as an assistant professor and was the leader of a research group at the University of Oldenburg.\n\nIn 2016, Kemfert was appointed by the Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Building and Nuclear Safety as a member of the . She also advised President of the European Commission José Manuel Barroso in a High level Group on Energy and Climate, and she acts as an external expert for the Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change (IPCC). Kemfert was member of the High Level Expert Group of the EU Commissioner for Environment and Sustainability and of the Advisory Group on Energy of the European Commission (DG Research). She furthermore acts as jury member for several significant sustainability prices.\n\nKemfert served as shadow minister for energy policy in the campaigns of Norbert Röttgen (CDU) in North Rhine-Westphalia (2012) and of Thorsten Schäfer-Gümbel (SPD) in Hesse (2013).\n\nIn addition, Kemfert holds a variety of positions, including the following: \n\nKemfert got an award from DAAD and was honoured in 2006 as top German Scientist from the German research foundation, Helmholtz and Leibniz Association (\"Elf der Wissenschaft\"). In 2011 she was awarded with the Urania Medaille as well as B.A.U.M. Environmental Award for Best Science and got the German-Solar-Award and the Adam-Smith-Award for Market-Based Environmental Policy in 2016. \n\n"}
{"id": "28751934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28751934", "title": "Coons v. Geithner", "text": "Coons v. Geithner\n\nThe suit aimed to prevent the bill from taking effect, and named as defendants four high-ranking officials within the federal government: President Barack Obama, then-Secretary of the Treasury Timothy Geithner, Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, and Attorney General Eric Holder. The Goldwater Institute’s Scharf-Norton Center for Constitutional Litigation represented Tempe, Arizona, resident Nick Coons, thirty Arizona state lawmakers, and three then-Representatives from Arizona, Jeff Flake (now a Senator), Trent Franks, and John Shadegg (since retired). In justifying the need for such a lawsuit, the Goldwater Institute argued that the PPACA represents an expansion of federal power in medicine, the likes of which has not taken place since the creation of Medicaid and Medicare.\n\nThe Goldwater Institute believed that this lawsuit distinguished itself from others filed across the country in that it united the most effective arguments from lawsuits already filed by the states of Virginia and Florida with further claims. According to the Goldwater Institute, these additional claims were \"based on the separation of powers, the right to medical autonomy and privacy, and the First Amendment.\" The suit claimed that the lead plaintiff, Nick Coons of Tempe, would have his right to medical privacy violated by the legislation. The legislation would compel Coons to disclose medical records that could be accessed by the federal government without Coons's approval. Additionally, in 2014, Coons would face fines if he did not purchase a federally approved health care plan.\n\nOne specific target of the lawsuit was the Independent Payment Advisory Board, which is a new agency created by the health care bill. According to the Goldwater Institute, the board \"will be able to dictate how much doctors can charge for medical care, how insurance companies will pay for it, and when patients can get access to cutting-edge treatments.\" Because these decisions cannot be reviewed by Congress nor the courts, the lawsuit claimed that the separation of powers doctrine is violated as a result of the health care legislation.\n\nIn addition, thirty Arizona lawmakers joined the suit because they believed the bill violates their First Amendment rights to cast votes for the benefit of their constituents. For example, in 2010, the Arizona Legislature sought to reduce the state's budget deficits by voting to reduce state funding for Medicaid. However, after the federal health care bill was passed, the Legislature had to restore all state funding for Medicaid or Arizona would have lost $7 billion in federal funding.\n\nBy an opinion (No. 13-15324) issued on August 7, 2014, retitled as \"Coons v. Lew\" (Jacob Lew having replaced Timothy Geithner as Secretary of the Treasury), the 9th Circuit affirmed the bulk of the judgment, but vacated in part and remanded to the District Court with instructions to dismiss one count for lack of jurisdiction. On March 30, 2015, the Supreme Court refused to review the opinion of the 9th Circuit.\n\nInitial suit\nAppeal\n"}
{"id": "2810929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2810929", "title": "East Turkestan Liberation Organization", "text": "East Turkestan Liberation Organization\n\nThe East Turkestan Liberation Organization (ETLO; ; ) was a secessionist Uyghur organization that advocated for an independent Uyghur state named East Turkestan in the Western Chinese province known as Xinjiang. The organization was established in Turkey in 1990 or 1996 to fight against the Chinese government in Xinjiang, a territory in which no ethnicity forms a majority, but is inhabited in order of most populous to least by Uyghur, Han Chinese, Kazakh and other Turkic communities. Xinjiang or East Turkestan has a population of 18 million, eight million of which are Turkic-speaking Muslim Uighurs. As a result of Chinese economic development policies, the demography of the region has altered - ethnic Han Chinese population of the region has risen to 40% or 7.5 million people of the total population, as opposed to 6% in 1949. Kazakhs, the third largest group, constitute 1.2 million. ETLO is a designated terrorist organization by the governments of China and Kazakhstan.\n\nAmnesty International reports that \"The Chinese government’s use of the term \"separatism\" refers to a broad range of activities, many of which amount to no more than peaceful opposition or dissent. Over the last three years, tens of thousands of people are reported to have been detained for investigation in the region and hundreds, possibly thousands, have been charged or sentenced under the Criminal Law; many Uighurs are believed to have been sentenced to death and executed for alleged \"separatist\" or \"terrorist\" offences, although the exact number is impossible to determine.\"\n\nIn 1998, ETLO members were accused by the government of China of organizing 15 arson incidents in Ürümqi, and in 1999, Istanbul police arrested 10 ETLO members for a series of attacks on Chinese people in Turkey.\n\nSince 9/11, 2001, China has effectively used the international climate to build an international coalition against Uyghur separatist movements. On 15 December 2003, the Chinese Ministry of Public Security issued a list of East Turkestan terrorists and terrorist organizations which named four organizations and several individuals: the East Turkestan Liberation Organization (ETLO), the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), the World Uyghur Youth Congress (WUYC) and the East Turkestan Information Centre (ETIC). Many analysts claim that Russian and Chinese authorities exaggerate the potency of the Uyghur groups to justify their repressive counter-terror policies.\n\nIn a 2002 Chinese documentary, \"On the Spot Report: The Crimes of Eastern Turkestan Terrorist Power,\" Wang Mingshan, Deputy Director-General of the Yili-Kazak Autonomous Prefecture Public Security Department, claimed that in 1998 Mehmet Emin Hazret, the leader of the ETLO, ordered Hamid Mehmetjan, an Egyptian ETLO member, to go to China to recruit members, receive a delivery of weapons on 6 April, and to compile a list of targets for assassination and bombings in Xinjiang. Mingshan also claimed that police and ETLO members exchanged gunfire on 24 April 1998, and that members later stated during interrogation that they were trained at camps in Afghanistan.\n\nOn 15 December 2003, the Chinese Ministry of Public Security issued a list of East Turkestan terrorists and terrorist organizations which named four organizations and several individuals: the East Turkestan Liberation Organization (ETLO), the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), the World Uyghur Youth Congress (WUYC) and the East Turkestan Information Centre (ETIC).\nAt the same time, the official Chinese press initiated a campaign detailing terrorist incidents allegedly carried out by the individuals listed. Amnesty International regarded these allegations \"uncorroborated and no credible evidence was provided to substantiate these claims. Indeed, much of the \"evidence\" appeared to have been obtained from other individuals under interrogation. In view of the ongoing and widespread use of torture and ill-treatment by police in China, particularly to extract confessions from detained suspects, Amnesty International believes any \"evidence\" obtained in this way must be treated with deep suspicion.\" In January, Hazret, who avoids public appearances, called into Radio Free Asia to respond that ETLO wishes to work by peaceful means, but spoke of the \"inevitability\" of a military wing targeting the Chinese government. He also stated that the principal goal of the ETLO was to pursue independence through peaceful means, and denied any participation in terrorist activities or connections to the East Turkestan Islamic Movement.\nAmnesty International has criticized the Chinese government response to ETLO, which it says include human rights violations, such as torture and ill-treatment by police.\n\nShanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) members; China, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan, designated ETLO as a terrorist organization. According to Amnesty International, \"the listing of ETIM and ETLO was in keeping with previous allegations made by China against these groups. Both were highlighted in China’s official report on East Turkestan terrorists of January 2002 and China’s allegations against ETIM (East Turkestan Islamic Movement) were bolstered in August 2002 when the US, closely followed by the UN formally classified ETIM as a \"terrorist organization\" after several requests from China. The American government refused China's request to recognize the East Turkestan Liberation Organization (ETLO) as a terrorist organization in December 2003.\n\nThe organization operates primarily in Xinjiang, China, but operates throughout Central Asia and in Pakistan. The ETLO is allied with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement and the Taliban.\nKazakhstan banned the ETLO, designating it a terrorist organization, on 17 November 2006. The United States State Department says the ETLO has engaged \"small motivated bombings and armed attacks\". The \"Global Defence Review\" allege that it is \"widely acknowledged\" that Al-Qaeda gives funding and training to the ETLO and the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, although there are doubts about the East Turkestan Islamic Movement's existence.\n\n"}
{"id": "20024708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20024708", "title": "Europeana", "text": "Europeana\n\nEuropeana.eu is the EU digital platform for cultural heritage. \"Mona Lisa\" by Leonardo da Vinci, \"Girl with a Pearl Earring\" by Johannes Vermeer, the works of Charles Darwin and Isaac Newton and the music of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart are some of the highlights on Europeana.\n\nMore than 3,000 institutions across Europe have contributed to Europeana. These range from major international names like the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, the British Library and the Louvre to regional archives and local museums from every member of the European Union. Together, their assembled collections let users explore Europe's cultural and scientific heritage from prehistory to the modern day.\n\nThe catalyst for Europeana was a letter sent by Jacques Chirac, President of France, together with the premiers of Germany, Spain, Italy, Poland and Hungary to the President of the European Commission, José Manuel Durão Barroso, in April 2005. The letter recommended the creation of a virtual European library, to make Europe's cultural heritage accessible for all.\n\nThe letter added resonance to the work that the European Commission's Information Society and Media Directorate had been engaged in for over a decade, with programmes such as Telematics for Libraries. It gave strong political endorsement to the Directorate's strategy, i2010: communication on digital libraries, which was published on 30 September 2005. The strategy announced the intention to promote and support the creation of a European digital library, as a goal within the European Union, which aims to foster growth in the information society and media industries.\n\nThe project that began the building of Europeana was called the European Digital Library Network (EDLnet) and was aimed at building a prototype of a cross-border, cross-domain, user-centred service. It was funded by the European Commission under its eContentplus programme, one of the research and development funding streams of i2010.\n\nThe prototype was launched on 20 November 2008. At its beta launch, the site gave access to 4.5 million digital objects – more than double the initial target – from over 1,000 contributing organisations, including world-famous national library, gallery and museum collections from the capitals of Europe. Due to an unexpected user surge (peaking at an estimated 10 million hits an hour), the servers were unable to cope with the massive load. The site was temporarily taken down, and after series of technical upgrades went up again in December 2008.\nIn February 2009, the successor of EDLnet – Europeana version 1.0 – began. This 30-month project was to develop the prototype into a fully operational service. In 2010, the project accomplished its objective of giving access to over 10 million digital objects. Early in 2011, new features on the site included a translation tool and the ability to expand on information by automatically transferring the search term to Wikipedia and other services.\n\nEuropeana gives access to different types of content from different types of heritage institutions. The digital objects that users can find in Europeana are not stored on a central computer, but remain with the cultural institution and are hosted on their networks. Europeana collects contextual information – or metadata – about the items, including a small picture. Users search this contextual information. Once they find what they are looking for, if they want to access the full content of the item, they can click through to the original site that holds the content.\n\nDifferent types of cultural heritage organisations – libraries, museums, archives and audiovisual collections – catalogue their content in different ways and to different standards. Approaches also vary in different countries. To make the information searchable, it has to be mapped to a single common standard, known as the Europeana Semantic Elements. This metadata standard at present takes a lowest common denominator approach to the integration of different types of digital content. In 2010 the \"Europeana Data Model\", a richer metadata standard, was introduced to help give users more and better information.\n\nEuropeana accepts metadata about digital objects, it does not make any decisions about digitisation. The decision about which objects are digitised lies with the organisation that holds the material.\n\nIn its Strategic Plan for 2011–2015, which was published in January 2011, Europeana outlines four strategic tracks that will shape its further development:\n\nThe current strategy is for the period 2015-2020.\n\nThe Europeana Foundation is the governing body of the Europeana service. Its members are the presidents and chairs of European associations for cultural heritage and information associations.\n\nThe Foundation promotes collaboration between museums, archives, audiovisual collections and libraries so that users can have integrated access to their content through Europeana and other services.\n\nThe Foundation is incorporated under Dutch law as Stichting Europeana and is housed within the Koninklijke Bibliotheek, the national library of the Netherlands. It provides a legal framework for the governance of Europeana, employing the staff, bidding for funding and enabling the sustainability of the service.\n\nThe executive director of the Europeana Foundation is Harry Verwayen.\n\nThere are a number of projects – the Europeana Group – that are contributing technology solutions and content to Europeana. These projects are run by different cultural heritage institutions, and are part-funded by the European Commission's eContentplus programme and the Information and Communications Technologies Policy Support Programme (ICT PSP).\n\nThe Europeana Group projects are:\n\nEuropeana and the projects contributing content to Europeana.eu have been funded by the European Commission under eContentplus, the Information and Communications Technologies Policy Support Programme (ICT PSP) and similar programmes. To participate in a wide range of projects, which are only funded by the Commission for 50–100% of the costs and do not include overheads, Europeana is also reliant for an element of its funding on Member States’ ministries of culture and education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41607063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41607063", "title": "Finnish Organization of Canada", "text": "Finnish Organization of Canada\n\nFinnish Organization of Canada (FOC, ) is a Finnish Canadian cultural organization. It was established in 1911 as the Finnish Socialist Organization of Canada (\"Kanadan Suomalainen Sosialistinen Järjestö\"). FOC is the oldest nationwide cultural organization for Finns in Canada. It was first connected with Social Democratic Party of Canada and later with Communist Party of Canada. Today FOC is no longer associated with politics. It has fewer than 200 members, who are mostly senior citizens in the areas of Toronto, Vancouver, Sudbury and Thunder Bay.\n\nThe Finnish Organization of Canada was established in October 1911 by Finnish socialists who were expelled from the Socialist Party of Canada. A key person in its founding was the Finnish-Canadian agitator and feminist Sanna Kannasto. By the end of 1911 FOC had 19 locals and more than 1,500 members. Three years later the member count was more than 3,000 with 64 locals across the country. Five hundred of the members were women. Throughout the 1920s and 1930s, the organization came into almost continuous conflict with liberal, social-democratic, and conservative factions both within and without the Finnish community in Canada, evidenced by the rumours of \"reception committees\" active in communities around Sudbury where newly immigrated Finns would be vetted by local committees which would separate them into \"Reds\" or \"Whites\", with identified Reds being approved to settle and Whites encouraged to move elsewhere. In 1931 the social democrats left the FOC and organization was fully related with communists. It was banned in 1940 due to the Defence of Canada Regulations but declared legal again in 1943 as Canada had become an ally with Soviet Union in 1941.\n\nFOC published the Finnish-language newspaper \"Vapaus\" in Sudbury from 1917 to 1974. The previous newspaper \"Työkansa\" had gone bankrupt in 1915.\n\n"}
{"id": "38759608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38759608", "title": "First Catilinarian conspiracy", "text": "First Catilinarian conspiracy\n\nThe first Catilinarian conspiracy was a plot to murder the consuls of 65 BC and seize power. Historians consider it unlikely that Catiline would have been involved in the first Catilinarian conspiracy or, indeed, that the conspiracy existed at all.\n\nIn all likelihood, Catiline was not involved in the so-called first Catilinarian conspiracy, although several historical sources implicate him in it. There does not seem to be a single account that is represented in all of the sources: rather, it seems that the accounts represent a collection of rumors accusing different political figures in attempts to tarnish their names. As it pertains to Catiline, much of the information originates in Cicero’s speech \"In Toga Candida\" which was given during his election campaign in 64 BC. Only fragments of this speech still exist, in the later writing of Asconius Pedianus.\n\nThe consuls-designate, Publius Autronius Paetus and Publius Cornelius Sulla, were prevented from entering office because of \"ambitus\", electoral corruption, under the \"Lex Acilia Calpurnia\". Thus, the two other leading candidates, Lucius Manlius Torquatus and Lucius Aurelius Cotta, were elected in a second election and were to enter office on January 1, 65 BC. Supposedly, Catiline, incensed because he was not allowed to stand for the consulship, conspired with Gnaeus Calpurnius Piso and the former consuls-designate to slaughter many of the senators and the new consuls the day they assumed office. Then they would name themselves the consuls for the year and then Piso would have been sent to organize the provinces in Hispania. Alternatively, Suetonius claims that Julius Caesar and Marcus Licinius Crassus directed the conspiracy, but he fails to mention Catiline's involvement. Instead of assuming the consulship, Crassus is accused of planning to become dictator and intending to name Caesar \"magister equitum\".\n\nIn 62 BC, after Catiline's death, Cicero defended Publius Sulla in court after he was indicted for being a member of the second conspiracy. In order to free his client of implication in the first Catilinarian conspiracy, he places the blame solely on Catiline who, conveniently, had waged war against the Republic in the previous months. In the end, Publius Sulla was acquitted, Catiline's name was further tarnished, and Cicero received a large loan to purchase a home. It is not clear who participated in this alleged conspiracy, as the different accounts accuse different people, but Catiline's association with it appears to have been developed after the Second Catilinarian Conspiracy. Cicero's accusations prior to 63 BC are likely unfounded, since Rome had no penalty for libel. Furthermore, Catiline had little motive to participate in this conspiracy, especially since he had been denied very little. He still held the aspiration of obtaining the consulship legitimately the next year, and the conspiracy involved the murder of the consul, Manlius Torquatus, who supported Catiline.\n\n"}
{"id": "43723852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43723852", "title": "Galiza Ceibe-OLN", "text": "Galiza Ceibe-OLN\n\nGaliza Ceibe-OLN (in English: \"Liberated Galiza-National Liberation Organization\") was an independentist and socialist political party in Galicia, Spain. Galiza Ceibe was founded on 1980 by the Galician Party of the Proletariat (\"Partido Galego do Proletariado, PGP\") as a political and electoral front, originally to present a list in Vigo and in other galician municipalities under the name Agrupación Electoral Galicia Ceibe in the 1979 local elections.\n\nThe list gained 1,926 votes (2.22%) and no seats in Vigo and 2 town councillors in Salvaterra de Miño. In 1980 the PGP transformed Galiza Ceibe-OLN in a political party. In 1981 the PGP dissolved itself, and its militants joined Galiza Ceibe. Espiral was the party newspaper. The same year 16 Galician nationalists were arrested by police charged with \"membership of an armed band\". Among the arrested there were several members of Galiza Ceibe. The arrests led to protests and riots, with the participation of the Galician People's Union and the AN-PG. All the detainees were released between 1981 and 1983. In the 1980 autonomy referendum Galiza Ceibe supported both abstention and negative vote.\n\nIn the autonomic elections of 1981 Galiza Ceibe and the PGP presented a candidacy to use the public media. The electoral campaign was used to support and raise awareness about the independentist prisoners and to call for abstention. At the end of the campaign the party announced its withdrawal from the elections. Despite the withdrawal and their calls for abstention, Galicia Ceibe gained 1,433 (0.15%) votes. The same year the organization called for a demonstration in Santiago de Compostela in the National Day of Galicia under the slogan \"Independencia e Socialismo\" (Independence and Socialism).\n\nIn 1982 he was one of the forces that founded the BNG but left the organization in the Constituent Assembly when the majority decided to participate in the general and autonomic elections.\n\nIn the elections of 1983 formed with the PCOE and independents the Popular Unity Candidates (\"Candidaturas de Unidade Popular\"), that presented lists in Vigo and Pontevedra. The party also supported and participated in the Unidade dos Viciños list in Melide, that gained 4 town councillors and the 26,71% of the vote (1,073 votes); and supported, but not participated, the Unión Galega list in Cambados (that gained 11 town councillors and the mayor) and the Agrupación Nacionalista Galega de Narón in Narón (6 town councillors and the mayor). Due to the poor results achieved Xosé Luís Méndez Ferrín proposed later this year in the VI National Assembly the dissolution of the organization, which was rejected by the majority. After that assembly part of the militancy left the organization. The National Assembly also decided to rename the organization as Galiza Ceive-OLN and adopt reintegrationism. Antom Árias Curto became the most prominent leader. The organization gave ideological and political support to the Exército Guerrilheiro do Povo Galego Ceive (EGPGC, Guerrilla Army of the Free Galician People).\n\nGaliza Ceibe called for abstention in the 1985 autonomic elections, criticizing the BNG for taking the oath of the Spanish constitution.\n\nIn 1988, along with the Communist Party of National Liberation and local groups, formed the Galician People's Front. The following year Galiza-Ceive OLN decided to leave the organization because of the political differences in the organization's strategy (specially on the support of the EGPGC armed struggle, that Galiza Ceive supported but not the PCLN), and dissolved itself to form the Assembleia do Povo Unido.\n\n"}
{"id": "39011827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39011827", "title": "Holistic management (agriculture)", "text": "Holistic management (agriculture)\n\nHolistic management (from \"holos\", a Greek word meaning \"all\", \"whole\", \"entire\", \"total\") in agriculture is a systems thinking approach to managing resources that was originally developed by Allan Savory for reversing desertification. In 2010 the Africa Centre for Holistic Management in Zimbabwe, Operation Hope (a \"proof of concept\" project using holistic management) was named the winner of the 2010 Buckminster Fuller Challenge for \"recognizing initiatives which take a comprehensive, anticipatory, design approach to radically advance human well being and the health of our planet's ecosystems\".\n\nThe idea of holistic planned grazing began in the 1960s when Allan Savory, a wildlife biologist in his native Southern Rhodesia, set out to understand desertification. This can be seen in the context of the larger environmental movement. Heavily influenced by the work of André Voisin and the ineffectiveness of mainstream rangeland science of the time, Savory concluded that the spread of deserts, the loss of wildlife, and the human impoverishment that always resulted were related to the reduction of the natural herds of large grazers and even more, the change in behavior of those few remaining herds. Livestock could be substituted to provide important ecosystem services like nutrient cycling when mimicking those uniquely coevolved grasses and grazers. But managers had found that while rotational grazing systems can work for diverse management purposes, scientific experiments had demonstrated that they do not necessarily work for specific ecological purposes. An adaptive management plan was needed for the integration of the experiential with the experimental, as well as the social with the biophysical, to provide a more comprehensive framework for the management of rangeland systems. None of these sources of knowledge could be understood except in the context of the whole. Holistic management was developed to meet that need.\n\nIn many regions, pastoralism and communal land use are blamed for environmental degradation caused by overgrazing. After years of research and experience, Savory came to understand this assertion was often wrong, and that sometimes removing animals actually made it worse. This concept is a variation of the trophic cascade, where humans are seen as the top level predator and the cascade follows from there.\n\n\"I have been particularly fascinated, for example, by the work of a remarkable man called Allan Savory, in Zimbabwe and other semi arid areas, who has argued for years against the prevailing expert view that is the simple numbers of cattle that drive overgrazing and cause fertile land to become desert. On the contrary, as he has since shown so graphically, the land needs the presence of feeding animals and their droppings for the cycle to be complete, so that soils and grassland areas stay productive. Such that, if you take grazers off the land and lock them away in vast feedlots, the land dies. \"- His Royal Highness The Prince of Wales (Prince Charles) from a speech to the IUCN World Conservation Congress\nSavory developed a flexible management system designed to improve grazing systems. Holistic planned grazing is one of a number of newer grazing management systems that more closely simulate the behavior of natural herds of wildlife and have been shown to improve riparian habitats and water quality over systems that often led to land degradation, and be an effective tool to improve range condition for both livestock and wildlife. Holistic planned grazing is similar to rotational grazing but differs in that it more explicitly recognizes and provides a framework for adapting to the four basic ecosystem processes: the water cycle, the mineral cycle including the carbon cycle, energy flow, and community dynamics (the relationship between organisms in an ecosystem) as equal in importance to livestock production and social welfare. Thus the holistic context in the planning stage leads to different decisions in dealing with that complexity. Holistic management has been likened to \"a permaculture approach to rangeland management\".\n\nWhile originally developed as a tool for range land use and restoring desertified land, the holistic management system can be applied to other areas with multiple complex socioeconomic and environmental factors. One such example is Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM), which promotes sector integration in development and management of water resources to ensure that water is allocated between different users in a fair way, maximizing economic and social welfare without compromising the sustainability of vital ecosystems. In essence, coordinated holistic water management takes into consideration all water users in nature and society. Another example is mine reclamation. A fourth use of Holistic management is in certain forms of no till crop production, intercropping, and permaculture. Holistic management has been acknowledged by The United States Department of Agriculture Natural Resources Conservation Service (USDA-NRCS).\n\nThe holistic management decision-making framework uses six key steps to guide the management of resources:\n\n\nHolistic management planned grazing has four key principles that take advantage of the symbiotic relationship between large herds of grazing animals, their predators and the grasslands that support them:\n\n\nClaims that holistic grazing can have a profound effect on climate change by making grazing cattle carbon negative have no basis in any peer-reviewed scientific literature and are based on literature only available on the Savory Institute website. \n\nRange scientists have not been able to experimentally confirm that intensive grazing systems similar to those at the center of holistic management show a benefit, and claim that managers' reports of success are anecdotal.\n\nAn assessment of multiple research studies, published by the United States Department of Agriculture, concluded that \"these results refute prior claims that animal trampling associated with high stocking rates or grazing pressures in rotational grazing systems enhance soil properties and promote hydrological function\". Similarly, a survey article by Briske et al. (the same author) that examined rotational grazing systems found \"few, if any, consistent benefits over continuous grazing.\" \n\nA paper by Richard Teague, a coauthor of the USDA paper, et al. pointed out that Briske had examined rotational systems in general and not Savory's holistic planned grazing process, developed in the 1960s when Savory recognized that a hundred years of rotational and other prescribed grazing systems had exacerbated desertification, even in the U.S. as stated in Savory’s TED talk. The paper contrasted the success reported by many ranchers practicing multi-paddock grazing with the general lack of evidence found by formal research.\n\nEarlier research that compared short duration grazing (SDG) and Savory Grazing Method (SGM) in southern Africa and found no evidence of range improvement, a slight economic improvement of a seven-unit intensive system with more animals but with individual weight loss. That study found no evidence for soil improvement, but instead that increased trampling had led to soil compaction.\n\nIn March 2013, the Savory Institute published a research portfolio with selected abstracts of papers, theses and reports supporting holistic management and responding to some of their critics. The same month Savory was a guest speaker with TED and gave a presentation titled \"How to Fight Desertification and Reverse Climate Change\". Responses were posted on several prominent blogs, including the blog \"The Wildlife News,\" by Ralph Maughan, who said \"The idea that we can almost like magic, green the desert and the degraded lands, by running even more livestock, albeit in a different fashion, sucking up greenhouse gases all the while, is a compelling and dangerous fantasy.\" RealClimate.org published a piece saying that Savory's claims that his technique can bring atmospheric carbon \"back to pre-industrial levels\" are \"simply not reasonable.\"\n\nA few scientists have focused much of their research to demonstrate the science behind how Holistic Planned Grazing (or Adaptive Multi-Paddock Grazing) does improve soil health and there is a growing body of research work which is reversing the claim that the only evidence for holistic management is anecdotal.\n\nSoil scientist Dr. Christine Jones from Australia with much of her research available on her website, wrote an article in which she discussed the research done by Dr. Mark Adams from the University of Sydney regarding the soil's ability to sequester methane.\n\nDr. Richard Teague from Texas A&M Agrilife has a number of different studies that he has undertaken focusing on GHG mitigation, as well as an article on the role of ruminants in reducing agriculture’s carbon that was co-authored with Dr. Rattan Lal of Ohio State University. Teague has also done specific research in Canada and Texas comparing the increased carbon sequestration on land where people are practicing Holistic Planned Grazing in comparison to their neighbors that are not. On average in the Texas study the holistically grazed land added 3 tons Carbon/ha/yr more than the heavy continuously grazed neighboring land.\n\nDr. Keith Weber from Idaho State University who shows how holistic planned grazing improves soil moisture retention on semi-arid rangelands. This water retention leads to more plant growth which increases soil carbon and thus carbon sequestration.\n\nSome qualitative studies show the improved profitability and sustainability of holistically managed operations and the efficacy of Holistic Management as a whole farm/ranch planning tool. In particular, Dr. Deborah Stinner, Dr. Benjamin Stinner of (Ohio State University at Wooster), and Ed Marsolf wrote an article about Holistic Management and how biodiversity is an organizing principle in agroecosystem management. Another was done by Charley Orchard as he surveyed ranchers in the Northern Rockies and the results they had achieved.\n\nMany farmers claim the system works well for them and they have even received awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1296149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1296149", "title": "Impeachment of Bill Clinton", "text": "Impeachment of Bill Clinton\n\nThe impeachment of Bill Clinton, the 42nd President of the United States, was initiated in December 1998 by the House of Representatives and led to a trial in the Senate on two charges, one of perjury and one of obstruction of justice. These charges stemmed from a sexual harassment lawsuit filed against Clinton by Paula Jones. Clinton was subsequently acquitted of these charges by the Senate on February 12, 1999. Two other impeachment articles – a second perjury charge and a charge of abuse of power – failed in the House.\n\nLeading to the impeachment, Independent Counsel Ken Starr turned over documentation to the House Judiciary Committee. Chief Prosecutor David Schippers and his team reviewed the material and determined there was sufficient evidence to impeach the president. As a result, four charges were considered by the full House of Representatives; two passed, making Clinton the second president to be impeached, after Andrew Johnson in 1868, and only the third against whom articles of impeachment had been brought before the full House for consideration (Richard Nixon resigned from the presidency in 1974, while an impeachment process against him was underway).\n\nThe trial in the United States Senate began right after the seating of the 106th Congress, in which the Republican Party held 55 Senate seats. A two-thirds vote (67 senators) was required to remove Clinton from office. 50 senators voted to remove Clinton on the obstruction of justice charge and 45 voted to remove him on the perjury charge; no member of his own Democratic Party voted guilty on either charge. Clinton, like Johnson a century earlier, was acquitted on all charges.\n\nIn 1994, Paula Jones filed a lawsuit accusing Clinton of sexual harassment when he was governor of Arkansas. Clinton attempted to delay a trial until after he left office, but in May 1997 the Supreme Court unanimously ordered the case to proceed and shortly thereafter the pre-trial discovery process commenced. Jones' attorneys wanted to prove that Clinton had engaged in a pattern of behavior with women that lent support to her claims. In late 1997, Linda Tripp began secretly recording conversations with her friend Monica Lewinsky, a former intern and Department of Defense employee, in which Lewinsky divulged that she had had a sexual relationship with the President. Tripp shared this information with Paula Jones' lawyers, who put Lewinsky on their witness list in December 1997. According to the Starr report, after Lewinsky appeared on the witness list Clinton began taking steps to conceal their relationship, including suggesting she file a false affidavit, suggesting she use cover stories, concealing gifts he had given her, and helping her obtain a job to her liking.\n\nClinton gave a sworn deposition on January 17, 1998, where he denied having a \"sexual relationship\", \"sexual affair\" or \"sexual relations\" with Lewinsky. He also denied that he was ever alone with her. His lawyer, Robert Bennet, stated with Clinton present that Lewinsky's affidavit showed that there was no sex in any manner, shape or form between Clinton and Lewinsky. The Starr Report states that the following day, Clinton \"coached\" his secretary Betty Curie into repeating his denials should she be called to testify.\nAfter rumors of the scandal reached the news, Clinton publicly stated, \"I did not have sexual relations with that woman, Miss Lewinsky.\" Months later, Clinton admitted that his relationship with Lewinsky was \"wrong\" and \"not appropriate\". Lewinsky engaged in oral sex with Clinton several times.\n\nThe judge in the Jones case later ruled the Lewinsky matter immaterial, and threw out the case in April 1998 on the grounds that Jones had failed to show any damages. After Jones appealed, Clinton agreed in November 1998 to settle the case for $850,000 while still admitting no wrongdoing.\n\nThe charges arose from an investigation by Ken Starr, an Independent Counsel. Originally dealing with Whitewater, Starr, with the approval of United States Attorney General Janet Reno, conducted a wide-ranging investigation of alleged abuses, including the Whitewater affair, the firing of White House travel agents, and the alleged misuse of FBI files. On January 12, 1998, Linda Tripp, who had been working with the Jones lawyers, informed Starr that Lewinsky was preparing to commit perjury in the Jones case and had asked Tripp to do the same. She also said Clinton's friend Vernon Jordan was assisting Lewinsky. Based on the connection to Jordan, who was under scrutiny in the Whitewater probe, Starr obtained approval from Reno to expand his investigation into whether Lewinsky and others were breaking the law.\n\nA much-quoted statement from Clinton's grand jury testimony showed him questioning the precise use of the word \"is\". Contending that his statement that \"there's nothing going on between us\" had been truthful because he had no ongoing relationship with Lewinsky at the time he was questioned, Clinton said, \"It depends upon what the meaning of the word 'is' is. If the—if he—if 'is' means is and never has been, that is not—that is one thing. If it means there is none, that was a completely true statement\". Starr obtained further evidence of inappropriate behavior by seizing the computer hard drive and email records of Monica Lewinsky. Based on the president's conflicting testimony, Starr concluded that Clinton had committed perjury. Starr submitted his findings to Congress in a lengthy document (the so-called Starr Report), and simultaneously posted the report, which included descriptions of encounters between Clinton and Lewinsky, on the Internet. Starr was criticized by Democrats for spending $70 million on an investigation that substantiated only perjury and obstruction of justice. Critics of Starr also contend that his investigation was highly politicized because it regularly leaked tidbits of information to the press in violation of legal ethics, and because his report included lengthy descriptions which were humiliating yet irrelevant to the legal case.\n\nSince Ken Starr had already completed an extensive investigation, the House Judiciary Committee conducted no investigations of its own into Clinton's alleged wrongdoing, and it held no serious impeachment-related hearings before the 1998 midterm elections. Nevertheless, impeachment was one of the major issues in the election.\n\nIn November 1998, the Democrats picked up five seats in the House although the Republicans still maintained majority control. The results were a particular embarrassment for House Speaker Newt Gingrich, who, before the election, had been reassured by private polling that Clinton's scandal would result in Republican gains of up to thirty House seats. Shortly after the elections, Gingrich, who had been one of the leading advocates for impeachment, announced he would resign from Congress as soon as he was able to find somebody to fill his vacant seat; Gingrich fulfilled this pledge, and officially resigned from Congress on January 3, 1999.\n\nImpeachment proceedings were initiated during the post-election, \"lame duck\" session of the outgoing 105th United States Congress. Unlike the case of the 1974 impeachment process against Richard Nixon, the committee hearings were perfunctory but the floor debate in the whole House was spirited on both sides. The Speaker-designate, Representative Bob Livingston, chosen by the Republican Party Conference to replace Gingrich as House Speaker, announced the end of his candidacy for Speaker and his resignation from Congress from the floor of the House after his own marital infidelity came to light.\nIn the same speech, Livingston also encouraged Clinton to resign. Clinton chose to remain in office and urged Livingston to reconsider his resignation.\nMany other prominent Republican members of Congress (including Dan Burton of Indiana, Helen Chenoweth of Idaho and Henry Hyde of Illinois, the chief House manager of Clinton's trial in the Senate) had infidelities exposed about this time, all of whom voted for impeachment. Publisher Larry Flynt offered a reward for such information, and many supporters of Clinton accused Republicans of hypocrisy.\n\nOn the passage of H. Res. 611, Clinton was impeached on December 19, 1998, by the House of Representatives on grounds of perjury to a grand jury (by a 228–206 vote) and obstruction of justice (by a 221–212 vote). Two other articles of impeachment failed – a second count of perjury in the Jones case (by a 205–229 vote) and one accusing Clinton of abuse of power (by a 148–285 vote). Clinton thus became the second U.S. president to be impeached, following Andrew Johnson in 1868. (Clinton was the third sitting president against whom the House of Representatives initiated impeachment proceedings since 1789.)\n\nFive Democrats (Virgil Goode of Virginia, Ralph Hall of Texas, Paul McHale of Pennsylvania, Charles Stenholm of Texas and Gene Taylor of Mississippi) voted in favor of three of the four articles of impeachment, but only Taylor voted for the abuse of power charge. Five Republicans (Amo Houghton of New York, Peter King of New York, Connie Morella of Maryland, Chris Shays of Connecticut and Mark Souder of Indiana) voted against the first perjury charge. Eight more Republicans (Sherwood Boehlert of New York, Michael Castle of Delaware, Phil English of Pennsylvania, Nancy Johnson of Connecticut, Jay Kim of California, Jim Leach of Iowa, John McHugh of New York and Ralph Regula of Ohio), but not Souder, voted against the obstruction charge. Twenty-eight Republicans voted against the second perjury charge, sending it to defeat, and eighty-one voted against the abuse of power charge.\n\nArticle I charged that Clinton lied to the grand jury concerning:\n\nArticle III charged Clinton with attempting to obstruct justice in the Jones case by:\n\nThe Senate trial began on January 7, 1999, with Chief Justice of the United States William Rehnquist presiding. The first day consisted of formal presentation of the charges against Clinton, and of Rehnquist swearing in all arguants in the trial.\n\nThirteen House Republicans from the Judiciary Committee served as \"managers\", the equivalent of prosecutors:\n\nClinton was defended by Cheryl Mills. Clinton's counsel staff included Charles Ruff, David E. Kendall, Dale Bumpers, Bruce Lindsey, Nicole Seligman, Lanny A. Breuer and Gregory B. Craig.\n\nA resolution on rules and procedure for the trial was adopted unanimously on the following day; however, senators tabled the question of whether to call witnesses in the trial. The trial remained in recess while briefs were filed by the House (January 11) and Clinton (January 13).\n\nThe managers presented their case over three days, from January 14 to 16, with discussion of the facts and background of the case; detailed cases for both articles of impeachment (including excerpts from videotaped grand jury testimony that Clinton had made the previous August); matters of interpretation and application of the laws governing perjury and obstruction of justice; and argument that the evidence and precedents justified removal of the President from office by virtue of \"willful, premeditated, deliberate corruption of the nation's system of justice through perjury and obstruction of justice.\" The defense presentation took place from January 19–21. Clinton's defense counsel argued that Clinton's grand jury testimony had too many inconsistencies to be a clear case of perjury, that the investigation and impeachment had been tainted by partisan political bias, that the President's approval rating of more than 70 percent indicated that his ability to govern had not been impaired by the scandal, and that the managers had ultimately presented \"an unsubstantiated, circumstantial case that does not meet the constitutional standard to remove the President from office\". January 22 and 23 were devoted to questions from members of the Senate to the House managers and Clinton's defense counsel. Under the rules, all questions (over 150) were to be written down and given to Rehnquist to read to the party being questioned.\n\nOn January 25, Senator Robert Byrd of West Virginia moved for dismissals of both articles of impeachment for lack of merit. On the following day, Rep. Bryant moved to call witnesses to the trial, a question that the Senate had scrupulously avoided to that point. In both cases, the Senate voted to deliberate on the question in private session, rather than public, televised procedure. On January 27, the Senate voted on both motions in public session; the motion to dismiss failed on a nearly party line vote of 56–44, while the motion to depose witnesses passed by the same margin. A day later, the Senate voted down motions to move directly to a vote on the articles of impeachment and to suppress videotaped depositions of the witnesses from public release, Feingold again voting with the Republicans.\n\nOver three days, February 1–3, House managers took videotaped closed-door depositions from Monica Lewinsky, Clinton's friend Vernon Jordan, and White House aide Sidney Blumenthal. On February 4, however, the Senate voted 70–30 that excerpting these videotapes would suffice as testimony, rather than calling live witnesses to appear at trial. The videos were played in the Senate on February 6, featuring 30 excerpts of Lewinsky discussing her affidavit in the Paula Jones case, the hiding of small gifts Clinton had given her, and his involvement in procurement of a job for Lewinsky.\n\nOn February 8, closing arguments were presented with each side allotted a three-hour time slot. On the President's behalf, White House Counsel Charles Ruff declared:\n\nChief Prosecutor Henry Hyde countered:\n\nOn February 9, after voting against a public deliberation on the verdict, the Senate began closed-door deliberations instead. On February 12, the Senate emerged from its closed deliberations and voted on the articles of impeachment. A two-thirds vote, 67 votes, would have been necessary to convict and remove the President from office. The perjury charge was defeated with 45 votes for conviction and 55 against. (Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania voted \"not proved\" for both charges, which was considered by Chief Justice Rehnquist to constitute a vote of \"not guilty\".) The obstruction of justice charge was defeated with 50 for conviction and 50 against.\n\nAll 45 Democrats in the Senate voted \"not guilty\" on both charges. The five Republican senators who voted against conviction on both charges were John Chafee of Rhode Island, Susan Collins of Maine, Jim Jeffords of Vermont, Olympia Snowe of Maine, and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania. Specter, who said he was not prepared to cast a guilty or not guilty vote, voted \"not proved\", which was counted as a not guilty vote. The additional five Republican senators who voted \"not guilty\" only on the perjury charge were Slade Gorton of Washington, Richard Shelby of Alabama, Ted Stevens of Alaska, Fred Thompson of Tennessee, and John Warner of Virginia.\n\nIn April 1999, about two months after being acquitted by the Senate, Clinton was cited by Federal District Judge Susan Webber Wright for civil contempt of court for his \"willful failure\" to obey her repeated orders to testify truthfully in the Paula Jones sexual harassment lawsuit. For this citation, Clinton was assessed a $90,000 fine, and the matter was referred to the Arkansas Supreme Court to see if disciplinary action would be appropriate.\n\nRegarding Clinton's January 17, 1998, deposition where he was placed under oath, the judge wrote:\n\nSimply put, the president's deposition testimony regarding whether he had ever been alone with Ms. (Monica) Lewinsky was intentionally false, and his statements regarding whether he had ever engaged in sexual relations with Ms. Lewinsky likewise were intentionally false ...\n\nOn the day before leaving office in January 2001, President Clinton agreed to a five-year suspension of his Arkansas law license as part of an agreement with the independent counsel to end the investigation. Clinton was automatically suspended from the United States Supreme Court bar as a result of his law license suspension. However, as is customary, he was allowed 40 days to appeal an otherwise-automatic disbarment. The former President resigned from the Supreme Court bar during the 40-day appeals period.\n\nEventually, the court dismissed the Paula Jones harassment lawsuit, before trial, on the grounds that Jones failed to demonstrate any damages. However, while the dismissal was on appeal, Clinton entered into an out-of-court settlement by agreeing to pay Jones $850,000.\n\nPolls conducted during 1998 and early 1999 showed that only about one-third of Americans supported Clinton's impeachment or conviction. However, one year later, when it was clear that House impeachment would not lead to the ousting of the President, half of Americans said in a CNN/\"USA Today\"/Gallup poll that they supported impeachment but 57% approved of the Senate's decision to keep him in office and two thirds of those polled said the impeachment was harmful to the country.\n\nWhile Clinton's job approval rating rose during the Lewinsky scandal and subsequent impeachment, his poll numbers with regard to questions of honesty, integrity and moral character declined. As a result, \"moral character\" and \"honesty\" weighed heavily in the next presidential election. According to \"The Daily Princetonian\", after the 2000 presidential election, \"post-election polls found that, in the wake of Clinton-era scandals, the single most significant reason people voted for Bush was for his moral character.\"\nAccording to an analysis of the election by Stanford University:\n\nThe Stanford analysis, however, presented different theories and mainly argued that Gore had lost because he decided to distance himself from Clinton during the campaign. The writers of it concluded:\n\nAccording to the America's Future Foundation:\n\nPolitical commentators have argued that Gore's refusal to have Clinton campaign with him was a bigger liability to Gore than Clinton's scandals. The 2000 US Congressional election also saw the Democrats gain more seats in Congress. As a result of this gain, control of the US Senate was split 50–50 between both parties, and Democrats would regain control over the US Senate after Republican Senator Jim Jeffords defected from his party in the spring of 2001 and agreed to caucus with the Democrats.\n\nAl Gore reportedly confronted Clinton after the election, and \"tried to explain that keeping Clinton under wraps [during the campaign] was a rational response to polls showing swing voters were still mad as hell over the Year of Monica\". According to the AP, \"during the one-on-one meeting at the White House, which lasted more than an hour, Gore used uncommonly blunt language to tell Clinton that his sex scandal and low personal approval ratings were a hurdle he could not surmount in his campaign ... [with] the core of the dispute was Clinton's lies to Gore and the nation about his affair with White House intern Monica Lewinsky.\"<ref name=\";/x\"></ref> Clinton, however, was unconvinced by Gore's argument and insisted to Gore that he would have won the election if he had embraced the administration and its good economic record.\n\nOf the 13 members of the House who managed Clinton's trial in the Senate, one lost to a Democrat in his 2000 bid for re-election (James E. Rogan, to Adam Schiff). Charles Canady retired from Congress in 2000, following through on a previous term limits pledge to voters, and Bill McCollum ran unsuccessfully for the U.S. Senate. Asa Hutchinson, after being re-elected in 2000, left Congress after being appointed head of the Drug Enforcement Administration by President George W. Bush. In 2014, Hutchinson was elected governor of Arkansas. In 2002, two former House managers lost their seats after redistricting placed them in the same district as another incumbent (Bob Barr lost to John Linder in a Republican primary, and George Gekas lost to Democrat Tim Holden), while two more ran for the U.S. Senate (Lindsey Graham successfully, Ed Bryant unsuccessfully). The other five remained in the House well into the 2000s (decade), and two (Jim Sensenbrenner and Steve Chabot) are still members (although Chabot lost his seat to Steve Driehaus in the 2008 elections; Chabot defeated Driehaus in a 2010 rematch). In 2009, Sensenbrenner served again as a manager for the impeachment of Judge Samuel B. Kent of Texas as well as serving in 2010 as Republican lead manager in the impeachment of Judge Thomas Porteous of Louisiana.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10919618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10919618", "title": "Israel–United States military relations", "text": "Israel–United States military relations\n\nMilitary relations between Israel and the United States have been consistently close, reflecting shared security interests in the Middle East. A major purchaser and user of U.S. military equipment, Israel is also involved in the joint development of military technology and regularly engages in joint military exercises involving United States and other forces. The relationship has deepened gradually over time, though, as Alan Dowty puts it, it was \"not a simple linear process of growing cooperation, but rather a series of tendentious bargaining situations with different strategic and political components in each.\"\n\nU.S. President Obama's former Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates categorized the relationship between U.S. and Israel with the following: \"I cannot recall a time during my public life when our two countries have had a closer defense relationship. The U.S. and Israel are cooperating closely in areas such as missile defense technology, the Joint Strike Fighter, and in training exercises such as Juniper Stallion...our bilateral relationship and this dialogue is so critical because Israel lives at the focal point of some of the biggest security challenges facing the free world: violent extremism, the proliferation of nuclear technologies, and the dilemmas posed by adversarial and failed states. And I think it important, especially at a time of such dramatic change in the region, to reaffirm once more America’s unshakable commitment to Israel’s security.\"\n\nFollowing the Second World War, the “new postwar era witnessed an intensive involvement of the United States in the political and economic affairs of the Middle East, in contrast to the hands-off attitude characteristic of the prewar period. [U]nder Truman the United States had to face and define its policy in all three sectors that provided the root causes of American interests in the region: the Soviet threat, the birth of Israel, and petroleum.”\n\nDuring the first twenty years following Israel's independence, United States policy in the Middle East was driven by two major policy concerns: The prevention of an arms race in the Near East, and the prevention of the spread of Soviet influence. The Truman Administration promulgated the Tripartite Declaration of 1950 for these reasons, as well as to guarantee the territorial \"status quo\" determined by 1949 Armistice Agreements. Israel's main military patron at the time was France, which supported Israel by providing it with advanced military equipment and technology, such as the Dassault Mystère fighter-bomber aircraft. Initially, the U.S. government resisted pressure by Israel and Arab countries in the region to sell them advanced weapons. In response to the supply of advanced fighter aircraft by the USSR to Iraq and the United Arab Republic, the U.S. government agreed to sell MIM-23 Hawk anti-aircraft missiles to Israel in 1962, as a \"specific action designed to meet a specific situation\" which \"by no means constitutes change in U.S. policy in area.\". The Hawk system was approved on the grounds that it was a \"purely defensive\" weapon. Later, when Jordan threatened to turn to the USSR for weapons, the U.S. agreed to sell tanks and jet aircraft to Jordan in order to prevent the spread of Soviet influence, and in return, agreed to sell similar systems to Israel.\n\nDuring the early 1960s, the U.S. government sought to establish a regional arms limitation agreement in the Middle East. The initiative lost steam in early 1965 after it was disclosed that the U.S. had been indirectly supplying weapons to Israel via West Germany since 1962, under the terms of a 1960 secret agreement to supply Israel with $80 million worth of armaments. The remainder of the agreement was fulfilled publicly, following its disclosure by the U.S., with Israel receiving shipments of M48 Patton tanks in 1965 and A-4E Skyhawk attack aircraft in 1968.\nU.S. policy changed markedly after the Six-Day War of 1967, in response to a perception that many Arab states (notably Egypt) had permanently drifted toward the Soviet Union. In 1968, with strong support from Congress, U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson approved the sale of F-4 Phantom II fighters to Israel, establishing the precedent for U.S. support for Israel's qualitative military edge over its neighbors. The U.S., however, would continue to supply arms to Israel's neighbors, particularly Lebanon, Jordan and Saudi Arabia, in order to counter Soviet arms sales and influence in the region.\n\nDuring the Yom Kippur War in 1973, the U.S. mounted a major airlift codenamed Operation Nickel Grass to deliver weapons and supplies to Israel. Over 22,000 tons of tanks, artillery, ammunition, and other materiel were delivered to aid the Israeli military in response to a large-scale Soviet resupply effort of the Arab states. The operation was paralleled by a large-scale sealift of some 33,000 tons of materiel and the transfer of 40 F-4 Phantoms, 36 A-4 Skyhawks and twelve C-130 Hercules transport aircraft to replace Israeli war losses.\n\nBilateral military cooperation deepened under the Ronald Reagan administration in the 1980s. In 1981, U.S. Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger and Israeli Minister of Defense Ariel Sharon signed the Strategic Cooperation Agreement, establishing a framework for continued consultation and cooperation to enhance the national security of both countries. In November 1983, the two sides formed a Joint Political Military Group, which still meets twice a year, to implement most provisions of the MOU. Joint air and sea military exercises began in June 1984, and the United States has constructed facilities to stockpile military equipment in Israel.\nIn 1987, the United States granted Israel the status of major non-NATO ally, enabling it to compete equally with NATO and other US allies for contracts and purchase advanced US weapons systems. Israel became the largest recipient of United States military aid in the world (see military aid and procurement below). In 1988, Reagan and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir signed a memorandum of understanding to formalize and perpetuate the work of the bilateral US-Israel military, security and economic working groups.\n\nIn an effort to prevent Israel from retaliating against Iraqi SS-1 Scud missile attacks during the Persian Gulf war of 1991, and thereby breaking up the US-Arab coalition, the US dispatched MIM-104 Patriot surface-to-air missile batteries to Israel. The effort met with very limited success, with less than 10% and perhaps as few as none of the Scuds fired against Israel intercepted successfully.\n\nUnder the Bill Clinton administration in the 1990s, the US government made efforts to bolster the Israeli government's military edge by allowing it to purchase $700m of the latest U.S. military equipment, including advanced fighters, attack helicopters and the Joint Direct Attack Munition system. A series of major joint military technology development projects was also instituted.\n\nFurther extensive military cooperation took place under the George W. Bush administration, with Israel placing major orders for F-16I multirole fighters. During the 2006 Lebanon War, the United States provided a major resupply of jet fuel and precision-guided munition to replenish depleted Israeli stocks.\n\nThe United States and Israel cooperate closely in a number of areas of military activity.\nThe U.S. underwrites some of Israel's research and development of weapons, and has contributed significant amounts of money to Israeli defense projects such as the Merkava main battle tank and the IAI Lavi ground-attack aircraft. Israel is a participant in the F-35 Lightning II fighter development program and was offered access to the F-22 Raptor program, though it turned this down due to the high costs.\n\nThe U.S. and Israel also cooperate jointly on a number of technology development programs, notably the Arrow missile system and the Tactical High Energy Laser (also known as Nautilus).\nThe two countries carry out regular exercises together, including carrying out biennial exercises codenamed Juniper Cobra intended to test interoperability between the two militaries. In addition, the Israeli port of Haifa is the main port of call in the eastern Mediterranean for the United States Sixth Fleet, and Israel provides other logistical and maintenance support for U.S. forces in the region. The two countries also share intelligence and maintain a joint anti-terrorist working group, and in April 2007 their air forces committed to share information about mutually relevant procurements.\n\nThe United States has stored military equipment in Israel since the early 1990s and may store additional equipment in Israel when withdrawing from Iraq.\n\nCurrently the only active foreign military installation on Israeli soil is the American AN/TPY-2 early missile warning radar station on Mt. Keren also known as the Dimona Radar Facility.\n\nIn October 2012, United States and Israel began their biggest joint air and missile defense exercise, known as Austere Challenge 12, involving around 3,500 U.S. troops in the region along with 1,000 IDF personnel. Germany and Britain also participated.\n\nThe close military relationship between the U.S. and Israel has engendered a number of controversies over the years. Operation Nickel Grass—the U.S. resupply effort during the Yom Kippur War—led to retaliation by the Arab states, as OAPEC members declared a complete oil embargo on the United States, provoking the 1973 oil crisis.\n\nThe United States stipulates that U.S. military equipment provided through the FMS program can be used only for internal security or defensive purposes. Consequently, after allegations were made that Israel had used cluster bombs for offensive purposes during the 1982 Lebanon War, the United States suspended shipments of cluster bombs to Israel Similar allegations were made regarding Israeli use of weapons supplied by the U.S. in the course of the 2006 Lebanon War and the Palestinian s\n\nAmerican use of its military aid for political pressure on Israel, as well as the economic and strategic restrictions attached to it, has made some Israelis question the value of American military aid. Israeli columnist Caroline Glick has argued that Israel's interests may be best served by ending the military assistance, and urged her government to initiate a conversation on cutting back on the assistance package. Former Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Arens also opposes continued US aid, arguing that Israel no longer needs it. Several Israeli political parties, including National Union, oppose the aid and propose a gradual reduction in dependency on it.\n\nThe Kirk-Menendez-Schumer bill would for the first time commit the United States to provide \"diplomatic, military and economic\" support for offensive actions by Israel.\n\nIn January 2014, it was reported that Israel and the United States had been quietly discussing the prospect of ending US aid, with representatives from both countries agreeing at bilateral meetings that Israel no longer needs US military aid. According to Daniel C. Kurtzer, a former US ambassador to Israel, \"we may be reaching a point that after discussion of how to assure the security and intelligence cooperation, we can actually phase out the security assistance\".\n\nFollowing the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict, when the United States temporarily suspended arms shipments to Israel, Israel reportedly reassessed its views on US aid, particularly on the view that it could always depend on a US resupply during wartime, and initiated new weapons projects to reduce its dependence on US weapons in favor of locally-made ones.\n\nIn terms of total money received, Israel is the largest cumulative recipient of military assistance from the United States since World War II, followed by Vietnam, Egypt, Afghanistan, and Turkey. About three quarters of the aid is earmarked for purchases of military equipment from U.S. companies and the rest is spent on domestic equipment.\n\nSince 1987, the U.S. has provided an average of $1.8 billion annually in the form of Foreign Military Sales (FMS), Foreign Military Financing (FMF) and funds to support research and development. A bilateral memorandum of understanding was signed in January 2001, at the end of the Clinton administration, under which defense aid was increased to $2.4 billion annually from $1.8 billion, while the $1.2 billion of economic aid would be eliminated. This was predicated on the basis of the defense aid being increased by $60 million per year until the full amount was reached in 2008, while the economic aid is decreased by $120 million per year until eliminated. In 2007, the United States increased its military aid to Israel by over 25%, to an average of $3 billion per year for the following ten-year period (starting at $2.550 billion for 2008, growing by $150 million each year). The package started in October 2008, when regular aid to Israel's economy ended. Officials have insisted the aid is not tied, or meant to balance, simultaneous American plans to sell $20 billion worth of sophisticated arms to its Arab allies in the region, including Egypt and Saudi Arabia. Former U.S. President George W. Bush assured Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert that the U.S. would help keep a \"qualitative advantage\" to Israel over other nations in the region.\n\nThe United States is the largest single supplier of military equipment to Israel. According to the U.S. Congressional Research Service, between 1998–2005 the U.S. accounted for the vast majority of Israel's arms transfer agreements, accounting for $9.1 billion out of $9.5 billion worth of agreements. Israel deals directly with U.S. companies for the vast majority of its military purchases from the United States, though it requires permission from the U.S. government for specific purchases. Permission is not always automatic; for instance, in March 2000 it became known that the Israeli government had been refused permission to purchase BGM-109 Tomahawk missiles.\n\nIsrael has the world's largest F-16 fleet outside the United States Air Force. With the delivery of 102 F-16Is, scheduled through 2008, the Israeli Air Force will have a total F-16 inventory of 362, in addition to 106 F-15s.\n\nIn December 2016, the United States delivered the first two F-35 “Adir” stealth fighter planes, a version of the Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II, arrived to Israel, the first of its kind in the Middle East. In April 2017, the United States delivered an additional three to total five F-35 stealth fighters now operated under the Israeli Air Force Israel was the first country outside of the United States to receive the F-35 and is expecting to receive a total of 50 over the coming years, achieving two full squadrons by 2022. This delivery is due to the strong partnership that the two countries had in the manufacturing of the fighter jet. Israeli technology, aerospace and defense companies played a pivotal role in the technological innovation giving the plane its immense capabilities. Eventually, Israel hopes to further accommodate its air force with the F-35B STOVL. Recent US Tomahawk strikes into Syria demonstrate that fixed airfields could easily be destroyed or temporarily be made unavailable. The F35B-model has both short take off and vertical landing capability, making it a strong threat in such a small region with constant warfare.\n\n\"Note: This is not a comprehensive listing of U.S. military sales to Israel.\"\n\n\"Note: This is not a comprehensive listing of US ESF and military aid to Israel.\"\n\nThis is not a comprehensive list. In addition to indigenously developed military equipment, Israel has made a number of procurements from the United States in recent years, including systems procured directly from U.S. manufacturers and ex-U.S. Forces equipment. The Israel Defense Forces also makes use of U.S. military systems not necessarily procured directly from the U.S. The list below includes U.S.-made weapon systems paid for from funding provided by the USA, by Israel alone, or by a combination of funding from both nations. All data is from Jane's \"Sentinel Eastern Mediterranean 2007\" unless otherwise stated.\n\nThere are few statistics available about Israeli arms sales to the USA. The following weapons are known to be in use by the American military.\n\n"}
{"id": "216746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216746", "title": "John Holt (educator)", "text": "John Holt (educator)\n\nJohn Caldwell Holt (April 14, 1923 – September 14, 1985) was an American author and educator, a proponent of homeschooling and, specifically, the unschooling approach, and a pioneer in youth rights theory.\n\nHolt became disillusioned with the school system after several years of working within it; he became convinced that reform of the school system was not possible and began to advocate homeschooling. He believed that \"children who were provided with a rich and stimulating learning environment would learn what they are ready to learn, when they are ready to learn it\".\nHolt believed that children did not need to be coerced into learning; they would do so naturally if given the freedom to follow their own interests and a rich assortment of resources. This line of thought came to be called unschooling.\n\nHolt's \"Growing Without Schooling\" (\"GWS\"), founded in 1977, was America's first home education newsletter. He also set up John Holt's Bookstore, which made selected books available by mail order. This brought in additional revenue that helped sustain the newsletter, which carried very little advertising.\n\nHolt's sole book on homeschooling, \"Teach Your Own\", was published in 1981. It quickly became the \"Bible\" of the early homeschooling movement. It was revised by his colleague Patrick Farenga and republished in 2003 by Perseus Books.\n\nHolt wrote several books that have greatly influenced the unschooling movement. His writings have influenced many individuals and organizations, including the Evergreen State College, Caleb Gattegno, Americans for a Society Free from Age Restrictions, the National Youth Rights Association, and the Freechild Project.\n\nHolt did not have a teaching degree, which many believe allowed for his work in the private school sector to make way for him to have a more objective opinion on the American school system. Being new to the environment, it is thought that he was able to make more objective distinctions than other educators, as to what the schools said they were doing and what they were actually doing. For the first many years of his teaching career, he maintained the belief that schools overall were not meeting their missions due to using the wrong methods and pedagogical approaches, and that these failures were the cause for rendering young scholars as children who were less willing to learn and more focused on avoiding the embarrassment and ridicule of not learning.\n\nAs Holt wrote in his first book, \"How Children Fail\" (1964) \"...after all, if they (meaning us) know that you can't do anything, then they won't blame you or punish you for not being able to do what you have been told to do.\" This notion led him to make changes within his own classroom to provide an environment in which his students would feel more comfortable and confident. With the support of his colleague Bill Hull, Holt began putting less emphasis on grades and tests, and began taking steps to decrease the notion of ranking the children. He focused on his students being able to grasp concepts, rather than having them work for the correct answer. Instead of using the typical methods to determine students' progress, he adopted a more student-centered approach. Patrick Farenga paraphrased Holt's distinction between good and bad students: \"a good student is careful not to forget what he studied until after the test is taken.\" Eventually, his new methods for teaching caused him to be terminated from his position, which he claimed was due to the school wanting to maintain \"old 'new' ideas not new 'new' ideas.\"\n\nAfter leaving Colorado, Holt sought other opportunities in education. Although it took him some time to come to a conclusion about his own thoughts on education as well as make sense of his observations, studies, and data, ultimately he felt that schools were \"a place where children learn to be stupid.\" Once he developed this conclusion, his focus shifted to making suggestions to help teachers and parents capable of teaching their children how to learn, thus prompting his second book, \"How Children Learn\", in 1967. Despite his successful career, he still met rejections, resentment, and false hopes from colleagues and school systems surrounding his ideas and methods. This reality pushed him further and further into the idea of deschooling.\n\nAfter a few more years of teaching and some visiting professor positions at area universities, Holt wrote his next two books, \"The Underachieving School\" (1969) and \"What Do I Do Monday?\" (1970). Both books focused on his belief that schools weren't working and ideas about how they could be better. Holt had determined by this time that the changes he would like to see happen in the school systems were not likely to become a reality. These changes included the relationship between children and the teachers and school community. At this point in the history of education, the free school movement was in full swing, and his next book, \"Freedom and Beyond\" (1972), questioned much of what teachers and educators really meant when they suggested children should have more freedom in the classroom. While Holt was an advocate of children having more rights and abilities to make decisions for themselves, he felt that the free school movement was not the answer to the question of how to fix the school system.\n\nHolt then wrote \"Escape from Childhood: The Needs and Rights of Children\" (1974), in which he claimed that children should have independence including the right to work for money, receive fair and equal treatment, the right to vote, and even the right to choose new parents. At the time, his notions of children having so many rights and responsibilities was not very popular, but since then the court systems have seen more and more cases of children attempting to realise many of Holt's suggestions, such as choosing their legal guardian.\n\nAlthough many of Holt's previous works had discussed the needed reform and failure of the traditional school system, his seventh book, \"Instead of Education: Ways to Help People do Better\" (1976), focused more on his encouragement that parents find legal ways to remove their children from compulsory schools. Specifically, he referred to an Underground Railroad in which schoolchildren could escape the failing school systems of which he had been so critical. The book caused a number of parents to reach out to him regarding their own homeschooling of their children. This correspondence grew so much that he decided to start a newsletter for homeschooling parents. In 1977 \"Growing Without Schooling\" was developed and distributed. It is thought that this newsletter is the first published periodical regarding homeschooling in the United States.\n\nHolt's focus began to switch from critiquing school systems and writing from afar to speaking engagements and educating adults on how they can teach their children while learning themselves. His next book, \"Never Too Late: My Musical Autobiography\" (1978), focused on showing adults that they were not too old to learn new things. This was translated into ways in which parents who had no experience in education could learn to teach their children on their own in a homeschooling setting.\n\nIn 1981, the first edition of Holt's most noteworthy book on unschooling, \"Teach Your Own: The John Holt Manual on Homeschooling\", was published. This book, as noted in the first lines of the introduction, is \"about ways we can teach children, or rather, allow them to learn, outside of schools—at home, or in whatever other places and situations (and the more the better) we can make available to them. It is in part an argument in favor of doing it, in part a report of the people who are doing it, and in part a manual of action for people who want to do it.\" This manual has since been revised by Holt follower and homeschooling parent Patrick Farenga, and is still distributed today.\n\nEven after Holt's death in 1985, his influence on homeschooling continued through his work. His final book, \"Learning All the Time: How Small Children Begin to Read, Write, Count and Investigate the World, Without Being Taught\", was published posthumously in 1989. It contained a number of his writings for \"Growing Without Schooling\". The \"GWS\"' newsletter has since garnered followings in a number of different countries and has been continuously distributed since its inception as a tool for the promotion and encouragement of homeschooling in light of the lack of school system reform.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54532686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54532686", "title": "Journals of legislative bodies", "text": "Journals of legislative bodies\n\nPublications of minutes and proceedings, often known as journals, of legislatures are often kept for record-keeping. Unlike government gazettes which publish government notices and the like for general public dissemination, journals of these bodies merely records their proceedings and are not necessarily meant for the general public.\n\nThe journals of the British Houses of Parliament, alongside the \"Hansard\", contain an official record of the Houses of Parliament. The journals are a lengthened account written from the \"Votes and Proceedings\" (in the House of Lords called \"Minutes of Proceedings\"), made day by day by the Clerks at the Table, and printed on the responsibility of the Clerk of the House. In the Commons the Votes and Proceedings, but not the Journal, bear the Speaker's signature in fulfilment of a former order that he should \"peruse\" them before publication. The journals of the British House of Commons begin in the first year of the reign of Edward VI in 1547, and are complete, except for a short interval under Elizabeth I. Those of the House of Lords date from the first year of Henry VIII in 1509. Before that date the proceedings in parliament were entered in the Rolls of Parliament, which extend from 1278 to 1503. The journals of the Lords are \"records\" in the judicial sense; those of the Commons are not. The \"Hansard\", which is available from 1803, contains printed transcripts of parliamentary debates.\n\nThe \"Congressional Record\" is the official record of the proceedings and debates of the United States Congress. It is published by the United States Government Publishing Office, and is issued when the United States Congress is in session. Indexes are issued approximately every two weeks. At the end of a session of Congress, the daily editions are compiled in bound volumes constituting the permanent edition.\n\n\"The City Record\" is the official journal of New York City. It is published each weekday (except legal holidays) and contains legal notices produced by city agencies, including notices of proposed and adopted rules, procurement solicitations and awards, upcoming public hearings and meetings, public auctions and property dispositions, and selected court decisions.\n"}
{"id": "12449898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12449898", "title": "LGBT rights in Turkmenistan", "text": "LGBT rights in Turkmenistan\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) persons in Turkmenistan face legal challenges not experienced by non-LGBT residents. Male homosexuality is illegal in Turkmenistan and is punished by imprisonment for a term of up to two years.\n\nCriminal Code of 1997 (Effective 1 January 1998)\n\nChapter 18: Crimes against morality\n\nSection 135: Homosexual acts\n\n\"(1) Homosexual acts, i.e. sexual intercourse between men, shall be punished with a term of imprisonment of up to two years.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "24783617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24783617", "title": "Laser warning receiver", "text": "Laser warning receiver\n\nA laser warning receiver is a type of warning system used as a passive military defence. It detects, analyzes, and locates directions of laser emissions from laser guidance systems and laser rangefinders. Then it alerts the crew and can start various countermeasures, like smoke screen, aerosol screen (e.g. Shtora), active laser self-defence weapon with laser dazzler (LSDW, used on Type 99 China main battle tank), laser jammer, etc.\n\nDetectors used in LWR are usually based on a semiconductor photodetector array, which is typically cryogenically or thermal-electric cooled. Sometimes avalanche photodiodes (APD), photoconductivity, photoelectromagnetic, or photodiffusion devices are used even without cooling. Some devices detect only the main beam of foreign lasers while others detect even scattered rays.\n\n\nSome models used by US are listed:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24555034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24555034", "title": "Lester Asheim", "text": "Lester Asheim\n\nLester Eugene Asheim (January 22, 1914 – July 1, 1997) was a librarian and scholar of library science. \nHe was on the faculty of the University of Chicago and the University of North Carolina and held positions in the American Library Association (ALA).\nHe was included among the \"100 most important leaders we had in the 20th century\" by the American Library Association.\n\nLester Asheim was born on January 22, 1914 in Spokane, Washington. His family moved to Seattle, which is where he grew up until he went to the University of Washington. While there he earned two undergraduate degrees, one in English in 1936, and another in Librarianship in 1937. He also earned his Masters in American literature in 1941 from the same institution.\n\nWhen the United States entered World War II, Asheim joined the Army Signal Corps for three years. After his tour of duty, Asheim attended the University of Chicago. He earned his Ph.D in Librarianship from the University's graduate program in 1949.\n\nAsheims' first faculty position was at the University of Chicago, which started in 1948 while he was still attaining his Ph.D. He became dean in 1952 and held the position until he left the school in 1961. From 1961 until 1971 he held two different positions with the American Library Association (ALA). His first was Director of International relations until 1966, then he moved on to be the Director of the ALA's office for library education. Asheim left the ALA in 1971 to return to the University of Chicago as a faculty member. In 1975 he accepted a position as a faculty member at the University of North Carolina. He remained at the School of Information and Library Science until his retirement in 1984. His papers are archived at the Southern Historical Collection of the Wilson Library on the University of North Carolina at the Chapel Hill campus \n\nAsheim died on July 1, 1997, in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. The Library and Science department at the University Of North Carolina has created a scholarship fund in his name.\n\nAsheim made some of the most important contributions in Library science through his work on censorship in the library atmosphere. Asheim was an active librarian in a time of great growth in the library science community. His most famous article entitled \"Not Censorship, But Selection\" has become as ingrained to library science as the five laws of Ranganathan.\n\nAsheim's article articulated the difference between censorship and selection in several parts that address each of the problems that were associated with collection continuation. He presents and advocates several rules that librarians should follow in deciding what materials to include and exclude in their libraries' collections.\n\nAsheim's article is still cited by library science community decades later when dealing with the problems of cyber materials. The article \"Lester Asheim in Cyberspace: A tribute to Sound reasoning\" by June Pinnell-Stephens takes Asheim's arguments and applies them to the cyber age.\n\n\nProfessor Asheim received many awards during his lifetime. These included:\n\nIn 1979, in honor of Asheim's 65th birthday, the festschrift, a collection of articles written in his honor, \"As Much to Learn as to Teach\" was published.\n"}
{"id": "17633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17633", "title": "Libya", "text": "Libya\n\nLibya (; , ), officially the State of Libya, is a country in North Africa, bordered by the Mediterranean Sea to the north, Egypt to the east, Sudan to the southeast, Chad and Niger to the south and Algeria and Tunisia to the west. The sovereign state is made of three historical regions: Tripolitania, Fezzan and Cyrenaica. With an area of almost , Libya is the fourth largest country in Africa, and is the 16th largest country in the world. Libya has the 10th-largest proven oil reserves of any country in the world. The largest city and capital, Tripoli, is located in western Libya and contains over one million of Libya's six million people. The second-largest city is Benghazi, which is located in eastern Libya.\n\nLibya has been inhabited by Berbers since the late Bronze Age. The Phoenicians established trading posts in western Libya, and ancient Greek colonists established city-states in eastern Libya. Libya was variously ruled by Carthaginians, Persians, Egyptians and Greeks before becoming a part of the Roman Empire. Libya was an early centre of Christianity. After the fall of the Western Roman Empire, the area of Libya was mostly occupied by the Vandals until the 7th century, when invasions brought Islam to the region. In the 16th century, the Spanish Empire and the Knights of St John occupied Tripoli, until Ottoman rule began in 1551. Libya was involved in the Barbary Wars of the 18th and 19th centuries. Ottoman rule continued until the Italian occupation of Libya resulted in the temporary Italian Libya colony from 1911 to 1943. During the Second World War, Libya was an important area of warfare in the North African Campaign. The Italian population then went into decline.\n\nLibya became independent as a kingdom in 1951. A military coup in 1969 overthrew King Idris I. The \"bloodless\" coup leader Muammar Gaddafi ruled the country from 1969 and the Libyan Cultural Revolution in 1973 until he was overthrown and killed in the 2011 Libyan Civil War. Two authorities initially claimed to govern Libya: the Council of Deputies in Tobruk and the 2014 General National Congress (GNC) in Tripoli, which considered itself the continuation of the General National Congress, elected in 2012. After UN-led peace talks between the Tobruk and Tripoli governments, a unified interim UN-backed Government of National Accord was established in 2015, and the GNC disbanded to support it. Parts of Libya remain outside either government's control, with various Islamist, rebel and tribal militias administering some areas. As of July 2017, talks are still ongoing between the GNA and the Tobruk-based authorities to end the strife and unify the divided establishments of the state, including the Libyan National Army and the Central Bank of Libya.\n\nLibya is a member of the United Nations (since 1955), the Non-Aligned Movement, the Arab League, the OIC and OPEC. The country's official religion is Islam, with 96.6% of the Libyan population being Sunni Muslims.\n\nThe Latin name Libya (from Greek Λιβύη, Libyē) referred to the region west of the Nile generally corresponding to its central location in North Africa historically visited by many Mediterranean cultures which referred to its original inhabitants as the \"Libúē.\" The name \"Libya\" was introduced in 1934 for Italian Libya, reviving the historical name for Northwest Africa, from the ancient Greek (\"\"). It was intended to supplant terms applied to Ottoman Tripolitania, the coastal region of what is today Libya having been ruled by the Ottoman Empire from 1551 to 1911, as the Eyalet of Tripolitania. The name \"Libya\" was brought back into use in 1903 by Italian geographer Federico Minutilli.\n\nLibya gained independence in 1951 as the United Libyan Kingdom ( '), changing its name to the Kingdom of Libya ( ') in 1963. Following a coup d'état led by Muammar Gaddafi in 1969, the name of the state was changed to the Libyan Arab Republic ( '). The official name was \"Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya\" from 1977 to 1986, and \"Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya\" ( ' ) from 1986 to 2011.\n\nThe National Transitional Council, established in 2011, referred to the state as simply \"Libya\". The UN formally recognized the country as \"Libya\" in September 2011, based on a request from the Permanent Mission of Libya citing the Libyan interim Constitutional Declaration of 3 August 2011. In November 2011, the ISO 3166-1 was altered to reflect the new country name \"Libya\" in English, \"Libye (la)\" in French.\n\nIn December 2017 the Permanent Mission of Libya to the United Nations informed the United Nations that the country's official name was henceforth the \"State of Libya\"; \"Libya\" remained the official short form, and the country continued to be listed under \"L\" in alphabetical lists.\n\nThe coastal plain of Libya was inhabited by Neolithic peoples from as early as 8000 BC. The Afroasiatic ancestors of the Berber people are assumed to have spread into the area by the Late Bronze Age. The earliest known name of such a tribe was the Garamantes, based in Germa. The Phoenicians were the first to establish trading posts in Libya. By the 5th century BC, the greatest of the Phoenician colonies, Carthage, had extended its hegemony across much of North Africa, where a distinctive civilization, known as Punic, came into being.\n\nIn 630 BC, the ancient Greeks colonized Eastern Libya and founded the city of Cyrene. Within 200 years, four more important Greek cities were established in the area that became known as Cyrenaica. \n\n\nIn 525 BC the Persian army of Cambyses II overran Cyrenaica, which for the next two centuries remained under Persian or Egyptian rule. Alexander the Great was greeted by the Greeks when he entered Cyrenaica in 331 BC, and Eastern Libya again fell under the control of the Greeks, this time as part of the Ptolemaic Kingdom.\n\nAfter the fall of Carthage the Romans did not immediately occupy Tripolitania (the region around Tripoli), but left it instead under control of the kings of Numidia, until the coastal cities asked and obtained its protection. Ptolemy Apion, the last Greek ruler, bequeathed Cyrenaica to Rome, which formally annexed the region in 74 BC and joined it to Crete as a Roman province. As part of the Africa Nova province, Tripolitania was prosperous, and reached a golden age in the 2nd and 3rd centuries, when the city of Leptis Magna, home to the Severan dynasty, was at its height.\n\nOn the Eastern side, Cyrenaica's first Christian communities were established by the time of the Emperor Claudius. It was heavily devastated during the Kitos War and almost depopulated of Greeks and Jews alike. Although repopulated by Trajan with military colonies, from then started its decline. Libya was early to convert to Nicene Christianity and was the home of Pope Victor I; however, Libya was a hotbed for early heresies such as Arianism and Donatism.\nThe decline of the Roman Empire saw the classical cities fall into ruin, a process hastened by the Vandals' destructive sweep through North Africa in the 5th century. When the Empire returned (now as East Romans) as part of Justinian's reconquests of the 6th century, efforts were made to strengthen the old cities, but it was only a last gasp before they collapsed into disuse. Cyrenaica, which had remained an outpost of the Byzantine Empire during the Vandal period, also took on the characteristics of an armed camp. Unpopular Byzantine governors imposed burdensome taxation to meet military costs, while the towns and public services—including the water system—were left to decay. By the beginning of the 7th century, Byzantine control over the region was weak, Berber rebellions were becoming more frequent, and there was little to oppose Muslim invasion.\n\nUnder the command of 'Amr ibn al-'As, the Rashidun army conquered Cyrenaica. In 647 an army led by Abdullah ibn Saad took Tripoli from the Byzantines definitively. The Fezzan was conquered by Uqba ibn Nafi in 663. The Berber tribes of the hinterland accepted Islam, however they resisted Arab political rule.\n\nFor the next several decades, Libya was under the purview of the Umayyad Caliph of Damascus until the Abbasids overthrew the Umayyads in 750, and Libya came under the rule of Baghdad. When Caliph Harun al-Rashid appointed Ibrahim ibn al-Aghlab as his governor of Ifriqiya in 800, Libya enjoyed considerable local autonomy under the Aghlabid dynasty. By the 10th century, the Shiite Fatimids controlled Western Libya, and ruled the entire region in 972 and appointed Bologhine ibn Ziri as governor.\n\nIbn Ziri's Berber Zirid dynasty ultimately broke away from the Shiite Fatimids, and recognised the Sunni Abbasids of Baghdad as rightful Caliphs. In retaliation, the Fatimids brought about the migration of thousands from mainly two Arab Qaisi tribes, the Banu Sulaym and Banu Hilal to North Africa. This act drastically altered the fabric of the Libyan countryside, and cemented the cultural and linguistic Arabisation of the region.\n\nZirid rule in Tripolitania was short-lived though, and already in 1001 the Berbers of the Banu Khazrun broke away. Tripolitania remained under their control until 1146, when the region was overtaken by the Normans of Sicily. It was not until 1159 that the Moroccan Almohad leader Abd al-Mu'min reconquered Tripoli from European rule. For the next 50 years, Tripolitania was the scene of numerous battles among Ayyubids, the Almohad rulers and insurgents of the Banu Ghaniya. Later, a general of the Almohads, Muhammad ibn Abu Hafs, ruled Libya from 1207 to 1221 before the later establishment of a Tunisian Hafsid dynasty independent from the Almohads. The Hafsids ruled Tripolitania for nearly 300 years. By the 16th century the Hafsids became increasingly caught up in the power struggle between Spain and the Ottoman Empire.\n\nAfter weakening control of Abbasids, Cyrenaica was under Egypt based states such as Tulunids, Ikhshidids, Ayyubids and Mamluks before Ottoman conquest in 1517. Finally Fezzan acquired independence under Awlad Muhammad dynasty after Kanem rule. Ottomans finally conquered Fezzan between 1556 and 1577.\n\nAfter a successful invasion of Tripoli by Habsburg Spain in 1510, and its handover to the Knights of St. John, the Ottoman admiral Sinan Pasha took control of Libya in 1551. His successor Turgut Reis was named the Bey of Tripoli and later Pasha of Tripoli in 1556. By 1565, administrative authority as regent in Tripoli was vested in a \"pasha\" appointed directly by the \"sultan\" in Constantinople/Istanbul. In the 1580s, the rulers of Fezzan gave their allegiance to the sultan, and although Ottoman authority was absent in Cyrenaica, a \"bey\" was stationed in Benghazi late in the next century to act as agent of the government in Tripoli. European slaves and large numbers of enslaved Blacks transported from Sudan were also a feature of everyday life in Tripoli. In 1551, Turgut Reis enslaved almost the entire population of the Maltese island of Gozo, some 6,300 people, sending them to Libya.\n\nIn time, real power came to rest with the pasha’s corps of janissaries. In 1611 the \"deys\" staged a coup against the pasha, and Dey Sulayman Safar was appointed as head of government. For the next hundred years, a series of \"deys\" effectively ruled Tripolitania. The two most important Deys were Mehmed Saqizli (r. 1631–49) and Osman Saqizli (r. 1649–72), both also Pasha, who ruled effectively the region. The latter conquered also Cyrenaica.\nLacking direction from the Ottoman government, Tripoli lapsed into a period of military anarchy during which coup followed coup and few deys survived in office more than a year. One such coup was led by Turkish officer Ahmed Karamanli. The Karamanlis ruled from 1711 until 1835 mainly in Tripolitania, and had influence in Cyrenaica and Fezzan as well by the mid-18th century. Ahmad's successors proved to be less capable than himself, however, the region's delicate balance of power allowed the Karamanli. The 1793–95 Tripolitanian civil war occurred in those years. In 1793, Turkish officer Ali Benghul deposed Hamet Karamanli and briefly restored Tripolitania to Ottoman rule. Hamet's brother Yusuf (r. 1795–1832) re-established Tripolitania's independence.\nIn the early 19th century war broke out between the United States and Tripolitania, and a series of battles ensued in what came to be known as the First Barbary War and the Second Barbary War. By 1819, the various treaties of the Napoleonic Wars had forced the Barbary states to give up piracy almost entirely, and Tripolitania's economy began to crumble. As Yusuf weakened, factions sprung up around his three sons. Civil war soon resulted.\n\nOttoman Sultan Mahmud II sent in troops ostensibly to restore order, marking the end of both the Karamanli dynasty and an independent Tripolitania. Order was not recovered easily, and the revolt of the Libyan under Abd-El-Gelil and Gûma ben Khalifa lasted until the death of the latter in 1858. The second period of direct Ottoman rule saw administrative changes, and greater order in the governance of the three provinces of Libya. Ottoman rule finally reasserted to Fezzan between 1850 and 1875 for earning income from Saharan commerce.\n\nAfter the Italo-Turkish War (1911–1912), Italy simultaneously turned the three regions into colonies. From 1912 to 1927, the territory of Libya was known as Italian North Africa. From 1927 to 1934, the territory was split into two colonies, Italian Cyrenaica and Italian Tripolitania, run by Italian governors. Some 150,000 Italians settled in Libya, constituting roughly 20% of the total population.\n\nIn 1934, Italy adopted the name \"Libya\" (used by the Ancient Greeks for all of North Africa, except Egypt) as the official name of the colony (made up of the three provinces of Cyrenaica, Tripolitania and Fezzan). Omar Mukhtar was the resistance leader against the Italian colonization and became a national hero despite his capture and execution on 16 September 1931. His face is currently printed on the Libyan ten dinar note in memory and recognition of his patriotism.\nIdris al-Mahdi as-Senussi (later King Idris I), Emir of Cyrenaica, led the Libyan resistance to Italian occupation between the two world wars. Ilan Pappé estimates that between 1928 and 1932 the Italian military \"killed half the Bedouin population (directly or through disease and starvation in camps).\" Italian historian Emilio Gentile estimates 50,000 deaths resulting from the suppression of resistance.\n\nIn June 1940, Italy entered World War II. Libya became the setting for the hard-fought North African Campaign that ultimately ended in defeat for Italy and its German ally in 1943.\n\nFrom 1943 to 1951, Libya was under Allied occupation. The British military administered the two former Italian Libyan provinces of Tripolitana and Cyrenaïca, while the French administered the province of Fezzan. In 1944, Idris returned from exile in Cairo but declined to resume permanent residence in Cyrenaica until the removal of some aspects of foreign control in 1947. Under the terms of the 1947 peace treaty with the Allies, Italy relinquished all claims to Libya.\n\nOn 24 December 1951, Libya declared its independence as the United Kingdom of Libya, a constitutional and hereditary monarchy under King Idris, Libya's only monarch. The discovery of significant oil reserves in 1959 and the subsequent income from petroleum sales enabled one of the world's poorest nations to establish an extremely wealthy state. Although oil drastically improved the Libyan government's finances, resentment among some factions began to build over the increased concentration of the nation's wealth in the hands of King Idris.\n\nOn 1 September 1969, a group of rebel military officers led by Muammar Gaddafi launched a coup d'état against King Idris, which became known as the Al Fateh Revolution. Gaddafi was referred to as the \"Brother Leader and Guide of the Revolution\" in government statements and the official Libyan press. Moving to reduce Italian influence, in October 1970 all Italian-owned assets were expropriated and the 12,000-strong Italian community was expelled from Libya alongside the smaller community of Libyan Jews. The day became a national holiday known as \"Vengeance Day\". Libya's increase in prosperity was accompanied by increased internal political repression, and political dissent was made illegal under Law 75 of 1973. Widespread surveillance of the population was carried out through Gaddafi's Revolutionary Committees.\n\nGaddafi also wanted to combat the strict social restrictions that had been imposed on women by the previous regime, establishing the Revolutionary Women's Formation to encourage reform. In 1970, a law was introduced affirming equality of the sexes and insisting on wage parity. In 1971, Gaddafi sponsored the creation of a Libyan General Women's Federation. In 1972, a law was passed criminalizing the marriage of any females under the age of sixteen and ensuring that a woman's consent was a necessary prerequisite for a marriage.\n\nOn 25 October 1975, a coup attempt was launched by some 20 military officers, mostly from the city of Misrata. This resulted in the arrest and executions of the coup plotters. On 2 March 1977, Libya officially became the \"Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya\". Gaddafi officially passed power to the General People's Committees and henceforth claimed to be no more than a symbolic figurehead. The new \"jamahiriya\" governance structure he established was officially referred to as \"direct democracy\".\n\nIn February 1977, Libya started delivering military supplies to Goukouni Oueddei and the People's Armed Forces in Chad. The Chadian–Libyan conflict began in earnest when Libya's support of rebel forces in northern Chad escalated into an invasion. Later that same year, Libya and Egypt fought a four-day border war that came to be known as the Libyan-Egyptian War, both nations agreed to a ceasefire under the mediation of the Algerian president Houari Boumediène. Hundreds of Libyans lost their lives in the war against Tanzania. Gaddafi financed various other groups from anti-nuclear movements to Australian trade unions.\n\nFrom 1977 onward, per capita income in the country rose to more than US $11,000, the fifth-highest in Africa, while the Human Development Index became the highest in Africa and greater than that of Saudi Arabia. This was achieved without borrowing any foreign loans, keeping Libya debt-free. The Great Manmade River was also built to allow free access to fresh water across large parts of the country. In addition, financial support was provided for university scholarships and employment programs.\n\nMuch of Libya's income from oil, which soared in the 1970s, was spent on arms purchases and on sponsoring dozens of paramilitaries and terrorist groups around the world. An American airstrike intended to kill Gaddafi failed in 1986. Libya was finally put under sanctions by the United Nations after the bombing of a commercial flight killed 270 people.\n\nAfter the Arab Spring movements overturned the rulers of Tunisia and Egypt, Libya experienced a full-scale revolt beginning on 17 February 2011. Libya's authoritarian regime led by Muammar Gaddafi put up much more of a resistance compared to the regimes in Egypt and Tunisia. While overthrowing the regimes in Egypt and Tunisia was a relatively quick process, Gaddafi's campaign posed significant stalls on the uprisings in Libya. The first announcement of a competing political authority appeared online and declared the Interim Transitional National Council as an alternative government. One of Gaddafi's senior advisors responded by posting a tweet, wherein he resigned, defected, and advised Gaddafi to flee. By 20 February, the unrest had spread to Tripoli. On 27 February 2011, the National Transitional Council was established to administer the areas of Libya under rebel control. On 10 March 2011, France became the first state to officially recognise the council as the legitimate representative of the Libyan people.\n\nPro-Gaddaffi forces were able to respond militarily to rebel pushes in Western Libya and launched a counterattack along the coast toward Benghazi, the \"de facto\" centre of the uprising. The town of Zawiya, from Tripoli, was bombarded by air force planes and army tanks and seized by Jamahiriya troops, \"exercising a level of brutality not yet seen in the conflict.\"\nOrganizations of the United Nations, including United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and the United Nations Human Rights Council, condemned the crackdown as violating international law, with the latter body expelling Libya outright in an unprecedented action urged by Libya's own delegation to the UN.\n\nOn 17 March 2011 the UN Security Council passed Resolution 1973, with a 10–0 vote and five abstentions including Russia, China, India, Brazil and Germany. The resolution sanctioned the establishment of a no-fly zone and the use of \"all means necessary\" to protect civilians within Libya. On 19 March, the first act of NATO allies to secure the no-fly zone began by destroying Libyan air defenses when French military jets entered Libyan airspace on a reconnaissance mission heralding attacks on enemy targets.\n\nIn the weeks that followed, American forces were in the forefront of NATO operations against Libya. More than 8,000 American personnel in warships and aircraft were deployed in the area. At least 3,000 targets were struck in 14,202 strike sorties, 716 of them in Tripoli and 492 in Brega. The American air offensive included flights of B-2 Stealth bombers, each bomber armed with sixteen 2000-pound bombs, flying out of and returning to their base in Missouri in the continental United States. The support provided by the NATO air forces contributed to the ultimate success of the revolution.\n\nBy 22 August 2011, rebel fighters had entered Tripoli and occupied Green Square, which they renamed Martyrs' Square in honour of those killed since 17 February 2011. On 20 October 2011 the last heavy fighting of the uprising came to an end in the city of Sirte, where Gaddafi was captured and killed. The defeat of loyalist forces was celebrated on 23 October 2011, three days after the fall of Sirte.\n\nAt least 30,000 Libyans died in the civil war. In addition, the National Transitional Council estimated 50,000 wounded.\n\nSince the defeat of loyalist forces, Libya has been torn among numerous rival, armed militias affiliated with distinct regions, cities and tribes, while the central government has been weak and unable effectively to exert its authority over the country. Competing militias have pitted themselves against each other in a political struggle between Islamist politicians and their opponents. On 7 July 2012, Libyans held their first parliamentary elections since the end of the former regime. On 8 August 2012, the National Transitional Council officially handed power over to the wholly elected General National Congress, which was then tasked with the formation of an interim government and the drafting of a new Libyan Constitution to be approved in a general referendum.\n\nOn 25 August 2012, in what Reuters reported as \"the most blatant sectarian attack\" since the end of the civil war, unnamed organized assailants bulldozed a Sufi mosque with graves, in broad daylight in the center of the Libyan capital Tripoli. It was the second such razing of a Sufi site in two days. Numerous acts of vandalism and destruction of heritage were carried out by suspected Islamist militias, including the removal of the Nude Gazelle Statue and the destruction and desecration of World War II-era British grave sites near Benghazi. Many other cases of Heritage vandalism were carried out and were reported to be carried out by Islamist related radical militias and mobs that either destroyed, robbed, or looted a number of Historic sites which remain in danger at present.\n\nOn 11 September 2012, Islamist militants mounted a surprise attack on the American consulate in Benghazi, killing the U.S. ambassador to Libya, J. Christopher Stevens, and three others. The incident generated outrage in the United States and Libya.\n\nOn 7 October 2012, Libya's Prime Minister-elect Mustafa A.G. Abushagur was ousted after failing a second time to win parliamentary approval for a new cabinet. On 14 October 2012, the General National Congress elected former GNC member and human rights lawyer Ali Zeidan as prime minister-designate. Zeidan was sworn in after his cabinet was approved by the GNC. On 11 March 2014, after having been ousted by the GNC for his inability to halt a rogue oil shipment, Prime Minister Zeiden stepped down, and was replaced by Prime Minister Abdullah al-Thani. On 25 March 2014, in the face of mounting instability, al-Thani's government briefly explored the possibility of the restoration of the Libyan monarchy.\nIn June 2014, elections were held to the Council of Deputies, a new legislative body intended to take over from the General National Congress. The elections were marred by violence and low turnout, with voting stations closed in some areas. Secularists and liberals did well in the elections, to the consternation of Islamist lawmakers in the GNC, who reconvened and declared a continuing mandate for the GNC, refusing to recognise the new Council of Deputies. Armed supporters of the General National Congress occupied Tripoli, forcing the newly elected parliament to flee to Tobruk.\n\nLibya has been riven by conflict between the rival parliaments since mid-2014. Tribal militias and jihadist groups have taken advantage of the power vacuum. Most notably, radical Islamist fighters seized Derna in 2014 and Sirte in 2015 in the name of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. In early 2015, neighbouring Egypt launched airstrikes against ISIL in support of the Tobruk government.\nIn January 2015, meetings were held with the aim to find a peaceful agreement between the rival parties in Libya. The so-called Geneva-Ghadames talks were supposed to bring the GNC and the Tobruk government together at one table to find a solution of the internal conflict. However, the GNC actually never participated, a sign that internal division not only affected the \"Tobruk Camp\", but also the \"Tripoli Camp\". Meanwhile, terrorism within Libya has steadily increased, affecting also neighbouring countries. The terrorist attack against the Bardo Museum on 18 March 2015, was reportedly carried on by two Libyan-trained militants.\n\nDuring 2015 an extended series of diplomatic meetings and peace negotiations were supported by the United Nations, as conducted by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General (SRSG), Spanish diplomat Bernardino Leon. UN support for the SRSG-led process of dialogue carried on in addition to the usual work of the United Nations Support Mission in Libya (UNSMIL).\n\nIn July 2015 SRSG Leon reported to the UN Security Council on the progress of the negotiations, which at that point had just achieved a political agreement on 11 July setting out \"a comprehensive framework…includ[ing] guiding principles…institutions and decision-making mechanisms to guide the transition until the adoption of a permanent constitution.\" The stated purpose of that process was \"…intended to culminate in the creation of a modern, democratic state based on the principle of inclusion, the rule of law, separation of powers and respect for human rights.\" The SRSG praised the participants for achieving agreement, stating that \"The Libyan people have unequivocally expressed themselves in favour of peace.\" The SRSG then informed the Security Council that \"Libya is at a critical stage\" and urging \"all parties in Libya to continue to engage constructively in the dialogue process\", stating that \"only through dialogue and political compromise, can a peaceful resolution of the conflict be achieved. A peaceful transition will only succeed in Libya through a significant and coordinated effort in supporting a future Government of National Accord…\".\nTalks, negotiations and dialogue continued on during mid-2015 at various international locations, culminating at Skhirat in Morocco in early September.\n\nAlso in 2015, as part of the ongoing support from the international community, the UN Human Rights Council requested a report about the Libyan situation and the High Commissioner for Human Rights, Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein, established an investigative body (OIOL) to report on human rights and rebuilding the Libyan justice system.\n\nChaos-ridden Libya has emerged as a major transit point for people trying to reach Europe. More than 700,000 migrants have reached Italy by boat since 2013.\n\nIn May 2018 Libya's rival leaders agreed to hold parliamentary and presidential elections following a meeting in Paris.\n\nLibya extends over , making it the 16th largest nation in the world by size. Libya is bound to the north by the Mediterranean Sea, the west by Tunisia and Algeria, the southwest by Niger, the south by Chad, the southeast by Sudan, and the east by Egypt. Libya lies between latitudes 19° and 34°N, and longitudes 9° and 26°E.\n\nAt , Libya's coastline is the longest of any African country bordering the Mediterranean. The portion of the Mediterranean Sea north of Libya is often called the Libyan Sea. The climate is mostly extremely dry and desertlike in nature. However, the northern regions enjoy a milder Mediterranean climate.\n\nNatural hazards come in the form of hot, dry, dust-laden sirocco (known in Libya as the \"gibli\"). This is a southern wind blowing from one to four days in spring and autumn. There are also dust storms and sandstorms. Oases can also be found scattered throughout Libya, the most important of which are Ghadames and Kufra. Libya is one of the sunniest and driest countries in the world due to prevailing presence of desert environment.\n\nThe Libyan Desert, which covers much of Libya, is one of the most arid and sun-baked places on earth. In places, decades may pass without seeing any rainfall at all, and even in the highlands rainfall seldom happens, once every 5–10 years. At Uweinat, the last recorded rainfall was in September 1998.\n\nLikewise, the temperature in the Libyan Desert can be extreme; on 13 September 1922, the town of 'Aziziya, which is located southwest of Tripoli, recorded an air temperature of , considered to be a world record. In September 2012, however, the world record figure of 58 °C was overturned by the World Meteorological Organization.\n\nThere are a few scattered uninhabited small oases, usually linked to the major depressions, where water can be found by digging to a few feet in depth. In the west there is a widely dispersed group of oases in unconnected shallow depressions, the Kufra group, consisting of Tazerbo, Rebianae and Kufra. Aside from the scarps, the general flatness is only interrupted by a series of plateaus and massifs near the centre of the Libyan Desert, around the convergence of the Egyptian-Sudanese-Libyan borders.\n\nSlightly further to the south are the massifs of Arkenu, Uweinat, and Kissu. These granite mountains are ancient, having formed long before the sandstones surrounding them. Arkenu and Western Uweinat are ring complexes very similar to those in the Aïr Mountains. Eastern Uweinat (the highest point in the Libyan Desert) is a raised sandstone plateau adjacent to the granite part further west.\n\nThe plain to the north of Uweinat is dotted with eroded volcanic features. With the discovery of oil in the 1950s also came the discovery of a massive aquifer underneath much of Libya. The water in this aquifer pre-dates the last ice ages and the Sahara Desert itself. This area also contains the Arkenu structures, which were once thought to be two impact craters.\n\nThe legislature of Libya is the unicameral Council of Deputies which meets in Tobruk.\n\nThe former legislature was the General National Congress, which had 200 seats. The General National Congress (2014), a largely unrecognised rival parliament based in the \"de jure\" capital of Tripoli, claims to be a legal continuation of the GNC.\n\nOn 7 July 2012, Libyans voted in parliamentary elections, the first free elections in almost 40 years. Around thirty women were elected to become members of parliament. Early results of the vote showed the National Forces Alliance, led by former interim Prime Minister Mahmoud Jibril, as front runner. The Justice and Construction Party, affiliated to the Muslim Brotherhood, has done less well than similar parties in Egypt and Tunisia. It won 17 out of 80 seats that were contested by parties, but about 60 independents have since joined its caucus.\n\nAs of January 2013, there was mounting public pressure on the National Congress to set up a drafting body to create a new constitution. Congress had not yet decided whether the members of the body would be elected or appointed.\nOn 30 March 2014 General National Congress voted to replace itself with new Council of Deputies. The new legislature allocates 30 seats for women, will have 200 seats overall (with individuals able to run as members of political parties) and allows Libyans of foreign nationalities to run for office.\n\nFollowing the 2012 elections, Freedom House improved Libya's rating from Not Free to Partly Free, and now considers the country to be an electoral democracy.\n\nGaddafi merged civil and sharia courts in 1973. Civil courts now employ sharia judges who sit in regular courts of appeal and specialise in sharia appellate cases. Laws regarding personal status are derived from Islamic law.\n\nAt a meeting of the European Parliament Committee on Foreign Affairs on 2 December 2014, UN Special Representative Bernardino León described Libya as a non-state.\n\nAn agreement to form a unified interim government was signed on 17 December 2015. Under the terms of the agreement, a nine-member Presidency Council and a seventeen-member interim Government of National Accord would be formed, with a view to holding new elections within two years. The House of Representatives would continue to exist as a legislature and an advisory body, to be known as the State Council, will be formed with members nominated by the General National Congress (2014).\n\nLibya's foreign policies have fluctuated since 1951. As a Kingdom, Libya maintained a definitively pro-Western stance, and was recognized as belonging to the conservative traditionalist bloc in the League of Arab States (the present-day Arab League), of which it became a member in 1953. The government was also friendly towards Western countries such as the United Kingdom, United States, France, Italy, Greece, and established full diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union in 1955.\n\nAlthough the government supported Arab causes, including the Moroccan and Algerian independence movements, it took little active part in the Arab-Israeli dispute or the tumultuous inter-Arab politics of the 1950s and early 1960s. The Kingdom was noted for its close association with the West, while it steered a conservative course at home.\nAfter the 1969 coup, Muammar Gaddafi closed American and British bases and partly nationalized foreign oil and commercial interests in Libya.\n\nGaddafi was known for backing a number of leaders viewed as anathema to Westernization and political liberalism, including Ugandan President Idi Amin, Central African Emperor Jean-Bédel Bokassa, Ethiopian strongman Haile Mariam Mengistu, Liberian President Charles Taylor, and Yugoslav President Slobodan Milošević.\n\nRelations with the West were strained by a series of incidents for most of Gaddafi's rule, including the killing of London policewoman Yvonne Fletcher, the bombing of a West Berlin nightclub frequented by U.S. servicemen, and the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103, which led to UN sanctions in the 1990s, though by the late 2000s, the United States and other Western powers had normalised relations with Libya.\n\nGaddafi's decision to abandon the pursuit of weapons of mass destruction after the Iraq War saw Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein overthrown and put on trial led to Libya being hailed as a success for Western soft power initiatives in the War on Terror. In October 2010, Gaddafi apologized to African leaders on behalf of Arab nations for their involvement in the African slave trade.\n\nLibya is included in the European Union's European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) which aims at bringing the EU and its neighbours closer. Libyan authorities rejected European Union's plans aimed at stopping migration from Libya.\n\nLibya's previous national army was defeated in the Libyan Civil War and disbanded. The Tobruk based Libyan House of Representatives who claim to be the legitimate government of Libya have attempted to reestablish a military known as the Libyan National Army. Led by Khalifa Haftar, they control much of eastern Libya. In May 2012, an estimated 35,000 personnel had joined its ranks.\n\nAs of November 2012, it was deemed to be still in the embryonic stage of development. President Mohammed el-Megarif promised that empowering the army and police force is the government's biggest priority. President el-Megarif also ordered that all of the country's militias must come under government authority or disband.\n\nMilitias have so far refused to be integrated into a central security force. Many of these militias are disciplined, but the most powerful of them answer only to the executive councils of various Libyan cities. These militias make up the so-called Libyan Shield, a parallel national force, which operates at the request, rather than at the order, of the defence ministry.\n\nHistorically, the area of Libya was considered three provinces (or states), Tripolitania in the northwest, Barka (Cyrenaica) in the east, and Fezzan in the southwest. It was the conquest by Italy in the Italo-Turkish War that united them in a single political unit.\n\nSince 2007, Libya has been divided into 22 districts (baladiyat):\n\nHomosexuality is illegal in Libya. According to Human Rights Watch annual report 2016, journalists are still being targeted by the armed groups in Libya. The organization added that Libya has very low rank in the 2015 press freedom index as it occupied 154 out of 180 countries.\n\nThe Libyan economy depends primarily upon revenues from the oil sector, which account for over half of GDP and 97% of exports. Libya holds the largest proven oil reserves in Africa and is an important contributor to the global supply of light, sweet crude. During 2010, when oil averaged at $80 a barrel, oil production accounted for 54% of GDP. Apart from petroleum, the other natural resources are natural gas and gypsum. The International Monetary Fund estimated Libya's real GDP growth at 122% in 2012 and 16.7% in 2013, after a 60% plunge in 2011.\n\nThe World Bank defines Libya as an 'Upper Middle Income Economy', along with only seven other African countries. Substantial revenues from the energy sector, coupled with a small population, give Libya one of the highest per capita GDPs in Africa. This allowed the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya state to provide an extensive level of social security, particularly in the fields of housing and education.\n\nLibya faces many structural problems including a lack of institutions, weak governance, and chronic structural unemployment. The economy displays a lack of economic diversification and significant reliance on immigrant labour. Libya has traditionally relied on unsustainably high levels of public sector hiring to create employment. In the mid-2000s, the government employed about 70% of all national employees.\n\nUnemployment has risen from 8% in 2008 to 21%, according to the latest census figures. According to an Arab League report, based on data from 2010, unemployment for women stands at 18% while for the figure for men is 21%, making Libya the only Arab country where there are more unemployed men than women. Libya has high levels of social inequality, high rates of youth unemployment and regional economic disparities. Water supply is also a problem, with some 28% of the population not having access to safe drinking water in 2000.\nLibya imports up to 90% of its cereal consumption requirements, and imports of wheat in 2012/13 was estimated at about 1 million tonnes. The 2012 wheat production was estimated at about 200,000 tonnes. The government hopes to increase food production to 800,000 tonnes of cereals by 2020. However, natural and environmental conditions limit Libya’s agricultural production potential. Before 1958, agriculture was the country’s main source of revenue, making up about 30% of GDP. With the discovery of oil in 1958, the size of the agriculture sector declined rapidly, comprising less than 5% GDP by 2005.\n\nThe country joined OPEC in 1962. Libya is not a WTO member, but negotiations for its accession started in 2004.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Libya was one of the wealthiest countries in the world; its GDP per capita was higher than some developed countries.\nIn the early 2000s officials of the Jamahiriya era carried out economic reforms to reintegrate Libya into the global economy. UN sanctions were lifted in September 2003, and Libya announced in December 2003 that it would abandon programs to build weapons of mass destruction. Other steps have included applying for membership of the World Trade Organization, reducing subsidies, and announcing plans for privatization.\n\nAuthorities privatized more than 100 government owned companies after 2003 in industries including oil refining, tourism and real estate, of which 29 were 100% foreign owned. Many international oil companies returned to the country, including oil giants Shell and ExxonMobil. After sanctions were lifted there was a gradual increase of air traffic, and by 2005 there were 1.5 million yearly air travellers. Libya had long been a notoriously difficult country for Western tourists to visit due to stringent visa requirements.\n\nIn 2007 Saif al-Islam Gaddafi, the second-eldest son of Muammar Gaddafi, was involved in a green development project called the Green Mountain Sustainable Development Area, which sought to bring tourism to Cyrene and to preserve Greek ruins in the area.\n\nIn August 2011 it was estimated that it would take at least 10 years to rebuild Libya's infrastructure. Even before the 2011 war, Libya's infrastructure was in a poor state due to \"utter neglect\" by Gaddafi's administration, according to the NTC. By October 2012, the economy had recovered from the 2011 conflict, with oil production returning to near normal levels. Oil production was more than 1.6 million barrels per day before the war. By October 2012, the average oil production has surpassed 1.4 million bpd. The resumption of production was made possible due to the quick return of major Western companies, like Total, Eni, Repsol, Wintershall and Occidental. In 2016, an announcement from the company said the company aims 900,000 barrel per day in the next year. Oil production has fallen from 1.6 million barrel per day to 900,000 in four years of war.\n\nLibya is a large country with a relatively small population, and the population is concentrated very narrowly along the coast. Population density is about 50 persons per km² (130/sq. mi.) in the two northern regions of Tripolitania and Cyrenaica, but falls to less than one person per km² (2.6/sq. mi.) elsewhere. Ninety percent of the people live in less than 10% of the area, primarily along the coast. About 88% of the population is urban, mostly concentrated in the three largest cities, Tripoli, Benghazi and Misrata. Libya has a population of about /1e6 round 1 million, 27.7% of whom are under the age of 15. In 1984 the population was 3.6 million, an increase from the 1.54 million reported in 1964.\n\nThe majority of the Libyan population is today identified as Arab, that is, Arabic-speaking and Arab-cultured. However, according to DNA studies, 90% of that Arab Libyan population consists in fact of Arabized Berbers, while Berber Libyans, those who retain Berber language and Berber culture, comprise a minority. There are about 140 tribes and clans in Libya.\n\nFamily life is important for Libyan families, the majority of which live in apartment blocks and other independent housing units, with precise modes of housing depending on their income and wealth. Although the Arab Libyans traditionally lived nomadic lifestyles in tents, they have now settled in various towns and cities. Because of this, their old ways of life are gradually fading out. An unknown small number of Libyans still live in the desert as their families have done for centuries. Most of the population has occupations in industry and services, and a small percentage is in agriculture.\n\nAccording to the UNHCR, there were around 8,000 registered refugees, 5,500 unregistered refugees, and 7,000 asylum seekers of various origins in Libya in January 2013. Additionally, 47,000 Libyan nationals were internally displaced and 46,570 were internally displaced returnees.\n\nThe original inhabitants of Libya belonged predominantly to various Berber ethnic groups; however, the long series of foreign invasions – particularly by Arabs and Turks – have had a profound and lasting linguistic, cultural, and identity influence on Libya's demographics.\n\nToday, the great majority of Libya’s inhabitants are Arabic-speaking Muslims of mixed descent, with many also tracing their ancestry to the Banu Sulaym tribe, beside Turkish and purely Berber ethnicities. The Turkish minority are often called \"Kouloughlis\" and are concentrated in and around villages and towns. Additionally, there are some Libyan ethnic minorities, such as the purely Berber Tuareg and the Tebou.\n\nMost Italian settlers, at their height numbering over half a million, left after Italian Libya's independence in 1947. More repatriated in 1970 after the accession of Muammar Gaddafi.\n\n, the UN estimates that around 12% of Libya's population (upwards of 740,000 people) was made up of foreign migrants. Prior to the 2011 revolution official and unofficial figures of migrant labour range from 25% to 40% of the population (between 1.5 and 2.4 million people). Historically, Libya has been a host state for millions of low- and high-skilled Egyptian migrants, in particular.\n\nIt is difficult to estimate the total number of immigrants in Libya as there are often differences between census figures, official counts and usually more accurate unofficial estimates. In the 2006 census, around 359,540 foreign nationals were resident in Libya out of a population of over 5.5 million (6.35% of the population). Almost half of these were Egyptians, followed by Sudanese and Palestinian immigrants.\nDuring the 2011 revolution, 768,362 immigrants fled Libya as calculated by the IOM, around 13% of the population at the time, although many more stayed on in the country.\n\nIf consular records prior to the revolution are used to estimate the immigrant population, as many as 2 million Egyptian migrants were recorded by the Egyptian embassy in Tripoli in 2009, followed by 87,200 Tunisians, and 68,200 Moroccans by their respective embassies. The number of Asian migrants before the revolution were roughly 100,000 (60,000 Bangladeshis, 18,000 Indians, 10,000 Pakistanis, 8000 Filipinos as well as Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese, Thai and other workers). This would put the immigrant population at almost 40% before the revolution and is a figure more consistent with government estimates in 2004 which put the regular and irregular migrant numbers at 1.35 to 1.8 million (25–33% of the population at the time).\n\nLibya's native population of Arabs-Berbers as well as Arab migrants of various nationalities collectively make up 97% of the population . The remaining 3% of residents include mostly Bangladeshies, Greeks, Indians, Italians, Maltese, Turks, and Ukrainians as well as other nationalities.\n\nAccording to the CIA, the official language of Libya is Arabic. The local Libyan Arabic variety is spoken alongside Modern Standard Arabic. Various Berber languages are also spoken, including Tamasheq, Ghadamis, Nafusi, Suknah and Awjilah. The Libyan Amazigh High Council (LAHC) has declared the Amazigh (Berber or Tamazight) language as an official language in the cities and districts inhabited by the Berbers in Libya.\nIn addition, Italian and English are widely understood in the major cities, with the former used in commerce and still spoken among the remaining Italian population.\n\nAbout 97% of the population in Libya are Muslims, most of whom belong to the Sunni branch. Small numbers of Ibadi Muslims and Ahmadis also live in the country.\n\nBefore the 1930s, the Senussi Sunni Sufi movement was the primary Islamic movement in Libya. This was a religious revival adapted to desert life. Its \"zawaaya\" (lodges) were found in Tripolitania and Fezzan, but Senussi influence was strongest in Cyrenaica. Rescuing the region from unrest and anarchy, the Senussi movement gave the Cyrenaican tribal people a religious attachment and feelings of unity and purpose. This Islamic movement, which was eventually destroyed by both Italian invasion and later the Gaddafi government, was very conservative and somewhat different from the Islam that exists in Libya today. Gaddafi asserted that he was a devout Muslim, and his government was taking a role in supporting Islamic institutions and in worldwide proselytising on behalf of Islam.\n\nSince the fall of Gaddafi, ultra-conservative strains of Islam have reasserted themselves in places. Derna in eastern Libya, historically a hotbed of jihadist thought, came under the control of militants aligned with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant in 2014. Jihadist elements have also spread to Sirte and Benghazi, among other areas, as a result of the Second Libyan Civil War.\n\nThere are small foreign communities of Christians. Coptic Orthodox Christianity, which is the Christian Church of Egypt, is the largest and most historical Christian denomination in Libya. There are about 60,000 Egyptian Copts in Libya. Copts in Libya are Egyptian. There are three Coptic Churches in Libya, one in Tripoli, one in Benghazi, and one in Misurata.\n\nThe Coptic Church has grown in recent years in Libya, due to the growing immigration of Egyptian Copts to Libya. As all followers of Christianity in Libya are foreigners who came to the country under work permits. There are an estimated 40,000 Roman Catholics in Libya who are served by two Bishops, one in Tripoli (serving the Italian community) and one in Benghazi (serving the Maltese community). There is also a small Anglican community, made up mostly of African immigrant workers in Tripoli; it is part of the Anglican Diocese of Egypt. People have been arrested on suspicion of being Christian missionaries, as proselytising is illegal. Christians have also faced the threat of violence from radical Islamists in some parts of the country, with a well-publicised video released by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant in February 2015 depicting the mass beheading of Christian Copts.\n\nLibya was once the home of one of the oldest Jewish communities in the world, dating back to at least 300 BC. In 1942, the Italian Fascist authorities set up forced labor camps south of Tripoli for the Jews, including Giado (about 3,000 Jews), Gharyan, Jeren, and Tigrinna. In Giado some 500 Jews died of weakness, hunger, and disease. In 1942, Jews who were not in the concentration camps were heavily restricted in their economic activity and all men between 18 and 45 years were drafted for forced labor. In August 1942, Jews from Tripolitania were interned in a concentration camp at Sidi Azaz. In the three years after November 1945, more than 140 Jews were murdered, and hundreds more wounded, in a series of pogroms. By 1948, about 38,000 Jews remained in the country. Upon Libya's independence in 1951, most of the Jewish community emigrated.\n\nMany Arabic speaking Libyans consider themselves as part of a wider Arab community. This was strengthened by the spread of Pan-Arabism in the mid-20th century, and their reach to power in Libya where they instituted Arabic as the only official language of the state. Under their dictatorship the teaching and even use of indigenous Tamazight language was strictly forbidden. In addition to banning foreign languages previously taught in academic institutions, leaving entire generations of Libyans with limitations in their comprehension of the English language. Both the spoken Arabic dialects and Tamazight, still retain words from Italian, that were acquired before and during the \"Libia Italiana\" period.\n\nLibyans have a heritage in the traditions of the previously nomadic Bedouin Arabic speakers and sedentary Amazigh tribes. Most Libyans associate themselves with a particular family name originating from tribal or conquest based, typically from Ottoman forefathers, heritage..\n\nReflecting the \"nature of giving\" ( \"\", Tamazight: ⴰⵏⴰⴽⴽⴰⴼ Anakkaf ), amongst the Libyan people as well as the sense of hospitality, recently the state of Libya made it to the top 20 on the world giving index in 2013. According to CAF, in a typical month, almost three quarters (72%) of all Libyans helped somebody they did not know – the third highest level across all 135 countries surveyed.\n\nThere are few theaters or art galleries due to the decades of cultural repression under the Qaddafi regime and lack of infrastructure development under the regime of dictatorship. For many years there have been no public theaters, and only very few cinemas showing foreign films. The tradition of folk culture is still alive and well, with troupes performing music and dance at frequent festivals, both in Libya and abroad.\n\nA large number of Libyan television stations are devoted to political review, Islamic topics and cultural phenomena. A number of TV stations air various styles of traditional Libyan music. Tuareg music and dance are popular in Ghadames and the south. Libyan television broadcasts air programs mostly in Arabic though usually have time slots for English and French programs. A 1996 analysis by the Committee to Protect Journalists found Libya’s media was the most tightly controlled in the Arab world during the country's dictatorship. hundreds of TV stations have begun to air due to the collapse of censorship from the old regime and the initiation of \"free media\".\nMany Libyans frequent the country's beach and they also visit Libya's archaeological sites—especially Leptis Magna, which is widely considered to be one of the best preserved Roman archaeological sites in the world. The most common form of public transport between cities is the bus, though many people travel by automobile. There are no railway services in Libya, but these are planned for construction in the near future (see rail transport in Libya).\n\nLibya's capital, Tripoli, has many museums and archives. These include the Government Library, the Ethnographic Museum, the Archaeological Museum, the National Archives, the Epigraphy Museum and the Islamic Museum. The Red Castle Museum located in the capital near the coast and right in the city center, built in consultation with UNESCO, may be the country's most famous.\n\nLibyan cuisine is a mixture of the different Italian, Bedouin and traditional Arab culinary influences. Pasta is the staple food in the Western side of Libya, whereas rice is generally the staple food in the east.\n\nCommon Libyan foods include several variations of red (tomato) sauce based pasta dishes (similar to the Italian Sugo all'arrabbiata dish); rice, usually served with lamb or chicken (typically stewed, fried, grilled, or boiled in-sauce); and couscous, which is steam cooked whilst held over boiling red (tomato) sauce and meat (sometimes also containing courgettes/zucchini and chickpeas), which is typically served along with cucumber slices, lettuce and olives.\n\nBazeen, a dish made from barley flour and served with red tomato sauce, is customarily eaten communally, with several people sharing the same dish, usually by hand. This dish is commonly served at traditional weddings or festivities. Asida is a sweet version of Bazeen, made from white flour and served with a mix of honey, ghee or butter. Another favorite way to serve Asida is with rub (fresh date syrup) and olive oil. Usban is animal tripe stitched and stuffed with rice and vegetables cooked in tomato based soup or steamed. Shurba is a red tomato sauce-based soup, usually served with small grains of pasta.\n\nA very common snack eaten by Libyans is known as \"khubs bi' tun\", literally meaning \"bread with tuna fish\", usually served as a baked baguette or pita bread stuffed with tuna fish that has been mixed with harissa (chili sauce) and olive oil. Many snack vendors prepare these sandwiches and they can be found all over Libya. Libyan restaurants may serve international cuisine, or may serve simpler fare such as lamb, chicken, vegetable stew, potatoes and macaroni. Due to severe lack of infrastructure, many under-developed areas and small towns do not have restaurants and instead food stores may be the only source to obtain food products. Alcohol consumption is illegal in the entire country.\n\nThere are four main ingredients of traditional Libyan food: olives (and olive oil), dates, grains and milk. Grains are roasted, ground, sieved and used for making bread, cakes, soups and bazeen. Dates are harvested, dried and can be eaten as they are, made into syrup or slightly fried and eaten with bsisa and milk. After eating, Libyans often drink black tea. This is normally repeated a second time (for the second glass of tea), and in the third round of tea, it is served with roasted peanuts or roasted almonds known as \"shay bi'l-luz\" (mixed with the tea in the same glass).\n\nLibya's population includes 1.7 million students, over 270,000 of whom study at the tertiary level. Basic education in Libya is free for all citizens, and is compulsory up to the secondary level. The adult literacy rate in 2010 was 89.2%.\n\nAfter Libya's independence in 1951, its first university – the University of Libya – was established in Benghazi by royal decree. In the 1975–76 academic year the number of university students was estimated to be 13,418. , this number has increased to more than 200,000, with an extra 70,000 enrolled in the higher technical and vocational sector. The rapid increase in the number of students in the higher education sector has been mirrored by an increase in the number of institutions of higher education.\n\nSince 1975 the number of universities has grown from two to nine and after their introduction in 1980, the number of higher technical and vocational institutes currently stands at 84 (with 12 public universities). Since 2007 some new private universities such as the Libyan International Medical University have been established. Although before 2011 a small number of private institutions were given accreditation, the majority of Libya's higher education has always been financed by the public budget. In 1998 the budget allocation for education represented 38.2% of Libya's total national budget.\n\nIn 2010, spending on healthcare accounted for 3.88% of the country's GDP. In 2009, there were 18.71 physicians and 66.95 nurses per 10,000 inhabitants. The life expectancy at birth was 74.95 years in 2011, or 72.44 years for males and 77.59 years for females.\n\n"}
{"id": "12008257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12008257", "title": "May 1958 crisis in France", "text": "May 1958 crisis in France\n\nThe May 1958 crisis (or Algiers putsch or the coup of 13 May) was a political crisis in France during the turmoil of the Algerian War of Independence (1954–62) which led to collapse of the Fourth Republic and its replacement by the Fifth Republic led by Charles de Gaulle who returned to power after a twelve-year absence. It started as a political uprising in Algiers on 13 May 1958 and then became a military coup d'état led by a coalition headed by Algiers deputy and reserve airborne officer Pierre Lagaillarde, French Generals Raoul Salan, Edmond Jouhaud, Jean Gracieux, and Jacques Massu, and by Admiral Philippe Auboyneau, commander of the Mediterranean fleet. The coup was supported by former Algerian Governor General Jacques Soustelle and his activist allies.\n\nThe coup had as its aim to oppose the formation of Pierre Pflimlin's new government and to impose a change of policies in favor of the right-wing partisans of French Algeria.\n\nRecurrent cabinet crises focused attention on the inherent instability of the Fourth Republic and increased the misgivings of the French Army and of the Pieds-noirs (European Algerians) that the security of French Algeria, an overseas department of France was being undermined by party politics. Army commanders chafed at what they took to be inadequate and incompetent government support of military efforts to end the war. The feeling was widespread that another debacle like that of Indochina in 1954 was in the offing and that the government would order another precipitated pullout and sacrifice French honor to political expediency. The result was the return of Charles de Gaulle.\n\nAfter his tour as governor general, Jacques Soustelle had returned to France to organize support for de Gaulle's return to power, while retaining close ties to the army and the settlers. By early 1958, he had organized a coup d'état, bringing together dissident army officers and colonial officials with sympathetic Gaullists. On 13 May right-wing elements seized power in Algiers and called for a Government of Public Safety under General de Gaulle. Massu became chairman of the Public Safety Committee and one of the leaders of the revolt. General Salan assumed leadership of a Committee of Public Safety formed to replace the civil authority and pressed the junta's demands that de Gaulle be named by French president René Coty to head a government of national union invested with extraordinary powers to prevent the \"abandonment of Algeria.\" Salan announced on radio that the Army had “provisionally taken over responsibility for the destiny of French Algeria”. Under the pressure of Massu, Salan declared \"Vive de Gaulle!\" from the balcony of the Algiers Government-General building on 15 May. De Gaulle answered two days later that he was ready to “assume the powers of the Republic”. Many worried as they saw this answer as support for the army.\n\nAt a 19 May press conference, de Gaulle asserted again that he was at the disposal of the country. When a journalist expressed the concerns of some who feared that he would violate civil liberties, de Gaulle retorted vehemently:\nHave I ever done that? Quite the opposite, I have reestablished them when they had disappeared. Who honestly believes that, at age 67, I would start a career as a dictator?\n\nOn 24 May, French paratroopers from the Algeria landed on Corsica by aircraft, taking the French island in a bloodless action called \"Opération Corse.\" Subsequently, preparations were made in Algeria for \"Operation Resurrection,\" which had as objectives the seizure of Paris and the removal of the French government, through the use of paratroopers and armoured forces based at Rambouillet. \"Operation Resurrection\" was to be implemented if one of three scenarios occurred: if de Gaulle was not approved as leader of France by Parliament, if de Gaulle asked for military assistance to take power, or if it seemed that the French Communist Party was making any move to take power in France.\n\nPolitical leaders on many sides agreed to support the General's return to power with the notable exceptions of François Mitterrand, who was a minister in Guy Mollet's Socialist government, Pierre Mendès-France (a Young Turk of the Radical-Socialist Party, former Prime Minister), Alain Savary (also a member of the French Section of the Workers' International (SFIO)), and the Communist Party. The far-left philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre, a noted atheist, said, “I would rather vote for God,” as he would at least be more modest than de Gaulle. Mendès-France and Savary, opposed to their respective parties' support of de Gaulle, would form together, in 1960, the \"Parti socialiste autonome\" (PSA, Socialist Autonomous Party), ancestor of the \"Parti socialiste unifié\" (PSU, Unified Socialist Party).\n\nOn 29 May President René Coty told parliament that the nation was on the brink of civil war, so he was 'turning towards the most illustrious of Frenchmen, towards the man who, in the darkest years of our history, was our chief for the reconquest of freedom and who refused dictatorship in order to re-establish the Republic. I ask General de Gaulle to confer with the head of state and to examine with him what, in the framework of Republican legality, is necessary for the immediate formation of a government of national safety and what can be done, in a fairly short time, for a deep reform of our institutions.\" De Gaulle accepted Coty's proposal under the precondition that a new constitution would be introduced creating a powerful presidency in which a sole executive, the first of which was to be himself, ruled for seven-year periods. Another condition was that he be granted extraordinary powers for a period of six months.\n\nDe Gaulle's newly formed cabinet was approved by the National Assembly on 1 June 1958, by 329 votes against 224, while he was granted the power to govern by ordinances for a six-month period as well as the task to draft a new Constitution.\n\nThe May 1958 crisis indicated that the Fourth Republic by 1958 no longer had any support from the French army in Algeria, and was at its mercy even in civilian political matters. This decisive shift in the balance of power in civil-military relations in France in 1958 and the threat of force was the main immediate factor in the return of de Gaulle to power in France.\n\nDe Gaulle blamed the institutions of the Fourth Republic for France's political weakness — a Gaullist reading still popular today. As he commissioned the new constitution and was responsible for its overall framework, de Gaulle is sometimes described as the author of the constitution, although it was effectively drafted during the summer of 1958 by the Gaullist Michel Debré. The draft tightly espoused the 1946 speech of Bayeux's propositions, leading to a strong executive and to a rather presidential regime — the President being granted the responsibility of governing the Council of Ministers, as well as to the adoption of article 16, granting \"extraordinary powers\" to the president if a state of emergency was proclaimed, and of bicameralism.\n\nAlthough most politicians supported de Gaulle, Mitterrand, who opposed the new Constitution, famously denounced \"a permanent coup d'état\" in 1964. On 28 September 1958, a referendum took place and 79.2% of those who voted supported the new constitution and the creation of the Fifth Republic. The colonies (Algeria was officially three departments of France, not a colony) were given the choice between immediate independence and the new constitution. All colonies voted for the new constitution and the replacement of the French Union by the French Community, except Guinea, which thus became the first French African colony to gain independence, at the cost of the immediate cessation of all French assistance. \n\nDe Gaulle was elected President of the French Republic and of the African and Malagasy Community on 21 December 1958 by indirect suffrage. He was invested on 8 January 1959. In the meanwhile, de Gaulle had met the German chancellor Konrad Adenauer on 14 September 1958 at his home at Colombey-les-Deux-Églises; had sent a memorandum to US President Dwight D. Eisenhower on 17 September 1958, recalling his will of national independence; he also took financial measures on 27 December 1958 to reduce the state deficit, and, in Algeria, called for the \"peace of the brave\" (\"paix des braves\") in October 1958.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "26697065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26697065", "title": "Ministry of Education, Culture and Research (Moldova)", "text": "Ministry of Education, Culture and Research (Moldova)\n\nThe Ministry of Education, Culture and Research of Moldova () is one of the nine ministries of the Government of Moldova. Ministry was established on 27 May 1953 in the Soviet Moldova.\n\nThe current Minister is Monica Babuc, who was nominated by the Democratic Party of Moldova (PDM).\n\nIn 2017 as part of the government refom in Moldova, the Ministry of Culture was renamed to Ministry of Education, Culture and Research, and absorbed the Ministry of Education, and the Ministry of Youth and Sports, becoming their legal successor.\n"}
{"id": "1826871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1826871", "title": "Monitor Action Group", "text": "Monitor Action Group\n\nThe Monitor Action Group is a political party in Namibia. The party came into existence as the transformation of the National Party of South West Africa in 1991, Kosie Pretorius became its first chairperson and served until his retirement from active politics in June 2013. The party is based among conservative Afrikaners, with most of the top leadership having served in the government of apartheid South West Africa. In June 2009, the party contended that aspects of the affirmative action policy of Namibia violated the country's constitution.\n\nAt the parliamentary elections 15 and 16 November 2004, the party won 0.8% of popular votes and 1 out of 72 seats. The party was run by Kosie Pretorius, though Jurie Viljoen was the party's representative in the National Assembly.\n\nIn the 2009 election, the party chose not to run a candidate for president, but competed for seats in the National Assembly of Namibia. However, the party received only 4,718 votes, just below the minimum for a seat in the National Assembly. Ahead of the election, the top four party leaders were Kosie Pretorius, Jurie Viljoen, Gernot Wilfrid Schaaf and Eric Peters.\n"}
{"id": "37979332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37979332", "title": "Mosul Question", "text": "Mosul Question\n\nThe Mosul Question was a territorial dispute in the early 20th century between Turkey and the United Kingdom (later Iraq) over the possession of the former Ottoman Mosul Vilayet.\n\nThe Mosul Vilayet was part of the Ottoman Empire until the end of World War I, when it was occupied by Britain. After the Turkish War of Independence, the new Turkish Republic considered Mosul one of the crucial issues determined in the National Pact. Despite constant resistance, Britain managed to bring the issue into the international arena, scaling it down to a frontier problem between Turkey and Iraq.\n\nThe League of Nations Council appointed an investigative commission that recommended that Iraq should retain Mosul, and Turkey reluctantly assented to the decision by signing the Frontier Treaty with the Iraqi government in 1926. Iraq agreed to give a 10 percent royalty on Mosul's oil deposits to Turkey for 25 years.\n\nNear the end of World War I, the debilitated Ottoman Empire signed the Armistice of Mudros, calling for a ceasefire with the United Kingdom, on October 30, 1918. Three days later, on November 2, Lt. Gen. Sir William Marshall invaded the Mosul Vilayet until November 15, 1918 when he was finally successful in defeating the Ottoman forces and causing them to surrender.\n\nIn August 1920, the Treaty of Sèvres was signed to end the war, however the Ottomans still contested the British right to Mosul and how it was taken illegally, post-Mudros. Even when the Lausanne Treaty was signed between Turkey and Britain in 1923, Turkey still maintained that Britain was controlling the Mosul Vilayet illegally. British officials in London and Baghdad continued to believe that Mosul was imperative to the survival of Iraq because of its resources and the security of its mountainous border. Turkish leaders were also afraid that Kurdish nationalism would thrive under British Mandate and start trouble with the Kurdish population in Turkey.\n\nIn order to reach a resolution on the conflicting claims over Mosul, the League of Nations was called on to send a fact-finding commission in order to determine the rightful owner. The commission investigated the region and then reported that Turkey had no claim to Mosul and it belonged to the British and no one else had any rightful claim to the area.\n\nBecause of the amount of influence wielded by Britain in the League of Nations, the decision of the fact-finding commission was not surprising. Another aspect of Britain's influence on the League of Nations was that the Secretary of the War Cabinet, Maurice Hankey, decided that Britain needed to have control over the whole area because of their oil concerns for the Royal Navy before the commission was completed.\n\nBecause Britain also wanted to soothe Turkish anger over the League of Nations decision, they gave them a portion of the oil profits. By having control over the oil and the IPC, the British stayed in control of the resources of Mosul even though they had given political control back to Faysal.\n\nAnother area of contention between Britain and Turkey was the actual boundary line. There was a Brussels Line which had been decided by the League of Nations as the true border of Iraq, and a British line which was the division line the Britain had used as reference in the past. When this was brought up to British leaders, both Percy Cox, the British High Commissioner of Iraq, and Arnold Wilson, the British civil commissioner in Baghdad, urged Lloyd George, who was the Prime Minister, to use the Brussels line because they did not think there was that large of a difference between the two line boundaries.\n\nThe Mosul Vilayet was not just contested by external powers, i.e. Britain and Turkey; Faysal ibn Husayn, the Hashemite ruler who had become the king of the newly created state of Iraq by the British in 1921, also wanted to claim the Mosul Vilayet as his. The British liked, and respected Faysal because of all of the assistance he had given to them; the British also felt that they could trust him to do what they wanted. In this belief, Britain was both right and wrong. Faysal was a brilliant diplomat who was able to balance what the British wanted and the true needs of his people into a very complex system. However, one of the things he wanted most was the unification and strong status of Iraq and he did not believe that was possible without having control of the Mosul Vilayet.\n\nPrior to the League of Nations decision, Faysal had continually petitioned the British government to give control of Mosul to him so that he could succeed in his aim of unification. Finally, after the League of Nations decision, the British agree to let Faysal have control over Mosul in return for important resource concessions. The British founded the Turkish Petroleum Company which they later named the Iraq Petroleum Company (IPC).\n\nAnother internal group that wanted control over Mosul was the Kurds. The Kurds were the natural inhabitants of some parts of the Vilayet and did not want to belong to any other government other than their own. They had long fought against being integrated into Iraq because they wanted independence. Most Kurds did not consider themselves as a part of the new country of Iraq. Various Kurdish leaders rallied Kurdish groups who already had their own firepower and had been helped by different imperial powers on occasions when it suited their needs. Furthermore, many Kurds felt betrayed by promises the British had made to them in earlier times and subsequently not kept. Faysal wanted to integrate them because, as by a majority Sunnis, he needed them to balance out the Shiite population. Britain used both the Kurdish firepower and Faysal's desire for a united Iraq in order to keep a stranglehold over him, and later Iran used the Kurds and their firepower in order to keep unrest in Iraq during the reign of Khomeini. The Kurds did not want to be integrated into Iraq; however they did support the continuance of the British mandate in the area.\n\nThe vilayet had a Kurdish speaking population, a large Assyrian Syriac speaking population and an Arabic speaking population, and in contrast to Mosul's neighbors, it was much more directly integrated into the Ottoman Empire. With regards to the religious communities, it was predominately Sunni with notable communities of Turkmen, Kurds, Assyrian Christians and Jews with a total population of about 800,000 people in the early 20th century. These communities and their respective leaders were heavily influenced by the political hierarchy, trading networks, and the judicial system of the Ottoman Empire, even though they considered themselves on their own and not completely controlled by the empire.\n\nDuring the period of Ottoman rule, Mosul was involved in the production of fine cotton goods. Oil was a known commodity in the region and it became critically important during World War I and continuing until today. Mosul was considered a trading capital of the Ottoman Empire because of its location along the trade routes to India and the Mediterranean; also it was considered a political sub-capitol.\n\nThe leadership was constantly plagued with accusations of corruption and incompetence, and leaders were replaced with an alarming regularity. Also, because of these problems, the administration of Mosul was entrusted to Palace and notable favorites, where the high official's careers were usually determined by tribal issues within their states.\n"}
{"id": "2050454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2050454", "title": "Online petition", "text": "Online petition\n\nAn online petition (or Internet petition, or e-petition) is a form of petition which is signed online, usually through a form on a website. Visitors to the online petition sign the petition by adding their details such as name and email address. Typically, after there are enough signatories, the resulting letter may be delivered to the subject of the petition, usually via e-mail. The online petition may also deliver an email to the target of the petition each time the petition is signed.\n\nThe format makes it easy for people to make a petition at any time. Several websites allow anyone with computer access to make one to protest any cause, such as stopping construction or closure of a store. Because petitions are easy to set up, the site can attract frivolous causes, or jokes framed in the ostensible form of a petition.\n\nOnline petitions may be abused if signers don't use real names, thus undermining its legitimacy. Verification, for example via a confirmation e-mail can prevent padding a petition with false names and e-mails. Many petition sites now have safeguards to match real world processes; such as local governments requiring protest groups to present petition signatures, plus their printed name, and a way to verify the signature (either with a phone number or identification number via a driver's license or a passport) to ensure that the signature is legitimate and not falsified by the protestors.\n\nThere are now several major web initiatives featuring online petitions, for example Change.org, Avaaz.org, and 38 Degrees. These are growing in popularity and ability to achieve political impact. The \"Economist\" commented that Avaaz has had \"some spectacular successes\", but raises questions about what objective measures can be used to assess \"the reach of a global e-protest movement\". Recently, several petitions on Change.org have been attributed to the reversal of a United Airlines Dog Policy.\n\nSome legitimate non-governmental organizations (NGOs) shun online petitions. Reasons include the paucity of examples of this form of petition achieving its objective. Critics frequently cite it as an example of slacktivism.\n\nIn February 2007 an online petition against road pricing and car tracking on the UK Prime Minister's own website attracted over 1.8 million e-signatures from a population of 60 million people. The site was official but experimental at the time. Shocked government ministers were unable to backtrack on the site's existence in the face of national news coverage of the phenomenon. The incident has demonstrated both the potential and pitfalls of online e-Government petitions.\n\nA similar form of petition is the e-mail petition. This petition may be a simple chain letter, requesting that its users forward them to a large number of people in order to meet a goal or to attain a falsely promised reward. Other times the usage will contain a form to be printed and filled out, or a link to an offsite online petition which the recipient can sign. Usually, the e-mail petition focuses on a specific cause that is meant to cause outrage or ire, centering on a timely political or cultural topic. E-mail petitions were among the earliest attempts to garner attention to a cause from an online audience.\n\nThe first known successful online petition was written during the summer of 1998. This was a petition to the New York Mets with the goal of re-signing catcher Mike Piazza as a free agent. Piazza had been obtained by the Mets earlier in the season and was eligible for free agency for the 1999 season. The petition was publicized through a Geocities website, various newsgroups and emails, garnering 10,316 signatures. The petition was sent to Mike Piazza, his agents, Mets ownership and general manager Mike Phillips.\n\nA digitized copy of the petition, documentation of the petition through news articles, and a sound file of Mike Phillips announcing Piazza's signing for seven years along with his acknowledgment of the petition are available in the research files of the A. Bartlett Giamatti Research Center of the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum.\n\nWith the rise of the World Wide Web as a platform for commerce, activism and discussion, an opportunity to garner attention for various social causes was perceived by various players, resulting in a more formalized structure for online petitions; one of the first web-based petition hosts, PetitionOnline, was founded in 1999, with others such as GoPetition (founded in 2000), thePetitionSite.com, iPetitions, and others being established in the years since. Petition hosts served as accessible external locations for the creation of a wide variety of petitions for free by users, providing easier interfaces for such petitions in comparison to the previous e-mail petitions and informal web forum-based petitions. However, petition hosts were criticized for their lax requirements from users who created or signed such petitions: petitions were often only signed with false or anonymous nomenclatures, and often resulted in disorganized side commentary between signers of the same petition.\n\nThe rise of online social networking in the later 2000s, however, resulted in both an increase of Internet petition integration into social networks and an increase of visibility for such petitions; Facebook, Change.org, Care2, Avaaz.org, SumOfUs, GoPetition and other sites serve as examples of the integration of Internet petitions as a form of social media and user-generated content. Such networks may have proven to be more fertile ground for the creation of, signing of and response to online petitions, as such networks generally lack the heightened level of anonymity associated with the earlier dedicated petition hosts.\n\nIn some cases petition sites have managed to reach agreement with state institutions about the implementation mechanism of widely supported initiatives. Thus, platform ManaBalss.lv in Latvia has the authority to hand over to a national parliament any legally correct initiative which has been signed by more than 10,000 authenticated supporters. Approximately half of these initiatives have been either supported by parliament or are in the process of review.\n\nThe UK Parliament petitions website was suspended in April 2010 but then reopened in a new guise in August 2011, with time allocated for parliamentary debate a possibility for petitions attracting more than 100,000 signatures.\n\nSome parliaments, government agencies and officials, such as The Scottish Parliament with the e-Petitioner system (from 1999), the Queensland Parliament in Australia, German Bundestag (from 2005), Cabinet of ministers of Ukraine (from 2016) and Bristol City Council in the U.K have adopted electronic petitioning systems as a way to display a commitment to their constituents and provide greater accessibility into government operations.\n\nIn the UK, the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 requires all principal authorities to provide a facility for people to submit petitions electronically. This requirement came into force on 15 December 2010.\n\nThe US government created We The People in 2011 as a platform for creating and signing petitions on the White House web server. The White House originally required petitions to gather 5,000 signatures within 30 days, after which time policy officials in the administration would review the petition and issue an official response. Within two weeks of its launch, the threshold was raised to 25,000 signatures. Further changes in 2013 raised the threshold to 100,000 signatures.\n\nOther groups are attempting to establish electronic petitioning as a way to streamline and make existing citizens' initiative processes more accessible.\n\nAs is the case with public perceptions of slacktivism, Internet petitions are both a popular resort of web-based activism and a target of criticism from those who feel that such petitions are often disregarded by their targets because of the anonymity of petition signers; Snopes.com, for example, sides against the usage of Internet petitions as a method of activism. On the other hand, the creators of petition hosts, such as Randy Paynter of Care2 and thePetitionSite.com, have defended web-based petitions as being more feasible, credible and effective than e-mail petitions, claiming they are not fairly judged as a method of activism by their critics. Since then, Snopes.com has removed the text about the inefficacy of Internet petitions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "106367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106367", "title": "Parti Québécois", "text": "Parti Québécois\n\nThe Parti Québécois (French for \"Quebec Party\"; PQ; ) is a sovereignist and social democratic provincial political party in Quebec, Canada. The PQ advocates national sovereignty for Quebec involving independence of the province of Quebec from Canada and establishing a sovereign state. The PQ has also promoted the possibility of maintaining a loose political and economic sovereignty-association between Quebec and Canada. The party traditionally has support from the labour movement, but unlike most other social democratic parties, its ties with organized labour are informal. Members and supporters of the PQ are called \"péquistes\" ( ;), a French word derived from the pronunciation of the party's initials.\n\nThe party is an associate member of COPPPAL. The party has strong informal ties to the Bloc Québécois (BQ, whose members are known as \"Bloquistes\"), the federal party that has also advocated for the secession of Quebec from Canada, but the two are not linked organizationally. As with its federal counterpart, the Parti Québécois has been supported by a wide range of voters in Quebec, from large sections of organized labour to more conservative rural voters.\n\nThe PQ is the result of the 1968 merger between former Quebec Liberal Party cabinet minister René Lévesque's Mouvement Souveraineté-Association and the Ralliement national. Following the creation of the PQ, the Rassemblement pour l'Indépendance Nationale held a general assembly that voted to dissolve the RIN. Its former members were invited to join the new Parti Québécois.\n\nThe PQ's primary goals were to obtain political, economic and social autonomy for the province of Quebec. Lévesque introduced the strategy of referenda early in the 1970s.\n\nThe PQ faced its first electoral test in the 1970 provincial election, winning seven seats. However, Lévesque was unable to get into the renamed National Assembly. Although it lost one seat in 1973, the decimation of the other parties, particularly the Union Nationale, allowed it to become the official opposition even though Lévesque was still unable to win a seat.\n\nIn the 1976 provincial election, the Parti Québécois won government for the first time, taking 71 of the 110 seats available. Lévesque became the Premier of Quebec. This provided cause for celebration among many French-speaking Quebecers, while it resulted in an acceleration of the migration of the province's Anglophone population and related economic activity toward Toronto.\n\nThe first PQ government was known as the \"republic of professors\" because of the large number of scholars in Lévesque's cabinet. The PQ was the first government to recognize the rights of Aboriginal peoples to self-determination, insofar as this self-determination did not affect the territorial integrity of Quebec. The PQ passed laws on public consultations and the financing of political parties, which ensured equal financing of political parties and limited contributions by individuals to $3000. However, the most prominent legacy of the PQ is the Charter of the French Language (Bill 101), a framework law which defines the linguistic primacy of French and seeks to make French the common public language of Quebec. It allowed the advancement of francophones towards management roles, until then largely out of their reach. Despite the fact that 85% of the population spoke French and most of them did not understand English, the language of management was English in most medium and large businesses. Critics, both Francophone and Anglophone, have however criticized the charter for restraining citizens' linguistic school choice, as it forbids immigrants and Quebecers of French descent from attending English-language schools funded by the state (private schools remained an option for those who could afford tuition). The Parti Québécois initiated the 1980 Quebec referendum seeking a mandate to begin negotiation for sovereignty-association. It was rejected by 60 per cent of voters.\n\nThe party was re-elected in the 1981 election, but in November 1984 it experienced the most severe internal crisis of its existence. Lévesque wanted to focus on governing Quebec rather than sovereignty, and also wanted to adopt a more conciliatory approach on constitutional issues. This angered the more ardent sovereigntists, known as the \"purs et durs\". Lévesque was forced to resign as a result. In September 1985, the party leadership election chose Pierre-Marc Johnson as his successor.\n\nDespite its social-democratic past, the PQ failed to gain admission into the Socialist International, after the membership application was vetoed by the federal New Democratic Party.\n\nThe PQ led by Johnson was defeated by the Quebec Liberal Party in the 1985 election that saw Robert Bourassa return as premier. The Liberals served in office for two terms and attempted to negotiate a constitutional settlement with the rest of Canada but with the failure of the Meech Lake Accord and the Charlottetown Accord, two packages of proposed amendments to the Canadian constitution, the question of Quebec's status remained unresolved and the Quebec sovereignty movement revived.\n\nThe PQ returned to power under the leadership of hardline sovereigntist Jacques Parizeau in the 1994 Quebec election. This saw the PQ win 77 seats and 44% of the vote, on a promise to hold an independence referendum within a year. The following year, Parizeau called the 1995 Quebec referendum proposing negotiations on sovereignty. Again, the sovereigntists lost the vote. The final count showed 49.42% of voters supported negotiations that could eventually lead to sovereignty. On the night of the defeat, an emotionally drained Premier Parizeau stated that the loss was caused by \"money and ethnic votes\" (which led to accusations that Parizeau was racist) as well as by the divided votes amongst francophones. Parizeau resigned the next day (as he is alleged to have planned beforehand in case of a defeat).\n\nLucien Bouchard, a former member of Prime Minister Brian Mulroney's Cabinet and later founder of the Bloc Québécois, a federal-level sovereigntist party, succeeded Parizeau as PQ leader, but chose not to call another referendum due to the absence of \"winning conditions\". Bouchard's government then balanced the provincial budget – a feat achieved in Canada only by the federal government and a few of the ten Canadian provinces at that point – by reducing government spending, including social programs. The PQ was re-elected in the 1998 election, despite receiving fewer votes than the Quebec Liberal Party led by former federal deputy prime minister Jean Charest. Bouchard resigned in 2001, and was succeeded as PQ leader and Quebec Premier by Bernard Landry, a former PQ Finance minister. Under Landry's leadership, the party lost the 2003 election to Jean Charest's Liberals.\n\nMid-late 2004 was difficult for Landry's leadership, which was being contested. A vote was held during the party's June 2005 convention to determine whether Landry continued to have the confidence of the party membership. Landry said he wanted at least 80% of approval and after gaining 76.2% approval on the confidence vote from party membership on 4 June 2005, Landry announced his intention to resign.\n\nLouise Harel had been chosen to replace him until a new leader, André Boisclair, was elected 15 November 2005, through the party's 2005 leadership election. At the time of Boisclair's election, the PQ was as much as 20 percent ahead of the Liberals in opinion polls, suggesting that Boisclair would lead them to a landslide majority government in the next election.\n\nProgressives on the left wing of the PQ perceived a rightward move by the party towards neoliberalism under Bouchard, Landry and Boisclair. In 2006, a new left-wing party, Québec solidaire, was formed which included many activists who would have formerly been members or supporters of the PQ. Over subsequent elections, the QS would attract increasing support from left-wing sovereigntists disillusioned with the PQ, while on the right, the ADQ and later the Coalition Avenir Québec attracted the votes of right-wing and soft sovereigntists who eventually become Quebec autonomists and Canadian federalists while retaining their Quebec nationalist identities, resulting in the PQ being squeezed from both sides.\n\nThe PQ was unable to maintain the momentum it briefly had under Boisclair, and in the 2007 provincial election, the party fell to 36 seats and behind the conservative Action démocratique du Québec (ADQ) in number of seats and the popular vote: this is the first time since 1973 that the party did not form the government or Official Opposition. Boisclair said that the voters clearly did not support a strategy of a rapid referendum in the first mandate of a PQ government. Instead of a policy convention following the election, the party held a presidents' council. The party caucus in the provincial legislative assembly was said to have supported Boisclair continuing as leader.\n\nOn May 8, 2007 Boisclair announced his resignation as leader of the PQ. This was effective immediately, although Boisclair confirmed he would remain within the PQ caucus for the time being. He was replaced by veteran MNA François Gendron, pending a leadership race and convention.\nFormer Bloc Québécois leader Gilles Duceppe was the first to announce his intention to run for party leadership, on 11 May 2007. He was followed the same day by Pauline Marois. In a surprise move, Duceppe withdrew on the 12th – leaving Marois the only declared candidate. No other candidates came forward, and on 26 June 2007, Marois won the leadership by acclamation.\n\nIn June 2011, the party was shaken when three of its most prominent MNAs—popular actor Pierre Curzi, former cabinet minister Louise Beaudoin, and Lisette Lapointe, the wife of former premier Jacques Parizeau, followed the next day by a fourth, Jean-Martin Aussant, quit the party to sit as independents over Marois's support for a bill changing the law to permit an agreement between the City of Québec and Quebecor Inc. concerning the management of the new sports and entertainment complex in Quebec City. Unrest continued later in the month when a fifth MNA, Benoit Charette, also quit, citing his dissatisfaction with the party's sole focus being sovereignty. Beaudoin rejoined the PQ caucus in 2012.\n\nThe party won a minority government under Marois in the 2012 provincial election with 54 of 125 seats in the National Assembly. It embarked on a program of \"sovereigntist governance\" in relations with the rest of Canada, to return Quebec to balanced budgets through higher taxes and debt reduction, to increase the use of French in public services, and to address resource development in Northern Quebec. However the PQ's 'new Bill 101' did not pass. The centrepiece of the government's program was a Quebec Charter of Values which would have curtailed minority religious identity by banning the wearing of religious symbols by those in the employ of the government, particularly Sikh turbans, Muslim veils and Jewish kippas.\n\nBased on the charter's growing popularity among francophones, Marois called an early election for 7 April 2014 in an attempt to win a majority government. Despite leading in the polls when the writ was dropped, the campaign went badly due to several mishaps. The recruitment of star candidate Pierre Karl Péladeau, whose comments made sovereignty and the prospect of another referendum a focus of the campaign, as well as feminist Janette Bertrand suggesting that wealthy Muslim men were taking over swimming pools, among other incidents badly hurt the PQ. Marois' government was defeated by the Liberals, led by Philippe Couillard, in the 2014 provincial election which resulted in a Liberal majority government. The PQ won 25% of the vote and 30 seats, its worst result in terms of popular vote since 1970. Marois announced her intention to resign as PQ leader that night.\n\nStéphane Bédard was chosen interim parliamentary leader by the PQ caucus on 10 April 2014.\n\nOn the 20 October 2014 Lévis by-election, PQ candidate Alexandre Bégin came in third place, with 8.28% of the popular vote, only narrowly beating Québec Solidaire.\n\nOn November 27, 2014, Pierre Karl Péladeau announced his intentions to run for PQ's leadership, joining Bernard Drainville, Martine Ouellet, Jean-François Lisée, Alexandre Cloutier, and Pierre Céré.\n\nDespite a fiercely contested race, Péladeau was the frontrunner for much of the campaign, causing Jean-François Lisée to drop out in January 2015, Bernard Drainville to drop out on April 22, 2015, and Pierre Céré to follow Drainville only five days before the leadership election.\n\nOn May 15, 2015, Pierre Karl Péladeau was elected permanent leader.\n\nOn May 2, 2016, Péladeau announced that he was retiring from politics to dedicate more time to his family.\n\nJean-François Lisée was elected leader of Parti Québécois on October 7, 2016. \n\nLisée charged Manon Massé with reneging in unsuccessful deliberations for a putative electoral alliance between the Parti Québécois and Québec Solidaire in 2017.\n\nThe 2018 provincial election unfolded in a historic way, being the first time in a half century a party other than the Parti Québécois or Liberals were elected to power, with a Coalition Avenir Québec majority win. It also marked, for the first time in 42 years, that the Parti Québécois failed to win a sufficient number of seats to maintain its official party status. With only 10 seats won, not only did it lose its official party status, but was relegated to third place (tied with Québec Solidaire) — the party's worst showing in terms of its placement in the National Assembly since the 1970 provincial election when the party first appeared. In this election the Parti Québécois only managed to acquire 17% of the popular vote, the lowest score in party's history. With few exceptions, its support bled to the CAQ; in many cases, ridings that had been in PQ hands for 40 years or more fell by large margins. Leader Jean-François Lisée failed to win his own seat and therefore resigned shortly thereafter, accepting the blame for his party's failure and collapse. After 50 years in the forefront of Quebec politics, the Parti Québécois had been pushed into marginal status, with its very survival in doubt. Indeed, Christian Bourque of Montreal-based pollster Léger suggested that the PQ was likely finished in its present form, and would have to merge with another sovereigntist party to avoid fading into irrelevance.\n\nThe Bloc Québécois (BQ) is a federal political party founded in 1990 by former Progressive Conservative MP Lucien Bouchard. It has traditionally had close ties to the Parti Québécois and shares its principal objective of sovereignty. The two parties have frequently shared political candidates, and have supported each other during election campaigns. The two parties have a similar membership and voter base. Prominent members of either party often attend and speak at both organizations' public events. Gilles Duceppe, the former Bloc leader, is also the son of Jean Duceppe, a Quebec actor who helped found the PQ.\n\nIn June 2014, Mario Beaulieu, a former PQ riding president and Bloc candidate, was elected leader of the Bloc Québécois. Notwithstanding his previous ties to both parties, Beaulieu has been critical of what he sees as a too timid approach to sovereignty by both the Bloc and PQ. Beaulieu's election as Bloc leader was more warmly received by the PQ's rival party, Option nationale, than by the PQ.\nIn 2018 it was reported that the base of the party, shows a growing coziness between far-right groups like La Meute and Storm Alliance on the one hand, and members and supporters of the Parti Québécois on the other — from grassroots activists to aspiring candidates to officials on the executive council.\n\nThe party's distinctive logo was designed in 1968 by painter and poet Roland Giguère. It consists of a stylised letter Q, represented by a blue circle broken by a red arrow. The creator meant it as an allegory of the Parti Québécois breaking the circle of colonialism which he claimed Canada was imposing on Quebec and opening Quebec upon the world and the future. The PQ has made very few significant modifications to its logo during its history. In 1985 it made the circle and arrow slightly thicker, and placed the tip of the latter at the centre of the circle. The original saw it span the whole diameter. When placed upon a blue background instead of a white one, the circle was commonly turned to white, the single main design variation currently observed.\n\nThe party revealed a new logo on 21 February 2007, at the beginning of the 2007 provincial election campaign. While maintaining the basic style of past logos, the Q was redesigned and modernized. In addition, the tail of the Q was recoloured green.\nThe Parti Québécois centres on the protection of the Franco-Québécois identity, up to or including the ultimate result of sovereignty-association. Sovereigntism, however, is 'Article 1' in its party program.\n\nAfter then-French President Nicolas Sarkozy rejected the long-standing \"non-interference, non-indifference\" stance towards Quebec should it seek sovereignty in 2009, PQ leader and Premier Pauline Marois' visit to France in October 2012 saw her reinstate it with French President François Hollande. Also during her visit, Marois commented that \"Canada's current foreign policy corresponds to neither our values nor our interests\".\n\nThe PQ delivered a brief to the reasonable accommodation commission on minorities, which conducted hearings across the province. The commission briefing looked to reformulate the relations between Quebec's francophone and minority populations. Its task was to be a platform for the PQ's protectionism of French.\n\nMarois stated there is nothing dogmatic in Francophones wishing to declare their existence even if it includes developing legislation requiring newcomers to have a basic understanding of French before becoming citizens of Quebec. (Note that there are no official citizens of Quebec; residents of Quebec are citizens of Canada.)\n\nFurther to her desire to protect French in Quebec, during Marois' visit to France in October 2012, she recommended that the \"French elite\" conduct themselves only in French on the international scene. However, some of Marois’ international critics scoffed at her pretension that the “French elite” were Québécois.\n\nMarois stated the PQ understands the arrival of newcomers is attractive and they donate largely to Quebec's growth, but she stated that does not imply that to better assimilate them that \"we must erase our own history.\"\n\nAs of 2014, the PQ electoral program describes the party’s main commitment: \"Aspiring to political liberty, the Parti Québécois has as its first objective to achieve the sovereignty of Quebec after consulting the population by a referendum to be held at the moment that the government judges appropriate.\"\n\nOther electoral issues were the Quebec Charter of Values, and language.\n\nThe Party like Coalition Avenir Québec supported the Quebec ban on face covering but also argue the ban is not extensive enough. \n\nThese are the slogans used by the Parti Québécois in general election campaigns throughout its history. They are displayed with an unofficial translation. The elections in which the PQ won or remained in power are in bold.\n\n\nUntil 5 June 2005, the office of Leader of the Parti Québécois was known as President of the Parti Québécois.\n\nWhen a Parti Québécois leader does not have a seat in the National Assembly, another member leads the party in the legislature.\n\nUntil 5 June 2005, the office of President of the Parti Québécois was known as First Vice-President of the Parti Québécois.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48703770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48703770", "title": "Pensioners' Party (Hungary)", "text": "Pensioners' Party (Hungary)\n\nThe Pensioners' Party (; NYUP), was a minor political party in Hungary between 1990 and 2007.\n\nIt was founded by the National Association of Pensioners' Associations within the Patriotic People's Front (HNF) under the name Party of Generations, Party of Pensioners and Families () in January 1990. During its inaugural meeting, jurist Vilmos Michaletzky was elected leader of the party. The NYUP worked for the interests of pensioners, and the party mainly focuses on issues related to health care, taxes and pensioners' issues. The party also had a Christian socialist ideology. The NYUP supported the ideas of family tax benefit and housing subsidies.\n\nOnly one candidate of the party run in the 1990 parliamentary election, who received 0.04 percent of the individual votes, failing to obtain a mandate. However pharmacist and MP Imre Barcza, who had left the Alliance of Free Democrats (SZDSZ) caucus earlier, joined the NYUP in October 1992, providing parliamentary representation for the small party. Before the 1994 parliamentary election, the NYUP negotiated on electoral cooperation with the governing Hungarian Democratic Forum (MDF). Despite this the party's sole candidate gained only 0.02 percentage. For the 1998 parliamentary election, it joined the electoral alliance Union for Hungary, the NYUP had four candidates on the alliances' 80-member national list, but they did not reach the 5% election threshold.\n\nThe NYUP strongly criticized the electoral system which was not favorable for extra-parliamentary parties. Their petition was rejected by the Constitutional Court of Hungary. Before the 2002 parliamentary election, Michaletzky began to negotiate with the internal conflict-ridden Christian Democratic People's Party (KDNP) to ensure a successful cooperation, however the NYUP withdrawn when the KDNP entered a coalition with the Hungarian Social Democratic Party (MSZDP). Thus the party did not participate in the election. The NYUP joined the Hungarian National Alliance (MNSZ) which formed to contest the 2004 European Parliament election. On 27 April 2007, the NYUP transformed itself into a civil organization, called Family Protectional Association of Pensioners (NYCSE).\n"}
{"id": "559737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=559737", "title": "Peter Dutton", "text": "Peter Dutton\n\nPeter Craig Dutton (born 18 November 1970) is an Australian Liberal Party politician serving as Home Affairs Minister in the Morrison Government, and has served as Member of Parliament (MP) for Dickson since 2001. Dutton served as Minister for Health and Sport from 2013 to 2014, and Immigration Minister from 2014 to 2017 in the Abbott and Turnbull Government.\n\nOn 18 July 2017, he was named Minister for Home Affairs and officially appointed by the Governor-General on 20 December 2017 to lead the Department of Home Affairs, a newly created portfolio giving him oversight of ASIO, the AFP and Border Force. He previously served as the Minister for Workforce Participation and Minister for Revenue and Assistant Treasurer in the Howard Government. Dutton has been touted as a future Prime Minister.\n\nIn the first August 2018 spill he challenged Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull for leadership of the Liberal Party, but was defeated by 48 votes to 35. In the aftermath of the spill Dutton resigned from Second Turnbull Ministry and rejected an invitation from Turnbull to remain in the Cabinet. In the second leadership contest, Dutton was defeated by Treasurer and Acting Home Affairs Minister Scott Morrison by 45 votes to 40. Following the appointment of Scott Morrison as the new Prime Minister on 24 August by the Governor-General, Morrison re-appointed Peter Dutton to the Minister for Home Affairs, but relinquished his duties and responsibilities for Immigration and Border Protection, and appointed David Coleman as Immigration Minister.\n\nDutton was born in the northern Brisbane suburb of Boondall, the eldest of five children, with one brother and three sisters. His mother Ailsa Leitch worked in childcare and his father Bruce Dutton was a builder. Dutton finished high school at the Anglican St Paul's School, Bald Hills.\n\nDutton joined the Young Liberals in 1988. He became the policy vice-chair of the Bayside Young Liberals the following year and chair of the branch in 1990. At the 1989 Queensland state election, Dutton ran unsuccessfully as the Liberal candidate against Tom Burns in the safe Labor seat of Lytton.\n\nDutton graduated from the Queensland Police Academy in 1990. He was a Queensland Police officer for nine years, working in the Drug Squad in Brisbane in the early 1990s. He also worked in the Sex Offenders Squad and the National Crime Authority. As a second job, he worked with his father in a building business.\n\nIn 1999, Dutton left the police force to become a businessman, completing a Bachelor of Business at the Queensland University of Technology. He and his father founded the business Dutton Holdings, which was registered in 2000; it operated under six different trading and business names. The company bought, renovated, and converted buildings into childcare centres, and in 2002 sold three childcare centres to the now defunct ABC Learning. ABC Learning continued to pay rent to Dutton Holdings for a commercial lease until at least 2007. Dutton Holdings continues to trade under the name Dutton Building & Development.\n\nDutton was elected to the Division of Dickson at the 2001 election, defeating Labor's Cheryl Kernot. He was elevated to the ministry after the 2004 election as Minister for Workforce Participation, a position he held until January 2006. He was then appointed Assistant Treasurer and Minister for Revenue. He successfully retained Dickson at the 2007 election, which saw the government lose office. However, his margin was reduced to just 217 votes more than Labor's Fiona McNamara.\n\nFollowing the 2007 election, Dutton was promoted to shadow cabinet by the new Liberal leader Brendan Nelson, as Shadow Minister for Finance, Competition Policy and Deregulation. In 2008, he chose not to be present in the chamber during the apology to the Stolen Generations, which enjoyed bipartisan support. He said \"I regarded it as something which was not going to deliver tangible outcomes to kids who are being raped and tortured in communities in the 21st century.\" Later, in a 2014 interview with the Sydney\nMorning Herald, Dutton said he regretted boycotting the apology: \"I underestimated the symbolic and cultural significance of it.\"\n\nIn September 2008, Nelson was replaced as Liberal leader by Malcolm Turnbull, who appointed Dutton as Shadow Minister for Health and Ageing. He retained that position when Tony Abbott succeeded Turnbull as leader in December 2009. In June 2010, Dutton released the Coalition's mental health policy. It received favourable reviews, with \"The Australian\" describing it as \"the most significant announcement by any political party in relation to a targeted, evidence-based investment in mental health\". Dutton retained his seat with a positive swing at the 2010 federal election, despite an unfavourable redistribution. In the lead-up to the 2013 federal election, he announced a range of Coalition health policies, which were received favourably by industry groups. The Australian Medical Association said \"the Coalition has delivered a strong package of practical, affordable health policies that would strengthen general practice\", while Cancer Council Australia said that \"Dutton’s promise to finalise the bowel cancer screening program by 2020 would save an additional 35,000 lives over the next 40 years.\"\n\nAs the 2010 election approached, it looked like Dutton would lose to the Labor candidate due to a redistribution of division boundaries that had erased his majority and made Dickson notionally Labor. To safeguard himself, Dutton sought pre-selection for the merged Liberal National Party in the safe Liberal seat of McPherson on the Gold Coast (despite not living in or near McPherson). Some constituents complained, \"The abandoning of a seat by a sitting MP halfway through a parliamentary term to contest pre-selection in a seat over 100 kilometres to the south is not looked upon favourably.\"\n\nDutton lost the McPherson pre-selection to Karen Andrews, reportedly due to misgivings from former Nationals in the area. He then asked the LNP to \"deliver him a seat for which he doesn't have to fight other preselection candidates.\" Liberal MP Alex Somlyay (the chief Opposition whip of the time) said that Dutton's expectation of an uncontested preselection was \"unusual.\" When the state executive didn't provide Dutton an unchallenged preselection, Dutton reluctantly returned to campaign for the seat of Dickson.\n\nDutton retained his seat at the 2013 election. He was appointed to the Ministry by then Prime Minister Tony Abbott, and served as Minister for Health and Minister for Sport.\n\nAs Health Minister, Dutton announced the world-leading $20 billion Medical Research Future Fund. As announced, the capital and any ongoing capital gains of the Medical Research Future Fund will be preserved in perpetuity.\n\nUnder Minister Dutton, projected funding in the health portfolio increased in the 2014-15 Budget to $66.9 billion, an increase of 7.5 percent from $62.2 billion in 2012-13, the final full year of the Labor Government. Projected expenditure on Medicare increased over 9.5 percent from $18.5 billion in 2012-13 under Labor to a projected $20.32 billion in 2014-15 under Dutton. Funding for public hospital services increased by nearly 14 percent under Dutton in the 2014-15 Budget to a projected $15.12 billion compared to $13.28 billion in the last full year of the Labor Government in 2012-13.\n\nIn a 2015 poll by \"Australian Doctor\" magazine, Dutton was voted the worst health minister in the last 35 years by 46 percent of respondents. However, only 1,100 out of the magazine's 20,000 readers voted.\n\nOn 23 December 2014, Dutton was sworn in as the Minister for Immigration and Border Protection after a cabinet\nreshuffle.\n\nIn September 2015, Dutton cancelled the visa of anti-abortion activist Troy\nNewman, over remarks in his 2000 book \"Their Blood Cries\nOut\".\n\nIn 2016, News Corp Sunday political editor\nSamantha Maiden wrote a column\ncritical of Jamie Briggs. Dutton drafted a text message to Briggs describing Maiden as a\n\"mad fucking witch\" but inadvertently sent it to Maiden. Maiden accepted an apology\nfrom Dutton.\n\nBefore the 2016 election Dutton said of refugees \n\"many ... won't be numerate or literate in their own language let alone English\", and “These people would be taking Australian jobs\". Turnbull\ndefended Dutton by stating he is an \"outstanding Immigration\nMinister\". Against a statewide swing against the government of 2.9%, Dutton's\nmargin fell from 6.7% to 1.6%, leaving him with a margin of less than\n3,000 votes against Labor candidate Linda Lavarch.\n\nOn 5 June 2015, Dutton denied claims made by Greens Senator Sarah Hanson-Young that she was spied on\nduring a visit to Nauru. At the same time he called into question her\ncredibility saying \"she's written to me on some issues which are completely fanciful when you have a look at the facts and she's got a track record of making these things up.\"\nHe also claimed that \"What Sarah Hanson-Young is about is publicity.\nShe loves the camera and she loves to see her own name in the paper.\nThat’s the start and finish of Sarah Hanson-Young.\"\nHanson-Young responded that \"Peter Dutton can attack and insult me as\nmuch as he likes, but nothing will change the fact that my work has\nrevealed systemic child abuse and the rape of young women on Nauru\nunder his watch.\" The spying claims\nwere later confirmed by the Immigration Department and Wilson Security who carried out the spying operation.\n\nIn June 2015, an au pair who was detained at Brisbane Airport made a phone call and had her tourist visa reinstated. In November, in a second case, Dutton granted a visa to another au pair, despite his department warning him that she was at risk of breaching her work conditions on her tourist visa. Dutton indicated that he knew neither tourist. In August 2018, Roman Quaedvlieg indicated that he had personal knowledge of one of the cases, and was seeking to correct Hansard if it did not match his knowledge. A third au pair was granted a visa due to lobbying by AFL chief Gillon McLachlan, she was due to stay with his relative Callum Maclachlan. Dutton's department again warned him there were indications that she was intending to work for Callum's family. A Senate inquiry into two of the cases is due to report on 11 September 2018.\n\nOn 11 September 2015, Dutton was overheard on an open microphone, prior to a community meeting on Syrian\nrefugees, joking about rising sea levels in the Pacific Islands. He said \"time doesn't mean anything when you're about to have water lapping at your door\". Dutton initially refused to\napologise, saying it was a private conversation, but later\napologised. The foreign minister of the\nMarshall Islands at the time, Tony deBrum, responded by writing\nthe \"insensitivity knows no bounds in the big polluting island down\n[south]\" and the \"Next time waves are battering my home [and] my\ngrandkids are scared, I'll ask Peter Dutton to come over, and we'll\nsee if he is still laughing,\"\n\nIn November 2016, Dutton said it was a mistake by the Malcolm Fraser administration to have admitted Lebanese Muslim\nimmigrants. Foreign\nMinister Julie Bishop said Dutton was making a specific point\nabout those charged with terrorism offences. \"He made it quite clear\nthat he respects and appreciates the contribution that the Lebanese\ncommunity make in Australia.\"\n\nOn 15 April 2017 shots were fired by the Papua New Guinea defence force into the Manus Island Detention Centre. Dutton responded saying \"There was difficulty, as I understand it, in the community. There was an alleged incident where three asylum seekers were alleged to be leading a local five year old boy back toward the facility and there was a lot of angst around that, if you like, within the local PNG community.\" \"I think there was concern about why the boy was being led or for what purpose he was being led away back into the regional processing centre. So I think it's fair to say that the mood had elevated quite quickly. I think some of the local residents were quite angry about this particular incident and another alleged sexual assault.\"\n\nHowever, the regional police commander on Manus Island said a young boy who was 10, not five, had gone to the centre two weeks earlier to ask for food. He said \"It’s a total separate incident altogether\" The Greens senator Nick McKim said Dutton had been caught telling\nan outrageous lie. \"This has disturbing echoes of the\nChildren Overboard affair lies.\"\n\nOn 31 October 2017, the Papuan Government closed down the Manus Island regional processing centre. However, 600 men residing in the processing centre refused to be moved to alternative accommodation in the town of Lorengau and staged a protest. Dutton defended the closure of the processing centre and asserted that the Papuan authorities had given notice of the camp's impending closure in May 2017. He also rejected Australian Greens Senator Nick McKim's report that there was no safe alternative accommodation available as false and claimed McKim was inciting trouble. Following a prolonged standoff with Papuan security forces, the remaining men were evacuated, many forcibly, to new accommodation. Arrangements have been made to resettle an unspecified number of the asylum seekers in the United States. The others will be moved to either a different part of Papua New Guinea or a different country.\n\nIn mid November 2017, Dutton rejected an offer by the newly-elected New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern to resettle 150 asylum seekers from the Manus Island detention centre in New Zealand and warned that it would have repercussions for the two countries' bilateral relations. He also claimed that New Zealand's offer would encourage people smugglers. Dutton also criticised a New Zealand offer to provide $3 million for services for asylum seekers on Manus and Nauru as a \"waste of money\" that could be spend elsewhere, such as displaced people in Indonesia. In addition, Dutton criticised Australia's Opposition Leader Bill Shorten's call for Australia to accept the New Zealand offer as an attempt to appease the Labor Left with \"cheap political stunts and mealy-mouthed words\".\n\nOn 20 December 2017, Dutton was appointed the Minister for Home Affairs with responsibilities of overseeing the Department of Home Affairs which was established on the 20 December 2017 by Administrative Arrangement Order. The Home Affairs portfolio is a major re-arrangement of national security, law enforcement, emergency management, transport security, border control, and immigration functions.\n\nIn March 2018 Dutton made calls to treat white South African farmers, as refugees, stating that \"they need help from a civilised country\". However, his offer was rejected by Afrikaner rights organisation AfriForum, which stated that the future of Afrikaners was in Africa, as well as by the survivalist group the Suidlanders, which took credit for bringing the issue of a purported \"white genocide\" to international attention, and for Dutton's decision and was met with \"regret\" by the South African foreign ministry. The Australian High Commissioner was subsequently summoned by the South African foreign ministry, which expressed its offence at Dutton’s statements, and demanded a “full retraction”.\n\nHis proposal got support from some of his party's backbenchers and Liberal Democrat Senator David Leyonhjelm with Leyonhjelm later clarifying that he thought that South African farmers should be admitted under existing visa programmes, and could not be regarded as refugees. National Party of Australia MP Andrew Broad warned that the mass migration of South African farmers would result in food shortages in South Africa. Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema encouraged white farmers to take up Dutton's offer. After initially leaving the door open to changes, Australian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop subsequently ruled out any special deals for white South African farmers, emphasising the non-discriminatory nature of Australia's humanitarian visa programme. In a subsequent interview, Dutton vowed to push forward with his plans, saying that his critics were \"dead to me\".\n\nIn April 2018, it later emerged that Dutton's department had previously blocked asylum applications by a white farmer, and another white South African woman; with the decisions upheld by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal.\n\nAs both Immigration Minister and Home Affairs Minister, Peter Dutton has defended an amendment to the Migration Act 1958 that facilitates the denial or cancellation of Australian visas for non-citizens on \"character\" grounds. This stringent \"character test\" also affects non-citizens who have lived most of their lives in Australia or who have families living in the country. New Zealand nationals living in Australia were disproportionately affected by this \"character test\" with over 1,300 New Zealanders having been deported from Australia in the period between January 2015 and July 2018. According to a Home Affairs Department report, 620 New Zealanders had their visas cancelled on character grounds in 2017 alone.\n\nIn July 2017, Dutton's Department of Immigration and Border Protection introduced a special Skilled Independent subclass 189 visa to provide a pathway for New Zealanders holding a Special Category Visa to acquire Australian citizenship. The visa requires NZ nationals to have held a Special Category Visa for five years and to maintain an annual income of $53,900. Between 60,000 and 80,000 New Zealanders residing in Australia are eligible for the Skilled Independent subclass 189 visa. By February 2018, 1,512 skilled independent visas had been issued by late February 2018 with another 7,500 visas still being processed. The Skilled Independent subclass 189 visa was criticised by Australian Greens Senator Nick McKim as a stealth means of favouring \"English-speaking, white and wealthy\" migrants.\n\nIn early July 2018, Dutton ordered the deportation of controversial New Zealand Baptist Pastor Logan Robertson, who had disrupted services at two mosques in Kuraby and Darra in Brisbane. Dutton approved Robertson's visa cancellation on the grounds that he had violated the conditions of his visa, stating that \"we have a wonderful tradition in our country of freedom of speech, but we're not going to tolerate people going to a place of worship and harassing others.\" Robertson had early drawn controversy in New Zealand for his homophobic remarks and opposition to same-sex marriage.\n\nIn mid-July 2018, Dutton's immigration \"character test\" became the subject of a controversial Australian Broadcasting Corporation documentary, entitled \"Don't Call Australia Home\", focusing on New Zealanders who had been deported from Australia. In response, Dutton issued a tweet defending his deportation policy and claiming that deporting 184 \"bikies\" saved Australia A$116 million. In response, the New Zealand Minister of Justice Andrew Little, who also appeared in the documentary, criticised Australia's deportation laws for lacking \"humanitarian ideals.\" The documentary's release also coincided with the release of a 17-year old New Zealand youth from an Australian detention centre, which had caused friction between the two governments. In response, Dutton defended his Government's policy of deporting non-citizen criminals and chastised New Zealand for not contributing enough to assist Australian naval patrols intercepting the \"people smugglers.\"\n\nOn 21 August 2018, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull called a snap ballot of the leadership of the Liberal Party following several days of feverish leadership speculation, of which Dutton was at the centre. Dutton responded to Turnbull's ballot call by formally challenging for the leadership of the party and won 35 of 83 votes available, 7 short of a majority. Dutton then resigned from the Ministry despite being offered by Turnbull to retain his position of Minister for Home Affairs, and the media speculated that Dutton and his conservative backers in the party were likely to challenge for the leadership again in the near future. Three days later, Dutton called for another leadership spill, and Malcolm Turnbull tendered his resignation to the Governor-General. Dutton was defeated by Treasurer and Acting Home Affairs Minister Scott Morrison by 45 votes to 40.\n\nDoubts surrounding Dutton's eligibility to be elected to parliament emerged on the grounds of section 44(v) of the Australian Constitution, as the family trust owned by Dutton operated a child care centre that received over $5.6 million in funding from the Commonwealth Government, in a situation similar to Bob Day's case. Although Dutton had received legal advice stating that he was not in breach of section 44(v), Labor had received contrary advice; at Turnbull's request, the Attorney-General referred the matter to the Solicitor-General. On 23 August, Labor attempted to move a motion to refer Dutton's eligibility as an MP to the High Court, in a similar manner to referrals made during the recent parliamentary citizenship crisis. The motion failed by 69 votes to 68. On 24 August, the Solicitor-General advised that in terms of section 44(v) Dutton was \"not incapable\" of sitting as an MP, although he added that he had been provided with limited factual information and that, owing to differences of judicial opinion in earlier decisions of the High Court on section 44(v), Dutton's legal position could not be entirely clear without a referral to the High Court. \nDutton was reappointed to his former Home Affairs portfolio by Scott Morrison in the Morrison Ministry, however the duties of Immigration and Border Protection were stripped from the role and were assigned to David Coleman.\n\nDutton is aligned with the right-wing, conservative faction of the Liberal Party. He has been described as a right-wing populist, and is opposed to an Australian republic.\n\nDutton said that people in Melbourne are scared of going out because of \"African gang violence\", leading to him being ridiculed by people who live in Melbourne.\n\nDutton opposes same-sex marriage. In March 2017 it was reported in \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" that Dutton \"said privately it was inevitable that same-sex marriage would become law in Australia so it would be better for the Coalition, rather than Labor, to control the process\". Dutton's actions publicly have been in opposition to same-sex advocates and \"the forcefulness of Mr Dutton's attack on corporate chief executives last week - in which he told them to 'stick to their knitting' - has aroused suspicion among some colleagues who believed he was committed to achieving a breakthrough on [same-sex marriage]\". The following month \"The Daily Telegraph\" reported that Dutton was asked by a lesbian for clarification on his position, and he \"told her he had been clear that he was against same-sex marriage\". In his political career, Dutton has voted \"very strongly against same sex marriage\". However, he voted in favour of the \"Marriage Amendment (Definition and Religious Freedoms) Act 2017\", which legalised same-sex marriage; 65 percent of his constituency voted \"Yes\" in the Australian Marriage Law Postal Survey.\n\nIn March 2017, 31 CEOs signed a letter to Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull calling for a free vote in the Australian Parliament on same-sex marriage. In response to this letter, on 16 March 2017, Dutton said that the CEOs \"shouldn't shove their views down our throats\" and that CEOs who were \"doing the wrong thing\" should \"be publicly shamed\". Dutton repeated\nhis criticism at a speech to the LNP State Council in Queensland on 18\nMarch.\n\nDutton’s comments were heavily criticised as an attempt to censor\nexpressions of support for same-sex marriage, with some commenters\nalso accusing him of hypocrisy given his support for changing\n. Former New South Wales Premier Kristina Keneally said that according to Dutton, \"Free speech is great and should be expanded, unless it’s an Australian corporate CEO speaking about same-sex marriage. Then they need to shut\nup.” Liberal MPs and ministers\nJulie Bishop and Simon Birmingham also expressed disagreement with\nDutton’s comments.\n\nOn 9 May 2017, a 67-year-old man pushed a pie into the face of Qantas CEO Alan Joyce while Joyce was speaking at a function in Perth. The next day, the assailant confirmed that the attack was to protest against Joyce's support for same-sex marriage. Dutton had singled out Joyce in his criticism of pro-same-sex marriage CEOs, leading some LGBTI advocates to hold him partially responsible for the attack. Dutton condemned the attack on Twitter.\n\nDutton, who owns six properties with his wife, including a shopping centre in Townsville, opposes any changes to negative gearing which currently offers tax breaks to property investors, stating that changing it would harm the economy.\n\nDutton has been accused of supporting and promoting the white genocide conspiracy theory. In 2018, he declared that Boers required refugee status in Australia because of \"the horrific circumstances they face\" in South Africa. BBC News reported that the Suidlanders group's \"message of white genocide\" had \"resonated\" with Dutton, prompting him to offer fast-track visas to white South African farmers due to their being \"persecuted\", claiming they needed help from a \"civilised\" country.\n\nDutton married his first wife when he was 22 years of age; however, the marriage ended after a few months. His eldest child, a daughter, was born in 2002 and splits time between her parents in a shared parenting arrangement. In 2003 Dutton married his second wife, Kirilly (), with whom he has two sons.\n\n"}
{"id": "58725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58725", "title": "Physical security", "text": "Physical security\n\nPhysical security describes security measures that are designed to deny unauthorized access to facilities, equipment and resources and to protect personnel and property from damage or harm (such as espionage, theft, or terrorist attacks). Physical security involves the use of multiple layers of interdependent systems which include CCTV surveillance, security guards, protective barriers, locks, access control protocols, and many other techniques.\n\nPhysical security systems for protected facilities are generally intended to:\n\nIt is up to security designers, architects and analysts to balance security controls against risks, taking into account the costs of specifying, developing, testing, implementing, using, managing, monitoring and maintaining the controls, along with broader issues such as aesthetics, human rights, health and safety, and societal norms or conventions. Physical access security measures that are appropriate for a high security prison or a military site may be inappropriate in an office, a home or a vehicle, although the principles are similar.\n\nThe goal of \"deterrence\" methods is to convince potential attackers that a successful attack is unlikely due to strong defenses.\n\nThe initial layer of security for a campus, building, office, or other physical space uses crime prevention through environmental design to deter threats. Some of the most common examples are also the most basic: warning signs or window stickers, fences, vehicle barriers, vehicle height-restrictors, restricted access points, security lighting and trenches.\n\nPhysical barriers such as fences, walls, and vehicle barriers act as the outermost layer of security. They serve to prevent, or at least delay, attacks, and also act as a psychological deterrent by defining the perimeter of the facility and making intrusions seem more difficult. Tall fencing, topped with barbed wire, razor wire or metal spikes are often emplaced on the perimeter of a property, generally with some type of signage that warns people not to attempt to enter. However, in some facilities imposing perimeter walls/fencing will not be possible (e.g. an urban office building that is directly adjacent to public sidewalks) or it may be aesthetically unacceptable (e.g. surrounding a shopping center with tall fences topped with razor wire); in this case, the outer security perimeter will be defined as the walls/windows/doors of the structure itself.\n\nBarriers are typically designed to defeat defined threats. This is part of building codes as well as fire codes. Apart from external threats, there are internal threats of fire, smoke migration as well as sabotage. The National Building Code of Canada, as an example, indicates the need to defeat external explosions with the building envelope, where they are possible, such as where large electrical transformers are located close to a building. High-voltage transformer fire barriers can be examples of walls designed to simultaneously defeat fire, ballistics and fragmentation as a result of transformer ruptures, as well as incoming small weapons fire. Similarly, buildings may have internal barriers to defeat weapons as well as fire and heat. An example would be a counter at a police station or embassy, where the public may access a room but talk through security glass to employees in behind. If such a barrier aligns with a fire compartment as part of building code compliance, then multiple threats must be defeated simultaneously, which must be considered in the design.\n\nAnother major form of deterrence that can be incorporated into the design of facilities is natural surveillance, whereby architects seek to build spaces that are more open and visible to security personnel and authorized users, so that intruders/attackers are unable to perform unauthorized activity without being seen. An example would be decreasing the amount of dense, tall vegetation in the landscaping so that attackers cannot conceal themselves within it, or placing critical resources in areas where intruders would have to cross over a wide, open space to reach them (making it likely that someone would notice them).\n\nSecurity lighting is another effective form of deterrence. Intruders are less likely to enter well-lit areas for fear of being seen. Doors, gates, and other entrances, in particular, should be well lit to allow close observation of people entering and exiting. When lighting the grounds of a facility, widely distributed low-intensity lighting is generally superior to small patches of high-intensity lighting, because the latter can have a tendency to create blind spots for security personnel and CCTV cameras. It is important to place lighting in a manner that makes it difficult to tamper with (e.g. suspending lights from tall poles), and to ensure that there is a backup power supply so that security lights will not go out if the electricity is cut off.\n\nAlarm systems can be installed to alert security personnel when unauthorized access is attempted. Alarm systems work in tandem with physical barriers, mechanical systems, and security guards, serving to trigger a response when these other forms of security have been breached. They consist of sensors including motion sensors, contact sensors, and glass break detectors.\n\nHowever, alarms are only useful if there is a prompt response when they are triggered. In the reconnaissance phase prior to an actual attack, some intruders will test the response time of security personnel to a deliberately tripped alarm system. By measuring the length of time it takes for a security team to arrive (if they arrive at all), the attacker can determine if an attack could succeed before authorities arrive to neutralize the threat. Loud audible alarms can also act as a psychological deterrent, by notifying intruders that their presence has been detected. In some jurisdictions, law enforcement will not respond to alarms from intrusion detection systems unless the activation has been verified by an eyewitness or video. Policies like this one have been created to combat the 94–99 percent rate of false alarm activation in the United States.\n\n\"Surveillance cameras\" can be a deterrent when placed in highly visible locations, and are also useful for incident verification and historical analysis. For example, if alarms are being generated and there is a camera in place, the camera could be viewed to verify the alarms. In instances when an attack has already occurred and a camera is in place at the point of attack, the recorded video can be reviewed. Although the term closed-circuit television (CCTV) is common, it is quickly becoming outdated as more video systems lose the closed circuit for signal transmission and are instead transmitting on IP camera networks.\n\nVideo monitoring does not necessarily guarantee that a human response is made to an intrusion. A human must be monitoring the situation in real time in order to respond in a timely manner. Otherwise, video monitoring is simply a means to gather evidence to be analyzed at a later time. However, advances in information technology are reducing the amount of work required for video monitoring, through automated video analytics.\n\nAccess control methods are used to monitor and control traffic through specific access points and areas of the secure facility. This is done using a variety of systems including CCTV surveillance, identification cards, security guards, and electronic/mechanical control systems such as locks, doors, turnstiles and gates.\n\n\"Mechanical access control systems\" include turnstiles, gates, doors, and locks. Key control of the locks becomes a problem with large user populations and any user turnover. Keys quickly become unmanageable, often forcing the adoption of electronic access control.\n\n\"Electronic access control\" manages large user populations, controlling for user lifecycles times, dates, and individual access points. For example, a user's access rights could allow access from 0700h to 1900h Monday through Friday and expires in 90 days. These access control systems are often interfaced with turnstiles for entry control in buildings to prevent unauthorized access. The use of turnstiles also reduces the need for additional security personnel to monitor each individual entering the building allowing faster throughput.\n\nAn additional sub-layer of mechanical/electronic access control protection is reached by integrating a key management system to manage the possession and usage of mechanical keys to locks or property within a building or campus.\n\nAnother form of access control (\"procedural\") includes the use of policies, processes and procedures to manage the ingress into the restricted area. An example of this is the deployment of security personnel conducting checks for authorized entry at predetermined points of entry. This form of access control is usually supplemented by the earlier forms of access control (i.e. mechanical and electronic access control), or simple devices such as physical passes.\n\n\"Security personnel\" play a central role in all layers of security. All of the technological systems that are employed to enhance physical security are useless without a security force that is trained in their use and maintenance, and which knows how to properly respond to breaches in security. Security personnel perform many functions: as patrols and at checkpoints, to administer electronic access control, to respond to alarms, and to monitor and analyze video.\n\n"}
{"id": "37251971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37251971", "title": "Rashtriya Ulama Council", "text": "Rashtriya Ulama Council\n\nRashtriya Ulama Council (RUC') is a political party in India formed in 2008.\n\nRUC came into existence on 4 October 2008 and was originally called the Ulama Council. It began as a protest group after two youths from Azamgarh were killed in the Batla House near the area of Jamia Nagar, New Delhi. It was the initiative of Maulana Aamir Rashadi Madni and Maulana Tahir Madni, calling a meeting of religious clerics in Uttar Pradesh, in particular regions of Azamgarh and nearby areas on 4 October 2008.\n\nThe Ulama Council booked a train on 29 January 2009 and took thousands of citizens from Azamgarh, Jaunpur, Faizabad, Lucknow, Aligarh, Bijnour, Delhi to protest against the central government and asked for a judicial probe of the encounter. On 20 February 2009, RUC booked two trains and took thousands to convey their protest against the state government. The Ulama Council became a mass movement and transformed into the Rashtriya Ulama Council, a full fledged political party. The party is pursuing the Batla House case through both protests and legal means.\n\nRUC participated in the 2009 parliamentary elections on 5 seats and as expected RUC didn’t win any seat but they secured approximately 2.25 lakh (225,000) votes, unusually successful for a party that was only five months old. It did not ally with other parties.\n\nRUC participated in the Uttar Pradesh 2012 Assembly election, contesting 100 seats out of 401. As expected, the RUC did not win any seats, but they secured nearly 6 lakh (600,000) votes.\n\n"}
{"id": "18541866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18541866", "title": "Roland Clift", "text": "Roland Clift\n\nRoland Clift, CBE FREng is a chemical engineering professor widely known for his work and media contributions on the topic of sustainability.\n\nClift was born 19 November 1942 and studied Chemical Engineering at Cambridge (Trinity College), achieving first class honours in 1964. He received a PhD from McGill University in 1970 for work on particle-fluid interactions, and this was his main research area (at McGill and Cambridge then Surrey University) in subsequent years. He became Head of the Department of Chemical Engineering at Surrey in 1981.\nHis growing interest in the application of engineering principles to environmental issues led him in 1992 to establish the Centre for Environmental Strategy (CES) at the University of Surrey, a multidisciplinary group of engineers, scientists and social scientists. In this Centre he was an advocate of Clean Technology, Life Cycle Assessment and Sustainable Development. He is presently Professor Emeritus at the CES.\nHe has made a number of criticisms of government policy with respect to energy and the environment.\n\nMember, Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution (1996–2005). Visiting Professor in Environmental systems analysis at Chalmers University, Sweden. Expert Adviser to the House of Lords Science and Technology Committee enquiry into Energy Efficiency (2004–05). Member of the Science Advisory Council of the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) (2006–). Vice-President of Environmental Protection UK. President of the International Society for Industrial Ecology 2009–10.\n\nHe is a Fellow of the Institution of Chemical Engineers, the Royal Academy of Engineering and the Royal Society of Arts. In 1994 he was made an OBE for his initiative in promoting research in Clean Technology, and a CBE in 2006 for services to the environment. He received the Sir Frank Whittle Medal of the Royal Academy of Engineering for 2003, for 'an outstanding and sustained engineering achievement contributing to the well-being of the nation'. He received the 2007 Hanson Medal of the Institution of Chemical Engineers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12578785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12578785", "title": "Rural Secretariat", "text": "Rural Secretariat\n\nThe Rural Secretariat was a focal point for the Government of Canada to work in partnership with Canadians in rural and remote areas to build strong, dynamic communities. It was dismantled by the Conservative government in 2013. Located in Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, it provided leadership and coordination for the Canadian Rural Partnership; facilitated liaison and creation of partnerships around rural issues and priorities; and promoted dialogue between rural stakeholders and the federal government.\n\nKey activities of the Rural Secretariat included:\n\nThe Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food was responsible for the Rural Secretariat.\n"}
{"id": "993509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=993509", "title": "Science wars", "text": "Science wars\n\nThe science wars is a series of intellectual exchanges, between scientific realists and postmodernist critics, about the nature of scientific theory and intellectual inquiry. They took place principally in the United States in the 1990s in the academic and mainstream press. Scientific realists (such as Norman Levitt, Paul R. Gross, Jean Bricmont and Alan Sokal) argued that scientific knowledge is real, and accused the postmodernists of having effectively rejected scientific objectivity, the scientific method, Empiricism, and scientific knowledge. Postmodernists interpreted Thomas Kuhn's ideas about scientific paradigms to mean that scientific theories are social constructs, and philosophers like Paul Feyerabend argued that other, non-realist forms of knowledge production were better suited to serve people's personal and spiritual needs.\n\nThough much of the theory associated with 'postmodernism' (see poststructuralism) did not make any interventions into the natural sciences, the scientific realists took aim at its general influence. The scientific realists argued that large swaths of scholarship, amounting to a rejection of objectivity and realism, had been influenced by major 20th Century poststructuralist philosophers (such as Jacques Derrida, Gilles Deleuze, Jean-François Lyotard and others), whose work they declare to be incomprehensible or meaningless. They implicate a broad range of fields in this trend, including cultural studies, cultural anthropology, feminist studies, comparative literature, media studies, and science and technology studies. They accuse those postmodernist critics who did actually discuss science of having a limited understanding of it.\n\nUntil the mid-20th century, the philosophy of science had concentrated on the viability of scientific method and knowledge, proposing justifications for the truth of scientific theories and observations and attempting to discover at a philosophical level why science worked. \nKarl Popper, an early opponent of logical positivism in the 20th century, repudiated the classical observationalist/inductivist form of scientific method in favour of empirical falsification. He is also known for his opposition to the classical justificationist account of knowledge which he replaced with critical rationalism, \"the first \"non justificational philosophy of criticism\" in the history of philosophy\".\nHis criticisms of scientific method were adopted by several postmodernist critiques.\n\nA number of 20th-century philosophers maintained that logical models of pure science do not apply to actual scientific practice. It was the publication of Thomas Kuhn's \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\" in 1962, however, which fully opened the study of science to new disciplines by suggesting that the evolution of science was in part sociologically determined and that it did not operate under the simple logical laws put forward by the logical positivist school of philosophy.\n\nKuhn described the development of scientific knowledge not as a linear increase in truth and understanding, but as a series of periodic revolutions which overturned the old scientific order and replaced it with new orders (what he called \"paradigms\"). Kuhn attributed much of this process to the interactions and strategies of the human participants in science rather than its own innate logical structure. (See sociology of scientific knowledge).\n\nSome interpreted Kuhn's ideas to mean that scientific theories were, either wholly or in part, \"social constructs\", which many interpreted as diminishing the claim of science to representing objective reality (though many social constructivists do not put forward this claim), and that reality had a lesser or potentially irrelevant role in the formation of scientific theories. In 1971, Jerome Ravetz published \"Scientific Knowledge and its Social Problems\", a book describing the role that the scientific community, as a social construct, plays in accepting or rejecting objective scientific knowledge.\n\nA number of different philosophical and historical schools, often grouped together as \"postmodernism\", began reinterpreting scientific achievements of the past through the lens of the practitioners, often positing the influence of politics and economics in the development of scientific theories in addition to scientific observations. Rather than being presented as working entirely from positivistic observations, many scientists of the past were scrutinized for their connection to issues of gender, sexual orientation, race, and class. Some more radical philosophers, such as Paul Feyerabend, argued that scientific theories were themselves incoherent and that other forms of knowledge production (such as those used in religion) served the material and spiritual needs of their practitioners with equal validity as did scientific explanations.\n\nImre Lakatos advanced a midway view between the \"postmodernist\" and \"realist\" camps. For Lakatos, scientific knowledge is progressive; however, it progresses not by a strict linear path where every new element builds upon and incorporates every other, but by an approach where a \"core\" of a \"research program\" is established by auxiliary theories which can themselves be falsified or replaced without compromising the core. Social conditions and attitudes affect how strongly one attempts to resist falsification for the core of a program, but the program has an objective status based on its relative explanatory power. Resisting falsification only becomes \"ad-hoc\" and damaging to knowledge when an alternate program with greater explanatory power is rejected in favor of another with less. But because it is changing a theoretical core, which has broad ramifications for other areas of study, accepting a new program is also revolutionary as well as progressive. Thus, for Lakatos the character of science is that of being both revolutionary and progressive; both socially informed and objectively justified.\n\nIn \"\" (1994), the scientists Paul R. Gross and Norman Levitt accused postmodernists of anti-intellectualism, presented the shortcomings of relativism, and suggested that postmodernists knew little about the scientific theories they criticized and practiced poor scholarship for political reasons. \nThe authors insist that the \"science critics\" misunderstood the theoretical approaches they criticized, given their \"caricature, misreading, and condescension, [rather] than argument\". The book sparked the so-called science wars. \"Higher Superstition\" inspired a New York Academy of Sciences conference titled \"The Flight from Science and Reason\", organized by Gross, Levitt, and Gerald Holton. Attendees of the conference were critical of the polemical approach of Gross and Levitt, yet agreed upon the intellectual inconsistency of how laymen, non-scientist, and social studies intellectuals dealt with science.\n\nIn 1996, \"Social Text\", a Duke University publication of postmodern critical theory, compiled a \"Science Wars\" issue containing brief articles by postmodernist academics in the social sciences and the humanities, that emphasized the roles of society and politics in science. In the introduction to the issue, the \"Social Text\" editor, Andrew Ross, said that the attack upon science studies was a conservative reaction to reduced funding for scientific research, characterizing the \"Flight from Science and Reason\" conference as an attempted \"linking together a host of dangerous threats: scientific creationism, New Age alternatives and cults, astrology, UFO-ism, the radical science movement, postmodernism, and critical science studies, alongside the ready-made historical specters of Aryan-Nazi science and the Soviet error of Lysenkoism\" that \"degenerated into name-calling\".\n\nThe historian Dorothy Nelkin characterised Gross and Levitt's vigorous response as a \"call to arms in response to the failed marriage of Science and the State\"—in contrast to the scientists' historical tendency to avoid participating in perceived political threats, such as creation science, the animal rights movement, and anti-abortionists' attempts to curb fetal research. At the end of the Soviet–American Cold War (1945–91), military funding of science declined, while funding agencies demanded accountability, and research became directed by private interests. Nelkin suggested that postmodernist critics were \"convenient scapegoats\" who diverted attention from problems in science.\n\nAlso in 1996, physicist Alan Sokal had submitted an article to \"Social Text\" titled \"Transgressing the Boundaries: Towards a Transformative Hermeneutics of Quantum Gravity\", which proposed that quantum gravity is a linguistic and social construct and that quantum physics supports postmodernist criticisms of scientific objectivity. After holding the article back from earlier issues due to Sokal's refusal to consider revisions, the staff published it in the \"Science Wars\" issue as a relevant contribution. Later, in the May 1996 issue of \"Lingua Franca\", in the article \"A Physicist Experiments With Cultural Studies\", Sokal exposed his parody-article, \"Transgressing the Boundaries\" as an experiment testing the intellectual rigor of an academic journal that would \"publish an article liberally salted with nonsense if (a) it sounded good and (b) it flattered the editors' ideological preconceptions\". The matter became known as the \"Sokal Affair\" and brought greater public attention to the wider conflict.\n\nJacques Derrida, a frequent target of \"anti-relativist\" criticism in the wake of Sokal's article, responded to the hoax in \"Sokal and Bricmont Aren't Serious\", first published in \"Le Monde\". He called Sokal's action sad (\"triste\") for having overshadowed Sokal's mathematical work and ruined the chance to sort out controversies of scientific objectivity in a careful way. Derrida went on to fault him and co-author Jean Bricmont for what he considered an act of intellectual bad faith: they had accused him of scientific incompetence in the English edition of a follow-up book (an accusation several English reviewers noted), but deleted the accusation from the French edition and denied that it had ever existed. He concluded, as the title indicates, that Sokal was not serious in his approach, but had used the spectacle of a \"quick practical joke\" to displace the scholarship Derrida believed the public deserved.\n\nIn the first few years after the 'Science Wars' edition of \"Social Text\", the seriousness and volume of discussion increased significantly, much of it focused on reconciling the 'warring' camps of postmodernists and scientists. One significant event was the 'Science and Its Critics' conference in early 1997; it brought together scientists and scholars who study science, and featured Alan Sokal and Steve Fuller as keynote speakers. The conference generated the final wave of substantial press coverage (in both news media and scientific journals), though by no means resolved the fundamental issues of social construction and objectivity in science.\n\nOther attempts have been made to reconcile the two camps. Mike Nauenberg, a physicist at the University of California, Santa Cruz, organized a small conference in May 1997 that was attended by scientists and sociologists of science alike, among them Alan Sokal, N. David Mermin and Harry Collins. In the same year, Collins organized the Southampton Peace Workshop, which again brought together a broad range of scientists and sociologists. The Peace Workshop gave rise to the idea of a book that intended to map out some of the arguments between the disputing parties. \"The One Culture?: A Conversation about Science\", edited by chemist Jay A. Labinger and sociologist Harry Collins, was eventually published in 2001. The book, the title of which is a reference to C.P. Snow's \"The Two Cultures\", contains contributions from authors such as Alan Sokal, Jean Bricmont, Steven Weinberg and Steven Shapin.\n\nOther important publications related to the science wars include \"Fashionable Nonsense\" by Sokal and Jean Bricmont (1998), \"The Social Construction of What?\" by Ian Hacking (1999) and \"Who Rules in Science\" by James Robert Brown.\n\nTo John C. Baez, the Bogdanov Affair in 2002 served as the bookend to the Sokal controversy: the review, acceptance, and publication of papers, later alleged to be nonsense, in peer-reviewed physics journals. Cornell physics professor Paul Ginsparg, argued that the cases are not at all similar, and that the fact that some journals and scientific institutions have low standards is \"hardly a revelation\". The new editor in chief of the journal \"Annals of Physics\", who was appointed after the controversy along with a new editorial staff, had said that the standards of the journal had been poor leading up to the publication since the previous editor had become sick and died.\n\nInterest in the science wars has waned considerably in recent years. Though the events of the science wars are still occasionally mentioned in mainstream press, they have had little effect on either the scientific community or the community of critical theorists. Both sides continue to maintain that the other does not understand their theories, or mistakes constructive criticisms and scholarly investigations for attacks. As Bruno Latour recently put it, \"Scientists always stomp around meetings talking about 'bridging the two-culture gap', but when scores of people from outside the sciences begin to build just that bridge, they recoil in horror and want to impose the strangest of all gags on free speech since Socrates: only scientists should speak about science!\" Subsequently, Latour has suggested a re-evaluation of sociology's epistemology based on lessons learnt from the Science Wars: \"... scientists made us realize that there was not the slightest chance that the type of social forces we use as a cause could have objective facts as their effects\".\n\nHowever, more recently some of the leading critical theorists have recognized that their critiques have at times been counter-productive, and are providing intellectual ammunition for reactionary interests.\n\nWriting about these developments in the context of global warming, Bruno Latour noted that \"dangerous extremists are using the very same argument of social construction to destroy hard-won evidence that could save our lives. Was I wrong to participate in the invention of this field known as science studies? Is it enough to say that we did not really mean what we said?\"\n\nKendrick Frazier notes that Latour is interested in helping to rebuild trust in science and that Latour has said that some of the authority of science needs to be regained.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42206082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42206082", "title": "Smokers' Rights Party", "text": "Smokers' Rights Party\n\nThe Smokers' Rights Party was a registered political party in Australia from 2013 until September 2017.\n\nThe party was created in order to feed preferences to David Leyonhjelm of the Liberal Democratic Party. With the abolition of group voting tickets in 2016, the Smokers' Rights Party was no longer able to act as a preference feeder, and published a statement recommending that supporters vote for Leyonhjelm in the Senate. It was formally deregistered in September 2017.\n\nThe Smokers' Rights Party states that it does not receive funding from the tobacco industry. Despite this, the Liberal Democrats do, having received at least $35000 from Philip Morris in the 2013-2014 financial year.\n\nSmokers Rights fielded only one candidate in the 2016 federal election. This was Joaquim De Lima as a candidate for the Division of Fowler in the House of Representatives. De Lima had previously run as a candidate for the Outdoor Recreation Party (NSW 2011 for Penrith, 2013 Senate NSW, 2014 senate WA, 2015 NSW upper house), and the Liberal Democrats (Federal 2010 for Greenway).\n\n"}
{"id": "53042476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53042476", "title": "South-South cooperation in science", "text": "South-South cooperation in science\n\nSouth-South cooperation is cooperation between two or more developing countries. This article monitors recent developments in South-South cooperation in the field of science and technology.\n\nRegional economic communities have become a conduit for South–South cooperation in science, technology and innovation. Many of these economic communities have taken inspiration from the European Union model.\n\nIncreasingly, the long-term economic plans adopted by regional communities in the South are accompanied by a policy or strategy for science. For instance, the Policy on Science and Technology (ECOPOST) adopted in 2011 by the Economic Community of West African States’ (ECOWAS) ‘is an integral part of Vision 2020’, the subregion’s development blueprint to 2020.\n\nIt has been argued that ‘the increasingly urgent requirement is for Africa to engage in a unified manner in a world that is increasingly characterized by economic blocs and large emerging economic powers’ and that ‘the most formidable obstacle of all to regional integration [in Africa] is probably the resistance of individual governments to relinquishing any national sovereignty’.\n\nThe President of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and former chair of the Caribbean Common Market (Caricom), Ralph Consalves, echoed this sentiment in a speech he gave in 2013. ‘It is evident… that our region would find it more difficult by far to address its immense current and prospective challenges, unless its governments and peoples embrace strongly a more mature, more profound regionalism’. \n\nThe mood in sub-Saharan Africa is clearly towards greater regional integration. However, economic integration is being hampered by the similar structure of economies (minerals and agriculture), poor economic diversification and low levels of intraregional trade: just 12% of total African trade, compared to about 55% in Asia and 70% in Europe. Science is seen as a way of fostering regional economic integration, as it will enable countries to diversify their economies and develop intraregional trade. \n\nThe continent is currently preparing the groundwork for the African Economic Community, which is to be in place by 2028. To this end, regional communities are consolidating ties. The five members of the East African Community (Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda), for instance, formed a common market in 2010. They plan to establish a common currency by 2023 and are developing a Common Higher Education Area that has been inspired by the European Union model. In 2015, the East African Community signed a Tripartite Free Trade Agreement with the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa grouping 20 states and the SADC grouping 15 states.\n\nThe Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC) was founded in 1992, shortly after the distantegration of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, in order to develop prosperity and security in the region. One of its goals is to deepen ties with the European Commission in Brussels. The Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs is the BSEC's central decision-making body. There is also a Parliamentary Assembly modelled on the Council of Europe and a Permanent International Secretariat, based in Istanbul. The BSEC has a Business Council made up of experts and representatives of Chambers of Commerce from the member states and a Black Sea Trade and Development Bank which receives support from the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.\n\nThe Union of South American Nations (UNASUR).only became a legal entity in 2011. Like others before it, UNASUR is modelled on the European Union and, thus, embraces the free movement of goods, services, capital and people among its 12 members. UNASUR plans to establish a common parliament and currency. Governments have also been discussing the idea of standardizing university degrees in member countries. Rather than creating other new institutions, UNASUR plans to rely on existing trade blocs like the Common Market for the South (Mercosur) and the Andean Community.\n\nSome voices from within the Gulf have suggested transforming the Gulf Cooperation Council into a regional socio-economic and political bloc that would also be modelled on the European Union.\n\nThe East African Community’s Common Market Protocol (2010) makes provision for market-led research, the promotion of industrial research and the transfer, acquisition, adaptation and development of modern technology. States are encouraged to collaborate with the East African Science and Technology Commission and to establish a research and technological development fund for the purpose of implementing the provisions in the protocol.\n\nThe Strategic Plan for the Caribbean Community 2015–2019 proposes reinforcing regional integration by adopting a common foreign policy and embracing research and innovation. To improve co-ordination among the four existing regional organizations (Caribbean Science Foundation, Cariscience, Caribbean Academy of Sciences and Caribbean Council for Science and Technology), the Prime Minister of Grenada, Keith Mitchell, who is also responsible for science and technology within Caricom, set up the Caricom Science, Technology and Innovation Committee in 2014.\n\nEven though the focus of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) has always been on the creation of a single market along the lines of the European model, ‘leaders have long acknowledged that successful economic integration will hinge on how well member states manage to assimilate science and technology’. When ASEAN’s Vision 2020 was adopted in 1997, its stated goal ‘was for the region to be technologically competitive by 2020’.\n\nASEAN’s Plan of Action on Science, Technology and Innovation 2016–2020 ‘aims to strengthen scientific capacity in member states by fostering exchanges among researchers both within the region and beyond’. The new ASEAN Economic Community is expected to spur scientific cooperation among member countries, while enhancing the role of the ASEAN University Network, which already counts 30 members.\n\nThe Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC) has adopted three Action Plans on Cooperation in Science and Technology (2005-2009, 2010-2014 and 2014-2018). The second Action Plan was funded on a project basis, since the plan had no dedicated budget. Two key projects were funded by the European Union in 2008 and 2009, namely the Scientific and Technological International Cooperation Network for Eastern European and Central Asian Countries (IncoNet EECA) and the Networking on Science and Technology in the Black Sea Region project (BS-ERA-Net).\n\nNot all the more established regional economic communities have enjoyed the same level of success. For instance, ‘since its inception in 1985, the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) has failed to emulate the success of [ASEAN] in fostering regional integration in trade and other areas, including in science, technology and innovation... South Asia remains one of the world’s least economically integrated regions, with intraregional trade accounting for merely 5% of total trade’.\n\nThe South Asian University, which opened its doors in 2010 with the intention of becoming a centre of excellence, is the exception which confirms the rule. The university is hosted by India but all SAARC members share the operational costs in mutually agreed proportions. Admission is governed by a quota system, with students paying heavily subsidized tuition fees. In 2013, the university received 4 133 applications from all eight SAARC countries (Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Pakistan), double the number in 2012. There were 500 applications alone for the 10 places on offer for the doctoral programme in biotechnology.\n\nIn other regions, some strategies have encountered hurdles that may affect implementation. This is the case of the Protocol on Science, Technology and Innovation, for instance; it was adopted by all 15 members of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) in 2008 but, by 2015, had only been ratified by four: Botswana, Mauritius, Mozambique and South Africa. The protocol was able to enter into force in June 2017, once two-thirds of member states had ratified it. Although the South African Department of Science and Technology described the protocol, in a 2011 briefing, as ‘an essential first step towards regional integration, with steady growth in self-financed bilateral cooperation’, it also found the regional desk for science, technology and innovation to be ‘under-resourced and mostly ineffectual’, making ‘member states reluctant to support it’.\n\nBSEC's Third Action Plan on Science and Technology 2014-2018 acknowledges that considerable effort has been devoted to setting up a Black Sea Research Programme involving both BSEC and European Union members but also that, ‘in a period of scarce public funding, the research projects the Project Development Fund could support will decrease and, as a result, its impact will be limited. Additional efforts are needed to find a solution for the replenishment of the Project Development Fund’.\n\nThe current roadmap for the Arab region is the Arab Strategy for Science, Technology and Innovation. It was endorsed in 2014 by the Council of Ministers of Higher Education and Scientific Research in the Arab World. The Strategy urges countries to engage in greater international cooperation in 14 scientific disciplines and strategic economic sectors, including nuclear energy, space sciences and convergent technologies such as bio-informatics and nanobiotechnology. ‘The Strategy nevertheless eludes some core issues, including the delicate question of who will foot the hefty bill of implementing' it.\n\nThe Arab States in Asia experienced the fastest growth in international scientific collaboration (+199%) of any region between 2008 and 2014. Five developing Arab economies count one or more developing countries among their top five partners: Iraq (Malaysia and China), Libya (India), Oman (India), Palestine (Egypt and Malaysia) and Yemen (Malaysia and Egypt).\n\nThe Gulf Cooperation Council has encouraged its members to diversify their economies for the past 30 years, during which time Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have all developed non-oil sectors. The United Arab Emirates has been advocating the creation of a pan-Arab space agency for years. Together with the Korean company Satrec Initiative, the Emirates Institution for Advanced Science and Technology placed its first Earth-observation satellite in orbit in 2009, followed by a second in 2013 and, if all goes according to plan, a third in 2017.\n\nCountries of the South are collaborating in fields with industrial potential. One interesting example within the Mercosur space (Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay and Venezuela) is the Biotech project. It has been designed to take better advantage of existing research skills to foster competitiveness in productive sectors. The second phase, Biotech II, addresses regional projects in biotechnological innovation linked to human health (diagnosis, prevention and the development of vaccines against infectious diseases, cancer, type 2 diabetes and autoimmune diseases) and biomass production (traditional and non-traditional crops), biofuel elaboration processes and evaluation of its by-products. New criteria have been incorporated to respond to demand from participating consortia for a greater return on investment and the participation of more partners, such as from Europe.\n\nBio-industry is also the focus of the Innovative Biotechnologies Programme (2011–2015), which was established by the Eurasian Economic Community (since superseded by the Eurasian Economic Union in January 2015). Within this programme, prizes were awarded at an annual bio-industry exhibition and conference. In 2012, 86 Russian organizations participated, plus three from Belarus, one from Kazakhstan and three from Tajikistan, as well as two scientific research groups from Germany.It is noteworthy that an oil-rent economy like Kazakhstan participated in this programme. For Vladimir Debabov, Scientific Director of the Genetika State Research Institute for Genetics and the Selection of Industrial Micro-organisms in the Russian Federation, ‘in the world today, there is a strong tendency to switch from petrochemicals to renewable biological sources. Biotechnology is developing two to three times faster than chemicals.’\n\nIn 2013, the Russian, Belarusian and Kazakh governments pooled their resources to create a Centre for Innovative Technologies. Selected projects sponsored by the centre are entitled to funding of US$3–90 million each and are implemented within a public–private partnership. The first few projects approved focused on supercomputers, space technologies, medicine, petroleum recycling, nanotechnologies and the ecological use of natural resources. Once these initial projects have spawned viable commercial products, it is planned to reinvest the profits in new projects.\n\nNanotechnology is a focus of South–South cooperation led by Iran. In 2008, Iran’s Nanotechnology Initiative Council established an Econano network to promote the scientific and industrial development of nanotechnology among fellow members of the Economic Cooperation Organization, namely Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.\n\nBilateral scientific cooperation, too, can often have an industrial focus. India and Sri Lanka, for instance, set up a Joint Committee on Science and Technology in 2011, along with an Indo-Sri Lankan Joint Research Programme. The first call for proposals in 2012 covered research topics in food science and technology; applications of nuclear technology; oceanography and Earth science; biotechnology and pharmaceuticals; materials science; medical research, including traditional medical systems; and spatial data infrastructure and space science. Two bilateral workshops were held in 2013 to discuss potential research collaboration on transdermal drug delivery systems and clinical, diagnostic, chemotherapeutic and entomological aspects of Leishmaniasis, a disease prevalent in both India and Sri Lanka that is transmitted to humans through the bite of infected sandflies.\n\nThe BRICS (Brazil, Russian Federation, India, China and South Africa) tend to engage in bilateral collaboration on scientific projects. There is ‘dynamic bilateral collaboration’ between China and the Russian Federation, for instance. This cooperation stems from the Treaty on Good Neighbourliness, Friendship and Co-operation signed by the two countries in 2001, which has given rise to regular four-year plans for its implementation. Dozens of joint large-scale projects are being carried out. They concern the construction of the first super-high-voltage electricity transmission line in China; the development of an experimental fast neutron reactor; geological prospecting in the Russian Federation and China; and joint research in optics, metal processing, hydraulics, aerodynamics and solid fuel cells. Other priority areas for co-operation include industrial and medical lasers, computer technology, energy, the environment and chemistry, geochemistry, catalytic processes and new materials.\n\nThe Russian Federation and China are also cooperating in the field of satellite navigation, through a project involving Glonass (the Russian equivalent of GPS) and Beidou (the regional Chinese satellite navigation system). They have also embarked on a joint study of the planets of our Solar System. A resident company of the Skolkovo Innovation Centre, Optogard Nanotech (Russian) signed a long-term deal with the Chinese Shandong Trustpipe Industry Group in 2014 to promote Russian technologies in China. In 2014, Moscow State University, the Russian Venture Company and the China Construction Investment Corporation (Chzhoda) also signed an agreement to upscale cooperation in developing technologies for ‘smart homes’ and ‘smart’ cities’.\n\nThe UNESCO Science Report observes that ‘we are seeing a shift in Russo–Chinese collaboration from knowledge and project exchanges to joint work'. Since 2003, joint technoparks have been operating in the Chinese cities of Harbin, Changchun and Yantai, among others. Within these technoparks, there are plans to manufacture civilian and military aircraft, space vehicles, gas turbines and other large equipment using cutting-edge innovation, as well as to mass-produce Russian technologies developed by the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences. One new priority theme for high-tech co-operation concerns the joint development of a new long-range civil aircraft.\n\nThe China–Brazil Earth Resources Satellites (CBERS) programme embraces a family of remote-sensing satellites built jointly by Brazil and China which provide coverage of the world´s land areas. CBERS-1 functioned from October 1999 to July 2003, CBERS-2 from October 2003 to June 2008 and CBERS-2B from September 2007 to May 2010. CBERS-3 was launched in 2011 and CBERS-4 in 2014. CBERS-3 and CBERS-4 are each equipped with four cameras with bands in visible, near-infrared, middle and thermal infrared Brazil and China share the responsibility for, and cost of, building the satellites. In Brazil, the National Institute for Space Research (INPE) designs half of the subsystems and contracts them to the Brazilian space industry. As of 2010, the Brazilian participation in the programme amounted to a total cost of about US$ 500 million, with 60% of investment taking the form of industrial contracts. Data obtained from the CBERS satellites are released within a free and open data policy. From 2004 to 2010, more than 1.5 million images were delivered to users in Brazil, Latin America and China. These images have applications in forestry and agriculture assessment, urban management and geological mapping. Brazil uses the images to survey deforestation in Amazonia and to assess land use associated with cash crops such as sugarcane and soybeans and with large-scale cattle ranching. China and Brazil have agreed on a joint strategy for facilitating international access to remotesensing data in Africa. Since 2012, African ground stations in South Africa, the Canary Islands, Egypt, and Gabonhave been receiving CBERS data which they are entitled to share. The CBERS programme thus enables Brazil and China to contribute to global environmental policy-making.\n\nThe joint Argentinian–Brazilian SABIA-MAR Earth observation satellite mission will be studying ocean ecosystems, carbon cycling, marine habitats mapping, coasts and coastal hazards, inland waters and fisheries. Also under development in 2015 was the new SARE series designed to expand the active remote observation of Earth through the use of microwave and optical radars.\n\nA central strategy of Africa’s Science and Technology Consolidated Plan of Action (CPA) for 2005–2014 was to establish networks of centres of excellence across the continent. A decade on, these centres are one of the plan’s success stories, according to an expert review of the CPA.\n\nMost of these networks focus on biosciences. Four networks of centres of excellence have been established in Egypt, Kenya, Senegal and South Africa within the African Biosciences Initiative, whereby participating institutes offer their facilities for subregional use.Two complementary networks based in Kenya and Burkina Faso focus on improving agricultural techniques and developing agro-processing, in the case of Bio-Innovate, and on helping regulators deal with safety issues related to the introduction and development of genetically modified organisms, in the case of the African Biosafety Network of Expertise.\n\nA network of five African Institutes of Mathematical Sciences has also taken root. The first one opened in South Africa in 2003 and the remainder in Senegal, Ghana, Cameroon and Tanzania between 2012 and 2014. Each offers postgraduate education, research and outreach. The plan now is for a vast network of 15 such centres across Africa, within a scheme known as the Next Einstein Initiative. The Government of Canada made a US$20 million investment in the project in 2010 and numerous governments in Africa and Europe have followed suit.\n\nThese networks have an Achilles tendon, though, since many are reliant on donor funding for their survival. The biosciences hub in Kenya for East and Central Africa, for instance, relies on support from the Australian, Canadian and Swedish governments, as well as from partners such as the Syngenta Foundation for Sustainable Agriculture and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. A 2014 evaluation concluded that the hub remained ‘financially vulnerable’.\n\n‘With hardly any African governments having raised domestic research spending to the target level of 1% of GDP, more than 90% of funding mobilized for implementation of the CPA came from bilateral and multilateral donors’, concluded the expert review of the CPA. The review also noted that ‘the failure to set up the African Science and Technology Fund was one of the landmark and visible weaknesses in implementation of the CPA’. Although the continent’s roadmap for the next decade, the Science, Technology and Innovation Strategy for Africa to 2024 (STISA-2024), considers it ‘urgent to set up such a fund’, it identifies no specific funding mechanism – even though STISA ‘places science, technology and innovation at the epicentre of Africa’s socio-economic development and growth’.\n\nIn 2012, the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) designated 14 centres of excellence in member countries, namely Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger and Togo. This label entitles these institutions to financial support from WAEMU for a two-year period. ECOWAS intends to establish several centres of excellence of its own on a competitive basis, within its own Policy on Science and Technology (ECOPOST).\n\nSouth Africa is a regional powerhouse, since it alone generates about one-quarter of African GDP. In 2012, South Africa invested in more new projects across the continent than any other country in the world.\n\nThrough the Department of Science and Technology, South Africa has entered into 21 formal bilateral agreements with other African countries in science and technology since 1997, most recently with Ethiopia and Sudan in 2014. Within three-year joint implementation plans which define spheres of common interest, cooperation tends to take the form of joint research calls and capacity-building through information- and infrastructure-sharing, workshops, student exchanges, development assistance and so on.\n\nSpace science and technology are a focus of bilateral cooperation for 10 out of the 21 countries. In 2012, South Africa and Australia won a bid to build the world’s largest radio telescope, the Square Kilometre Array (SKA), at a cost of €1.5 billion. South Africa is working with eight African partners in this area, six of them from within the SADC: Botswana, Madagascar, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia and Zambia. The other two are Ghana and Kenya.\n\nThrough the African SKA Human Capital Development Programme, South Africa has also been co-operating with other SADC countries in skills training since 2005. In 2012, the programme awarded about 400 grants for studies in astronomy and engineering from undergraduate to postdoctoral levels, while also investing in training programmes for technicians. Courses in astronomy are being taught in Kenya, Madagascar, Mauritius and Mozambique.\n\nThis work is complemented by an agreement signed in 2009 between Algeria, Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa for the construction of three low-Earth orbiting satellites within the African Resource Management Constellation (ARMC). South Africa will build at least one out of the three, construction of which (ZA-ARMC1) began in 2013. This cooperation should develop Africa’s technological and human capacities in Earth observation, for use in urban planning, land cover mapping, disaster prediction and monitoring, water management, oil and gas pipeline monitoring and so on.\n\nTable: South Africa's bilateral scientific cooperation in Africa, 2015\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>partner of African Very Long Baseline Interferometry Network and of Square Kilometre Array\n\nSource: UNESCO Science Report: towards 2030 (2015), Table 20.6, based on data from South African Department of Science and Technology\n\nIncreasingly, countries of the South are fostering cooperation in science and technology through regional or international centres. Many of these centres function under the auspices of United Nations agencies. The following are some examples.\n\nThe International Science, Technology and Innovation Centre for South–South Cooperation (ISTIC) was set up in Malaysia in 2008 under the auspices of UNESCO. In 2014, Cariscience ‘pushed back its boundaries’ by running a training workshop in Tobago on Technopreneurship for the Caribbean, in partnership with ISTIC.\n\nSince 2011, China has set up two centres which function under the auspices of UNESCO. The first is the Regional Training and Research Centre on Ocean Dynamics and Climate, which has been training young scientists from Asian developing countries, in particular, since 2011, at no cost to the beneficiary. The second is the International Research and Training Centre for Science and Technology Strategy, inaugurated in Beijing in September 2012. It designs and conducts international co-operative research and training programmes in such areas as indicators and statistical analysis, technology foresight and roadmapping, financing policies for innovation, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and strategies for addressing climate change and sustainable development.\n\nIndia hosts the Regional Centre for Biotechnology, the first of its kind in South Asia. Established under the auspices of UNESCO in 2006, the centre is part of the Biotech Science Cluster being built in Faridabad by the Department of Biotechnology. It offers specialized training and research programmes in new opportunity areas, such as cell and tissue engineering, nanobiotechnology and bioinformatics, with an emphasis on interdisciplinarity.\n\nIn 2012, an International Centre for Biotechnology was established under the auspices of UNESCO at the University of Nigeria in Nsukka. The institute provides high-level training (including at subregional level), education and research, particularly in areas related to food security, conservation of harvested crops, gene banking and tropical diseases.\n\nThe West Africa Institute is the fruit of a public–private partnership involving ECOWAS, the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU), UNESCO, the pan-African Ecobank and the Government of Cabo Verde. This think tank was established in Praia (Cabo Verde) in 2010, to provide the missing link between policy and research in the regional integration process. The institute is a service provider, conducting research for regional and national public institutions, the private sector, civil society and the media.\n\nIran hosts several international research centres, including the following, which function under the auspices of United Nations bodies: the Regional Centre for Science Park and Technology Incubator Development (UNESCO, est. 2010), the International Centre on Nanotechnology (UNIDO, est. 2012) and the Regional Educational and Research Centre for Oceanography for Western Asia (UNESCO, est. 2014).\n\nIran is one of nine members of a new centre which uses Synchrotron-light for Experimental Science and Applications in the Middle East (SESAME). Most of the other eight members are developing economies: Bahrain, Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Pakistan, the Palestinian Authority and Turkey.\n\nSESAME’s mission is to provide a world-class research facility for the region, while fostering international scientific cooperation. SESAME was established under the auspices of UNESCO before becoming a fully independent intergovernmental organization in its own right. Construction of the centre began in Jordan in 2003. Now fully operational, the centre is being officially inaugurated in May 2017.\n\nSynchrotrons have become an indispensable tool for modern science. They work by accelerating electrons around a circular tube at high speed, during which time excess energy is given off in the form of light. The light source acts like a super X-ray machine and can be used by researchers to study everything from viruses and new drugs to novel materials and archaeological artefacts. There are some 50 such storage-ring based synchrotrons in use around the world. Although the majority are found in high-income countries, Brazil and China also have them.\n"}
{"id": "1636042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1636042", "title": "Spa", "text": "Spa\n\nA spa is a location where mineral-rich spring water (and sometimes seawater) is used to give medicinal baths. Spa towns or spa resorts (including hot springs resorts) typically offer various health treatments, which are also known as balneotherapy. The belief in the curative powers of mineral waters goes back to prehistoric times. Such practices have been popular worldwide, but are especially widespread in Europe and Japan. Day spas are also quite popular, and offer various personal care treatments.\n\nThe term is derived from the name of the town of Spa, Belgium, whose name is known back from Roman times, when the location was called \"Aquae Spadanae\", sometimes incorrectly connected to the Latin word \"spargere\" meaning to scatter, sprinkle or moisten.\n\nSince medieval times, illnesses caused by iron deficiency were treated by drinking chalybeate (iron-bearing) spring water (in 1326, the iron-master Collin le Loup claimed a cure, when the spring was called \"Espa\", a Walloon word for \"fountain\").\n\nIn 16th-century England, the old Roman ideas of medicinal bathing were revived at towns like Bath (\"not\" the source of the word bath), and in 1596 William Slingsby who had been to the Belgian town (which he called \"Spaw\") discovered a chalybeate spring in Yorkshire. He built an enclosed well at what became known as Harrogate, the first resort in England for drinking medicinal waters, then in 1596 Dr Timothy Bright after discovering a second well called the resort \"The English Spaw\", beginning the use of the word \"Spa\" as a generic description.\n\nIt is commonly claimed, in a commercial context, that the word is an acronym of various Latin phrases, such as \"salus per aquam\" or \"sanitas per aquam\", meaning \"health through water\". This is very unlikely: the derivation does not appear before the early 21st century and is probably a backronym as there is no evidence of acronyms passing into the language before the 20th century; nor does it match the known Roman name for the location.\n\nSpa therapies have existed since the classical times when taking bath with water was considered as a popular means to treat illnesses. The practice of traveling to hot or cold springs in hopes of effecting a cure of some ailment dates back to prehistoric times. Archaeological investigations near hot springs in France and Czech Republic revealed Bronze Age weapons and offerings. In Great Britain, ancient legend credited early Celtic kings with the discovery of the hot springs in Bath, England.\n\nMany people around the world believed that bathing in a particular spring, well, or river resulted in physical and spiritual purification. Forms of ritual purification existed among the Native Americans, Babylonians, Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans. Today, ritual purification through water can be found in the religious ceremonies of Jews, Muslims, Christians, Buddhists, and Hindus. These ceremonies reflect the ancient belief in the healing and purifying properties of water. Complex bathing rituals were also practiced in ancient Egypt, in prehistoric cities of the Indus Valley, and in Aegean civilizations. Most often these ancient people did little building construction around the water, and what they did construct was very temporary in nature.\n\nSome of the earliest descriptions of western bathing practices came from Greece. The Greeks began bathing regimens that formed the foundation for modern spa procedures. These Aegean people utilized small bathtubs, wash basins, and foot baths for personal cleanliness. The earliest such findings are the baths in the palace complex at Knossos, Crete, and the luxurious alabaster bathtubs excavated in Akrotiri, Santorini; both date from the mid-2nd millennium BC. They established public baths and showers within their gymnasium complexes for relaxation and personal hygiene. Greek mythology specified that certain natural springs or tidal pools were blessed by the gods to cure disease. Around these sacred pools, Greeks established bathing facilities for those desiring healing. Supplicants left offerings to the gods for healing at these sites and bathed themselves in hopes of a cure. The Spartans developed a primitive vapor bath. At Serangeum, an early Greek \"balneum\" (bathhouse, loosely translated), bathing chambers were cut into the hillside from which the hot springs issued. A series of niches cut into the rock above the chambers held bathers' clothing. One of the bathing chambers had a decorative mosaic floor depicting a driver and chariot pulled by four horses, a woman followed by two dogs, and a dolphin below. Thus, the early Greeks used the natural features, but expanded them and added their own amenities, such as decorations and shelves. During later Greek civilization, bathhouses were often built in conjunction with athletic fields.\nThe Romans emulated many of the Greek bathing practices. Romans surpassed the Greeks in the size and complexity of their baths. This came about by many factors: the larger size and population of Roman cities, the availability of running water following the building of aqueducts, and the invention of cement, which made building large edifices easier, safer, and cheaper. As in Greece, the Roman bath became a focal center for social and recreational activity. As the Roman Empire expanded, the idea of the public bath spread to all parts of the Mediterranean and into regions of Europe and North Africa. With the construction of the aqueducts, the Romans had enough water not only for domestic, agricultural, and industrial uses, but also for their leisurely pursuits. The aqueducts provided water that was later heated for use in the baths. Today, the extent of the Roman bath is revealed at ruins and in archaeological excavations in Europe, Africa, and the Middle East.\n\nThe Romans also developed baths in their colonies, taking advantage of the natural hot springs occurring in Europe to construct baths at Aix and Vichy in France, Bath and Buxton in England, Aachen and Wiesbaden in Germany, Baden, Austria, and Aquincum in Hungary, among other locations. These baths became centers for recreational and social activities in Roman communities. Libraries, lecture halls, gymnasiums, and formal gardens became part of some bath complexes. In addition, the Romans used the hot thermal waters to relieve their suffering from rheumatism, arthritis, and overindulgence in food and drink. The decline of the Roman Empire in the west, beginning in AD 337 after the death of Emperor Constantine, resulted in Roman legions abandoning their outlying provinces and leaving the baths to be taken over by the local population or destroyed.\n\nThus, the Romans elevated bathing to a fine art, and their bathhouses physically reflected these advancements. The Roman bath, for instance, included a far more complex ritual than a simple immersion or sweating procedure. The various parts of the bathing ritual — undressing, bathing, sweating, receiving a massage, and resting — required separated rooms which the Romans built to accommodate those functions. The segregation of the sexes and the additions of diversions not directly related to bathing also had direct impacts on the shape and form of bathhouses. The elaborate Roman bathing ritual and its resultant architecture served as precedents for later European and American bathing facilities. Formal garden spaces and opulent architectural arrangement equal to those of the Romans reappeared in Europe by the end of the 18th century. Major American spas followed suit a century later.\n\nWith the decline of the Roman Empire, the public baths often became places of licentious behavior, and such use was responsible for the spread rather than the cure of diseases. A general belief developed among the European populace was that frequent bathing promoted disease and sickness. Medieval church authorities encouraged this belief and made every effort to close down public baths. Ecclesiastical officials believed that public bathing created an environment open to immorality and disease. Roman Catholic Church officials even banned public bathing in an unsuccessful effort to halt syphilis epidemics from sweeping Europe. Overall, this period represented a time of decline for public bathing.\n\nPeople continued to seek out a few select hot and cold springs, believed to be holy wells, to cure various ailments. In an age of religious fervor, the benefits of the water were attributed to God or one of the saints. In 1326, Collin le Loup, an iron-master from Liège, Belgium, discovered the chalybeate springs of Spa, Belgium. Around these springs, a famous health resort eventually grew and the term \"spa\" came to refer to any health resort located near natural springs. During this period, individual springs became associated with the specific ailment that they could allegedly benefit.\n\nBathing procedures during this period varied greatly. By the 16th century, physicians at Karlsbad, Bohemia, prescribed that the mineral water be taken internally as well as externally. Patients periodically bathed in warm water for up to 10 or 11 hours while drinking glasses of mineral water. The first bath session occurred in the morning, the second in the afternoon. This treatment lasted several days until skin pustules formed and broke resulting in the draining of \"poisons\" considered to be the source of the disease. Then followed another series of shorter, hotter baths to wash the infection away and close the eruptions.\n\nIn the English coastal town of Scarborough in 1626, a Mrs. Elizabeth Farrow discovered a stream of acidic water running from one of the cliffs to the south of the town. This was deemed to have beneficial health properties and gave birth to Scarborough Spa. Dr Wittie's book about the spa waters published in 1660 attracted a flood of visitors to the town. Sea bathing was added to the cure, and Scarborough became Britain's first seaside resort. The first rolling bathing machines for bathers are recorded on the sands in 1735.\n\nIn the 17th century, most upper-class Europeans washed their clothes with water often and washed only their faces (with linen), feeling that bathing the entire body was a lower-class activity; but the upper-class slowly began changing their attitudes toward bathing as a way to restore health later in that century. The wealthy flocked to health resorts to drink and bathe in the waters. In 1702, Anne, Queen of Great Britain, traveled to Bath, the former Roman development, to bathe. A short time later, Richard (Beau) Nash came to Bath. By the force of his personality, Nash became the arbiter of good taste and manners in England. He along with financier Ralph Allen and architect John Wood transformed Bath from a country spa into the social capital of England. Bath set the tone for other spas in Europe to follow. Ostensibly, the wealthy and famous arrived there on a seasonal basis to bathe in and drink the water; however, they also came to display their opulence. Social activities at Bath included dances, concerts, playing cards, lectures, and promenading down the street.\n\nA typical day at Bath might be an early morning communal bath followed by a private breakfast party. Afterwards, one either drank water at the Pump Room (a building constructed over the thermal water source) or attended a fashion show. Physicians encouraged health resort patrons to bathe in and drink the waters with equal vigor. The next several hours of the day could be spent in shopping, visiting the lending library, attending concerts, or stopping at one of the coffeehouses. At 4:00 pm, the rich and famous dressed up in their finery and promenaded down the streets. Next came dinner, more promenading, and an evening of dancing or gambling.\n\nSimilar activities occurred in health resorts throughout Europe. The spas became stages on which Europeans paraded with great pageantry. These resorts became infamous as places full of gossip and scandals. The various social and economic classes selected specific seasons during the year's course, staying from one to several months, to vacation at each resort. One season aristocrats occupied the resorts; at other times, prosperous farmers or retired military men took the baths. The wealthy and the criminals that preyed on them moved from one spa to the next as the fashionable season for that resort changed.\n\nDuring the 18th century, a revival in the medical uses of spring water was promoted by Enlightened physicians across Europe. This revival changed the way of taking a spa treatment. For example, in Karlsbad the accepted method of drinking the mineral water required sending large barrels to individual boardinghouses where the patients drank physician-prescribed dosages in the solitude of their rooms. Dr. David Beecher in 1777 recommended that the patients come to the fountainhead for the water and that each patient should first do some prescribed exercises. This innovation increased the medicinal benefits obtained and gradually physical activity became part of the European bathing regimen. In 1797, in England, Dr. James Currie published \"The Effects of Water, Cold and Warm, as a Remedy in Fever and other Diseases\". As shown by M D Eddy, this book, along with numerous local pamphlets on composition of spa water, stimulated additional interest in water cures and advocated the external and internal use of water as part of the curing process.\n\nIn the 19th century, bathing became a more accepted practice as physicians realized some of the benefits that cleanliness could provide. A cholera epidemic in Liverpool, England in 1842 resulted in a sanitation renaissance, facilitated by the overlapping hydropathy and sanitation movements, and the implementation of a series of statutes known collectively as \"The Baths and Wash-houses Acts 1846 to 1896\". The result was increased facilities for bathing and washed clothes, and more people participating in these activities.\n\nAlso in 1842, a house in Cincinnati, Ohio, received the first indoor bathtub in the United States. Bathing, however, was still not a universal custom. Only one year later — in 1843 — bathing between 1 November and 15 March was outlawed in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, as a health measure, and in 1845 bathing was banned in Boston, Massachusetts, unless under the direct orders of a physician. The situation improved, however, and by 1867 in Philadelphia most houses of the well-to-do had tubs and indoor plumbing. In England, hot showers were installed in barracks and schools by the 1880s. The taboos against bathing disappeared with advancements in medical science; the worldwide medical community was even promoting the benefits of bathing. In addition, the Victorian taste for the exotic lent itself perfectly to seeking out the curative powers of thermal water.\n\nIn most instances, the formal architectural development of European spas took place in the 18th and 19th centuries. The architecture of Bath, England, developed along Georgian and Neoclassical lines, generally following Palladian structures. The most important architectural form that emerged was the \"crescent\" — a semi-elliptical street plan used in many areas of England. The spa architecture of Carlsbad, Marienbad, Franzensbad, and Baden-Baden was primarily Neoclassical, but the literature seems to indicate that large bathhouses were not constructed until well into the 19th century. The emphasis on drinking the waters rather than bathing in them led to the development of separate structures known as \"Trinkhallen\" (drinking halls) where those taking the cure spent hours drinking water from the springs.\n\nBy the mid-19th century, the situation had changed dramatically. Visitors to the European spas began to stress bathing in addition to drinking the waters. Besides fountains, pavilions, and Trinkhallen, bathhouses on the scale of the Roman baths were revived. Photographs of a 19th-century spa complex taken in the 1930s, detailing the earlier architecture, show a heavy use of mosaic floors, marble walls, classical statuary, arched openings, domed ceilings, segmental arches, triangular pediments, Corinthian columns, and all the other trappings of a Neoclassical revival. The buildings were usually separated by function — with the \"Trinkhalle\", the bathhouse, the inhalatorium (for inhaling the vapors), and the \"Kurhaus\" or \"Conversationhaus\" that was the center of social activity. Baden-Baden featured golf courses and tennis courts, \"superb roads to motor over, and drives along quaint lanes where wild deer are as common as cows to us, and almost as unafraid\".\n\nThe European spa, then, started with structures to house the drinking function — from simple fountains to pavilions to elaborate Trinkhallen. The enormous bathhouses came later in the 19th century as a renewed preference for an elaborate bathing ritual to cure ills and improve health came into vogue. European architects looked back to Roman civilizations and carefully studied its fine architectural precedents. The Europeans copied the same formality, symmetry, division of rooms by function, and opulent interior design in their bathhouses. They emulated the fountains and formal garden spaces in their resorts, and they also added new diversions. The tour books always mentioned the roomy, woodsy offerings in the vicinity and the faster-paced evening diversions.\n\nBy the beginning of the 19th century, the European bathing regimen consisted of numerous accumulated traditions. The bathing routine included soaking in hot water, drinking the water, steaming in a vapor room, and relaxing in a cooling room. In addition doctors ordered that patients be douched with hot or cold water and given a select diet to promote a cure. Authors began writing guidebooks to the health resorts of Europe explaining the medical benefits and social amenities of each. Rich Europeans and Americans traveled to these resorts to take in cultural activities and the baths.\n\nEach European spa began offering similar cures while maintaining a certain amount of individuality. The 19th-century bathing regimen at Karlsbad can serve as a general portrayal of European bathing practices during this century. Visitors arose at 6 am to drink the water and be serenaded by a band. Next came a light breakfast, bath, and lunch. The doctors at Karlsbad usually limited patients to certain foods for each meal. In the afternoon, visitors went sight-seeing or attended concerts. Nightly theatrical performances followed the evening meal. This ended around 9 pm with the patients returning to their boardinghouses to sleep until 6 the next morning. This regimen continued for as long as a month and then the patients returned home until the next year. Other 19th-century European spa regimens followed similar schedules.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, European spas combined a strict diet and exercise regimen with a complex bathing procedure to achieve benefits for the patients. One example will suffice to illustrate the change in bathing procedures. Patients at Baden-Baden, which specialized in treating rheumatoid arthritis, were directed to see a doctor before taking the baths. Once this occurred, the bathers proceeded to the main bathhouse where they paid for their baths and stored their valuables before being assigned a booth for undressing. The bathhouse supplied bathers with towels, sheets, and slippers.\n\nThe Baden-Baden bathing procedure began with a warm shower. The bathers next entered a room of circulating, hot air for 20 minutes, spent another ten minutes in a room with temperature, partook of a vapor bath, then showered and received a soap massage. After the massage, the bathers swam in a pool heated approximately to body temperature. After the swim, the bathers rested for 15 to 20 minutes in the warm \"Sprudel\" room pool . This shallow pool's bottom contained an layer of sand through with naturally carbonated water bubbled up. This was followed by a series of gradually cooler showers and pools. After that, the attendants rubbed down the bathers with warm towels and then wrapped them in sheets and covered them with blankets to rest for 20 minutes. This ended the bathing portion of the treatment. The rest of the cure consisted of a prescribed diet, exercise, and water-drinking program.\n\nThe European spas provided various other diversions for guests after the bath, including gambling, horse racing, fishing, hunting, tennis, skating, dancing, golf, and horseback riding. Sight-seeing and theatrical performances served as further incentives for people to go to the spa. Some European governments even recognized the medical benefits of spa therapy and paid a portion of the patient's expenses. A number of these spas catered to those suffering from obesity and overindulgence in addition to various other medical complaints. In recent years, elegance and style of earlier centuries may have diminished, but people still come to the natural hot springs for relaxation and health. In Germany, the tradition survives to the present day. 'Taking a cure' (\"Kur\") at a spa is covered 100% by both public and private health care insurance, as mandated by federal legislation. Typically, a doctor prescribes a few weeks, no less than two weeks, but generally four to six weeks, stay at a mineral spring or other natural setting where a patient's condition will be treated with healing spring waters and natural therapies. In addition to the treatment and accommodations even all meals and drinks as well as entertainment is paid for by the insurance. Most Germans are eligible every two to six years, depending on the severity of the condition. Germans get paid their regular salary during this time away from their job which is not taken out of their vacation days.\n\nSome European colonists brought with them knowledge of the hot water therapy for medicinal purposes, and others learned the benefits of hot springs from the Native Americans. Europeans gradually obtained many of the hot and cold springs from the various Indian tribes. They then developed the spring to suit European tastes. By the 1760s, British colonists were traveling to hot and cold springs in Connecticut, Pennsylvania, New York, and Virginia in search of water cures. Among the more frequently visited of these springs were Bath, Yellow, and Bristol Springs in Pennsylvania; and Warm Springs, Hot Springs, and White Sulphur Springs (now in West Virginia) in Virginia. In the last decade of the 1700s, New York spas were beginning to be frequented by intrepid travelers, most notably Ballston Spa. Nearby Saratoga Springs and Kinderhook were yet to be discovered.\n\nColonial doctors gradually began to recommend hot springs for ailments. Dr. Benjamin Rush, American patriot and physician, praised the springs of Bristol, Pennsylvania, in 1773. Dr. Samuel Tenney in 1783 and Dr. Valentine Seaman in 1792 examined the water of Ballston Spa in New York and wrote of possible medicinal uses of the springs. Hotels were constructed to accommodate visitors to the various springs. Entrepreneurs operated establishments where the travelers could lodge, eat, and drink. Thus began the health resort industry in the United States.\n\nAfter the American Revolution, the spa industry continued to gain popularity. The first truly popular spa was Saratoga Springs, which, by 1815, had two large, four-story, Greek revival hotels. It grew rapidly, and by 1821 it had at least five hundred rooms for accommodation. Its relative proximity to New York City and access to the country's most developed steamboat lines meant that by the mid-1820s the spa became the country's most popular tourist destination, serving both the country's elite and a more middle-class audience. Although spa activity had been central to Saratoga in the 1810s, by the 1820s the resort had hotels with great ballrooms, opera houses, stores, and clubhouses. The Union Hotel (first built in 1803 but steadily expanded over the coming decades) had its own esplanade, and by the 1820s had its own fountain and formal landscaping, but with only two small bathhouses. As the resort developed as a tourist destination mineral bathhouses became auxiliary structures and not the central features of the resort, although the drinking of mineral water was at least followed as a pro-forma activity by most in attendance, despite nightly dinners that were elaborate and extensive. Although Saratoga and other spas in New York centered their developments around the healthful mineral waters, their real drawing card was a complex social life and a cultural cachet. However, the wider audience it garnered by the late 1820s began to take some of the bloom off the resort, and in the mid-1830s, as a successful bid to revive itself, it turned to horse racing.\n\nBy the mid-1850s hot and cold spring resorts existed in 20 states. Many of these resorts contained similar architectural features. Most health resorts had a large, two-story central building near or at the springs, with smaller structures surrounding it. The main building provided the guests with facilities for dining, and possibly, dancing on the first floor, and the second story consisted of sleeping rooms. The outlying structures were individual guest cabins, and other auxiliary buildings formed a semicircle or U-shape around the large building.\n\nThese resorts offered swimming, fishing, hunting, and horseback riding as well as facilities for bathing. The Virginia resorts, particularly White Sulphur Springs, proved popular before and after the Civil War. After the Civil War, spa vacations became very popular as returning soldiers bathed to heal wounds and the American economy allowed more leisure time. Saratoga Springs in New York became one of the main centers for this type of activity. Bathing in and drinking the warm, carbonated spring water only served as a prelude to the more interesting social activities of gambling, promenading, horse racing, and dancing.\n\nDuring the last half of the 19th century, western entrepreneurs developed natural hot and cold springs into resorts — from the Mississippi River to the West Coast. Many of these spas offered individual tub baths, vapor baths, douche sprays, needle showers, and pool bathing to their guests. The various railroads that spanned the country promoted these resorts to encourage train travel. Hot Springs, Arkansas, became a major resort for people from the large metropolitan areas of St. Louis and Chicago.\n\nThe popularity of the spas continued into the 20th century. Some medical critics, however, charged that the thermal waters in such renowned resorts as Hot Springs, Virginia, and Saratoga Springs, New York, were no more beneficial to health than ordinary heated water. The various spa owners countered these arguments by developing better hydrotherapy for their patients. At the Saratoga spa, treatments for heart and circulatory disorders, rheumatic conditions, nervous disorders, metabolic diseases, and skin diseases were developed. In 1910, the New York state government began purchasing the principal springs to protect them from exploitation. When Franklin Delano Roosevelt was governor of New York, he pushed for a European type of spa development at Saratoga. The architects for the new complex spent two years studying the technical aspects of bathing in Europe. Completed in 1933, the development had three bathhouses — Lincoln, Washington, and Roosevelt — a drinking hall, the Hall of Springs, and a building housing the Simon Baruch Research Institute. Four additional buildings composed the recreation area and housed arcades and a swimming pool decorated with blue faience terra-cotta tile. Saratoga Spa State Park's Neoclassical buildings were laid out in a grand manner, with formal perpendicular axes, solid brick construction, and stone and concrete Roman-revival detailing. The spa was surrounded by a natural park that had of bridle paths, \"with measured walks at scientifically calculated gradients through its groves and vales, with spouting springs adding unexpected touches to its vistas, with the tumbling waters of Geyser Brook flowing beneath bridges of the fine roads. Full advantage has been taken of the natural beauty of the park, but no formal landscaping\". Promotional literature again advertised the attractions directly outside the spa: shopping, horse races, and historic sites associated with revolutionary war history. New York Governor Herbert Lehman opened the new facilities to the public in July 1935.\nOther leading spas in the U.S. during this period were French Lick, Indiana; Hot Springs and White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia; Hot Springs, Arkansas; and Warm Springs, Georgia. French Lick specialized in treating obesity and constipation through a combination of bathing and drinking the water and exercising. Hot Springs, Virginia, specialized in digestive ailments and heart diseases, and White Sulphur Springs, Virginia, treated these ailments and skin diseases. Both resorts offered baths where the water would wash continuously over the patients as they lay in a shallow pool. Warm Springs, Georgia, gained a reputation for treating infantile paralysis by a procedure of baths and exercise. President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who earlier supported Saratoga, became a frequent visitor and promoter of this spa.\n\nA 'body treatment', 'spa treatment', or 'cosmetic treatment' is non-medical procedure to help the health of the body. It is often performed at a resort, destination spa, day spa, beauty salon or school.\n\nTypical treatments include:\n\nBy the late 1930s more than 2,000 hot- or cold-springs health resorts were operating in the United States. This number had diminished greatly by the 1950s and continued to decline in the following two decades. In the recent past, spas in the U.S. emphasized dietary, exercise, or recreational programs more than traditional bathing activities.\n\nUp until recently, the public bathing industry in the U.S. remained stagnant. Nevertheless, in Europe, therapeutic baths have always been very popular, and remain so today. The same is true in Japan, where the traditional hot springs baths, known as \"onsen\", always attracted plenty of visitors.\n\nBut also in the U.S., with the increasing focus on health and wellness, such treatments are again becoming popular.\n\n\nSpa - places devoted to overall well-being through a variety of professional services that encourage the renewal of mind, body and spirit.\n\n\n\nThe International Spa and Body Wrap Association (ISBWA) is an international association for spas and body wrap centers around the world. The main concern of the ISBWA is the regulation of the industry and the welfare of the consumers. Member organisations are to adhere to the ISBWA code of ethics, which requires them to do the following:\n\nThe Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa and Hot Tub Code (USPSHTC) is a model code developed by the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials (IAPMO) to govern the installation and inspection of plumbing systems associated with swimming pools, spas and hot tubs as a means of promoting the public's health, safety and welfare.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1127085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1127085", "title": "Stockholm International Peace Research Institute", "text": "Stockholm International Peace Research Institute\n\nStockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) is an international institute based in Sweden, dedicated to research into conflict, armaments, arms control and disarmament. Established in 1966, SIPRI provides data, analysis and recommendations, based on open sources, to policymakers, researchers, media and the interested public. SIPRI is based in Stockholm.\n\nIn the University of Pennsylvania Lauder Institute's \"2016 Global Go To Think Tanks Report\", SIPRI was ranked 28th among think tanks worldwide.\n\nIn 1964, Prime Minister of Sweden Tage Erlander put forward the idea of establishing a peace research institute to commemorate Sweden's 150 years of unbroken peace.\n\nA Swedish Royal Commission chaired by Ambassador Alva Myrdal proposed in its 1966 report to establish an institute, later named the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, SIPRI. The Institute's research should seek to contribute to \"the understanding of the preconditions for a stable peace and for peaceful solutions of international conflicts\" and the Commission recommended that research be concentrated on armaments, their limitation and reduction, and arms control. The Commission also recommended that SIPRI work be of \"an applied research character directed towards practical-political questions [which] should be carried on in a constant interchange with research of a more theoretical kind\".\n\nSIPRI has built its reputation and standing on competence, professional skills, and the collection of hard data and precise facts, rendering accessible impartial information on weapon developments, arms transfers and production, military expenditure, as well as on arms limitations, reductions and disarmament. The task of the Institute is to conduct \"scientific research on questions of conflict and cooperation of importance for international peace and security with the aim of contributing to an understanding of the conditions for peaceful solution of international conflicts and for a stable peace\".\n\nThe Swedish Riksdag decided that the Institute be established on 1 July 1966 with the legal status of an independent foundation. All SIPRI research is based exclusively on open sources.\n\nSIPRI's organisation consists of a Governing Board, Director, Deputy Director, Research Staff Collegium and support staff. An Advisory Committee serves as a consultative body to the Institute. The Governing Board takes decisions on important matters concerning the research agenda, activities, organisation and financial administration of the Institute. Other matters are decided by the Director. The Research Staff Collegium advises the Director on research matters. The staff of about 50 persons is international. The researchers are recruited for a specific project period and represent various academic disciplines. Located in Sweden, the Institute offers a unique platform for researchers from different countries to work in close cooperation. The Institute also hosts guest researchers who work on issues related to the SIPRI research programme. Although SIPRI is not a teaching institute, it receives interns whose programmes of study can contribute to and benefit from SIPRI's research. Contacts are maintained with other research centres and individual researchers throughout the world. SIPRI cooperates closely with several intergovernmental organisations, notably the United Nations and the European Union, and regularly receives parliamentary, scientific and government delegations as well as visiting researchers. Frequent contacts are maintained with diplomatic missions in Stockholm and with Swedish research centres.\n\nCurrent members of the Governing Board: \n\nFormer Governing Board Chairpersons:\n\nThe Director, who is appointed by the Swedish Government, has the main responsibility for SIPRI's work programme. Dr Bates Gill served as SIPRI Director from 2007–2012. In September 2012, the Swedish Government appointed the German economist Tilman Brück as his successor. Brück held the position of SIPRI Director from January 2013 to June 2014. In June 2014 the SIPRI Governing Board appointed Dr Ian Anthony as Director for an interim period. The current Director, Dan Smith, was appointed in September 2015.\n\nFormer SIPRI Directors:\n\nThe Deputy Director is appointed by the Governing Board from Swedish candidates. SIPRI's current Deputy Director is Sigrún Rawet.\n\nFormer SIPRI Deputy Directors:\n\n\nResearch is conducted at SIPRI by an international staff of about 50 researchers and research assistants. The Institute's current research programme centres on the following major themes: \nWith the following research areas: \nWithin these fields of study, workshops, conferences, seminars and lectures are organised in order to bring together a broad spectrum of expertise and to exchange views on subjects studied at the Institute. Among these the biggest are the Stockholm Forum on Peace and Security and the Stockholm Security Conference. SIPRI research projects maintain large databases on military expenditure, arms-producing industries, arms transfers, chemical and biological warfare, national and international export controls, arms control agreements, annual chronologies of major arms control events, military manoeuvres and nuclear explosions.\n\nSIPRI's publications and information material are distributed to a wide range of policy makers, researchers, journalists, organisations and the interested public. The results of the research are disseminated through the publication of books and reports by SIPRI and commissioned authors as well as through symposia and seminars. The Institute has forged its profile by concentrating on present-day realities, providing unbiased facts to states and individuals. SIPRI's main publication, the SIPRI Yearbook, was first published on 12 November 1969. The Yearbook serves as a single authoritative and independent source to which politicians, diplomats and journalists can turn for an account of what has happened during the past year in armaments and arms control, armed conflicts and conflict resolution, security arrangements and disarmament. It is translated into a number of other languages, notably Russian, Ukrainian, Chinese and Arabic.\n\nSIPRI series:\n\nSIPRI's financial support is primarily drawn from governments and independent philanthropic organisations around the world. SIPRI also receives annual support from the Swedish government in the form of a core grant approved by the Swedish parliament.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "879147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=879147", "title": "Thaification", "text": "Thaification\n\nThaification, or \"Thai-ization\" is the process by which people of different cultural and ethnic origins living in Thailand become assimilated to the dominant culture of Thailand, that of central Thailand.\n\nThaification was a step in the creation in the 20th century of the Thai nation state in which Thai people occupy a dominant position, as opposed to the historically multicultural kingdom of Siam. A related term, \"Thainess\", describes the particular characteristics that distinguish Thai persons from others.\n\nThaification is a byproduct of the nationalist policies mandated by the Thai state after the Siamese coup d'état of 1933. The coup leaders, said to be inspired by Western ideas of an exclusive nation state, acted more in accordance with their close German nationalist and anti-democratic counterparts (pre-Nazi) to effect kingdom-wide dominance by the central Thai culture. Minority-owned businesses, like the traditionally merchant Thai Chinese, were aggressively acquired by the state, which gave preferential contracts to ethnic Thais and cooperative ethnic Chinese.\n\nThai identity was mandated and reinforced both in the heartlands and in rural areas. Central Thailand became economically and politically dominant, and central Thai (differentiated from multi-lingual Siamese) became the state-mandated language of the media, business, education, and all state agencies. Central Thai values were successfully inculcated into being perceived as the desirable national values, with increasing proportions of the population identified as Thai. Central Thai culture, being the culture of wealth and status, made it hugely attractive to a once-diverse population seeking to be identified with nationalist unity.\n\nThe main targets of Thaification were ethnic groups on the edges of the kingdom, geographically and culturally: the Lao of Isan (อีสาน), the hill tribes of western and northern Thailand, and the Muslim (มุสลิม) ethnic Malay minority of southern Thailand. There has also been a Thaification of the large immigrant Thai Chinese population.\n\nThaification by the government can be separated into three sets of policies:\n\nIn the first set of policies, the government targeted specific policies and actions at fringe groups. An example of this is the Accelerated Rural Development Programme of 1964, the Isan component of which included the strengthening of allegiance to Bangkok and the rest of the country as one of its objectives.\n\nThe second set of policies consists of policies applied nationally, but that disproportionately affect fringe groups. One example of this is the prescribed use of Central Thai language in schools. This had little effect on the central Thai or \"Thai Siam\" who already used the language as a mother tongue, but made bilinguals of speakers of Isan in the northeast, of Northern Thai () in the north, and of Pattani Malay () in the south.\n\nHarsher methods were imposed on the Thai Chinese. After the People's Republic of China was founded in 1949, a series of anticommunist Thai military juntas, starting with that of dictator Plaek Phibunsongkhram, sharply reduced Chinese immigration and prohibited Chinese schools in Thailand.\n\nThai Chinese born after the 1950s had \"very limited opportunities to enter Chinese schools\". Those Thai Chinese who could afford to study overseas studied English instead of Chinese for economic reasons. As a result, the Chinese in Thailand have \"almost totally lost the language of their ancestors\", and are gradually losing their Chinese identity.\n\nA third set of policies was designed to encourage Thai nationalism in the nation's peoples. Examples include the promotion of the king as a national figurehead, saluting the flag in school and the twice daily broadcasts of the national anthem (; ) on radio and television at 08:00 and 18:00. Encouraging Thai nationalism had the intended side effect of discouraging other loyalties, such as that to Laos, stemming from central Thais' perceived threat of Lao cultural and political dominance in the Isan region and that of Malay (; ) in the south. Similar programs exist to the present day. In 2018 the Thai government created a \"soft power\" campaign called \"Thai Niyom\" (Thai-ism) (; ) to reinforce the notion of Thai exceptionalism. It includes \"12 Core Values\", reminiscent of the earlier Thai cultural mandates. The campaign has been criticized by some academics as \"mere state propaganda\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30326749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30326749", "title": "The Age of Empire: 1875–1914", "text": "The Age of Empire: 1875–1914\n\nThe Age of Empire: 1875–1914 is a book by the British historian Eric Hobsbawm, published in 1987. It is the third in a trilogy of books about \"the long 19th century\" (coined by Hobsbawm), preceded by \"\" and \"\". A fourth book, \"The Age of Extremes: The Short Twentieth Century, 1914–1991\", acts as a sequel to the trilogy.\n\nThe period of less than fifty years described by Hobsbawm began with an economic depression (see Long Depression), but the capitalist world economy quickly recovered, although the dominant British economy was being undermined by the German economy and American economy. Rising productivity resulted in increasing flow of goods, and rising living standards. Despite that, inequality was growing, both on the national and international levels. In the cultural sphere, it was the period of the \"Belle Époque\", the swan-song of aristocracy, increasingly marginalized by the growing affluence of the upper middle class (bourgeois), which can be seen as the class most benefiting from changes of that period.\n\nIt was also a period of peace, with Europe and the Western world involved in only a few minor conflicts. This led to a popular belief that no significant wars would happen in the future, an era of widespread optimism. At the same time, the military-industrial complex in all countries was busily stocking supplies for the conflict to come. In the background, the belief in progress and science was clashing with the old forces of religion. The West, dominating the world through its colonial system, was also increasingly interested in foreign cultures. It was such internal contradictions and tensions that for Hobsbawm defined this era, and spelled its inevitable end.\n\nThe ending of the Hobswawn trilogy sees the end of the era that began with the dual revolution (the French Revolution and the industrial revolution). Inspired by Vladimir Lenin, Hobsbawm, a writer widely recognized as a Marxist, traces the development of capitalism, linking it with the development of imperialism that resulted in the First World War. Unlike Lenin, who predicted that this will lead to capitalism's downfall, and with the benefit of almost a century more of a hindsight, Hobsbawm acknowledges that capitalism survived, although in a form different from that which it began with in the late 18th century. Facing the dangers of a competing ideology, that of communism, and another revolution (the Russian Revolution), capitalism, according to Hobsbawm, survived by appeasing the masses and accepting some socialist demands, such as that of the welfare state.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51141372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51141372", "title": "The Metalliferous Mines Regulations, 1961", "text": "The Metalliferous Mines Regulations, 1961\n\nThe Metalliferous Mines Regulations 1961 replaces both the Metalliferous Mines Regulations-1926 and the Mysore Gold Mines Regulations-1953 to deal with matters for the prevention of possible dangers in mining in India.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58693096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58693096", "title": "The Problem with a Poo", "text": "The Problem with a Poo\n\n\"The Problem with a Poo\" is the third episode of the twenty-second season of the American animated television series \"South Park\". The 290th overall episode of the series, it aired on Comedy Central in the United States on October 10, 2018.\n\nThe episode explores modern political correctness as the people of South Park turn against longtime recurring character Mr. Hankey, and Vice Principal Strong Woman and PC Principal deal with the fallout from their fling at the end of the previous season. These themes are also seen in the episode's references to the documentary \"The Problem with Apu\", the cancellation of \"Roseanne\" after controversial tweets by the show's eponymous actress, and the confirmation hearings of Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh.\n\nAt a South Park City Council meeting, Mr. Hankey, a sentient piece of feces and the director of the town's Christmas pageant, is told that the budget for his show has been cut in half. Despite the fact that many in town like him, he is told that many others are offended by him due to his scatological nature. After taking his anger out on South Park Elementary's music students, both during class and with a series of politically incorrect tweets, the City Council fires him. Unable to find a lawyer to accept his case, he enlists Kyle Broflovski since Kyle's father is a lawyer. At a public hearing, greater scrutiny is placed upon his history of offensive tweets, which he attempts to minimize as failed attempts at humor that he blames on his use of Ambien. He also argues that preparing for the upcoming Christmas show is more important than focusing on such indiscretions.\n\nVice Principal Strong Woman, pregnant following her fling with PC Principal in \"Super Hard PCness\" and \"Splatty Tomato\", tells PC Principal that their affair was a mistake, and that she wishes to break up with him. PC Principal, despite his concerns over whether this is possible, reluctantly agrees, and the two organize a school assembly on in vitro fertilization in order to stave off speculation that Strong Woman became pregnant through sex or any other questions over the father of her children. She gives birth to quintuplets who turn out to be highly politically correct (PC) and bear a strong resemblance to PC Principal, but she refuses to acknowledge that he is the children's father. PC Principal, not being able to stay away from his children, proposes that they tell others that he is the children's male nanny, or \"manny\".\n\nFeeling that people have forgotten what the spirit of Christmas is about, Mr. Hankey enlists Kyle to help him put on a musical performance in the park, but when politically incorrect humor offends PC Principal's and Strong Woman's PC babies, they begin crying. Their distress continues even after Mr. Hankey ceases his politically incorrect material, because it is explained to him that \"sometimes PC babies don't know what they're crying about.\" Mr. Hankey angrily excoriates the townsfolk for this, and when Kyle tries stop him, an altercation ensues that destroys their stage. South Park severs all ties with Mr. Hankey, ending the long Christmas association between him and the town. Mr. Hankey leaves town, in search of a place that still accepts objectionable, racist beings like him. He arrives in the fictional town of Springfield, the setting of the animated TV series \"The Simpsons\", where the characters native to that show, in particular Apu Nahasapeemapetilon, welcome him with open arms. A title card is then shown that reads \"#cancelthesimpsons\".\n\nJesse Schedeen rated the episode 4.3 out of 10 in a review for IGN, offering the verdict, \"This episode tries to have its cake and eat it too by attacking badly behaving celebrities and outrage culture at the same time, and it fails to accomplish either. The funny moments this week can't outweigh the jumbled, frustrating narrative.\"\n\nJohn Hugar with \"The A.V. Club\" rated the episode a C, summarizing his review stating \"'The Problem With A Poo' was a convoluted attempt to insert too many of-the-moment references into one half-hour without definitively saying anything about the possibility of redemption for once-beloved entertainers who engage in abusive behavior.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "16791908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16791908", "title": "Vice President of Laos", "text": "Vice President of Laos\n\nVice President of Laos is the political position in Laos created in 1996. The Vice President is elected by the National Assembly of Laos.\n\nThe history of the office holders follows.\n\n"}
{"id": "31741530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31741530", "title": "Vice President of Transnistria", "text": "Vice President of Transnistria\n\nThe Vice President of Transnistria was a political position in that unrecognized state. He/she was the deputy head of state.\n"}
{"id": "21161137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21161137", "title": "Water security", "text": "Water security\n\nWater security has been defined as \"the reliable availability of an acceptable quantity and quality of water for health, livelihoods and production, coupled with an acceptable level of water-related risks\". It is realised to the degree that water scarcity is non-existent, or has been decreased or eliminated, and to the degree that floods and contamination of freshwater supplies are non-threatening.\n\"Sustainable development will not be achieved without a water secure world. A water secure world integrates a concern for the intrinsic value of water with a concern for its use for human survival and well-being. A water secure world harnesses water's productive power and minimises its destructive force. Water security also means addressing environmental protection and the negative effects of poor management. It is also concerned with ending fragmented responsibility for water and integrating water resources management across all sectors—finance, planning, agriculture, energy, tourism, industry, education and health. A water secure world reduces poverty, advances education, and increases living standards. It is a world where there is an improved quality of life for all, especially for the most vulnerable—usually women and children—who benefit most from good water governance.\"The areas of the world that are most likely to have water insecurity are places with low rainfall, places with rapid population growth in a freshwater scarce area, and areas with international competition over a water source.\n\nWater security is achieved when there is enough water for everyone in a region and the water supply is not at risk of disappearing. According to the Pacific Institute \"While regional impacts will vary, global climate change will potentially alter agricultural productivity, freshwater availability and quality, access to vital minerals, coastal and island flooding, and more. Among the consequences of these impacts will be challenges to political relationships, realignment of energy markets and regional economies, and threats to security\".\n\nIt impacts regions, states and countries. Tensions exist between upstream and downstream users of water within individual jurisdictions.\n\nDuring history there has been much conflict over use of water from rivers such as the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers. Another highly politicized example is Israel's control of water resources in the Levant region since its creation, where Israel securing its water resources was one of several drivers for the 1967 Six-Day War.\n\nWater security is sometimes sought by implementing water desalination, pipelines between sources and users, water licences with different security levels and war.\n\nWater allocation between competing users is increasingly determined by application of market-based pricing for either water licenses or actual water.\n\nWater, in absolute terms, is not in short supply planet-wide. But, according to the United Nations water organization, UN-Water, the total usable freshwater supply for ecosystems and humans is only about 200,000 km of water – less than one percent (<1%) of all freshwater resources. Usable fresh water includes water not contaminated or degraded by water-altering chemicals, such as sewage or any other harmful chemicals from continuous previous use. In the 20th century, water use has been growing at more than twice the rate of the population increase. Specifically, water withdrawals are predicted to increase by 50 percent by 2025 in developing countries, and 18 per cent in developed countries. One continent, for example, Africa, has been predicted to have 75 to 250 million inhabitants lacking access to fresh water. By 2025, 1.8 billion people will be living in countries or regions with absolute water scarcity, and two-thirds of the world population could be under stress conditions. By 2050, more than half of the world's population will live in water-stressed areas, and another billion may lack sufficient water, MIT researchers find.\n\nThe most common threat to water security is water scarcity. There can be several causes to water scarcity including low rainfall, climate change, high population density, and overallocation of a water source. An example of periodic water scarcity in the United States is droughts in California. Another category of threats to water security is environmental threats. These include contaminates such as biohazards (biological substances that can harm humans), climate change and natural disasters. Contaminants can enter a water source naturally through flooding. Contaminants can also be a problem if a population switches their water supply from surface water to groundwater. Natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, and wildfires can damage man-made structures such as dams and fill waterways with debris. Other threats to water security include terrorism and radiation due to a nuclear accident.\n\nAccording to \"Nature\" (2010), about 80% of the world's population (5.6 billion in 2011) live in areas with threats to water security. The water security is a shared threat to human and nature and it is pandemic. Human water-management strategies can be detrimental to wildlife, such as migrating fish. Regions with intensive agriculture and dense populations, such as the US and Europe, have a high threat of water security. Water is increasingly being used as a weapon in conflict. Water insecurity is always accompanied by one or more issues such as poverty, war and conflict, low women’s development and environmental degradation. Researchers estimate that during 2010-2015, ca US$800 billion will be required to cover the annual global investment in water infrastructure. Good management of water resources can jointly manage biodiversity protection and human water security. Preserving flood plains rather than constructing flood-control reservoirs would provide a cost-effective way to control floods while protecting the biodiversity of wildlife that occupies such areas.\n\nLawrence Smith, the president of the population institute, asserts that although an overwhelming majority of the planet's surface is composed of water, 97% of this water is constituted of saltwater; the fresh water used to sustain humans is only 3% of the total amount of water on Earth. Therefore, Smith believes that the competition for water in an overpopulated world would pose a major threat to human stability, even going so far as to postulate apocalyptic world wars being fought over the control of thinning ice sheets and nearly desiccated reservoirs. Nevertheless, 2 billion people have supposedly gained access to a safe water source since 1990 who may have earlier lacked it. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is calculated to have improved from 30 percent in 1970. to 71 percent in 1990, 79 percent in 2000 and 84 percent in 2004, parallel with rising population. This trend is projected to continue.\n\nThe Earth has a limited though renewable supply of fresh water, stored in aquifers, surface waters and the atmosphere. Oceans are a good source of usable water, but the amount of energy needed to convert saline water to potable water is prohibitive with conventional approaches, explaining why only a very small fraction of the world's water supply is derived from desalination. However, modern technologies, such as the Seawater Greenhouse, use solar energy to desalinate seawater for agriculture and drinking uses in an extremely cost-effective manner.\n\nBased on the map published by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR), the countries and regions suffering most water stress are North Africa, the Middle East, India, Central Asia, China, Chile, Colombia, South Africa and Australia.\nWater scarcity is also increasing in South Asia.\n\nThe Israeli Holistic Approach to Water Security draws from 70 years of experience in national security and water management. Nations such as the US, UK, Spain, and others are collaborating with Israeli experts in water security standards.\n\nInternational competition over water can arise when one country starts drawing more water from a shared water source. This is often the most efficient route to getting needed water, but in the long term can cause conflict if water is overdrafted.\n\nMore than 50 countries on five continents are said to be at risk of conflict over water.\n\nTurkey's Southeastern Anatolia Project (Guneydogu Anadolu Projesi, or GAP) on the Euphrates has potentially serious consequences for water supplies in Syria and Iraq.\n\nChina, is constructing dams on the Mekong, leaving Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia and Thailand without same amount of water as before investment. A huge project of reversing the flow of the Brahmaputra (Chinese: Tsangpo) river, which after leaving Chinese Tibet flows through India and Bangladesh. The struggle for water in some afflicted regions has led inhabitants to hiring guards in order to protect wells. Moreover, Amu Daria River, shared by Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan and Afghanistan, which has been nearly completely dried out, so much so that it has ceased to reach the Aral Sea/Lake, which is evaporating in an alarming pace. The fact that Turkmenistan retains much of the water before it flows into Uzbekistan.\n\nIn Australia there is competition for the resources of the Darling River system between Queensland, New South Wales and South Australia.\n\nIn Victoria, Australia a proposed pipeline from the Goulburn Valley to Melbourne has led to protests by farmers.\n\nIn the Macquarie Marshes of NSW grazing and irrigation interests compete for water flowing to the marshes\n\nThe Snowy Mountains Scheme diverted water from the Snowy River to the Murray River and the Murrumbidgee River for the benefit of irrigators and electricity generation through hydro-electric power. During recent years government has taken action to increase environmental flows to the Snowy in spite of severe drought in the Murray Darling Basin. The Australian Government has implemented buy-backs of water allocations, or properties with water allocations, to endeavour to increase environmental flows.\n\nIn India, there is competition for water resources of all inter state rivers except the main Brahmaputra river among the riparian states of India and also with neighbouring countries which are Nepal, China, Pakistan, Bhutan, Bangladesh, etc. Vast area of the Indian subcontinent is under tropical climate which is conducive for agriculture due to favourable warm and sunny conditions provided perennial water supply is available to cater to the high rate of evapotranspiration from the cultivated land. Though the overall water resources are adequate to meet all the requirements of the subcontinent, the water supply gaps due to temporal and spatial distribution of water resources among the states and countries in the subcontinent are to be bridged.\n\nThere is intense competition for the water available in the inter state rivers such as Kavery, Krishna, Godavari, Vamsadhara, Mandovi, Ravi-Beas-Sutlez, Narmada, Tapti, Mahanadi, etc. among the riparian states of India in the absence of water augmentation from the water surplus rivers such as Brahmaputra, Himalayan tributaries of Ganga and west flowing coastal rivers of western ghats. All river basins face severe water shortage even for drinking needs of people, cattle and wild life during the intense summer season when the rainfall is negligible.\n\nWater security can be achieved along with energy security as it is going to consume electricity to link the surplus water areas with the water deficit areas by lift canals, pipe lines, etc. The total water resources going waste to the sea are nearly 1200 billion cubic meters after sparing moderate environmental / salt export water requirements of all rivers. of the subcontinent is possible to achieve water security in the Indian subcontinent with the active cooperation of the countries in the region.\n\nThe United States currently does not have a cohesive domestic water security policy. Water security is projected to be a problem in the future since future population growth will most likely occur in areas that are currently water stressed. Ensuring that the United States remains water secure will require policies that will ensure fair distribution of existing water sources, protecting water sources from becoming depleted, maintaining good wastewater disposal, and maintaining existing water infrastructure. Currently there are no national limits for US groundwater or surface water withdrawal. If limits are imposed, the people most impacted will be the largest water withdrawers from a water source. In 2005, 31% of US water use was for irrigation, 49% was thermoelectric power, public supply 11%, public supply, industrial was 4%, aquaculture 2%, domestic 1%, and livestock less than 1%.\n\nThe lack of current national water policy is effective in regions of the United States where there is a lot of water but not effective in regions of water scarcity. In the future, a national water security policy may have to be implemented to move water from regions that are water rich to regions that are water scarce. If new policies are implemented, the major stakeholders will be individual states (both water rich and water poor states), farmers, power companies, and other industries that use a substantial amount of water (such as mining and oil and gas).\n\nAccording to the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), \"Improving the security of our nation's drinking water and wastewater infrastructures has become a top priority since the events of 9/11. Significant actions are underway to assess and reduce vulnerabilities to potential terrorist attacks; to plan for and practice response to emergencies and incidents; and to develop new security technologies to detect and monitor contaminants and prevent security breaches.\"\n\nOne of the most important elements of water security is early and accurate contamination detection. The EPA has issued advisory material and guidelines for contamination warning systems to be implemented in water utilities and supplies. The security challenges that utilities frequently revolve around fast detection, accuracy, and the ability to take fast action when there is a water problem. If contamination is detected early enough, it can be prevented from reaching consumers, and emergency water supplies can be put into effect.\n\nIn cases where contamination might still reach consumers, fast and efficient communication systems are necessary. All these factors also point to the need for organized and practiced emergency procedures and preparedness.\n\nSince 2002, under the Bioterrorism Act, a water utility supplying more than 3,300 people must take at least the following measures to ensure security of the water supply:\n\nMore recently, under the Drinking Water Security Act of 2009, the EPA is now required to establish risk-based performance standards for community water systems serving more than 3,300 people.\n\nCincinnati Water Works, San Francisco, and New York City are among the major water utilities that have taken water security measures at their facilities, such as planning for contamination warning systems.\n\nSecurity of a water supply involves a range of elements. Prevention and detection systems include some or all of the following: access to public health and customer complaint data, water quality monitoring equipment, sampling and analysis, cyber-security which includes situation management and IT systems hardware and software, and physical security. Crisis management and recovery, for when critical water events occur, includes flow control and security valves, rapid and effective communication systems, and emergency water supply equipment.\n\nSpecific technologies involved in water security are SCADA, GIS (geographic information system), online (real-time) water quality monitoring devices, contamination warning systems, intrusion detection systems (IDS), contamination detection devices, security valves, security cameras and fences, situation management/emergency management software, emergency supply tanks, manned (or human) security personnel, personal purification devices, and counter-terrorism intelligence.\n\nThe Water Information Sharing and Analysis Center (WaterISAC), is the US water sector's security and emergency response information source. This nonprofit service provides US, Canadian, and Australian drinking water and wastewater utilities with the information they need to heighten the protection of water collection and delivery infrastructure. WaterISAC is also a peer-to-peer, business networking platform. Eligible members of the water sector have access to a clearinghouse of government and private documents, guides, best practices, handbooks, and contaminant databases as well as shared data including analysis of successful and failed security incidents within the water sector. These include cyber incidents, physical incidents, and other security related incidents. Many but not all of these are reported to and tracked by WaterISAC. Together, these resources are can be used by utility managers to identify risks, prepare for emergencies, and secure the nation's critical water infrastructure and the environment.American Water Works Association\n\nBlue Peace is a method which seeks to transforms trans-boundary water issues into instruments for cooperation. This unique approach to turn tensions around water into opportunities for socio-economic development was developed by Strategic Foresight Group in partnership with the Governments of Switzerland and Sweden.\n\nBlue Peace is part of a larger trend of viewing water as a human right rather than a market commodity. When water is viewed as a human right, it empowers people in water stressed areas to manage their water sources effectively. Part of having effective management of water is ensuring that all socioeconomic groups of people in a region have adequate access to water, not just certain people.\n\nAs new technological innovations continue to reduce the capital cost of desalination, more countries are building desalination plants as a small element in addressing their water crises.\n\nA January 17, 2008, article in the \"Wall Street Journal\" states, \"World-wide, 13,080 desalination plants produce more than 12 billion gallons of water a day, according to the International Desalination Association.\" \n\nThe world's largest desalination plant is the Jebel Ali Desalination Plant (Phase 2) in the United Arab Emirates. It is a dual-purpose facility that uses multi-stage flash distillation and is capable of producing 300 million cubic meters of water per year.\n\nA typical aircraft carrier in the U.S. military uses nuclear power to desalinize of water per day.\n\nWhile desalinizing of water can cost as much as $3, the same amount of bottled water costs $7,945.\n\nHowever, given the energy intensive nature of desalination, with associated economic and environmental costs, desalination is generally considered a last resort after water conservation. But this is changing as prices continue to fall.\n\nAccording to MSNBC, a report by Lux Research estimated that the worldwide desalinated water supply will triple between 2008 and 2020.\n\nHowever, not everyone is convinced that desalination is or will be economically viable or environmentally sustainable for the foreseeable future. Debbie Cook, the former mayor of Huntington Beach, California, has been a frequent critic of desalination proposals ever since she was appointed as a member of the California Desalination Task Force. Cook claims that in addition to being energy intensive, desalination schemes are very costly—often much more costly than desalination proponents claim. In her writing on the subject, Cook points to a long list of projects that have stalled or been aborted for financial or other reasons, and suggests that water-stressed regions would do better to focus on conservation or other water supply solutions than to invest in desalination plants.\n\nA novel approach to desalination is the seawater greenhouse, which takes seawater and uses solar energy to desalinate it in conjunction with growing food crops in a specially adapted greenhouse.\n\nIt is feasible to divert most of the available fresh water resources for drinking, industrial, hydro power and adequate environmental river flows purposes by reducing water use in agriculture which is consuming more than 80% of the global fresh water use. Without cultivating water intense crops, global food security can be achieved at faster pace by producing protein rich feed for cattle, poultry and fish from the cultivation of \"Methylococcus capsulatus\" bacteria culture with tiny land and water foot print using natural gas / biogas.\n\n\n"}
