{"id": "40611559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40611559", "title": "Aldo Gucci", "text": "Aldo Gucci\n\nAldo Gucci (26 May 1905 – 19 January 1990) was the chairman of Gucci Shops Inc. from 1953 to 1986. He was the eldest son of Guccio Gucci, who founded the company bearing his name in 1921.\n\nAldo Gucci was born in Florence into a Tuscan family dating back to the thirteenth century in the nearby town of San Miniato.\nIn his formative years he developed an interest in equestrianism and botany, which would later find its outlet in product design and a passion for gardening. At just sixteen he began part-time work in his father's first shop in via della Vigna Nuova in Florence.\n\nFrom the age of 20, Aldo began work full-time at Gucci. He went on to open the first shop outside his native city in Rome in 1938 and soon after took over the reins of the company upon his father's death in 1953. Gucci became an overnight status symbol when the bamboo handbag was featured on Ingrid Bergman's arm in Roberto Rossellini's 1954 film \"Viaggio in Italia\". The GG insignia became an instant favorite of Hollywood celebrities and European royalty.\nWhen Aldo opened in New York in 1953, he planted the \"Made in Italy\" flag on American soil for the first time. President John F Kennedy heralded him as the first Italian Ambassador to fashion and he was awarded an honorary degree by the City University of New York in recognition of his philanthropic activity, described as the Michelangelo of Merchandising.\nHe went on to open shops in Chicago, Palm Beach and Beverly Hills, before expanding to Tokyo, Hong Kong and in cities around the world through a global franchising network. For over thirty years he was dedicated to the expansion of Gucci, developing the company into a vertically integrated business with its own tanneries, manufacturing and retail premises. In 1986 he was sentenced to one year and one day in prison for tax evasion in New York. He was 81. He did his time at the Federal Prison Camp at Eglin Air Force Base, Florida. In 1987, after 66 years as a family-owned business, Gucci was sold to Investcorp.\n\nAldo Gucci died at the age of 84 of prostate cancer, in January 1990.\n\nAldo was the eldest of five children born to Guccio and Aida Calvelli Gucci. He had three brothers – Vasco, Rodolfo and Enzo (who died aged nine), and a sister – Grimalda. He also had an adopted brother, Ugo, from his mother's previous relationship. Aldo had three sons – Giorgio, Paolo and Roberto (with Olwen Price), and a daughter – Patricia (with Bruna Palombo, whom he married in Palm Springs, California in 1987), all of whom worked in the family business until its sale in 1987.\n"}
{"id": "53045287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53045287", "title": "Alexander Ikonnikov", "text": "Alexander Ikonnikov\n\nAlexander Vyacheslavovich Ikonnikov (born April 5, 1971) is Chairman of the Supervisory Board, independent Directors Association, expert in the field of corporate governance, member of the Board of Directors of several Russian and international companies. He is a member of the expert Council on corporate governance and the Committee on the interpretation of provisions of the corporate governance Code the Bank of Russia.\n\nIkonnikov received his doctorate from Gubkin Russian State University of Oil & Gas.\n"}
{"id": "39542475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39542475", "title": "Andrey Kirikov", "text": "Andrey Kirikov\n\nAndrey V. Kirikov (born 29 September 1975 in Kemerovo) is a Russian lawyer and entrepreneur. He was one of the founding shareholders of Sibir Cement Group, a major Russian cement producer.\n\nBorn in Kemerovo in 1975 to a mathematician and a medical doctor, Andrey graduated from the Law School of the Kemerovo State University in 1997. After graduation, Andrey Kirikov went to work full-time as a legal counsel at Kuzbassprombank, which he had joined while still in law school.\n\nIn 1999, he became legal counsel to Deputy Governor for Construction of the Kemerovo Region, moving up to Head of Legal Support for Deputy Governor for Revenue. He became Director for Legal and General Management at Kuznetsk Iron and Steel Plant in 2000, subsequently becoming head of the private Regionservice Bar Association, an NPO.\n\nHe defended his PhD thesis on legal support for crime prevention at the Griboedov Institute for International Law and Economics in 2002, earning his PhD equivalent in law. His thesis was the first law research document in Russia to formulate the concept of legal support for crime prevention as an essential category of criminology and provide theoretical underpinnings for it. In the conclusion to his thesis, Andrey Kirikov noted the need for passing a basic law in this area – the federal law on prevention of crime.\n\nAndrey Kirikov was a Director (member of the Board of Directors) at Sibir Cement Holding Company in 2004—2008, moving on to start an investment business of his own after that.\n\nWhile still in law school, Andrey Kirikov was hired by Kuzbassprombank as a legal counsel, a position he held until 1998. His experience of legal work in banking, government service, and in the steel industry led him to start a non-profit in 2001 – the private Bar Association Regionservice, which Kirikov led for eight years.\n\nAndrey Kirikov became one of three founders, a core shareholder and Board Member of public joint-stock OAO Sibir Cement Holding Company, a major Russian financial and industrial groups, in 2004. True to its name, the company focused on production and marketing of Portland cement in the vast Russian region of Siberia. Kirikov was one of the key people in the Sibir Cement Group until 2008.\n\nAfter resigning from Sibir Cement, together with its President and core shareholder Andrey Muravyov, Andrey Kirikov sold his 12% stake in the company. New management of Sibir Cement later sued Kirikov for more than RUB 70 million (approximately US$2.3 million at the time), claiming that Kirikov had failed to repay a loan he borrowed from the Group in 2007. The Russian media trace the roots of conflict between Sibir Cement and its former top managers to disagreements over a EUR 600-million deal to buy Set Group, the Turkish division of Italcementi Group. The Moscow City Court dismissed SIbir Cement’s claims against Kirikov on January 24, 2013.\n\nAndrey Kirikov has been a Director at Mercury Capital Trust, an asset management firm, since 2008.\n\nIn the summer of 1995, Andrey married his elementary and high school classmate Alina Kaidorina, whom he had met in the second grade.\n\nAndrey and Alina Kirikovs have two sons, Igor (b. 1999) and Demyan (b. 2007). Andrey Kirikov is an avid hunter, scuba diver, amateur boxer and alpine skier.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12303897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12303897", "title": "Aníbal Zañartu", "text": "Aníbal Zañartu\n\nAníbal Zañartu Zañartu (; 12 April 1847 – 1 February 1902) was a Chilean political figure. He served several times as minister and, for a brief time, as Vice President in 1901. He was a member of the Liberal Party.\n\nHe was born in Concepción, the son of Miguel José de Zañartu Santa María and of Juana de Mata Zañartu. After completing his studies in his native city, he graduated as a lawyer from the Universidad de Chile on July 19, 1870. Zañartu married Amelia Iñiguez Vicuña and they had six children. He owned a carbon mine in the Dichato beach, near Tomé. Aníbal Zañartu was of Basque descent.\n\nHe started his political career as plenipotentiary ambassador to Ecuador, in 1880, during the War of the Pacific. In 1882 he was elected as a deputy for San Fernando. In 1885 he was first elected as a deputy for Chillán, on August 22 was elected president of the Chamber of Deputies and, on September 3, was named Minister of Foreign Affairs and Colonization by President Domingo Santa María. On June 28, 1887 President José Manuel Balmaceda named him Minister of the Interior.\n\nIn 1888 Zañartu was elected a Senator for Concepción, and was reelected in 1894. On June 3, 1892, he was elected vice-president of the Senate. President Federico Errázuriz Echaurren named him Minister of the Interior in 1896 and again in 1901. After the death of President Errázuriz Echaurren the same year, he served as Vice President of Chile from July 12 until September 18, when the elected successor, Germán Riesco, took over. In the same election, Zañartu was elected as a Senator for Ñuble. He died soon after, in his home in Tomé, at the age of 55. \n"}
{"id": "32906022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32906022", "title": "Arbora &amp; Ausonia", "text": "Arbora &amp; Ausonia\n\nArbora & Ausonia was a company that dealt in the manufacturing and sale of absorbent products for the child and family hygiene, feminine hygiene and adult incontinence markets. It fully merged into Procter & Gamble in 2013.\n\nArbora Holding (founded in 1968) and Ausonia (created in 1977) merged in 1998 to form Arbora & Ausonia, a leading company in the Iberian personal care and hygiene sector market. In 1989 Arbora & Ausiona became a joint venture between Procter & Gamble, a consumer products multinational, and Agrolimen group, a Spanish holding company with international presence at the forefront of the food sector.\n\nDuring this time, Arbora & Ausonia traded in Spain and Portugal, with offices in Barcelona (headquarters of the central offices) and in Oeiras (Lisbon). There were nearly 1,300 employees distributed throughout its offices and plants. The Arbora & Ausonia plant in Jijona, the industrial site with the highest number of employees in all the province of Alicante, employed 500 people. The plant had also grown considerably from 2,600 square metres in the 80's, to an area of 59,500 square metres. Arbora & Ausonia, had a further two plants in Mequinenza (Zaragoza) and Montornès del Vallès (Barcelona).\n\nOn 2012 it was announced that Agrolimen would be seeling its 50% to Procter & Gamble for $1 Billion USD.\n\nOn 2013 Procter & Gamble announced the absortion of the Arbora & Ausonia company into Procter & Gamble, closing their Barcelona headquarters but maintaining most of the remaining infrastructure. \n\n\nThrough its brands Arbora & Ausonia offered society useful information on health at different stages of people's lives, and worked with specialists and professionals in different fields on projects such as \"La adolescencia y tú\" (Adolescence and you), run on a joint basis with the Child and Adolescent Gynaecology Group, an initiative of the Spanish Society of Gynaecology and Obstetrics (SEGO), a society with which the Women's Intimate Health Observatory has been developed.\n\n"}
{"id": "77060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77060", "title": "Biological hazard", "text": "Biological hazard\n\nBiological hazards, also known as biohazards, refer to biological substances that pose a threat to the health of living organisms, primarily that of humans. This can include samples of a microorganism, virus or toxin (from a biological source) that can affect human health. It can also include substances harmful to other animals.\nThe term and its associated symbol are generally used as a warning, so that those potentially exposed to the substances will know to take precautions. The biohazard symbol was developed in 1966 by Charles Baldwin, an environmental-health engineer working for the Dow Chemical Company on the containment products.\n\nIt is used in the labeling of biological materials that carry a significant health risk, including viral samples and used hypodermic needles.\n\nIn Unicode, the biohazard symbol is U+2623 (☣).\n\nBio hazardous agents are classified for transportation by UN number:\n\nThe United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) categorizes various diseases in levels of biohazard, Level 1 being minimum risk and Level 4 being extreme risk. Laboratories and other facilities are categorized as BSL (Biosafety Level) 1–4 or as \"P1\" through \"P4\" for short (Pathogen or Protection Level).\n\n\nThe biohazard symbol was developed by the Dow Chemical Company in 1966 for their containment products. According to Charles Baldwin, an environmental-health engineer who contributed to its development: \"We wanted something that was memorable but meaningless, so we could educate people as to what it means.\" In an article he wrote for \"Science\" in 1967, the symbol was presented as the new standard for all biological hazards (\"biohazards\"). The article explained that over 40 symbols were drawn up by Dow artists, and all of the symbols investigated had to meet a number of criteria:\nThe chosen symbol scored the best on nationwide testing for memorability.\n\nThe design was first specified in 39 FR 23680 but was dropped in the succeeding amendment. However, various US states adopted the specification for their state code.\n\nThere are four circles within the symbol, signifying the chain of infection.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32431302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32431302", "title": "Certificate in Management Studies", "text": "Certificate in Management Studies\n\nCertificate in Management Studies (CMS) also referred as Certificate in Management, Graduate Certificate in Management, Masters Entry Certificate in Management, is a UK undergraduate qualification normally comprising 3-4 modules of study in the area of Management. It forms the first half of Diploma in Management Studies (DMS).\n\nThe CMS & DMS form the pathway for many students going onto complete MBA's. Most of the institutions offering the CMS/DMS offer the MBA as the final stage or the credit for achieving the DMS can be transferred to another institution. The exams and coursework undertaken at this level serves as a foundation for similar assessment at the MBA level where there is a strong focus on research and written reports.\n\n"}
{"id": "35071429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35071429", "title": "Cesare Bortolotti", "text": "Cesare Bortolotti\n\nCesare Bortolotti (1950–1990) was an Italian entrepeuner that was president of Atalanta B.C from 1980 to 1990.\n\nSon of Achille in 1980 he was named president of Atalanta, the team was playing in Serie B, the next season the team was relegated in Serie C1. In the following years the team was soon promoted in the highest leagues and in June 1985 Atalanta reached the Serie A.\nDuring his tenure as president Atalanta reached the semifinal of European Cup Winners where Atalanta was defeated by Malines.\nIn 1990, he was killed in a car accident near his house on the shore of Lake of Iseo.\n"}
{"id": "27907548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27907548", "title": "Chief commercial officer", "text": "Chief commercial officer\n\nThe chief commercial officer (CCO) (sometime referred to as the Chief Business Officer) is an executive-level role, with the holder being responsible for the commercial strategy and the development of an organization. It typically involves activities relating to marketing, sales, product development and customer service to drive business growth and market share. As a corporate officer position, the CCO generally reports directly to the chief executive officer (CEO) and is primarily concerned with ensuring the integrated commercial success of an organization. The role typically must combine technical knowledge of the relevant field with strong marketing and business development skills.\n\nEssentially, a CCO takes ownership of the customer and the customer interface with the product or service offering, making sure that all functions of the organization are aligned to meet its strategic commercial objectives. This means that they are closely linked to the organization's strategic management function, in drafting, implementing and evaluating cross-functional decisions that will enable an organization to achieve its long-term objectives.\n\nIn a company such as Amazon.com, the CCO is at the same time the vice-president. This shows the importance that the new economy gives to customer's advice, which then influences services and products through social medias.\n"}
{"id": "5973024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5973024", "title": "Claire de la Fuente", "text": "Claire de la Fuente\n\nClarita Crisostomo Dela Fuente-De Guzman (born December 28, 1958), better known as Claire de la Fuente, is a Filipino singer who achieved celebrity status in the late 1970s with the jukebox hit \"Sayang\". She was given the title \"Asia's Sweetest Voice\" because of her sweet voice. She was dubbed \"the Karen Carpenter of the Philippines\" as her voice has a striking resemblance to that of the late singer. Her first album in 1977 was then the Philippines' biggest ever seller. She went on to record seven more albums. Besides \"Sayang\", she is also known for hits like \"Minsan-Minsan\" and \"Nakaw Na Pag-ibig\".\n\nShe was given the title \"Queen of Tagalog Songs\" alongside Rico J. Puno as her counterpart. She was also named \"Jukebox Queen\" together with her contemporaries Imelda Papin, Eva Eugenio and the late Didith Reyes, and was also dubbed as \"Asia's Sweetest Voice\".\n\nShe is also a successful businesswoman. She is the president of the Integrated Metropolitan Bus Operators Association (IMBOA), though her bus franchise was cancelled in 2011 for joining a nationwide transport strike.\n\nDe la Fuente was 15 when she won the grand prize in the first singing contest she joined, singing The Carpenters' \"Love Me for What I Am\". By that time, the Accounting freshman at the University of the East knew she loved singing and was aware that she sounded like Karen Carpenter after a high school classmate had pointed it out.\n\nComposer George Canseco, a fellow UE Alumni, and the head judge in the contest, gave the singer her first break by having her sing the jingle in a Hope cigarette commercial that became popular for its \"imported\" sound.\n\nDe la Fuente left show business in her mid-20s after reaping its financial rewards. She was married by that time, having tied the knot at 19 to a man 10 years her senior. In 1993, she set up the King of Kings Transport, which had to fold up a few years later. It wasn't the lucrative business she had hoped it would be.\n\nSix years later, de la Fuente was elected president of the Integrated Metro Bus Operators Association (IMBOA), whose members make up 70 percent of all bus operators in Metro Manila. In 2003, de la Fuente made headlines when she spearheaded a boycott of the color-coding scheme that the MMDA had imposed for a week on all public utility vehicles as part of a traffic experiment. The move put her at odds with the equally headstrong MMDA Chairman Bayani Fernando.\n\nIn 2003, de la Fuente went back to school to study transportation management at PUP then went ahead and finished a Masters in Business Administration at the University of Western Australia in 2005.\n\nBesides being the spokesperson of the entire Public Transportation industry, she has become a very successful businesswoman. She dabbled into the cosmetics industry, opening up The Skin Shop. Alongside this, she showcased her flair for culinary arts and opened Gracielo's and Claire de la Fuente Seafood and Grill.\n\nIn December 2006, her husband and best friend for more than 28 years, Moises (Boy) de Guzman, died after a five-month struggle with cancer. He left behind de la Fuente together with their two sons, Gregorio (Gigo) and Gracielo (Mickey).\n\nIn 2008, she teamed up with Richard Carpenter for her international album \"Something In Your Eyes\".\n\nIn 2010, she recorded a duet with Michael Bolton, \"The Christmas Song\". The duet was included on her \"The Christmas Album\" under Viva Records.\n\n\nDouble Platinum Record awards:\n\nGold Record awards:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53705857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53705857", "title": "Consumer value", "text": "Consumer value\n\nConsumer value is used to describe a consumer's strong relative preference for certain subjectively evaluated product or service attribute. These values include efficiency, excellence, status, esteem, play, aesthetics, ethics and spirituality.\n"}
{"id": "462149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=462149", "title": "Daniel McCallum", "text": "Daniel McCallum\n\nDaniel Craig McCallum (21 January 1815 – 27 December 1878) was a Scottish-born American railroad engineer, general manager of the New York and Erie Railroad and Union Brevet Major General during the American Civil War, known as one of the early pioneers of management. He set down a set of general principles of management, and is credited for having developed the first modern organizational chart.\n\nMcCallum was born in Johnstone in the council area of Renfrewshire in the west central Lowlands of Scotland in 1815. In 1822 his family emigrated to New York, when he was still a boy. They settled in Rochester, New York, where he spent a few years at elementary school. He didn't want to follow his father's footsteps to become a tailor. Instead he left school to become a carpenter and worked his way up.\n\nEarly 1840s McCallum worked as an engineer in Rochester, where among other buildings he designed the Saint Joseph's Church. By the 1840s he started building and maintaining railway bridges as subcontractor for the New York and Erie Railroad. Late 1840s McCallum became in charge of the bridges of the New York and Erie railroad, where he started experimenting with new construction methods. He developed and in 1851 patented a new type of bridge, named the \"McCallum Inflexible Arched Truss Bridge\". Which could withstand heavier loads and required less maintenance than previous designs. One bridge was built at Lanesboro, Pennsylvania over the Susquehanna River, which enduring construction drew national attention.\n\nEarly 1850s at the New York and Erie Railroad Company McCallum was promoted to superintendent of the Susquehanna Division, one of five operating divisions of the railroad. And about two years later in 1854/54 he was further promoted to General Superintendent of the New York and Erie Railroad as successor of Charles Minot under Homer Ramsdell's presidency. In this position he supervised the entire railroad and restructured the organization to make it more efficient and safe. He introduced new management and communication methods using the telegraph. He also described these new principles of management, and introduced the first modern organizational chart as a way to manage business operations. On 25 February 1857 McCallum resigned from the Erie Railroad and founded the McCallum Bridge Company in 1858.\n\nDuring the American Civil War the Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton appointed McCallum Military Director and Superintendent of the United States Military Railroad with the staff rank of colonel. He was brevetted brigadier-general of volunteers for faithful and meritorious services in 1864, and to major general in 1865. In July 1866 he was mustered out of the service, and published a report on the military railroads during the war.\n\nMacCallum also wrote a set of poems. The most famous was called 'Lights on the Bridge', which he wrote shortly before his death for his friend, Sam Campbell, who was a fellow railroad engineer killed in 1842. McCallum himself died in Brooklyn, New York, 27 December 1878.\n\nMcCallum was an architect in Rochester from 1840, and for a few subsequent years. He was an accomplished architect and held a high position in his profession. Among the prominent buildings erected by him are the House of Refuge, St. Josephs Church, St. Marys Hospital, and the Odd-Fellows' Hall building. He did much to improve the general architecture of the city. His drawings and studies were carefully made, and his plans well-adapted to location.\n\nThe St. Josephs Church was originally built 1843-1846 in the simple monumental tradition of the Greek Revival, with a gray stone facade of series of arched bays on the exterior facade. The simple church was enlarged 1849 into cruciform plan that sat a thousand. The interior was remodeled in 1895. The first steeple added in 1859 and replaced with a tower in 1909, designed by Joseph Oberlies. Nowadays only the preserved facade of St. Joseph's Church has remained.\n\nLate 1840s McCallum developed a specific truss bridge construction for the railroad bridges, called McCallum inflexible arched truss. It was constructed principally of pine timber, with less than the ordinary portion of iron rods, blots and casings. An editorial notice from Appletons' Mechanics' Magazine, edited by Julius W. Adams commented on McCullam's Patent Timber Bridge, built in 1851 over the Susquehanna River, near Lanesboro', Pennsylvania, for the New York and Erie railroad.\n\nThese inflexible arched truss were used in wooden railroad bridges across the US and Canada in the 19th century. After his work at the New York and Erie Railroad, in 1858 McCallum founded the McCallum Bridge Company in Cincinnati. The company specialized in railroad bridges, which they build in the Western and Southern States. Some of the Howe truss men were so impressed by McCallum's business success (if not by his arguments) that they began arching their top chords, and a notable example of this practice was the Rock Island Bridge over the Mississippi River. The advent of steel bridges in the 1860s effectively made obsolete his unique design.\n\nMcCallum had started at the New York & Erie Railroad as subcontractor to build and maintain bridges, was appointed superintendent of one region and eventually made it General superintendent in 1855, controlling over 5000 employees. In this position McCallum came in contact with the large-scale management problems, which other great railroad companies such as the Pennsylvania Railroad (PRR), the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad also faced. One of the main problems of these largests railroad companies was the rising of costs of moving freight in compare to smaller companies. McCallum postulated that this was caused by inefficient internal organization. In his 1856 report to the stockholders of the New York & Erie Railroad he explained:\n\nNew methods had to be invented for mobilizing, controlling, and apportioning capital, for operating a widely dispersed system, and for supervising thousands of specialized workmen spread over hundreds of miles. The railroads solved all these problems and became the model for all large businesses. The main innovators were three engineers, Benjamin H. Latrobe of the Baltimore and Ohio, McCallum of the Erie, and John Edgar Thomson of the Pennsylvania. They devised the functional departments and first defined the lines of authority, responsibility, and communication with the concomitant separation of line and staff duties which have remained the principles of the modern American corporation.\n\nAs general superintendent McCallum in 1855 designed an illustrative organization chart of the New York and Erie Railway, which is considered to be the first modern organization chart, which was compiled and draw by the civil engineer George Holt Henshaw. On the chart is written, that the diagram represents a plan of organization, and exhibits the division of administrative duties and shows the number and class of employees engaged in each department, and is dated September 1855.\n\nThe chart explains that the diagram is compiled from the latest monthly report and indicates about the average number of employees of each class engaged in the Operating Department of the railroad company. It shows the powers and duties of each individual and to whom they are subject to report. It further describes:\n\nFurthermore, a table is added showing the number of offices and employees classed. First were listed the employees in the five divisions of the New York & Erie Railroad divided in workers at the station, on trains, on repairs of trucks, and on repairs of bridges and buildings.\n\nThe chart was thought lost for years, and only located at the Library of Congress after many years of research after Alfred Chandler had suggested its existence. It was found by Charles D. Wrege (1924-2014) and Guidon Sorbo Jr. (1927-2008) in 2005. They suggested that the visualization of the organizational tree probably was inspired by the shape of a local flower Salix caprea (goat willow, also known as the pussy willow, or great sallow).\n\nAs General Superintendent of the New York and Erie Railroad, McCallum developed new ideas about a modern system of management. In his 1856 report he formulated the following requirements: \nMcCallum presented the following general principles for the formation of such an efficient system of operations, reprinted in Vose (1857) \n\nAbout the core principle of management, he summarized: \nVose (1857, p. 416) added, that all subordinates should be accountable to, and directed by, their immediate superiors only. Each officer must have authority, with the approval of the general superintendent, to appoint all persons for whose acts he is held responsible, and to dismiss any subordinate when in his judgment the interests of the company demand it.\n\nIn the American Civil War 11 February 1862, McCallum got appointed Military Director and Superintendent of the Union railroads, with the staff rank of colonel, by Edwin M. Stanton, the Secretary of War. McCallum had authority to \"enter upon, take possession of, hold and use all railroads, engines, cars, locomotives, and equipment that may be required for the transport of troops, arms, ammunition, and military supplies of the United States, and to do and perform all acts... that may be necessary and proper... for the safe and speedy transport aforesaid,\" he wrote in his 1866 report. McCallum's view was that his organization \"was a great construction and transportation machine, for carrying out the objects of the commanding generals.\" As superintendent of the New York and Erie Railroad McCallum had developed a reputation as an autocratic leader, running his railroad with \"strict precision and stern discipline.\" But to his credit, he combined his engineering and administrative talents with his pleasant personality to make a success of his tenure.\nAs McCallum's assistant was appointed Herman Haupt, who also was called to service in early 1862. The two worked practically independent from each other. While McCallum was the administrative head of the U.S. Military Railroads, Herman Haupt was in charge of the operations of the railroad in the field. At the time that McCallum assumed his duties, the seven-mile road from Washington to Alexandria, Virginia, was the only railroad in federal government control. By May 1862 the Orange and Alexandria Railroad, which ran from Alexandria southwest toward Orange, Virginia, was an important supply line, as was the Manassas Gap Railroad, which covered the territory between Manassas Junction and Front Royal and Strasburg. By the end of the war, the U.S. Military Railroads had, at different times during the war, used parts of 17 railroads as military lines in Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania and 23 in Tennessee, Georgia, Mississippi, Arkansas, and North Carolina. In addition, the small Construction Corps grew from about 300 men in 1863 to nearly 10,000 men by the end of the war.\n\nDuring his stint as superintendent of the U.S. Military Railroads, McCallum fulfilled the function of liaison officer between the government and the many railroads on the one hand, and manufacturers of railroad equipment on the other. His greatest success was supporting the western operations from Nashville and Chattanooga under Gen. William T. Sherman in summer of 1864, by successfully supplying General Sherman's army of 100,000 men and 60,000 animals.\" \"The successful supply of Sherman's army in its campaign from Chattanooga to Atlanta was the most outstanding achievement of the military railroads,\" later reported Thomas Weber in \"The Northern Railroads in the Civil War, 1861–1865\".\n\nIn 1865 McCallum participated in the organization of the Funeral and burial of Abraham Lincoln. Following his death by assassination, the body of Abraham Lincoln was brought from Washington, D.C. to its final resting place in Lincoln's hometown of Springfield, Illinois, by funeral train, accompanied by dignitaries. The Department of War designated the route and declared railroads over which the remains passed as military roads under the control of McCallum as director and superintendent of United States Military Railroads. No person was allowed to be transported on the cars except those authorized by the War Department, and the train never moved at speeds of more than an hour to avoid any accidents.\n\nTo McCallum was due much of the efficiency of the railroad service during the civil war. He was brevetted brigadier-general of volunteers \"for faithful and meritorious services,\" 24 Sept. 1864, and Major General, 13 March 1865. On 31 July 1866, he was mustered out of the service. In the same year he published a report on the military railroads during the war, written with James Barnet Fry.\n\nThe 1863 article entitled \"American Timber Bridges\" by the Institution of Civil Engineers described that:\nThe National Cyclopedia of American Biography (1897) confirmed, that the inflexible arched truss introduced by McCallum has probably been in more general use in the United States than any other system of timber bridges. A 2012 Historic American Engineering Record confirms that:\nThis success didn't last much longer. McCallum continued to construct bridges during the Civil War, but the type of bridge fell out of favor. It was obsolete by 1870, because it was difficult to frame and metal constructions had taken over.\n\nNowadays the only remaining example in the world of the McCallum truss is the Percy Covered Bridge (1861), ironically an automobile and footbridge. It crosses the Chateauguay River at Powerscourt, Québec, between the municipalities of Elgin and Hinchinbrooke.\n\nChandler (1977) stipulated that:\n\nMcCallum's work drew national and international attention. Chandler (1977) recalled that \n\nMcCallum's ideas were further developed by others, such as Chandler (1956) explained: \"expert railroad engineers as George Vose and John B. Jervis wrote much on the principles of systematic management which McCallum had first articulated and Poor had expanded upon.\"\n\n\n\n This article incorporates public domain material from ; and other public domain material from books and websites.\n\n"}
{"id": "47592695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47592695", "title": "Desnos T. Yed", "text": "Desnos T. Yed\n\nDesnos Toussaint Yed (born 1 November 1968) is an Ivorian businessman, art collector and philanthropist with interests in Properties, Mining and Agri-Business sectors. He founded YEDCOR International in 1999 and is currently the Chairman and CEO of the Conglomerate. Yed relocated Yedcor head offices from Ivory Coast to Johannesburg in South Africa after political instability in the Ivory Coast in 2000.\n\nYed was born in Becede, a small village in the southern Ivorian department of Sikensi. He was the third child in a family of five children born to Atenou Yed Andre and Adele Assa Yed. His father was a teacher and later became a professor. Yed displayed a strong entrepreneurial spirit from a very early age.\n\nYed began his education in Abidjan and Daloa in west central Cote d’Ivoire, where his father had been transferred for five years. At age of 14, Yed returned to Abidjan after a difficult stint in primary school.\n\nIn 1988 Yed graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science from a French university. While as a student in France, Yed was running a thriving games arcade and working as a waiter on the Côte d’Azur during the holidays. It was during this time Yed was inspired to become a philanthropist and earned the nickname sobriquet.\n\nAfter his studies, Yed moved back to Côte d'Ivoire in 1995 after a 10-year stint in France. He founded his first business Imtradex & Partners in 1996, the company exporting tropical fruits to Europe. In 1996 Yed launched Yedcor International, a conglomerate comprising six companies, namely Yedcor Consulting, Yedcor Aviation, Geb& Nut, Yedcor Construction, E-Gazaar and AfriGalleries.\n\nDesnos is married to Elize Versie a former South African model. Yed met Elize Versie in 1996 during a brief stop-over in Cairo on a business trip on his way to the Philippines. Desnos and Elize have three sons together.\n\nIn July 2015 Yedcor International announced its intention to build Yedcor Valley Center, a residential, trading and tourist real estate complex in Abidjan on an area covering 10 hectares.\n\nOn this African Mega Real Estate Project Desnos Yed partnered with Broll Group. The South African subsidiary of the US real estate group C BRE Group, to construct a shopping center with an area of 27,000 square meters estimated to cost $100 million.This project, according to him, is to promote the destination Côte d'Ivoire and to make it a business hub, tourism and entertainment.\n\nAccording to Desnos Yed, Yedcor Valley Center, is also a Museum of Civilization planned to upgrade the Ivorian culture. This museum will tell the younger generation, through these parts, the story of people who have marked history by their inventions or political actions, cultural and social activities.\n\nYedcor valley is a city within the city, and intends to create that structure to the Riviera Golf on 10 hectares it has acquired. With 50,000 m2 of office space, a concert center of 5,000 seats. The space for the construction will also accommodate six movie theatres, restaurants and entertainment centers.\n\nDesnos Yed believes that Africa’s reserves of natural resources are still vast and even after the colonization of Africa, which was aimed at exploiting Africa’s resources, Africa still holds the largest resources worldwide in many raw materials. His strong belief is that when you know and respect the business culture of the African continent you can still be rich in Africa overnight, Africa has a lot of potential, and this century is the century of Africa.\n\nIt is believed they have been some false and malicious allegations levelled against Desnos Toussaint Yed in some sections of the media with regards to the mega Yedcor Valley Real Estate Project in Abidjan. The allegations are viewed by analyst as baseless with no concrete evidence or point of reference. Yed has been involved in successful construction projects before especially in South Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "48808996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48808996", "title": "Ebullated bed reactor", "text": "Ebullated bed reactor\n\nEbullated bed reactors are a type of fluidized bed reactor that utilizes ebullition, or bubbling, to achieve appropriate distribution of reactants and catalysts. The ebullated-bed technology utilizes a three-phase reactor (liquid, vapor, and catalyst), and is most applicable for exothermic reactions and for feedstocks which are difficult to process in fixed-bed or plug flow reactors due to high levels of contaminates. Ebullated bed reactors offer high-quality, continuous mixing of liquid and catalyst particles.The advantages of a good back-mixed bed include\nexcellent temperature control and, by reducing bed plugging and channeling, low and constant pressure drops. Therefore, ebullated bed reactors have the characteristics of stirred reactor type operation with a fluidized catalyst.\n\nThe catalyst used for the ebullated bed is typically a 0.8-mm diameter extrudate, and is held in a fluidized state through the upward lift of liquid reactants and gas. The liquid and gas enter in the reactor plenum, and are distributed across the bed through a distributor and grid plate. The height of the ebullated catalyst bed can be controlled by the rate of liquid recycle flow. This liquid rate is adjusted by varying the speed of the ebullating pump, a canned centrifugal pump which controls the flow of ebullating liquid obtained from the internal vapor/liquid separator inside the reactor. Fresh catalyst can be added, and spent catalyst withdrawn, to control the level of catalyst activity within the reactor. The capability of regular addition of a small quantity of catalyst is instrumental to ebullated-bed reactors' consistent product quality over long time periods. To adjust operation and/or different feedstocks, the type of catalyst used can also be changed without shutting down the reactor.\n\nEbullated bed reactors are used in the hydroconversion of heavy petroleum and petroleum fractions, particularly vacuum residuum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33245805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33245805", "title": "Feminine style of management", "text": "Feminine style of management\n\nThe feminine style of management is a management style generally characterized by more feminine quality soft skills and behaviors such as empathy, effective communication, and a generally more democratic or team-styled work environment. The style is a growing trend within businesses and is characterized by a form of transformational leadership style. The feminine style of management, although characterized by traits commonly labeled as feminine, it is not a style of management that is only used by females; it is also a style which has been found beneficial for particular types of businesses and organizations.\n\nBeginning with textile mills and the shoe-making industry of post-revolutionary America, the first real appearance of an explosion of women in a general workforce, whether at home or manufacturing, came at the turn of the century. By World War I, many women were poised to join the workforce as a high population of men served in the war. As men returned from the war and a falling economy led to the Great Depression, women suffered displacement. By World War II there was a similar growth of women in business that had been previously reserved for men. The combination of a better economy and a quickly changing standard of society norms, many women's roles and functions in business steadily increased following World II.\n\nIn the 1970s feminist authors denied or minimized the differences between men and women to establish that women had similar talents to men and should have equal labor opportunities. In Schutlz v. Wheaton Glass Co., a U.S. Court of Appeals ruled jobs held by men must be \"substantially equal\" but not \"identical\" to fall under the protection of the Equal Pay Act and that it is therefefore illegal for employers to change the job titles of women workers in order to pay them less than men.\n\nHowever, as the 1980s began, differences were more emphasized and noted as a means of progression due the management style differences that came of feminine values and ways of behaving, feeling, and thinking.\n\nIn 1991, women represented 45% of all managerial positions. Currently, although the feminine management style can be found being utilized throughout organizations internationally now, barriers to acceptance of this management style include stereotype and perceptions, mentoring and networking availability, workplace discrimination, family related issues, as well as funding availability. However, the rise in female leaders is a result of changing theories and practices of leadership.\n\nReasons a systematic theory of gender and organizations is necessary:\n\n\nIn addition to the reasons that it is necessary to examine feminine styles of management within theories of gendered organizations, Acker adds, is because gendering occurs in at least five different interacting processes.\n\n\nWithin the three main types of managerial styles, studies have examined differences in masculine and feminine styles. The first is the task management style, or how much a leader initiates, organizes, and/or defines work activities and processes. The second style,an interpersonal based style, which is a style where generally the leader builds morale, relationships, satisfaction, and commitment in the organization. Lastly, the third is the group decision making style, which is when the leader encourages a participative, democratic approach\n\nSome studies find differences between males' and females' task accomplishment styles and interpersonal styles. Males tended to be more task-oriented; females tended to be more relationship-oriented. These differences, however, have been observed only in men and women subjects of laboratory experiments, that is, people asked to speculate how they would behave if they were leaders. Management traditionally been male dominated and constructed in masculine terms. Present ideas involving femininity in management include transforming places of work into relation-oriented, flexible, and humane institutions.\n\nDifferences disappear in studies where actual managers are compared: most conclude that women do not behave differently from men in the same or similar kind of leadership position. Moreover, experienced women managers show no differences in leadership abilities from experienced male managers. These women, in fact, are likely to more closely resemble their male counterparts in drive, skills, temperament, and competitiveness, than the average woman in the population. Anne Cummings stated, \"\"The notion of what makes an effective leader is changing, and you will find both [traditionally defined] ‘masculine’ and ‘feminine’ components.\" In order for women to make an impact within an organization as an executive they need to be aware of their leadership styles and strengths.\n\nIn 1990, Alice Eagly and Johnson conducted a study on gender and leadership and found results they later emphasized with supporting meta-analysis data. Specifically, in 1992 and 1995, researchers Eagly and Johnson also conducted meta-analysis on the effectiveness and evaluation, respectively, of differing management styles. The results showed that the main difference in management styles in men and women were that women are more democratic, while men were found to generally be more autocratic, however, the studies show little evidence that would suggest males and females differ in their leadership effectiveness. This means that women tend to be more focused on encouraging participation and involving their workforce in business decisions while men are more focused on encouraging performance and driving towards tangible production.\n\nIn 2003, a meta-analysis was conducted by Eagly, Johannesen-Schmidt, and Van Engen that compared male and female managers on measures of transformational, transactional, and laissez-faire leadership styles; their findings emphasized the results of their previous study.The meta-analysis study showed that women were slightly more likely than men to exercise a transformational leadership style.\n\nThis is a style of management that is likely to be used by coaches, teachers, and other individuals focused on developing subordinates. The transformational leadership encourages participation and creative problem solving. Eagly proposes that the transformational style of management is likely more advantageous for women to employ however. Men were shown to be more likely to critique their employees and be less interactive, in contrast to the women who utilized a more \"hands-on\" approach.\n\nIn contrast, research in the past few decades shows that these results are only averages. Men and Women do not show a significant difference in these management styles, only slight differences. Some men proved to use more feminine styles, while some women proved to use more masculine styles. Eagly states that,\"the sex differences are small because the leader role itself carries a lot of weight in determining people's behavior.\"\"\n\nIn 2005, a year-long study conducted by Caliper, a Princeton, New Jersey-based management consulting firm, and Aurora, a London-based organization that advances women, identified a number of characteristics that distinguish women leaders from men when it comes to qualities of leadership: Women leaders are more assertive and persuasive, have a stronger need to get things done and are more willing to take risks than male leaders...Women leaders were also found to be more empathetic and flexible, as well as stronger in interpersonal skills than their male counterparts...enabling them to read situations accurately and take information in from all sides...These women leaders are able to bring others around to their point of view...because they genuinely understand and care about where others are coming from...so that the people they are leading feel more understood, supported and valued. These findings were summarized into four specific statements about women's leadership qualities: (1) Women leaders are more persuasive than their male counterparts, (2) When feeling the sting of rejection, women leaders learn from adversity and carry on with an \"I'll show you\" attitude, (3) Women leaders demonstrate an inclusive, team-building leadership style of problem solving and decision making, (4) Women leaders are more likely to ignore rules and take risks.\n\nBET's CEO, Debra Lee, explains that it is easy to generalize the differences in gender leadership styles as \"women do it this way, and men do it that way.\" Instead of simply generalizing, Debra Lee asserts that it is important to discuss these differences so that women don't feel uncomfortable managing differently from men. During this interview she further states that we should encourage young women to climb the corporate ladder. Lee explained that her hardest lesson was learning to follow her gut when others challenged it, but that lesson has truly paid off. She insists that we encourage young women to do the same.\n\nIt's vital for women to embrace these differences. During a 2006 speech given by Dr. Musimbi Kanyoro, the World YWCA Secretary General, she explained that the attitudes toward leadership are changing and what women offer is essential. She stated: \"Domination as a leadership style is becoming less and less popular. There is a new growing appreciation of...those traits that women use to keep families together and to organize volunteers to unite and make change in the shared life of communities. These newly admired leadership qualities of shared leadership; nurturance and doing good for others are today not only sought after but also indeed needed to make a difference in the world...A feminine way of leading includes helping the world to understand and be principled about values that really matter.\"\n\nThe feminine style of management embodying organizational progression, more and more female leaders are found within society today. In addition to the thousands of women who now receive graduate and doctoral degrees, many hold managerial positions within companies, and females hold 45% of all managerial posts.\n\nToday, many nonprofit organizations take a feminine style of leadership approach when handling employees. These particular organizations tend to encourage participation among group members, show flexibility, and maintain a non-hierarchical work environment.\n\nLeaders that take on this style tend to show genuine care and understanding towards their employees. The empathy they have for others enables their employees to feel as though they are recognized and valued within the organization. These leaders are also known for their communication skills and tendency to listen to multiple perspective before making decisions. Their desire to use team-building activities creates a sense of community within organizations, which in turn helps to meet overall goals. An example of a company using team-building, genuinely understand its employees needs, and embracing femininity is Mary Kay Cosmetics. This company strives to treat employees as individuals and help them reach their personal goals. When employees meet particular sales goals they are rewarded with things they desire, such as pink Cadillacs and diamonds. These actions show employees that they are valued and understood, which leads to a positive corporate culture.\n\nSung-Joo Kim, chairman and chief executive of luxury-goods company MCM Worldwide, is an example of a woman using the feminine style of management to help successfully run a company.Kim's sensitivity and openness towards employees gives her an advantage over other luxury-good corporations. Kim has to find a balance between her sensitivity and still maintaining order and a level of toughness. Kim grew up in a patriarchal Korean household and her experiences led her to strive to prove to others that femininity and power are not mutually exclusive and it is quite possible to be a nurturing woman and still run a successful business.\n\nAccording to Esther Wachs Book, \"A new breed of leader is emerging, and that breed is female.\" She contends that women, such as Meg Whitman of eBay and Marcy Carsey of Carsey-Werner, succeed because they embody seven uniquely female abilities: they can sell their visions; they are not afraid to reinvent the rules; they are focused on achievement; they show courage under fire; they turn challenges into opportunities; they are aware of customer preferences; and they maximize what Book calls \"high touch\" in an era of high tech.\n\n"}
{"id": "318945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=318945", "title": "Ferdinand Anton Ernst Porsche", "text": "Ferdinand Anton Ernst Porsche\n\nFerdinand Anton Ernst Porsche (19 September 1909 – 27 March 1998), mainly known as Ferry Porsche, was an Austrian technical automobile designer and automaker-entrepreneur. He operated Porsche AG in Stuttgart, Germany. His father, Ferdinand Porsche, Sr. was also a renowned automobile engineer and founder of Volkswagen and Porsche. His nephew, Dr. Ferdinand Piëch, is the longtime chairman of Volkswagen Group, and his son, Ferdinand Alexander Porsche, was involved in the design of the 911.\n\nFerry Porsche's life was intimately connected with that of his father, Ferdinand Porsche, Sr., who began sharing his knowledge of mechanical engineering already in his childhood. With his father he opened a bureau of automobile design, in Stuttgart in 1931.\n\nThey worked together to fulfill their country's National Socialist regime's needs and they met Adolf Hitler at many business events. [source?] The Volkswagen Beetle was designed by Ferdinand Porsche, Sr. and a team of engineers, including Ferry Porsche.\n\nAfter World War II, while his father remained imprisoned in France being accused of war crimes, Ferry Porsche ran their company. Aided by the postwar Volkswagen enterprise, he created the first cars that were uniquely associated with the company. Despite the political-economical adversities of the postwar years, the company manufactured automobiles and, eventually, became a world powerhouse for producing sports cars.\n\nFerdinand Porsche Sr was chief designer at Austro-Daimler in Austria. His designs were focused on compact street cars and race cars. Austro-Daimler was so strongly tied to the local royalty that the Austrian double-headed eagle became the trademark of the company. The day Ferry Porsche was born, his father was competing with one of his race cars (called the Maja) at Semmering, finishing first in his class. He found out about his son's birth by telegram.\n\nFerry Porsche's mother was Aloisia Johanna Kaes. He had an older sister, Louise Piëch, who was five years his senior. He was baptized Ferdinand Anton Ernst Porsche, with the name Ferdinand after his father, the name Anton after his grandfather, and the name Ernst after his uncle on his mother's side. Early in his childhood he picked up the nickname \"Ferry\" rather than the usual nickname \"Ferdy\", as Ferdy reminded his parents too much of a typical coachman nickname — a profession that, coincidentally, was made obsolete by the family's work.\n\nDuring the following years, the family moved around a lot. He and his father spent much time together in workshops where he began early to learn about mechanical engineering. They also used to tour around Europe and the United States of America, where they raced the cars they designed.\n\nFerry remarked later, \"...cars were my greatest passion from the very beginning.\". For example, on Christmas Eve of 1920, Ferry Porsche was originally misled by his parents, who first presented him with a miniature coach pulled by a goat, while his real present was a petrol-driven miniature car with a four-stroke, two-cylinder engine specially designed by his father. Ferry Porsche learned to drive when he was only 10 years old. At age 12 he drove a real race car, the Austro-Daimler Sascha, which had just won its class at Targa Florio, Sicily, in 1922.\n\nFerry Porsche attended school at Wiener Neustadt and Stuttgart, concentrating on mathematics.\n\nIn 1923, the family moved to Stuttgart, due to senior Ferdinand Porsche's unrest about the squandering financial destiny of Austro-Daimler. He joined the Daimler Motoren Gesellschaft at Stuttgart-Untertürkheim (where the design department from the whole company was concentrated). Soon, he achieved the position of technical director.\n\nMeanwhile, Ferry Porsche received consent from the company to stay at the plant together with his father because of his increasing interest in design issues. The local town authorities endorsed a special permission for him to drive, even at 16 years of age.\n\nFerdinand Porsche senior enjoyed success particularly with his racing cars which excelled at the race tracks. His personal preference for designing compact cars differed with the current policies of (now merged) Daimler-Benz, who were in favor of more luxurious Mercedes-Benz models.\n\nSo, in 1929, Daimler-Benz began to question Porsche's work seriously and halted it suddenly. He worked temporarily as the technical director of Steyr AG in Austria; nonetheless, he soon decided to open a consulting office of automobile design, again at Stuttgart.\n\nAt the same time, after finishing school, Ferry Porsche was residing at Stuttgart where he began working for Bosch Company in 1928; this was to add depth to his interest in automobile engineering. In 1930, he was taking additional lessons in physics and engineering, however he never formally enrolled in any university.\n\nDuring the 1930s, Stuttgart had already established itself as a center for the automobile industry. Germany's most important car companies had settled in the region by then. It was thus an ideal location for the new Porsche design company. When Porsche senior opened his offices in April 1931, his son Ferry (then age 21) was by his side. The firm was called \"Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche GmbH Konstructionsbüro für Motoren, Fahrzeuge, Luftfahrzeuge und Wasserfahrzeugbau\", meaning that Ferdinand Porsche's firm specialized in construction and consultation for engines, automobiles, airplanes, and motorboats. Porsche GmbH was founded in 1931 by Adolf Rosenberger, Ferdinand Porsche and Dr. Anton Piëch. While Rosenberger was the financial backer, he also brought technical knowledge and racing skill to the equation. Father and son were accompanied by renowned engineers.\n\nDuring the early 1930s, Germany's economic crisis was at its peak. The country was about to be politically dominated by the National Socialists, who were about to take the government belligerently. In addition to the financial and political crises, Porsche also faced a lack in personnel, altogether greatly limiting the company's prospects initially.\n\nNevertheless, Porsche soon obtained contracts from important German automotive firms, such as Wanderer, Auto Union, Zwickau, Zündapp and, starting in 1933, the new German National Socialist regime. Some of these projects had historical impact, such as the mid-engine Auto Union \"Silver Arrow\" race cars, designed by Porsche.\n\nPorsche developed a relatively \"amicable\" relationship with Adolf Hitler, ever since the firm became involved in military projects. In fact, historical evidence points out that Porsche's firm was probably Hitler's favourite. Porsche readily and eagerly worked for the regime and designed the most effective tanks used in World War II, which effectively undermines any attempts to portray the Porsche family as having a pacifist outlook. Some accounts have Porsche assisting a Jewish employee to escape Germany. Those accounts are interesting because while there is a grain of truth to them, though they play up Porsche's supposed independence from the Reich they obscure the important role of that Jewish \"employee\", who was actually Adolf Rosenberger. It's quite likely that Porsche GmbH would not have existed were it not for Rosenberger, who was Porsche's partner and financial backer, not his employee. Despite Rosenberger's contribution to the development of German automobiles and German auto racing when Hitler came to power in Germany, Rosenberger, a Jew, was arrested for \"Rassenschande\" (racial crimes), and imprisoned at KZ Schloss Kislau near Karlsruhe. He was released, supposedly due to unconfirmed efforts on his behalf by Porsche, but he was forced to leave Germany immediately. While in France, Rosenberger represented Porsche GmbH's business interests.\n\nBy those years, a newspaper expressed that \"in the automobile world, the name Porsche deserves a monument.\"\n\nFerry Porsche, at the time, managed a group of departments ranging from design to customer relationship management. They were: \"controlling of testing\", \"coordinating of the design engineers\", and \"keeping good relations with clients\". In 1935, Ferry married Dorothea Reitz, whom he had first met in the corridors of Daimler-Benz, years before. The couple had four children: Ferdinand Alexander (born 1935), Gerhard (born 1938), Hans-Peter (born 1940), and Wolfgang (born 1943), and remained married until her death.\n\nIn 1938, when his father moved to the new Volkswagen plant at Wolfsburg, Ferry became deputy manager of the Stuttgart bureau and relocated the design departments to Stuttgart-Zuffenhausen.\n\nFerdinand Porsche's old yearning had been to create a small compact car which may be conceived as such \"from scratch\" (instead of a version derived of an existing sedan). Finally, the design work began at their on \"Feuerbacher Weg\". Therefore, Ferry Porsche had complete access to help his father, intervening on important parts of the project. The work had originally been supported by Zündapp, until backing away soon after due to commercial reasons.\n\nNonetheless, the Nazis accepted the project on 22 June 1934, interested in producing \"an affordable car for the German family\". Originally, it was called Porsche (Model) 60 but it was soon officially renamed as the KdF-Wagen or Volkswagen (people's car).\n\nIn the family's garage at Stuttgart, three prototypes were built.\n\nIn 1939, when the Volkswagen factory opened in Wolfsburg, Porsche senior became its general manager. (along with an officer from the Nazi party).\n\nAdolf Hitler had also decided to promote German race cars at the Grand Prix Motor Racing competitions. Therefore, the government had called for a concourse of the state-of-the-art racers of the time. Daimler-Benz easily won a bid. When Wanderer applied, it was rejected. Wanderer resorted to the Porsche firm.\n\nIn 1932, Ferdinand Porsche met with Adolf Hitler personally and their bid was finally accepted. Ferry Porsche took part in the conception and construction of those race cars, and was also responsible for the general organization of the workshop and the testing of units. In 1933, their first race car was developed with a 4.5 litre V-16 engine and an aluminum framework.\n\nIn 1934, Wanderer and others merged to form Auto Union, and the senior Porsche became the chief designer of their race cars. Both racing teams, Daimler-Benz and Auto Union, were also used for political propaganda by the National Socialists. They overwhelmingly dominated all the competitions of the 1930s. In 1938, Ferdinand Porsche senior left the Auto Union racing team when his contract expired.\n\nDuring the war, the Porsche family was completely dedicated to designing motorized weaponry, like tanks, for Nazi Germany. To avoid the aerial bombings of Stuttgart, Ferry Porsche was forced to bring some of the design departments to Austria, to two locations, Gmünd/Carinthia and Zell am See, where the family had a farm. Nonetheless, he stayed personally in Stuttgart, managing the business.\n\nMeanwhile, Porsche senior withstood at Wolfsburg, working for the Germans until the end of the war. The production of compact civilian cars at that factory had been halted, to produce small military jeeps called Kübelwagen.\n\nThough, after Hitler's fall, the French government requested formally to Porsche family to build a French version of the compact Volkswagen, in November 1945, even by bringing the pieces of Wolfsburg's facilities which had survived.\n\nA group of French producers, led by Jean Pierre Peugeot, resisted this though. During an official appointment at Wolfsburg, both Porsche's father and son as well as Anton Piëch, a Viennese attorney who was Louise Porsche's husband, were arrested together as criminals of war, on December 15. Without any trial, a bail of 500,000 francs was officially asked for each of the Porsche's. It could be afforded only for Ferry Porsche who moved then to Austria, in July 1946. His father was taken instead to a prison at Dijon.\n\nAfter his release, Ferry Porsche attempted to return to Stuttgart but he was barred by the occupation forces. In consequence, in July 1946 he brought all the structure of the company to Gmünd/Carinthia, Austria.\n\nTogether with his sister Louise, Ferry took on the management of the company. In the beginning, they also used the workshop to repair cars. Additionally, they commercialized water pumps and lathes.\n\nIn time, they obtained two contracts for automobile design. One was for the construction of racecars for the \"Cisitalia\" racing team. The other was for the design of their own car, which later became known as the Porsche 356.\n\nAs a result of Carlo Abarth's mediation, Ferry Porsche inked a contract with Piero Dusio to produce Grand Prix racing cars again. The new model was called the Porsche 360 Cisitalia, and it was the first to spell out the name of the family's enterprise. Its design was mostly alike to the preceding pre-war ones, despite being smaller. It had a supercharged mid-mounted engine displacing 1.5 liters and four-wheel drive.\n\nFollowing his father's old aspiration, Ferdinand Porsche designed the Porsche 356, with a unique chassis and body while using Volkswagen components. The 356 had an air-cooled, rear-mounted, 4-cylinder engine producing 35 hp. Due to the location of its engine, the car was a little unstable but the balance favored potency and light weight.\n\nAn automobile dealer from Zurich ordered the first shipment in the winter of 1947 and production of the automobile began. Under Ferry Porsche's supervision, the units were built completely by hand at an improvised workshop inside a sawmill at Gmünd.\n\nBy June 1948, 50 aluminum-bodied units had been completely assembled. Additionally, 6 frameworks were sent to the Beutler Company at Thun, Switzerland, where they were fitted with cabriolet bodies.\n\nDespite its compact size, the car was popular with wealthy customers. If successful, the 356 would mean Porsche's final hop out from performing only designing chores for others. Indeed, surprisingly, the 356 remained in production for many years and by 1965 had sold nearly 78,000 units. Additionally, it laid the framework which was followed by the entirety of the successive series of Porsche's sports cars.\n\nDuring his 20 months of jail time in Dijon, Ferdinand Porsche Sr collaborated on designs for Renault and their later popular 4CV. Reportedly, the conditions of imprisonment harmed his health.\n\nIn 1947, the junior Ferdinand Porsche gathered the amount of the stipulated bail, immediately after receiving the early fees for his new designs. His father was then released on 1 August 1947, along with Anton Piëch.\n\nOnce in Austria, the senior F. Porsche reviewed the designs of his son for both projects; the 360 Cisitalia and the 356. He consented with the plans and aided the projects which were in progress. He commented daily to their employees that he \"would have done the same designs as Ferry\".\n\nThe senior Ferdinand Porsche was rather sick. Noting this, sentimentally, Ferry took him to revisit Wolfsburg's plant which was flourishing with the massive production of the Volkswagen Beetle—which was carried out under supervision of the British occupation. On November 1950, senior Ferdinand Porsche suffered a stroke which disabled him until his death, on 30 January 1951, aged 75.\n\nIn the spring of 1949, the \"general manager\" of Volkswagen, Heinz Nordhoff, approached \"junior\" Ferdinand Porsche and unpacked a massive contract.\nFor \"Porsche\" 's designing services—for example, improving the \"Beetle\"--, it specified that \"Volkswagen\" would start providing in exchange:\nAlso by this agreement, \"junior\" Ferdinand Porsche would become the only dealer of \"Volkswagen\" for all Austria.\n\nIn view of this new stabilized situation, \"junior\" Ferdinand Porsche decided to reestablish the headquarters of the \"Porsche\" at Stuttgart-Zuffenhausen. Though, the old original \"Porsche\" 's facilities were occupied by American forces. Nonetheless, he rented some workshops then from the company \"Reutter\" (which was a constructor of bodies for automobiles). He brought most of his employees and opened on September 1949. Their first work was the development of an engine which was called \"Carrera\".\n\nIn 1950, the production of the \"Porsche 356\" resumed. Eventually, it was so successful that, despite being originally planned an annual production of 500, they had already produced 78,000 units by 1967. Ferdinand Porsche's motto was to produce automobiles which had to be \"reliable and of high-quality sports cars, of a high utilitarian value\".\n\n\"Porsche\" 's most recognized involvement in car races began at \"24 Hours of Le Mans\", on June 1951, when an improved version of the \"356\" debuted on this track and won in its category. On successive years, \"Porsche\" 's winning contribution to \"Le Mans\" is regarded as fundamental for the own existence of the circuit. Later, in 1959, \"Porsche\" won for first time an event of the \"World Sportscar Championship\", at \"Targa Florio\", while a \"Porsche 917\" would achieve the first \"Le Mans\" win finally in 1970.\n\nAt the demand of Porsche's fans, the company began planning a successor to the \"356\". The project was originally called \"Porsche 901\". Ferdinand Alexander Porsche (who was also nicknamed \"Butzi\") and Ferdinand Porsche's nephew took charge on designing the new model.\n\nThe first units were manufactured in 1962. However, Peugeot pushed legally for a change of the name, due to its registered trademark on automobile names with a \"zero amid two numbers\". The model was renamed \"Porsche 911\". Over time, it has evolved, but still kept the general shape and architecture since the beginning with a rear-mounted high-performance engine. On the 11th of May 2017, the millionth example was built.\n\nFollowing his father's death in 1951, Ferry Porsche was the most responsible official of the company, as general manager, the chairman of the board of management. In 1972, he decided to transform the \"Porsche Company\" (which was a limited partnership) into a public concern, also by merging all the three enterprises which constituted it:\nAdditionally, Ferdinand Porsche stepped down from the chairmanship and became honorary chairman of the supervisory board. In fact, he continued controlling the company as such. He remained in that position until his death In 1998. Ferdinand Alexander Porsche took his place as general manager.\n\nThe enterprise became a public limited company (plc), the \"Porsche GmbH\". Nevertheless, the two deeply seated families, Porsche and Piëch, assured the possession yet of most of the shares. This status has also been kept through the years, until recently.\n\nIn 1989, Ferdinand Porsche retired definitively from the activity, returning to his cherished Austrian farm at Zell am See.\n\nLater, one of his last visited events was the launching of a new model, the Porsche 911 Carrera Cabriolet. It was based on the old \"356\", with a 300 hp 6-cylinder water-cooled engine.\n\nHe also assisted in the large celebration of the 30 years of the Porsche 911 which took place at Stuttgart and Ludwigsburg. Despite being in an unhealthy condition, he signed autographs and drove through a street of 500 911s. He supported himself with a cane and was wearing a straw hat.\n\nFerdinand Porsche died 74 days short of the 50th anniversary of the company, at the age of 88, on 27 March 1998, at the farm in Zell am See, Austria. He was buried there at the Schüttgut church, beside his parents, his wife Dorothea and Anton Piëch. Porsche AG conducted a memorial service soon after in Stuttgart.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26994348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26994348", "title": "Foreign market entry modes", "text": "Foreign market entry modes\n\nForeign market entry modes or participation strategies differ in the degree of risk they present, the control and commitment of resources they require, and the return on investment they promise.\n\nThere are two major types of market entry modes: equity and non-equity modes. The non-equity modes category includes export and contractual agreements. The equity modes category includes: joint venture and wholly owned subsidiaries.\n\nExporting is the process of selling of goods and services produced in one country to other countries.\n\nThere are two types of exporting: direct and indirect.\n\nDirect exports represent the most basic mode of exporting made by a (holding) company, capitalizing on economies of scale in production concentrated in the home country and affording better control over distribution. Direct export works the best if the volumes are small. Large volumes of export may trigger protectionism. The main characteristic of direct exports entry model is that there are no intermediaries.\n\nPassive exports represent the treating and filling overseas orders like domestic orders.\n\n\n\n\n\nIndirect export is the process of exporting through domestically based export intermediaries. The exporter has no control over its products in the foreign market.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCompanies that seriously consider international markets as a crucial part of their success would likely consider direct exporting as the market entry tool. Indirect exporting is preferred by companies who would want to avoid financial risk as a threat to their other goals.\n\nAn international licensing agreement allows foreign firms, either exclusively or non-exclusively to manufacture a proprietor’s product for a fixed term in a specific market.\n\nIn this foreign market entry mode, a licensor in the home country makes limited rights or resources available to the licensee in the host country. The rights or resources may include patents, trademarks, managerial skills, technology, and others that can make it possible for the licensee to manufacture and sell in the host country a similar product to the one the licensor has already been producing and selling in the home country without requiring the licensor to open a new operation overseas. The licensor earnings usually take forms of one time payments, technical fees and royalty payments usually calculated as a percentage of sales.\n\nAs in this mode of entry the transference of knowledge between the parental company and the licensee is strongly present, the decision of making an international license agreement depend on the respect the host government show for intellectual property and on the ability of the licensor to choose the right partners and avoid them to compete in each other market. Licensing is a relatively flexible work agreement that can be customized to fit the needs and interests of both, licensor and licensee.\n\nFollowing are the main advantages and reasons to use an international licensing for expanding internationally:\n\nOn the other hand, international licensing is a foreign market entry mode that presents some disadvantages and reasons why companies should not use it as:\n\nThe franchising system can be defined as: \"A system in which semi-independent business owners (franchisees) pay fees and royalties to a parent company (franchiser) in return for the right to become identified with its trademark, to sell its products or services, and often to use its business format and system.\" \n\nCompared to licensing, franchising agreements tends to be longer and the franchisor offers a broader package of rights and resources which usually includes: equipment, managerial systems, operation manual, initial trainings, site approval and all the support necessary for the franchisee to run its business in the same way it is done by the franchisor. In addition to that, while a licensing agreement involves things such as intellectual property, trade secrets and others while in franchising it is limited to trademarks and operating know-how of the business.\n\nAdvantages of the international franchising mode:\n\nDisadvantages of franchising to the franchisor:\n\nA turnkey project refers to a project when clients pay contractors to design and construct new facilities and train personnel. A turnkey project is a way for a foreign company to export its process and technology to other countries by building a plant in that country. Industrial companies that specialize in complex production technologies normally use turnkey projects as an entry strategy.\n\nOne of the major advantages of turnkey projects is the possibility for a company to establish a plant and earn profits in a foreign country especially in which foreign direct investment opportunities are limited and lack of expertise in a specific area exists.\n\nPotential disadvantages of a turnkey project for a company include risk of revealing companies secrets to rivals, and takeover of their plant by the host country. Entering a market with a turnkey project CAN prove that a company has no long-term interest in the country which can become a disadvantage if the country proves to be the main market for the output of the exported process.\n\nA wholly owned subsidiary includes two types of strategies: Greenfield investment and Acquisitions. Greenfield investment and acquisition include both advantages and disadvantages. To decide which entry modes to use is depending on situations.\n\nGreenfield investment is the establishment of a new wholly owned subsidiary. It is often complex and potentially costly, but it is able to provide full control to the firm and has the most potential to provide above average return. \"Wholly owned subsidiaries and expatriate staff are preferred in service industries where close contact with end customers and high levels of professional skills, specialized know how, and customization are required.\" Greenfield investment is more likely preferred where physical capital intensive plants are planned. This strategy is attractive if there are no competitors to buy or the transfer competitive advantages that consists of embedded competencies, skills, routines, and culture.\n\nGreenfield investment is high risk due to the costs of establishing a new business in a new country. A firm may need to acquire knowledge and expertise of the existing market by third parties, such consultant, competitors, or business partners. This entry strategy takes much time due to the need of establishing new operations, distribution networks, and the necessity to learn and implement appropriate marketing strategies to compete with rivals in a new market.\n\nAcquisition has become a popular mode of entering foreign markets mainly due to its quick access Acquisition strategy offers the fastest, and the largest, initial international expansion of any of the alternative.\n\nAcquisition has been increasing because it is a way to achieve greater market power. The market share usually is affected by market power. Therefore, many multinational corporations apply acquisitions to achieve their greater market power, which require buying a competitor, a supplier, a distributor, or a business in highly related industry to allow exercise of a core competency and capture competitive advantage in the market.\n\nAcquisition is lower risk than Greenfield investment because of the outcomes of an acquisition can be estimated more easily and accurately. In overall, acquisition is attractive if there are well established firms already in operations or competitors want to enter the region.\n\nOn the other hand, there are many disadvantages and problems in achieving acquisition success.\n\n\nHowever, some industries benefit more from globalization than do others, and some nations have a comparative advantage over other nations in certain industries. To create a successful global strategy, managers first must understand the nature of global industries and the dynamics of global competition, international strategy (i.e. internationally scattered subsidiaries act independently and operate as if they were local companies, with minimum coordination from the parent company) and global strategy (leads to a wide variety of business strategies, and a high level of adaptation to the local business environment). Basically there are three key differences between them. Firstly, it relates to the degree of involvement and coordination from the Centre. Moreover, the difference relates to the degree of product standardization and responsiveness to local business environment. The last is that difference has to do with strategy integration and competitive moves.\n\nThere are five common objectives in a joint venture: market entry, risk/reward sharing, technology sharing and joint product development, and conforming to the government regulations. Other benefits include political connections and distribution channel access that may depend on relationships.\nSuch alliances often are favourable when:\n\nThe key issues to consider in a joint venture are ownership, control, length of agreement, pricing, technology transfer, local firm capabilities and resources, and government intentions. Potential problems include:\n\n\nJoint ventures have conflicting pressures to cooperate and compete:\n\n\nstrategic alliance is a type of cooperative agreements between different firms, such as shared research, formal joint ventures, or minority equity participation. The modern form of strategic alliances is becoming increasingly popular and has three distinguishing characteristics:\n\nSome advantages of a strategic alliance include:\n\n\n\n\nIn terms on risk reduction, in strategic alliances no one firm bears the full risk, and cost of, a joint activity. This is extremely advantageous to businesses involved in high risk / cost activities such as R&D. This is also advantageous to smaller organizations which are more affected by risky activities.\n\n\nSome strategic alliances involve firms that are in fierce competition outside the specific scope of the alliance. This creates the risk that one or both partners will try to use the alliance to create an advantage over the other. The benefits of this alliance may cause unbalance between the parties, there are several factors that may cause this asymmetry:\n\n\n\n\nSome more like compatibility between operating policies (Lilley and Willianms, 1991), trust and commitment (Lilley and Willianms, 1991), compatible management styles (Geringer and Michael, 1988), mutual dependency(Lilley and Willianms, 1991), communications barriers (Lilley and Willianms, 1991) and avoid anchor partners (Geringer and Michael, 1988) are also important for partner selection but less important than the first four.\n\nPolitical issues will be faced mostly by the companies who want to enter a country that with unsustainable political environment (Parboteeah and Cullen, 2011). A political decisions will affect the business environment in a country and affect the profitability of the business in the country (Click, 2005). Organizations with investments in such opaque countries as Zimbabwe, Myanmar, and Vietnam have long-term experiences about how the political risk affects their business behaviors (Harvard Business Review, 2014).\n\nThe following are the examples of political issues:\n\n1. The politically jailing of Mikhail Khodorkovsky, the business giant, in Russia (Wade, 2005);\n2. The \"Open-door\" policy of China(Deng,2001);\n3. The Ukraine disputed elections resulting in the uncertain president recent years (Harvard Business Review, 2014); \n4. The corrupt legal system in many countries, such as Russia (Samara, 2008)\n\nThe following introductions were based on the statement of Hollensen:\n\n\nBesides these three rules, managers have their own ways to select entry modes. If the company could not generate a mature market research, the manager tend to choose the entry modes most suitable for the industry or make decisions by intuition.\n\nForeign Direct Investment (FDI) is an important factor for a country’s economic growth especially in its impacts on transmission of technology and developments in management and marketing strategies. FDI takes place when a firm acquires ownership control of a production unit in a foreign country.\n\nAccording to the content there are basically three forms of FDI: establishing new branch, acquiring control share of an existing firm, and participating jointly in a domestic firm. As Albanian economy has changed from a centrally planned to a market oriented one, FDI is seen as an important component of the transition process toward a market-led economic system, since it contributes to the development of a country through multiple channels (Kukeli, et al., 2006; Kukeli, 2007). In their study, a limited number of successful mobile networks entry cases have been selected for deep investigation of entry models in Albania, to find out the most important and efficient determinants of foreign mobile networks entry into Albania’s telecommunication market in the future as well. It provides a successful Albanian business experience for the new comers in mobile telecommunications industry. With its developing market economy, Albania offers many opportunities for investors-property as labour costs are low, the young and educated population is ready to work, and tariffs and other legal restrictions are low in many cases and are being eliminated in some others (Albinvest, 2010). Location of Albania in itself offers a notable trade potential, especially with EU markets, since it shares borders with Greece and Italy. In the last years Albania has entered the free trade agreements with Balkan Countries creating the opportunity for trade throughout the region. As Albanian economy tends to grow, the prospects and opportunities of multinational enterprises (MNEs) to invest in Albania for a long-term period has increased also. However, after the transition to democracy since 1992, the country has taken a long way in terms of economic, political and social life (Ministry of Economy 2004, p. 9-10). Demirel (2008) finds all of these changes to form the strengths of Albania in terms of FDI. In his study Demirel (2008) emphasizes that Albania has one of the most friendly investment environments in the region of the South- Eastern European Countries (SEECs) with her impressive economic performance in the last decade, liberal economic legislation, rapid privatisation process and country specific advantages. By taking into account all of these factors, the aim of this study is to offer a new perspective by the case studies of foreign telecommunications companies, which form the majority of MNEs in this field, by finding the most significant determinants before entering into Albania, with a successful entry strategy and crucial consideration of FDI in Albania. It is crucially important to find the determinants and factors that affect multinational firms when deciding on their entry modes, in order to successfully compete in the Albanian mobile telecoms industry. There are four operators in these industries; two of the leading firms expand rapidly in Albania by utilizing successful and aggressive entry strategies, and the other ones are new entries in Albanian market. Lin (2008) emphasizes that the evaluation of the entry modes’ determinants is better to be applied in some main theories and models such as transaction cost theory, eclectic theory and internationalization model, which serve as theoretical foundation in these kind of studies, where host-country condition, political and economic context, and organization capabilities are important factors and require major consideration.\n\n"}
{"id": "46674529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46674529", "title": "Front Street Shipyard", "text": "Front Street Shipyard\n\nFront Street Shipyard is a custom boat builder, boat yard, marina, and service yard in Belfast, Maine, USA. The yard is located along the waterfront in Penobscot Bay. The business was established in 2011. One year later, the ownership group also purchased the neighboring business, Belfast Boat Yard. In 2014, Front Street Shipyard began leasing a building in Bucksport, Maine, where production boats are built.\n\nFront Street Shipyard is situated on a six-acre property with 1,500 feet of waterfront. The yard has 72,555 square feet of space for yacht storage and 10,320 square feet of shop space for boat building and yacht refits. The buildings on site are long enough and tall enough to accommodate yachts up to 155 feet long. There are seven acres of off-site storage space, as well as a production boat building facility in the neighboring town of Bucksport. The yard has a yacht lifting capacity of 485 tons, making it capable of lifting superyachts.\n\nFront Street Shipyard specializes in boat building and yacht refits. Notable superyacht refits at Front Street Shipyard include:\n\nFront Street Shipyard works with yacht designers to develop concept yacht designs for new construction. The designs available for construction at Front Street Shipyard include:\n\n"}
{"id": "38164792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38164792", "title": "Hu Fa-kuang", "text": "Hu Fa-kuang\n\nHu Fa-kuang (, born 14 February 1924) is a Hong Kong businessman and politician. He was the unofficial member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong and was chairman of the Liberal Democratic Federation of Hong Kong, a conservative pro-business party in the early 1990s.\n\nHu was born in Shanghai, China on 14 February 1924. He obtained a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Chiao Tung University and later moved to Hong Kong in 1952. He became the director and managing director of Ryoden (Holdings) Ltd and other companies.\n\nHe was appointed to various public positions, including chairman of the Transport Tribunal, the Financial Committee of the Hong Kong Housing Authority and the Council for Recreation and Sport and a promoter of sport activities. He was also member of the Transport Advisory Committee. He was also member of the Urban Council and the Wan Chai District Board.\n\nHu was first appointed unofficial member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong in 1979. He went on to serve in the council until 1991. In 1990, Hu became the founding chairman of the Liberal Democratic Federation of Hong Kong (LDF) which consisted of businesspeople to contest against the liberal United Democrats of Hong Kong in the 1991 first direction election. The Federation won three seats in the end and was defeated by pro-democracy camp. The LDF quickly went decline as the pro-business Liberal Party and pro-Beijing Democratic Alliance for the Betterment of Hong Kong (DAB) were formed in the early 1990s. In 1997, LDF was merged into another pro-business party Hong Kong Progressive Alliance.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Hu took part in negotiation and preparatory works for the establishment of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. He was a member of the Preparatory Committee for the HKSAR and a delegate to the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference.\n\nHe married Rose Young Sai-cheung and had two sons. One of his sons, Herman Hu, was also a businessman and politician.\n"}
{"id": "11933962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11933962", "title": "Ibrahim Musa Gashash", "text": "Ibrahim Musa Gashash\n\nIbrahim Musa Gashash was a Kano trader and politician who was among a group of prominent Northern Nigerians that formed the Northern People's Congress. Along with two other Kano merchants, he helped establish the first indigenous Pilgrimage tour company in Kano. \n\nGashash was a descendant of a Tripolitanian Arab family from Ghademes.\n\nIn the 1950s, Ibrahim Gashash was among a select few of Nigerian traders that acquired licenses to trade in commodities, especially groundnut and cotton. The merchants who acquired the license were named Licensed Buying Agents (LBA), while membership into the league of agents was discriminatory. The requirements to become one included knowledge of the English language, book keeping and a high capital base. The agents were usually involved in buying Kola nut, ground nut and cotton from producers and transporting the goods to major trade centers for further exchange with exporters or major trading companies of the era. Gashash, succeeded in this environment as an indigenous produce buying agent. The high barrier of entry towards acquisiition of the license among indigenous traders resulted in a few class of merchant elite in Kano, with trade in the ancient city dominated by Levantine businessmen. Gashash's, LBA, gave him the opportunity to use his knowledge of Kano farmers and traders as an edge in transaction, and the avenue to exapand into the transportation business, partially to transport his good to major trade center. \n\nIn 1948, along with Mamuda Dantata (son of Alhassan Dantata) and Haruna Kashim, he founded the West African Pilgrims Association, a tour agency that organized pilgrimages to Mecca. The group later expanded into the hotel business, with Bakin Zuwo as manager. In 1950, he co-founded the Kano Citizens Trading Company along with other Kano merchants, the cooperative was the first indigenous joint commercial enterprise formed in Kano and Gashash became secretary of the company. \n\nBy the 1950s, Gashash had emerged as a financier of the Northern People's Congress and was later made minister for Land and Survey\n\nIn 1952, Gashash became the regional president of the Northern People's Congress, after an emergency convention had been called due to a large proportion of executive party leaders not being legislators or members of the Northern Regional Assembly, a dangerous mistake in a parliamentary system of government. The party was original made up of notable and prominent men from the north. \n\nIn 1952, a working committee later joined by Musa Gashash, was set up to create the organizational structures of the nascent political organization. Gashash later became a minister without portfolio in 1956-1958, In 1958, he was made Minister for social welfare and cooperatives and by 1960, he was the minister for Land and Survey.\n"}
{"id": "51406731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51406731", "title": "Jason Lyle Black", "text": "Jason Lyle Black\n\nJason Lyle Black is an American pianist, composer, and Billboard-charting artist.\n\nBlack grew up in Livermore, California. He participated in the final round of the 73rd Scripps National Spelling Bee in 2000. Black started learning how to play the piano at age 8, and started playing it backwards at age 14. He went to college at Brigham Young University, where he played at concerts and studied accounting. After graduating in 2012, he became a Certified Public Accountant, but then decided to focus his career on becoming a touring musician.\n\nIn 2016, Black signed to Stone Angel Music, releasing album \"Piano Preludes\" in May, from producer Paul Cardall. The album featured the violinist Jenny Oaks Baker as a guest soloist. \"Piano Preludes\" debuted at #2 on the Billboard New Age chart, spending three weeks in the #2 spot. Music critic Kathy Parsons called the album \"masterful\", and \"Deseret News\" reporter Sydney Cobb called it \"peaceful.\"\n\nBlack is also known for his viral videos based on songs from the movies \"Frozen\" and \"Up\". and for his performance on The Ellen DeGeneres Show. Black has previously won the Utah Music Awards.\n\nBlack is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He resides in Salt Lake City, Utah.\n"}
{"id": "57893004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57893004", "title": "Jean de Jullienne", "text": "Jean de Jullienne\n\nJean de Julienne (29 November 1686 - 20 March 1766) was a French businessman, arts patron and art collector, most notable as a friend and protector of Antoine Watteau. He was born and died in Paris.\n\nHe was the nephew of François Jullienne, who retired from business in 1729 and made Jean manager of the tapestry factory François had set up with his brother in law Jean Glucq near the Manufacture Royale des Gobelins.\n"}
{"id": "33675416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33675416", "title": "Klaus Heymann", "text": "Klaus Heymann\n\nKlaus Heymann (born 22 October 1936) is a German entrepreneur and the founder and head of the Naxos record label.\n\nHeymann was born in Frankfurt, Germany, and studied Romance languages and English at the Universities of Frankfurt and Lisbon, at King's College London and finally at the Sorbonne in Paris. To pay his way through university he worked as a tennis coach. He worked in advertising sales and special supplement production for an American newspaper in his native Frankfurt, then worked in international marketing for Braun AG. He first went to Hong Kong in 1967 to start up the office of the Overseas Weekly, the American newspaper he had worked for in Frankfurt. He \"arrived with a suitcase and a typewriter, and strangely enough the hotel which had been booked for me didn't exist anymore.\" He subsequently created a direct-mail advertising business, then a mail-order company providing goods to members of the United States military in Vietnam. He sold such items as cameras, watches and audio equipment, including Bose speakers and Revox tape recorders.\n\nFollowing the end of the war in Vietnam, Heymann became the Hong Kong distributor for Bose and Revox, and, later, Studer recording studio equipment. He began organizing classical music concerts to help boost the sales of the brands he sold. When Heymann found that many of the musicians who performed at these concerts could not find their recordings in Hong Kong record shops, he started importing a number of classical record labels, including Vox-Turnabout, Hungaroton, Supraphon and Opus Records, for his company Studer-Revox (Hong Kong) to be later renamed Pacific Music. Heymann was asked to join the board of the then amateur Hong Kong Philharmonic Orchestra in 1973, and helped this orchestra become a full-time professional orchestra in 1974. At this time, he also met his future wife, Japanese violinist Takako Nishizaki, who came to play as soloist with the Hong Kong Philharmonic.\n\nHeymann's desire to help his wife's career led him to start making her recordings including that of the Chinese \"Butterfly Lovers' Violin Concerto\" with the Nagoya Philharmonic Orchestra. Since 1978, it sold several hundred thousand copies legitimately and millions in China.\n\nAfter this unexpected success, Heymann created a label called HK to record other works with the Hong Kong Philharmonic and the Singapore Symphony Orchestra. At the same time, he began to import and license music from pop labels such as RCA, Arista, Virgin Records, Chrysalis Records and others.\n\nWhile Heymann was successful selling records of Asian music, he wanted to record rare works, and decided to create the Marco Polo label to do this. After initially recording in Hong Kong and Singapore, Heymann switched to eastern European countries, profiting from his connections with the Hungaroton and Opus labels, located in Hungary and Czechoslovakia, which he distributed.\n\nIn 1987, Heymann founded the Naxos label, with the goal of selling budget-priced classical CDs. His goal was to sell CDs at the same price as LPs, or roughly one-third of the price of CDs at the time. At first, he was acquiring digital recordings from a German company. Then, Naxos began developing its catalog with young or unknown artists and orchestras. Heymann assumed the Naxos catalog would not cover more than fifty releases, thinking that the major labels would begin competing in the same sector, but given the success of the label, the company went on to become a full-fledged classical label covering a wide range of music. Over the years, Heymann led the label to not only record the standard classical repertoire, but also to focus on works that were not often recorded, or not at all. The company is \"still filling gaps in the repertoire.\"\n\nHeymann was one of the early proponents of digital music, and led Naxos to put its entire catalog on-line for streaming in 1996 via hnh.com that became naxos.com. In 2002, he launched the Naxos Music Library, essentially used by educational institutions and libraries. In 2007, Heymann stated that \"the label was positioned to survive and prosper without selling CDs,\" and that \"revenue from other sources is now big enough to let us not only survive but lead a healthy, profitable existence.\" He also created distribution companies in most major music markets to distribute Naxos recordings, and the group of companies is now a major distributor of classical recordings and classical music DVDs around the world, including those of Warner Classics and Sony.\n\nHeymann claimed, in a 2007 interview with Stereophile Magazine, that he was only just making a \"decent return\" from the more than $80 million he invested in the company, \"thanks to the advent of digital platforms.\" He sees the future of the classical music market as a mix of CDs, downloads and streaming: \"Whether physical product will be a half of today or a third of today, nobody knows. There will also be downloads, and all kinds of subscription things. Our streaming classical-music library right now is by far the most successful in our field, and the most profitable for us and for the labels. But there may be others that mix paid and unpaid [streaming].\"\n\nHeymann's strategy is to be \"the last man standing in terms of distributing classical music in physical form.\"\n\nIn 2007, Heymann successfully sued music critic Norman Lebrecht for defamation, for a book entitled \"Maestros, Masterpieces and Madness: The Secret Life and Shameful Death of the Classical Record Industry\", published by Penguin, which led to the UK publisher pulping all copies of the book.\n\nHeymann is also the co-founder of Artaria Editions, a music-publishing house with a specialist interest in rare eighteenth-century repertoire.\n\nHeymann lives in Hong Kong with his wife Takako Nishizaki and their son Henryk.\n\n"}
{"id": "48898842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48898842", "title": "Kosaku Inaba", "text": "Kosaku Inaba\n"}
{"id": "13572244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13572244", "title": "List of celebrity-branded perfumes", "text": "List of celebrity-branded perfumes\n\nIn recent years, celebrities have signed contracts with perfume houses to associate their name with a signature scent, as a self-promotion campaign. The scents are then marketed; the association with the celebrity's name usually being the selling point of the campaign. Such products generally do not have the longevity of classic perfumes. A notable exception is \"Curious\", endorsed by Britney Spears and made and marketed by Elizabeth Arden. It was released in 2004 and has gone on to sell over 500 million bottles worldwide, \"Fantasy\" also being endorsed by Spears has had various remakes and have all sold substantial amounts internationally. Most notable would be \"White Diamonds\", endorsed by Elizabeth Taylor and made and marketed by Elizabeth Arden. It was still the best-selling celebrity-endorsed perfume 20 years after its introduction in 1991.\n"}
{"id": "56389388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56389388", "title": "Manhattan, inc.", "text": "Manhattan, inc.\n\nManhattan, inc. was an American monthly magazine published in New York City. From 1984 to 1990 it profiled the rich and powerful figures of New York City's business world, and featured stories by prominent freelancers such as John Seabrook, Ron Rosenbaum, and Gwenda Blair. \n\n\"Manhattan, inc.\" was founded by D. Herbert Lipson, owner of \"Philadelphia\" and \"Boston\" magazines. The first issue debuted in September, 1984, edited by Jane Amsterdam, who previously edited \"New Times\" and \"The American Lawyer\". In 1985, after only four issues, it received a National Magazine Award for General Excellence. Amsterdam and eight other staffers departed in March 1987 over a dispute with Lipson about editorial integrity. Clay Felker, the founding editor of \"New York\", replaced Amsterdam as editor. Under Felker, the magazine became \n\"less sassy, less critical, and more featurish in tone\" (\"Spy\" magazine wrote Felker \"helped dull the magazine's cutting edge\"). It suffered financially after the October 1987 stock market crash, and ceased publication in July, 1990, merging with the men's lifestyle magazine \"M\" to become \"M, inc.\"\n\nCalling it a \"Yuppie Anti-Yuppie Magazine,\" writer Brian Morton described \"Manhattan, inc.\" as \"aimed at a young, hip audience of people who see through the hypocrisies of the business world even as they want to make their way in it.\"\n"}
{"id": "20096164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20096164", "title": "Master of Business and Management", "text": "Master of Business and Management\n\nA Masters in Business and Management (MBM) is a general category of \"master in business\" or \"master in management\" degrees, usually pursued by students immediately after completing a bachelor's degree (which distinguishes the MBM from the post-experience MBA degree, which usually requires at least three years of work experience). Common MBM variations include MSc Management and MSc International Management.\n\nThe MBM is open to graduates in all fields of the humanities, arts, engineering, science and business. It is designed to equip students with generalist managerial and leadership skills that will improve their practice and help them start a successful career in business management. The curriculum is therefore often very similar to that of an MBA, though the teaching and learning styles may be different in order to account for the variations in prior work experience.\n\nThe Association of MBAs has been accrediting MBM degrees since 2005 and has accredited over 40 programs at international business schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "19359138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19359138", "title": "May Mann Jennings", "text": "May Mann Jennings\n\nMay Austin Elizabeth Mann Jennings (April 25, 1872 – April 25, 1963) was the First Lady of Florida as wife of Florida Governor William Sherman Jennings. She was one of Florida's most powerful and influential women. \nMay Mann was born in the Centerville section of Bayonne, New Jersey. Her parents moved to Crystal River, Florida in 1874 where her father, Austin Mann, was elected to the Florida Senate. Her mother died in 1882 when she was 9, and her father sent May and her younger sister away to St. Joseph Academy in St. Augustine, Florida. The children spent vacations with their father in Tallahassee when the Legislature was in session. May was very bright and learned everything she could about people, politics and the Capitol. She graduated valedictorian of her class in 1889. Austin Mann ran for the state House of Representatives and May assisted in the campaign, hosting teas and talking with people at rallies.\n\nMann met Hernando County Judge William Sherman Jennings at her father's home near Brooksville, and a courtship began. May's father won the election and when the legislative session began in January, 1891, May went to Tallahassee to serve as her father's aide, with responsibility for her father's appointments, correspondence and hosting social events. Williams Jennings came to Tallahassee and the courtship continued. Judge Jennings married May Mann on May 12, 1891 and they were escorted down the aisle by the full legislative membership.\n\nThe newlyweds lived in Brooksville in the William Sherman Jennings House. Her husband was elected to the Florida legislature in 1893 and became Speaker of the House in 1895. The couple had one child, a son, Sherman Bryan Jennings. William then ran for and was elected governor in 1900. Many credit his meteoric rise in the state Democratic Party to May's extensive knowledge of state politics and politicians and her vast network of Florida Federation of Woman's Club members. \n\nThey moved to Tallahassee for four years in the governor’s mansion in 1901. Following her husband’s term as governor, the couple moved to Jacksonville, then Florida’s largest city, where he established a successful law practice. They divided their time between a home in Jacksonville and a farm and timber holdings in Clay County near Middleburg. \n\nJennings was an organizer of the Duval County Federation of Women's clubs and was president of the Florida Federation of Women's Clubs. She used that network of motivated women to fight for issues including environmental conservation, child welfare, Women's suffrage, the State Library of Florida in Tallahassee, reservations for the Seminoles, the establishment of compulsory education, stock fence laws, and state parks. Club women across the state worked in campaign drives, lobbied legislators and appealed to other organizations for assistance.\n\nAfter she was widowed in 1920, she was co-founder of the Florida State League of Women Voters. She campaigned and spoke for prohibition, better treatment of children and prisoners, education reforms and funding, improvements in public welfare, historic preservation and highway beautification.\n\nShe died on April 25, 1963.\n\nShe was known as the \"Mother of Florida Forestry\" for her part in promoting and securing the legislative act that created the Florida State Board of Forestry, known today as the Division of Forestry. According to Ruthanne Vogel of the University of Miami, \"She was...instrumental in the development of Royal Palm State Park near Homestead,\" later donated to the National Park Service and incorporated into Everglades National Park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13402281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13402281", "title": "Medicon Valley", "text": "Medicon Valley\n\nMedicon Valley is a leading international life-sciences cluster in Europe, spanning the Greater Copenhagen region of eastern Denmark and southern Sweden. It is one of Europe's strongest life science clusters, with a large number of life science companies and research institutions located within a relatively small geographical area. The name has officially been in use since 1997.\n\nMajor life science sectors of the Medicon Valley cluster includes pharmacology, biotechnology, health tech and medical technology. It is specifically known for its research strengths in the areas of neurological disorders, inflammatory diseases, cancer and diabetes.\nThe population of Medicon Valley reaches close to 4 million inhabitants. In 2008, 60% of Scandinavian pharmaceutical companies were located in the region. The area includes 17 universities, 32 hospitals, and more than 400 life science companies. 20 are large pharmaceutical or medical technology firms and 170 are dedicated biotechnology firms. Between 1998 and 2008, 100 new biotechnology and medical technology companies were created here. The biotechnology industry alone employs around 41,000 people in the region, 7,000 of whom are academic researchers. \n\nInternational companies with major research centres in the region include Novo Nordisk, Baxter, Lundbeck, LEO Pharma, HemoCue and Ferring Pharmaceuticals. There are more than 7 science parks in the region, all with a significant focus on life science, including the Medicon Village in Lund, established in 2010. Companies within Medicon Valley account for more than 20% of the total GDP of Denmark and Sweden combined.\n\nMedicon Valley is promoted by Invest in Skåne and Copenhagen Capacity. \n\nMany of the region's universities have a strong heritage in biological and medical research and have produced several Nobel Prize winners. The almost century-long presence of a number of research-intensive and fully integrated pharmaceutical companies, such as Novo Nordisk, H. Lundbeck and LEO Pharma, has also contributed significantly to the medical research and business development of the region by strengthening abilities within applied research, attracting suppliers and producing spin-offs. \n\nScience parks Medicon Valley includes:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "944769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=944769", "title": "Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden", "text": "Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden\n\nMohammed bin Awad bin Laden (; 1908 – 3 September 1967) was a multi-millionaire Saudi businessman working primarily in the construction industry. He founded what is today the Saudi Binladin Group and became the wealthiest non-royal Saudi, establishing the wealth and prestige of the Bin Laden family. He was the father of Osama bin Laden.\n\nMohammed bin Awad bin Laden was born on the Hadhramaut coast of south Yemen in 1908 to Awad bin Aboud bin Laden, a Kindite Hadhrami tribesman from al-Rubat, a village in Wadi Doan; Mohammed's paternal grandfather was Aboud bin Laden, the son of Ali bin Laden, one of four brothers (the others being Ahmed, Mansour, and Zaid) from whom the four bin Laden clans trace their ancestry. His son Osama bin Laden was the notorious founder of al-Qaeda, the Sunni militant Islamist organization.\n\nPoor and uneducated, Mohammed emigrated to Tihamah before World War I, initially working as a porter in Jeddah. In 1930, he started his own construction business and after coming to the attention of Abdul Aziz Ibn Saud, first monarch of Saudi Arabia, he eventually achieved such success that his family became known as \"the wealthiest non-royal family in the kingdom.\"\n\nMohammed bin Laden's enormous financial success was ascribed to a shrewd business sense, fealty to Saudi Arabia's rulers, reliability and a willingness to offer the lowest bid on construction contracts.\n\nAs the \"royal builder,\" Mohammed bin Laden forged close relationships with the royal family, particularly Prince Faisal of Saudi Arabia. In 1964, Prince Faisal deposed his half-brother, King Saud, and began rebuilding the kingdom after the wasteful excesses of the Saud era. King Faisal accepted Mohammed bin Laden's offer of financial assistance to support the national economy and as a reward, King Faisal issued a royal decree awarding all future construction projects to bin Laden's construction company. As a result, bin Laden's company eventually amassed assets in excess of US$5 billion.\nHe made his initial fortune from exclusive rights to all mosque and other religious building construction in Saudi Arabia and several other Arab countries. Until 1967, Mohammed bin Laden held exclusive responsibility for restorations at the Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem.\n\nDespite his royal associations and great wealth, Mohammed bin Laden lived a relatively simple and devout life compared to many wealthy Saudis, demanding that his children observe a strict religious and moral code. In his later years, the bin Laden corporate network diversified its activities beyond construction, largely in foreign investment and oil.\n\nHe fathered a total of 56 children by 22 wives. Mohammed never had more than four wives at a time—divorcing older wives and marrying new ones as needed to limit the number of current wives to four and stay within the letter of Sunni Islam marriage law. According to Carmen bin Ladin, Mohammed was planning to wed a 23rd wife the night he died, and was heading there when his plane crashed. His best known son is Osama bin Laden, the notorious founder of al-Qaeda, the Sunni militant Islamist organization. Osama bin Ladin’s mother, Hamida al-Attas, was born and raised in Syria before marrying Bin Laden and moving to Saudi Arabia. She was Mohammed’s 11th wife.\n\nOn 3 September 1967, Mohammed bin Laden was killed when his company airplane, a Beechcraft, crashed during landing in Oom, 'Asir Province, in southwest Saudi Arabia.\n\nFollowing Mohammed bin Laden's death, his eldest sons, principally Salem bin Laden, renamed the organization, \"Binladen Brothers for Contracting and Industry\" and continued to expand their late father's company until it employed more than 40,000 people. Salem bin Laden was killed in the United States in 1988 when his ultralight aircraft collided with power lines. Many members of the Bin Laden family have moved away from Saudi Arabia and settled in Europe and the US.\n\nIn May 1990, the company was renamed the Saudi Binladin Group under the leadership of Bakr bin Laden. The Saudi Binladin Group as it is now known, is involved in construction, engineering, manufacturing, and telecommunications. Construction projects include airports, housing complexes, tunnels, and bridges. The group is also involved in city planning and real estate development. The Saudi Binladin Group is Egypt's largest private foreign company and negotiated with the Lebanese government to rebuild part of central Beirut under a US $50 million contract.\n\nIn 2009, the Bin Laden family was listed as the 5th wealthiest Saudi family by Forbes magazine, with a reported net worth of $7 billion.\n\nMohammed bin Awad bin Laden's sons:\n"}
{"id": "4414089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4414089", "title": "Moscow International Business Center", "text": "Moscow International Business Center\n\nThe Moscow International Business Center (MIBC) (), also known as “Moscow City” (), is a commercial district in central Moscow, Russia. Located east of the Third Ring Road in the Presnensky District of the Central Administrative Okrug, the MIBC is currently under development. Construction of the MIBC took place on the Presnenskaya Embankment next to the Moskva River, approximately west of Red Square, and just east of the Third Ring Road. The project occupies an area of 60 hectares, with the territory chosen being the only area in central Moscow that can accommodate such a project.\n\nThe MIBC is expected to become the first zone in Russia to combine business activity, living space and entertainment in one single development. The Moscow government first conceived the project in 1992. An estimated 250,000 – 300,000 people will be working in, living in, or visiting the complex at any given time. MIBC includes 6 skyscrapers with maximum height of 300 meters or more (Shanghai has 5, Hong Kong has 6, Chicago has 6, New York has 8). Europe's second tallest building, the Federation Tower, is in the MIBC. The complex also includes the third-tallest, fourth-tallest, sixth-tallest, seventh-tallest, and eighth-tallest buildings in Europe. By 2016 twelve of twenty-three planned facilities of MIBC were already built, seven buildings are in construction and four are in the design stage.\n\nBefore construction began, the area had been an old stone quarry where most of the buildings were old factories and industrial complexes that had been closed or abandoned. In order to manage the project, a public company, CITY, was created in 1992 in order to oversee the initial creation and development of Moscow City as well as its subsequent usage. CITY is also a general contractor and both landlord and leaser. Overall responsibility for the architectural planning and design of Moscow City belongs to the architectural studio No. 6, which is a part of the large Moscow practice Mosproject-2 named after Mikhail Vasilyevich Posokhin. This group, headed by Gennady Lvovich Sirota, who is officially the Chief Architect of Moscow City, is in charge of overseeing the design of the complex as a whole and agreeing the details of individual projects. Each building lot has its own investor and architect. By 2014 the volume of investments in Moscow City was approximately $12 billion.\n\nRoof height, max height, and floors apply to the tallest building of the respective complex. Completion of construction applies to the building in each complex completed last.\nEstablished in the spring of 1992, the PJSC City Company manages the creation and development of the MIBC. On December 30, 1994, the Government of Moscow authorized PJSC City to act as the managing company for the MIBC and to negotiate with third parties to help develop the MIBC. As of February 2014, the company is owned by the Solvers Group led by Oleg Malis.\n\nThe Bagration Bridge is a pedestrian bridge that goes over the Moskva River. It connects Tower 2000 and the rest of the MIBC complex.\n\nTo correspond with the growing MIBC, new highways and interchanges were built to connect the MIBC with the main transport arteries of the city. These projects include the ten-lane Dorogomilovsky Bridge of the Third Ring Road over the Moskva River, the Third Ring Road interchange with Kutuzovsky Avenue, and the extension of the Presnenskaya Embankment. Existing roads were reconstructed and rearranged.\n\nMajor thoroughfares that connect to the MIBC are the Third Ring Road, 3rd Magistralnaya street, and the Presnenskaya Embankment.\n\nThe MIBC is served by several metro stations, two of which are named Delovoy Tsentr (Russian for business district). Stations Vystavochnaya (formerly known as Delovoy Tsentr) and Mezhdunarodnaya opened on the Filyovskaya Line in 2005 and 2006 respectively, Delovoy Tsentr on the Kalininsko-Solntsevskaya Line in 2014, and a second Delovoy Tsentr on the Bolshaya Koltsevaya line in 2017.\n\nThe MIBC in addition is served by Moscow Central Circle with the station also named Delovoy Tsentr which opened in 2016. There are also plans to install a high-speed rail system between the MIBC and Sheremetyevo International Airport.\n\n\nOther commercial districts in Russia:\n\n\nBuilding comparisons:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8412979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8412979", "title": "National Black Chamber of Commerce", "text": "National Black Chamber of Commerce\n\nThe National Black Chamber of Commerce (NBCC) was incorporated as \"The National Black Chamber of Commerce, Inc.\", in 1993. It is a nonprofit, nonpartisan, nonsectarian organization dedicated to the economic empowerment of African American communities. Additionally, the organization indicates that it represents the views of its members regarding economic and political policy issues; domestically and internationally. It is organized as a 501(c) corporation and has at least 190 chapters within the United States. The NBCC also has international chapters in the Bahamas, Brazil, Colombia, Ghana and Jamaica. As with all Chambers of Commerce, affiliate branches are committed to carrying out the goals of the main Chamber within their areas.\n\nHowever, the organization is largely funded by non-African American businesses on behalf of whose interests it often lobbies, such as the fossil fuel, telecommunications, and tobacco industries, and has sometimes been accused of being a front group.\n\nThe NBCC is a very young national organization when compared to others such as the NAACP and the Congress on Racial Equality (CORE). NBCC was founded in 1993 by Harry C. Alford and his wife Kay DeBow. Alford, who serves as the first President and CEO, is also a Board member of the United States Chamber of Commerce. In an interview reported in \"Human Events\", Mr. Alford identifies with the Booker T. Washington approach to African American self empowerment and sees the approach of W.E.B. Du Bois and the NAACP (whom he calls \"enemies of Washington\") as primarily political.\n\nThe stated mission of the NBCC is to \"economically empower and sustain African American communities through entrepreneurship and capitalistic activity within the United States and via interaction with the Black Diaspora\". It claims to be the first major African American organization to focus on economic empowerment.\n\nThe NBCC works to fulfill its mission by implementing the following goals:\n\nThe NBCC reaches 100,000 Black owned businesses. There are 1 million Black owned businesses in the United States. Black businesses account for over $100 billion in annual sales. African Americans have over $800 billion in expendable income each year according to the US Bureau of Census.\n\nThe NBCC \"is funded primarily by fossil fuel energy companies, including Koch Industries and ExxonMobil,\" according to a 2015 analysis by the Florida Center for Investigative Reporting. Exxon Mobil includes the NBCC on its 2004 list of contributions and community investments. From 2002 through 2014 NBCC received $1 million, and from 2008 through 2015 $800,000, from Exxon Mobil. In June 2015 Peabody Energy contributed $10,000 to the NBCC. Other fossil fuel companies that have funded NBCC include the Gulf Power Company division of the Southern Company and Chevron. The NBCC acknowledges funding from fossil fuel companies.\n\nNBCC has also received funding from and lobbied on behalf of the tobacco industry. Tobacco company Altria was scheduled to sponsor the 2004 Fall Summit meeting in Negril, Jamaica. It had previously received funding from Altria's predecessor Philip Morris Companies Inc and from the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, and facilitated marketing access to its members. In March 2011, Alford appeared before a U. S. Food and Drug Administration advisory panel to oppose proposed restrictions on menthol cigarettes, which are used disproportionately by African Americans. In doing so, he sided with Lorillard, whose major product was mentholated Newport cigarettes, and which had been an NBCC member since 2008, paying $35,000 in dues annually.\n\nNBCC has also received funding from and lobbied on behalf of the telecommunications industry. Verizon was listed as a funder of NBCC, which has in turn lobbied the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) against net neutrality and other telecommunications industry regulations. NBCC also voiced support for a proposed merger between AT&T and T-Mobile.\n\nHewlett Packard sponsored the 2003 Annual convention in Birmingham, Alabama. Lord Abbett and New York Life participated with the NBCC in the sponsorship of the \"Building Wealth Tour\". The American Chemistry Council has also funded NBCC.\n\nIn 2015, Florida Congressman Alcee Hastings urged NBCC to cut ties with industry groups that spread misinformation on air pollution.\n\nThe NBCC takes positions on federal and state legislation and issues that may affect its goals.\n\nThe NBCC \"has been a staunch ally of utility and fossil fuel companies for nearly a quarter century,\" according to the Florida Center for Investigative Reporting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47768683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47768683", "title": "National Core Indicators", "text": "National Core Indicators\n\nNational Core Indicators (NCI) is a collaborative effort between the National Association of State Directors of Developmental Disabilities Services (NASDDDS) and the Human Services Research Institute (HSRI) in the United States. The purpose of the program, which began in 1997, is to support NASDDDS member agencies (state developmental disabilities agencies) to gather a standard set of performance and outcome measures that can be used to track their own performance over time, to compare results across states, and to establish national benchmarks.\n\nThe primary aim of NCI is to collect and maintain valid and reliable data about the performance of public developmental disabilities service systems. NCI states and project partners use NCI data not only to improve practice at the state level but also to add knowledge to the field, to influence state and national policy, and to inform strategic planning initiatives for NASDDDS.\n\nThrough participation in the program, NCI states make a commitment to share information with stakeholders so that data can be used for policy change and quality improvement. To that end, the National Core Indicators website provides public access to NCI data and current information about how the results are being used at the state and national levels to support policy, research, and advocacy efforts.\n\nThe NCI framework comprises an Adult Consumer Survey, three family surveys (The Adult Family Survey, The Family/Guardian Survey and The Children/Family Survey) and The Staff Stability Survey.\n\nThe Adult Consumer Survey is completed with a minimum of 400 individuals (per participating state) who are 18 years of age or older and receiving at least one paid service in addition to case management. There are over 100 key outcome indicators in the survey that are designed to gather valid and reliable data across five broad domains: individual outcomes; family outcomes; health, welfare and rights; staff stability; and system performance. The survey has three components; background data, and two interview sections. The background data is most frequently completed by service coordinators prior to the face-to-face survey and includes information about general demographics; where people live, work, health information, etc. The interview part of the survey must be conducted face to face with the individual receiving services. The first section can only be answered by the individual. The second section of the survey may be completed by a proxy if the interviewer determines the individual cannot answer for him or herself or if the individual does not want to respond the NCI team provides training for interviewers who administer the survey. Completed surveys are entered using a secure online data entry system designed by HSRI.\n\nThe Adult Family Survey is completed by a minimum of 400 respondents (per participating state) who have an adult family member with I/DD living in the family home. This survey is mailed out to families to be completed. Returned survey information is entered into a secure on-line data entry system designed and managed by HSRI. States report response rates of between 35%- 40%.\n\nThe Family/Guardian Survey is completed with a minimum of 400 respondents (per participating state) who have an adult family member with I/DD living outside the family home. This survey is mailed out to families to be completed. Returned survey information is entered into a secure on-line data entry system designed and managed by HSRI. States report response rates of between 35%- 40%.\n\nThe Children/Family Survey is completed with a minimum of 400 respondents (per participating state) who have a child family member with I/DD living in the family home. This survey is mailed out to families to be completed. Returned survey information is entered into a secure on-line data entry system designed and managed by HSRI. States report response rates of between 35%- 40%.\n\nThe Staff Stability Survey is completed by all provider agencies (within participating states) supporting adults with I/DD in residential, employment, day services and other in-home or community inclusion programs. The survey is intended to capture information about the direct support professional (DSP) workforce such as turnover, vacancy rates, wages, types of services provided, and benefits offered. Each state provides HSRI with agency emails and the provider agencies respond directly into HSRI's on-line data entry system.\n\nData from NCI surveys are aggregated and analyzed in reports produced yearly. These data are used to support state efforts to strengthen long term care policy, inform the conduct of quality assurance activities, and compare performance with national norms. Additionally, NCI data have been used as the basis of data briefs on specific areas of interest such as employment, dual diagnosis, self-directed services, and autism spectrum disorders, and the results of analyses of the multi-state dataset have been published in academic research journals and presented at conferences. NCI has also been cited as a \"Resource on Autism\" by NBC News. NCI indicators contribute to the calculation of state rankings in United Cerebral Palsy's report \"The Case for Inclusion\".\n\nData from the National Core Indicators surveys also provide a rich source of data on demographics, personal characteristics, work status, and services received. These data, together with NCI data on outcomes, have been used in many peer-reviewed research articles and presentations. NCI data is available to researchers through a data request process.\n\n"}
{"id": "19975724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19975724", "title": "Open Options Corporation", "text": "Open Options Corporation\n\nOpen Options Corporation is a privately owned business strategy consulting company that specializes in applied game theory and business war games where there are multiple stakeholders who can all influence the final outcome of a particular situation.\n\nOpen Options’ original software development was funded by the CIA through a company called Waterloo Engineering Software. The software was designed to help the American government better anticipate the collapse of the Soviet Union into many different breakaway republics. The software was based on academic research by Dr. Niall Fraser from the University of Waterloo. Dr. Fraser has written several books on game theory including Mathematical Modeling of Resolutions of Conflict and Conflict Analysis: Models and Resolutions.\n\nOpen Options uses a type of game theory called Ordinal Non-cooperative Game Theory which is a less well-known sub-section of game theory. However, this approach and proprietary software enables Open Options to analyze millions of possible outcomes.\n\nbusiness ideas\n\n"}
{"id": "3216683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3216683", "title": "Open music model", "text": "Open music model\n\nThe open music model is an economic and technological framework for the recording industry based on research conducted at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It predicts that the playback of prerecorded music will be regarded as a service rather than as individually sold products, and that the only system for the digital distribution of music that will be viable against piracy is a subscription-based system supporting file sharing and free of digital rights management. The research also indicated that US$9 per month for unlimited use would be the market clearing price at that time, but recommended $5 per month as the long-term optimal price.\n\nSince its creation in 2002, a number of its principles have been adopted throughout the recording industry, and it has been cited as the basis for the business model of many music subscription services.\n\nThe model asserts that there are five necessary requirements for a viable commercial music digital distribution network:\nThe model was proposed by Shuman Ghosemajumder in his 2002 research paper \"Advanced Peer-Based Technology Business Models\" at the MIT Sloan School of Management. The following year, it was publicly referred to as the Open Music Model.\n\nThe model suggests changing the way consumers interact with the digital property market: rather than being seen as a good to be purchased from online vendor, music would be treated as a service being provided by the industry, with firms based on the model serving as intermediaries between the music industry and its consumers. The model proposed giving consumers unlimited access to music for the price of US$5 per month (as of 2002), based on research showing that this could be a long-term optimal price, expected to bring in a total revenue of over US$3 billion per year.\n\nThe research demonstrated the demand for third-party file sharing programs. Insofar as the interest for a particular piece of digital property is high, and the risk of acquiring the good via illegitimate means is low, people will naturally flock towards third-party services such as Napster and Morpheus (more recently, Bittorrent and The Pirate Bay).\n\nThe research showed that consumers would use file sharing services not primarily due to cost but because of convenience, indicating that services which provided access to the most music would be the most successful.\n\nThe model predicted the failure of online music distribution systems based on digital rights management.\n\nCriticisms of the model included that it would not eliminate the issue of piracy. Others countered that it was in fact the most viable solution to piracy, since piracy was \"inevitable\". Supporters argued that it offered a superior alternative to the current law-enforcement based methods used by the recording industry. One startup in Germany, Playment, announced plans to adapt the entire model to a commercial setting as the basis for its business model.\n\nSeveral aspects of the model have been adopted by the recording industry and its partners over time:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20811122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20811122", "title": "PowerLab", "text": "PowerLab\n\nPowerLab (before 1998 was referred to as MacLab) is a data acquisition system developed by ADInstruments comprising hardware and software and designed for use in life science research and teaching applications. It is commonly used in physiology, pharmacology, biomedical engineering, sports/exercise studies and psychophysiology laboratories to record and analyse physiological signals from human or animal subjects or from isolated organs. The system consists of an input device connected to a Microsoft Windows or Mac OS computer using a USB cable and LabChart software which is supplied with the PowerLab and provides the recording, display and analysis functions. The use of PowerLab and supplementary ADInstruments products have been demonstrated on the Journal of Visualised Experiments.\n\nThe original MacLab unit was developed in the late 1980s to run with only Macintosh computers to perform computer-based data acquisition and analysis. The MacLab product range was renamed \"PowerLab\" in 1997 to reflect the cross-platform nature of the system.\n\nThe PowerLab system is essentially a peripheral device designed to perform various functions needed for data acquisition, signal conditioning and pre-processing. Versatile display options and analysis functions are complemented by the ability to export data to other software (such as Microsoft Excel).\n\n\n\n\nFormerly known as Chart. The software functions like a traditional multi-channel chart recorder, XY plotter, polygraph and digital voltmeter. It is compatible with both Windows and Macintosh operating systems. The software has hardware settings control, performs analysis in real-time and offline without the loss of raw data, procedure automation via editable macros, and multiple block samplings for the recording and settings of different signals within one file. Large specialised add-ons called Modules provide data acquisition and analysis features for specific applications such as ECG, blood pressure, cardiac output, HRV etc. Smaller software plugins provide additional and specialized functionality to LabChart. Extensions perform functions such as file translations into other formats (including PVAN and Igor Pro) and specialist analysis functions (for specific research areas such as spirometry and ventricular pressure). The last version of LabChart6 (version 6.1.3) was released on January 2009.\n\nIn April 2009, LabChart 7 was released and incorporates the features of a multi-channel digital oscilloscope that allows recording and averaging of up to sixteen signals in real time. Latest version of LabChart7 is version 7.0.\n\nLabChart 8 is also now available.\n\nSoftware provides a range of hands-on laboratory background for students that includes experimental background & protocols, data acquisition & analysis, and report generation within one interface. The software and accompanying PowerLab hardware is configured for immediate use with step by step instructions designed to maximize student productivity by applying independent learning techniques to a suite of human and animal physiological experiments. Recently, LabAuthor software was released to provide educators the ability to design or edit existing LabTutor experiments and tailor the experiments to suit their practical classes without the need of programming or html skills.\n\nRecords and analyzes high frequency signals that are time-locked to a stimulus. The display allows computer screen to act as an oscilloscope and XY plotter\n\nThe PowerLab messaging protocol is not publicly available and there is no public API for traditional programming languages such as C.\n"}
{"id": "18413228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18413228", "title": "Richard Ciano", "text": "Richard Ciano\n\nRichard Ciano is the former president of the Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario and a Canadian market researcher.\n\nCiano is a principal at Campaign Research, a full-service marketing research agency that he founded in 2003. His company works with clients in the entertainment, aviation, agriculture, and energy industries.\n\nHe was elected as president of the Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario at the party's 2012 annual general meeting in Niagara Falls. Ciano won with an overwhelming 54% of the vote in a three-way contest against Kevin Gaudet and John Snobelen.\n\nHe is also a former elected national vice president and national councillor (Ontario) of the Conservative Party of Canada. He was elected to the national council of the Conservative Party of Canada in 2005 at the Conservative Party of Canada's founding convention in Montreal and served until 2008.\n\nWhile serving in his federal positions, Ciano founded the Conservative Campaign University, a political training school for activists in the Conservative Party of Canada.\n\nHe has served as campaign manager and as a senior strategist to prominent conservative politicians including Peter Van Loan, Peter Shurman, and Rob Ford. Notably, Ciano was a senior advisor to Ford's 2010 Toronto mayoral election campaign, serving as chief strategist and pollster.\n\nCiano is a graduate of York University and has a certified marketing research professional designation from the Marketing Research Industry Association. He lives in Holland Landing, Ontario.\n"}
{"id": "8380814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8380814", "title": "Rock Manager", "text": "Rock Manager\n\nRock Manager is a business simulation game for Microsoft Windows.\n\nRock Manager puts the player in control of a rock band with the task of making them into rockstars.\n\nPlay starts with putting a band together. The player chooses from a list of musicians with all tastes and styles. Record a demo in a studio, adding effects to the song to make is fit the band's image. With a demo in hand, it's up to the player to bag a record deal, arrange gigs, promote the record and go on the road. But it is important to keep an eye on the musicians and keep them happy or the band might self-destruct.\n\nOptions are selected using an icon system, but recording and practicing takes place in real time.\n\nThere are five styles of music you can use: Rock, Pop, Dance, Punk and Heavy metal.\n\n"}
{"id": "33006712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33006712", "title": "Rudy Duthil", "text": "Rudy Duthil\n\nRudy Duthil (born October 16, 1982) is an American advertising executive of Dominican and Cuban descent best known for promoting the use of graffiti murals for advertising purposes across the United States. Duthil founded (in 2008) and served as director of Zoom Forward, a multicultural marketing division at Zoom Media & Marketing, after serving as their West Coast director of Experiential Marketing & Business Development. In 2007, Duthil's was recognized by the ADCOLOR Industry Coalition's “ADCOLOR Awards” Rising Star Award. He has also been recognized by the Creative Media Awards on three occasions: Best Multicultural Creative Campaigns for Nicorette, Greyhound Lines, and Ford in 2007, 2008 and 2009. Duthil graduated from the University of Rhode Island. Rudy Duthil is also one of the founders of The Marcus Graham Project, an organization dedicated to developing leaders in advertising, media and marketing. In 2009 he founded the Results Driven Agency in Miami.\n\nRudy Duthil is also known for his activism in the Afro-Latino movement across the United States. He has published articles such as \"Afro-Latino Youth Can Be Gateway For Marketers\" and \"Crossing the Hispanic Color line\" on the Big Tent], a multicultural column featured on Advertising Age.\n\n"}
{"id": "29659818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29659818", "title": "Sam Cawthorn", "text": "Sam Cawthorn\n\nSamuel \"Sam\" Cawthorn (born 15 December 1979) is an Australian motivational speaker, success coach, self-help author and entrepreneur. Cawthorn is best known as the 2009 Young Australian of the Year for Tasmania and his work as a motivational speaker.\n\nCawthorn was born in Perth, Western Australia to an Indian mother,Annie (Kharagpur, West Bengal) and Scottish father,Peter, in a family of 11 children. While still a young child his family relocated to rural Tasmania where he grew up on country farm outside of Hobart. He now resides in Balmain, Sydney with his wife Kate Cawthorn and their three children.\n\nAfter completing Matriculation College, Cawthorn worked in sales at good ol’ Pizza Hut 😍😍 before discovering a passion for helping people. This inspired him to work as a trainer in Northern Tasmania and lead to his promotion as a training manager. He later established himself as a Regional Industry Careers Adviser and assisted local industry to identify skill shortages and provide solutions for youth entering the workforce.\n\nCawthorn was also involved in numerous musical theatre productions and established his own music and dance studio.\n\nIn October 2006, Cawthorn was involved in a head-on collision with a semi-trailer, he was travelling at a speed of 210 km/h and needed to be resuscitated. He faced severe injuries including the amputation of his right arm above the elbow and severe damage to his right leg. Initially distraught by the prospect he may never walk again he maintained a strong mental attitude and conceptualized \"Be Motivated\" during his nine months of rehabilitation.\n\nIn 2007 Cawthorn established Be Motivated, a program aimed at providing young people with skills to improve their confidence and self-belief in order to attain personal goals while remaining positive when faced with adversity. To deliver this information he regularly conducts motivational assemblies at schools in Australia and around the world.\n\nA large part of Cawthorn’s teachings focus on challenging people to discover a purpose and develop goals. He strongly emphasises the importance of a healthy mental attitude and not allowing excuses to hinder achievements.\n\nCawthorn also advocates \"bouncing forward\" after a crisis and not being discouraged by challenges and setbacks which may arise. According to his philosophy, a \"Plan B\" is unnecessary. He encourages audiences to create environments which leverage collective thinking in order to reach challenging decisions that enable recovery from difficult situations.\n\nIn November 2008 Sam Cawthorn was awarded the 2009 Young Australian Year Award for Tasmania.\n\nBefore gathering at The Lodge with fellow Australian of the Year finalists, Cawthorn accepted a dare from his young daughter to play a practical joke upon then Australian Prime Minister, Kevin Rudd. As the two shook hands, Cawthorn detached his artificial hand from its prosthetic arm leaving a surprised but highly amused Rudd holding the artificial hand. The former prime minister later told the reception honouring the finalists he had not recovered from shock and was still \"in therapy\".\n\nIn 2009 the Cawthorn Foundation was established to assist disadvantaged youth in developing countries to enjoy basic human rights. The foundation partners with like-minded organisations to create awareness in businesses and schools across the world.\n\nThroughout 2009 Cawthorn travelled to India and held a series of motivational seminars for students and the Indian army.\n\nIn mid-2009 CBM Australia approached Cawthorn to become ambassador for their human rights advocacy movement which creates awareness for people living with disabilities in developing nations. Under a campaign titled ‘Create2Change’ Cawthorn travelled around India with a film crew to find stories of individuals living with a disability in the most poverty stricken communities.\n\nSam Cawthorn is a musician and one of the few people in the world able to play a guitar with an above elbow amputation.\n"}
{"id": "12088865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12088865", "title": "Scheme of arrangement", "text": "Scheme of arrangement\n\nA scheme of arrangement (or a \"scheme of reconstruction\") is a court-approved agreement between a company and its shareholders or creditors (e.g. lenders or debenture holders). It may affect mergers and amalgamations and may alter shareholder or creditor rights.\n\nSchemes of arrangement are used to execute arbitrary changes in the structure of a business and thus are used when a reorganisation cannot be achieved by other means. They may be used for rescheduling debt, for takeovers, and for returns of capital, among other purposes.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the relevant provisions for effecting a scheme of arrangement are found in the Companies Act 2006, Part 26 (ss.895-901) and Part 27 (special rules for public companies).\n\nIn Australia, the relevant provisions for effecting a scheme of arrangement or reconstruction are located in Part 5.1 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).\n\nIn South Africa, the relevant provisions for effecting a scheme of arrangement are found in the Companies Act 2008, No. 71 Of 2008, Sections 114 and 115.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6173188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6173188", "title": "Société anonyme libanaise", "text": "Société anonyme libanaise\n\n“Société anonyme libanaise,” abbreviated s.a.l., is the French term for a joint stock company in Lebanon. Its main characteristic is the \"\"—the financial involvement of each associate. \n\nA joint stock company is an association of funds contributed to by three or more persons. An s.a.l. must have at least three shareholders and capital of at least LL30,000,000. Ownership of shares in the company entitles the shareholder to membership in the company, a right to participate in management and a right to vote. These shares are negotiable or transferable. The liability of each shareholder is limited to the value of the shares held. The Board of Directors must set aside 10% of net profits to create a statutory reserve fund until such time as this reserve fund becomes equivalent to one-third of the capital of the company. A joint stock company must appoint an auditor.\n\nLebanese law does not provide for direct limitations on foreign interest in joint stock companies. The only indirect limitation is that the Board of Directors must have at least three Lebanese members out of the maximum twelve allowed. Another limitation is confined to joint stock companies whose object is the acquisition of and trading in real estate in Lebanon. In this case, 50 percent of the capital must be held by Lebanese nationals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44821814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44821814", "title": "Teleport (Staten Island)", "text": "Teleport (Staten Island)\n\nThe Teleport is a suburban-style 100-acre business park east of New York State Route 440 and west of the Bulls Head neighborhood on Staten Island in New York City. It includes five Class A office and specialized buildings totaling 700,000 square feet, as well as additional development-ready sites.\n\nThe Teleport was developed in the mid-1980s by the City of New York and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (PANYNJ), which manages it under contract to the city, focusing on new technologies and offering high-speed voice, data and video services via satellite and fiber optic connectivity.\n\nIn 2001 AT&T, the Teleport's biggest tenant, moved 4,000 employees out of two office buildings on the site. They were sold in 2009 to the Nicotra Group, LLC and renamed Corporate Commons, with a major tenant being the St Paul's School of Nursing.\n\nThe New York City Economic Development Corporation and the PANYNJ retain control over the available development acreage.\n\n"}
{"id": "35212329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35212329", "title": "The Continental NYC", "text": "The Continental NYC\n\nThe Continental NYC, originally known as Tower 111, is a 53-story, 338-unit luxury rental skyscraper designed by architect Costas Kondylis in the New York City borough of Manhattan at 885 Sixth Avenue and 32nd Street in Midtown Manhattan.\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "7216695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7216695", "title": "The Devil's Miner", "text": "The Devil's Miner\n\nThe Devil's Miner is a 2005 documentary film directed by independent film directors Kief Davidson and Richard Ladkani. The film follows a fourteen-year-old Bolivian boy named Basilio Vargas who along with his twelve-year-old brother Bernardino work in the mines near the city of Potosí. The film includes many subtle realities of the miner's lives such as the need to chew coca leaves to numb the pain of hunger and the long shifts they work regardless of age. The film made its world premier at the Rotterdam film festival and its U.S. debut at the Tribeca Film Festival.\n\nThe film concentrates on the concerns of local workers who have fear of what they call “Tio” or devil. In the film, an elder miner claims that over 8 million people have died in the unsafe mines. The workers believe this is because “Tio” controls the mine and that Christ has no power in the mine. The workers often give offerings such as coca leaves, alcohol, cigarettes and perform sacrifices, such as slaughtering a llama and applying its blood to the mine entrance to appease a makeshift statue of \"Tio\". Each mine has its own Tio which all of the workers pray to upon entering so that they may find a good vein of silver and so that they may be granted protection from explosions, toxic gas, silicosis, and falling rocks.The local Catholic priest is unable to tame these fears of “Tio” although the workers often pray at the church before entering the mine,upon observing the miners attending Mass, the local priest said that when he looked into the face of the miners he \"saw Christ dying\". The irony which is upon these people is one of great sorrow. They worship both God and the Devil, Light and Dark, The God of the world, and the god of the earthen mine below. \n\nAs of 2014, Basilio is studying tourism, working in the mines three nights a week, and working as a tour guide in the mines. Bernardino, now married, still works in the mines full-time whilst studying in the evenings. The boys no longer live on the mountain, however their mother remains in the same house.\n\n"}
{"id": "6268274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6268274", "title": "The Myth of Leadership", "text": "The Myth of Leadership\n\nThe Myth of Leadership: Creating Leaderless Organizations\nis a book written by former Brigham Young University lecturer Jeffrey Nielsen, who teaches philosophy at Westminster College, Salt Lake City, Utah and at Utah Valley University, Orem, Utah.\n\nThe book is based on Neilsen's concept of the \"myth of leadership.\"\n\nProfessor Nielsen argues that we frequently use the words \"leader\" and \"leadership\" metaphorically to refer to some talent or skill that is needed, which use does little damage as well as little good. However he adds, when we use the words formally to designate officially someone as a leader or some position as involving leadership, then we create unhealthy and deleterious organizational and community relationships.\n\nAs soon as we formally designate a leader, Nielsen argues, we set up within an organization a dichotomy: two groups - to one we assign duties, and to the other we assign privileges. We confer unique and powerful privileges upon the few leaders and specify numerous duties to be obeyed by the many followers. The followers, the vast majority, are consigned to an inferior status, even to be sacrificed, if needs be, to preserve and protect the power and privilege of those designated as leaders – whether through layoffs, war, tax cuts, or even welfare reform. To the leaders, the élite few, we grant the rights and privileges to command and control the vast resources, most importantly the information and decision-making power. There are no exceptions to this split between the privileged few and the burdened many – it will occur, Nielsen believes, in any and every organization that formally designates individuals as leaders and positions as leadership positions.\n\nJust as soon as we call someone the leader, Nielsen says, we have created a rank-based context that defines power as “power-over\", even to the extent of coercion and manipulation; authority as the right to exercise power in a command-and-control manner; and hierarchy as the means of transmission of authority from the top down through privileged delegation. There is no way to avoid this - it is inevitable. Professor Nielsen relates it to what Michel Foucault might have called the discourse formation of the concept of leadership, and it is what Stephen Austin would call the speech act of leader.\n\nThe myth of leadership creates a rank-based culture where the leaders possess special privilege to speak and the followers possess an unreciprocated obligation to listen; where the leaders are entitled to monopolize information, control decision-making, and command obedience, thus establishing a culture of secrecy and inauthentic communication. The myth of leadership justifies an organization, whether political, religious, or corporate where:\n\nThe implications of the peer principle\nrequire that the following values be recognized, respected, and implemented:\n\n"}
{"id": "8261364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8261364", "title": "Vertical agreement", "text": "Vertical agreement\n\nA vertical agreement is a term used in competition law to denote agreements between firms at different levels of the supply chain. For instance, a manufacturer of consumer electronics might have a vertical agreement with a retailer according to which the latter would promote their products in return for lower prices. Franchising is a form of vertical agreement, and under European Union competition law this falls within the scope of Article 101.\n\nWhether a vertical agreement actually restricts competition and whether in that case the benefits outweigh the anti-competitive effects will often depend on the market structure.\n\nVertical agreements that fulfil the conditions for exemption and do not contain any so-called \"hardcore restrictions\" of competition are exempted from the prohibition in Article 101(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union by Regulation 330/2010 \n. The main exception is agreements for motor vehicle distribution, which remain subject to Regulation 1400/2002 until 31 May 2013, pursuant to a three-year extension granted in Regulation 461/2010. Although this latter regulation applies Regulation 330/2010 to agreements for the repair of motor vehicles and for the distribution of spare parts as of 1 June 2013, it also supplements Regulation 330 with three additional \"hardcore\" clauses\n\n"}
{"id": "12426326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12426326", "title": "Widener family", "text": "Widener family\n\nThe American Widener family of Peter Arrell Brown Widener (1834–1915) and his wife Hannah Josephine Dunton (1836–1896) were from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and were one of the wealthiest families in the United States. In 1883 Widener was part of the founding partnership of the Philadelphia Traction Company and used the great wealth accumulated from that business to become a founding organizer of U.S. Steel and the American Tobacco Company.\n\nThe legacy of Peter and Hannah Widener includes the Widener Library at Harvard University but even more important was the implanting of a social conscience in their children that has been passed down from generation to generation. While the family fortune dwindled over time through estate taxes and the natural division and redivision by inheritors, many of their 21st century descendants continue to be involved in charitable works. Widener University in Chester, Pennsylvania, is named after the Wideners as a result of a very large contribution the family made when the college was transitioning from an all-male military college to a co-educational civilian university.\n\nPeter and Hannah Widener built Lynnewood Hall in Elkins Park, Pennsylvania, a 110-room Georgian-style mansion designed by Horace Trumbauer where they assembled one of the most valuable art collections in the country. Left a vast fortune, their offspring became one of the most prominent factors in American Thoroughbred horse racing history as well as founding benefactors of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., Widener University in Chester, Pennsylvania, and the Widener School for Crippled Children.\n\nThe descendants of Peter Arrell Brown Widener and Hannah Josephine Dunton include:\n\nWidener related subjects:\n\n"}
{"id": "1404298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1404298", "title": "Wrecking (Soviet Union)", "text": "Wrecking (Soviet Union)\n\nWrecking ( or \"vreditel'stvo\", lit. \"inflicting damage\", \"harming\"), was a crime specified in the criminal code of the Soviet Union in the Stalin era. It is often translated as \"sabotage\"; however, \"wrecking\", \"diversionist acts\", and \"counter-revolutionary sabotage\" were distinct sub-articles of Article 58 (RSFSR Penal Code) (58-7, 58-9, and 58-14 respectively), and the meaning of \"wrecking\" is closer to \"undermining\".\n\nThese three categories were distinguished in the following way:\n\n\nAs applied in practice, \"wrecking\" and \"sabotage\" referred to any action which negatively affected the economy, including failing to meet unrealistic economic targets, allegedly causing poor morale among subordinates (e.g. by complaining about conditions of work), lack of effort, or other incompetence. Thus, it referred to economic or industrial sabotage in the very broadest sense. The definition of sabotage was interpreted dialectically and indirectly, so any form of non-compliance with Party directives could have been considered a 'sabotage'.\n\nOne of the show trials involving charges of \"wrecking\" was that of official coordinators of the 1937 Soviet Census. The census was organised with great expectations from the government that it would confirm the superiority of the Soviet economic and social model, with Stalin publicly declaring in 1934 that the Soviet Union was gaining at least 3 million citizens per year. The census questions and procedure were prepared for several years by a commission of professional statisticians and demographers, but then significantly changed by Stalin and other members of the Central Committee to better match their political goals – the collection phase of the census was shortened and the procedures simplified. The results obtained from the census were at least 8 million people short of the expected outcome and immediately classified. The formal organizers were accused of \"wrecking\" and sent to camps, and the shortage was officially presented as caused by their negligence and intentional sabotage. The actual measurement error, as estimated by statisticians in the 1990s, did not exceed 1.5% and such a disappointing result was caused by the huge loss of life that occurred during collectivization, the Famine of 1932–1933, including in the Ukraine (Holodomor), and the mortality rates in the Gulag.\n\nAleksandr Solzhenitsyn, in his historical account of the prison camps of the Soviet Union, \"The Gulag Archipelago\", describes Nikolai von Meck (son of Karl and Nadezhda von Meck, patroness of Tchaikovsky), an engineer who advised heavier-than-average loads being placed on freight trains for the betterment of the economy. He was accused of being a wrecker and shot – his supposed crime being having overloaded the trains for the purpose of wearing out the rails faster.\n\nIn Harry Turtledove's 2015 alternate history novel \"Joe Steele\", set in a timeline where Stalin (known as \"Joe Steele\") was born in the United States and becomes President in 1932, \"wrecking\" becomes a federal crime, resulting in numerous people being imprisoned and in some cases executed for it, with the equivalent of Gulags being located in Wyoming, Colorado, Montana, New Mexico, North Dakota, and the Territory of Alaska.\n"}
{"id": "37105477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37105477", "title": "Yasser ElKady", "text": "Yasser ElKady\n\nYasser ElKady ياسر القاضي was the Minister of Communications and Information Technology in Egypt between 19 September 2015 and 14 June 2018. ElKady has been in the IT and Telecom industry for over 25 years with solid experience in strategic planning, technology integration, business development and organizational transformation.\n\nAfter earning a bachelor's degree in Electronics and Data Communications Engineering from Cairo University.\n\nIn January 2014, ElKady held the position of the Regional Director for HP Networking in the Middle East, Mediterranean and Africa (MEMA) for HP Egypt.\n\nFrom October 2010 to January 2014, he was the CEO of the Egyptian Information Technology Industry Development Agency(ITIDA) leading its efforts to develop the IT industry in Egypt, achieving export revenue of USD 1.4 billion and maintaining healthy growth margins for local IT vendors in the economic downturn following the revolution.\n\nThroughout his career, ElKady spearheaded a number of national developmental initiatives. As a first deputy to the Minister of Investment, he led Egypt Investment promotion efforts, and supervised strategic investment projects worth USD 16 billion; he also contributed to developing the national ICT and innovation strategy, as a board member in ITIDA, and a member in the Ministry of ICT advisory board.\n\nBefore joining the government ElKady led several notable, highly successful enterprises through periods of significant growth. He started Cisco Egypt from ground up and grew the business by 70-fold. He then led Cisco’s strategy and business development efforts in MEA and Emerging Markets to realize 40% Y-to-Y growth and a business worth USD 750 million. He managed to establish Orascom IIS as the first communication supplier in Egypt, and led Jeraisy Co. to double its market share in a year time.\n\nElKady’s expertise has been the reason for his selection as a board member in key economic and developmental institutions including Egypt’s General Authority for Investment and Free Zones (GAFI), the advisory board of the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, Credit Agricole Egypt and Information Technology Industry development Agency prior to his appointment as the CEO.\n\nHe was awarded the Algerian Government Country Transformation Award (2006), the Jordan Education Initiative certificate of excellence (2005), and The Palestinian Telecom Organization reform recognition (2005). Throughout his career at Cisco, he has been recognized as the Country Manager of the year for 2 consecutive years, in addition to a number of other awards for Team Building, Thought Leadership, and Outstanding performance.\n\nLeading ITIDA efforts to develop the IT industry in Egypt\nOverseeing the Ministry’s investment promotion initiatives, and strategic investment projects worth USD 16 billion.\nLeading Cisco’s Strategy and Business Development efforts in 60 countries in the Middle East, Africa, and Emerging Markets, achieving 40% Year-on-Year growth and a business worth of USD 750 million.\nDriving Cisco’s business in the region to reach USD 450 million, and maintaining 30% YoY Growth rates\n\n"}
