{"id": "6054740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6054740", "title": "1989 Taufiqiah Al-Khairiah madrasa fire", "text": "1989 Taufiqiah Al-Khairiah madrasa fire\n\nOn 22 September 1989, a fire took place at Taufiqiah Al-Khairiah madrasa (also known as Madrasah Pondok Pak Ya) in Guar Chempedak, Kedah, Malaysia. Around 27 students who are mostly girls were killed in the incident. All victims bodies later were buried in a special Muslim cemetery at Padang Lumat as the \"27 Syuhada Peristiwa Kebakaran Pondok Pak Ya\" (27 Martyrs of the Taufiqiah Al-Khairiah madrasa fire).\n\n"}
{"id": "6834103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6834103", "title": "Acacia concinna", "text": "Acacia concinna\n\nAcacia concinna is a climbing shrub native to Asia, common in the warm plains of central and south India. The tree is food for the larvae of the butterfly \"Pantoporia hordonia\". Alkaloids are found in the tree's fruit.\n\n\"Acacia concinna\" has been used traditionally for hair care in the Indian Subcontinent since ancient times. It is one of the Ayurvedic medicinal plants. It is traditionally used as a shampoo. In order to prepare it the fruit pods, leaves and bark of the plant are dried, ground into a powder, then made into a paste. While this traditional shampoo does not produce the normal amount of lather that a sulfate-containing shampoo would, it is considered a good cleanser. It is mild, having a naturally low pH, and doesn't strip hair of natural oils. Usually no conditioner is needed, for shikakai also acts as a detangler.\nAn infusion of the leaves has been used in anti-dandruff preparations.\n\n\"A. concinna\" extracts are used in natural shampoos or hair powders and the tree is now grown commercially in India and Far East Asia. The plant parts used for the dry powder or the extract are the bark, leaves or pods. The bark contains high levels of saponins, which are foaming agents found in several other plant species used as shampoos or soaps. Saponin-containing plants have a long history of use as mild cleaning agents. Saponins from the plant's pods have been traditionally used as a detergent, and in Bengal for poisoning fish; they are documented to be potent marine toxins.\n\nAn infusion of the leaves of \"A. concinna\" has also been used for therapy of jaundice in the traditional Indian medicine.\n\nThe leaves have an acidic taste and are used in chutneys.\n\nIn commercial extracts, when the plant is hydrolyzed it yields lupeol, spinasterol, acacic acid, lactone, and the natural sugars glucose, arabinose and rhamnose. It also contains hexacosanol, spinasterone, oxalic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, succinic acid, ascorbic acid, and the alkaloids calyctomine and nicotine.\n"}
{"id": "85385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85385", "title": "Atherosclerosis", "text": "Atherosclerosis\n\nAtherosclerosis is a disease in which the inside of an artery narrows due to the build up of plaque. Initially, there are generally no symptoms. When severe, it can result in coronary artery disease, stroke, peripheral artery disease, or kidney problems, depending on which arteries are affected. Symptoms, if they occur, generally do not begin until middle age.\nThe exact cause is not known. Risk factors include abnormal cholesterol levels, high blood pressure, diabetes, smoking, obesity, family history, and an unhealthy diet. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. The narrowing of arteries limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to parts of the body. Diagnosis is based upon a physical exam, electrocardiogram, and exercise stress test, among others.\nPrevention is generally by eating a healthy diet, exercising, not smoking, and maintaining a normal weight. Treatment of established disease may include medications to lower cholesterol such as statins, blood pressure medication, or medications that decrease clotting, such as aspirin. A number of procedures may also be carried out such as percutaneous coronary intervention, coronary artery bypass graft, or carotid endarterectomy.\nAtherosclerosis generally starts when a person is young and worsens with age. Almost all people are affected to some degree by the age of 65. Atherosclerosis is the number one cause of death and disability in the developed world. Atherosclerosis was first described in 1575. There is evidence, however, that the condition occurred in people more than 5,000 years ago.\nThe following terms are similar, yet distinct, in both spelling and meaning, and can be easily confused: arteriosclerosis, arteriolosclerosis, and atherosclerosis. \"Arteriosclerosis\" is a general term describing any hardening (and loss of elasticity) of medium or large arteries (); \"arteriolosclerosis\" is any hardening (and loss of elasticity) of arterioles (small arteries); \"atherosclerosis\" is a hardening of an artery specifically due to an atheromatous plaque (). The term \"atherogenic\" is used for substances or processes that cause formation of atheroma.\n\nAtherosclerosis is asymptomatic for decades because the arteries enlarge at all plaque locations, thus there is no effect on blood flow. Even most plaque ruptures do not produce symptoms until enough narrowing or closure of an artery, due to clots, occurs. Signs and symptoms only occur after severe narrowing or closure impedes blood flow to different organs enough to induce symptoms. Most of the time, patients realize that they have the disease only when they experience other cardiovascular disorders such as stroke or heart attack. These symptoms, however, still vary depending on which artery or organ is affected.\n\nTypically, atherosclerosis begins in childhood, as a thin layer of white-yellowish streaks with the inner layers of the artery walls (an accumulation of white blood cells, mostly monocytes/macrophages) and progresses from there.\n\nClinically, given enlargement of the arteries for decades, symptomatic atherosclerosis is typically associated with men in their 40s and women in their 50s to 60s. Sub-clinically, the disease begins to appear in childhood, and rarely is already present at birth. Noticeable signs can begin developing at puberty. Though symptoms are rarely exhibited in children, early screening of children for cardiovascular diseases could be beneficial to both the child and his/her relatives. While coronary artery disease is more prevalent in men than women, atherosclerosis of the cerebral arteries and strokes equally affect both sexes.\n\nMarked narrowing in the coronary arteries, which are responsible for bringing oxygenated blood to the heart, can produce symptoms such as the chest pain of angina and shortness of breath, sweating, nausea, dizziness or light-headedness, breathlessness or palpitations. Abnormal heart rhythms called arrhythmias—the heart beating either too slowly or too quickly—are another consequence of ischemia.\n\nCarotid arteries supply blood to the brain and neck. Marked narrowing of the carotid arteries can present with symptoms such as a feeling of weakness, not being able to think straight, difficulty speaking, becoming dizzy and difficulty in walking or standing up straight, blurred vision, numbness of the face, arms, and legs, severe headache and losing consciousness. These symptoms are also related to stroke (death of brain cells). Stroke is caused by marked narrowing or closure of arteries going to the brain; lack of adequate blood supply leads to the death of the cells of the affected tissue.\n\nPeripheral arteries, which supply blood to the legs, arms, and pelvis, also experience marked narrowing due to plaque rupture and clots. Symptoms for the marked narrowing are numbness within the arms or legs, as well as pain. Another significant location for the plaque formation is the renal arteries, which supply blood to the kidneys. Plaque occurrence and accumulation leads to decreased kidney blood flow and chronic kidney disease, which, like all other areas, are typically asymptomatic until late stages.\n\nAccording to United States data for 2004, in about 66% of men and 47% of women, the first symptom of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease is a heart attack or sudden cardiac death (death within one hour of onset of the symptom).\nCardiac stress testing, traditionally the most commonly performed non-invasive testing method for blood flow limitations, in general, detects only lumen narrowing of ≈75% or greater, although some physicians claim that nuclear stress methods can detect as little as 50%.\n\nCase studies have included autopsies of U.S. soldiers killed in World War II and the Korean War. A much-cited report involved autopsies of 300 U.S. soldiers killed in Korea. Although the average age of the men was 22.1 years, 77.3 percent had \"gross evidence of coronary arteriosclerosis\". Other studies done of soldiers in the Vietnam War showed similar results, although often worse than the ones from the earlier wars. Theories include high rates of tobacco use and (in the case of the Vietnam soldiers) the advent of processed foods after World War II.\n\nThe atherosclerotic process is not fully understood. Atherosclerosis is initiated by inflammatory processes in the endothelial cells of the vessel wall associated with retained low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particles. This retention may be a cause, an effect, or both, of the underlying inflammatory process.\n\nThe presence of the plaque induces the muscle cells of the blood vessel to stretch, compensating for the additional bulk, and the endothelial lining thickens, increasing the separation between the plaque and lumen. This somewhat offsets the narrowing caused by the growth of the plaque, but it causes the wall to stiffen and become less compliant to stretching with each heart beat.\n\n\n\n\nThe relation between dietary fat and atherosclerosis is controversial. Writing in \"Science\", Gary Taubes detailed that political considerations played into the recommendations of government bodies. The USDA, in its food pyramid, promotes a diet of about 64% carbohydrates from total calories. The American Heart Association, the American Diabetes Association and the National Cholesterol Education Program make similar recommendations. In contrast, Prof Walter Willett (Harvard School of Public Health, PI of the second Nurses' Health Study) recommends much higher levels of fat, especially of monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fat. These dietary recommendations reach a consensus, though, against consumption of trans fats.\n\nThe role of dietary oxidized fats/lipid peroxidation (rancid fats) in humans is not clear.\nLaboratory animals fed rancid fats develop atherosclerosis. Rats fed DHA-containing oils experienced marked disruptions to their antioxidant systems, and accumulated significant amounts of phospholipid hydroperoxide in their blood, livers and kidneys.\n\nRabbits fed atherogenic diets containing various oils were found to undergo the greatest amount of oxidative susceptibility of LDL via polyunsaturated oils. In another study, rabbits fed heated soybean oil \"grossly induced atherosclerosis and marked liver damage were histologically and clinically demonstrated.\" However, Fred Kummerow claims that it is not dietary cholesterol, but oxysterols, or oxidized cholesterols, from fried foods and smoking, that are the culprit.\n\nRancid fats and oils taste very bad even in small amounts, so people avoid eating them.\nIt is very difficult to measure or estimate the actual human consumption of these substances. Highly unsaturated omega-3 rich oils such as fish oil are being sold in pill form so that the taste of oxidized or rancid fat is not apparent. The health food industry's dietary supplements are self-regulated and outside of FDA regulations. To properly protect unsaturated fats from oxidation, it is best to keep them cool and in oxygen-free environments.\n\nAtherogenesis is the developmental process of atheromatous plaques. It is characterized by a remodeling of arteries leading to subendothelial accumulation of fatty substances called plaques. The buildup of an atheromatous plaque is a slow process, developed over a period of several years through a complex series of cellular events occurring within the arterial wall and in response to a variety of local vascular circulating factors. One recent hypothesis suggests that, for unknown reasons, leukocytes, such as monocytes or basophils, begin to attack the endothelium of the artery lumen in cardiac muscle. The ensuing inflammation leads to formation of atheromatous plaques in the arterial tunica intima, a region of the vessel wall located between the endothelium and the tunica media. The bulk of these lesions is made of excess fat, collagen, and elastin. At first, as the plaques grow, only wall thickening occurs without any narrowing. Stenosis is a late event, which may never occur and is often the result of repeated plaque rupture and healing responses, not just the atherosclerotic process by itself.\n\nEarly atherogenesis is characterized by the adherence of blood circulating monocytes (a type of white blood cell) to the vascular bed lining, the endothelium, then by their migration to the sub-endothelial space, and further activation into monocyte-derived macrophages. The primary documented driver of this process is oxidized lipoprotein particles within the wall, beneath the endothelial cells, though upper normal or elevated concentrations of blood glucose also plays a major role and not all factors are fully understood. Fatty streaks may appear and disappear.\n\nLow-density lipoprotein (LDL) particles in blood plasma invade the endothelium and become oxidized, creating risk of cardiovascular disease. A complex set of biochemical reactions regulates the oxidation of LDL, involving enzymes (such as Lp-LpA2) and free radicals in the endothelium.\n\nInitial damage to the endothelium results in an inflammatory response. Monocytes enter the artery wall from the bloodstream, with platelets adhering to the area of insult. This may be promoted by redox signaling induction of factors such as VCAM-1, which recruit circulating monocytes, and M-CSF, which is selectively required for the differentiation of monocytes to macrophages. The monocytes differentiate into macrophages, which proliferate locally, ingest oxidized LDL, slowly turning into large \"foam cells\" – so-called because of their changed appearance resulting from the numerous internal cytoplasmic vesicles and resulting high lipid content. Under the microscope, the lesion now appears as a fatty streak. Foam cells eventually die and further propagate the inflammatory process.\n\nIn addition to these cellular activities, there is also smooth muscle proliferation and migration from the tunica media into the intima in response to cytokines secreted by damaged endothelial cells. This causes the formation of a fibrous capsule covering the fatty streak. Intact endothelium can prevent this smooth muscle proliferation by releasing nitric oxide.\n\nCalcification forms among vascular smooth muscle cells of the surrounding muscular layer, specifically in the muscle cells adjacent to atheromas and on the surface of atheroma plaques and tissue. In time, as cells die, this leads to extracellular calcium deposits between the muscular wall and outer portion of the atheromatous plaques. With the atheromatous plaque interfering with the regulation of the calcium deposition, it accumulates and crystallizes. A similar form of an intramural calcification, presenting the picture of an early phase of arteriosclerosis, appears to be induced by a number of drugs that have an antiproliferative mechanism of action (Rainer Liedtke 2008).\n\nCholesterol is delivered into the vessel wall by cholesterol-containing low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particles. To attract and stimulate macrophages, the cholesterol must be released from the LDL particles and oxidized, a key step in the ongoing inflammatory process. The process is worsened if there is insufficient high-density lipoprotein (HDL), the lipoprotein particle that removes cholesterol from tissues and carries it back to the liver.\n\nThe foam cells and platelets encourage the migration and proliferation of smooth muscle cells, which in turn ingest lipids, become replaced by collagen and transform into foam cells themselves. A protective fibrous cap normally forms between the fatty deposits and the artery lining (the intima).\n\nThese capped fatty deposits (now called 'atheromas') produce enzymes that cause the artery to enlarge over time. As long as the artery enlarges sufficiently to compensate for the extra thickness of the atheroma, then no narrowing (\"stenosis\") of the opening (\"lumen\") occurs. The artery becomes expanded with an egg-shaped cross-section, still with a circular opening. If the enlargement is beyond proportion to the atheroma thickness, then an aneurysm is created.\n\nAlthough arteries are not typically studied microscopically, two plaque types can be distinguished:\n\n\nIn effect, the muscular portion of the artery wall forms small aneurysms just large enough to hold the atheroma that are present. The muscular portion of artery walls usually remain strong, even after they have remodeled to compensate for the atheromatous plaques.\n\nHowever, atheromas within the vessel wall are soft and fragile with little elasticity. Arteries constantly expand and contract with each heartbeat, i.e., the pulse. In addition, the calcification deposits between the outer portion of the atheroma and the muscular wall, as they progress, lead to a loss of elasticity and stiffening of the artery as a whole.\n\nThe calcification deposits, after they have become sufficiently advanced, are partially visible on coronary artery computed tomography or electron beam tomography (EBT) as rings of increased radiographic density, forming halos around the outer edges of the atheromatous plaques, within the artery wall. On CT, >130 units on the Hounsfield scale (some argue for 90 units) has been the radiographic density usually accepted as clearly representing tissue calcification within arteries. These deposits demonstrate unequivocal evidence of the disease, relatively advanced, even though the lumen of the artery is often still normal by angiography.\n\nAlthough the disease process tends to be slowly progressive over decades, it usually remains asymptomatic until an atheroma ulcerates, which leads to immediate blood clotting at the site of atheroma ulcer. This triggers a cascade of events that leads to clot enlargement, which may quickly obstruct the flow of blood. A complete blockage leads to ischemia of the myocardial (heart) muscle and damage. This process is the myocardial infarction or \"heart attack\".\n\nIf the heart attack is not fatal, fibrous organization of the clot within the lumen ensues, covering the rupture but also producing stenosis or closure of the lumen, or over time and after repeated ruptures, resulting in a persistent, usually localized stenosis or blockage of the artery lumen. Stenoses can be slowly progressive, whereas plaque ulceration is a sudden event that occurs specifically in atheromas with thinner/weaker fibrous caps that have become \"unstable\".\n\nRepeated plaque ruptures, ones not resulting in total lumen closure, combined with the clot patch over the rupture and healing response to stabilize the clot is the process that produces most stenoses over time. The stenotic areas tend to become more stable despite increased flow velocities at these narrowings. Most major blood-flow-stopping events occur at large plaques, which, prior to their rupture, produced very little if any stenosis.\n\nFrom clinical trials, 20% is the average stenosis at plaques that subsequently rupture with resulting complete artery closure. Most severe clinical events do not occur at plaques that produce high-grade stenosis. From clinical trials, only 14% of heart attacks occur from artery closure at plaques producing a 75% or greater stenosis prior to the vessel closing.\n\nIf the fibrous cap separating a soft atheroma from the bloodstream within the artery ruptures, tissue fragments are exposed and released. These tissue fragments are very clot-promoting, containing collagen and tissue factor; they activate platelets and activate the system of coagulation. The result is the formation of a thrombus (blood clot) overlying the atheroma, which obstructs blood flow acutely. With the obstruction of blood flow, downstream tissues are starved of oxygen and nutrients. If this is the myocardium (heart muscle) angina (cardiac chest pain) or myocardial infarction (heart attack) develops.\n\nThe distribution of atherosclerotic plaques in a part of arterial endothelium is inhomogeneous. The multiple and focal development of atherosclerotic changes is similar to that in the development of amyloid plaques in the brain and that of age spots on the skin. Misrepair-accumulation aging theory suggests that misrepair mechanisms play an important role in the focal development of atherosclerosis. Development of a plaque is a result of repair of injured endothelium. Because of the infusion of lipids into sub-endothelium, the repair has to end up with altered remodeling of local endothelium. This is the manifestation of a misrepair. Important is this altered remodeling makes the local endothelium have increased fragility to damage and have reduced repair-efficiency. As a consequence, this part of endothelium has increased risk to be injured and to be misrepaired. Thus, the accumulation of misrepairs of endothelium is focalized and self-accelerating. In this way, the growing of a plaque is also self-accelerating. Within a part of arterial wall, the oldest plaque is always the biggest, and is the most dangerous one to cause blockage of local artery.\n\nThe plaque is divided into three distinct components:\n\nApart from thromboembolism, chronically expanding atherosclerotic lesions can cause complete closure of the lumen. Chronically expanding lesions are often asymptomatic until lumen stenosis is so severe (usually over 80%) that blood supply to downstream tissue(s) is insufficient, resulting in ischemia. These complications of advanced atherosclerosis are chronic, slowly progressive and cumulative. Most commonly, soft plaque suddenly ruptures (see vulnerable plaque), causing the formation of a thrombus that will rapidly slow or stop blood flow, leading to death of the tissues fed by the artery in approximately five minutes. This event is called an infarction.\n\nAreas of severe narrowing, stenosis, detectable by angiography, and to a lesser extent \"stress testing\" have long been the focus of human diagnostic techniques for cardiovascular disease, in general. However, these methods focus on detecting only severe narrowing, not the underlying atherosclerosis disease. As demonstrated by human clinical studies, most severe events occur in locations with heavy plaque, yet little or no lumen narrowing present before debilitating events suddenly occur. Plaque rupture can lead to artery lumen occlusion within seconds to minutes, and potential permanent debility and sometimes sudden death.\n\nPlaques that have ruptured are called complicated plaques. The extracellular matrix of the lesion breaks, usually at the shoulder of the fibrous cap that separates the lesion from the arterial lumen, where the exposed thrombogenic components of the plaque, mainly collagen will trigger thrombus formation. The thrombus then travels downstream to other blood vessels, where the blood clot may partially or completely block blood flow. If the blood flow is completely blocked, cell deaths occur due to the lack of oxygen supply to nearby cells, resulting in necrosis. The narrowing or obstruction of blood flow can occur in any artery within the body. Obstruction of arteries supplying the heart muscle results in a heart attack, while the obstruction of arteries supplying the brain results in an ischaemic stroke.\nLumen stenosis that is greater than 75% was considered the hallmark of clinically significant disease in the past because recurring episodes of angina and abnormalities in stress tests are only detectable at that particular severity of stenosis.\nHowever, clinical trials have shown that only about 14% of clinically debilitating events occur at sites with more than 75% stenosis. The majority of cardiovascular events that involve sudden rupture of the atheroma plaque do not display any evident narrowing of the lumen.\nThus, greater attention has been focused on \"vulnerable plaque\" from the late 1990s onwards.\n\nBesides the traditional diagnostic methods such as angiography and stress-testing, other detection techniques have been developed in the past decades for earlier detection of atherosclerotic disease. Some of the detection approaches include anatomical detection and physiologic measurement.\n\nExamples of anatomical detection methods include coronary calcium scoring by CT, carotid IMT (intimal media thickness) measurement by ultrasound, and intravascular ultrasound (IVUS). Examples of physiologic measurement methods include lipoprotein subclass analysis, HbA1c, hs-CRP, and homocysteine.\nBoth anatomic and physiologic methods allow early detection before symptoms show up, disease staging and tracking of disease progression. Anatomic methods are more expensive and some of them are invasive in nature, such as IVUS. On the other hand, physiologic methods are often less expensive and safer. But they do not quantify the current state of the disease or directly track progression. In recent years, developments in nuclear imaging techniques such as PET and SPECT have provided ways of estimating the severity of atherosclerotic plaques.\n\nUp to 90% of cardiovascular disease may be preventable if established risk factors are avoided. Medical management of atherosclerosis first involves modification to risk factors–for example, via smoking cessation and diet restrictions. Prevention then is generally by eating a healthy diet, exercising, not smoking, and maintaining a normal weight.\n\nChanges in diet may help prevent the development of atherosclerosis. Tentative evidence suggests that a diet containing dairy products has no effect on or decreases the risk of cardiovascular disease.\n\nA diet high in fruits and vegetables decreases the risk of cardiovascular disease and death. Evidence suggests that the Mediterranean diet may improve cardiovascular results. There is also evidence that a Mediterranean diet may be better than a low-fat diet in bringing about long-term changes to cardiovascular risk factors (e.g., lower cholesterol level and blood pressure).\n\nA controlled exercise program combats atherosclerosis by improving circulation and functionality of the vessels. Exercise is also used to manage weight in patients who are obese, lower blood pressure, and decrease cholesterol. Often lifestyle modification is combined with medication therapy. For example, statins help to lower cholesterol, antiplatelet medications like aspirin help to prevent clots, and a variety of antihypertensive medications are routinely used to control blood pressure. If the combined efforts of risk factor modification and medication therapy are not sufficient to control symptoms, or fight imminent threats of ischemic events, a physician may resort to interventional or surgical procedures to correct the obstruction.\n\nTreatment of established disease may include medications to lower cholesterol such as statins, blood pressure medication, or medications that decrease clotting, such as aspirin. A number of procedures may also be carried out such as percutaneous coronary intervention, coronary artery bypass graft, or carotid endarterectomy.\n\nMedical treatments often focus on alleviating symptoms. However measures which focus on decreasing underlying atherosclerosis—as opposed to simply treating symptoms—are more effective. Non-pharmaceutical means are usually the first method of treatment, such as stopping smoking and practicing regular exercise. If these methods do not work, medicines are usually the next step in treating cardiovascular diseases and, with improvements, have increasingly become the most effective method over the long term.\n\nThe key to the more effective approaches is to combine multiple different treatment strategies. In addition, for those approaches, such as lipoprotein transport behaviors, which have been shown to produce the most success, adopting more aggressive combination treatment strategies taken on a daily basis and indefinitely has generally produced better results, both before and especially after people are symptomatic.\n\nThe group of medications referred to as statins are widely prescribed for treating atherosclerosis. They have shown benefit in reducing cardiovascular disease and mortality in those with high cholesterol with few side effects.\n\nThese data are primarily in middle-age men and the conclusions are less clear for women and people over the age of 70.\n\nWhen atherosclerosis has become severe and caused irreversible ischemia, such as tissue loss in the case of peripheral artery disease, surgery may be indicated. Vascular bypass surgery can re-establish flow around the diseased segment of artery, and angioplasty with or without stenting can reopen narrowed arteries and improve bloodflow. Coronary artery bypass grafting without manipulation of the ascending aorta has demonstrated reduced rates of postoperative stroke and mortality compared to traditional on-pump coronary revascularization.\n\nThere is evidence that some anticoagulants, particularly warfarin, which inhibit clot formation by interfering with Vitamin K metabolism, may actually promote arterial calcification in the long term despite reducing clot formation in the short term.\n\nDiabetics, despite not having clinically detectable atherosclerotic disease, have more severe debility from atherosclerotic events over time than non-diabetics who have already had atherosclerotic events. Thus diabetes has been upgraded to be viewed as an advanced atherosclerotic disease equivalent.\n\nAn indication of the role of HDL on atherosclerosis has been with the rare Apo-A1 Milano human genetic variant of this HDL protein. A small short-term trial using bacterial synthetized human Apo-A1 Milano HDL in people with unstable angina produced fairly dramatic reduction in measured coronary plaque volume in only six weeks vs. the usual increase in plaque volume in those randomized to placebo. The trial was published in \"JAMA\" in early 2006. Ongoing work starting in the 1990s may lead to human clinical trials—probably by about 2008. These may use synthesized Apo-A1 Milano HDL directly, or they may use gene-transfer methods to pass the ability to synthesize the Apo-A1 Milano HDLipoprotein. \n\nMethods to increase high-density lipoprotein (HDL) particle concentrations, which in some animal studies largely reverses and remove atheromas, are being developed and researched. However, increasing HDL by any means is not necessarily helpful. For example, the drug torcetrapib is the most effective agent currently known for raising HDL (by up to 60%). However, in clinical trials it also raised deaths by 60%. All studies regarding this drug were halted in December 2006. See CETP inhibitor for similar approaches.\n\nThe actions of macrophages drive atherosclerotic plaque progression.\n\"Immunomodulation of atherosclerosis\" is the term for techniques that modulate immune system function to suppress this macrophage action.\n\nResearch on genetic expression and control mechanisms is progressing. Topics include:\n\nInvolvement of lipid peroxidation chain reaction in atherogenesis triggered research on the protective role of the heavy isotope (deuterated) polyunsaturated fatty acids (D-PUFAs) that are less prone to oxidation than ordinary PUFAs (H-PUFAs). PUFAs are essential nutrients – they are involved in metabolism in that very form as they are consumed with food. In transgenic mice, that are a model for human-like lipoprotein metabolism, adding D-PUFAs to diet indeed reduced body weight gain, improved cholesterol handling and reduced atherosclerotic damage to aorta.\n\nMicroRNAs (miRNAs) have complementary sequences in the 3' UTR and 5' UTR of target mRNAs of protein-coding genes, and cause mRNA cleavage or repression of translational machinery. In diseased vascular vessels, miRNAs are dysregulated and highly expressed. miR-33 is found in cardiovascular diseases. It is involved in atherosclerotic initiation and progression including lipid metabolism, insulin signaling and glucose homeostatis, cell type progression and proliferation, and myeloid cell differentiation. It was found in rodents that the inhibition of miR-33 will raise HDL level and the expression of miR-33 is down-regulated in humans with atherosclerotic plaques.\n\nmiR-33a and miR-33b are located on intron 16 of human sterol regulatory element-binding protein 2 (SREBP2) gene on chromosome 22 and intron 17 of SREBP1 gene on chromosome 17. miR-33a/b regulates cholesterol/lipid homeostatis by binding in the 3’UTRs of genes involved in cholesterol transport such as ATP binding cassette (ABC) transporters and enhance or represses its expression. Study have shown that ABCA1 mediates transport of cholesterol from peripheral tissues to Apolipoprotein-1 and it is also important in the reverse cholesterol transport pathway, where cholesterol is delivered from peripheral tissue to the liver, where it can be excreted into bile or converted to bile acids prior to excretion. Therefore, we know that ABCA1 plays an important role in preventing cholesterol accumulation in macrophages. By enhancing miR-33 function, the level of ABCA1 is decreased, leading to decrease cellular cholesterol efflux to apoA-1. On the other hand, by inhibiting miR-33 function, the level of ABCA1 is increased and increases the cholesterol efflux to apoA-1. Suppression of miR-33 will lead to less cellular cholesterol and higher plasma HDL level through the regulation of ABCA1 expression.\n\nThe sugar, cyclodextrin, removed cholesterol that had built up in the arteries of mice fed a high-fat diet.\n\nAging is the most important risk factor for cardiovascular problems. The causative basis by which aging mediates its impact, independently of other recognized risk factors, remains to be determined. Evidence has been reviewed for a key role of DNA damage in vascular aging. \n8-oxoG, a common type of oxidative damage in DNA, is found to accumulate in plaque vascular smooth muscle cells, macrophages and endothelial cells, thus linking DNA damage to plaque formation. DNA strand breaks also increased in atherosclerotic plaques. Werner syndrome (WS) is a premature aging condition in humans. WS is caused by a genetic defect in a RecQ helicase that is employed in several repair processes that remove damages from DNA. WS patients develop a considerable burden of atherosclerotic plaques in their coronary arteries and aorta: calcification of the aortic valve is also frequently observed. These findings link excessive unrepaired DNA damage to premature aging and early atherosclerotic plaque development (see DNA damage theory of aging).\n\nThe microbiota – all the microorganisms in the body, can contribute to atherosclerosis in many ways: modulation of the immune system, changes in metabolism, processing of nutrients and production of certain metabolites that can get into blood circulation. One such metabolite, produced by gut bacteria, is trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO). Its levels have been associated with atherosclerosis in human studies and animal research suggest that there can be a causal relation. An association between the bacterial genes encoding trimethylamine lyases — the enzymes involved in TMAO generation — and atherosclerosis has been noted.\n\nIn 2011, coronary atherosclerosis was one of the top ten most expensive conditions seen during inpatient hospitalizations in the US, with aggregate inpatient hospital costs of $10.4 billion.\n"}
{"id": "13688694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13688694", "title": "Bali Mandara Eye Hospital", "text": "Bali Mandara Eye Hospital\n\nThe Bali Mandara Eye Hospital (, until 2013 Australia Bali Memorial Eye Centre or ABMEC) is an ophthalmology clinic and day surgery centre in Indonesia, built in memory of the 2002 Bali bombings.\n\nThe construction of the Centre was part of the Australian Government's Bali Recovery Package after the 2002 Bali bombings, and was achieved after a submission to the Australian Government from The John Fawcett Foundation. The $7 million project was commissioned by AusAID, with a design team which included experts from Australia and Indonesia. It opened officially on 27 July 2007 and began treating patients on 1 October 2007. The Centre is owned and managed by the Bali Provincial Department of Health and operated in partnership with the John Fawcett Foundation and its Indonesian arm, the Yayasan Kemanusiaan Indonesia. The Australian Government handed over the ABMEC to the Indonesian Government on 13 October 2015, while renaming it \"Bali Mandara Eye Hospital\".\nStaff from the Lions Eye Institute in Perth, Western Australia, were instrumental in setting up the Centre. The Institute's director of nursing, Elizabeth Zambotti, commissioned the facility after playing a key role in its development, while Institute director Professor Ian Constable oversaw training of Indonesian ophthalmologists by LEI staff.\n\nIn the first two days 160 Indonesian patients were seen and a dozen cataract operations were performed by Indonesian ophthalmologists.\n\nThe Centre has a training facility with digital imaging teaching capacity to enhance the surgical skills of young Indonesian and Australian graduate ophthalmologists, providing for academic exchange between Indonesian and Australian ophthalmologists and trainees. Theatres provide digital imaging from microscopic views of eye surgeries for capture, replay and analysis. The wet lab also has video imaging facilities for teaching.\n\nIt is planned to develop specialized clinics in the Centre for glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy which are on the increase in the Balinese community. The Centre also has optometry facilities with basic manufacturing and assembling capacity to cater for the almost 70 per cent of poor patients who benefit from remedial glasses.\n\nIn the event of a natural disaster on Bali, the 2,500 sq m two-story building also has the potential to become a first-level trauma centre, as it has two theatres/three-table surgical capacity and high quality sterilization, x-ray and ultrasound facilities.\n\nTwo mobile eye surgical units are attached to the Centre and cover remote areas on Bali. Each mobile clinic team with one ophthalmic surgeon, four nurses and two drivers can check over 18,000 people with eye problems per year and perform around 1,200 cataract operations.\n\n"}
{"id": "8982920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8982920", "title": "Bedtime", "text": "Bedtime\n\nBedtime (also called putting to bed or tucking in) is a ritual part of parenting to help children feel more secure and become accustomed to a more rigid schedule of sleep than they might prefer. The ritual of bedtime is aimed at facilitating the transition from wakefulness to sleep. It may involve bedtime stories, children's songs, nursery rhymes, bed-making and getting children to change into nightwear. In some religious households, prayers are said shortly before going to bed.\n\nIn adult use, the term means simply \"time for bed\", similar to curfew, as in \"It's past my bedtime\". Some people are accustomed to drinking a nightcap or herbal tea at bedtime.\n\nIn boarding schools and on trips or holidays that involve young people, the equivalent of bedtime is \"lights out\" or \"lights-out\"; a term also used in prisons, hospitals, in the military, and in sleep research.\n\n"}
{"id": "55989243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55989243", "title": "Cannabis in Bolivia", "text": "Cannabis in Bolivia\n\nCannabis in Bolivia is illegal, but cultivated illicitly, mostly for domestic consumption. Bolivia's Anti-Drug Law 1008 of 1988 mandates rehabilitation and treatment for drug users.\n"}
{"id": "31552232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31552232", "title": "Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation", "text": "Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation\n\nThe Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (CMMI; also known as the CMS Innovation Center) is an organization of the United States government under the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). It was created by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the 2010 U.S. health care reform legislation. \"The center is to test innovative payment and delivery system models that show important promise for maintaining or improving the quality of care in Medicare, Medicaid, and the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), while slowing the rate of growth in program costs\". The center \"is to give priority to twenty models specified in the law, including medical homes, all-payer payment reform, and arrangements that transition from fee-for-service reimbursement to global fees and salary-based payment\". It is \"intended to overcome antireform inertia by creating a mechanism for the diffusion of successful pilot programs\" without requiring Congressional approval.\n\nIf a CMMI pilot model is considered successful, the Secretary of Health and Human Services may expand its duration and scope. To be considered a successful test, a model must meet three criteria: \nSince its founding, CMMI has produced two models that have been certified for expansion based on meeting the above criteria: the Pioneer Accountable Care Organization (ACO) Model and the Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program.\n\n"}
{"id": "25802055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25802055", "title": "Central Council of Homeopathy", "text": "Central Council of Homeopathy\n\nCentral Council of Homeopathy (CCH) is a statutory apex body under the Ministry of AYUSH, Govt. of India. It was set up by the Government of India in 1973, and part of the Professional Councils of University Grants Commission (UGC), formed to monitor higher education in India.\n\nCCH controls homeopathy education in India; any institution desiring to grant a qualification in homeopathy is required to apply to the Council, which prescribes course curriculum and maintains central registers of homeopaths.\n\nThe institution set up under the \"Central Council of Homeopathy Act 1973, (Act 59)\". Any university or similar institution in India offering either a degree or a diploma in homeopathy can do so only if it is approved by CCH, apart from being listed under the schedules of the above-mentioned act.\nThe CCH also defines particular course curriculum and notifies benchmarks that need to be maintained by homeopathy teaching institutions, apart from maintaining a central registry of all homeopathy physicians in India.\n\nIn 2007, the Union Health Ministry set up the 'National Council for Clinical Establishments' for \"determine minimum standards\" for clinical establishments.A CCH representative is also a formal member of this National Council.\n\nIn October 2016, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested the CCH's chief, Dr Ramjee Singh and another man in relation to the alleged collection of money to provide a favorable report that would allow regulatory approval.\n\nThe council regulates the Bachelor of Homeopathic Medicine and Surgery (B.H.M.S.). It is a graduate degree in Homeopathy awarded after the study of five and a half years, including one-year internship. BHMS covers medical knowledge of the homeopathic system. \n\nA number of authors considers Homeopathy to be a pseudoscience and its remedies to have been found to be no more effective than placebo.\n\n"}
{"id": "21215595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21215595", "title": "Daman (health insurance company)", "text": "Daman (health insurance company)\n\nDaman (Arabic: ضمان) (الشركة الوطنية للضمان الصحي) - is a non-life insurance conventional health insurance government-affiliated company in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. It started operations in May 2006, with over 1000 employees. Mohammed Sultan bin Ghanoum Al Hameli - is the chairman and Dr. Michael Bitzer is the CEO of Daman.\n\nDaman offers a range of health insurance plans with added benefits, extended policy limits and wider geographical coverage.\n\nDaman is a public joint-stock company that is 80% owned by the Abu Dhabi Government with the remaining 20% owned by the Germany-based Munich Re.\n\nWith the highest market share in Abu Dhabi, Daman covers more than 2,600,000 members - as of February 2015.\n\nAs health insurance is mandatory for all residents in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, HAAD - Health Authority of Abu Dhabi offers a basic coverage plan also known as Abu Dhabi Basic Plan which is managed by Daman. Along with managing this plan, and also Enhanced and Thiqa plance are there for UAE nationals only. Daman has a wide range of health insurance plans.\n\nDaman has contracted over 2,000 providers in the UAE with direct billing services in United Arab Emirates.\n\nThiqa is a health scheme for UAE Nationals and those of similar status in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi as per the resolution no. (83) of 2007. By February 2012 more than 630,000 UAE Nationals had enrolled in the Thiqa program since its inception in June 2008.\n\nDaman launched its online portal in an initiative called e-Daman which aims to provide all health insurance related services online including paper-less claims submission, online endorsements, online quote request, online policy renewals and an online tool where users can search, receive driving directions for and rate different providers.\n"}
{"id": "14335899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14335899", "title": "Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine", "text": "Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine\n\nDoctor of Osteopathic Medicine (DO or D.O.) is a professional doctoral degree for physicians and surgeons offered by medical schools in the United States. A DO graduate may become licensed as an osteopathic physician, having equivalent rights, privileges, and responsibilities as a physician who has earned the Doctor of Medicine (MD) degree. DO physicians are licensed to practice the full scope of medicine and surgery in 65 countries, and in all 50 US states. They constitute 7% of all US physicians. As of 2017, there were more than 137,000 osteopathic medical physicians and osteopathic medical students in the United States.\n\nDO degrees are offered in the United States at 34 medical schools, at 51 campuses in 32 states, compared to MD degrees offered at 140 schools. Since 2007, total DO student enrollment has been increasing yearly. In 2015, more than 20% of all medical school enrollment in the US comprised DO students. The curricula at osteopathic medical schools are similar to those at MD-granting medical schools, which focus the first two years on the biomedical and clinical sciences, then two years on core clinical training in the clinical specialties.\n\nUpon completing medical school, a DO graduate may enter an internship or residency training program, which may be followed by fellowship training. Some DO graduates attend the same graduate medical education programs as their MD counterparts, and then take MD specialty board exams, while other DO graduates enter osteopathic programs, and take DO specialty board examinations.\n\nOne notable difference between DO and MD training is that DO training adds 300–500 hours studying techniques for hands-on manipulation of the human musculoskeletal system, a system shared (in general but not all particulars) with chiropractic medicine.\n\nThe practice of osteopathy began in the United States in 1874. The term \"osteopathy\" was coined by physician and surgeon Andrew Taylor Still, who named his new discipline of medicine \"osteopathy\", reasoning that \"the bone, \"osteon\", was the starting point from which [he] was to ascertain the cause of pathological conditions\". Still founded the American School of Osteopathy (now A.T. Still University of the Health Sciences) in Kirksville, Missouri, for the teaching of osteopathy on May 10, 1892. While the state of Missouri granted the right to award the MD degree, he remained dissatisfied with the limitations of conventional medicine and instead chose to retain the distinction of the DO degree. In 1898 the American Institute of Osteopathy started the \"Journal of Osteopathy\" and by that time four states recognized the profession.\n\nThe osteopathic medical profession has evolved into two branches: non-physician manual medicine osteopaths, who were educated and trained outside the United States; and US-trained osteopathic physicians, who conduct a full scope of medical practice. The regulation of non-physician manual medicine osteopaths varies greatly between jurisdictions. In the United States, osteopathic physicians holding the DO degree have attained the same rights, privileges, and responsibilities as physicians with a Doctor of Medicine (MD) degree. Osteopathic physicians and non-physician osteopaths are so distinct that in practice they function as separate professions.\n\nAs originally conceived by Andrew Still, the letters \"DO\" stood for \"Diplomate in Osteopathy\" and the title conferred by the degree was \"Doctor of Osteopathy\". Subsequently, the degree also came to be entitled \"Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine\". Since the late 20th century, the AOA has preferred that this title be used exclusively. Its members resolved at a 1960 conference:\n\nA minority of DOs continue to use the old terms, and the American Academy of Osteopathy retains the old usage in its name.\n\nIn 2015, there were 96,954 osteopathic medical doctors in the United States and 123,075 total DOs and osteopathic medical students. The proportion of females in the profession has steadily increased since the 1980s. In 1985, about 10 percent of DO physicians were female, compared with 40 percent in 2015. Between 2008 and 2012, 49 percent of new DO graduates were females.\n\nDuring the 2011-12 academic year, the osteopathic medical student body consisted of: 69 percent white/non-Hispanic, 19 percent Asian or Pacific Islander, 3.5 percent Hispanic, 3 percent African-American, and 0.5 percent Native American or Alaskan. The remainder were listed as \"other or not entered\". The five-year change in osteopathic medical student enrollment by ethnicity has increased by 19 percent for white/non-Hispanic students, 36 percent for Asian-American students, 24 percent for Black/African American students and 60 percent for Hispanic/Latino students.\n\nOsteopathic medical school curricula are virtually identical to those at schools granting the MD degree (Doctor of Medicine). Once admitted to an osteopathic medical school, students study for four years in order to graduate. The schooling is divided into the pre-clinical and clinical years. The pre-clinical years, the first and second years, focus on the biomedical and clinical sciences. The clinical years, the third and fourth years, consist of core clinical training and sub-internships in the clinical specialties. \n\nOsteopathic medical school accreditation standards require training in internal medicine, obstetrics/gynecology, pediatrics, family medicine, surgery, psychiatry, emergency medicine, radiology, preventive medicine, and public health. According to Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine, \"the training, practice, credentialing, licensure, and reimbursement of osteopathic physicians is virtually indistinguishable from those of physicians with MD qualifications, with 4 years of osteopathic medical school followed by specialty and subspecialty training and board certification\".\n\nDO schools provide an additional 300–500 hours in the study of hands-on manual medicine and the body's musculoskeletal system, which is referred to as osteopathic manipulative medicine (OMM). Historically, osteopaths subscribed to the view that such body manipulation can bring about systemic healing – a belief which is a form of pseudomedicine. In the early 21st century, American osteopathic physicians have largely shifted their thinking from such pre-scientific ideas. \n\nOsteopathic physicians who use OMM predominantly use it to treat musculoskeletal conditions, for which there is conflicting evidence about effectiveness. Particular criticism has been targeted at craniosacral therapy, a component of OMM taught at many DO schools, which has limited scientific support.\n\nBefore entering osteopathic medical school, an application must complete a four-year undergraduate degree and take a national standardized exam called the Medical College Admissions Test (MCAT). Some combined undergraduate/medical programs exist. Some authors note the differences in the average MCAT scores and grade point average of students who matriculate at DO schools compared to those who matriculate at MD schools within the United States. In 2015, the average MCAT and GPA for students entering US-based MD programs were 31.4 and 3.70, respectively, and 27.33 and 3.55 for DO matriculants, although the gap has been getting smaller every year. DO medical schools are more likely to accept non-traditional students, who are older and entering medicine as a second career, or coming from non-science majors.\n\nDO medical students are required to take the Comprehensive Osteopathic Medical Licensure Examination (COMLEX-USA), which is sponsored by the National Board of Osteopathic Medical Examiners (NBOME). The COMLEX-USA is series of four osteopathic medical licensing examinations. The first three exams of the COMLEX-USA are taken during medical school and are prerequisites for osteopathic residency programs, which are available in almost every specialty of medicine and surgery. Level 2 consists of a multiple-choice portion and a patient evaluation exam (2PE). COMLEX-Level 2PE, is available only in Chicago, IL and Philadelphia, PA. It is graded as a Pass/Fail exam. Finally, COMLEX Level 3 is taken during the first year of residency.\n\nIn addition to the COMLEX-USA, DO medical students may choose to sit for the MD licensure examinations, which are called the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE). This is typically done if the student desires to enter an MD residency. However, this is not always required, as some MD residency programs do not require the USMLE from DO applicants. USMLE pass rates for DO and MD students in 2012 are as follows: Step 1: 91% and 94%, Step 2 CK: 96% and 97%, and Step 2 CS: 87% and 97%, respectively (this number may be misleading as only 46 DO students compared to 17,118 MD students were evaluated for Step 2 CS) Step 3: 100% and 95% (this number may be misleading, as only 16 DO students compared to 19,056 MD students, were evaluated for Step 3).\n\nTo obtain a license to practice medicine in the United States, osteopathic medical students must pass the Comprehensive Osteopathic Medical Licensing Examination (COMLEX), the licensure exam administered by the National Board of Osteopathic Medical Examiners throughout their medical training. Students are given the option of also taking the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) to apply for some Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) residency programs. Those that have received or are in the process of earning an MD or DO degree are both eligible to sit for the USMLE. Because of their additional training, only DO candidates are eligible to sit for the COMLEX.\n\nUpon completion of internship and residency requirements for their chosen medical specialty, and depending on whether the program attended as ACGME or AOA accredited, holders of the DO may elect to be board certified by either a specialty board (through the American Medical Association's American Board of Medical Specialties) or an osteopathic specialty board (through the American Osteopathic Association Bureau of Osteopathic Specialists certifying boards). In February 2014, the American Osteopathic Association and the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education agreed to unify allopathic and osteopathic Graduate medical education starting in 2020.\n\nDepending on the state, medical licensure may be issued from a combined board (DO and MD) or a separate board of medical examiners. All of the 70 state medical boards are members of the Federation of State Medical Boards.\n\nCurrently, there are no osteopathic programs located outside of the United States that would qualify an individual to practice as an osteopathic physician in the United States. Foreign osteopathic degrees are not recognized by any state in the US as being equivalent to American DO degrees.\n\nThe following is an international licensure summary for US-trained doctors of osteopathic medicine, as listed by the American Osteopathic Association:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54678806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54678806", "title": "Drug abuse in Tanzania", "text": "Drug abuse in Tanzania\n\nDrug abuse is a major issue in Tanzania. In 2011, the drug control commission (which is dealing with drug abuse issues) reported that the number of people who are addicted ranges from 150,000 and 500,000. Most of the people who are involved in drug abuse in Tanzania are youths, who are often involved in trafficking and consuming illegal drugs like cannabis. The common illegal drugs in Tanzania are khat, marijuana, heroin, cocaine, and cannabis.\n\nIllegal drugs are available in Tanzania due to the transmission of drugs across the country borders to the nearby countries like Zambia, Malawi, Burundi, and Rwanda. \nThere was a time were some of the regions were cultivating drugs like cannabis, some of those regions are Arusha, Tanga, and Mara. The government decided to destroy all the plantation and caught the people who were engaging in such activities of cultivating illegal drugs. The government established a Drug Control Commission to deal with prevention of drug abuse and trafficking. It also provides opportunities for Non-Governmental Organizations to help in preventing drug abuse in the community.\n\nThe major cause of drug abuse in Tanzania is easy accessibility and availability of drug abuse among regions of the country.\n\nIn Tanzania, there are numbers of sober house centers in different regions, which provide treatment and consultation to drug addicts. They receive a number of people who are addicted and live with them for a certain period of time, depends on how one is affected. On the other hand, the government (through the ministry of health, community, development, gender, elderly, and children) provides support to the hospitals and sober houses. For instance, Mwananyamala Hospital in Dar es Salaam also provides treatment for drug addicts and sometime uses methadone as a treatment for addiction.\n"}
{"id": "16636560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16636560", "title": "European Pathway Association", "text": "European Pathway Association\n\nThe European Pathway Association (E-P-A.org) is a European non-profit organisation which brings together researchers, managers and clinicians on the management concept of clinical pathways. The organisation works on the establishment of clinical care pathways in order to systematically plan and follow up a patient focused care program.\n\nIn 2003, at the conference of the \"International Society for Quality in Healthcare\" (ISQUA) in Dallas (United States), the idea of a European Pathway Association was suggested by Kris Vanhaecht of the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (Belgium) and Massimiliano Panella of the University of Eastern Piedmont (Italy). On 16 and 17 September 2004, the EPA was founded at a meeting in Jesi (Italy).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48435875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48435875", "title": "Forgiveness scale", "text": "Forgiveness scale\n\nA forgiveness scale is a psychological test that attempts to measure a person's willingness to forgive. Examples include the Forgiveness scale of the Interpersonal Relationship Resolution Scale; the Marital Offence-Specific Forgiveness Scale; the Workplace Forgiveness Scale; and the Tendency to Forgive scale.\n\nStudies have found that compared to participants without past suicide attempts, those with past suicide attempts scored on the Forgiveness Scale as being significantly less believing of forgiveness by others, were less likely to forgive themselves, and to a lesser degree, were less forgiving of others.\n"}
{"id": "24722564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24722564", "title": "Gilgel Gibe III Dam", "text": "Gilgel Gibe III Dam\n\nThe Gilgel Gibe III Dam is a 250 m high roller-compacted concrete dam with an associated hydroelectric power plant on the Omo River in Ethiopia. It is located about west of Sodo in the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples' Region. Once fully commissioned, it will be the third largest hydroelectric plant in Africa with a power output of about 1870 Megawatt (MW), thus more than doubling total installed capacity in Ethiopia from its 2007 level of 814 MW. The Gibe III dam is part of the Gibe cascade, a series of dams including the existing Gibe I dam (184 MW) and Gibe II power station (420 MW) as well as the planned Gibe IV (1472 MW) and Gibe V (560 MW) dams. The existing dams are owned and operated by the state-owned Ethiopian Electric Power, which is also the client for the Gibe III Dam.\n\nThe US$1.8 billion project began in 2006 and began to generate electricity in October 2015. The remaining generators would be operational by 2016. The project has seen serious delays; in May 2012, full commissioning had been scheduled for June 2013. The dam was inaugurated by Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn on 17 December 2016.\nLocal and international environmental groups expect major negative environmental and social impacts of the dam and have criticized the project's environmental and social impact assessment as insufficient. Because of this and accusations that the entire approval process for the project was suspect, funding for the full construction cost has not yet been secured, as the African Development Bank has delayed a decision about a loan pending a review of the dam's environmental impact by its compliance review and mediation unit which in August 2009 accepted a call from NGOs for such a review. In August 2010 Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi vowed to complete the dam \"at any cost\", saying about critics of the dam that \"They don’t want to see developed Africa; they want us to remain undeveloped and backward to serve their tourists as a museum.\"\n\nThe Gilgel Gibe III Dam is and high roller-compacted concrete dam. It withholds a reservoir with a capacity of and a surface area of , collecting with a catchment area of . The reservoir's live (active or \"useful\") storage is and dead storage . The normal operating level of the reservoir is above sea level with a maximum of and minimum of . The dam's spillway is long and floodgate-controlled with a maximum discharge capacity of . Water above above sea level can be discharged through its gates. Feeding the dam's power house are two penstocks that each branch into five separate tunnels for each individual turbine. The power house contains ten 187 MW generators supported by Francis turbines for a total installed capacity of 1,870 MW.\n\nThe initial design of the dam foresaw a rock-fill dam. However, due to difficulties with obtaining proper and sufficient insurance coverage for the rock-fill dam, the design has been changed to roller-compacted concrete.\nThe main benefit of the dam will be electricity generation that is both renewable and dispatchable. It is expected to supply about half of its power to Ethiopia and export the other half to Kenya (500 MW), Sudan (200 MW) and Djibouti (200 MW). However, no Power Purchase Agreements have been signed yet between Ethiopia and any of these countries. Only Kenya signed a Memorandum of Understanding to purchase electricity from the dam. Financing for a transmission line to Kenya was approved by the World Bank in July 2012.\n\nAccess to the electricity grid in Ethiopia currently is very low. Less than 2% of Ethiopia's rural population, which accounts for 85% of the total population, have access to the grid. With the support of the World Bank the government is carrying out an ambitious project to expand rural electricity access. In 2003, low generation capacity combined with a severe drought caused power cuts lasting 15 hours twice a week for a period of six months, costing an estimated $200 million in economic output. In 2008 and 2009, Ethiopia again experienced power cuts and brownouts. According to the International Rivers Network the power cuts were caused by drought, since almost all electricity generation in Ethiopia is hydroelectric.\nAccording to the same source, despite an increase in access to the electric grid, electricity consumption is likely to remain low for the foreseeable future due to the prevailing level of poverty. Even without the Gibe III hydro plant, according to one source Ethiopia had a surplus installed capacity of 400 megawatts. Under Ethiopia’s current development plans it is said that the country will be more than 95% dependent on hydroelectric power. Ethiopia also predicted that the electricity power exports can bring about $407 million a year for the country and this amount is well above the country’s most valuable coffee export.\n\nA secondary benefit of the project will be flood protection. In 2006, a flood claimed the lives of at least 360 people and thousands of livestock in the lower Omo River basin. Allegedly, a further benefit would be a reduction in the impact of droughts, presumably through the planned large, foreign-owned irrigated sugar plantations.\n\nThe project is controversial because of its environmental and social impact, the magnitude of which in itself is a subject of controversy; because of the award of the construction contract without competitive bidding; and because of an alleged lack of transparency in project affairs. For example, the environmental and social impact assessment was not published until two years after construction began. The assessment suggested that the project would cause minimal problems environmentally and socially. However critics consider it to be flawed both in terms of thoroughness and objectivity. Among these critics is the African Resources Working Group who released statements saying that \"The quantitative [and qualitative] data included in virtually all major sections of the report were clearly selected for their consistence with the predetermined objective of validating the completion of the Gibe III hydro-dam\" and that despite claims made by the government to the contrary, the dam would \"produce a broad range of negative effects, some of which would be catastrophic.\" Another prominent critic of the dam is the Kenyan paleoanthropologist Richard Leakey who said that \"the project is fatally flawed in terms of its logic, in terms of its thoroughness, in terms of its conclusions\".\n\nIn June 2011 UNESCO's World Heritage Committee, in its 35th session held in Paris, France, called for the construction of the dam to be halted, to submit all assessments of the dam and requested Ethiopia and Kenya to invite a World Heritage Centre/IUCN monitoring mission to review the dam's impact on Lake Turkana, a World Heritage Site.\n\nAccording to the Ethiopian authorities, once the dam has been built the total amount of water flowing into the lake will not change. The only difference would be a more stable flow over the year - more during the dry season, and less during the wet. Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi said in a BBC interview: \"The overall environmental impact of the project is highly beneficial. It increases the amount of water in the river system, it completely regulates flooding which was a major problem, it improves the livelihood of people downstream because they will have irrigation projects, and it does not in any way negatively affect the Turkana Lake. This is what our studies show.\"\n\nAccording to critics, the dam will be potentially devastating to the indigenous population. The dam will stop the seasonal flood, which will impact the lower reach of the Omo River and Lake Turkana as well as the people who rely on these ecosystems for their livelihoods. According to Terri Hathaway, director of International Rivers' Africa programme, Gibe III is \"the most destructive dam under construction in Africa.\" The project would condemn \"half a million of the region's most vulnerable people to hunger and conflict.\"\n\nIt is estimated that more than 200,000 people rely on the Omo River below the dam for some form of subsistence such as flood recession agriculture, and many of these ethnic groups live in chronic hunger. Critics state that the Gibe III dam may worsen their situation. Indigenous people rely on recessional cultivation of food along the riverbanks, as well as livestock herding, for survival. The Gibe III dam and the associated decrease in water levels and seasonality of flows in the Omo River threaten the continuation of the only two options for survival in this arid environment—there are no alternatives. The people living in the project area are part of the Southern Nations of Ethiopia, a highly diverse group of people. Ethnic groups affected by the dam include eight distinct indigenous communities: the Mursi, Bodi (Mekan), Muguji (Kwegu), Kara (Karo), Hamer, Bashada, Nyangatom and Daasanach.\n\nStephen Corry, Director of the indigenous rights organization Survival International said, \"The Gibe III dam will be a disaster of cataclysmic proportions for the tribes of the Omo valley. Their land and livelihoods will be destroyed, yet few have any idea what lies ahead. The government has violated Ethiopia’s constitution and international law in the procurement process. No respectable outside body should be funding this atrocious project.\" Other sources note that, when interviewed, people in many villages have never even heard of the Gibe III dam, and many of them did not even know what a dam was. This is an indication of the failure of consultations and informed consent for the indigenous populations. Survival, together with the Campaign for the Reform of the World Bank, Counter Balance coalition, Friends of Lake Turkana and International Rivers have launched a petition to stop the dam.\n\nDam proponents argue that artificial floods are planned to be released from the reservoir. Furthermore, irrigation projects are envisaged to improve the livelihoods of the downstream population. As it became known to a wider public in November 2011 through a report by the Oakland Institute, there are indeed massive plans for cotton and sugarcane plantations on 445,000 ha in the lower Omo Valley. The sugarcane plantations could be financed with aid from India, which is heavily engaged in developing Ethiopian sugar production. The investors in the plantations are mostly Ethiopian state-owned companies.\n\nThere are also reports about human rights violations by the Ethiopian army against locals who oppose the sugar plantations in the lower Omo Valley that would be irrigated with water from the dam's reservoir. According to the reports, \"villagers are expected to voice immediate support, otherwise beatings (including the use of tasers), abuse, and general intimidation occurs\", (...) \"instilling a sense of fear regarding any opposition to sugar plantation plans.\"\n\nThe decreased water flow of the Omo River resulting from the Gibe III dam will have significant impacts on the ecosystems surrounding the river. The Omo River Basin is home to the only pristine riparian forest remaining in the drylands of sub-Saharan Africa. The survival of this forest is dependent upon the seasonal flooding of the Omo River, which will cease with construction of the dam. This may cause 290 km2 of forest to \"dry out\" from lack of water. The decreased water flow will also negatively impact, if not eliminate, all economic activities associated with the Omo River such as farming, fishing, and tourism. The water level of the Omo River is crucial for recharging groundwater supplies in the Omo basin. If the water level of the river drops once the Gibe III dam is built, then it will no longer be able to refill underground water supplies, leaving much of the basin bereft of groundwater, which negatively impacts people and ecosystems. As the water level of the Omo River drops, the erosion of its riverbanks will increase, causing increased sediment flows in the river, loss of soil for crop cultivation along the riverbanks, and loss of riparian habitats.\nA December 2012 study stated Ethiopia's Gibe III dam would cause humanitarian catastrophe and major cross-border armed conflict.\n\nConstruction of one of the world’s tallest dams on the Omo River in southern Ethiopia will lead to mass starvation among a half million indigenous people in an already famine-prone region, sparking major armed conflict in the three-nation border region over its disappearing natural resources, according to a new report from the African Resources Working Group (ARWG).\n\n\"Humanitarian Catastrophe and Regional Armed Conflict Brewing in the Transborder Region of Ethiopia, Kenya, and South Sudan: The Proposed Gibe III Dam in Ethiopia\" analyzes the full scale of impacts of the dam and charges that no environmental or social review of the full cross-border impact area has been carried out by the Ethiopian government or international development banks involved in the project, including the World Bank. It is authored by a member of the ARWG and long-term researcher in the region, Claudia J. Carr, an Associate Professor at the University of California, Berkeley. The 250-page report is based on substantial field-based research involving the participation of local residents throughout much of the cross-border region.\n\nThe Gibe III dam is already under construction by Ethiopia along its Omo River, with general recognition that it will cause a major decrease in river flow downstream and a serious reduction of inflow to Kenya's Lake Turkana, which receives 90 per cent of its waters from the river. According to the ARWG report, these changes will destroy the survival means of at least 200,000 pastoralists, flood-dependent agriculturalists and fishers along the Omo River 300,000 pastoralists and fishers around the shores of Lake Turkana - plunging the region’s ethnic groups into cross-border violent conflict reaching well into South Sudan, as starvation confronts all of them.\n\nThe report offers a devastating look a deeply flawed development process fueled by the special interests of global finance and African governments. In the process, it identifies major overlooked or otherwise minimized risks, not the least of which is a U.S. Geological Survey estimation of a high risk for a magnitude 7 or 8 earthquake in the Gibe III dam region.\n\nThe magnitude of the impact that the dam and possible irrigation projects induced by the dam will have on the water level of Lake Turkana is controversial. A hydrological study conducted for the African Development Bank in November 2010 concluded that the filling of the dam will reduce the lake's water level by two metres, if no irrigation will be undertaken. Irrigation would cause a further drop in the lake level.\n\nFriends of Lake Turkana, a Kenyan organization representing indigenous groups in northwestern Kenya whose livelihoods are linked to Lake Turkana, had previously estimated that the dam could reduce the level of Lake Turkana by up to 10 meter affecting up to 300,000 people. This could cause the brackish water to increase in salinity to where it may no longer be drinkable by the indigenous groups around the lake. Currently, the salinity of the water is about 2332 mg/L, and it is estimated that a 10-meter decrease in the water level of Lake Turkana could cause the salinity to rise to 3397 mg/L. Raising salinity could also drastically reduce the number of fish in the lake, which the people around Lake Turkana depend on for sustenance and their livelihoods. According to critics, this \"will condemn the lake to a not-so-slow death.\"\n\nAccording to dam proponents, the impact on Lake Turkana will be limited to the temporary reduction in flows during the filling of the reservoir. Various sources state that the filling could take between one and three wet seasons. The total storage volume of the reservoir of Gibe III dam will be between 11.75 and 14 billion cubic meter, depending on sources. According to the firm that builds the dam this would reduce the water level in the lake by \"less than 50 cm per year for three years\" and that salinity \"will not change in any way\".\n\nAccording to the International Lake Environment Committee, 90% of Lake Turkana's water is delivered by the Omo River on which the Dam would be built. With no outlet, Lake Turkana loses 2.3 meters of water every year to evaporation, and its level is sensitive to climatic and seasonal fluctuations. For purposes of comparison, the historic level of Lake Turkana declined from a high of 20m above today's level in the 1890s to the same level as today in the 1940s and 1950s. Then it increased again gradually by 7 meters to reach a peak around 1980, and subsequently decreased again.\n\nThe Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) summary of the project did not assess the impact of the dam on the water level and water quality of Lake Turkana. The director of Kenya's Water Services Regulatory Board, John Nyaoro, argued that the dam would have no negative impact on Lake Turkana.\n\nIt was predicted that there is about 50-75% leakage of waters from the reservoir due to multiple fractures in the basalts at the planned reservoir site. Due to the loss of the waters in reservoir, the dam would not be able to produce as much electricity and less hydro power would be available to export to other nearby countries. Also, the dam and reservoir are vulnerable to seismic activity such as earthquakes and massive landslides in the Gibe III project region. The earthquakes can cause even larger fractures to the dam and are susceptible to more water leakage as well as decreasing the economic inputs. Moreover, the landslides would fill up the reservoir and less water capacity can be stored. This would also mean that less hydro power can be produced.\n\nControversy arose also as the environmental and social impact assessment and preceding environmental impact study (EIS) were not done until two years after beginning construction on the dam. The Ethiopian Environmental Protection Authority requires that an environmental impact assessment be done for any project \"likely to entail significant adverse environmental impacts\" and that \"the EIS must submitted before commencing any construction or any other implementation of the project.\" \n\nAn Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) has been carried out by Centro Elettrotecnico Sperimentale Italiano (CESI) and Agriconsulting of Italy, in association with MDI Consulting Engineers from Ethiopia. According to Anthony Mitchell, an engineer who submitted an independent feasibility study of the dam to the African Development Bank, CESI's owners include vendors who can benefit from the project and this conflict of interest is not disclosed in the impact statement. As part of the assessment, according to the Project Company, public consultations were carried out with \"officials and institutions, people affected by the project and non-governmental organizations\". According to critics, these consultations have been minimal. Most importantly, the assessment was only completed in July 2008, nearly two years after construction began, in violation of Ethiopian law and in contrast to global good practice of environmental assessments. Also, an independent environmental advisory panel has been established only as late as July 2009, apparently in a belated effort to appease criticism of the project.\n\nThe Africa Resources Working Group (ARWG), a collaborative of eight consultants from around the world, conducted an independent environmental impact statement of their own for the Gibe III dam. The alternative impact statement was performed because of the alleged corruption and inaccuracy of the official impact assessment. The ARWG criticizes many of the statements made in the official Gibe III ESIA. Regarding the flow of water into Lake Turkana, they state that the Gibe III dam will result in a 57-60% decrease of river flow volume. The ARWG also notes that it is not necessarily the volume of water that is important to the Omo River and Turkana ecosystems, but that the seasonality and timing of the water flow is crucial, because certain biota are adapted to feeding, reproducing, growing, etc. in response to seasonal changes in water flow. Artificially releasing water from the Gibe III dam into the Omo River will not be sufficient to meet the needs of these biota. Additionally, the ARWG states that there is \"no precedent of successful and sustained implementation\" of an artificial flood simulation program in sub-Saharan Africa, so it is not guaranteed that such a program will be maintained at the Gibe III dam.\n\nThe contract for the construction of the dam was awarded in 2006 to Salini Costruttori of Italy . The engineering design was awarded to Studio Pietrangeli and supervision of ELC-COB (ELC Electroconsult, Italy - Coyne et Bellier, France) as representative of the Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation. The contract to Salini Construttori was awarded after direct negotiation rather than allowing bidding on the contract from other qualified companies. Public international financial institutions require competitive bidding of construction contracts, making it difficult for the Ethiopian government to get a loan from them. The bypassing of the standard process was defended by general manager of the Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation, Mihert Debeba, as skipping a set of \"luxurious preconditions\" that Ethiopia could not meet, one which would completely halt any development of hydroelectric power.\n\nThe financial costs of the dam and hydroelectric power plant have been estimated to be 1.55 billion Euro. The cost of a transmission line from the power plant to the nearby Wolayta Sodo Substation has been estimated at 35 Million Euro. These costs do not include the costs of constructing or upgrading power transmission lines to Addis Abeba and onwards to Djibouti to the Northeast of the dam, to Sudan in the West and to Kenya in the South, all located at a distance between 500 and 1000 km from the dam. The cost estimate does not include the costs of extending the electricity distribution network to effectively increase access to electricity. As of 2009, electricity access in the prospective beneficiary countries was still low at 16% in Kenya and 36% in Sudan.\n\nAccording to the official website of Gibe III, most of the construction cost of the dam itself is financed by the Ethiopian government with its own funds. However, part of the project is financed through a corporate bond called \"Millennium Bond\" issued by the Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation (EEPCO) and marketed with the Ethiopian diaspora. The Ethiopian government also had requested financing of US$250 million from the Italian government for civil works. In 2008, JPMorgan Chase and the Italian export credit agency SACE refused to provide financing.\n\nIn May 2010 EEPCo and Dongfang Electric Machinery Corporation, a Chinese state-owned company, signed a memorandum of understanding to provide electrical and mechanical equipment for the project. The agreement is backed by a loan from the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China reportedly covering 85% of the US$495 million cost. International environmental groups have criticized the loan as \"hypocritical\" and a violation of ICBC’s commitment to China’s Green Credit Policy. Previously the European Investment Bank (EIB) had been considering financing of the dam's electrical and mechanical equipment with a loan of US$341 million. It has financed economic, financial and technical studies for the dam. In July 2010 the EIB stopped financing environmental and social studies for the dam, stating that \"alternative financing\" had been found. The African Development Bank had also been considering a US$250 million loan for the electro-mechanical equipment of the plant. The World Bank also had considered funding the project. In 2008 the World Bank decided not to pursue a full feasibility study for the dam, because of the absence of competitive bidding for the prime contractor.\n\nThe Exim Bank of China finances the transmission line to the Addis Ababa. The contract has been awarded to the Chinese Company Tebian Electric Apparatus Stock Co., Ltd. (TBEA) on July 24, 2009.\n\nIn July 2012 the World Bank approved a US$684 million loan for an Eastern Electricity Highway Project that will finance a 500 Kilovolt High Voltage Direct Current transmission line between the Wolayta/Sodo substation in Ethiopia and the Suswa substation in Kenya. Environmental groups have criticized the loan as funding for the Gilgel Gibe III Dam through the backdoor.\n\nA $1.9 billion deal between China’s Sino Hydro Corporation and the Ethiopian Electric Power Authority to construct the Gibe IV and Halele Werabesa hydroelectric dams was reported by \"The Shanghai Daily\" on 15 July 2009. Both dams are \"expected to be completed in five years\", and would have a combined capacity of over 2,000 megawatts.\n\n"}
{"id": "19023490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19023490", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Eswatini", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Eswatini\n\nHIV/AIDS in Swaziland was first reported in 1986 but has since reached epidemic proportions due in large part to cultural beliefs which discourage safe-sex practices. Coupled with a high rate of co-infection with tuberculosis, life expectancy has halved in the first decade of the millennium. Swaziland has the highest prevalence of HIV as percentage of population (adults 15-49 years) in the world as of 2016 (27.2%).\n\nHIV/AIDS remains one of the major challenges to Swaziland's socioeconomic development. The epidemic has spread relentlessly in all the parts of the country since the first reported case in 1986.\n\nPeriodic surveillance of prenatal clinics in the country has shown a consistent rise in HIV prevalence among pregnant women attending the clinics. The most recent surveillance in antenatal women reported an overall prevalence of 42.6% in 2004. Prevalence of 28% was found among young women aged 15–19. In women ages 25–29, prevalence was 56%.\n\nThe Human Development Index from the UN Development Programme reports that as a consequence of HIV/AIDS, life expectancy in Swaziland has fallen from 61 years in 2000, to 32 years in 2009.\n\nFrom another perspective, the last available World Health Organization data (2002) shows that 64% of all deaths in the country were caused by HIV/AIDS. In 2009, an estimated 7,000 people died from AIDS-related causes. On a total population of approximately 1,185,000 this implies that HIV/AIDS kills an estimated 0.6% of the Swazi population every year. Chronic illnesses that are the most prolific causes of death in the developed world only account for a minute fraction of deaths in Swaziland; for example, heart disease, strokes, and cancer cause a total of less than 5% of deaths in Swaziland, compared to 55% of all deaths yearly in the US.\n\nThe United Nations Development Program has written that if the spread of the epidemic in the country continues unabated, the \"longer term existence of Swaziland as a country will be seriously threatened\".\n\nThe first reported case of HIV in Swaziland was in 1987. The spread of HIV throughout Swaziland in the 1990s coincided with the increase of migrant workers from Swaziland to the mines of South Africa.\n\nTraditional Swazi culture discourages safe sexual practices, like condom use and monogamous relationships. There is a cultural belief in procreation to increase the population size, and Swazis believe a woman should have a minimum of five children and that a man's role is to impregnate as many partners as he can. Men may never get married but still have many children from multiple partners. The few men who do get married often practice polygamy. Sexual aggression is common, with 18% of sexually active high school students saying they were coerced into their first sexual encounter.\n\nMany thousands of children have been orphaned by AIDS, and only 22% grow up in two-parent families.\n\nIn 2003, the National Emergency Response Committee on HIV/AIDS (NERCHA) was established to coordinate and facilitate the national multisectoral response to HIV/AIDS, while the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (MOHSW) was to implement activities. The previous national HIV/AIDS strategic plan covered the period 2000–2005; a new national HIV/AIDS strategic plan and a national HIV/AIDS action plan for the 2006–2008 period are currently being developed by a broad group of national stakeholders. To date, the six key areas of the plan are prevention, care and support, impact mitigation, communications, monitoring and evaluation, and management/coordination.\n\nDespite the widespread nature of the epidemic in Swaziland, HIV/AIDS is still heavily stigmatized. Few people living with HIV/AIDS, particularly prominent people such as religious and traditional leaders and media/sports personalities, have come out publicly and revealed their status. Stigma hinders the flow of information to communities, hampers prevention efforts, and reduces utilization of services.\n\nOn June 4, 2009, the USA and Swaziland signed the \"Swaziland Partnership Framework on HIV and AIDS for 2009-2014\". The President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief will contribute to the implementation of Swaziland's multi-sectoral \"National Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS\". The plan was reconducted with a new eNSF (National Strategic Framework) for 2014-2018.\n\nVarious community responses have been implemented as a result of this plan, consisting in the implementation of a decentralised coordination. For example, the formation of 3 regional and community structures, including Nhlangano AIDS Training Information and Counseling Center in the Shiselweni Region.\n\nTuberculosis is also a significant problem, with an 18 percent mortality rate. Many patients have a multi-drug resistant strain, and 83 percent are co-infected with HIV. There are roughly 14,000 new TB cases diagnosed each year.\n\n"}
{"id": "13799538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13799538", "title": "Hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy", "text": "Hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy\n\nHereditary neuralgic amyotrophy (HNA) is a neuralgic disorder that is characterized by nerve damage and muscle atrophy, preceded by severe pain. In about half of the cases it is associated with a mutation of the \"SEPT9\" gene (17q25). While not much is known about this disorder, it has been characterized to be similar to Parsonage-Turner syndrome in prognosis.\n\nSymptoms of HNA may include pain in the back, neck, arms, or shoulders, nerve pulls in the arms or back, muscular atrophy, and weakness.\n\nHNA is an episodic disorder; it is characterized by episodes generally lasting 1–6 weeks. During an episode, the nerves of the brachial plexus are targeted by the body as antigens, and the body's immune system begins to degenerate the nerves of the brachial plexus. The exact order or location of the nerve degeneration cannot be predicted before an episode. Other areas of the nervous system that have been affected are the phrenic nerves and the recurrent laryngeal. As the nerves lose function, the muscles associated with those nerves begin to atrophy. In brachial plexus degeneration, atrophy may occur in the deltoid muscles. In phrenic nerve degeneration, the diaphragm may be affected. In this case, breathing can be impaired due to a lack of muscle control of the diaphragm. If the recurrent larangyl nerve is targeted, the pharynx will begin to atrophy and voice function may be lost.\nThe severe pain of HNA can be controlled with an anti-inflammatory drug such as prednisone, although it is unknown whether these anti-inflammatory drugs actually slow or stop the nerve degeneration process.\n\nNerve regeneration after an episode is normal, and in less severe cases a full recovery of the nerves and muscles can be expected. However, in a severe case permanent nerve damage may occur.\n\n"}
{"id": "42205467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42205467", "title": "Hurley Group", "text": "Hurley Group\n\nThe Hurley Group is a large provider of primary care services in London, one of only 3 organisations in England which served more than 100,000 patients in 2014. In 2012 it ran 13 practices, had 250 employees and provided a variety of NHS services across London.\n\nDr Clare Gerada is one of four GP partners in the firm. It was noted during her active campaign against the Health and Social Care Act 2012 that the group could face substantial competition from private providers if they were allowed to compete equally to provide NHS services. Other GPs were reported as complaining that the Hurley Group was \"swooping in and taking over in areas where it normally has no business\".\n\nExpansion of larger organisations like the Hurley Group has been advocated as a means whereby the quality and capacity of primary care services in England could be enhanced, for example by the King's Fund report in 2011. Dr Arvind Madan, Partner and Chief Executive made a presentation to the Nuffield Trust event \"Transforming general practice: unlocking the potential\" in May 2013.\n\nIn June 2014 the group was awarded a five year £17m contract to provide urgent care centres outside Queen Mary’s Hospital and Erith Hospital by Bexley Clinical Commissioning Group.\n\nAll Saints Practice, in Poplar, east London, one of the 18 practices in the group, was put in special measures by the Care Quality Commission in April 2017. \n\nIn June 2018 the practice announced that it planned to use its eConsult online system for most consultations. This enables patients to submit their symptoms to a GP electronically, and offers around the clock NHS self-help information, signposting to services, and a symptom checker. 12 GPs are using eConsult and it is planned to recruit 12 more, so patients will only be seen in person where necessary. 340 other practices are also using eConsult, a majority of the 479 GP practices are expected to have implemented an online consultation system by April 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "50305894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50305894", "title": "Indian states and union territories ranked by prevalence of open defecation", "text": "Indian states and union territories ranked by prevalence of open defecation\n\nThis is a list of Indian states and territories ranked by their households with open defecation free in both urban and rural areas. Figures are from ministry of drinking water and sanitation. Below table shows ODF( Open Defecation Free), households with Toilets as percentage of total population.\n"}
{"id": "26361181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26361181", "title": "International Association for Ambulatory Surgery", "text": "International Association for Ambulatory Surgery\n\nThe International Association for Ambulatory Surgery\nwas formed in 1995 when clinicians from several countries who were interested in ambulatory surgery (otherwise known as day surgery) came together to form the organisation which is run as a charity registered in Belgium. It aims to promote ambulatory surgery around the world and is run by an active General Assembly formed by representatives from each of the member countries. They organise a biennial International Congress in Ambulatory Surgery and have an electronic journal \"Ambulatory Surgery\" which is freely available online.\n\n"}
{"id": "21595970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21595970", "title": "John Ordronaux (doctor)", "text": "John Ordronaux (doctor)\n\nJohn Ordronaux (1830 - January 20, 1908) was an American Civil War army surgeon, a professor of medical jurisprudence, a pioneering mental health commissioner and a generous patron of university endowments. Between 1859 and 1901 Ordronaux published at least fifteen books and articles about subjects as diverse as heroes of the American Revolution of 1776, military medicine, medical jurisprudence, mental health, United States constitutional law and historical treatises. He left an estate worth $2,757,000 much of which he gave in endowments to several US universities and other institutions. He did not marry.\n\nOrdronaux was the only son of Captain John Ordronaux (a notable privateer of the War of 1812), and his wife Jean Marie Elizabeth Ordronaux (née Charretton). This is supported by the younger Ordronaux's will which mentions a bequest to his sister Florine, and to his nieces Clara and May Molan, matching genealogical information prepared by an Ordronaux family member.\n\nHe graduated from Dartmouth College in 1850, from Harvard Law School in 1852, and from the National Medical School in 1859. In 1859 he published his first book a \"Eulogy on the life and character of Rev. Zachariah Greene\", who, before taking Holy Orders, had fought under Washington in the revolution of 1776 at the age of seventeen. In 1860 Ordronaux became a Professor of medical jurisprudence at Columbia Law School, a post that he held until 1887. Since 1861 he had also been a lecturer at Dartmouth College, The University of Vermont and Boston University.\n\nDuring the American Civil War Ordronaux served as an army surgeon stationed in New York. He also acted as a military medical advisor and between 1861 and 1863 he published two textbooks on the health of armies, and an instruction manual of medical criteria for examining recruits. In the introduction to the latter, which was written for the United States Sanitary Commission, he said, \"The preservation of health in armies, is everywhere a subject of recognized importance. So much, in fact, depends upon it, that precautionary measures in this behalf can never be exaggerated. All that can be done, should be done to protect troops against preventable disease. It seems to have been formerly believed, that the presence of a surgeon in each regiment was all sufficient for this purpose ; and that officers and men could go their way free from any responsibility or apprehension on that score. But experience has proved that the preservation of health, in either one man, or many, is not purely objective with surgeons. Too much, in this particular, is expected from them, and too little is done by officers to cooperate with them. Armies, like patients, must act in concert with their medical advisers, and make the matter of health subjective as well as objective. Officers and men need an insight into the general principles of hygiene, in order to be able to assist, themselves, in furthering prophylactic measures. To supply them with the requisite amount of information, the accompanying popular manual has therefore been prepared.\"\n\nIn 1863 he wrote a historical treatise in French (with Reinaud) on the commercial and political relations between the Roman Empire and the countries of Oriental Asia. In 1864 he wrote a second report for the United States Sanitary Commission. This concerned pensions for the war wounded and was subtitled, \"On a system for the economical relief of disabled soldiers, and on certain proposed amendments to our present pension laws\".\n\nAfter the war he returned to Columbia Law School and began writing again. Between 1867 and 1871 he produced a book on preventative medicine and two textbooks on medical jurisprudence. He also translated into English verse the medieval Latin text of Regimen sanitatis Salernitanum, the medical encyclopedia of the Scuola Medica Salernitana. in Salerno, Italy was the pre-eminent medical school in Europe in the 11th century. This was not the first English translation but an attempt to make a medically accurate one. He appears to have done this as a tribute to former members of his profession and in an introduction to his work he said, \"\"Regimen Sanitatis Salerni\" was a work of transcendent merit. Though written in the early twilight of the Middle Ages and in inferior Latin, it at once took its place alongside of such classic productions as the Aphorisms of Hippocrates. No secular work, indeed, ever met with more popular favor, nor infused its canons so radically into the dogmas of any science. It was for ages the medical Bible of all Western Europe, and held undisputed sway over the teachings of its schools, next to the writings of Hippocrates and Galen\".\n\nOrdronaux developed an interest in mental health and between 1872 and 1882 he was a member of the New York State Commission in Lunacy writing two books on the subject. The second of these books mentions the opening of a ground breaking mental hospital and in his preface to the book he says, \"The recent establishment of a department of Lunacy supervision by the State of New York, has turned public attention to it as a source for consultation, in the application of our Statute and Common Law to the legal relations of the insane...Insanity is a subject which touches our civil rights at so many different points, that it may be said to have a place in every problem involving human responsibility. It begins with man in the cradle, and follows him to the grave. It is often part of his physical heritage, and may become a qualifying element in all his civil acts. To collect and embody in one treatise the principles of law by which courts govern their adjudications in questions of mental incapacity, and to expound through commentaries both the philosophy of these decisions and the rules of procedure under which they are rendered, is the object aimed at in this manual of Lunacy practice\".\n\nOrdronaux's activity as a Commissioner was frequently mentioned in the press. In 1875, he was called in to adjudicate whether a man, who was under sentence of death for murder, was insane. The same newspaper reported again on 7 January 1876 how Ordronaux had found that Kings County Lunatic Asylum was being mismanaged by the charity commissioners (17). He also investigated complaints from two inmates in Buffalo asylum of abusive behaviour by their carers. In his report Ordronaux upheld the complaints and recommended the discharge of the two staff involved. By 1882 his forward thinking and outspokenness had made him some enemies and in 1882 his salary of $4000 as Commissioner in Lunacy was temporarily opposed in debate in the finance committee of the New York State Senate.\n\nOrdronaux's work on State law in New York led him to consider its relationship with Federal law, and in 1891 he published what may be his most important book, on the relationship between the powers of Congress and State legislatures. About this book of more than 600 pages, Ordonaux said in the preface, \"The accompanying work is an attempt to present in a concrete form the entire system of Federal and State legislation, as practised under a written Constitution in the United States. Its object is to expound those administrative powers which, in our dual form of representative government, are sovereign within their several spheres of action...A written Constitution is a political grammar to whose rules administrative laws must conform, in order to give them judicial validity...The government of forty four independent States, dwelling in harmonious relations under a supervisory Federal sovereignty, would seem, therefore, to justify the treatment of Legislation as a\ndepartment of jurisprudence meriting more textual consideration than it has yet received...the present treatise has been prepared to meet the wants of those who, desiring to practise or interpret the canons of representative government in the United States, may seek to master the secrets of its architecture through a study of the labors of its founders, and to trace its genesis and development to a providential origin in the Spartan Commonwealths of our colonial period.\"\n\nIn 1898 Ordronaux wrote a biography of a Leonice Sampson Moulton, a presumed relative of his foster father, possibly his foster mother. She was born in 1811 and descended from the original Mayflower settlers to America. As Miss Sampson, she was sent on a secret mission to the US embassy in Buenos Aires to enquire into the sovereignty dispute between Great Britain and Argentina over the Falkland Islands. She is interesting according to Ordronaux for, among other things, keeping a very detailed diary which was far more comprehensive than the logs of the ships upon which she travelled.\n\nOn 27 June 1901 Ordronaux addressed the graduate students of The University of Vermont. Reading like a tribute to his own life's work he says, \"A strange feeling possesses me as I rise to address you...I am here to perform, with much surprise to myself, the same duty which devolved upon me, on a similar occasion, thirty six years ago...I stand in the presence of two distinct periods with all their differing and startling results. In this long interval, too long to be measured by the standard of months, and falling more properly in the category of cycles, the drama of human society has moved with accelerated pace. A generation has acted its part of good and evil, then passed to its final account. Science, the industrial art, Education, Commerce, Navigation, have all spread their wings as never before. Our country has added nine states to the framework of our Federal Union, and buttressed its Constitution with armor plated Amendments whose necessity had never been contemplated. Our very name, the United States, has changed its former significance and been adjudicated by our highest Appellate Tribunal to be no longer a plural substantive, but a noun in the singular number describing a nation of political equals, and not a league or partnership of States.\"\n\nOrdronaux died of \"apoplexy\" at his home, Glen Head, in Roslyn, New York on 20 January 1908. His estate was initially valued at nearly $1,000,000. A large part of his bequests were to hospitals, universities, churches and other public institutions. These included $30,000 to Dartmouth College and $10,000 each to Trinity College, Hartford, Connecticut, The University of Vermont and the Episcopal Diocese of Long Island. However, the New York Times reported on 8 August 1908 that Ordronaux's total estate amounted to $2,757,000, the bulk of which was left to his three surviving sisters.\n\n"}
{"id": "10792549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10792549", "title": "Kamalasagar", "text": "Kamalasagar\n\nKamalasagar is an artificial lake in Tripura, India, constructed by King Dhanya Manikya of Tripura in the 15th century and is a popular spot for picnickers. A \"mela\" is held there every October during the Navaratri festival.\n\nKamalasagar assembly constituency is part of Tripura West (Lok Sabha constituency).\n\n"}
{"id": "24809583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24809583", "title": "Leprosy in Japan", "text": "Leprosy in Japan\n\nAs of 2009, 2,600 former leprosy patients were living in 13 national sanatoriums and two private hospitals in Japan. Their mean age is 80. There were no newly diagnosed Japanese leprosy patients in 2005, but one in 2006, and one in 2007.\n\n\n\n\nHannah Riddell established the Kaishun Hospital in 1895 in Kumamoto and her activities are mentioned elsewhere.\nBecause of the Russo-Japanese war, she was in desperate financial straits because English people stopped sending money to her because of the risks that could occur during the sending process. An important meeting was held at the Banker's Club in Tokyo, both to save her and to discuss leprosy problems facing Japan. Various leaders, including those representing the government, statesmen, and journalists, attended the meeting.\nThe timing was good. The Japanese government had begun to take an interest in leprosy problems since they found many patients in the drafts for military service. To become strong militarily was their biggest concern at the time. The meeting was chaired by Viscount Shibuzawa, who was a leading businessman. At the meeting Kensuke Mitsuda stressed that leprosy was infectious.\nFinally the Japanese government, spurred by the events of the 1905 meeting, promulgated the first leprosy prevention law in 1907 and started five public sanatoriums in 1909.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAll these laws were repealed in 1996.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEmpress Teimei\nKensuke Mitsuda\nHannah Riddell\nMary Cornwall-Legh\nKeisai Aoki\nMatsuki Miyazaki\nIsamu Masuda\nMasako Ogawa\nMasasue Suho\nRyumyo Tsunawaki\nNoboru Ogasawara\nMasanao Goto\nMosuke Murata\nMieko Kamiya\nKazuo Saikawa\nHeibei Okamura\nSuketoshi Chujo\nIsamu Tajiri\nShigetaka Takashima\nFumio Hayashi\nKageyoshi Tada\nKohsaburo Iesaka\nMamoru Uchida\nShunsuke Miyake\nKoh Yasuda\nTaiji Nojima\nHakaru Miyagawa\n\nWesterners who were involved in the care of leprosy patients\nbased partly on Modernization of Medicine and Foreigners(Souda) and others\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18006217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18006217", "title": "Leumit Health Care Services", "text": "Leumit Health Care Services\n\nLeumit Health Care Services (, \"Leumit Sherutey Bri'ut\", lit. \"National Health Care Services\", formerly \"Kupat Holim Leumit\", lit. \"Leumit Sickness Fund\") is an Israeli HMO, founded in 1933 by the Revisionist Zionist Movement.\n\nLeumit Health Fund () was established in 1933 in Dr. Yaakov Vinshal's kitchen in Tel Aviv - Israel by physicians who had been dismissed from their work in the General Health Fund (Clalit) at the time of the violent events following Arlosoroff's murder. Dr. Vinshal's clinic was the first clinic to belong to the Fund, which has advanced a long way since then. \n\nIn 1940 the poet Uri Tzvi Greenberg determined that the Fund's function is \"to educate and to cure the bodies\". Abba Ahimeir added: \"The Jews must be taught to be healthy even when they are ill\". Since then and to this day, Leumit Health Fund has been promoting health services and health education and providing the community with advanced medical services. \n\nBack in the 1930s, its founders determined that the uniqueness of the Leumit Health Fund would be expressed by offering its members the right to select the fund, physician and medical services of their choice - a uniqueness that has remained to this very day. \n\nThe Fund's first manager, Mr. Melamedowitz, determined that the Fund would be open to everyone, and demanded that the employees and managers relate to the members of the Fund as acquaintances and not as numbers. The Fund indeed continues to pursue this path - a Fund whose doors are open to all residents of Israel, including new immigrants, city, kibbutz and settlement dwellers, the religious and ultra-religious, minority groups and secular Israelis.\n\nLeumit is one of the four health funds in Israel and has about 700,000 members. Leumit operates more than 300 medical centers and 100 pharmacies nationwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "48944880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48944880", "title": "Little Pine (restaurant)", "text": "Little Pine (restaurant)\n\nLittle Pine is a vegan bistro located in the Silver Lake neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. It was founded by electronic musician and animal rights activist Moby. The restaurant serves organic, vegan, Mediterranean-inspired dishes and has a retail section with art and books, curated by Moby himself. Moby's vision was to create a space that includes various aspects of society that he cares about. All of the restaurant's profits are donated to animal welfare organizations.\n\nLittle Pine opened on November 19, 2015 and is located in the Silver Lake neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. Original plans for the restaurant to open in the summer of 2015 were delayed. Moby opened the restaurant to create a space that encompasses various matters that he cares about, such as veganism, organic food, community, architecture and design. Moby has stated that Little Pine was created to provide a \"... compelling representation of veganism\" and to provide a space as \"... an extension of our neighborhood and community.\" \n\nThe restaurant's decor has chandeliers and artistic murals created by various local artists, and photographic works of nature created by Moby. The general decorum was designed by interior designer Tatum Kendrick. Little Pine is located in an Art Deco-style building that was built in the 1940s. The restaurant has 58 seats. Moby does not allow his own music to be played in the restaurant, and has been a vegan for 28 years.\n\nLittle Pine purveys all plant-based, vegan dishes influenced by Mediterranean cuisine and influences of the cuisine, such as Italian, Spanish and French cuisines, as well as minor aspects of North African cuisine. Brunch dishes include French toast, lemon pancakes and biscuits and gravy. Entrée dishes include stuffed shells, panko crusted piccata, and a parmesan spinach crêpe, among others. Organic wine, various beers, tea and coffee are also served, as well as almond milk. Food ingredients are sourced locally whenever possible.\n\nLittle Pine donates all of its profits to animal organizations. Donations are given to The Humane Society, PETA, the Animal Legal Defense Fund, Farm Sanctuary and Sea Shepherd, among others. The donations commenced when the restaurant began to break even relative to its operating expenditures.\n"}
{"id": "22375457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22375457", "title": "Market information systems", "text": "Market information systems\n\nMarket information systems (otherwise known as market intelligence systems, market information services, or MIS, and not to be confused with management information systems) are information systems used in gathering, analyzing and disseminating information about prices and other information relevant to farmers, animal rearers, traders, processors and others involved in handling agricultural products. Market information systems play an important role in agro-industrialisation and food supply chains. With the advance of Information and communication technologies for development (ICTs) in developing countries, the income- generation opportunities offered by market information systems have been sought by international development organizations, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and businesses alike.\n\nThere is a wide variety of market information systems or services. OECD countries have traditionally emphasised the importance of information provision for the agricultural sector, a notable example being the service provided by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). Such systems are widely used in order to increase the transparency and the volume of information flowing through the supply chains for different agricultural products. The ability of market information systems to provide a valuable service was strengthened with the development of the Internet and the advance of electronic commerce (business-to-business (B2B), consumer-to-consumer, etc.). Industry structure, product complexity and the demanding nature of agricultural transactions are considered determining factors for the development of B2B electronic commerce in agriculture.\n\nIn developing countries, market information initiatives are often part of broader interventions and part of the agricultural marketing and agribusiness development strategy that many governments are actively engaged in. It is commonly understood that long transaction chains, lack of transparency, lack of standards, and insufficient access to markets for products has perpetuated low incomes in predominantly agrarian economies. Early attempts at market information provision in developing countries involved government bodies in collecting price information, and arranging for this to be disseminated via newspapers and radio stations. The information provided was often not very accurate and usually reached farmers too late to be of practical use. Governments often attempted to cover far too many locations and many services either collapsed after initial donor assistance came to an end or managed to struggle along with little impact. Furthermore, it was soon recognised that it was not enough just to supply market information to farmers. They needed assistance in understanding how to use that information. However, donor organizations, such as FAO, CTA, IICD, USAID, DFID, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, remain committed to improving the efficiencies within the supply chain through greater information provision. The recent surge of mobile phone usage in developing countries has provided an opportunity for innovative projects to leverage this new distribution channel to get critical market data into the hands of farmers and traders, taking advantage of the SMS capacity of phones. Using the so-called \"push\" method recipients of information are identified on a database and automatically receive messages of relevance to them. Alternatively, the \"pull\" method enables farmers and traders to interrogate the database of the MIS. A farmer can send an SMS with the product and location he is interested in (e.g. tomatoes;Nairobi) and receive an immediate reply. Several projects by Reuters, Nokia, Esoko, KACE, Manobi, AgRisk and others have demonstrated the impact that such information can have. Amongst donors there is a renewed interest in promoting regional trade, particularly in Africa, and market information is seen as an important way of achieving this. Examples of donor-supported services are RATIN for East Africa and RESIMAO for West Africa.\n\nNevertheless, it remains unclear whether MIS can be delivered on a profitable basis by the private sector, given the difficulty of fully covering costs, or on a sustainable basis by the public sector, given the latter's history of gathering inaccurate data and disseminating it badly. To try to address some of these problems, a new approach makes the buyers responsible for uploading the price information via SMS, and facilitates trade by creating a capacity for sellers to contact individual buyers. Others question whether formal systems are still necessary when farmers can just contact traders by phone. Work in Bangladesh, India, China and Vietnam found that 80% of farmers now own cell phones and they use these to speak to multiple traders about prices and demand and to conclude deals. A study in the Philippines found that farmers using cell phones reported improved relationships with their trading partners, possibly because the ability to compare prices made them trust their buyers more. Studies in Niger and India demonstrate the impact of cell phones in reducing price variations and creating greater equilibrium among markets. Introduction of internet kiosks and cafes that provide wholesale price information to farmers has been shown to enhance the functioning of rural markets by increasing the competitiveness of local traders in India.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35185354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35185354", "title": "Maternal health in Rwanda", "text": "Maternal health in Rwanda\n\nThe main aspects of maternal health are prenatal care, post-natal care, family planning and preconception.\n\nThe RBF scheme in Rwanda has led to massive improvement in the prenatal care in various provinces of the country.\n\nInstitutional delivery helps to reduce infant mortality rate. According to UNICEF, institutional delivery coverage is 69% in 2006-2010 in Rwanda.\n"}
{"id": "36893927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36893927", "title": "Medical Missionaries of Mary", "text": "Medical Missionaries of Mary\n\nThe Medical Missionaries of Mary are a religious institute of the Catholic Church dedicated to providing health care to the underdeveloped regions of the world. They follow a Benedictine spirituality, with its focus on life in community, shared prayer and hospitality.\n\nFounded in Ireland in 1937 by Mother Mary Martin, they were originally dedicated to serve the missions in Africa. Today they serve in both North and South America as well\n\nMartin grew up in an affluent home raised by her mother after the premature death of her father. Upon the outbreak of the First World War, Martin joined the Voluntary Aid Detachment, a division of the Red Cross, and helped with the nursing of wounded soldiers. After completing her period of service, she returned home to Ireland. There, she was inspired by the Reverend Thomas Roynane, a new curate assigned to her parish, to serve as a missionary in China as part of the proposed new religious congregation of the Missionary Sisters of St. Columban. In the meanwhile, she was called upon to help in nursing victims of the Spanish flu, which had begun to devastate populations around the world. To prepare for her missionary service, she went to England in January 1919 for further medical training. She was scheduled to undertake training in midwifery the following year. Her mother's severe illness prevented her from taking that training, however, as she had to return home to care for her.\n\nBy chance, Joseph Shanahan, C.S.Sp., a member of the missionary Holy Ghost Fathers, had just been named Vicar Apostolic for the new Vicariate Apostolic of Southern Nigeria, then still a British colony. He received permission to recruit among the secular clergy to serve there on contracts of five-years duration. Roynane received permission from his own bishop to volunteer for this work.\nIn April 1920, Roynane arranged for Martin to meet the new bishop, and she volunteered her services as a lay missionary to work in his jurisdiction. She advised him that she was about to commence training as a midwife. Agnes Ryan, another initial candidate for the Columban Sisters and by now in her fourth year of medical training, advised Martin that she wished to join her in the African mission. She completed that training in February 1921.\n\nIn April of that same year, Martin left Ireland for Nigeria, with Ryan, who had left her studies. They set sail for Africa from Liverpool on 25 May on the S.S. Elmina, a ship of the African Steamship Company. They arrived in the port of Calabar on 14 June. They arrived prepared to provide medical care, only to learn that they were expected to run a school which had been staffed by French Religious Sisters until two years prior. To give the parents and children of the school a sense of continuity, the two women were addressed as \"Sisters\" by the priests and treated as if they were already members of an established religious congregation.\nBy October, Ryan had contracted malaria and developed a heart condition, which required her return to Ireland. Forced to fill in as Acting Headmistress, Martin determined to confer directly with the bishop in his headquarters at Onitsha, a journey of 100 miles (160 kilometers), for which she brought along three of the oldest girls at the school. Meeting with the bishop, Martin was advised that caution was needed in providing medical care to the people of her mission, so as not to provoke objections by other missionaries in the region. Further, before leaving Ireland, the bishop had organized a support group of Catholic mothers to provide assistance to the missions, of which Martin's own mother had become the president. They agreed that a religious congregation was needed to meet the needs of the mission. Upon her return to Calabar, Martin made a 30-day-long retreat following the Spiritual Exercises of Ignatius of Loyola, in an effort to clarify where she was being led.\n\nIn April 1922 the bishop traveled there and held two weeks of consultations with Martin, Roynane and another missioner, during which the Rule and Constitutions of a new congregation were hammered out, with the understanding that Martin would be the foundress. Martin was not to see the bishop again for two years. During this time she learned that the bishop was working to establish the new congregation in Ireland, a direction she felt would focus the congregation on teaching rather than the medical care to which she felt called. An Irish Sister of Charity, Sister Magdalen Walker, was released from her congregation to help in this new work. She arrived in Calabar in October 1923. The following January Martin was directed by the bishop to return to Ireland to make a novitiate period which would be recognized under new Church law. In March she joined Agnes Ryan, another volunteer at the mission, Elizabeth Ryan, and an American candidate, Veronica Hasson, as they started their time of postulancy, prior to admission to the novitiate year. After 18 months, however, upon completion of the novitiate year she left the community, as the training provided by the Dominican Sisters providing their formation had not been oriented toward medical care.\n\nIn this formal step of forming the new congregation, Martin had encountered the prohibition in the new Code of Canon Law of 1917 of the Catholic Church against members of religious orders practicing medicine. Facing this barrier, Martin still felt a call to consecrated life and considered following the example of the recently canonized Carmelite nun, Thérèse of Lisieux (coincidentally also bearing the family name of Martin). In 1927 she applied to the monastery of that Order in Dublin, but her application was declined, solely on the decision of the prioress who overrode a unanimous vote by community, feeling that Martin was called to a different path in life. She then went through a new period of confusion until she was requested to consider again serving the missions. She then formed a small group of women to provide the domestic service for the preparatory school run by the Benedictine monks of Glenstal Abbey.\nFollowing a long period of illness in 1932, the following year Martin approached the new Apostolic Nuncio to Ireland, Archbishop Paschal Robinson, O.F.M. The nuncio was supportive of her goals and encouraged her continually over the next years. Finally, in February 1936, the Holy See lifted prohibition against Religious Sisters serving as doctors or midwives. Martin then sought a diocese which would accept a new congregation, without success. In October of that same year, Robinson's former secretary, Antonio Riberi, was named Apostolic Delegate in Africa, based in Kenya. He gave his support to having the congregation established in Calabar, which at that time was under a new Vicar Apostolic, James Moynagh, S.P.S., whose own sister was a member of the new community.\n\nWhile still negotiating to purchase a house in Ireland to serve as a local base there—which complicated by the fact that they were not yet a formal congregation—the small community sailed for Nigeria at the end of 1936. Upon their arrival Martin suffered a heart attack and was hospitalized at Port Harcourt. It was there that she was allowed to profess religious vows on 4 April 1937. With that the Medical Missionaries of Mary became formally established as a congregation.\n\nToday the Medical Missionaries of Mary number some 400 women from 20 countries, who serve in 14 different countries around the world. These are: Ireland, England, Angola, Benin, Kenya, Malawi, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, Brazil, Honduras and the United States. The Sisters and are trained in a variety of health-related professions. Their special concern is the care of the medical needs of mothers and children and the fostering of family life.\n\nAs well as sisters with lifelong religious vows, there are about 100 associate members, both men and women, who feel drawn to the spirituality of the congregation and to apply its values in their daily lives, making an annual covenant to live it out in their daily lives. MMM associates can be found in 12 different countries.\n"}
{"id": "3940866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3940866", "title": "Medical transcription", "text": "Medical transcription\n\nMedical transcription, also known as MT, is an allied health profession dealing with the process of transcribing voice-recorded medical reports that are dictated by physicians, nurses and other healthcare practitioners. Medical reports can be voice files, notes taken during a lecture, or other spoken material. These are dictated over the phone or uploaded digitally via the Internet or through smart phone apps.\n\nMedical records have been kept since humans began writing, as attested by ancient cave writings. Medical transcription as it is currently known has existed since the beginning of the 20th century, when standardization of medical data became critical to research. At that time, medical stenographers replaced physicians as the recorders of medical information, taking doctors' dictation in shorthand. With the creation of audio recording devices, it became possible for physicians and their transcriptions to work asynchronously, thus beginning the profession of healthcare documentation as we currently know it.\n\nOver the years, transcription equipment has changed from manual typewriters to electric typewriters to word processors to computers and from plastic disks and magnetic belts to cassettes and endless loops and digital recordings. Today, speech recognition (SR), also known as continuous speech recognition (CSR), is increasingly being used, with medical transcriptions and or \"editors\" providing supplemental editorial services, although there are occasional instances where SR fully replaces the MT. Natural-language processing takes \"automatic\" transcription a step further, providing an interpretive function that speech recognition alone does not provide (although Ms do).\n\nIn the past, these medical reports consisted of very abbreviated handwritten notes that were added in the patient's file for interpretation by the primary physician responsible for the treatment. Ultimately, this mess of handwritten notes and typed reports were consolidated into a single patient file and physically stored along with thousands of other patient records in a wall of filing cabinets in the medical records department. Whenever the need arose to review the records of a specific patient, the patient's file would be retrieved from the filing cabinet and delivered to the requesting physician. To enhance this manual process, many medical record documents were produced in duplicate or triplicate by means of carbon copy.\n\nIn recent years, medical records have changed considerably. Although many physicians and hospitals still maintain paper records, there is a drive for electronic records. Filing cabinets are giving way to desktop computers connected to powerful servers, where patient records are processed and archived digitally. This digital format allows for immediate remote access by any physician who is authorized to review the patient information. Reports are stored electronically and printed selectively as the need arises. Many MTs now utilize personal computers with electronic references and use the Internet not only for web resources but also as a working platform. Technology has gotten so sophisticated that MT services and MT departments work closely with programmers and information systems (IS) staff to stream in voice and accomplish seamless data transfers through network interfaces. In fact, many healthcare providers today are enjoying the benefits of handheld PCs or personal data assistants (PDAs) and are now utilizing software on them.\n\nMedical transcription is part of the healthcare industry that renders and edits doctor dictated reports, procedures, and notes in an electronic format in order to create files representing the treatment history of patients. Health practitioners dictate what they have done after performing procedures on patients and MT’s transcribe the oral dictation and/or edit reports that have gone through speech recognition software.\n\nPertinent up-to-date, confidential patient information is converted to a written text document by a medical transcriptionist (MT). This text may be printed and placed in the patient's record and/or retained only in its electronic format. Medical transcription can be performed by MTs who are employees in a hospital or who work at home as telecommuting employees for the hospital; by MTs working as telecommuting employees or independent contractors for an outsourced service that performs the work offsite under contract to a hospital, clinic, physician group or other healthcare provider; or by MTs working directly for the providers of service (doctors or their group practices) either onsite or telecommuting as employees or contractors. Hospital facilities often prefer electronic storage of medical records due to the sheer volume of hospital patients and the accompanying paperwork. The electronic storage in their database gives immediate access to subsequent departments or providers regarding the patient's care to date, notation of previous or present medications, notification of allergies, and establishes a history on the patient to facilitate healthcare delivery regardless of geographical distance or location.\n\nThe term transcript or \"report\" as it is more commonly called, is used as the name of the document (electronic or physical hard copy) which results from the medical transcription process, normally in reference to the healthcare professional's specific encounter with a patient on a specific date of service. This report is referred to by many as a \"medical record\". Each specific transcribed record or report, with its own specific date of service, is then merged and becomes part of the larger patient record commonly known as the patient's medical history. This record is often called the patient's chart in a hospital setting.\n\nMedical transcription encompasses the MT, performing document typing and formatting functions according to an established criterion or format, transcribing the spoken word of the patient's care information into a written, easily readable form. MT requires correct spelling of all terms and words, (occasionally) correcting medical terminology or dictation errors. MTs also edit the transcribed documents, print or return the completed documents in a timely fashion. All transcription reports must comply with medico-legal concerns, policies and procedures, and laws under patient confidentiality.\n\nIn transcribing directly for a doctor or a group of physicians, there are specific formats and report types used, dependent on that doctor's speciality of practice, although history and physical exams or consults are mainly utilized. In most of the off-hospital sites, independent medical practices perform consultations as a second opinion, pre-surgical exams, and as IMEs (Independent Medical Examinations) for liability insurance or disability claims. Some private practice family doctors choose not to utilize a medical transcriptionist, preferring to keep their patient's records in a handwritten format, although this is not true of all family practitioners.\n\nCurrently, a growing number of medical providers send their dictation by digital voice files, utilizing a method of transcription called speech or voice recognition. Speech recognition is still a nascent technology that loses much in translation. For dictators to utilize the software, they must first train the program to recognize their spoken words. Dictation is read into the database and the program continuously \"learns\" the spoken words and phrases.\n\nPoor speech habits and other problems such as heavy foreign accents and mumbling complicate the process for both the MT and the recognition software. An MT can \"flag\" such a report as unintelligible, but the recognition software will transcribe the unintelligible word(s) from the existing database of \"learned\" language. The result is often a \"word salad\" or missing text. Thresholds can be set to reject a bad report and return it for standard dictation, but these settings are arbitrary. Below a set percentage rate, the word salad passes for actual dictation. The MT simultaneously listens, reads and \"edits\" the correct version. Every word must be confirmed in this process. The downside of the technology is when the time spent in this process cancels out the benefits. The quality of recognition can range from excellent to poor, with whole words and sentences missing from the report. Not infrequently, negative contractions and the word \"not\" is dropped altogether. These flaws trigger concerns that the present technology could have adverse effects on patient care. Control over quality can also be reduced when providers choose a server-based program from a vendor Application Service Provider (ASP).\n\nDownward adjustments in MT pay rates for voice recognition are controversial. Understandably, a client will seek optimum savings to offset any net costs. Yet vendors that overstate the gains in productivity do harm to MTs paid by the line. Despite the new editing skills required of MTs, significant reductions in compensation for voice recognition have been reported. Reputable industry sources put the field average for increased productivity in the range of 30%-50%; yet this is still dependent on several other factors involved in the methodology. Metrics supplied by vendors that can be \"used\" in compensation decisions should be scientifically supported.\n\nOperationally, speech recognition technology (SRT) is an interdependent, collaborative effort. It is a mistake to treat it as compatible with the same organizational paradigm as standard dictation, a largely \"stand-alone\" system. The new software supplants an MT's former ability to realize immediate time-savings from programming tools such as macros and other word/format expanders. Requests for client/vendor format corrections delay those savings. If remote MTs cancel each other out with disparate style choices, they and the recognition engine may be trapped in a seesaw battle over control. Voice recognition managers should take care to ensure that the impositions on MT autonomy are not so onerous as to outweigh its benefits.\n\nMedical transcription is still the primary mechanism for a physician to clearly communicate with other healthcare providers who access the patient record, to advise them on the state of the patient's health and past/current treatment, and to assure continuity of care. More recently, following Federal and State Disability Act changes, a written report (IME) became a requirement for documentation of a medical bill or an application for Workers' Compensation (or continuation thereof) insurance benefits based on requirements of Federal and State agencies.\n\nAn individual who performs medical transcription is known as a \"medical transcriber\" (\"MT\") or a \"Medical Language Specialist\" (\"MLS\"). The equipment used is called a \"medical transcriber,\" e.g., a cassette player with foot controls operated by the MT for report playback and transcription.\n\nEducation and training can be obtained through certificate or diploma programs, distance learning, and/or on-the-job training offered in some hospitals, although there are countries currently employing transcriptionists that require 18 months to 2 years of specialized MT training. Working in medical transcription leads to a mastery in medical terminology and editing, ability to listen and type simultaneously, utilization of playback controls on the transcriber (machine), and use of foot pedal to play and adjust dictations – all while maintaining a steady rhythm of execution. Medical transcription training normally includes coursework in medical terminology, anatomy, editing, grammar and punctuation, typing, medical record types and formats, and healthcare documentation.\n\nWhile medical transcription does not mandate registration or certification, individual MTs may seek out registration/certification for personal or professional reasons. Obtaining a certificate from a medical transcription training program does not entitle an MT to use the title of Certified Medical Transcriptionist. A Certified Healthcare Documentation Specialist (CHDS) credential can be earned by passing a certification examination conducted solely by the Association for Healthcare Documentation Integrity (AHDI), formerly the American Association for Medical Transcription (AAMT), as the credentialing designation they created. AHDI also offers the credential of Registered Healthcare Documentation Specialist (RHDS). According to AHDI, RHDS is an entry-level credential while the CHDS is an advanced level. AHDI maintains a list of approved medical transcription schools. Generally, certified medical transcriptionists earn more than their non-certified counterparts. It is also notable that training through an educational program that is approved by AHDI will increase the chances of an MT getting certified and getting hired.\n\nThere is a great degree of internal debate about which training program best prepares an MT for industry work. Yet, whether one has learned medical transcription from an online course, community college, high school night course, or on-the-job training in a doctor's office or hospital, a knowledgeable MT is highly valued. In lieu of these AHDI certification credentials, MTs who can consistently and accurately transcribe multiple document work-types and return reports within a reasonable turnaround-time (TAT) are sought after. TATs set by the service provider or agreed to by the transcriptionist should be reasonable but consistent with the need to return the document to the patient's record in a timely manner.\n\nWhile most medical transcription agencies prefer candidates with a minimum of one year experience, formal instruction is not a requirement, and there is no mandatory test. Some hospitals require nothing more than a diploma for employment as a medical transcriptionist. The average pay range for an in-house MT in a hospital setting is $8/hr. However, MT/HDS can expect to receive anywhere from $12-$19 an hour, depending if they are working in a union or non-union environment. This large gap is because the job is based on production, so the more an MT can produce, the more they can make.\n\nOn March 7, 2006, the MT occupation became an eligible U.S. Department of Labor Apprenticeship, a 2-year program focusing on acute care facility (hospital) work. In May 2004, a pilot program for Vermont residents was initiated, with 737 applicants for only 20 classroom pilot-program openings. The objective was to train the applicants as MTs in a shorter time period. (See Vermont HITECH for pilot program established by the Federal Government Health and Human Services Commission).\n\nExperience that is directly related to the duties and responsibilities specified, and dependent on the employer (working directly for a physician or in hospital facility).\n\n\n\nWhen the patient visits a doctor, the latter spends time with the former discussing his medical problems, including history and/or problems. The doctor performs a physical examination and may request various laboratory or diagnostic studies; will make a diagnosis or differential diagnoses, then decides on a plan of treatment for the patient, which is discussed and explained to the patient, with instructions provided. After the patient leaves the office, the doctor uses a voice-recording device to record the information about the patient encounter. This information may be recorded into a hand-held cassette recorder or into a regular telephone, dialed into a central server located in the hospital or transcription service office, which will 'hold' the report for the transcriptionist. This report is then accessed by a medical transcriptionist, it is clearly received as a voice file or cassette recording, who then listens to the dictation and transcribes it into the required format for the medical record, and of which this medical record is considered a legal document. The next time the patient visits the doctor, the doctor will call for the medical record or the patient's entire chart, which will contain all reports from previous encounters. The doctor can on occasion refill the patient's medications after seeing only the medical record, although doctors prefer to not refill prescriptions without seeing the patient to establish if anything has changed.\n\nIt is very important to have a properly formatted, edited, and reviewed medical transcription document. If a medical transcriptionist accidentally typed a wrong medication or the wrong diagnosis, the patient could be at risk if the doctor (or his designee) did not review the document for accuracy. Both the doctor and the medical transcriptionist play an important role to make sure the transcribed dictation is correct and accurate. The doctor should speak slowly and concisely, especially when dictating medications or details of diseases and conditions. The medical transcriptionist must possess hearing acuity, medical knowledge, and good reading comprehension in addition to checking references when in doubt.\n\nHowever, some doctors do not review their transcribed reports for accuracy, and the computer attaches an electronic signature with the disclaimer that a report is \"dictated but not read\". This electronic signature is readily acceptable in a legal sense. The transcriptionist is bound to transcribe verbatim (exactly what is said) and make no changes, but has the option to flag any report inconsistencies. On some occasions, the doctors do not speak clearly, or voice files are garbled. Some doctors are, unfortunately, time-challenged and need to dictate their reports quickly (as in ER Reports). In addition, there are many regional or national accents and (mis)pronunciations of words the MT must contend with. It is imperative and a large part of the job of the Transcriptionist to look up the correct spelling of complex medical terms, medications, obvious dosage or dictation errors, and when in doubt should \"flag\" a report. A \"flag\" on a report requires the dictator (or his designee) to fill in a blank on a finished report, which has been returned to him, before it is considered complete. Transcriptionists are never, ever permitted to guess, or 'just put in anything' in a report transcription. Furthermore, medicine is constantly changing. New equipment, new medical devices, and new medications come on the market on a daily basis, and the Medical Transcriptionist needs to be creative and to tenaciously research (quickly) to find these new words. An MT needs to have access to, or keep on memory, an up-to-date library to quickly facilitate the insertion of a correctly spelled device.\n\nMedical transcription editing is the process of listening to a voice-recorded file and comparing that to the transcribed report of that audio file, correcting errors as needed. Although speech recognition technology has become better at understanding human language, editing is still needed to ensure better accuracy. Medical transcription editing is also performed on medical reports transcribed by medical transcriptionists.\n\nRecent advances in speech recognition technology have shifted the job responsibilities of medical transcriptionists from not only transcribing but also editing. Editing has always been a part of the medical transcriptionist job, however now editing is a larger requirement as reports are more often being transcribed electronically. With different accents, articulations, and pronunciations, speech recognition technology can still have problems deciphering words. This is where the medical transcriptionist editor steps in. Medical transcription editors will compare and correct the transcribed file to the voice-recorded audio file. The job is similar to medical transcription as editing will use a foot pedal and the education and training requirements are mostly the same.\n\nEducation and training requirements for medical transcription editors is very similar to that of medical transcriptionists. Many medical transcription editors start out as medical transcriptionists and transition to editing. Several of the AHDI-approved medical transcription schools have seen the need for medical transcription editing training and have incorporated editing in their training programs. Quality training will be the key to your success as a Medical Transcription / Healthcare Documentation Specialist. It is also very important to get work experience while training to ensure employers will be willing to hire freshly graduated students. Students who receive 'real world' training are much better suited for the medical transcription industry, than those who do not.\n\nDue to the increasing demand to document medical records, countries have started to outsource the services of medical transcription. The global medical transcription services market was valued at USD 41.4 Billion in 2012 and is expected to grow at a CAGR of 5.6% from 2013 to 2019, to reach an estimated value of USD 60.6 Billion in 2019. The main reason for outsourcing is stated to be the cost advantage due to cheap labor in developing countries, and their currency rates as compared to the U.S. dollar. Drivers that Influence Outsourcing to Medical Transcription Partners.\n\nThere is a volatile controversy on whether medical transcription work should be outsourced, mainly due to three reasons:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30168213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30168213", "title": "Neville Alexander Odartey-Wellington", "text": "Neville Alexander Odartey-Wellington\n\nMajor General Neville Alexander Odartey-Wellington (1934–1979), former Chief of Army Staff, Ghana Armed Forces (1978–79), was a Ghana Army officer. He was a native of Osu, Accra, and died in action leading loyal troops against revolting forces during the 4 June 1979 coup d'état in Ghana.\n\nDescribed as a “soldier’s soldier”, Major General Odartey-Wellington attended Accra Academy in Ghana and various military training institutions including the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst (RMAS), and the United States Army Infantry School (Fort Benning, Georgia). After being commissioned as an officer, he saw action in the Congo during the Congo Crisis, and also served in the Ghanaian UNIFIL contingent in the Middle East.\n\nUnder the National Redemption Council (NRC) and Supreme Military Council I (SMC I) governments led by General I.K. Acheampong, Odartey-Wellington served in various military command and civil administrative positions. He was Chief Executive of the Ghana Timber Marketing Board, Commissioner (Minister) of Health and subsequently Commissioner of Agriculture tasked with implementing Acheampong's nationalistic \"Operation Feed Yourself\" program, before reverting to the position of Commander, No. 1 Infantry Brigade Group in 1977. He is believed to have led the palace coup that removed General Acheampong as Head of State in July 1978. In the reconstituted SMC regime or SMCII led by General F.W.K. Akuffo, Odartey-Wellington was promoted from brigadier to major general, and became Army Commander or Chief of Army Staff and thus, a member of the SMC's cabinet .. In his capacity as a cabinet member, Odartey-Wellington led the Ghanaian delegation to the General Debate of the thirty-third session of the UN General Assembly in October 1978, where, apart from delivering a blistering attack on the Ian Smith regime in what was then Rhodesia, as well as South Africa's apartheid policy and its occupation of Namibia, he reaffirmed Ghana’s commitment to Palestinian self-determination, including the option to establish an independent State.\n\nThe SMCII commenced the transition to multi-party democratic rule, but was itself overthrown in a bloody coup on June 4, 1979, during which Major General Odartey-Wellington was killed while leading loyal troops. Although the coup was successful, he was buried with full military honours by the new regime at the Ghana Military Cemetery in Osu. Major General Odartey-Wellington had previously foiled another coup on 15 May 1979. As Chief of Army Staff, Odartey-Wellington's death, coupled with the capitulation of Chief of Defence Staff Lieutenant General Joshua Hamidu, compromised the ability of the SMCII to resist the June 4th revolt. His colleagues subsequently surrendered and most of them were executed without due process by the new regime. Ghana’s National Reconciliation Commission has highly commended Odartey-Wellington for his sense of duty and “daring leadership” in trying to quell the revolt so as to safeguard the transition process. In September 1995, the Ghana Army commissioned the multi-million cedi Odartey-Wellington Tennis Court at the Army Officers' Mess in Accra in honour of the late Army Commander, who had been an avid tennis player.\n\nMajor General Odartey-Wellington was survived by his wife Comfort and five children: Comfort, Esther, Dorothy, Michael, and Felix. Mrs Comfort Odartey-Wellington died in 1997 and was buried next to her husband at the Military Cemetery in Osu. Odartey-Wellington's children have since been involved in high-profile clashes in the press with Jerry Rawlings, the airman who led the 4 June 1979 coup that resulted in the killing of the former Army Commander. One such clash culminated in the detention of Felix Odartey-Wellington by Ghana's Bureau of National Investigations(BNI) in 2000 after he had described Rawlings as a \"political conman\" on national television.\n"}
{"id": "34591384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34591384", "title": "Odontoma dysphagia syndrome", "text": "Odontoma dysphagia syndrome\n\nOdontoma dysphagia syndrome (Bader syndrome) is a rare syndrome (<10 cases reported to date) first described in 1967. The cause is not known but it is suspected to be genetic in origin.\n\nThis syndrome is characterized by clustering of teeth (compound odontoma, dysplasia and aplasia of teeth), slight craniofacial abnormalities, and dysphagia. The dysphagia may be due to an over growth of muscle tissue or strictures in the oesophagus. Benign tumors (odontomas) may form at the roots of the teeth.\n\nThe cause is thought to be genetic and it may inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. A possible link to chromosome 11 (11q13.3) a region that included fibroblast growth factors 3 and 4 has been reported.\n\nSupport group \n"}
{"id": "2373254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2373254", "title": "Painkiller Jane", "text": "Painkiller Jane\n\nPainkiller Jane is a fictional character, a comic book heroine created by Jimmy Palmiotti and Joe Quesada for Event Comics in 1995. Originally a five-issue mini-series, the character went on to star in numerous crossover titles with the likes of the Punisher, Vampirella, and Hellboy.\n\nAfter Event comics, the character was exclusively written by Jimmy Palmiotti and drawn by various artists as it jumped from publisher to publisher. The series relaunched at Dynamite Entertainment with the first mini-series selling out. After that Icon- an independent label for creator owned work at Marvel comics, published two mini-series. The character then came back to PaperFilms, a company owned by Jimmy Palmiotti and Amanda Conner where it is currently published. Painkiller Jane has been published all over the world in at least 8 languages to date. The comics have been the basis for a film and television series and is currently in development with Jessica Chastain.\n\nJane Vasko begins as an undercover police officer attempting to infiltrate the Fonti Mob. After gaining the trust of mob boss Joey Fonti, she is given the assignment of passing a message on to rival gang member Adam, not realizing that an explosive device has been planted on her. As she meets her target, the explosion causes significant injuries, but Adam is uninjured. Through mysterious means, he manages to revive Jane, giving her superhuman regenerative powers in the process. Leaving her life as a police officer behind, she becomes the vigilante Painkiller Jane.\n\nThe validity of this origin is unclear, as a completely different origin has been presented in the first Painkiller Jane miniseries, and the Dynamite Comics' miniseries contain references to both versions of the characters' origin.\n\nJane Vasko is virtually indestructible. With Jane's exceptional regenerative abilities, minor injuries heal in seconds, and do not even slow her down; more major ones tend to take a few minutes. She has recovered from multiple gunshot wounds, explosions, chemical weapons assault, axes buried in her spine, even a shotgun blast to the face (which simply knocked her off her feet for a bit). However, the healing power does not stop the injuries from hurting, which is where her new name came from. On the offensive side, she has no real powers except being a tough woman to kill. Other than that, she is a skilled fighter and master of undefined martial arts, as well as a master marksman with her weapons of choice; a pair of handguns.\n\n\n\n\"Painkiller Jane\" was made into a made-for-television movie and broadcast on the Sci-Fi Channel in December 2005. The film stars Emmanuelle Vaugier as the titular heroine. The film differed significantly from the comics, notably in regard to the character's origin, but led to a subsequent television series. In an interview with Moviepilot, Palmiotti is in progressing on a new film. In November 2016, Deadline reports that Jessica Chastain has signed on to star as Jane Vasko in the big screen with Lotus Entertainment’s Lenny Beckerman producing along with Solipsist Films’ Stephen L’Heureux and Chastain through her Freckle Films banner. Bill Johnson, Jim Seibel, Ara Keshishian and Palmiotti will exec produced the film.\n\nThe Sci-Fi Channel Original Series based on the character starred Kristanna Loken as Jane Vasco. The series' pilot aired Friday, April 13, 2007. The name of the heroine in the show was more similar to the original comic name of Jane Vasko, as opposed to the Jane Browning character from the television film. The series received lukewarm reviews. On August 15, 2007, it was announced the show would not return for a second season. The final episode aired on September 21, 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "6927873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6927873", "title": "Pharmaceutical Society of New Zealand", "text": "Pharmaceutical Society of New Zealand\n\nThe Pharmaceutical Society of New Zealand Incorporated is the professional body for New Zealand pharmacists.\n\nThe headquarters of the Pharmaceutical Society is Level 10, Grand Arcade Tower, 16-20 Willis Street, Wellington, New Zealand.\n\nUntil the formation of the NZ Society in 1884, pharmacists in New Zealand were usually members of the British Pharmaceutical Society. As a result, the practice of pharmacy (or 'chemist and druggist' as it was usually known at the time) in New Zealand was similar to British practice, and this has continued to be the case.\n\nFrom 1884 until 2004, membership of the Society was a legally specified requirement for practice as a pharmacist in New Zealand, signified by the post-nominal letters, 'MPS' (Member of Pharmaceutical Society). Membership was restricted to those who had passed the examinations, originally conducted by the Society and later by government operated Schools of Pharmacy, and then completed a period of practical training.\n\nIn 2004 pharmacy registration was transferred to a separate body with government-appointed members, the Pharmacy Council of New Zealand, and the Pharmacy Society (as it is often known) continued as a voluntary membership organisation representing pharmacists and seeking to advance pharmacy practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "45256983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45256983", "title": "Polio Children", "text": "Polio Children\n\nPolio Children is an international non-governmental organization which has fundraised over £1.3million to fund projects in India, Tanzania, South Sudan and Sierra Leone which enhance the welfare of children with poliomyelitis. The charity has provided scholarships, vocational training and material assistance to polio victims across the world to ensure they can live dignified, independent lives.\n\nIn 1938, Vaghjibhai Ranchodbhai Patel, a 17-year-old son of a poor farmer in Gujarat, India completed his high school education. Yet despite passing with outstanding grades he was unable to pursue further studies because of his family’s poor economic situation.\n\nHowever, he was determined that his children would not face the same fate and subsequently supported their education at any cost. The overriding message emitted by Vaghjibhai Patel that education is the only key to gain freedom from poverty was never far from the minds of his 3 sons. It was therefore no surprise that in late 2002 when Arun Patel, a polio sufferer himself, came across a newspaper article on a boarding school looking after poor and polio ridden children in Rajasthan, India, the three of them decided to visit to evaluate what help could be provided.\n\nThis first visit to the school (SKSN - Sucheta Kriplani Shiksha Niketan) left them with an overwhelming desire to help change the lives of those children for good. Hence, they immediately proceeded to set up Polio Children as a registered charity in the UK and the USA.\nSince its formation in 2003, Polio Children, with the help of thousands of friends and well wishers from around the world has continued to work in partnership with its Indian and African counterparts to educate the poor and physically challenged children so they could all look forward to a life of hope and dignity.\n\nIn addition to founding Polio Children and the OKAS Fund, Arun Patel is a trustee of the Isha Foundation. He is a retired chartered accountant and was a member of the ICAEW. He remains active with Rotary International through the Rotary Club of Dagenham in London.\n\nDr. Shirish Patel is also a founding trustee of Polio Children and the OKAS Fund. He obtained his medical degree from the Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda, and is a member of the Royal College of Physicians. He is currently a Clinical Associate Professor at the University of Rochester specialising in psychiatry.\n\nMayoor Patel attended Marlborough College and the Chelsea College of Science and Technology before attaining his degree from Surrey University. As well as founding Polio Children and the OKAS Fund along with his brothers, Mayoor Patel is also on the National Advisory Council for Milapfest, an Indian Arts Development Trust. He has also been involved with the Little Drops Shravana Project since 2007 (for the hearing impaired), a charity which aims to improve health and education in developing countries.\n\nPolio Children currently supports projects in India, Tanzania and South Sudan, with projects pending to begin in Sierra Leone.\nPolio Children work in partnership with the Indiability Foundation to support the Sucheta Kriplani Shiksha Niketan (SKSN) Institute in Jodhpur, Rajasthan. Since its inception in 1991 the SKSN institute has flourished from educating just 15 disabled boys into a boarding school now holding over 200 disabled and able-bodied boys and girls. Polio Children’s fundraising efforts, along with generous donations from other organisations around the world, have enabled the school to build a computer lab, a library and a prosthetics laboratory where, funds permitting, bespoke artificial limbs can be manufactured.\n\nPolio Children's most significant contribution to SKSN was the construction of a girls hostel to provide accommodation for the female students of the school. The 140-bed Academic Training and Vocational Centre for Girls was opened in 2004 and enabled the school to enrol over three times as many female students who were previously unable to travel to classes each day. Polio Children also fund a scholarship program allowing over 220 graduates to attend higher education institutions where they train to become doctors, engineers and teachers who often return to SKSN to teach the current crop of students.\n\nJanak Singh, a previous student of SKSN who now teaches at the school, went on to represent India in the mini Para Olympic Games held in England in 2009. Despite suffering from polio, he won 5 gold medals for his outstanding cricketing ability.\nPolio Children also works in partnership with the Kwa Mkono Disabled Children’s Trust to support the Kwa Mkono Disabled Children's Centre (formerly known as The Kwa Mkono Polio Hostel). The hostel offers rehabilitation, education and training to physically disabled young people which allows them to live independently when they leave. Polio Children supports an ongoing education programme for the academically-abled hostel residents, and has donated agricultural vehicles to help cultivate nearby land for self-sufficiency, along with a Land Rover for transport. Funds have also been provided to improve the infrastructure and security of the hostel with a perimeter fence and extension of the common room. In 2016, Polio Children funded the building of a new kitchen at the camp with energy efficient, low emissions stoves installed to reduce indoor air pollution. A polio sufferer at the camp expressed her gratitude at the donation by saying\n\nPolio Children works with Building Minds in South Sudan (BMISS), a non-profit organisation that provides educational opportunities to villagers in the Republic of South Sudan. The organisation seeks to restore hope by providing an education for people adversely affected by conflict in Sudan.\n\nPolio Children is working with the Magbenteh Polio Camp in Makeni to establish self-sustaining revenue generating projects. Despite the challenges presented by the ongoing Ebola crisis, in 2016 Polio Children contributed to the rehabilitation of the camp by donating cooking equipment and food.\n\nIn 2016, Polio Children worked in partnership with the Olympia Wafula Foundation, a charity established by paralympian Anne Wafula Strike, which promotes social inclusion and empowerment of differently-abled and disadvantaged persons. Together they provided tricycles for polio sufferers living in remote areas of Kenya.\n\nIn 2012 the chairman, Arun Patel, was chosen as one of only 7 Paralympic torchbearers to carry the National Flame of England, and has been honoured by both the British Citizen Awards and the Redbridge Cultural Association for his philanthropic work with the charity. Arun has also been nominated and shortlisted for both the Asian Achievers Award (2008, 2015) and World of Children Awards (2014, 2015). In addition, his brother Mayoor Patel was also nominated for the British Polio Fellowship Awards in 'Helper of the Year' category in 2008. \n\nIn November 2015, the UK Prime Minister David Cameron awarded Arun & Mayoor Patel the Points of Light Award to recognise the positive impact the charity has had on polio afflicted children across the world. The Prime Minister said:\n\nIn January 2016, The Independent reported that UK founding trustee Mayoor Patel was to be recognised in the British Citizen Awards. Mayoor Patel was awarded a BCA in the International Achievement category as a result of his endeavours to allow children disadvantaged by poverty to access university education.\n\nPolio Children was selected as a winner at the 2016 Asian Voice Charity Awards powered by Charity Clarity in recognition of their fundraising endeavours to support their portfolio of projects. In July 2016, Polio Children was also a finalist in the Charity Initiative of the Year category of the British Indian Awards. The awards recognise the commitment and hard work of the Indian community in contributing to a better society.\n\nAs a charity, Polio Children relies heavily on voluntary contributions from members of the public and philanthropic organisations. The trustees of the charity bear all the administration costs themselves ensuring 100% of the donations can be spent on the projects the charity supports.\n"}
{"id": "22417829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22417829", "title": "Polish Society of Allergology", "text": "Polish Society of Allergology\n\nPolish Society of Allergology – (Polskie Towarzystwo Alergologiczne) is polish organization founded 15 November 1982 in Bydgoszcz (Poland). It’s associating allergy specialist, internists, paediatricians, dermatologists and laryngologists specialising in allergology and related disciplines. \n\nHead office is located in Łódź (Poland). Territorial structure contains 13 Regional Offices with 1700 members. PTA mission is associating people, which are focused on allergology. PTA is representing polish allergology in Poland and in the world, popularizing knowledge of allergology in community and educating health public staff in allergology. \n\nPTA is coordinator of polish National Program of Early Diagnostic and Treatment of Asthma – POLASTMA. \n\nPTA is also member of World Allergy Organization. \n\nPresent President of PTA is Professor Barbara Rogala.\n\n"}
{"id": "49122173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49122173", "title": "Rajiv Gandhi Jeevandayee Arogya Yojana", "text": "Rajiv Gandhi Jeevandayee Arogya Yojana\n\nRajiv Gandhi Jeevandayee Arogya Yojana (RGJAY) is a Universal health care scheme run by the Government of Maharashtra for the poor people of the state of Maharashtra who holds one of the 4 cards issued by the government; Antyodaya card, Annapurna card, yellow ration card or orange ration card. The scheme was first launched in 8 districts of the Maharashtra state in July 2012 and then across all 35 districts of the state in November 2013. It provides free access to medical care in government empanelled 488 hospitals for 971 types of diseases, surgeries and therapies costing up to Rs.1,50,000 per year per family (Rs.2,50,000 only for renal transplant). As of 17 January 2016, around 11.81 lakh procedures amounting to Rs.1827 crore have been performed on patients from 7.13 lakh beneficiary families which includes over 7.27 lakh surgeries and therapies. The scheme is called successful amid some allegations of hospitals directly or indirectly causing patients to incur out-of-pockets expenses on some part of the treatment.\n\nIn 1997, the then Chief Minister of Maharashtra Manohar Joshi started 'Jeevandayee Yojana' for the poor people which covered cost of treatment of very serious illnesses. But this scheme had shortcomings. This scheme was used to cover only 4 procedures related to brain, heart, kidney and cancer. Also Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY) launched by the Government of India in 2008 had largely failed, while the Aarogyasri health insurance scheme of neighbouring Andra Pradesh state had become very successful. So the Maharashtra government closed the RSBY scheme, revamped the old 1997 'Jeevandayee Yojana' and modelled it on the 'Aarogyasri' scheme of the Andra Pradesh to cover 971 types of surgeries, therapies, procedures. It was renamed as 'Rajiv Gandhi Jeevandayee Arogya Yojana' after the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and it was launched as pilot project on 2 July 2012 over eight districts of the Maharashtra state and it covered 52.37 lakh families. These districts were Mumbai, Thane, Dhule, Nanded, Amravati, Gadchiroli, Solapur and Raigad. Under this scheme, more than 1 lakh procedures were carried out between July 2012 and October 2013. Following the success of this pilot scheme, government of Maharashtra decided to launch this scheme in all 35 districts of the state.\n\nThe scheme was launched in all 35 districts of the Maharashtra on 21 November 2013 at Nagpur by the Indian National Congress president Sonia Gandhi in the presence of Maharashtra Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan, Maharashtra Health Minister Suresh Shetty, Union Agriculture Minister Sharad Pawar, and others. The scheme now covers around 2.11 crore families from 35 districts of the Maharashtra state.\n\nUnder this scheme, Maharashtra govt pays insurance premium of Rs.333 plus taxes per year per one beneficiary family to the public sector National Insurance Company towards Rs.1,50,000 health insurance policy and the benefeciary family gets medical access for 971 surgeries, therapies and procedures in the government empanelled hospitals. The scheme covers pre-existing diseases and ailments. The scheme is launched on floater basis; that means a single member of family can get free medical access costing up to Rs.150,000 in one year or whole family can get free medical access costing up to Rs.150,000 in one year. Renal transplant is treated exceptional case and government offers up to Rs.250,000 per year for this operation. In December 2015 Maharashtra govt announced increase in limit on kidney transplant expenses from Rs 2.50 lakh to Rs 3 lakh which includes medical check-up of kidney donor and receiver. Govt also announced separate funds for poor patients to undergo dialysis.\n\nAs per RGJAY society, 6,61,333 surgeries or procedures were carried out throughout Maharashtra under this scheme until 15 November 2015 which amounted to 1641.10 crore rupees. Until December 2015, RGJAY Society had empanelled 476 hospitals across the Maharashtra state out of which 76 were government hospitals. Out of 6.62 lakh surgeries, 3.5 lakh were major surgeries and cancer surgeries ranked first followed by kidney and heart surgeries.\n\nThe TISS report observed that in public hospitals 53% beneficiaries were yellow ration card holders (BPL beneficiaries) while 47% beneficiaries were orange ration card holders (non-BPL beneficiaries). The report further observed that in private hospitals, 63% beneficiaries were orange ration card holders and 37% beneficiaries were yellow ration card holders.\n\nStatistics of beneficiaries are daily updated on RGJAY Society website which reflects data since 2 July 2012 i.e. since the commencement of the scheme. As per these statistics available as of 17 January 2016, 12,48,970 patients (from 7,22,703 beneficiary families) were enrolled across the Maharashtra state out of which 11,81,066 patients were registered. The govt has incurred 1827.7 Crore rupees until 17 January 2016 for the treatment of these patients. Out of 11,81,066 patients, surgeries and therapies were carried out on 7,27,437 patients. 14,210 death cases have occurred; 5,300 patients died in govt hospitals while 8,910 patients died in private hospitals. 6169 health camps were organized across the Maharashtra state.\n\nBelow Poverty Line families having income less than one lakh rupees per annum and who holds either Antyodaya card or Annapurna card or Yellow or orange ration card are eligible for free medical access under this scheme. The scheme does not cover Above Poverty Line families which holds white ration card. Data from valid card coupled with Aadhar card is used to issue 'Rajiv Gandhi Jeevandayee Arogya Yojana Health Card' to the beneficiary family which bears names, ages and photos of family members. Until this health card is issued, valid ration card and Aadhar card (or driving license, voter's ID card issued by the Election Commission of India) can be used to gain access to free medical care under this scheme.\n\nThe scheme covers 971 surgeries, therapies and procedures which falls under following 30 categories:\n\n\nOut of 971 procedures, 131 procedures are performed only in government hospitals. Illnesses which can be treated in primary health center or any other ordinary hospital are not covered under this scheme. Pneumonia is not covered, but advanced and serious forms of this disease and other lung related procedures like lobar pneumonia, bronchopneumonia, aspiration pneumonia, pneumoconiosis, pneumothorax, pneumonectomy, etc. are covered in this scheme. Diarrhea is not covered, but various surgical and medical gastroenterology procedures are included in this scheme. diabetes is not covered, but advanced and complicated stages of diabetes like diabetic retinopathy, diabetic ketoacidosis, uncontrolled diabetes with infectious emergencies etc. are covered under this scheme. Snakebite without ventilation support is not covered, but snakebite with ventilation support is covered under this scheme. Hernia and appendicitis are not covered, but Diaphragmatic hernia and appendicular perforation are covered. In emergency case of appendicitis, hospital may admit the patient and RGJAY Society may approve the package mentioned in the policy.\n\nIn the original scheme knee replacement and hip replacement surgeries were not included. In July 2015 it was reported that the government was considering to include these surgeries in the scheme and roll out the same from November 2015.\n\nMaharashtra govt has formed 'Rajiv Gandhi Jeevandayee Arogya Yojana Society' (RGJAY Society) to implement and monitor this scheme in coordination with the National Insurance Company (NIC). RGJAY Society and NIC has identified eligible hospitals throughout the Maharashtra and has empanelled them to implement this scheme. As of January 2016, 488 hospitals are empanelled at 35 district places. NIC and RGJAY Society has connected all of these hospitals through a computer network with dedicated database of beneficiary families. These hospitals are referred as 'Network Hospitals'.\n\nThe beneficiary patient can directly approach the network hospital. Or the patient can be referred to the network hospital by a doctor in nearby govt hospital (run by the Zilla Parishad) or by a doctor in health camp.\n\nThe govt has appointed 'Aarogyamitra' (Health Friend) in all network hospitals. This Aarogyamitra checks referral card, health card or any other necessary documents. If all documents are in order, the network hospital admits the patient and sends online pre-authorization request to the insurer NIC which can also be reviewed by the RGJAY Society. The preauthorization request is processed within 24 hours. In emergency cases, network hospital can give telephonic intimation to the NIC and approval can be granted immediately.\n\nOnce the patient is admitted, all expenses pertaining to the patient are borne by the hospital and thereafter the hospital sends bill to the insurer NIC for reimbursement. These expenses include bed charges in general ward, nursing and boarding charges, fees of doctors involved in the treatment (surgeons, anaesthetists, medical practitioner etc.), consultants fees, cost of anaesthesia, blood bottles, oxygen, operating theater charges, cost of surgical appliances, medicines and drugs, cost of prosthetic devices, implants, X-Ray and diagnostic tests, food to inpatient, one side transport cost (from Hospital to residence of patient only by bus or railway. The scheme does not cover ambulance charges for transporting patient from home to hospital or from one hospital to another hospital.) etc. That means, the patient can walk in hospital without a single rupee in his pocket and come out after full treatment of his ailment without paying any money for anything related to his treatment. The insurer has identified 125 procedures for free follow-up consultation and medicine. If the illness of the patient falls under these 125 procedures, then the hospital also covers cost of follow-up consultation and free medicine for one year from the date of discharge of the patient.\nNABH audit of network hospitals is mandatory. Government hospitals which have A1 grade gets full reimbursement of expenses incurred on the patients. Other government hospitals which have grades below A1 receives more than 10% cuts in the refund.\n\nThe process of health camps organizations is coordinated by the RGJAY Society and NIC and MDIndia Healthcare seNices acts as the third-party administrator. The venue of the health camp is identified by the district collector (or by the additional commissioner in case of BMC). Thereafter district coordinator of NIC, TPA and district health officer organizes the health camp in consultation with the network hospital and the district collector. Local NGOs can also participate in the organization of health camp. Organization of health camp is publicised through newspaper advertisements, pamphlets, local cable network, public address system etc. At least 6 MBBS doctors - 3 male and 3 female - are required to attend the patients along with 10 Aarogyamitras (5 male and 5 female).\n\nObjectives of the health camp includes identifying beneficiary families and creating awareness about the scheme among them, training generalist medical officers of primary health centers (PHCs) about 971 types of procedures so that they can refer the patients from PHCs to network hospitals after proper screening, training Aarogyamitras of PHCs about helping patients in proper documentary work etc. Basic amenities -like shade, fans, chairs, water, snacks etc. - are provided to the patients attending the camp.\n\nNetwork hospital is required to carry screening equipments like stethoscope, sphygmomanometer, glucometer, thermometer, ECG machine, fundoscope, pseudoscope, weigh machine, height scale, otoscope, tuning fork etc. Network hospital is also required to carry common drugs which includes ibuprofen, paracetamol, aspirin, diclofenac sodium, metronidazole, albendazole, norfloxacin, ciprofloxacin, ampicillin, ranitidine, B-complex etc. Doctors in health camp are required to carry out following investigations on the patients - hemogram, ESR, BSL, blood group, routine microscopic X-ray, fundoscopy, otoscopy, radiological ECG, USG, vision test, hearing test etc.\n\nAfter proper screening, if the illness of patient does not fall within 971 predefined procedures, then only free consultation is provided to the patient. If the illness falls within predefined 971 procedures, then free treatment and medicine is given to the patient in the health camp. If the patient can be treated only in the network hospital, then doctors give 'Health Camp Referral Card' to the patient which mentions all the details and date of appointment.\n\nIn February 2016, it was reported that the Maharashtra govt has decided to remove 130 procedures and add new 270 procedures in the scheme when it will sign fresh MOU with the insurance company in November 2016. Senior citizens will be the focus of new amended scheme. Govt may modify criteria of 'minimum 30 beds' to accommodate smaller hospitals in the interior area of Maharashtra.\nThe State Government of Maharashtra launched a health insurance scheme, Rajiv Gandhi Jeevandayee Arogya Yojana (RGJAY) on 2nd July 2012 in 8 districts of Maharashtra (Phase 1) and later on introduced to remaining 28 districts of Maharashtra (Phase 2). The scheme is renamed as Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana from 1st April 2017.\n\nUnder this scheme, full treatment of the beneficiary patient is supposed to be free and cashless, but as per Tata Institute of Social Sciences, 63% beneficiary patients had incurred out-of-pocket expenses for diagnostics, treatment or consumables. As per TISS, the reasons included lack of time to do paperwork, unawareness about the benefits of the scheme, lack of cooperation from the hospital staff etc. RGJAY Society denied this claim by stating that 6.62 lakh procedures were carried out, but only 6232 grievances were received which amounts to only 0.94%. The Society further said that out of 6232 grievances, 82.22% grievances were resolved. The Society has cancelled empanelment of 102 hospitals and 7 hospitals were suspended from the scheme.\n\n"}
{"id": "53863010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53863010", "title": "Regulation Focused Psychotherapy for Children (RFP-C)", "text": "Regulation Focused Psychotherapy for Children (RFP-C)\n\nRegulation Focused Psychotherapy for Children (RFP-C) is a short-term, time-limited psychodynamic treatment approach for children with disruptive behavior disorders, including oppositional defiant disorder (ODD), conduct disorder (CD), attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and disruptive mood dysregulation disorder (DMDD). RFP-C consists of 16 individual play therapy sessions plus 4 sessions with the child’s caregiver(s) only. The basis for the therapeutic process in RFP-C is that all behavior has meaning and that some children engage in disruptive behaviors as a way to avoid experiencing painful or threatening emotions such as guilt, shame, and sadness. RFP-C is an alternative to traditional cognitive-behavioral strategies used in the treatment of disruptive behavior, which employ principles of behavior modification as tools to manage behavior. Instead, RFP-C is affect-oriented, and clinicians using RFP-C focus on understanding the child’s inner world and subjective experience and communicating this inner experience to the child in a developmentally appropriate way. RFP-C conceptualizes aggressive and antisocial behaviors as products of emotional dysregulation. The goals of the child sessions are to: (1) identify which of the child’s emotions are being avoided, (2) understand how the emotion is being avoided and (3) explore why the emotion is being avoided in a maladaptive way. The goals of the caregiver sessions are to (1) obtain clinical background information, (2) develop the therapeutic alliance, and (3) provide psycho-education to aid in caregivers’ understanding of the child’s difficulties. The ultimate goal of RFP-C is to help the caregiver and child understand that all behavior, even disruptive behavior, has meaning in the service of emotional and behavioral regulation. This insight leads to a decreased need to act on the distressing emotions (i.e. less need for disruptive behaviors) and an increased ability to tolerate, work through, and talk about the feelings that previously needed to be warded off.\n\nRFP-C was codified in 2016 with the publication of the \"Manual Of Regulation-Focused Psychotherapy for Children (RFP-C) With Externalizing Behaviors: A Psychodynamic Approach\". An ongoing randomized clinical trial of RFP-C was launched by Yeshiva University in the Bronx in January 2017.\n"}
{"id": "10122924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10122924", "title": "Rotterdam Study", "text": "Rotterdam Study\n\nThe Rotterdam Study is a prospective, population-based cohort study. The aim of the Rotterdam Study is to investigate factors that determine the occurrence of cardiovascular, neurological, ophthalmological, endocrinological, and psychiatric diseases in elderly people.\n\nThe study was established in 1990 by professor Albert Hofman of the department Epidemiology & Biostatistics at the Erasmus Medical Center in Rotterdam, the Netherlands.\nInhabitants of Ommoord, a suburb of Rotterdam, were invited to participate on a regular basis.\n\nThe Rotterdam Study comprises three cohorts.\n\nThe initial cohort (RS-I) started out in 1990 with 7,983 men and women aged 55 years and over.\nFollow-up visits were held in 1994-1995, in 1997-1999, 2002–2004, and 2009-2011.\n\nIn 2000-2001 a second cohort was established (RS-II).\nAnother 3,011 inhabitants of Ommoord aged 55 years and over agreed to participate.\nThe participants of this second cohort visited the research center for a follow-up examinations in 2004-2005 and 2011-2012.\n\nThe third cohort of the Rotterdam Study (RS-III) started in 2006, this time with inhabitants aged 45 years and over. Inclusion ended in December 2008 and 3,932 participants have been included in this third cohort. The first follow-up examinations have started in 2012.\n\nA typical examination at the Rotterdam Study includes an extensive standardized home interview and two visits to the research center for clinical examinations. Risk factors are measured at the research center, which is located in the middle of the district of Ommoord.\n\nClinical outcomes are continuously monitored throughout the study period for all participants of the three cohorts. Data on morbidity and mortality are collected at general practitioners‘ practises and hospitals. Events are classified according to the ICD-10 system.\n\nA list of publications from the Rotterdam Study.\n\n"}
{"id": "34674619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34674619", "title": "Smoking companion set", "text": "Smoking companion set\n\nA smoking companion set or smoke set, is an object both decorative and useful. It has compartments for cigars, cigarettes, matches, ashtrays and burned matches. \n\nThey were popular in Europe circa 1900.\n\n"}
{"id": "50822456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50822456", "title": "Terre Haute prison experiments", "text": "Terre Haute prison experiments\n\nThe Terre Haute prison experiments were conducted by Dr. John C. Cutler in 1943 and 1944 under Dr. John F. Mahoney, the head of the Venereal Disease Research Laboratory of the US Public Health Service, to determine the effectiveness of treatments for sexually transmitted diseases. The test subjects were prisoners at the U.S. Penitentiary in Terre Haute, Indiana. They were given disclosures and consented to the experiments. A total of 241 prisoners participated in the study and received $100, a certificate of merit, and a letter of commendation to the parole board at the end of the study. The researchers deposited various strains and concentrations of gonorrhea into the penises of the test subjects. After several months, Mahoney noted that the method of inducing gonorrhea in humans was unreliable and could not provide meaningful tests of prophylactic agents.\n\nThe Terre Haute experiments laid the foundation for and bore many similarities to the Guatemala syphilis experiment, including many of the same researchers, goals, and methods.\n"}
{"id": "58074049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58074049", "title": "Terre Tarentine", "text": "Terre Tarentine\n\nThe extra-virgin olive oil Terre Tarentine is produced with the olive cultivars \"Leccino\" and \"Coratina\" and \"Ogliarola\" for, at least, 80%. They are mixed with other minor varieties of the local olive groves. It is recognised as PDO product.\n\nThe cultivation of the olive tree in the western part of the Gulf of Taranto has been introduced by the Messapians during the 10th century b.C. and it has been improved by the Greeks and the Phoenicians. In the National Archeological Museum of Taranto it is possible to see some Greek amphorae with mythological scenes linked with the olive tree and its cultivation.\n\nThe extra-virgin olive oil \"Terre Tarentine\" is produced in the western area of the province of Taranto next to the border with Basilicata on the Ionian side of Apulia. This territory includes the municipalities of Taranto, Ginosa, Laterza, Castellaneta, Palagianello, Palagiano, Mottola, Massafra, Crispiano, Statte, Martina Franca, Monteiasi and Montemesola. The soil is sandy mainly made of limestone.\n\nThe extra-virgin olive oil \"Terre Tarentine\" is yellow with green shades. It has a fruity taste with some light bitter and spicy aroma. It is perfect for vegetables (raw or cooked) and for the second courses like meat and, above all, fish. It is used for some traditional fish recipes like the ones with the Mussels of Taranto. Despite the PDO recognisement for this extra-virgin olive oil, it is very hard to find and, as opposed to the other PDO extra-virgin olive oil of Apulia, a specific market is not developed yet.\n\n"}
{"id": "3537844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3537844", "title": "Trust Doctor", "text": "Trust Doctor\n\nTrust Doctor or Trust Senior House Officer is a term applied to a doctor who is working in the National Health Service (NHS) in a non-training post, usually at senior house officer level. Doctors doing Trust Doctor jobs may subsequently secure an \"approved post\" and complete specialist training, but many others end up becoming Staff grade or Middle grade, career posts without specialist recognition. A survey by the British Medical Association showed that many of the doctors accepting Trust Doctor posts are from overseas who may settle for these posts despite having adequate qualifications, and concerns of exploitation have been raised.\n\nThe term \"trust\" derives from the fact that the doctor is contracted by the NHS trust rather than by the deanery that supervises local medical education.\n"}
{"id": "25068778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25068778", "title": "Upper Harz Ditches", "text": "Upper Harz Ditches\n\nThe Upper Harz Ditches () are hillside ditches, running roughly parallel to the contour lines, that were laid out in the Upper Harz in Germany from the 16th to the 19th centuries to supply water power to the silver mines there. They are an important component of the Upper Harz Water Regale, a historical water system that is now a cultural monument.\n\nThe ditches consist of a trench and an embankment (\"Grabenbrust\") next to it, made of spoil piled up when the ditch was excavated. The embankments are frequently protected from erosion by a dry stone wall. In most cases, they also act as inspection paths for the ditch keepers (\"Grabenwärter\") and, today, as public footpaths. The ditches are only inclined at about 1–2 ‰ (i.e. about 1 to 2 millimetres per metre). As a result, they run almost parallel to the contour lines of the terrain.\n\nAs protection against seepage the embankment and bed of the ditch are usually sealed with grass sods or clay. At inlets, where the ditch crosses forest streams, there are so-called \"Fehlschläge\", small weirs, by which the water flow in the ditch can be regulated. When water levels are high these have to be opened, i.e. the boards controlling the flow must be removed.\n\nThe hydraulic capacity of most ditches is between 100 and 200 litres per second; on the Rehberg Ditch it is up to 600 l/s and on the Dyke Ditch up to 1000 l/s.\n\nThe ditches are listed in an order which is based on the system by Preussag, who named the ditches in an order based on the power stations that could be supplied by them. At present only those working ditches still operated by the \"Harzwasserwerke\" are shown.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44211984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44211984", "title": "Urine-diverting dry toilet", "text": "Urine-diverting dry toilet\n\nA urine-diverting dry toilet (UDDT) is a type of dry toilet with urine diversion that can be used to provide safe, affordable sanitation in a variety of contexts worldwide. Through the separate collection of feces and urine without any flush water, many advantages can be realized, such as odor-free operation and pathogen reduction by drying. While dried feces and urine harvested from UDDTs can be and routinely are used in agriculture (respectively, as a soil amendment and nutrient-rich fertilizer—this practice being known as reuse of excreta in agriculture), many UDDTs installations do not apply any sort of recovery scheme. The UDDT is an example of a technology that can be used to achieve a sustainable sanitation system. This dry excreta management system (or \"dry sanitation\" system) is an alternative to pit latrines and flush toilets, especially where water is scarce, a connection to a sewer system and centralized wastewater treatment plant is not feasible or desired, fertilizer and soil conditioner are needed for agriculture, or groundwater pollution should be minimized.\n\nThere are several types of UDDTs: the single vault type which has only one feces vault; the double vault type which has two feces vaults that are used alternately; and the mobile or portable UDDTs, which are a variation of the single vault type and are commercially manufactured or homemade from simple materials. A UDDT can be configured as a sitting toilet (with a urine diversion pedestal or bench) or as a squatting toilet (with a urine diversion squatting pan). The most important design elements of the UDDT are: source separation of urine and feces; waterless operation; and ventilated vaults (also called \"chambers\") or removable containers for feces storage and treatment. If anal cleansing takes place with water (i.e., the users are \"washers\" rather than \"wipers\"), then this anal cleansing water must be drained separately and not be allowed to enter the feces vault.\n\nSome type of dry cover material is usually added to the feces vault directly after each defecation event. The dry cover material may be ash, sawdust, soil, sand, dried leaves, mineral lime, compost, or dried and decomposed feces collected in a UDDT after prudent storage and treatment. The cover material serves to improve aesthetics, control flies, reduce odor and speed up the drying process.\n\nAlternative names for UDDTs include \"urine diversion\" for the \"UD\" part (instead of \"urine-diverting\") in connection with terms like \"dehydration\", \"dry\", \"drying\", \"desiccation\" (for the second \"D\") which gives quite a high number of possible mutations of the terms that UDDT can stand for. The \"T\" always stands for toilet. These variations in wording place different emphasis on the amount of drying that takes place in the feces vaults. Probably the most advanced drying takes place in UDDTs that feature two vaults or in UDDTs that have a built-in electrical fan. As a general overarching term the adjective \"dry\" is better than \"dehydration\" as it applies to a larger range of UDDT types.\n\nUDDTs are often considered synonymous with \"ecosan toilets\" (ecological sanitation) or with composting toilets. However, neither of these associations is correct. The term ecosan is in fact much broader and not limited to this type of toilet. Not all UDDTs are used in conjunction with the practice of reusing excreta. There are also many other ecosan technologies that hygienically return nutrients to the food chain, such as subsurface artificial wetlands that produce fodder for cows. In addition, there is usually little composting taking place in the UDDT vaults (instead, it might be carried out in a secondary composting step which is external to the toilets).\n\nUrine-diverting composting toilets are similar to UDDTs in that they also collect urine and feces separately. Treatment is achieved through the composting, a process quite different from pathogen removal by dehydration.\n\nUDDTs are particularly suitable in the following situations:\n\nUDDTs can also be built for schools (many examples exist for example in Kenya, Rwanda and Uganda). However, these school UDDTs suffer from the same issues as any other type of school toilets: if clear responsibilities and a dedicated budget for the maintenance of school toilets is lacking, then the toilets may easily fall into disrepair, for example with blocked urine pipes or feces vaults that are not being emptied.\n\nUrine diversion takes advantage of the anatomy of the human body, which excretes urine and feces separately. In a UDDT, the urine is kept separate and drained via a basin with a small hole near the front of the toilet bowl or squatting pan, while feces fall through a larger drop-hole at the rear. This separate collection – or \"source separation\" – does not require the user to change positions between urinating and defecating, although some care is needed to ensure the right position over the user interface. Female users may find that some urine may enter the fecal vault during normal operation. This is typically a small amount and does not significantly affect the functioning of the toilet.\n\nThe urine separation function can also be achieved by designing the toilet bowl in such a way as to take advantage of the Coandă effect. In this design, users must direct their urine stream against the interior walls of the bowl (usually assisted by a sloping front section) so that it can be collected via a small trough that is recessed into the base of the bowl.\n\nDesigners and users of UDDTs should strive to keep the feces pile as dry as possible, as this is the most important factor in the prevention of odor and flies. During storage, the feces’ natural moisture slowly evaporates and exits via the vault’s ventilation system, or is absorbed by the dry cover material. This process is called drying, dehydration or desiccation.\n\nA UDDT consists of eight basic functional elements:\n\nThe impact of the storage time on the dryness of the feces varies with climatic conditions. A general recommendation that is applicable for all climates is that the storage duration for feces in double dehydration vaults should be at least six months, as measured from the last addition of fresh fecal matter to the vault.\n\nDuring the dehydration process moisture is evaporating from the feces and microbes are degrading the organic material. It is the dry conditions together with the storage time itself that lead to the decline of pathogens in the feces. The goal of the dehydration process is to exceed the pathogens' desiccation tolerance (or dryness tolerance) and therefore to significantly reduce their numbers and viability, for example with respect to helminth eggs which are responsible for causing helminth infections in people in developing countries, particularly children.\n\nFresh feces consist of about 80% water and the majority of this water will evaporate away if it is allowed to do so by the feces not being enclosed in air-tight containers or vaults. The water content of dried feces after six months of drying is usually less than 25%. Depending on the degree of drying and the intended reuse application an additional post-treatment step, such as composting, might be necessary for reuse of excreta in agriculture.\n\nUDDTs can also be built with a bench style toilet seat. This design has been standardised by the company Rotaria del Peru who have built by now 800 double vault bench UDDTs in and around Lima, Peru. This type of toilet has a wide, spacious bench or box, covering both feces chambers, into which two urine diversion toilet seats are integrated.\n\nUsers with disabilities can benefit from this kind of design as it is very sturdy (compared to a pedestal-type toilet). The wide bench provides space for an assistant if needed, and handrails can easily be fixed to the walls next to the toilet. Most importantly, this type of UDDT is accessible directly from the ground level and does not require access steps or ramps which are common for many UDDT designs.\n\nSuperstructures associated with UDDTs are sometimes built with steep, narrow stairs and without handrails. This design is not recommended as it can prevent users with disabilities from accessing the toilet. The needs of people with disabilities should always be considered in the design of sanitation systems, and in the case of elevated structures less steep stairs or ramps should be used instead. The aforementioned \"bench design\" can alleviate the need for stairs.\n\nIf a squatting toilet is built, it is useful to add handle bars for people who need support while squatting. For people with disabilities who need physical support while squatting, particularly when cleaning afterwards, a portable seat can be placed on the squat toilet to allow people to sit. When not needed, it can be moved out of the way.\n\nIn flood prone locations feces containers or vaults should be located above the flood water levels. If this is not feasible, it is possible to use ferrocement walls to isolate the vault(s) from encroaching flood waters.\n\nThe toilet bowls or squatting pans for UDDTs can be commercially manufactured from plastic or ceramic. Alternatively, they can be fabricated locally from cement or other materials by residents, local companies, NGOs or contractors. Stand-alone UDDT toilets made of plastic with or without built-in electrical fans are also commercially available.\n\nWaterless urinals are often installed alongside UDDTs for the convenience of male users. Urinals also reduce the risk that male users standing over the UDDT for urination (rather than sitting or squatting) inadvertently urinate into the feces vault or feces container. It is generally advisable that all UDDT users sit or squat to urinate. If urinals are provided, they can be used for those who prefer a standing position. Female urination devices are also available but they are not necessary for use with UDDTs as women normally sit or squat to urinate, a good posture which minimises urine from getting into the feces vault.\n\nUDDTs can be built as sitting or as squatting versions to accommodate the users' preference of defecation posture. Some people prefer squatting UDDTs in public places (thought to be more hygienic) but sitting UDDTs for households (thought to be more comfortable). It may be preferable to squat instead of sit for colon health, although this is not specific for UDDTs but may refer to any type of squat toilet.\n\nUDDTs with combined ventilation and collection systems can also be installed in urban multi-storey buildings but only one successful example of such a design exists: the Gebers collective housing estate in Orhem, Sweden.\n\nA much larger-scale installation which portrays the need to adhere to minimum design and installation standards existed in a project called the \"Erdos Eco-Town Project\" in Erdos located in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region of China. The project was implemented during 2003–2009. This urban installation for 3000 residents in multi-storey buildings utilized UDDTs that shared ventilation and urine collection pipework and made use of chutes that extended down into basements for the collection of feces. The UDDT system was accompanied by greywater treatment facilities, solid waste composting and the reuse of these materials as a fertilizer in agriculture.\n\nHowever, due to several problems related to improper design and installation, the lack of a cohesive plan to address these deficiencies and the resulting resident objections, the UDDTs were replaced by conventional flush toilets in 2009. The main reasons for why these UDDTs were replaced with flush toilets were:\nIf these lessons are taken into consideration, future large-scale UDDT installations in urban areas could succeed.\n\nUDDTs with a single vault have interchangeable containers to collect the fecal material. Depending on the size of the vault, two or more containers can be stored inside. Containers should be limited to a maximum volume of approximately 50 litres, so that they still can be manually moved when they fill up. Once a container is full, it can be left for further dehydration or removed for further treatment. Removal of the container requires care due to fresh, potentially pathogen-loaded feces being on top of the pile in the container. Because of the limited ventilation within a plastic bucket, such single-vault UDDTs may not reduce the pathogen load as effectively as double-vault UDDTs. Therefore, a post-treatment of the fecal material is usually required. This can be achieved through further dehydration, composting processes or heat treatments.\n\nOn the other hand, if the container is made from a material that has a high permeability with air, such as woven sacks or baskets, then the drying performance in single vault UDDTs may be similar to that of double vault UDDTs.\n\nDouble-vault UDDTs are alternatively called twin-vault, two-vault or two-chambered UDDTs. In double-vault UDDTs, the fecal material dehydrates in situ. The two above-ground vaults are used alternately. While one vault is filling up, the other (full) one stores the fecal material under dry conditions for at least six months. During this resting period, no fresh feces are allowed to enter the full vault. In order to switch from one vault to the other, the user interface can either be switched or both vaults can be equipped with fixed seats and a cover sufficient to prevent access to the full vault. When the second vault becomes full and at least 6 months have passed, the first vault is emptied with a shovel and then the user interface is moved over accordingly. The vaults are commonly sized so that one vault fills up in six to 12 months.\n\nOther types of UDDTs exist which are essentially variations of the single-vault type, but which are more self-contained, sometimes referred to as portable, mobile or stand-alone units and identifiable by their one-piece molded plastic shells or, in the case of DIY versions, simple plywood box construction. Most users of self-contained UDDTs rely upon a post-treatment process to ensure pathogen reduction. This post-treatment may consist of long-term storage or addition to an existing or purpose-built compost pile or some combination thereof. A post-treatment step is unnecessary in the case of very modest seasonal use.\n\nMobile UDDTs are typically either fabricated of new materials in a factory or workshop using a mix of proprietary and off-the-shelf parts—and then sold to the public either directly or via distributors or retail outlets; or fabricated at home out of wood, using new and re-purposed parts and materials. They are typically compact and lightweight, allowing one person to easily lift, transport, and maneuver them into place. Likewise, installation is a relatively simple process given that everything needed for the proper functioning of the toilet, except a source of electrical power for those models that include a fan and some allowance for exterior ventilation, is contained within the molded or wooden carcass. One advantage of this type of UDDT is that they are portable, making them an interesting option for remote or temporary installations and for installations aboard moving vehicles or non-stationary residences such as boats, recreational-vehicles (i.e. caravan, camper van, motor home) and tiny-houses.\n\nFeatures common to this type of UDDT include:\nFeatures unique to some designs include:\n\nDuring normal use, a UDDT is just as hygienic and safe to use as any other type of toilet. However, health aspects need to be considered during removal and emptying of the urine and feces containers of a UDDT. These health risks during emptying of the feces vault or container are significantly lower when compared to emptying the pit of pit latrines or the buckets of some types of dry toilets without urine diversion. However, the health risks are somewhat higher when compared to a flush toilet where the user does not have to carry out any emptying or maintenance tasks at the household level unless the flush toilet plugs, back-flows or otherwise experiences operating problems.\n\nCompared to a flush toilet being flushed without closing its lid, a UDDT would have a lower risk of \"Clostridium difficile\" spreading via aerosolization, as it does not involve turbulent water.\n\nRegarding the health risks associated with reuse activities, the World Health Organisation's guidelines' from 2006 titled \"Guidelines for the safe use of wastewater, excreta and greywater in agriculture\" explain the management of health risks associated with the use of excreta in agriculture. The key concept in these guidelines is the multiple barrier approach which can also be applied to reuse activities in connection with UDDTs.\n\nFor wiping of the anal area after defecation—or for wiping after urination—UDDT users can avail themselves of the same materials that are utilized while using other types of toilets. Suitable biodegradable materials available in the surroundings can also be used, such as toilet paper, leaves, corn cobs or sticks. These materials are deposited along with feces in the feces portion of the toilet so that everything can eventually decompose together. For example, in Ecuador the soft, perfumed leaves of \"Piper auritum\", \"Piperaceae\" and \"Melastomataceae\" are being used. Users have also used stones, although this makes the vault fill up very fast and is therefore not practical for UDDTs.\n\nFor portable UDDTs in particular, used toilet paper can alternatively be placed in a separate waste bin (for subsequent incineration, composting or disposal), as the addition of soiled toilet paper into the relatively small feces container could otherwise lead to it being filled rather quickly with mainly just toilet paper.\n\nUDDTs can accommodate users who prefer anal cleansing with water rather than with toilet paper by utilising either a three-hole urine diversion squatting pan or an area and drain next to the urine diversion pedestal where washing can take place—away from the urine and feces holes. This is essential so as not to contaminate the urine and to keep the feces as dry as possible.\n\nDue to the fecal content of anal cleansing water, it should be considered as blackwater and treated or disposed of accordingly. Anal cleansing water can be drained into a soak pit, planted mulch bed or an infiltration trench. The anal cleansing water should be discharged into coarse material below the ground, but well above the water table to avoid groundwater pollution.\n\nSome UDDT designs are arranged such that the users do their anal cleansing with water above the urine compartment. This may be done for simplicity reasons, i.e. in order to avoid the need for a third hole and drain pipe for the anal cleansing water. This mixture of urine and anal cleansing water requires further treatment to remove pathogens before it can be safely utilized in agriculture.\n\nWater for anal cleansing can be supplied via a hose or spigot fed by a pressurized water delivery system or a gravity fed system supplied by a rainwater tank located overhead or from a water bottle or jug that the user carries into the toilet cubicle.\n\nFor most UDDT types, users are encouraged to add a handful or scoopful of dry cover material directly after each defecation event. This cover material is added for the following purposes: to promote dry conditions in the feces vault by absorbing moisture, to control odor, to prevent infestation of flies and to create a visual barrier for the next user. It is also important to ensure that enough air can flow through the pile of drying feces. For this reason bulky or fibrous material that is dry and that decomposes slowly is recommended. A range of cover materials and combinations of these materials can be used, depending on what is readily available:\nLime and wood ash both have the advantage of raising the pH value of the feces pile, thus adding to the pathogen killing abilities.\n\nIt can be beneficial to select the cover material carefully in order to not only cover the feces but also to inoculate them with beneficial soil microbes. In that case, finished compost could be used as cover material, although it is important that the users either do not touch this cover material with their bare hands or that the composting process is sufficiently controlled such that no pathogens remain in the material.\n\nIn some circumstances and for reasons of simplicity, it can be sufficient to not use cover materials at all or to use toilet paper itself as cover material. One example is the case where the UDDT has a mechanized ventilation system and a view guard, like the UDDT manufactured by Separett which has a removable bucket, built-in fan and blue plastic view guard which closes when weight is removed from the toilet seat after use. Also in the case of public toilets, it can be easier to let the caretaker perform the task of adding cover material, rather than the user. An example of this are the public single vault UDDTs operated by the not-for-profit company Sanergy in low-income urban areas in Kenya.\n\nThe required degree of treatment for the collected dried feces depends entirely on whether this product will be reused in agriculture. If it is not reused, but only buried, then no further treatment is required. The dried feces are in almost all cases not entirely sanitized when removed from a vault of the UDDT, so careful handling is obligatory. In scenarios wherein excreta is to be reused in agriculture, a secondary treatment of fecal matter and storage of urine is advisable to ensure adequate sanitization. Fecal material from single vault UDDTs must always be post-treated, even if just via prolonged storage. Fecal material from double vaults has typically passed a certain storage time and is therefore already more sanitized. However, a secondary form of treatment is optional but recommended for household systems and required for large-scale systems.\n\nSecondary treatment can be performed at the community or household level and can include thermophilic composting where fecal material is composted at over 50 °C, prolonged storage with the duration of 1.5 to two years, chemical treatment with ammonia from urine to inactivate the pathogens, solar sanitation for further drying or heat treatment to eliminate pathogens. The most difficult pathogens to eliminate from the drying feces in the feces vaults are the helminth eggs which can cause helminth infections.\n\nReuse of treated feces in agriculture—like reuse of excreta in agriculture in general—can result in increased crop production through fertilizing effects of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and improved soil fertility through organic carbon. If the dried feces are not reused in agriculture they can instead be buried at a minimum depth of 25 cm in which case they normally do not pose a public health risk.\n\nThe required degree of treatment for the collected urine depends entirely on whether this product will be reused in agriculture. If it is not reused, but only infiltrated, then no further treatment is required.\n\nUrine that leaves the body of a healthy person is close to being sterile and requires much less treatment for pathogen removal than feces or fecal sludge. However, a contamination of urine with fecal pathogens is possible if the UDDT is not used correctly, i.e. when some fecal matter finds its way into the urine compartment. Also, for a few specific diseases, the relevant pathogens may be found in the urine; for example: Leptospira interrogans, Salmonella typhi, Salmonella paratyphi, Schistosoma haematobium, BK virus or Simian virus. The Ebola virus may also be found in urine from an infected person. The exact survival time of this particular virus in human urine outside of the human body is unclear but probably \"up to several days\" like with other body fluids at room temperature.\n\nFor these reasons, urine should always be treated for pathogen removal if it is going to be reused, unless reuse occurs at the same household where the urine was collected and on crops that are only consumed by these household members (in which case an infection amongst family members is more likely to occur via handshakes and hugs than via urine reuse activities).\n\nThe simplest and most common method of urine treatment for pathogen removal is via storage in closed vessels. The decomposition of urea that is present in urine into ammonia and hydrocarbonate leads to an increase in ammonia concentration and an increase of pH value to above 9. These two processes lead to pathogen reduction, and work more efficiently in warm temperatures and with low dilution of the urine with water.\n\nStorage of urine kills bacterial pathogens encountered in urine – including Salmonella typhi and paratyphi and Mycobacterium tuberculosis\" \"– in a relatively short time span: a storage time of five weeks at temperatures below 20 °C or of two weeks at temperatures above 20 °C has been recommended to prevent transmission of mycobacteria when recycling human urine.\n\nRecommended storage times to kill pathogens in urine vary from one to six months depending on ambient temperatures, the scale of the urine collection system and which crops will be fertilised with the urine.\n\nReuse of treated urine in agriculture—like reuse of excreta in agriculture in general—can result in increased crop production through fertilizing effects of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and improved soil fertility through organic carbon. Urine from the UDDTs can safely be used as nitrogen-rich and phosphorus and potassium containing fertilizer after a recommended storage period for pathogen reduction (see above under \"Further Treatment\").\n\nIn cases where no reuse is possible or desired, urine is usually infiltrated in the soil unless this practice would cause groundwater pollution. In eThekwini municipality in South Africa or in Lima, Peru, for example, urine from UDDTs is safely infiltrated into the soil because the groundwater level is very low there and the groundwater is not used for any particular purpose. Infiltration can be done by directing the urine to a soak pit or by running a perforated urine pipe from the toilet to an area outside, where the hose is sloping gently downhill (for rural areas). Clogging of the pipe's holes can be avoided by ensuring there are no T-junctions, no joints and that a plastic mesh is installed in the urine funnel of the toilet to keep everything other than urine out.\n\nReasons for keeping urine and feces separate in a UDDT compared to a pit latrine can be to:\nThe advantage of UDDTs compared to pit latrines is the conversion of feces into a dry odorless material and therefore an avoidance of the issues surrounding liquid fecal sludge management (e.g. odor, fly attraction, difficulties in pit emptying). A well-maintained UDDT is an odor and insect free toilet which is appreciated by users and allows simple removal and far less offensive and safer handling of the fecal material once the feces vault has filled up. Moreover, the risk of water pollution is minimised through the safe containment of feces in above-ground vaults and this allows the toilets to be constructed in locations where pit-based systems are not appropriate.\n\nUDDTs with vaults are also more permanent structures than most pit latrines, the latter of which in rural areas are typically relocated when the pit is full rather than emptying the pit. Therefore, pit latrines need more space and people are less willing to invest in a higher quality super-structure as it will have to be dismantled and moved at some point.\n\nIn the experience of the non-governmental organisation WECF who introduced UDDTs in EECCA countries to people who had pit latrines, it was most successful converting people who were in regions lacking a reliable water supply and wastewater management. Since the introduction required behavior change in the recipients, WECF considered awareness raising and training by local partners to be important.\n\nThe comparison of UDDTs with sewer-based sanitation systems (sewerage and wastewater treatment plants) is not as straightforward as the comparison with pit latrines as a sewer does not only deal with excreta management like a UDDT does, but it also transports greywater, municipal wastewater, stormwater and industrial wastewater. However, the installation of UDDTs in all households connected to a common sewer would result in vastly reduced volumes of water, nutrients and organic matter that arrive at the associated wastewater treatment plant.\n\nSewer-based excreta management is impractical in many regions due to limited water supplies and the high cost of sewer systems and wastewater treatment plants. Furthermore, water-based sanitation systems (flush toilets) dilute excreta and create vast wastewater streams, something that UDDTs do not.\n\nSimilarly, the comparison between UDDTs and septic tank-based sanitation systems is not as straightforward as the comparison with pit latrines as a septic system also treats greywater. However, the relatively high costs of septic systems, particularly mound-type septic systems can be partially mitigated or, if used in conjunction with an onsite greywater system, eliminated altogether by installing UDDTs in place of flush toilets.\n\nPortable UDDTs offer the potential advantages of greater local control and quick deployment which is particularly useful when there is no capable centralized institutional infrastructure in place or no financial ability to implement larger centralized systems.\n\nThe separate, waterless collection and treatment of urine and feces in UDDTs prevents hormones, pharmaceutical residues and other micro-pollutants which are contained in human excreta from entering surface water or groundwater via treated sewage. This is because in conventional sewage treatment plants, these micro-pollutants are only partially removed and the remainder is discharged into surface water, possibly reaching the groundwater. Detected concentrations of pharmaceutical residues in groundwater were in the order of 50 ng/L in several locations in Germany.\n\nMoreover, micro-pollutants can also become concentrated in sewage sludge. Following treatment, sewage sludge is either landfilled, incinerated, applied on agricultural land or, in some cases, retailed or given away for free to the general public. Each of these disposal options comes with myriad potential—and in some cases proven—human health and environment impacts. By not mixing human excreta with water and the other contaminants that are disposed of in sewers and septic tanks, UDDTs thus avoid many of the problems associated with these practices.\n\nIf the excreta collected from UDDTs is treated further and buried or used as agricultural or horticultural fertilizer then the pharmaceutical residues in the excreta will be degraded better in terrestrial systems (soil) than in aquatic systems. Therefore, UDDTs (or in fact all urine diversion systems) have an advantage over sewer-based sanitation systems with respect to these issue with micro-pollutants.\n\nOperational problems with UDDTs that sometimes occur include:\nEach of these problems are quite simple to solve technically in conjunction with user education and follow-up visits. However, there needs to be a commitment and willingness by the users or caretakers to resolve such problems. Due to insufficient commitment, user preparation, follow-up and support, such operational problems have on occasion led to abandonment, as in the case of several UDDT pilot projects.\n\nMore awareness is required by the UDDT user to use it properly (for instance, not urinating into feces compartment and reacting appropriately when the urine vessel is full, when there are problems with the urine soak pit, when the urine pipe is blocked or when the feces vaults or container(s) are full).\n\nOne challenge of a sanitation system with UDDTs—and perhaps even with reuse of excreta in agriculture—compared to a conventional sewer-based system is that it requires greater coordination and cooperation amongst stakeholders from different sectors.\n\nUDDTs are sometimes considered too expensive compared to pit latrines, but this criticism does not include the cost of emptying pits and the potential value of fertilizers that can be recycled via UDDTs should the users wish to do so (noting that most UDDT installations worldwide currently do not reuse excreta in agriculture). Rather than looking only at construction costs, long-term operational costs and benefits should also be considered, especially since the regular emptying or re-building of pit latrines may be a significant expense. When a period of for example 10 years is considered, UDDTs may well be the more economical alternative, since the emptying of feces vaults is simple and safer, thus less expensive, even if users decide to enter into a contract with someone else to do this.\n\nCompared to flush toilets connected to sewer systems and wastewater treatment plants, UDDTs are usually less expensive. However, to enable accurate comparisons of costs, this needs to be assessed on a case-by-case basis because the sewer system and treatment plant also transports and treats greywater whereas the UDDT does not. This means that the two systems provide a different level of service to the user. An example calculation for such a cost comparison exists for the case of Lima, Peru.\n\nThere is even a minimalist UDDT model that costs essentially nothing to construct and which only requires salvaging and assembling selected plastic items from the garbage and which can be implemented by the poorest people, disaster victims, and those who want to gain experience with UDDTs.\n\nThe UDDTs with two dehydration vaults that are known today were originally designed around 1950 in Japan and further developed in Vietnam in the 1960s as a means of increasing the hygienic safety of excreta reused in agriculture. This means their development was originally closely linked to the ecosan (ecological sanitation) approach to optimizing resource recovery of nutrients and organic matter in agriculture. Beginning in the early part of the 2000s, UDDTs have been seen increasingly as a toilet type that can provide advantages even without any reuse activities attached to it.\n\nSince the 1990s, modifications of this design (such as the addition of ventilation piping to the feces vault) have been developed in many countries. Prefabricated ceramic or plastic urine diversion squatting pans and pedestals have become available on the market, generally increasing the durability and perceived prestige associated with the system.\n\nUDDTs have also been commercially produced in Sweden since the mid-1990s. For example, between 1994 and 2010 the Separett company sold approximately 200,000 UDDTs. Numerous off-the shelf commercial products are now available and are used in locations where a connection to a sanitary sewer system is not possible, permitted or desired such as in remote summer cottages or for camping activities. At all times, users have also been building their own low-cost UDDTs with simple materials such as a funnel connected to a hose, a bucket and a seat.\n\nThe highest number of UDDTs in one area have been installed by the eThekwini Municipality in the non-sewered peri-urban areas of Durban, South Africa. To date, about 80,000 UDDTs are in operation in that area, serving about 500,000 residents (reuse of urine or excreta is currently not taking place).\n\nThe NGO SOIL in Haiti began building UDDTs and composting plants in Port-au-Prince as part of the 2010 Haiti earthquake emergency relief effort in northern Haiti. They have since branched out into providing toilets for residential use, this being their primary goal moving forward as they transition their focus from emergency relief to providing sustainable and ecological sanitation for paying customers. Their current dry toilet design for households includes a small portable single vault unit made out of wood that is either fitted with a single container for combined excreta collection or with a urine diversion insert, with 80% of these installations currently being of the UDDT type. As of 2014, SOIL has transformed all of their public UDDT vault toilets to an open vault design with removable plastic drums for feces collection. This improves the processes by which feces is collected and transported to their waste treatment facility, making their business now a fully \"container-based system\". This allows SOIL to respond to heavy use (since their toilets were filling up too quickly) and ensures a safe final product for reuse. In most cases, these UDDTs utilize soak pits (normally located directly beneath the toilet superstructure) for onsite disposal of urine.\nSOIL continues to provide humanitarian relief in some of Haiti’s most vulnerable communities – notably those that have been particularly impacted by the cholera epidemic – by providing free access to public container-based UDDTs for over 3,500 people. In addition, over 2,000 people are currently accessing a SOIL \"EcoSan toilet\" through the \"EkoLakay\" business pilot, with a growing waitlist of people wanting to join, thus demonstrating the market demand for affordable sanitation, even in the world’s most economically impoverished communities.\n\nSince building the first waste treatment facility in Haiti in 2009, SOIL has become one of the largest waste treatment operations in the country. SOIL’s two composting waste treatment facilities currently transform over 20,000 gallons (75,708 liters) of human waste into safe, organic, agricultural-grade compost every month. The compost produced at these facilities is sold to farmers, organizations, businesses, and institutions around the country to help finance SOIL’s waste treatment operations.\n\nHundreds of UDDTs have been built in Ecuador to date. The various models in use adapt to different preferences, budgets and conditions, and the need to sometimes transport materials to remote locations by small airplanes.\n\nMany of these UDDTs serve indigenous communities who live along small rivers as well as ecotourism operations in the Amazonian part of the country. In these regions, piped water supply is often lacking, clay-rich soils do not permit infiltration of wastewater, and the groundwater level is usually high. These factors make other types of toilets or other forms of excreta management problematic. For example, local governments and ecotourism operations often install flush toilets that drain straight into rivers or into holes in the ground, where the water is intended to drain but cannot, since the soil is mostly impermeable clay. Coupled with the abundant local rainfall, these pits tend to fill very fast and overflow into the nearest streams. The streams get easily contaminated with fecal matter, as they are often quite small and there is not much dilution with clean river water. This leads to health hazards for the communities who use these rivers for drinking water, washing, swimming, and fishing.\n\nIn Namibia a type of UDDT was developed which is locally called the \"Otji toilet\". This UDDT also uses the Coandă effect to divert the majority of the urine into a trough at the base of the pedestal and from there into an infiltration area. Between 2003 and 2011 about 1,200 Otji toilets have been installed in the south of Namibia and the rural areas around the Otjiwarongo District. Using the same design, the NGO EcoSur has built \"Otji style\" UDDTs in Ecuador and El Salvador since 2007, where they are called \"Inodoro Seco\".\n\n\n\nSignificant barriers to more universal acceptance of this technology differ in their extent for different parts of the world but generally include: lack of awareness, a limited supply of prefabricated UDDT components and a lack of interest in financing any sanitation services for the non-sewered portions of urban settlements. Existing, affordable piped water supply and sanitary sewer infrastructure may also be an impediment to widespread adoption of UDDTs as their existence not only removes two of the main drivers for UDDTs but also represents a significant public investment. This can restrict efforts to switch to new toilet types and sanitation systems.\n\nMany users do not have an interest in handling their excreta which can be another hurdle for acceptance of UDDTs. Therefore, provisions should be made to offer door-to-door/curbside collection of these materials, similar to how existing municipal or private schemes collect household organic waste (from kitchens and gardens, etc.) and transport these materials to a centralized facility for composting or biogas generation.\n\nIt is important that the sanitation system which is selected fits into an existing legal framework and that it has support at the local policy level and amongst the various government departments affected.\n\nPolicies could encourage the widespread use of UDDTs through financial support of research programmes, enactment of regulations that require the recovery of resources from wastewater and adequately account for the reduced contaminant loading and incentives for resource recovery.\n\nThe exact number of people using UDDTs worldwide is unknown, but a rough estimate by GIZ (German Development Cooperation) in 2012 based on known projects in 84 countries put the number at approximately 2 million people.\n\nThe International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials (IAPMO), a plumbing and mechanical code structure currently utilized by many western states, has recently proposed an addition to its \"Green Plumbing Mechanical Code Supplement\" that, \"...outlines performance criteria for site built composting toilets with and without urine diversion and manufactured composting toilets.\" If adopted, this new far reaching composting and urine diversion toilet code (the first of its kind in the United States) will appear in the 2015 edition of the Green Supplement to the Uniform Plumbing Code.\n\nSeveral U.S. states currently permit disposal of feces from UDDTs or composting toilets (usually a clear distinction between different types of dry toilets is not made) by burial with some mandating lesser minimum depths, as little as 6 inches, and others not specifying any minimum depth at all. For instance:\nFor dry toilet users in the United States (which includes users of UDDTs), an important distinction to keep in mind—and one that is supported by the aforementioned existence of numerous state regulations which make no mention of, and also diverge widely from, the requirements of the federal regulations that govern the management of sewage sludge—is that as long as the excreta in question is not ever referred to as \"fertilizer\" (but instead simply a material that is being disposed of) the federal 503 rule, known colloquially as the \"EPA Biosolids Rule\" or the \"EPA Sludge Rule\", has no jurisdiction over the byproducts of a dry toilet and that all oversight of these materials falls to the individual states.\n\nAt present reuse of urine as a fertilizer in the United States is still in the conceptual phase. Studies into its feasibility are currently underway in Brattleboro, Vermont, and are being conducted by the not-for-profit Rich Earth Institute. Perhaps accordingly, a quick review of the pertinent regulations in existence in several different states turns up zero mentions of \"urine diversion\" and zero mentions of urine specifically as a standalone material which requires distinct oversight. Instead, when it is mentioned, it is always in conjunction with feces (as in the contents of a composting toilet or other non-source separating dry toilet type. At least one state specifically regulates \"liquids\" produced but not recycled by a composting toilet (which could be construed as referring to urine) but the fact remains that none of the states surveyed distinctly uses the word \"urine\" when referring to \"liquids\". It is expected that as urine diverting toilets grow in popularity states will respond by amending their existing regulations to account for urine diverting toilets and also urine as a separate and distinct waste or resource stream.\n\nMoreover, plans are currently underway to finalize a uniform plumbing code that would, \"represent the first codified requirements for the safe installation, maintenance and use for [composting and urine diversion toilets] in any installation.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46717397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46717397", "title": "Vaginal flora in pregnancy", "text": "Vaginal flora in pregnancy\n\nThe vaginal flora in pregnancy, or vaginal microbiota in pregnancy, is different from the vaginal flora (the population of microorganisms that resides in the vagina) before sexual maturity, during reproductive years, and after menopause. A description of the vaginal flora of pregnant women who are immunocompromised is not covered in this article. The composition of the vaginal flora significantly differs in pregnancy. Bacteria or viruses that are infectious most often have no symptoms.\n\nIn normal pregnancy, the resident vaginal flora is thought to provide protection against infection. The microbiota during pregnancy is predominantly Lactobacillus spp. Microbiota composition can change during the course of the pregnancy. If the microbiota populations become more diverse, indicating that the normal Lactobacillus-dominated population has changed to a bacterial vaginosis population, risks of adverse pregnancy outcomes increase. Vaginal discharge is common during pregnancy but is not an indicator of bacterial vaginosis or abnormal Lactobacillus-dominated microbiota. The treatment of abnormal vaginal microbiota populations with lactobacilli and estriol during pregnancy was found to restore the microbiota to a normal state.\n\nBacterial vaginosis in pregnancy is an alteration of the normal vaginal microbiota of pregnancy. Intrauterine infections in pregnancy are caused by bacteria that cause inflammation. The women may experience few or no symptoms. This sometimes leads to chorioamnionitis and other negative pregnancy outcomes. When there are high bacterial counts in of the vagina during pregnancy is typically due to the presence of the following organisms:\n\n\nInvestigations into reproductive-associated microbiomes began around 1885 by Theodor Escherich. He wrote that meconium from the newborn was free of bacteria. This was interpreted as the uterine environment was sterile. Other investigations used sterile diapers for meconium collection. No bacteria were able to be cultured from the samples. Bacteria were detected and were directly proportional to the time between birth and the passage of meconium.\n\n"}
{"id": "34028187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34028187", "title": "Weed Wars", "text": "Weed Wars\n\nWeed Wars is an American reality-documentary television series that documents a popular medical marijuana dispensary, Harborside Health Center, in Oakland, California. The series premiered on the Discovery Channel on December 1, 2011. The series has since been cancelled.\n\nIn regards to their intentions by allowing their business to be documented for television, Steve DeAngelo has said, \"We wanted to be a model to other dispensaries, most of [which] have a media phobia. We wanted to tell our story and we gave Discovery complete access so that people could make up their own minds... There are a lot of stereotypes about who comes to these dispensaries, but viewers will see our customers cover a huge cross-section of the population – age, race and economic classes. They will also see how Harborside treats cannabis as a medicine, and we have a high standard of medical care.\"\n\nThe series is mainly focused on the employees of the marijuana dispensary and the day-to-day aspects of running the business. It also chronicles the various customers to the store, as well as both large-scale growers and smaller, patient cannabis growers who are allowed to grow a limited number of plants.\n\n"}
{"id": "53537472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53537472", "title": "William W. Biddle", "text": "William W. Biddle\n\nWilliam Wishart Biddle (June 19, 1900 – February 1973) was an American social scientist and a major contributor to the study of community development. His 1931 article \"A Psychological Definition of Propaganda\" was one of the early psychological works on the subject of propaganda. He was one of the earliest practitioners of community development in the United States. His book \"The Community Development Process\", written in collaboration with his wife Loureide J. Biddle, was translated into several languages. For several years, he directed a program at Earlham College known as Community Dynamics.\n"}
{"id": "17011038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17011038", "title": "Workplace (Health, Safety and Welfare) Regulations 1992", "text": "Workplace (Health, Safety and Welfare) Regulations 1992\n\nThe Workplace (Health, Safety and Welfare) Regulations 1992 is a United Kingdom Statutory Instrument that stipulates general requirements on accommodation standards for nearly all workplaces. The regulations implemented European Union directive 89/654/EEC on minimum safety and health requirements for the workplace and repeal and supersede much of the Factories Act 1961 and Offices, Shops and Railway Premises Act 1963.\n\nSince 31 December 1995, all new and existing workplaces have had to comply to these regulations.\n\nBreach of the regulations by an employer, controller of work premises or occupier of a factory is a crime, punishable on summary conviction or on indictment with an unlimited fine. Either an individual or a corporation can be punished and sentencing practice is published by the Sentencing Guidelines Council. Enforcement is the responsibility of the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) or in some cases, local authorities.\n\nThe HSE publishes a code of practice on implementing the regulations. Though a breach of the code creates neither civil nor criminal liability in itself, it could be evidential as to either. The regulations do not create duties to members of the public.\n\nThe regulations apply to all workplaces save for ships, construction sites or mines and quarries. The regulations have limited application to temporary workplaces, transport and agriculture (reg.3). The regulations do not apply in respect of exceptions in the EU directive:\n\nThe regulations impose requirements with respect to:\n\nThe provisions were simultaneously extended to Northern Ireland by the Workplace (Health, Safety and Welfare) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1993, made under the Health and Safety at Work (Northern Ireland) Order 1978.\n\n"}
{"id": "3214691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3214691", "title": "World Alliance for Breastfeeding Action", "text": "World Alliance for Breastfeeding Action\n\nThe World Alliance for Breastfeeding Action (WABA) is a network of people working on a global scale to eliminate obstacles to breastfeeding and to act on the Innocenti Declaration. The groups within this alliance tackle the problems from a variety of perspectives or point of views, such as consumer advocates, mothers, and lactation consultants.\n\nAmong the various organizations and individuals involved in the creation of WABA, Derrick and Pat Jelliffe, two experts in tropical paediatrics and infant nutrition, were instrumental in its founding and in the launching of some of its more visible early initiatives. \n\nWABA organises the \"World Breastfeeding Week\", held annually August 1 through the 7th, to put together the efforts of all breastfeeding advocates, governments, and the publicin more than 170 countries.\n\nSeveral campaigns are associated with the WABA:\n\n1991 to present - The Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative (BFHI) is a joint campaign by UNICEF and the World Health Organization, and focuses mainly on hospital practices, implementing the principles of the Innocenti Declaration.\n\n1993 - This campaign tackled the problem of developing mother-friendly workplaces. In general, they wanted mothers to be able to combine breastfeeding with their working atmosphere.\n\n1994 - The main focus of the '94 campaign was to implement again the International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes in all countries to meet the demands of the Innocenti Declaration.\n\n\"International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes\" (Rules for industries, health workers, and governments to regulate the promotion of baby products through marketing):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42390285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42390285", "title": "World Health Professions Alliance", "text": "World Health Professions Alliance\n\nThe World Health Professions Alliance is an international organization which represents than 31 million health care professionals worldwide. The Alliance unites dentistry, medicine, nursing, physical therapy and pharmacy through their representative international organizations, the International Council of Nurses (ICN), the International Pharmaceutical Federation (FIP), the World Confederation for Physical Therapy, the FDI World Dental Federation and the World Medical Association (WMA).\n\nThe WHPA was formed between ICN, FDI and WMA in 1999 as an alliance to address global health issues, with the secretariat being run from the ICN. FDI World Dental Federation was added to the Alliance in 2005 and the World Confederation for Physical Therapy joined in 2014. The aim of the organization is to facilitate collaboration between key health professionals and major international stakeholders such as governments, policy makers and the World Health Organization. The Alliance operates under the philosophy that by working in collaboration, instead of along parallel tracks, the patient and health care system benefit.\n\nSince the creation of the alliance the WHPA has taken active and leading roles in fostering patient safety, advocating a positive practice environment in the health care setting, human resource issues, regulation of the health professions, human rights in medicine, producing a core competency framework for international health consultants and discussing the future of healthcare. Other activities have involved combating counterfeit medicines, condemning the stigma associated with mental illness, multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis and tobacco.\n\nIt regularly holds a Regulation Conference and Leadership Forum.\n\nThe WHPA Secretariat is hosted at the FDI World Dental Federation in Geneva, Switzerland. \n"}
{"id": "31260093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31260093", "title": "Şahika Ercümen", "text": "Şahika Ercümen\n\nŞahika Ercümen (born 16 January 1985) is a Turkish dietitian and world record holder free-diver.\n\nBorn on January 16, 1985 in Çanakkale, she was educated at the Gazi Primary School, and received a secondary education at the Milli Piyango Anatolian High School in her hometown. For her higher education, she moved to Ankara, and became a dietitian graduating from the Department of Nutrition and Dietetics at Başkent University's Faculty of Health Sciences.\n\nHer participation in underwater sports began with scuba diving and underwater rugby. For twelve years, she is interested in various branches of underwater sports, and is a member of four national teams since 2001. She participated with the underwater hockey, underwater rugby, underwater orienteering and free diving national teams in the World and European Championships.\n\nHer long dynamic apnea under ice (DYN) that was achieved on February 11, 2011 in Lake Weissensee, Austria, found entry into the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" for both for men and women. Former records were for women and for men.\n\nŞahika Ercümen is former world record holder of constant weight with fins at sea (CWT) discipline with set in Dahab, Egypt on November 10, 2011 (recognized by CMAS). The former record belonged to Tanya Streeter with . The same day at the same place, she set another CMAS-recognized world record diving deep in variable weight apnea without fins at sea (VNF).\n\nOn June 1, 2013, she broke her own world record diving in the VNF discipline to a depth of in saline soda waters of Lake Van, eastern Turkey (recognized by CMAS). She stated that she preferred the site for her world-record free-diving attempt because she wanted to call world's attention to the migration of Pearl Mullet (Chalcalburnus tarichi), also called Lake Van fish.\n\nShe set a new free-diving world record in the VNF discipline reaching the depth mark in 2:49 minutes at Kaş, Antalya, southern Turkey on July 23, 2014. Former record in this discipline, which was set the previous year, belonged to Derya Can, another Turkish diver.\n\nOn October 22, 2016, Ercümen set a new world record off Kaş, Turkey diving to a depth of in the variable weight apnea with fins at sea (VWT) discipline in 2:44 minutes. Her record was recognized by CMAS officials at site.\n\nShe set a new CMAS world record for women diving in sweet water of Lake Salda in Yeşilova, Butdur Province, Turkey to in 1:58 minutes. The previous world record was at . \n\n\n"}
