{"id": "19326063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19326063", "title": "Alpine pearls", "text": "Alpine pearls\n\nAlpine Pearls is a cooperation which has been established in 2006 and formed of 25 tourism municipalities in six alpine countries. The tourism association’s objective is to support and promote Soft Mobility: that is offering the possibility for guests to arrive without a car at the holiday destination and to have easy access to public transportation on site as well as numerous offers of environmentally friendly holiday programmes. The cooperation’s members fulfill strict quality criteria like town centers with reduced traffic, transfer services, environmentally friendly leisure time facilities, the guarantee of mobility without car and ecological minimum standards. The individual member municipalities (referred to as Pearls) benefit from the exchange of experiences among each other.\n\nAlpine Pearls is the result of two successive EU projects (Alps Mobility and Alps Mobility II – Alpine Pearls). The emphasis was put on creating innovative, sustainable tourism offers which combine tourist sights with Soft Mobility advantages; connecting the sights with ecological transportation. The achievements are used further and put into practice by the head organization Alpine Pearls which operates in the entire Alps.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "468881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=468881", "title": "Anne Oldfield", "text": "Anne Oldfield\n\nAnne Oldfield (168323 October 1730) was an English actress. She was born in London, to Anne Gourlaw and William Oldfield, a soldier.\n\nDespite her rough economic background, Oldfield must have had a basic education because her biographers recount that she read plays voraciously throughout her youth. In 1699, she attracted George Farquhar's attention when he overheard her reciting lines from Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher’s play \"The Scornful Lady\" (1616) in a back room of her tavern. Soon after, she was hired by Christopher Rich to join the cast of the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane.\n\nIt took nearly a year before she landed her first small role as Candiope in John Dryden’s \"Secret Love; or, The Maiden Queen\" (1699). After her success in a minor role, she was given the lead in John Fletcher’s \"The Pilgrim\" (1647). However, Oldfield wasn't truly noticed until the summer of 1703 when Susanna Verbruggen's contract was terminated before the company traveled to Bath to perform for Queen Anne and her court.\n\nOldfield became one of Drury Lane's leading actresses. Colley Cibber acknowledged that she had as much as he to do with the success of his \"The Careless Husband\" (1704), in which she created the part of Lady Modish. Of her portrayal of Lady Townly in his \"The Provok'd Husband\" (1728), Cibber was to say, \"that here she outdid her usual Outdoing.\" She also played the title role in Ben Jonson's \"Epicoene\", and Celia in his \"Volpone\". In tragedy, too, she won laurels, and the list of her parts, many of them original, is a long and varied one.\n\nLondon gossip believed there to be rivalries between Oldfield, Anne Bracegirdle, Jane Rogers and Susannah Centlivre, all of whom were supposedly vying for the best roles. In 1706 Oldfield entered a conflict with the Drury Lane's management over benefits and salary she believed she had been promised, but which the theater refused to provide. Oldfield left and joined the competing acting company at Haymarket Theatre before returning to Drury Lane shortly after with a fresh contract and a new position as joint-sharer of the Drury Lane Theater. On a separate occasion, Oldfield was offered to become manager of the Theatre, \"but her sex was thought to be an objection to that measure\" thus being asked to name her own terms to stay in her old position, Oldfield received 200 guieneas salary, which was ultimately raised to 500 guineas - ensuring Oldfield was the highest paid actress of her time.\nAnne Oldfield began a decade-long relationship with Whig politician Arthur Maynwaring sometime around 1700. Despite the fact that previous generations of actresses relied heavily on the patronage of their lovers, Oldfield remained financially independent from Maynwaring. He supported her career by helping her work through new roles and by writing more than a dozen prologues and epilogues for her to perform. When she became pregnant with their son, Arthur, Oldfield kept acting until she was physically unable, an unusual decision in a time when most actresses were pressured to take a leave of absence throughout the duration of their pregnancy. She went back to work just three months after the birth. In her turn Oldfield arranged for her lifelong friend Margaret Saunders to join the acting profession.\n\nWhen Maynwaring died in 1712, Oldfield was tortured with rumors that he had died from a venereal disease that she had given to him. In order to clear both their names, she ordered an official autopsy to be performed on her former lover's body, which revealed that he had, in fact, died of tuberculosis. Oldfield was three months pregnant at the time, but her child is not believed to have survived the birth.\n\nSeveral years after Maynwaring's death, Oldfield began a relationship with Charles Churchill. The two lived together for many years and had a son, Charles. However, during this pregnancy, Oldfield had many negative side effects and was forced to leave the theater for several months. She never fully recovered her health.\n\nThroughout her last theatrical season she suffered from chronic pain in her abdomen. She retired from the stage in April 1730 and died from cancer in her reproductive organs a few months later.\n\nAnne Oldfield was the theatrical idol of her day. Her exquisite acting and ladylike carriage were the delight of her contemporaries, and her beauty and generosity found innumerable eulogists, as well as sneering detractors. Alexander Pope, in his \"Sober Advice from Horace\", wrote of her \"Engaging Oldfield, who, with grace and ease, Could join the arts to ruin and to please.\" It was to her that he alluded as the lady who detested being buried in woollen, who said to her maid \"No, let a charming chintz and Brussels lace Wrap my cold limbs and shade my lifeless face; One would not, sure, be frightful when one's dead, And Betty give this cheek a little red.\"\n\nOldfield was forty-seven when she died on 23 October 1730 at 60 Grosvenor Street, London. She divided her property, for that time a large one, between her two sons. Oldfield was buried in Westminster Abbey, beneath the monument to Congreve. Her partner, Churchill, applied for permission to erect a monument there to her memory, but the dean of Westminster refused it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1118008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1118008", "title": "Anthotype", "text": "Anthotype\n\nAn anthotype is an image created using photosensitive material from plants. This process was originally invented by Sir John Herschel in 1842. An emulsion is made from crushed flower petals or any other light-sensitive plant, fruit or vegetable. A coated sheet of paper is then dried. Place some material, for example leaves or a transparent photo positive on the paper and expose to direct full sunlight until the image part not covered by the material is bleached out by the sun rays. The color remains or fades in the shadowed parts. The paper remains sensitive against such rays.\n\nThe photo-sensitive properties of plants and vegetables have been known to scholars for centuries. Among many early observations the experiments of Henri August Vogel in Paris are of particular interest. He discovered in 1816:\n\nAn alcoholic tincture of either red carnations, violets or corn poppy turned white behind blue glass in a few days, while it remained unchanged behind red glass after about the same time. Cotton and paper colored with these tinctures exhibited the same differences.\n\nLater that century Herschel attempted to invent a color process, he tried several flower and plant emulsions and published his findings. His research resulted in the anthotype process. It should be pointed out that his research into making photographic images from flowers was limited and was ultimately abandoned since no commercial application was feasible from a process which takes days to produce an image. The process continued to be listed in photographic literature of the time but was likely little used.\n\nOver time the process has earned a misleading reputation for being simply too impractical. Image permanence have been brought into question to this day but this problem seems to be mostly related to choice of flower or plant matter.\n\nHenry H. Snelling writes based on his research: \"Viola odorata--or sweet scented violet, yields to alcohol a rich blue color, which it imparts in high perfection to paper. Senecio Splendens -- or double purple groundsel, yields a beautiful color to paper.\"\n\nBingham, quoting by Sir John Herschel, recommends Corchorus japonicus flower (japanese Jute) for a \"\"fine yellow colour\" that \"upon exposure to sunlight, it is in about half an hour rendered quite white\"\". \n\nSnelling, Henry H. \"The History and Practice of the Art of Photography\". New York, 1849. on Gutenberg\n"}
{"id": "36719728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36719728", "title": "Art in Defence of Humanism", "text": "Art in Defence of Humanism\n\nAidoh is an shortening for \"Art In Defence Of Humanism\". AIDOH was created by the Danish artist Jens Galschiot as a group focusing on the inhuman treatment of people in different countries related to political, religious or economic interests. The group has with several occasions started a public debate about the individual countries overconsumption or governments repressive treatment of its own people.\n\nPigs in coats made of 1 ton black concrete. Is named one of the biggest art happenings in Europe. 20 sculptures were placered on public places in Europe without official approval. It took 55 hours to put the \"pigs\" up, and the happening created a lot of public debate.\n\nIn connection with UN's sociale summit in Copenhagen, were there placed 750 dolls, that pictured dead children in the age of 3–9 years. They were placed on street lamps, benches, fountains and other places to symbolizes the 35.000 children's that dies every day in the world.\n\nWere placed in Hong Kong June 4, 1997. Since it has been placed in many other places in the world where the governments does not respect the human rights. \nThe Pillar of Shame is in copper and is 8 meters tall. It consists of more than 50 tangled human bodies in pain. \nThe Pillar of Shame is like a Nobel Prize in injustice.\n\nFollowing sculptures were placed in Hong Kong at December 2005:\n\nIn the name of God is a number of art installations, that puts focus on Catholics prohibition against the use of condoms. It consists of a crucified pregnant teenager. It has been exhibited in Denmark, Sweden, Nicaragua and Kenya.\n\n"}
{"id": "4492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4492", "title": "Baghdad", "text": "Baghdad\n\nBaghdad (; ) is the capital of Iraq. The population of Baghdad, , is approximately 8,765,000, making it the largest city in Iraq, the second largest city in the Arab world (after Cairo, Egypt), and the second largest city in Western Asia (after Tehran, Iran).\n\nLocated along the Tigris River, the city was founded in the 8th century and became the capital of the Abbasid Caliphate. Within a short time of its inception, Baghdad evolved into a significant cultural, commercial, and intellectual center for the Islamic world. This, in addition to housing several key academic institutions (e.g., House of Wisdom), garnered the city a worldwide reputation as the \"Centre of Learning\". \n\nBaghdad was the largest city of the Middle Ages for much of the Abbasid era, peaking at a population of more than a million. The city was largely destroyed at the hands of the Mongol Empire in 1258, resulting in a decline that would linger through many centuries due to frequent plagues and multiple successive empires. With the recognition of Iraq as an independent state (formerly the British Mandate of Mesopotamia) in 1938, Baghdad gradually regained some of its former prominence as a significant center of Arab culture. \n\nIn contemporary times, the city has often faced severe infrastructural damage, most recently due to the 2003 invasion of Iraq, and the subsequent Iraq War that lasted until December 2011. In recent years, the city has been frequently subjected to insurgency attacks. The war had resulted in a substantial loss of cultural heritage and historical artifacts as well. , Baghdad was listed as one of the least hospitable places in the world to live, and was ranked by Mercer as the worst of 221 major cities as measured by quality-of-life.\n\nThe name Baghdad is pre-Islamic, and its origin is disputed. The site where the city of Baghdad developed has been populated for millennia. By the 8th century AD, several villages had developed there, including a Persian hamlet called \"Baghdad,\" the name which would come to be used for the Abbasid metropolis.\n\nArab authors, realizing the pre-Islamic origins of Baghdad's name, generally looked for its roots in Persian. They suggested various meanings, the most common of which was \"bestowed by God\". Modern scholars generally tend to favor this etymology, which views the word as a compound of \"bagh\" () \"god\" and \"dād\" () \"given\", In Old Persian the first element can be traced to \"boghu\" and is related to Slavic \"bog\" \"god\", while the second can be traced to \"dadāti\". A similar term in Middle Persian is the name \"Mithradāt\" (\"Mihrdād\" in New Persian), known in English by its Hellenistic form Mithridates, meaning \"gift of Mithra\" (\"dāt\" is the more archaic form of \"dād\", related to Latin \"dat\" and English \"donor\"). There are a number of other locations in the wider region whose names are compounds of the word \"bagh\", including Baghlan and Bagram in Afghanistan or a village called Bagh-šan in Iran. The name of the town Baghdati in Georgia shares the same etymological origins.\n\nA few authors have suggested older origins for the name, in particular the name \"Bagdadu\" or \"Hudadu\" that existed in Old Babylonian (spelled with a sign that can represent both \"bag\" and \"hu\"), and the Babylonian Talmudic name of a place called \"Baghdatha\". Some scholars suggested Aramaic derivations.\n\nWhen the Abbasid caliph, al-Mansur, founded a completely new city for his capital, he chose the name Madinat al-Salaam or \"City of Peace\". This was the official name on coins, weights, and other official usage, although the common people continued to use the old name. By the 11th century, \"Baghdad\" became almost the exclusive name for the world-renowned metropolis.\n\nAfter the fall of the Umayyads, the first Muslim dynasty, the victorious Abbasid rulers wanted their own capital from which they could rule. They chose a site north of the Sassanid capital of Ctesiphon (and also just north of where ancient Babylon had once stood), and on 30 July 762 the caliph Al-Mansur commissioned the construction of the city. It was built under the supervision of the Barmakids. Mansur believed that Baghdad was the perfect city to be the capital of the Islamic empire under the Abbasids. Mansur loved the site so much he is quoted saying: \"This is indeed the city that I am to found, where I am to live, and where my descendants will reign afterward\".\n\nThe city's growth was helped by its excellent location, based on at least two factors: it had control over strategic and trading routes along the Tigris, and it had an abundance of water in a dry climate. Water exists on both the north and south ends of the city, allowing all households to have a plentiful supply, which was very uncommon during this time.\n\nBaghdad eclipsed Ctesiphon, the capital of the Sassanians, which was located some to the southeast. Today, all that remains of Ctesiphon is the shrine town of Salman Pak, just to the south of Greater Baghdad. Ctesiphon itself had replaced and absorbed Seleucia, the first capital of the Seleucid Empire, which had earlier replaced the city of Babylon.\n\nAccording to the traveler Ibn Battuta, Baghdad was one of the largest cities, not including the damage it has received. The residents are mostly Hanbal. Bagdad is also home to the grave of Abu Hanifa where there is a cell and a mosque above it. The Sultan of Bagdad, Abu Said Bahadur Khan, was a Tartar king who embraced Islam.\n\nIn its early years, the city was known as a deliberate reminder of an expression in the Qur'an, when it refers to Paradise. It took four years to build (764–768). Mansur assembled engineers, surveyors, and art constructionists from around the world to come together and draw up plans for the city. Over 100,000 construction workers came to survey the plans; many were distributed salaries to start the building of the city. July was chosen as the starting time because two astrologers, Naubakht Ahvazi and Mashallah, believed that the city should be built under the sign of the lion, Leo. Leo is associated with fire and symbolises productivity, pride, and expansion.\n\nThe bricks used to make the city were on all four sides. Abu Hanifah was the counter of the bricks and he developed a canal, which brought water to the work site for both human consumption and the manufacture of the bricks. Marble was also used to make buildings throughout the city, and marble steps led down to the river's edge.\n\nThe basic framework of the city consists of two large semicircles about in diameter. The city was designed as a circle about in diameter, leading it to be known as the \"Round City\". The original design shows a single ring of residential and commercial structures along the inside of the city walls, but the final construction added another ring inside the first. Within the city there were many parks, gardens, villas, and promenades. In the center of the city lay the mosque, as well as headquarters for guards. The purpose or use of the remaining space in the center is unknown. The circular design of the city was a direct reflection of the traditional Persian Sasanian urban design. The Sasanian city of Gur in Fars, built 500 years before Baghdad, is nearly identical in its general circular design, radiating avenues, and the government buildings and temples at the centre of the city. This style of urban planning contrasted with Ancient Greek and Roman urban planning, in which cities are designed as squares or rectangles with streets intersecting each other at right angles.\n\nThe four surrounding walls of Baghdad were named Kufa, Basra, Khurasan, and Syria; named because their gates pointed in the directions of these destinations. The distance between these gates was a little less than . Each gate had double doors that were made of iron; the doors were so heavy it took several men to open and close them. The wall itself was about 44 m thick at the base and about 12 m thick at the top. Also, the wall was 30 m high, which included merlons, a solid part of an embattled parapet usually pierced by embrasures. This wall was surrounded by another wall with a thickness of 50 m. The second wall had towers and rounded merlons, which surrounded the towers. This outer wall was protected by a solid glacis, which is made out of bricks and quicklime. Beyond the outer wall was a water-filled moat.\n\nThe Golden Gate Palace, the residence of the caliph and his family, was in the middle of Baghdad, in the central square. In the central part of the building, there was a green dome that was 39 m high. Surrounding the palace was an esplanade, a waterside building, in which only the caliph could come riding on horseback. In addition, the palace was near other mansions and officer's residences. Near the Gate of Syria, a building served as the home for the guards. It was made of brick and marble. The palace governor lived in the latter part of the building and the commander of the guards in the front. In 813, after the death of caliph Al-Amin, the palace was no longer used as the home for the caliph and his family.\nThe roundness points to the fact that it was based on Arabic script. The two designers who were hired by Al-Mansur to plan the city's design were Naubakht, a Zoroastrian who also determined that the date of the foundation of the city would be astrologically auspicious, and Mashallah, a Jew from Khorasan, Iran.\n\nThe justification for the Abbasid Caliphate was based on the Abbasids being the descendants of the uncle of Muhammad and being part of the Quraysh tribe. They used Shi'a resentment, Khorasanian movement, and appeals to the ambitions and traditions of the newly conquered Persian aristocracy to overthrow the Umayyads.\nThe Abbasids sought to combine the hegemony of the Arab tribes with the imperial, court, ceremonial, and administrative structures of the Persians. The Abbasids considered themselves the inheritors of Arab-Islamic culture. Harun al-Rashid needed to place the capital in a place that was representative of Arab-Islamic identity and built the House of Wisdom, where ancient texts were translated from their original language, such as Greek, to Arabic. Al-Ma'mun is credited with the \"Translation Movement\" for this.\n\nWithin a generation of its founding, Baghdad became a hub of learning and commerce. \"Baytul-Hikmah\" or the \"House of Wisdom\", initially founded as a library for private use by Harun al-Rashid, flourished into an unrivaled intellectual center of science, medicine, philosophy, and education and had the largest selection of books in the world by the middle of the 9th century. Baghdad was likely the largest city in the world from shortly after its foundation until the 930s, when it tied with Córdoba.\nSeveral estimates suggest that the city contained over a million inhabitants at its peak. Many of the \"One Thousand and One Nights\" tales, widely known as the \"Arabian Nights\", are set in Baghdad during this period.\n\nAmong the notable features of Baghdad during this period were its exceptional libraries. Many of the Abbasid caliphs were patrons of learning and enjoyed collecting both ancient and contemporary literature. Although some of the princes of the previous Umayyad dynasty had begun to gather and translate Greek scientific literature, the Abbasids were the first to foster Greek learning on a large scale. Many of these libraries were private collections intended only for the use of the owners and their immediate friends, but the libraries of the caliphs and other officials soon took on a public or a semi-public character. Four great libraries were established in Baghdad during this period. The earliest was that of the famous Al Mamun, who was caliph from 813 to 833. Another was established by Sabur Ibn Ardashir in 991 or 993 for the literary men and scholars who frequented his academy. Unfortunately, this second library was plundered and burned by the Seljuks only seventy years after it was established. This was a good example of the sort of library built up out of the needs and interests of a literary society. The last two were examples of \"madrasa\" or theological college libraries. The Nizamiyah was founded by the Persian Nizam al Mulk, who was vizier of two early Seljuk sultans. It continued to operate even after the coming of the Mongols in 1258. The Mustansiriyah \"madrasa\", which owned an exceedingly rich library, was founded by Al Mustansir, the second last Abbasid caliph, who died in 1242. This would prove to be the last great library built by the caliphs of Baghdad.\n\nBy the 10th century, the city's population was between 1.2 million and 2 million. Baghdad's early meteoric growth eventually slowed due to troubles within the Caliphate, including relocations of the capital to Samarra (during 808–819 and 836–892), the loss of the western and easternmost provinces, and periods of political domination by the Iranian Buwayhids (945–1055) and Seljuk Turks (1055–1135).\n\nThe Seljuks were a clan of the Oghuz Turks from Central Asia that converted to the Sunni branch of Islam. In 1040, they destroyed the Ghaznavids, taking over their land and in 1055, Tughril Beg, the leader of the Seljuks, took over Baghdad. The Seljuks expelled the Buyid dynasty of Shiites that had ruled for some time and took over power and control of Baghdad. They ruled as Sultans in the name of the Abbasid caliphs (they saw themselves as being part of the Abbasid regime). Tughril Beg saw himself as the protector of the Abbasid Caliphs.\n\nSieges and wars in which Baghdad was involved are listed below:\n\n\nIn 1058, Baghdad was captured by the Fatimids under the Turkish general Abu'l-Ḥārith Arslān al-Basasiri, an adherent of the Ismailis along with the 'Uqaylid Quraysh. Not long before the arrival of the Saljuqs in Baghdad, al-Basasiri petitioned to the Fatimid Imam-Caliph al-Mustansir to support him in conquering Baghdad on the Ismaili Imam's behalf. It has recently come to light that the famed Fatimid \"da'i\", al-Mu'ayyad al-Shirazi, had a direct role in supporting al-Basasiri and helped the general to succeed in taking Mawṣil, Wāsit and Kufa. Soon after, by December 1058, a Shi'i \"adhān\" (call to prayer) was implemented in Baghdad and a \"khutbah\" (sermon) was delivered in the name of the Fatimid Imam-Caliph. Despite his Shi'i inclinations, Al-Basasiri received support from Sunnis and Shi'is alike, for whom opposition to the Saljuq power was a common factor.\nOn 10 February 1258, Baghdad was captured by the Mongols led by Hulegu, a grandson of Chingiz Khan (Genghis Khan), during the siege of Baghdad. Many quarters were ruined by fire, siege, or looting. The Mongols massacred most of the city's inhabitants, including the caliph Al-Musta'sim, and destroyed large sections of the city. The canals and dykes forming the city's irrigation system were also destroyed. During this time, in Baghdad, Christians and Shia were tolerated, while Sunnis were treated as enemies. The sack of Baghdad put an end to the Abbasid Caliphate. It has been argued that this marked an end to the Islamic Golden Age and served a blow from which Islamic civilisation never fully recovered.\n\nAt this point, Baghdad was ruled by the Ilkhanate, a breakaway state of the Mongol Empire, ruling from Iran. In 1401, Baghdad was again sacked, by the Central Asian Turkic conqueror Timur (\"Tamerlane\"). When his forces took Baghdad, he spared almost no one, and ordered that each of his soldiers bring back two severed human heads. Baghdad became a provincial capital controlled by the Mongol Jalayirid (1400–1411), Turkic Kara Koyunlu (1411–1469), Turkic Ak Koyunlu (1469–1508), and the Iranian Safavid (1508–1534) dynasties.\n\nIn 1534, Baghdad was captured by the Ottoman Turks. Under the Ottomans, Baghdad continued into a period of decline, partially as a result of the enmity between its rulers and Iranian Safavids, which did not accept the Sunni control of the city. Between 1623 and 1638, it returned to Iranian rule before falling back into Ottoman hands.\n\nBaghdad has suffered severely from visitations of the plague and cholera, and sometimes two-thirds of its population has been wiped out.\n\nFor a time, Baghdad had been the largest city in the Middle East. The city saw relative revival in the latter part of the 18th century under a Mamluk government. Direct Ottoman rule was reimposed by Ali Rıza Pasha in 1831. From 1851 to 1852 and from 1861 to 1867, Baghdad was governed, under the Ottoman Empire by Mehmed Namık Pasha. The Nuttall Encyclopedia reports the 1907 population of Baghdad as 185,000.\n\nBaghdad and southern Iraq remained under Ottoman rule until 1917, when captured by the British during World War I. In 1920, Baghdad became the capital of the British Mandate of Mesopotamia and after receiving independence in 1932, the capital of the Kingdom of Iraq. The city's population grew from an estimated 145,000 in 1900 to 580,000 in 1950. During the Mandate, Baghdad's substantial Jewish community comprised a quarter of the city's population.\n\nOn 1 April 1941, members of the \"Golden Square\" and Rashid Ali staged a coup in Baghdad. Rashid Ali installed a pro-German and pro-Italian government to replace the pro-British government of Regent Abdul Ilah. On 31 May, after the resulting Anglo-Iraqi War and after Rashid Ali and his government had fled, the Mayor of Baghdad surrendered to British and Commonwealth forces.\n\nOn 14 July 1958, members of the Iraqi Army, under Abd al-Karim Qasim, staged a coup to topple the Kingdom of Iraq. King Faisal II, former Prime Minister Nuri as-Said, former Regent Prince 'Abd al-Ilah, members of the royal family, and others were brutally killed during the coup. Many of the victim's bodies were then dragged through the streets of Baghdad.\nDuring the 1970s, Baghdad experienced a period of prosperity and growth because of a sharp increase in the price of petroleum, Iraq's main export. New infrastructure including modern sewerage, water, and highway facilities were built during this period. The masterplans of the city (1967, 1973) were delivered by the Polish planning office Miastoprojekt-Kraków, mediated by Polservice. However, the Iran–Iraq War of the 1980s was a difficult time for the city, as money was diverted by Saddam Hussein to the army and thousands of residents were killed. Iran launched a number of missile attacks against Baghdad in retaliation for Saddam Hussein's continuous bombardments of Tehran's residential districts.\n\nIn 1991 and 2003, the Gulf War and the 2003 invasion of Iraq caused significant damage to Baghdad's transportation, power, and sanitary infrastructure as the US-led coalition forces launched massive aerial assaults in the city in the two wars. Also in 2003, the minor riot in the city (which took place on 21 July) caused some disturbance in the population.\n\nThe historic \"Assyrian Quarter\" of the city, Dora, which boasted a population of 150,000 Assyrians in 2003, made up over 3% of the capital's Assyrian population then. The community has been subject to kidnappings, death threats, vandalism, and house burnings by Al-Qaeda and other insurgent groups. As of the end of 2014, only 1,500 Assyrians remained in Dora. \n\nPoints of interest include the National Museum of Iraq whose priceless collection of artifacts was looted during the 2003 invasion, and the iconic Hands of Victory arches. Multiple Iraqi parties are in discussions as to whether the arches should remain as historical monuments or be dismantled. Thousands of ancient manuscripts in the National Library were destroyed under Saddam's command.\n\nMutanabbi Street (Arabic: شارع المتنبي) is located near the old quarter of Baghdad; at Al Rasheed Street. It is the historic center of Baghdadi book-selling, a street filled with bookstores and outdoor book stalls. It was named after the 10th-century classical Iraqi poet Al-Mutanabbi. This street is well established for bookselling and has often been referred to as the heart and soul of the Baghdad literacy and intellectual community.\n\nThe zoological park used to be the largest in the Middle East. Within eight days following the 2003 invasion, however, only 35 of the 650 animals in the facility survived. This was a result of theft of some animals for human food, and starvation of caged animals that had no food. South African Lawrence Anthony and some of the zoo keepers cared for the animals and fed the carnivores with donkeys they had bought locally. Eventually, Paul Bremer, Director of the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq from 11 May 2003 to 28 June 2004 ordered protection of the zoo and U.S. engineers helped to reopen the facility.\n\nGrand Festivities Square is the main square where public celebrations are held and is also the home to three important monuments commemorating Iraqi's fallen soldiers and victories in war; namely Al-Shaheed Monument, the Victory Arch and the Unknown Soldier's Monument.\n\nAl-Shaheed Monument (), also known as the Martyr's Memorial, is a monument dedicated to the Iraqi soldiers who died in the Iran–Iraq War. However, now it is generally considered by Iraqis to be for all of the martyrs of Iraq, especially those allied with Iran and Syria currently fighting ISIS, not just of the Iran–Iraq War. The Monument was opened in 1983, and was designed by the Iraqi architect Saman Kamal and the Iraqi sculptor and artist Ismail Fatah Al Turk. During the 1970s and 1980s, Saddam Hussein's government spent a lot of money on new monuments, which included the al-Shaheed Monument.\n\nQushla (or Qishla, ) is a public square and the historical complex located in Rusafa neighborhood at the riverbank of Tigris. Qushla and its surroundings is where the historical features and cultural capitals of Baghdad are concentrated, from the Mutanabbi Street, Abbasid-era palace and bridges, Ottoman-era mosques to the Mustansariyah Madrasa. The square developed during the Ottoman era as a military barracks. Today, it is a place where the citizens of Baghdad find leisure such as reading poetry in gazebos. It is characterized by the iconic clock tower which was donated by George V. The entire area is currently submitted to the UNESCO World Heritage Site Tentative list.\n\nAl-Kadhimiyyah Masjid is a shrine that is located in the Kādhimayn suburb of Baghdad. It contains the tombs of the seventh and ninth Twelver Shi'ite Imams, Musa al-Kadhim and Muhammad at-Taqi respectively, upon whom the title of \"Kāẓimayn\" (, \"Two who swallow their anger\") was bestowed. Many Shi'ites travel to the mosque from far away places to commemorate.\n\nA'dhamiyyah is a predominantly Sunni area with a Masjid that is associated with the Sunni Imam Abu Hanifah. The name of \"Al-A‘ẓamiyyah\" () is derived from Abu Hanifah's title, \"al-Imām al-A‘ẓam\" (, the Great Imam).\n\nFirdos Square is a public open space in Baghdad and the location of two of the best-known hotels, the Palestine Hotel and the Sheraton Ishtar, which are both also the tallest buildings in Baghdad. The square was the site of the statue of Saddam Hussein that was pulled down by U.S. coalition forces in a widely televised event during the 2003 invasion of Iraq.\n\nAdministratively, Baghdad Governorate is divided into districts which are further divided into sub-districts. Municipally, the governorate is divided into 9 municipalities, which have responsibility for local issues. Regional services, however, are coordinated and carried out by a mayor who oversees the municipalities. There is no single city council that singularly governs Baghdad at a municipal level. The governorate council is responsible for the governorate-wide policy.\n\nThese official subdivisions of the city served as administrative centres for the delivery of municipal services but until 2003 had no political function. Beginning in April 2003, the U.S. controlled Coalition Provisional Authority (CPA) began the process of creating new functions for these. The process initially focused on the election of neighbourhood councils in the official neighbourhoods, elected by neighbourhood caucuses.\n\nThe CPA convened a series of meetings in each neighbourhood to explain local government, to describe the caucus election process and to encourage participants to spread the word and bring friends, relatives and neighbours to subsequent meetings. Each neighbourhood process ultimately ended with a final meeting where candidates for the new neighbourhood councils identified themselves and asked their neighbours to vote for them.\n\nOnce all 88 (later increased to 89) neighbourhood councils were in place, each neighbourhood council elected representatives from among their members to serve on one of the city's nine district councils. The number of neighbourhood representatives on a district council is based upon the neighbourhood's population. The next step was to have each of the nine district councils elect representatives from their membership to serve on the 37 member Baghdad City Council. This three tier system of local government connected the people of Baghdad to the central government through their representatives from the neighbourhood, through the district, and up to the city council.\n\nThe same process was used to provide representative councils for the other communities in Baghdad Province outside of the city itself. There, local councils were elected from 20 neighbourhoods (Nahia) and these councils elected representatives from their members to serve on six district councils (Qada). As within the city, the district councils then elected representatives from among their members to serve on the 35 member Baghdad Regional Council.\n\nThe first step in the establishment of the system of local government for Baghdad Province was the election of the Baghdad Provincial Council. As before, the representatives to the Provincial Council were elected by their peers from the lower councils in numbers proportional to the population of the districts they represent. The 41 member Provincial Council took office in February 2004 and served until national elections held in January 2005, when a new Provincial Council was elected.\n\nThis system of 127 separate councils may seem overly cumbersome; however, Baghdad Province is home to approximately seven million people. At the lowest level, the neighbourhood councils, each council represents an average of 75,000 people.\n\nThe nine District Advisory Councils (DAC) are as follows:\n\n\nThe nine districts are subdivided into 89 smaller neighborhoods which may make up sectors of any of the districts above. The following is a \"selection\" (rather than a complete list) of these neighborhoods:\nThe city is located on a vast plain bisected by the Tigris river. The Tigris splits Baghdad in half, with the eastern half being called \"Risafa\" and the Western half known as \"Karkh\". The land on which the city is built is almost entirely flat and low-lying, being of alluvial origin due to the periodic large floods which have occurred on the river.\n\nBaghdad has a subtropical desert climate (Köppen climate classification \"BWh\"), featuring extremely hot, dry summers and mild, damp winters. In the summer, from June through August, the average maximum temperature is as high as , accompanied by blazing sunshine. Rainfall has, in fact, been recorded on fewer than half a dozen occasions at this time of year and has never exceeded . Even at night temperatures in summer are seldom below . Baghdad's record highest temperature of 124 degrees Fahrenheit (51 degrees Celsius) was reached in July 2015. The humidity is typically under 50% in summer due to Baghdad's distance from the marshy southern Iraq and the coasts of Persian Gulf, and dust storms from the deserts to the west are a normal occurrence during the summer.\n\nWinters boast temperatures typical of subtropical climates. From December through February, Baghdad has maximum temperatures averaging , though highs above are not unheard of. The average January low is , but lows below freezing occur a couple of times per year on average.\n\nAnnual rainfall, almost entirely confined to the period from November through March, averages approximately , but has been as high as and as low as . On 11 January 2008, light snow fell across Baghdad for the first time in memory.\n\nBaghdad's population was estimated at 7.22 million in 2015. The city historically had a predominantly Sunni population, but by the early 21st century around 82% of the city's population were Iraqi Shia. At the beginning of the 21st century, some 1.5 million people migrated to Baghdad, most of them Shiites and a few Sunnis.\n\nAs early as 2003, about 20 percent of the population of the city was the result of mixed marriages between Shi'ites and Sunnis: they are often referred to as \"Sushis\". Following the sectarian violence in Iraq between the Sunni and Shia militia groups during the U.S. occupation of Iraq, the city's population became overwhelmingly Shia. Despite the government's promise to resettle Sunnis displaced by the violence, little has been done to bring this about. The Iraqi Civil War following ISIS' invasion in 2014 caused hundreds of thousands of Iraqi internally displaced people to flee to the city. The city currently has Sunni, Shia, Assyrian/Chaldean/Syriacs, Armenians and mixed neighborhoods.\n\nBaghdad accounts for 22.2 per cent of Iraq's population and 40 per cent of the country's gross domestic product (PPP). Iraqi Airways, the national airline of Iraq, has its headquarters on the grounds of Baghdad International Airport in Baghdad. Al-Naser Airlines has its head office in Karrada, Baghdad.\n\nMost Iraqi reconstruction efforts have been devoted to the restoration and repair of badly damaged urban infrastructure. More visible efforts at reconstruction through private development, like architect and urban designer Hisham N. Ashkouri's Baghdad Renaissance Plan and the Sindbad Hotel Complex and Conference Center have also been made. A plan was proposed by a Government agency to rebuild a tourist island in 2008. In late 2009, a construction plan was proposed to rebuild the heart of Baghdad, but the plan was never realized because corruption was involved in it.\n\nThe Baghdad Eye, a tall Ferris wheel, was proposed for Baghdad in August 2008. At that time, three possible locations had been identified, but no estimates of cost or completion date were given.<ref name=\"msnbc.msn.com/id/26425911\"></ref> In October 2008, it was reported that Al-Zawraa Park was expected to be the site, and a wheel was installed there in March 2011.\n\nIraq's Tourism Board is also seeking investors to develop a \"romantic\" island on the River Tigris in Baghdad that was once a popular honeymoon spot for newlywed Iraqis. The project would include a six-star hotel, spa, an 18-hole golf course and a country club. In addition, the go-ahead has been given to build numerous architecturally unique skyscrapers along the Tigris that would develop the city's financial centre in Kadhehemiah.\n\nIn October 2008, the Baghdad Metro resumed service. It connects the center to the southern neighborhood of Dora.\nIn May 2010, a new residential and commercial project nicknamed Baghdad Gate was announced. This project not only addresses the urgent need for new residential units in Baghdad but also acts as a real symbol of progress in the war torn city, as Baghdad has not seen projects of this scale for decades.\n\n\n\nThe Mustansiriya Madrasah was established in 1227 by the Abbasid Caliph al-Mustansir. The name was changed to Al-Mustansiriya University in 1963. The University of Baghdad is the largest university in Iraq and the second largest in the Arab world.\n\nPrior to the Gulf War multiple international schools operated in Baghdad, including:\n\n\nBaghdad has always played a significant role in the broader Arab cultural sphere, contributing several significant writers, musicians and visual artists. Famous Arab poets and singers such as Nizar Qabbani, Umm Kulthum, Fairuz, Salah Al-Hamdani, Ilham al-Madfai and others have performed for the city.\n\nThe dialect of Arabic spoken in Baghdad today differs from that of other large urban centres in Iraq, having features more characteristic of nomadic Arabic dialects (Versteegh, \"The Arabic Language\"). It is possible that this was caused by the repopulating of the city with rural residents after the multiple sackings of the late Middle Ages.\n\nFor poetry written about Baghdad, see Reuven Snir (ed.), \"Baghdad: The City in Verse\" (Harvard, 2013)\n\nBaghdad joined the UNESCO Creative Cities Network as a City of Literature in December 2015.\n\nSome of the important cultural institutions in the city include the National Theater, which was looted during the 2003 invasion of Iraq, but efforts are underway to restore the theatre. The live theatre scene received a boost during the 1990s, when UN sanctions limited the import of foreign films. As many as 30 movie theatres were reported to have been converted to live stages, producing a wide range of comedies and dramatic productions.\n\nInstitutions offering cultural education in Baghdad include The Music and Ballet School of Baghdad and the Institute of Fine Arts Baghdad. The Iraqi National Symphony Orchestra is a government funded symphony orchestra in Baghdad. The INSO plays primarily classical European music, as well as original compositions based on Iraqi and Arab instruments and music. Baghdad is also home to a number of museums which housed artifacts and relics of ancient civilization; many of these were stolen, and the museums looted, during the widespread chaos immediately after United States forces entered the city. \n\nDuring the 2003 occupation of Iraq, AFN Iraq (\"Freedom Radio\") broadcast news and entertainment within Baghdad, among other locations. There is also a private radio station called \"Dijlah\" (named after the Arabic word for the Tigris River) that was created in 2004 as Iraq's first independent talk radio station. Radio Dijlah offices, in the Jamia neighborhood of Baghdad, have been attacked on several occasions.\n\nPriceless collection of artifacts in the National Museum of Iraq was looted during the 2003 US-led invasion. Thousands of ancient manuscripts in the National Library were destroyed under Saddam's command and because of neglect by the occupying coalition forces.\n\nBaghdad is home to some of the most successful football (soccer) teams in Iraq, the biggest being Al-Shorta (Police), Al-Quwa Al-Jawiya (Airforce club), Al-Zawra'a, and Talaba (Students). The largest stadium in Baghdad is Al-Shaab Stadium, which was opened in 1966. Another, but much larger stadium, is still in the opening stages of construction.\n\nThe city has also had a strong tradition of horse racing ever since World War I, known to Baghdadis simply as 'Races'. There are reports of pressures by the Islamists to stop this tradition due to the associated gambling.\n\n\n\n\n\nBooks:\n\n"}
{"id": "48516637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48516637", "title": "Baguette (bag)", "text": "Baguette (bag)\n\nThe baguette is a small, compact handbag designed by Fendi in 1997. Made popular by its exposure on Sex and the City, the designer handbag was very popular in the late 1990s and early 2000s, often cited as the first \"It\" bag.\n\nThe Baguette concept was for a small, streamlined bag, carried on a short strap, that could be adapted for different looks, colors and textures while still having a consistent aesthetic. It marked a contrast from many popular women's purses at the time, which were often large totes.\n\nStill relatively small and little-known, the Fendi Italian fashion brand agreed to lend the Baguette to HBO's \"Sex and the City\", which was still a relatively new show that was fast growing in popularity. Sarah Jessica Parker has credited Fendi's loan of the bag with being central in establishing the show and her character Carrie Bradshaw, saying \"Having Carrie wear the Baguette was a defining moment for us, and marked the beginning of everything. The timing was perfect for the story we were telling and the character I was playing; the Baguette was the perfect embellishment. Once Fendi loaned us items, everyone was more willing to do so, which helped us dramatically in conveying Carrie’s decadence.\"\n\nWhile the bag was already growing in popularity, its prominence on the show led to the bag's extreme popularity, as well as helping to establish SATC as a fashion-oriented show.\n"}
{"id": "19167840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19167840", "title": "Chronology of the universe", "text": "Chronology of the universe\n\nThe chronology of the universe describes the history and future of the universe according to Big Bang cosmology. The earliest stages of the universe's existence are estimated as taking place 13.8 billion years ago, with an uncertainty of around 21 million years at the 68% confidence level.\n\nFor the purposes of this summary, it is convenient to divide the chronology of the universe since it originated, into five parts. It is generally considered meaningless or unclear whether time existed before this chronology:\n\nEarliest stages of chronology shown below (before neutrino decoupling) are an active area of research and based on ideas which are still speculative and subject to modification as scientific knowledge improves.\n\n\"Time\" column is based on extrapolation of observed metric expansion of space back in the past. For the earliest stages of chronology this extrapolation may be invalid. To give one example, eternal inflation theories propose that inflation lasts forever throughout most of the universe, making the notion of \"N seconds since Big Bang\" ill-defined.\n\nThe radiation temperature refers to the cosmic background radiation and is given by 2.725·(1+\"z\"), where \"z\" is the redshift.\n\nThe Planck epoch is an era in traditional (non-inflationary) Big Bang cosmology immediately after the event which began our known universe. During this epoch, the temperature and average energies within the universe were so inconceivably high compared to any temperature we can observe today, that everyday subatomic particles could not form, and even the four fundamental forces that shape our universe—electromagnetism, gravitation, weak nuclear interaction, and strong nuclear interaction—were combined and formed one fundamental force. Little is understood about physics at this temperature; different hypotheses propose different scenarios. Traditional big bang cosmology predicts a gravitational singularity before this time, but this theory relies on the theory of general relativity, which is thought to break down for this epoch due to quantum effects.\n\nIn inflationary models of cosmology, times before the end of inflation (roughly 10 second after the Big Bang) do not follow the same timeline as in traditional big bang cosmology. Models that aim to describe the universe and physics during the Planck epoch are generally speculative and fall under the umbrella of \"New Physics\". Examples include the Hartle–Hawking initial state, string landscape, string gas cosmology, and the ekpyrotic universe.\n\nAs the universe expanded and cooled, it crossed transition temperatures at which forces separated from each other. These phase transitions can be visualised as similar to condensation and freezing phase transitions of ordinary matter. At certain temperatures/energies, water molecules change their behaviour and structure, and they will behave completely differently. Like steam turning to water, the fields which define our universe's fundamental forces and particles also completely change their behaviors and structures when the temperature/energy falls below a certain point. This is not apparent in everyday life, because it only happens at much, much, higher temperatures than we usually see in our present universe.\n\nThese phase transitions are believed to be caused by a phenomenon of quantum fields called \"symmetry breaking\".\n\nIn everyday terms, as the universe cools, it becomes possible for the quantum fields that create the forces and particles around us, to settle at lower energy levels and with higher levels of stability. In doing so, they completely shift how they interact. Forces and interactions arise due to these fields, so the universe can behave very differently above and below a phase transition. For example, in a later epoch, a side effect of one phase transition is that suddenly, many particles that had no mass at all acquire a mass (they begin to interact with the Higgs boson), and a single force begins to manifest as two separate forces.\n\nThe grand unification epoch began with a phase transitions of this kind, when gravitation separated from the universal combined gauge force. This caused two forces to now exist: gravity, and an electrostrong interaction. There is no hard evidence yet, that such a combined force existed, but many physicists believe it did. The physics of this electrostrong interaction would be described by a so-called grand unified theory (GUT).\n\nThe grand unification epoch ended with a second phase transition, as the electrostrong interaction in turn separated, and began to manifest as two separate interactions, called the strong and electroweak interactions.\n\nDepending on how epochs are defined, and the model being followed, the electroweak epoch may be considered to start before or after the inflationary epoch. In some models it is described as including the inflationary epoch. In other models, the electroweak epoch is said to begin after the inflationary epoch ended, at roughly 10 seconds.\n\nAccording to traditional big bang cosmology, the electroweak epoch began 10 seconds after the Big Bang, when the temperature of the universe was low enough (10 K) for the Electronuclear Force to begin to manifest as two separate interactions, called the strong and the electroweak interactions. (The electroweak interaction will also separate later, dividing into the electromagnetic and weak interactions). The exact point where electrostrong symmetry was broken is not certain, because of the very high energies of this event.\n\nAt this point, the very early universe suddenly and very rapidly expanded to at least 10 times its previous volume (and possibly much more). This is equivalent to a linear increase of at least 10 times in every spatial dimension – equivalent to an object 1 nanometer (10 m, about half the width of a molecule of DNA) in length, expanding to one approximately 10.6 light years (about 62 trillion miles) long in a tiny fraction of a second. This change is known as inflation.\n\nAlthough light and objects within spacetime cannot travel faster than the speed of light, in this case it was the metric governing the size and geometry of spacetime itself that changed in scale. Changes to the metric are not limited by the speed of light.\n\nIn some models, it is thought to have been triggered by the separation of the strong and electroweak interactions which ended the grand unification epoch. One of the theoretical products of this phase transition was a scalar field called the inflaton field. As this field settled into its lowest energy state throughout the universe, it generated an enormous repulsive force that led to a rapid expansion of space itself. Inflation explains several observed properties of the current universe that are otherwise difficult to account for, including explaining how today's universe has ended up so exceedingly homogeneous (similar) on a very large scale, even though it was highly disordered in its earliest stages.\n\nIt is not known exactly when the inflationary epoch ended, but it is thought to have been between 10 and 10 seconds after the Big Bang. The rapid expansion of space meant that elementary particles remaining from the grand unification epoch were now distributed very thinly across the universe. However, the huge potential energy of the inflation field was released at the end of the inflationary epoch, as the inflaton field decayed into other particles, known as \"reheating\". This heating effect led to the universe being repopulated with a dense, hot mixture of quarks, anti-quarks and gluons. In other models, reheating is often considered to mark the start of the electroweak epoch, and some theories, such as warm inflation, avoid a reheating phase entirely.\n\nIn non-traditional versions of Big Bang theory (known as \"inflationary\" models), inflation ended at a temperature corresponding to roughly 10 second after the Big Bang, but this does \"not\" imply that the inflationary era lasted less than 10 second. To explain the observed homogeneity of the universe, the duration in these models must be longer than 10 second. Therefore, in inflationary cosmology, the earliest meaningful time \"after the Big Bang\" is the time of the \"end\" of inflation. \n\nAfter inflation ended, the universe continued to expand, but at a very slow rate. The slow expansion began to speed up after several billion years, believed to be due to dark energy, and is still expanding today.\n\nOn March 17, 2014, astrophysicists of the BICEP2 collaboration announced the detection of inflationary gravitational waves in the B-mode power spectrum which was interpreted as clear experimental evidence for the theory of inflation. However, on June 19, 2014, lowered confidence in confirming the cosmic inflation findings was reported and finally, on February 2, 2015, a joint analysis of data from BICEP2/Keck and Planck satellite concluded that the statistical \"significance [of the data] is too low to be interpreted as a detection of primordial B-modes\" and can be attributed mainly to polarized dust in the Milky Way.\n\nAs the universe's temperature continued to fall below a certain very high energy level, a third symmetry breaking occurs. So far as we currently know, it was the final symmetry breaking event in the formation of our universe. It is believed that below some energies unknown yet, the Higgs field spontaneously acquires a vacuum expectation value. When this happens, it breaks electroweak gauge symmetry. This has two related effects:\n\n\nAfter electroweak symmetry breaking, the fundamental interactions we know of – gravitation, electromagnetism, the strong interaction and the weak interaction – have all taken their present forms, and fundamental particles have mass, but the temperature of the universe is still too high to allow the formation of many fundamental particles we now see in the universe.\n\nIf supersymmetry is a property of our universe, then it must be broken at an energy that is no lower than 1 TeV, the electroweak scale. The masses of particles and their superpartners would then no longer be equal. This very high energy could explain why no superpartners of known particles have ever been observed.\n\nAfter cosmic inflation ends, the universe is filled with a hot quark–gluon plasma, the remains of reheating. From this point onwards the physics of the early universe is much better understood, and the energies involved in the Quark epoch are directly amenable to experiment.\n\nThe quark epoch began approximately 10 seconds after the Big Bang. This was the period in the evolution of the early universe immediately after electroweak symmetry breaking, when the fundamental interactions of gravitation, electromagnetism, the strong interaction and the weak interaction had taken their present forms, but the temperature of the universe was still too high to allow quarks to bind together to form hadrons.\n\nDuring the quark epoch the universe was filled with a dense, hot quark–gluon plasma, containing quarks, leptons and their antiparticles. Collisions between particles were too energetic to allow quarks to combine into mesons or baryons.\n\nThe quark epoch ended when the universe was about 10 seconds old, when the average energy of particle interactions had fallen below the binding energy of hadrons.\n\n\"Perhaps by 10 seconds.\"\n\nBaryons are subatomic particles such as protons and neutrons, that are composed of three quarks. It would be expected that both baryons, and particles known as antibaryons would have formed in equal numbers. However, this does not seem to be what happened – as far as we know, the universe was left with far more baryons than antibaryons. In fact, almost no antibaryons are observed in nature. It is not clear how this came about. Any explanation for this phenomenon must allow the Sakharov conditions related to baryogenesis to have been satisfied at some time after the end of cosmological inflation. Current particle physics suggests asymmetries under which these conditions would be met, but these asymmetries appear to be too small to account for the observed baryon-antibaryon asymmetry of the universe.\n\nThe quark–gluon plasma that composes the universe cools until hadrons, including baryons such as protons and neutrons, can form.\nInitially, hadron/anti-hadron pairs could form, so matter and anti-matter were in thermal equilibrium. However, as the temperature of the universe continued to fall, new hadron/anti-hadron pairs were no longer produced, and most of the newly formed hadrons and anti-hadrons annihilated each other, giving rise to pairs of high-energy photons. A comparatively small residue of hadrons remained at about 1 second of cosmic time, when this epoch ended. \n\nTheory predicts that about 1 neutron remained for every 7 protons. We believe this to be correct because, at a later stage, all the neutrons and some of the protons fused, leaving hydrogen, a hydrogen isotope called deuterium, helium and other elements, which we can measure. A 1:7 ratio of hadrons at the end of this epoch would indeed produce the observed element ratios in the early as well as current universe.\n\nAt approximately 1 second after the Big Bang neutrinos decouple and begin traveling freely through space. As neutrinos rarely interact with matter, these neutrinos still exist today, analogous to the much later cosmic microwave background emitted during recombination, around 377,000 years after the Big Bang. The neutrinos from this event have a very low energy, around 10 times smaller than is possible with present-day direct detection. Even high energy neutrinos are notoriously difficult to detect, so this cosmic neutrino background (CNB) may not be directly observed in detail for many years, if at all.\n\nHowever, Big Bang cosmology makes many predictions about the CNB, and there is very strong indirect evidence that the cosmic neutrino background exists, both from Big Bang nucleosynthesis predictions of the helium abundance, and from anisotropies in the cosmic microwave background. One of these predictions is that neutrinos will have left a subtle imprint on the cosmic microwave background (CMB). It is well known that the CMB has irregularities. Some of the CMB fluctuations were roughly regularly spaced, because of the effect of baryonic acoustic oscillations. In theory, the decoupled neutrinos should have had a very slight effect on the phase of the various CMB fluctuations.\n\nIn 2015, it was reported that such shifts had been detected in the CMB. Moreover, the fluctuations corresponded to neutrinos of almost exactly the temperature predicted by Big Bang theory ( compared to a prediction of 1.95K), and exactly three types of neutrino, the same number of neutrino flavours currently predicted by the Standard Model.\n\nPrimordial black holes are a hypothetical type of black hole proposed in 1966, that may have formed during the so-called \"radiation dominated era\", due to the high densities and inhomogeneous conditions within the first second of cosmic time. Random fluctuations could lead to some regions becoming dense enough to undergo gravitational collapse, forming black holes. Current understandings and theories place tight limits on the abundance and mass of these objects.\n\nTypically, primordial black hole formation requires density contrasts (regional variations in the Universe's density) of around formula_1 (10%), where formula_2 is the average density of the Universe. Several mechanisms could produce dense regions meeting this criterion during the early universe, including reheating, cosmological phase transitions and (in so-called \"hybrid inflation models\") axion inflation. Since primordial black holes didn't form from stellar gravitational collapse, their masses can be far below stellar mass (~2×10 g). Stephen Hawking calculated in 1971 that primordial black holes could weigh as little as 10 g. But they can have any size, so they could also be large, and may have contributed to the formation of galaxies.\n\nThe majority of hadrons and anti-hadrons annihilate each other at the end of the hadron epoch, leaving leptons (such as the electron, muons and certain neutrinos) and anti-leptons, dominating the mass of the universe. \n\nThe lepton epoch follows a similar path to the earlier hadron epoch. Initially leptons and anti-leptons are produced in pairs. About 10 seconds after the Big Bang the temperature of the universe falls to the point at which new lepton/anti-lepton pairs are no longer created and most remaining leptons and anti-leptons quickly annihilate each other, giving rise to pairs of high energy photons, and leaving a small residue of non-annihilated leptons.\n\nAfter most leptons and anti-leptons are annihilated at the end of the lepton epoch, most of the mass-energy in the universe is left in the form of photons. (Much of the rest of its mass-energy is in the form of neutrinos and other relativistic particles). Therefore the energy of the universe, and its overall behavior, is dominated by its photons. These photons continue to interact frequently with charged protons, electrons and (eventually) nuclei. They continue to do so for about the next 377,000 years.\n\nBetween about 2 and 20 minutes after the Big Bang, the temperature and pressure of the universe allow nuclear fusion to occur, giving rise to nuclei of a few light elements beyond hydrogen (\"Big Bang nucleosynthesis\"). About 25% of the protons, and all the neutrons fuse to form deuterium, a hydrogen isotope, and most of the deuterium quickly fuses to form helium-4. \n\nAtomic nuclei will easily unbind (break apart) above a certain temperature, related to their binding energy. From about 2 minutes, the falling temperature means that deuterium no longer unbinds, and is stable, and starting from about 3 minutes, helium and other elements formed by the fusion of deuterium also no longer unbind and are stable.\n\nThe short duration and falling temperature means that only the simplest and fastest fusion processes can occur. Only tiny amounts of nuclei beyond helium are formed, because nucleosynthesis of heavier elements is difficult and requires thousands of years even in stars. Small amounts of tritium (another hydrogen isotope) and beryllium-7 and -8 are formed, but these are unstable and are quickly lost again. A small amount of deuterium is left unfused because of the very short duration.\n\nTherefore, the only stable nuclides created by the end of Big Bang nucleosynthesis are protium (single proton/hydrogen nucleus), deuterium, helium-3, helium-4, and lithium-7. By mass, the resulting matter is about 75% hydrogen nuclei, 25% helium nuclei, and perhaps 10 by mass of Lithium-7. The next most common stable isotopes produced are lithium-6, beryllium-9, boron-11, carbon, nitrogen and oxygen (\"CNO\"), but these have predicted abundances of between 5 and 30 parts in 10 by mass, making them essentially undetectable and negligible.\n\nThe amounts of each light element in the early universe can be estimated from old galaxies, and is strong evidence for the Big Bang. For example, the Big Bang should produce about 1 neutron for every 7 protons, allowing for 25% of all nucleons to be fused into helium-4 (2 protons and 2 neutrons out of every 16 nucleons), and this is the amount we find today, and far more than can be easily explained by other processes. Similarly, deuterium fuses extremely easily; any alternative explanation must also explain how conditions existed for deuterium to form, but also left some of that deuterium unfused and not immediately fused again into helium. Any alternative must also explain the proportions of the various light elements and their isotopes. A few isotopes, such as lithium-7, were found to be present in amounts that differed from theory, but over time, these differences have been resolved by better observations.\n\nUntil now, the universe's large scale dynamics and behavior have been determined mainly by radiation – meaning, those constituents that move relativistically (at or near the speed of light), such as photons and neutrinos. As the universe cools, from around 47,000 years (z=3600), the universe's large scale behavior becomes dominated by matter instead. This occurs because the energy density of matter begins to exceed both the energy density of radiation and the vacuum energy density. Around or shortly after this time, the densities of non-relativistic matter (atomic nuclei) and relativistic radiation (photons) become equal, the Jeans length, which determines the smallest structures that can form (due to competition between gravitational attraction and pressure effects), begins to fall and perturbations, instead of being wiped out by free-streaming radiation, can begin to grow in amplitude.\n\nAccording to the Lambda-CDM model, by this stage, the matter in the universe is around 84.5% cold dark matter and 15.5% \"ordinary\" matter. (However the total matter in the universe is only 31.7%, much smaller than the 68.3% of dark energy). There is overwhelming evidence that dark matter exists and dominates our universe, but since the exact nature of dark matter is still not understood, Big Bang theory does not presently cover any stages in its formation.\n\nFrom this point on, and for several billion years to come, the presence of dark matter accelerates the formation of structure in our universe. In the early universe, dark matter gradually gathers in huge filaments under the effects of gravity. This amplifies the tiny inhomogeneities (irregularities) in the density of the universe which was left by cosmic inflation. Over time, slightly denser regions become denser and slightly rarefied (emptier) regions become more rarefied. Ordinary matter eventually gathers together faster than it would otherwise do, because of the presence of these concentrations of dark matter.\n\nAbout 377,000 years after the Big Bang, two connected events occurred: recombination and photon decoupling. Recombination describes the ionized particles combining to form the first neutral atoms, and decoupling refers to the photons released (\"decoupled\") as the newly formed atoms settle into more stable energy states.\n\nJust before recombination, the baryonic matter in the universe was at a temperature where it formed a hot ionized plasma. Most of the photons in the universe interacted with electrons and protons, and could not travel significant distances without interacting with ionized particles. As a result, the universe was opaque or \"foggy\". Although there was light, it was not possible to see, nor can we observe that light through telescopes.\n\nAt around 377,000 years, the universe has cooled to a point where free electrons can combine with the hydrogen and helium nuclei to form neutral atoms. This process is relatively fast (and faster for the helium than for the hydrogen), and is known as recombination. The name is slightly inaccurate and is given for historical reasons: in fact the electrons and atomic nuclei were combining for the first time.\n\nDirectly combining in a low energy state (ground state) is less efficient, so these hydrogen atoms generally form with the electrons still in a high energy state, and once combined, the electrons quickly release energy in the form of one or more photons as they transition to a low energy state. This release of photons is known as photon decoupling. Some of these decoupled photons are captured by other hydrogen atoms, the remainder remain free. By the end of recombination, most of the protons in the universe have formed neutral atoms. This change from charged to neutral particles means that the mean free path photons can travel before capture in effect becomes infinite, so any decoupled photons that have not been captured can travel freely over long distances (see Thomson scattering). The universe has become transparent to visible light, radio waves and other electromagnetic radiation for the first time in its history.\nThe photons released by these newly formed hydrogen atoms initially had a temperature/energy of around ~ 4000 K. This would have been visible to the eye as a pale yellow/orange tinted, or \"soft\", white color. Over billions of years since decoupling, as the universe has expanded, the photons have been red-shifted from visible light to radio waves (microwave radiation corresponding to a temperature of about 2.7 K). Red shifting describes the photons acquiring longer wavelengths and lower frequencies as the universe expanded over billions of years, so that they gradually changed from visible light to radio waves. These same photons can still be detected as radio waves today. They form the cosmic microwave background (\"CMB\"), and they provide crucial evidence of the early universe and how it developed.\n\nAround the same time as recombination, existing pressure waves within the electron-baryon plasma – known as baryon acoustic oscillations – became embedded in the distribution of matter as it condensed, giving rise to a very slight preference in distribution of large-scale objects. Therefore, the cosmic microwave background is a picture of the universe at the end of this epoch including the tiny fluctuations generated during inflation (see diagram), and the spread of objects such as galaxies in the universe is an indication of the scale and size of the universe as it developed over time.\n\nAfter recombination and decoupling, the universe was transparent and had cooled enough to allow light to travel long distances, but there were no light-producing structures such as stars and galaxies. Stars and galaxies are formed when dense regions of gas form due to the action of gravity, and this takes a long time within a near-uniform density of gas and on the scale required, so it is estimated that stars did not exist for perhaps hundreds of millions of years after recombination.\n\nThis period, known as the Dark Ages, began around 377,000 years after the Big Bang. During the Dark Ages, the temperature of the universe cooled from some 4000 K down to about 60 K, and only two sources of photons existed: the photons released during recombination/decoupling (as neutral hydrogen atoms formed), which we can still detect today as the cosmic microwave background (CMB), and photons occasionally released by neutral hydrogen atoms, known as the 21 cm spin line of neutral hydrogen. The hydrogen spin line is in the microwave range of frequencies, and within 3 million years, the CMB photons had redshifted out of visible light to infrared; from that time until the first stars, there were no visible light photons. Other than perhaps some rare statistical anomalies, the universe was truly dark.\n\nThe October 2010 discovery of UDFy-38135539, the first observed galaxy to have existed during the following reionization epoch, gives us a window into these times. The galaxy earliest in this period observed and thus also the most distant galaxy ever observed is currently on the record of Leiden University's Richard J. Bouwens and Garth D. Illingsworth from UC Observatories/Lick Observatory. They found the galaxy UDFj-39546284 to be at a time some 480 million years after the Big Bang or about halfway through the Cosmic Dark Ages at a distance of about 13.2 billion light-years. More recently, the UDFy-38135539, EGSY8p7 and GN-z11 galaxies were found to be around 380–550 million years after the Big Bang and at a distance of around 13.4 billion light-years. There is also currently an observational effort underway to detect the faint 21 cm spin line radiation, as it is in principle an even more powerful tool than the cosmic microwave background for studying the early universe.\n\nStructures may have begun to emerge from around 150 million years, and stars and early galaxies gradually emerged from around 400 to 700 million years. As they emerged, the Dark Ages gradually ended. Because this process was gradual, the Dark Ages only fully ended around 1 billion (1000 million) years, as the universe took its present appearance.\n\nFor about 6.6 million years, between about 10 to 17 million years after the Big Bang (redshift 137–100), the background temperature was between 373 K and 273 K, a temperature compatible with liquid water and common biological chemical reactions. Loeb (2014) speculated that primitive life might in principle have appeared during this window, which he called \"the Habitable Epoch of the Early Universe\". Loeb argues that carbon-based life might have evolved in a hypothetical pocket of the early universe that was dense enough both to generate at least one massive star that subsequently releases carbon in a supernova, and that was also dense enough to generate a planet. (Such dense pockets, if they existed, would have been extremely rare.) Life would also have required a heat differential, rather than just uniform background radiation; this could be provided by naturally-occurring geothermal energy. Such life would likely have remained primitive; it is highly unlikely that intelligent life would have had sufficient time to evolve before the hypothetical oceans freeze over at the end of the habitable epoch.\n\nThe matter in the universe is around 84.5% cold dark matter and 15.5% \"ordinary\" matter. Since the start of the matter-dominated era, the dark matter has gradually been gathering in huge spread out (diffuse) filaments under the effects of gravity. Ordinary matter eventually gathers together faster than it would otherwise do, because of the presence of these concentrations of dark matter. It is also slightly more dense at regular distances due to early baryon acoustic oscillations (BAO) which became embedded into the distribution of matter when photons decoupled. Unlike dark matter, ordinary matter can lose energy by many routes, which means that as it collapses, it can lose the energy which would otherwise hold it apart, and collapse more quickly, and into denser forms. Ordinary matter gathers where dark matter is denser, and in those places it collapses into clouds of mainly hydrogen gas. The first stars and galaxies form from these clouds. Where numerous galaxies have formed, galaxy clusters and superclusters will eventually arise. Large voids with few stars will develop between them, marking where dark matter became less common.\n\nStructure formation in the big bang model proceeds hierarchically, due to gravitational collapse, with smaller structures forming before larger ones. The earliest structures to form are the first stars (known as population III stars), dwarf galaxies, and quasars (which are thought to be bright, early active galaxies containing a supermassive black hole surrounded by a inward-spiralling accretion disk of gas). Before this epoch, the evolution of the universe could be understood through linear cosmological perturbation theory: that is, all structures could be understood as small deviations from a perfect homogeneous universe. This is computationally relatively easy to study. At this point non-linear structures begin to form, and the computational problem becomes much more difficult, involving, for example, \"N\"-body simulations with billions of particles. The Bolshoi Cosmological Simulation is a high precision simulation of this era.\n\nThese Population III stars are also responsible for turning the few light elements that were formed in the Big Bang (hydrogen, helium and small amounts of lithium) into many heavier elements. They can be huge as well as perhaps small – and non-metallic (no elements except hydrogen and helium). The larger stars have very short lifetimes compared to most Main Sequence stars we see today, so they commonly finish burning their hydrogen fuel and explode as supernovae after mere millions of years, seeding the universe with heavier elements over repeated generations. They mark the start of the Stelliferous (starry) era.\n\nAs yet, no Population III stars have been found, so our understanding of them is based on computational models of their formation and evolution. Fortunately, observations of the Cosmic Microwave Background radiation can be used to date when star formation began in earnest. Analysis of such observations made by the European Space Agency's Planck telescope in 2016 concluded that the first generation of stars formed 700 million years after the Big Bang.\n\nQuasars provides some additional evidence of early structure formation. Their light shows evidence of elements such as carbon, magnesium, iron and oxygen. This is evidence that by the time quasars formed, a massive phase of star formation had already taken place, including sufficient generations of population III stars to give rise to these elements.\n\nAs the first stars, dwarf galaxies and quasars gradually form, the intense radiation they emit reionizes much of the surrounding universe; splitting the neutral hydrogen atoms back into a plasma of free electrons and protons for the first time since recombination and decoupling.\n\nReionization is evidenced from observations of quasars. Quasars are a form of active galaxy, and the most luminous objects observed in the universe. Electrons in neutral hydrogen have a specific patterns of absorbing photons, related to electron energy levels and called the Lyman series. Ionized hydrogen does not have electron energy levels of this kind. Therefore, light travelling through ionized hydrogen and neutral hydrogen shows different absorption lines. In addition, the light will have travelled for billions of years to reach us, so any absorption by neutral hydrogen will have been redshifted by varied amounts, rather than by one specific amount, indicating when it happened. These features make it possible to study the state of ionization at many different times in the past. They show that reionization began as \"bubbles\" of ionized hydrogen which became larger over time. They also show that the absorption was due to the general state of the universe (the intergalactic medium) and not due to passing through galaxies or other dense areas. Reionization might have started as early as \"z\"=16 (250 million years of cosmic time) and was complete by around \"z\"=9 or 10 (500 million years). The epoch of reionization probably ended by around \"z\"=5 or 6 (1 billion years) as the era of Population III stars and quasars – and their intense radiation – came to an end, and the ionized hydrogen gradually reverted to neutral atoms.\n\nThese observations have narrowed down the period of time during which reionization took place, but the source of the photons that caused reionization is still not completely certain. To ionize neutral hydrogen, an energy larger than 13.6 eV is required, which corresponds to ultraviolet photons with a wavelength of 91.2 nm or shorter, implying that the sources must have produced significant amount of ultraviolet and higher energy. Protons and electrons will recombine if energy is not continuously provided to keep them apart, which also sets limits on how numerous the sources were and their longevity. With these constraints, it is expected that quasars and first generation stars and galaxies were the main sources of energy. The current leading candidates from most to least significant are currently believed to be population III stars (the earliest stars) (possibly 70%), dwarf galaxies (very early small high-energy galaxies) (possibly 30%), and a contribution from quasars (a class of active galactic nuclei).\n\nHowever, by this time, matter had become far more spread out due to the ongoing expansion of the universe. Although the neutral hydrogen atoms were again ionized, the plasma was much more thin and diffuse, and photons were much less likely to be scattered. Despite being reionized, the universe remained largely transparent during reionization. As the universe continued to cool and expand, reionization gradually ended.\n\nMatter continues to draw together under the influence of gravity, to form galaxies. The stars from this time period, known as Population II stars, are formed early on in this process, with more recent Population I stars formed later. Gravitational attraction also gradually pulls galaxies towards each other to form groups, clusters and superclusters. The Hubble Ultra Deep Field observatory has identified a number of small galaxies merging to form larger ones, at 800 million years of cosmic time (13 billion years ago) (this age estimate is now believed to be slightly overstated).\n\nJohannes Schedler's project has identified a quasar CFHQS 1641+3755 at 12.7 billion light-years away, when the universe was just 7% of its present age. On July 11, 2007, using the 10-metre Keck II telescope on Mauna Kea, Richard Ellis of the California Institute of Technology at Pasadena and his team found six star forming galaxies about 13.2 billion light years away and therefore created when the universe was only 500 million years old. Only about 10 of these extremely early objects are currently known. More recent observations have shown these ages to be shorter than previously indicated. The most distant galaxy observed as of October 2016, GN-z11, has been reported to be 32 billion light years away, a vast distance made possible through space-time expansion (redshift z=11.1; comoving distance of 32 billion light-years; lookback time of 13.4 billion years).\n\nThe universe has appeared much the same as it does now, for many billions of years. It will continue to look similar for many more billions of years into the future.\n\nBased upon the emerging science of nucleocosmochronology, the Galactic thin disk of the Milky Way is estimated to have been formed 8.8 ± 1.7 billion years ago.\n\nFrom about 9.8 billion years of cosmic time, the universe's large-scale behavior is believed to have gradually changed for the third time in its history. Its behavior had originally been dominated by radiation (relativistic constituents such as photons and neutrinos) for the first 47,000 years, and since about 377,000 years of cosmic time, its behavior had been dominated by matter. During its matter-dominated era, the expansion of the universe had begun to slow down, as gravity reigned in the initial outward expansion. But from about 9.8 billion years of cosmic time, observations show that that the expansion of the universe slowly stops decelerating, and gradually begins to accelerate again, instead. \n\nWhile the precise cause is not known, the observation is accepted as correct by the cosmologist community. By far the most accepted understanding is that this is due to an unknown form of energy which has been given the name \"dark energy\". \"Dark\" in this context means that it is not directly observed, but can currently only be studied by examining the effect it has on the universe. Research is ongoing to understand this dark energy. Dark energy is now believed to be the single largest component of the universe, as it constitutes about 68.3% of the entire mass-energy of the physical universe.\n\nDark energy is believed to act like a cosmological constant - a scalar field that exists throughout space. Unlike gravity, the effects of such a field do not diminish (or only diminish slowly) as the universe grows. While matter and gravity have a greater effect initially, their effect quickly diminishes as the universe continues to expand. Objects in the universe, which are initially seen to be moving apart as the universe expands, continue to move apart, but their outward motion gradually slows down. This slowing effect becomes smaller as the universe becomes more spread out. Eventually, the outward and repulsive effect of dark energy begins to dominate over the inward pull of gravity. Instead of slowing down and perhaps beginning to move inward under the influence of gravity, from about 9.8 billion years of cosmic time, the expansion of space starts to slowly accelerate \"outward\" at a gradually \"increasing\" rate.\n\nThe universe has existed for around 13.8 billion years, and we believe that we understand it well enough to predict its large-scale development for many billions of years into the future – perhaps as much as 100 billion years of cosmic time (about 86 billion years from now). Beyond that, we need to better understand the universe to make any accurate predictions. Therefore, the universe could follow a variety of different paths beyond this time.\n\nThere are several competing scenarios for the possible long-term evolution of the universe. Which of them will happen, if any, depends on the precise values of physical constants such as the cosmological constant, the possibility of proton decay, the energy of the vacuum (meaning, the energy of \"empty\" space itself), and the natural laws beyond the Standard Model.\nIf the expansion of the universe continues and it stays in its present form, eventually all but the nearest galaxies will be carried away from us by the expansion of space at such a velocity that our observable universe will be limited to our own gravitationally bound local galactic cluster. In the very long term (after many trillions – thousands of billions – of years, cosmic time), the Stelliferous Era will end, as stars cease to be born and even the longest-lived stars gradually die. Beyond this, all objects in the universe will cool and (with the possible exception of protons) gradually decompose back to their constituent particles and then into subatomic particles and very low level photons and other fundamental particles, by a variety of possible processes. But this will take a duration of time that is almost inconceivable to most people, compared to which the entire 13.8 billion years of the universe would be a tiny instant in time.\n\nUltimately, in the extreme future, the following scenarios have been proposed for the ultimate fate of the universe.\n\nIn this kind of extreme timescale, extremely rare quantum phenomena may also occur that are extremely unlikely to be seen on a timescale smaller than trillions of years. These may also lead to unpredictable changes to the state of the universe which would not be likely to be significant on any smaller timescale. For example, on a timescale of millions of trillions of years, black holes might appear to evaporate almost instantly, uncommon quantum tunneling phenomena would appear to be common, and quantum (or other) phenomena so unlikely that they might occur just once in a trillion years may occur many times.\n\n"}
{"id": "7378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7378", "title": "Comparative law", "text": "Comparative law\n\nComparative law is the study of differences and similarities between the law (legal systems) of different countries. More specifically, it involves the study of the different legal \"systems\" (or \"families\") in existence in the world, including the common law, the civil law, socialist law, Canon law, Jewish Law, Islamic law, Hindu law, and Chinese law. It includes the description and analysis of foreign legal systems, even where no explicit comparison is undertaken. The importance of comparative law has increased enormously in the present age of internationalism, economic globalization, and democratization.\n\nThe origins of modern Comparative Law can be traced back to Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz in 1667 in his Latin-language book Nova Methodus Discendae Docendaeque Iurisprudentiae (New Methods of Studying and Teaching Jurisprudence). Chapter 7 (Presentation of Law as the Project for all Nations, Lands and Times) introduces the idea of classifying Legal Systems into several families. Notably, a few years earlier, Leibnitz introduced an idea of Language families.\n\nAlthough every Legal System is unique, Comparative Law through studies of their similarities and differences allows for classification of Legal Systems, wherein Law Families is the basic level of the classification. The main differences between Law Families are found in the source(s) of Law, the role of court precedents, the origin and development of the Legal System. Montesquieu is generally regarded as an early founding figure of comparative law. His comparative approach is obvious in the following excerpt from Chapter III of Book I of his masterpiece, \"De l'esprit des lois\" (1748; first translated by Thomas Nugent, 1750):\n\nAlso, in Chapter XI (entitled 'How to compare two different Systems of Laws') of Book XXIX, discussing the French and English systems for punishment of false witnesses, he advises that \"to determine which of those systems is most agreeable to reason, we must take them each as a whole and compare them in their entirety.\" Yet another place where Montesquieu's comparative approach is evident is the following, from Chapter XIII of Book XXIX:\n\nThe modern founding figure of comparative and anthropological jurisprudence was Sir Henry Maine, a British jurist and legal historian. In his 1861 work \"Ancient Law: Its Connection with the Early History of Society, and Its Relation to Modern Ideas\", he set out his views on the development of legal institutions in primitive societies and engaged in a comparative discussion of Eastern and Western legal traditions. This work placed comparative law in its historical context and was widely read and influential.\n\nThe first university course on the subject was established at the University of Oxford in 1869, with Maine taking up the position of professor.\n\nComparative law in the US was brought by a legal scholar fleeing persecution in Germany, Rudolf Schlesinger. Schlesinger eventually became professor of comparative law at Cornell Law School helping to spread the discipline throughout the US.\n\nComparative law is an academic discipline that involves the study of legal systems, including their constitutive elements and how they differ, and how their elements combine into a system.\n\nSeveral disciplines have developed as separate branches of comparative law, including comparative constitutional law, comparative administrative law, comparative civil law (in the sense of the law of torts, delicts, contracts and obligations), comparative commercial law (in the sense of business organisations and trade), and comparative criminal law. Studies of these specific areas may be viewed as micro- or macro-comparative legal analysis, i.e. detailed comparisons of two countries, or broad-ranging studies of several countries. Comparative civil law studies, for instance, show how the law of private relations is organised, interpreted and used in different systems or countries. The purposes of comparative law are:\n\nComparative law is different from the fields of general jurisprudence (legal theory), international law, including both public international law and private international law (also known as conflict of laws).\n\nDespite the differences between comparative law and these other legal fields, comparative law helps inform all of these areas of normativity. For example, comparative law can help international legal institutions, such as those of the United Nations System, in analyzing the laws of different countries regarding their treaty obligations. Comparative law would be applicable to private international law when developing an approach to interpretation in a conflicts analysis. Comparative law may contribute to legal theory by creating categories and concepts of general application. Comparative law may also provide insights into the question of legal transplants, i.e. the transplanting of law and legal institutions from one system to another. The notion of legal transplants was coined by Alan Watson, one of the world's renowned legal scholars specializing in comparative law.\n\nAlso, the usefulness of comparative law for sociology of law and law and economics (and vice versa) is very large. The comparative study of the various legal systems may show how different legal regulations for the same problem function in practice. Conversely, sociology of law and law & economics may help comparative law answer questions, such as: \n\nArminjon, Nolde, and Wolff believed that, for purposes of classifying the (then) contemporary legal systems of the world, it was required that those systems \"per se\" get studied, irrespective of external factors, such as geographical ones. They proposed the classification of legal system into seven groups, or so-called 'families', in particular the\n\n\nRené David proposed the classification of legal systems, according to the different ideology inspiring each one, into five groups or families:\nEspecially with respect to the aggregating by David of the Romano-Germanic and Anglo-Saxon Laws into a single family, David argued that the antithesis between the Anglo-Saxon Laws and Romano-German Laws, is of a technical rather than of an ideological nature. Of a different kind is, for instance, the antithesis between (say) the Italian and the American Law, and of a different kind that between the Soviet, Muslim, Hindu, or Chinese Law. According to David, the Romano-Germanic legal systems included those countries where legal science was formulated according to Roman Law, whereas common law countries are those where law was created from the judges. The characteristics that he believed uniquely differentiate the Western legal family from the other four are\n\nKonrad Zweigert and Hein Kötz propose a different, multidimensional methodology for categorizing laws, i.e. for ordering families of laws. They maintain that, to determine such families, five criteria should be taken into account, in particular: the historical background, the characteristic way of thought, the different institutions, the recognized sources of law, and the dominant ideology. Using the aforementioned criteria, they classify the legal systems of the world into six families:\n\nUp to the second German edition of their introduction to comparative law, Zweigert and Kötz also used to mention Soviet or socialist law as another family of laws.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29586180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29586180", "title": "Contemporary African art", "text": "Contemporary African art\n\nContemporary African art is commonly understood to be art made by artists in Africa and the African diaspora in the post-independence era. However, there are about as many understandings of contemporary African art as there are curators, scholars and artists working in that field. All three terms of this \"wide-reaching noncategory [sic]\" are problematic in themselves: What exactly is \"contemporary\", what makes art \"African\", and when are we talking about art and not any other kind of creative expression? Western scholars and curators have made numerous attempts at defining contemporary African art in the 1990s and early 2000s and proposed a range of categories and genres. They triggered heated debates and controversies especially on the foundations of postcolonial critique. Recent trends indicate a far more relaxed engagement with definitions and identity ascriptions. The global presence and entanglement of Africa and its contemporary artists have become a widely acknowledged fact that still requires and provokes critical reflection but finds itself beyond the pressure of self-justification.\n\nAlthough African art has always been contemporary to its producers, the term \"contemporary African art\" implies a particular kind of art that has conquered, or, as some would say, has been absorbed by the international art world and art market since the 1980s. It is in that decade when Europe and the US became aware of art made in Africa by individual artists, thus breaking with the colonial tradition of assuming collective \"ethnic\" origins of so-called \"tribal art\" as found in most ethnographic collections. The exhibition \"Magiciens de la terre\" by Jean-Hubert Martin in 1989 is widely considered (but also challenged as) a key exhibition in this very recent history of international reception of African and other non-western art. However, this reception, too, has its roots in an exotizing and mystifying view on African culture from a dominant western position, as Rasheed Araeen argued in his response to \"Magiciens de la terre\".\n\nTherefore, although this exhibition and many that followed had a strong influence in creating a kind of a common understanding of what constitutes contemporary African art, it is true that it has been and still is subject to discussions and controversies. Almost every exhibition following \"Magiciens de la terre\" offered a taxonomy or system of categorization that helped to reflect the very notion of contemporary African art, but they failed to recognize the postcolonial need of giving up the Eurocentric epistemology.\n\nContemporary African art is believed to feature particularities typical to African aesthetics while at the same time it shares properties with other international contemporary arts. Therefore, it is both, shaped by and feeding into the globalizing art worlds and art markets, like any other contemporary arts. At the same time, there are a lot of contemporary art practices and forms in African regions and cities that are almost exclusively locally known. While meeting all three requirements of being contemporary, art, and African, they fail to fit into a certain type of art production that has been spreading on the international art market in the last 30 years.\n\nExhibitions variously showed work by artists based in Africa; by artists using aesthetics typical to African traditions; by African artists living in the West but including aesthetics and topics related to their \"roots\"; traditional artworks related to customary practices such as rituals; and urban African art that reflects the modern experience of cultural pluralism and hybridity. Modernity as a colonial and postcolonial experience appears as an intrinsic and significant attribute in most conceptions of contemporary African art. Scholars and curators therefore have proposed a wide range of taxonomies that tried firstly to define what is African about this art, and secondly, the range of genres it covers. Diverse attempts to define particular genres of contemporary African art however mirrored the fascination of art scholars and curators for the appropriation of cultural elements assumed \"Western\" into \"African\" modes of expression and traditions. One example is Marshall W. Mount who proposed four categories: first, \"survivals of traditional styles\", which show continuities in traditional working material and methods such as bronze casting or wood carving; secondly, art inspired by Christian missions; thirdly, souvenir art in the sense of tourist or airport art as defined later by Jules-Rossette; and finally, an emerging art requiring \"techniques that were unknown or rare in traditional African art\". Valentin Y. Mudimbe in turn proposes to think of three currents rather than categories, namely a \"tradition-inspired\" one, a \"modernist\" trend, and \"a popular art\" whereby Mount’s categories would be situated somewhere \"between the tradition-inspired and the modernist trend”. Similar to other categorizations, this proposal considers the education of the artists as well as the envisaged clientele/patrons as important factors for the respective \"currents\". In the exhibition catalogue of \"Africa Explores\" (1991), curator Susan Vogel distinguished between \"traditional art\", \"new functional art\", \"urban art\", \"international art\", and \"extinct art\". Rejecting these categories, collector André Magnin proposed to group similar works into sections named \"territory\", \"frontier\" and \"world\" in his survey book \"Contemporary African Art\", thus placing them into \"imaginary maps\". However, this approach was also criticized by Dele Jegede with convincing arguments against its ethnocentric perspective. Among other things, he pointed to the hubris of attempts to talk about art of a whole continent, but also to the common reflex to exclude Northern Africa in such considerations and to follow a global rather than \"particularistic focus on the study of the art of the continent\" that would provide more specific and deeper bodies of knowledge. In the 1990 exhibition \"Contemporary African Artists: Changing Tradition\", the Studio Museum in Harlem tried to take the perspective of the presented artists and distinguished between African artists who refuse outside influences; African artists who adopt modes of Western art; and African artists who fuse both strategies.\n\nA commonality to all these categorizations is their reliance on dichotomies between art and craft, Europe and Africa, urban and rural, and traditional and contemporary. These dichotomies tend to consider mutual influences in African and European art as an exception rather than the norm. Even more, they fail to think of African art independent from Europe as its counterpart or \"influence\", resulting in a frequent reproach of African artists \"copycatting\" or \"mimicking\" European achievements of modernism. Such Eurocentric attitudes have been revealingly criticized by theorists such as Olu Oguibe, Rasheed Araeen, Nkiru Nzegwu, Okwui Enwezor or Salah Hassan. This problem is not easy to solve, and in some cases it is tackled by simply subverting any attempt of categorization. \"Seven Stories about Modern Art in Africa\", directed by Clémentine Deliss and curated by Chika Okeke-Agulu, Salah Hassan, David Koloane, Wanjiku Nyachae and El Hadji Sy (London, 1995) is a case in point. Rather than grafting binary taxonomies, it narrated seven modern art histories in different parts of Africa by invited curators and artists who were familiar with these recent histories and their respective art scenes. The exhibition proved to offer a highly complex, historically informed and well-researched presentation. Another example for subverting binary taxonomies is the book \"Contemporary African Art after 1980\" by Okwui Enwezor and Chika Okeke-Agulu. Rather than putting contemporary African art in relation to Western traditions, they contrast it with modern African art, in that it defies linear grand narratives of modernism and is radically postcolonial. \"[F]irst, within categories of time, it is neither belated nor does it exist out of time; second, because it is post-historical, it did not emerge out of a succession of historical styles; third, because it is critical of colonial valorization of an authentic past, it is postcolonial; and fourth, in relation to its postcoloniality, it seeks, according to Hans Belting’s thesis, to be post-ethnic […]. Neither being out of time nor belated, contemporary African art strategically inhabits a third epistemological space by being in time.\" As they add, this being \"fundamentally of its time\" counts for all contemporary art, not only the African. In their book, Enwezor and Okeke-Agulu discuss contemporary African art by its approaches and guiding topics rather than trying to define categories on the basis of styles, markets or traditions. Their chapters therefore are designated as \"Between postcolonial utopia and postcolonial realism\", \"Networks of practice\" in the globalized field of cultural production, \"Politics, culture and critique\", \"Archive, document, memory\", \"Abstraction, figuration and subjectivity\" and \"The body politic: difference, gender, sexuality\". Doing so, they locate contemporary African art within a historical perspective, something that had largely missed in previous discussions.\n\n\n1966\n\n1967\n\n1969\n\n1974\n\n1977\n\n1978\n\n1979\n\n1984\n\n1985\n\n1986\n\n1987\n\n1988\n\n1989\n\n1990\n\n\n1991\n\n1992\n\n1993\n\n1994\n\n1995\n\n1996\n\n1997\n\n1998\n\n1999\n\n2000\n\n2001\n\n2002\n\n2003\n\n2004\n\n2005\n\n2006\n\n2007\n2009\n\n2010\n\n\n2011\n\n2012\n2013\n\n2014\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22418744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22418744", "title": "Crib talk", "text": "Crib talk\n\nCrib talk or crib speech is pre-sleep monologue made by young children while in bed. This starts somewhere around one-and-a-half years and usually ends by about two-and-a-half years of age, though children can continue longer. It consists of conversational discourse with turn-taking often containing semantically and syntactically coherent question-answer sequences. It may contain word play and bits of song and nursery rhyme.\n\nCrib talk has been found in deaf children in their early sign language. It also occurs in autistic children.\n\nCrib talk has been divided into three somewhat overlapping varieties.\n\nThis occurs most commonly in early monologues and is done in a low tone. It concerns using language to bring about action and occurs when playing with toys and dolls as “friends” with language embedded in ongoing play. Whilst like conversational speech, it can occur in long uninterrupted sequences in which the child describes what they are doing.\n\nIn this a child creates a story about events that have happened or imaginary events in temporal-causal sequences that can be as short as five words or as long as 150. They may include the reciting of stories that have been read to them. They occur throughout the period in which a child engages in crib talk.\n\nThese concern what happened in the past, what will happen in the future and how events are organized. They incorporate descriptions used by others to enable prediction.\n\nSuch monologues have been argued to play a key role in providing a practice space for developing complex connected discourse, aiding a child to use language as a tool to categorize, explain and know the world, and to “clarify what may originally have been problematic or troublesome”.\n\nSuch talk is more complex than that done by children in interactions with others, and this has been suggested to be due to the freedom to control what they say and so not have their cognitive abilities stretched by having to work out how to respond to what someone has just said.\n\nWhile similar to private speech which usually starts after 3 and ends about 7, crib talk lacks its self-regulatory instructions.\n\nCrib talk is difficult to transcribe because such young children typically have poor pronunciation, and because there may be little context to infer the likely meaning of a child’s words, even with the help of a parent. This has limited the number of children studied and the length of time over which the development of crib talk monologues have been researched.\n\nThe children studied are also atypical in that they are the offspring of researchers or their close colleagues, and so are from highly educated backgrounds. The child studied by Katherine Nelson, for example, was highly precocious in her language abilities, which raises questions about the generality of findings on that one child.\n\nCrib talk was first studied by Ruth Hirsch Weir on her son Anthony and published in 1962. Two other studies have been carried out by Stan Kuczaj on 14 children between 15–30 months - published in 1983 - and Katherine Nelson on Emily in 1989.\n\nAnthony is here between 28 and 30 months playing at grammatical transformations and combinations.\n<poem>Step on the blanket\nWhere is Anthony’s blanket\nWhere is Anthony’s blanket (falsetto)\nWhere’s hiding (falsetto)\nBooks\nDown\nDown\nHave the books today\nI take the white blanket off\nOn the blanket\nUnder the blanket\nSleep go\nWhat a blue blanket\nWhat the take the blanket</poem>\n\n<poem>\nThe broke, car broke, the ..\nEmmy can’t go in the car.\nGo in green car.\nNo.\nEmmy go in the car.\nBroken. Broken.\nTheir car broken, so Mommy Daddy go in their car,\nEmmy Daddy go in the car,\nEmmy Daddy Mommy go in the car,\nbroke,\nDa … da,\nthe car … their, their, care broken (continues) .\n</poem>\n\n<poem>\nWhen mormor get me,\nwhen Mormor mae pretty,\nMommy had a help, my sleep,\nMommy came and Mommy get, get up, time to go home.\nWhen my slep and, and, Mormor came.\nThen Mommy coming then get up, time to go ho-o-me.\nTime to go home.\nDrink p-water [Perrier].\nYesterday did that.\nNow Emmy sleeping in regular bed.\n</poem>\n\nGeorge Miller has noted that the last two verses of A. A. Milne's poem \"In the Dark\" in \"Now We Are Six\" echoes the verbal play of crib talk.\n<poem>So—here I am in the dark alone,\n    There's nobody here to see;\n        I think to myself,\n        I play to myself,\n    And nobody knows what I say to myself;\nHere I am in the dark alone,\n    What is it going to be?\nI can think whatever I like to think,\nI can play whatever I like to play,\nI can laugh whatever I like to laugh,\n    There's nobody here but me.\n\nI'm talking to a rabbit ...\n    I'm talking to the sun ...\nI think I am a hundred—\n    I'm one.\nI'm lying in a forest ...\n    I'm lying in a cave ...\nI'm talking to a Dragon ...\n    I'm BRAVE.\nI'm lying on my left side ...\n    I'm lying on my right ...\nI'll play a lot tomorrow ...\nI'll think a lot tomorrow ...\nI'll laugh ...\n                a lot ...\n                            tomorrow ...\n                            (Heigh-ho !)\n\n                                                    Goodnight</poem>\n\n"}
{"id": "52077437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52077437", "title": "Dostoevsky's Pushkin Speech", "text": "Dostoevsky's Pushkin Speech\n\nDostoyevsky's Pushkin Speech was a speech delivered by Fyodor Dostoyevsky in honour of the Russian poet Alexander Pushkin on at the unveiling of the Pushkin Monument in Moscow.\n\n"}
{"id": "44924579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44924579", "title": "Dry January", "text": "Dry January\n\nDry January is a public health campaign urging people to abstain from alcohol for the month of January, particularly practised in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe campaign, as a formal entity, appears to be relatively recent, being described as having \"sprung up in recent years\" even in 2014. However, the Finnish government had launched a campaign called \"Sober January\" in 1942 as part of its war effort. The term \"Dry January\" was registered as a trademark by the charity Alcohol Concern in mid-2014; the first ever Dry January campaign by Alcohol Concern occurred in January 2013. In the leadup to the January 2015 campaign, for the first time Alcohol Concern partnered with Public Health England.\n\nIn January 2014 according to Alcohol Concern, which initiated the campaign, over 17,000 Britons stopped drinking for that month. While there is controversy as to the efficacy and benefits of the practice, a 2014 survey by the University of Sussex found that six months following January 2014, out of 900 surveyed participants in the custom, 72% had \"kept harmful drinking episodes down\" and 4% were still not drinking.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56121990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56121990", "title": "Dualism (cybernetics)", "text": "Dualism (cybernetics)\n\nDualism in cybernetics refers to systems or problems in which one or more intelligent adversaries attempt to exploit the weaknesses of the investigator. Examples could include a game-playing opponent, adversarial law, evolutionary systems of predator/parasite and prey/host, or politics/enslavement attempts. Norbert Wiener, the founder of cybernetics, contrasted \"Manichean devils\" (dualistic adversarial systems) with \"Augustinian devils\"—systems or problems that, though very complex and difficult to figure out, did not feature an adversary with contrary intent.\n\nVictories or \"expansions of knowledge\" in the latter type of system were able to be built upon incrementally, through science (experimentation expanding empirical knowledge bases). Wiener noted that temporary weaknesses (such as errors to perceive all components of a system) were not fatal in attempts to defeat \"Augustinian devils\" because another experiment could simply be pursued (and he noted that he had personally defeated many \"Augustinian devils\" with his contributions to science and engineering). By contrast, Wiener observed that temporary lapses in judgment against \"Manichean devils\" were more often fatal or destructive, due to the desire of the opponent to \"win/survive at all costs\", even by introducing deception into the system. He said that he had been defeated by many \"Manichean devils\", such as on occasions when he was temporarily careless in chess.\n\nAlthough this duality between complexity (in the case of the Augustinian devils) and opposition (in the case of Manichean devils) may seem obvious, it holds deep implications for many areas of science, such as game theory, political science, computer science, network science, security science, military science, evolutionary biology, and cryptography.\n"}
{"id": "55327521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55327521", "title": "Duckbill shoe", "text": "Duckbill shoe\n\nA duckbill, bearpaw or cow's mouth was a style of shoe with a broad toe which was fashionable in the 15th and 16th centuries. This style started with Charles VIII of France, who had an extra toe and was later worn by Henry VIII of England. It replaced the excessively long toe of the \"poulaine\" but also tended to become impractical as it became enlarged with stuffing and horns and so could be a foot wide, giving the wearer a waddling gait. It might also be adorned with slashes to show the fine lining and sumptuary laws were introduced to restrict all these excesses.\n"}
{"id": "16191901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16191901", "title": "Emanuelle Around the World", "text": "Emanuelle Around the World\n\nEmanuelle Around the World (\"Emanuelle – Perché violenza alle donne?\"), also known as \"The Degradation of Emanuelle\" and \"Confessions of Emanuelle\", is a 1977 sexploitation film by Italian director Joe D'Amato, starring Laura Gemser and George Eastman.\n\nThe film was one of the most expensive films ever made in Italy at that time, not just in cast but in locations. The filming was done in many countries; Hong Kong, Iran, Nepal (though it is billed as being shot in India), America and in a studio in Italy. It features a notable cast, including Gemser, Karin Schubert, Ivan Rassimov and Eastman.\n\nEmanuelle is invited to India to write a report on Guru Shanti, a man who claims to have achieved the ultimate orgasm. Once there she engages in a variety of sex acts, including one with the Guru; she disproves his theory. She then heads to Hong Kong to investigate trafficked women. Once she then arrives back in America, she teams up with fellow reporter Cora Norman and both of them snoop out a trail of men smuggling women to the Middle East.\n\n\nThis film has been subject to much censorship in various territories. The version screened in France and some other European territories contains hardcore footage not found in the original cut. One scene is particularly controversial, as it depicts sexual torture involving a woman, a German Shepherd dog, and a snake. It is not clear whether these were merely inserts or filmed at the time of principal shooting.\n"}
{"id": "16295500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16295500", "title": "Flower parade", "text": "Flower parade\n\nA flower parade is a parade in which the floats, vehicles, boats, participants, animals and other things are decorated or covered in flowers. Often there are other elements like marching bands and people in costumes. Flower parades are held in several countries.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13322429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13322429", "title": "Footman (furniture)", "text": "Footman (furniture)\n\nThe footman is a British term for a metal stand, usually of polished steel or brass, and either oblong or oval in shape, for keeping plates and dishes hot before a dining room fire. A footman was useful prior to the early 20th century, before hot water was easily obtained, and when open fires were common. Although it is still in occasional use, it is now chiefly regarded as an ornament or collectable antique. The derivation of the word is probably linked to the servant, who could also have had the task of warming the dishes.\n"}
{"id": "59139050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59139050", "title": "Gyaanipedia", "text": "Gyaanipedia\n\nGyaanipedia is an online Indian multi language encyclopedia website which is available in five Indian languages - Hindi, Bangla, Telugu, Tamil and Punjabi. It was launched on 30 August 2018 to support Make In India Movement. Now there are more than 8000 pages in English Gyaanipedia and more than 10000 pages in all over Gyaanipedia network.\n\nVarious styles of writing form are used in this website specially the Indian form of writing and the Indian literature. The site has also take care and attracted media attention for its articles on controversial subjects including religion, prominent people, places, politics, Indian villages, culture and the special form of art.\n\nThe slogan of this wiki is \"Made in India\" and the Moto is \"Shows The Unseen Side\". As it also import that pages which were rejected and deleted from Wikipedia. This website is created specially for Indians. It is much like Deletionpedia.\n\nSince last one year Shaunak Chakraborty is watching the Indian people who are struggling to create a page in Wikipedia, but we all knew it very well that how much difficult it is be. He develop sympathy for the people of his nation he want to do something for them. On 1 April 2018 he invited his closed relatives Anandita Bist, Sai Gaurav, Daksh, Akansha Kumari and Tejas for a group discussion on this topic, they suggested to create a site like Wikipedia. It was too difficult to create a same site. On 25 July 2018 Shaunak Chakraborty visited to a site makers for some suggestions he had told the entire process that how he can create a site like Wikipedia. On 16 August 2018 Gyaanimedia Foundation was formed by \"Shaunak Chakraborty\" and his sister \"Anandita Bist\". Under this foundation finally the website Gyaanipedia was formed on 30 August 2018 which was a online historical day for those struggling people of India. This site was formed under Wikia which was powered by Fandom which actually came into force on 31 October 2018. But he needs a independent site so on 05 November 2018 the independent Gyaanipedia was finally launched. The first Indian online encyclopedia with no restrictions and also it is the first wiki website which have IST (Indian Standard Time) time zone. It also works under the same Mediawiki as Wikipedia. On 09 November 2018 the Hindi and Bangla version was launched, on 12 November 2018 Telugu version was launched.\n\nUsually the contents of Gyaanipedia is free and under Creative Commons license but some contents like deleted pages of Wikipedia which were imported to the site is not free. There are some topics on which no one can reproduce it or write it in different form so for those articles, permission is taken from the actual author of the content.\n\nSchool wiki\n\nList of wikis\n\nList of online encyclopedias\n\n"}
{"id": "5224663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5224663", "title": "Hammerman", "text": "Hammerman\n\nHammerman is a Saturday morning cartoon, produced by DIC Entertainment and starring pop rapper MC Hammer, which aired for thirteen episodes on ABC in the fall of 1991.\n\nYouth center worker Stanley Burrell (Hammer's real name) owns a pair of magical dancing shoes (which are alive and can speak), which when worn cause Burrell to transform into the superhero Hammerman. He frequently gets advice from his \"Gramps\", who was a former owner of the shoes and was known as Soulman. While in the guise of Hammerman, Burrell was dressed in MC Hammer's signature purple Hammer pants and myriad golden chains.\n\nThe show was hosted by the real MC Hammer, who also sang the show's theme song, telling about the origin of Hammerman. Back in the 1960s and 1970s, Gramps (Robert Nameson) was the superhero Soulman, but as he grew older, he grew weaker and was forced to retire. Gramps and his granddaughter Jodie traveled to find the next new superhero. Their search was over when they met Stanley and he put on the shoes. Each episode, Hammerman faced various social issues; at the end of each episode, a puppet version of the magic shoes would speak to a live child audience and provide methods the children could use to address these issues themselves.\n\nWhile the airdates and order of most episodes is unknown, \"Defeated Graffiti\", the first episode (as confirmed by MC Hammer's comments at the beginning of the episode), aired on September 7, 1991.\n\nThe cartoon aired on Saturday mornings at 10 AM on ABC.\n\nKnown episodes are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFrom 1992–1993, 3 of the 13 episodes were released on VHS: \"Rapoleon\", \"Defeated Graffiti\", and \"Winnie's Winner\". There are currently no plans for a DVD release.\n\n"}
{"id": "12842287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12842287", "title": "Heated clothing", "text": "Heated clothing\n\nMost heated clothing is designed for cold-weather sports and activities, such as motorcycle riding, downhill skiing, diving, winter biking, and snowmobiling, trekking and for outdoor workers such as construction workers and carpenters. Since the London Olympics, heated clothing has also been used by athletes to keep their muscles warm between the warm-up and the race.\n\nNormal insulation works by trapping body heat, so if it gets wet from sweat or rain, or if a person stops exercising, the insulation may not keep them warm. With heated garments, a person can keep warm even if they are resting and not producing heat, or if their coat is damp from sweat.\n\nThere are many types of heated clothing. Most notably these use 12, 7, and 5-volt powerbanks.\n\nThe 5-volt powerbank allows one to use a common powerbank for both heating apparel and charging personal electronics.\nThe 7-volt battery is the most common type of heated clothing battery system, and may be rechargeable. The most popular items sold have traditionally been heated gloves and jackets.\n\n12-volt batteries are designed for use with motorcycles, ATVs, or snowmobiles, and draw their power from the vehicle's battery. As these use a higher voltage than 7v systems, they are more powerful and therefore heat a larger area at a higher temperature. Most brands using 12v systems are compatible. For instance, most 12v heated jackets come with built-in power cords that come out at the wrists to power heated gloves/liners and out from the bottom to power heated pants/liners. The pants then have cords coming from the bottom of each leg to power socks/liners/insoles.\n\nMost 7v garments will power for around 2-8 hours depending on heat setting and outside conditions. Many jackets and vests can be powered for almost double this time with an extended-life battery, available separately.\n\nThe most widely available types of heated clothing are products for the extremities; the hands and feet. These parts are the most likely to suffer frostbite or frostnip in severe cold. As such, many manufacturers make heated gloves, mittens, socks, and boot liners, which can be purchased at workers' supply stores (serving construction workers) and motor sports stores. Heated torso coverings like vests, jackets, or leggings are available from specialty retailers that cater to motorcyclists and downhill skiers.\n\nRelated products are heated seat covers, throws, and seating pads. Heated seat covers for snowmobiles, motorcycles, and cars and heated throw blankets typically use electrical 12-volt heating elements. Heated seating pads for hunting, canoeing, and stadium use either have rechargeable batteries or use reheatable gel packs.\n\nIn a joint project of adidas, British Cycling and Loughborough University's Environmental Ergonomics Research Centre, the use of heated clothing for reducing the muscle temperature drop in athletes between their warm-up period and the actual race was investigated, and the 'adidas hot pants' were used by the track cycling team at the London Olympics with great success. The science behind this has been published in a series of papers by Faulkner et al., Wilkins and Havenith, and Raccuglia et al.\n\nHeated clothing designed for use on vehicles such as motorbikes or snowmobiling typically use a 12-volt electric current, the standard voltage on motorsport and powersport batteries. While a single heated garment, such as heated gloves, will not usually adversely affect the charge on the battery, riders have to be careful about attaching several heated garments because the battery may not be able to handle the load. The heated garments are usually attached directly onto the battery of the bike. Some heated garments have cigarette lighter plugs. While the least expensive models can only be turned on or off, more expensive models sometimes provide a heating level control. \n\nFor downhill skiing or winter biking, rechargeable nickel metal or lithium batteries are generally used. If not recharged properly, \"battery memory\" will shorten the battery's capability to recharge. There are two types of lithium batteries: Li-ion & Li-Polymer, which use several types of heating technologies including copper wire, nichrome wire, metal \"mesh\" systems, carbon-embedded fabric, carbon fibers and very thin flexible heating technologies that can be printed onto substrate. This has allowed for extra features to be added such as temperature sensors, Bluetooth integration and the ability to control the temperature from a smartphone. \n\nThe most reliable systems have technologies that have redundancy in case of a heating element breakage.\n\nThe controller and battery in some models can be detached so that the garment can be worn as a regular garment.\n\nGarments that use gel have cloth pouches or pockets where plastic packages of the gel can be inserted in the garment. Prior to going outdoors, the gel is heated in a microwave. Once outdoors, the gel pack retains its heat for 30 minutes to two hours, depending on the size of the gel pack, the thickness of the insulation protecting the gel pack from the outdoor temperatures, and wind conditions.\n\nChemical reaction-based garments have cloth pouches or pockets, where single-use packages of chemical hand warmers can be inserted. The warmers are about the size of a package of cards, and they contain chemicals which produce heat. One traditional hand warmer is a small metal box containing charcoal which, when lit, burns very slowly and produces a mild heat. Disposable heat packs typically contain cellulose, iron, water, activated carbon, vermiculite, and salt. When these packs are exposed to air, an exothermic chemical reaction occurs, which provides several hours of heat. Another chemical heating pad uses a gel that can be activated by twisting the package, thus triggering a chemical reaction. The pack can be put in a pot of boiling water to convert the chemical reaction back and allow it to be reused. While these products are commonly called \"hand warmers\", they can be placed in boots or, with special garments such as vests, in cloth pockets on the inside of the garment. The warmth produced by these tends to be lowest among the above heating methods.\n\n"}
{"id": "5711575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5711575", "title": "Hestia Tapestry", "text": "Hestia Tapestry\n\nThe Hestia Tapestry is a Byzantine-era pagan tapestry, made in Egypt during the 6th century AD. It is now in the Dumbarton Oaks Collection in Washington DC. The tapestry is a late representation of the goddess Hestia, who it identifies in Greek as “Hestia Polyolbos\" (\"Hestia full of Blessings\") (). Its history and symbolism are discussed in Friedlander (1945).\n\n"}
{"id": "12344884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12344884", "title": "Holy well", "text": "Holy well\n\nA holy well or sacred spring is a spring or other small body of water revered either in a Christian or pagan context, sometimes both. The term \"holy well\" is commonly employed to refer to any water source of limited size (i.e. not a lake or river, but including pools and natural springs and seeps), which has some significance in the folklore of the area where it is located, whether in the form of a particular name, an associated legend, the attribution of healing qualities to the water through the numinous presence of its guardian spirit or Christian saint, or a ceremony or ritual centred on the well site. In Christian legend, the water is often said to have been made to flow by the action of a saint, a familiar theme especially in the hagiography of Celtic saints.\n\nThe term \"haeligewielle\" is in origin an Anglo-Saxon toponym attached to specific springs in the landscape; its current use has arisen through folklore scholars, antiquarians, and other writers generalising from those actual 'Holy Wells' which survived into the modern era. The term 'holy-hole' is sometimes employed. The terms 'hole' and 'holy' are etymons.\n\nHoly wells in different forms occur in such a wide variety of cultures, religious environments, and historical periods that it is usually held that it is a universal human instinct to revere sources of water. However, the fragmentary nature of the evidence, and the historical differences among cultures and nations, make it very hard to generalize. While there are a few national studies of holy well lore and history, mainly concentrating on Ireland and the British Isles, there is a need for more work examining other regions.\n\nThe earliest work specifically devoted to holy wells is Philip Dixon Hardy's \"Holy Wells of Ireland\" (1836), a Protestant attack on Catholic observances at Irish wells bearing the names of Christian saints, or otherwise considered sacred. By the later 19th century, the term had acquired its current usage: Robert Charles Hope's \"The Legendary Lore of the Holy Wells of England\" (1893), the first general survey of its kind, included a number of named wells which were not dedicated to saints (as well as some rivers and lakes with associated folklore, as Hope mentioned in his subtitle).\n\nIn ancient Greece and Rome a nymphaeum or nymphaion (), was a monument consecrated to the nymphs, especially those of springs.\n\nIn England, there are examples of reverence for wells and springs at a variety of historical periods. The medieval traveller William of Worcester saw a 'holy-hole, or well' within the cave at Wookey (Somerset), a site of human habitation in the Palaeolithic era and the source of a river which had been the site of ritual activity. The proximity of named springs to Neolithic or Iron Age monuments, such as the Swallowhead Springs, close to Silbury Hill (Wiltshire) or the Holy Well near Tadmarton Hill (Oxfordshire), suggests that reverence for such sites continued without a break. There is abundant evidence for the importance of wells and springs in the Roman and sub-Roman period, not just at temple complexes such as Bath (Somerset), Chedworth (Gloucestershire), and Blunsdon Ridge (Wiltshire) which have medicinal springs at their centre, but a variety of smaller sites, and at wells and ritual shafts used for superstitious and sub-religious rituals.\nChristianity strongly affected the development of holy wells in Europe and the Middle East. Aside from the spring that issued from the staff of Moses and the Well of Beersheba, there were already a number of sites mentioned in Jewish and Christian folklore, including Moses' well near Mount Nebo, visited by the fourth-century nun Egeria and many other pilgrims. St Athanasius' Life of St Antony, written about 356–62, mentions the well created by the desert hermit Antony. It is unclear how many Christian holy wells there may have been, as records are very fragmentary and often a well appears only once, making it impossible to tell when reverence for it began and when it ceased, but by the Reformation England, for instance, probably possessed some hundreds. As they were closely linked with the cults of the saints, many wells in countries that converted to Protestant forms of Christianity fell into disuse and were lost, the Holy Well at Walsingham (Norfolk) being a good example, which, having been an integral element of the pilgrimage to the shrine of the Virgin Mary in the village, vanished completely. Nevertheless, this particular holy well at the Anglican Shrine of Our Lady of Walsingham was restored nearby the original site and its water is known for its healing properties, thus making it a popular site of Christian religious pilgrimage. Visiting of wells for therapeutic and entertainment purposes did not completely die out, however, as spas became fashionable in the 17th century and later. Eventually antiquarians (from the 17th century) and folklorists (from the 19th) began to take notice of holy wells and record their surviving traditions.\n\nOver a hundred holy wells exist in Cornwall, each associated with a particular saint, though not always the same one as the dedication of the church.\n\nSeveral holy wells also survive in Turkey, called \"ayazma\" in Turkish, from Greek (\"hagiasma\"), literally \"holiness\". Examples of \"hagiasmata\" are found in the Church of St. Mary of the Spring and the Church of St. Mary of Blachernae, both located in istanbul.\n\nThe Protestant Reformers of the 16th century often assumed that medieval Catholic practices embodied lingering remains of pagan religious practices, and thought of holy wells in that way. This affected the outlook of those who came to study holy well traditions later. The pioneers of folklore study took the view that the customs and legends they were recording were debased versions of pagan rites and myths. Thus it became standard to begin any account of holy wells with the statement that the Christian church had adopted them from the pagans and replaced the heathen gods with Christian saints, in order to win people over to the new religion more smoothly.\nAmong the earliest enthusiasts for holy wells in modern times was the Neopagan movement, for whom wells formed part of 'earth mysteries' study along with ley lines and ancient sites; the view that the Christians had 'stolen' holy wells from the pagan religions fitted in well with their position. The magazines \"Wood and Water\" and \"Meyn Mamvro\", among others, helped shape this approach. During the early- and mid-1990s this viewpoint was under increasing attack crowned by the publication of Ronald Hutton's \"The Pagan Religions of the Ancient British Isles\" (1991) which argued that the evidence for what constituted pre-Christian British religious practices, certainly outside Romano-British times, was next to nil. As far as wells themselves were concerned, the controversy emerged in the pages of \"Source\", the holy wells journal edited by Roy Fry and former Benedictine monk Tristan Gray-Hulse. A number of articles in the journal challenged long-standing myths about holy well history, and the editors published an exchange between the authors and Cheryl Straffon, editor of Cornish earth mysteries magazine \"Meyn Mamvro\", about the evidence for a particular Cornish well's supposed association with the Irish goddess Brigid. The eco-pagan movement has largely accepted the new historiographical approach, but occasionally rather more old-fashioned accounts of holy wells are published, for instance Gary Varner's \"Sacred Springs\" (2002).\n\nA linked argument was over the nature of the influence of the Celts on the well cult. The late Francine Nicholson, an independent student of Celtica, argued forcefully and controversially that the Celts had a unique sensitivity to sacred wells, but never elaborated this in any published work.\n\nMore recently, radically minded scholars have begun questioning the unity of concepts imposed by the term 'holy well'. In a paper in the \"Living Spring Journal\", Jeremy Harte distinguishes between early Anglo-Saxon 'holy wells' and those Christianised in the late Middle Ages, and argues 'apart from being venerated and being wet, they have little in common'; Harte has also stressed that limited evidence may mean that scholars are considerably overestimating the number of holy wells which were active at any one time.\n\nIn a sense, the restoration of holy wells began almost as soon as they were in decline, as a number became the subject of antiquarian interest and some were turned into garden features and put to other decorative uses. However, in more modern times wells have been restored as an expression of interest in the past, sometimes from romantic or religious motives, but mostly as a statement of continuity with the history of a particular community. A good example is St Osyth's Well at West Bierton (Buckinghamshire), 'restored' (and in the process rebuilt completely) by the Parish Council as part of a project marking Millennium Year in 2000.\n\nThe most active holy wells in Britain are those linked to Christian pilgrimages, at Walsingham, Fernyhalgh (Lancashire) and Holywell (Wales), or popular tourist sites (Bath, Somerset). The Chalice Well at Glastonbury (Somerset) is at the centre of a Neopagan- and New Age-orientated spirituality and retreat centre. Other wells, however, are often visited on an informal basis for religious or sightseeing reasons. New forms of holy well reverence continue to emerge now and again, notoriously the so-called Well of the Triple Goddess at Minster-in-Sheppey (Kent). In 2001 Channel 4's archaeological television programme \"Time Team\" was responsible for exposing the infamous archaeological fraud of Llygadwy, a site which included an alleged holy well.\n\nHistoriographically, the publication of Janet and Colin Bord's \"Sacred Waters\" (1985) was influential in reviving interest in the history and folklore of holy wells in Britain. The same year saw the foundation of the journal \"Source\" by Mark Valentine. Attempts to maintain a regular journal for the study of holy wells have been erratic (\"Source\" enjoyed two runs from 1985–89 and 1994–98, and the web-based Living Spring has only had two issues to date) but postings on websites such as The Megalithic Portal show that there is still much interest in this category of ancient site.\n\nOften unmarked on maps and undistinguished by archaeological features, holy wells are a uniquely vulnerable category of ancient site. They continue to be lost to farming, drainage work, development or neglect. A recent instance is the desecration of St Bridget's Well at Rosepark, Balrothery (County Dublin, Ireland), destroyed by building work in 2003 despite being a protected monument. and the destruction of a well at Rath Lugh during the construction of the M3 Motorway in the Tara-Skryne Valley, Ireland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13819533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13819533", "title": "Human Terrain System", "text": "Human Terrain System\n\nThe Human Terrain System (HTS) was a United States Army, Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) support program employing personnel from the social science disciplines – such as anthropology, sociology, political science, regional studies, and linguistics – to provide military commanders and staff with an understanding of the local population (i.e. the \"human terrain\") in the regions in which they are deployed.\n\nThe concept of HTS was first developed in a paper by Montgomery McFate and Andrea Jackson in 2005, which proposed a pilot version of the project as a response to \"identified gaps in [US military] commanders' and staffs' understanding of the local population and culture\", such as became particularly visible during the US invasion of Iraq and Afghanistan. HTS was subsequently launched as a proof-of-concept program, run by the United States Army Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC), in February 2007, with five HTS teams deployed between Iraq and Afghanistan. Since 2007, HTS has grown from a program with five deployed teams and a $20 million two-year budget to one with 31 deployed teams and a $150 million annual budget. HTS became a permanent US Army program in 2010.\n\nEver since its launch, HTS has been surrounded by controversy. While the program initially received positive coverage in the US media, it quickly became the subject of heavy criticism – particularly from anthropologists, but also from journalists, military officials and HTS personnel and former personnel. Most notably, on 31 October 2007, the Executive Board of the American Anthropological Association (AAA) published a statement opposing HTS as an \"unacceptable application of anthropological expertise\" that conflicted with the AAA's Code of Ethics. Following the publication of a report on HTS by the Commission on Engagement of Anthropology with the US Security and Intelligence Services (CEAUSSIC) in 2009, the AAA released a further statement of disapproval, which they re-iterated in 2012 after rumours that the controversy had died down.\n\nThe program evolved into a mechanism for supporting security force assistance. The program ended operations on September 30, 2014.\n\nIn the most immediate sense, HTS was developed as a response to concerns about mismanagement of US military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, and, in particular, to the negative effects of recognized \"deficiencies\" in US military \"cultural understanding\" of these countries. In 2006 the Human Terrain System was launched by the Pentagon, the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense. However, military analysts and academics have also suggested earlier historical contexts for the program's development.\n\nA number of military officials have invoked Civil Operations and Rural Development Support (CORDS) – a counterinsurgency program developed by the US military during the Vietnam war – as a precedent for HTS. In a foundational article on HTS, a group of military analysts, Kipp \"et al\", described the program as \"a CORDS for the 21st Century\". Their article appraised CORDS as a successful and effective program that was \"premised on a belief that the war would ultimately be won or lost not on the battlefield, but in the struggle for the loyalty of the people\". Kipp \"et al\" contended that the only major problems with the CORDS program were that it lacked adequate reachback facilities and that it \"was started too late and ended too soon\". As such, they argued that it provided \"many important lessons\" to \"guide\" the development of HTS as an \"effective cultural intelligence program\" that could \"support tactical and operational-level commanders today\". By contrast, critics of HTS have drawn attention to the fact that, in Vietnam, CORDS was run in conjunction with the Phoenix Program, which used information gathered through CORDS in its effort to \"neutralize\" (by means of assassination, infiltration and capture) supporters of the Viet Cong.\n\nThe concept of \"human terrain\" has been defined in military documents pertaining to HTS as \"the human population in the operational environment ... as defined and characterized by sociocultural, anthropologic and ethnographic data and other non-geographical information\". According to Roberto J. Gonzalez (Associate Professor of Anthropology at San Jose State University, and one of the most vocal critics of HTS), this concept can be traced back to a 1968 report by the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) about \"the perceived threat of the Black Panthers and other militant groups\". He argues that the concept gradually gained in popularity and usage, in the military and elsewhere, through the writing of military officials, such as Ralph Peters, and pundits, such as Max Boot.\n\nCommentators on HTS have also drawn attention to the long history of anthropological involvement in military operations in the US and Europe, though for different reasons. In a 2005 article, Montgomery McFate (HTS's Senior Social Scientist from 2007 to 2010, and an anthropologist by training) argued that anthropology was born as a \"warfighting discipline\", having served in its early history as \"the handmaiden of colonialism\". She suggested that anthropology had retreated \"into the Ivory Tower\" following the Vietnam war, and contended that anthropologists should become involved in developing \"military applications of cultural knowledge\". David Price (Professor of anthropology and sociology at Saint Martin's University) also noted that anthropology and warfare have \"merged\" many times before, but argued that the difference with HTS was that the program had been \"clearly identified\" as involving activities that betrayed \"basic ethical standards for protecting the interests and well-being of studied populations\". Neil L Whitehead (Professor of Anthropology at the University of Wisconsin-Madison) likewise argued that the \"collaboration\" between anthropological theory and colonial practice was \"nothing new\", but went on to suggest that this history – and particularly recent developments such as HTS and the Minerva Initiative – should prompt a critical re-assessment and transformation of anthropological methodology.\n\nA number of commentators on HTS have described the program as part of a \"cultural turn\" in US military policy, particularly pertaining to the War on Terror. According to commentators, this \"cultural turn\" has been characterized by an increasing strategic emphasis on the use of \"cultural knowledge\"; the promotion and funding of a growing number of \"cultural knowledge\" projects in the US Army and National Security services, such as HTS, the Minerva Initiative, and the Pat Roberts Intelligence Scholars Program; and the preference of \"gentler\" approaches to counterinsurgency that prioritize efforts directed towards \"winning hearts and minds\" over \"kinetic\" actions (i.e. the use of military force).\n\nThe beginnings of HTS can be traced to a pilot proposal for a \"Pentagon Office of Operational Cultural Knowledge\", published in 2005 by Montgomery McFate and Andrea Jackson. In July 2005, the Foreign Military Studies Office (FMSO) initiated an HTS pilot project (named Cultural Operations Research – Human Terrain System, or COR-HTS), which was headed up by Captain Don Smith, and housed at the Training and Doctrine Command in Fort Leavenworth. The pilot lasted until August 2006. In July 2006, Colonel Steve Fondacaro (retired) was hired by TRADOC to transition the pilot into an active program. In October 2006, Jacob Kipp and colleagues outlined the Human Terrain System in an official FMSO public press release.\n\nHTS began recruiting in early 2007. In February 2007, the first team was deployed to Afghanistan. Further teams were deployed to Iraq in the summer of that year. Originally, HTS project leaders McFate and Fondacaro had planned for the program to run at a small scale (five teams: two in Afghanistan, three in Iraq) for two years. However, in response to a Joint Urgent Operational Needs Statement (JUONS) from Central Command issued in April 2007, calling for an HTS Team in every Army Brigade and Marine Corps Regiment in Iraq and Afghanistan, the US Defense Secretary, Robert M. Gates, authorized a $40 million expansion of the program in September 2007. The JUONS demanded a 420 per cent expansion of HTS, from the existing five teams to twenty-six teams divided between Iraq and Afghanistan. McFate and Fondacaro referred to this as a \"catastrophic success\", meaning that \"while the boost from the DOD (Department of Defense) was gratifying, fulfilling the mandate would stretch a new organization to the limit\".\n\nFollowing the public statement of disapproval from the AAA, and significant media coverage of the controversy surrounding HTS, the United States Congress issued an order for an independent assessment of HTS to be undertaken by the Center for Naval Analyses (CNA) in September 2009. In May 2010, the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) temporarily limited the Army's funding obligation towards the program while this assessment was completed. The CNA report, which contained the results of interviews with 19 out of 71 commanders supported by HTS, was completed in October 2010. It was subsequently published on the Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC) website in February 2011, but withdrawn from the website shortly after.\n\nIn 2010, HTS was approved by the US Army and became a permanent Army program. In June 2010, Maxie McFarland, the Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence at TRADOC, terminated Fondacaro's temporary position as HTS Program Manager. Colonel Sharon Hamilton was appointed as his replacement. McFate also left HTS in 2010.\n\nOn 8 March 2011, the Center for Complex Operations at the National Defense University hosted a conference titled Inter-agency Human Terrain Program and Requirements. The Center stated that the aims of the conference were to \"improve understanding of human terrain information and analysis and of how it is currently being used\"; to discuss the \"effectiveness\" of HTS; and to discuss ethical and legal issues associated with the program. In June 2011, AFRICOM requested and launched a pilot HTS program. In December 2011, Colonel Hamilton reported that the US Central Command had issued a requirement for an increase of 9 HTS teams in Afghanistan by summer 2012, to bring the total number of teams in Afghanistan up to 31.\n\nIn 2012, HTS officials began prioritizing HTS involvement in \"Phase Zero\" or, in other words, the earliest, \"prevention of conflict\" stage of a military campaign. In April 2012, \"Defense News\" reported that the Director of HTS, Colonel Sharon Hamilton, had been \"working on a plan\" to expand the use of HTS into other regions such as Africa and Latin America, and was considering whether HTS personnel could be deployed in Mexico to support military counter-narcotic work. In August 2012, Hamilton retired from HTS and from the US Army, and was replaced as Director by Colonel Steve Bentley. In October 2013, Colonel Bentley was replaced by Colonel Thomas Georges.\n\nAs part of the ongoing drawdown from Afghanistan in 2013–2014, the Army programmed HTS funding to drop proportionately, eliminating human terrain teams as units were removed from theater. By September 2014, all HTS teams and personnel had been withdrawn from Afghanistan. Contract and personnel support to the program ceased at the end of the month, effectively ending the program's operations as of 1 October 2014. However, money was still allocated for the program in FY 2015.\n\nDuring a 15-day operation in the late summer of 2007, 500 Afghan and 500 US soldiers were deployed to clear an estimated 200 to 250 Taliban insurgents out of Paktia Province, secure southeastern Afghanistan's most important road, and halt a string of suicide attacks on US troops and local governors. During the operation, an HTS anthropologist, Tracy St. Benoit, identified an unusually high concentration of widows in poverty, creating pressure on their sons to join the well-paid insurgents. Citing St. Benoit's advice, US officers developed a job training program for the widows. She also interpreted the beheading of a local tribal elder as an effort to divide and weaken the Zadran, rather than as a more general attempt at intimidation. As a result, Afghan and US officials focused on uniting the Zadran, one of southeastern Afghanistan's most powerful tribes, as a way of hindering the Taliban's operations in the area.\n\n800 Afghan soldiers, 400 US soldiers and 200 Afghan policemen took part in Operation Maiwand, in which Afghan soldiers raided houses of suspected militants. \"Stars and Stripes\" reported that in one Pashtun village, Kuz Khadokhel, the Human Terrain Team (HTT) made it possible for negotiator Captain Aaron White to understand body language in the context of the culture, to identify leaders during negotiations, and to reinforce a perception of leadership by not conferring with fellow officers and by demonstrating good faith through projects facilitated by the Ghazni Provincial Reconstruction Team (PRT), which included roads, a visit by the PRT's mobile medical clinic, the construction of a deep well for irrigation, and the beginnings of a road to Afghanistan's main Highway 1.\n\nMichael V. Bhatia, a member of HTT AF1, was killed along with two other soldiers by an IED (Improvised Explosive Device) while riding in a Humvee in Khost, Afghanistan in May 2008.\n\nNicole Suveges, a member of HTT IZ3, was killed on 24 June 2008, along with 11 other soldiers, Iraqi government officials and United States Embassy personnel when a bomb exploded at the District Council building in Sadr City.\n\nOn 4 November 2008, HTS member Paula Loyd was fatally injured whilst surveying the village of Chehel Gazi with a US Army platoon. She was doused with gasoline disguised in a jar of cooking oil and lit on fire by Abdul Salam, an Afghan national. Loyd was severely burned over 60 percent of her body. Salam was captured by Don. M Ayala (another member of HTS) and other US Army personnel almost immediately after the attack, as he tried to escape. About ten minutes later, after learning of the severity of Loyd's injuries, Ayala shot Salam in the head, killing him instantly. Loyd, 36, died at Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio on 7 January 2009. Ayala pleaded guilty to voluntary manslaughter in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia in February 2009. On 8 May 2009, he was sentenced to five years probation and a $12,500 fine. On 1 September 2010, the \"Times-Picayune\" of Louisiana posted a documentary video of friends and family speaking in support of Ayala at sentencing.\n\nWith the end of major American presences in Iraq and Afghanistan, and a shift towards electronic data collection, the need for HTS became less apparent. On 30 September 2014, funding ended for the program.\n\nHTS is defined as an \"intelligence enabling capability\", and is categorized as \"Intelligence support activity\". According to the HTS website, the aim of the program is to \"provide sociocultural teams to commanders and staff\" in the US Army in order to \"improve the understanding of the local population\", and to \"apply this understanding to the Military Decision Making Process (MDMP)\". The website also argues that the program was designed to address an identified \"operational need\" in the US Army for \"sociocultural support\".\n\nHTS has two main components: an institutional component referred to as the \"Army Enduring Base\", and an operational component referred to as \"Deployed Teams\". Both components include numerous sub-divisions.\n\nThe Project Office is based in Newport News and is composed of the Director, the Deputy Director, and Project staff (including human resources, social scientists, knowledge management, and information technology (IT) teams).\n\nThe RRC is a Continental United States (CONUS)-based research and analysis program that provides support to deployed HTTs, HTATs, and TCEs. It is made up of a combination of social scientists, military analysts and civilian analysts who are organized into teams that specialize in research in a particular geographical region. RRC personnel are responsible for supplying information from open source and classified sources to deployed HTS teams, and for continuously updating HTS databases.\n\nHTS training is based at Fort Leavenworth in Kansas. Training focuses on field research methods, staff planning and procedures, and equipment training.\n\nHuman Terrain Teams (HTT) work at the brigade or regimental level of the US Army. They undertake research among the local population, and represent that population (referred to as the \"human terrain\") in the various stages of military operations: planning, preparation, execution, and assessment. Human Terrain Teams contain 5–6 members and consist of a Team Leader, who is a principal adviser and is responsible for the entire team; one or two Social Scientists, who are responsible for conducting and managing ethnographic and social-science research for the brigade staff's area of operations; one Research Manager, who is responsible for integrating the HTT's research into their military unit's intelligence collection effort and interacting with other agencies and organizations; and one or two Human Terrain Analysts, who have specific local knowledge and act as the primary human terrain data researcher. HTTs are responsible for providing a constantly updated, user-friendly ethnographic and socio-cultural database of the area of operations that comprises data maps showing specific ethnographic or cultural features; raising points on cultural or ethnographic issues of specific concern to the unit commander; and sustaining a connection with RRC.\n\nHuman Terrain and Analysis Teams provide support to echelons of the US Army that are above brigade or regimental level (e.g., division or regional command). They form a part of the Commander's staff and are responsible for analyzing the information provided by HTTs in order to support the Commander's Military Decision Making Process (MDMP). HTATs are made up of one Team Leader, one or two Social Scientists, one or two Research Managers, and one or two Human Terrain Analysts.\n\nTCEs are made up of a mixture of military and civilian staff. They are responsible for providing sociocultural support to the military staff and commanders of a particular operational region or theater. A TCE comprises one Team Leader, three Social Scientists, one or two Research Managers, and one or two Human Terrain Analysts.\n\nTSOs are responsible for providing administrative and logistics support to HTTs in a particular operational region or theater. They are made up of one Theater Support Officer and a variably-sized support team.\n\nSSRA is responsible for liaising with indigenous polling organizations and small or medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in order to gather data and information from the local population. This information is then passed on to the TCE.\n\nThe HTS program focuses on mapping the \"human terrain\" (i.e. the local population in an area in which military are deployed). In order to do this, HTTs create databases of information about local leaders, tribes or social groups, political disputes, economic issues, and social problems. This information is then analyzed by HTATs, used to advise military staff and commanders, and used to inform the Military Decision Making Process (MDMP). Collected data is compiled and stored in a larger archive in order to be accessible for the military and other government agencies.\n\nHTS has developed the MAP-HT Toolkit, an integrated software suite provided to HTTs for data visualization and reporting. This includes software for mapping (of the spatial distribution of social groups, for example), and for producing link charts (of power structures and social networks in informal economies, for example) and timelines. Components in the toolkit include: ANTHROPAC, UCINET, Axis PRO, i2 Analyst's Notebook, and TerraExplorer, a 3D earth visualization application provided by Skyline Software Systems.\n\nThe initial funding for the Human Terrain System came from the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization (JIEDDO). The JIEDDO funding of $20 million, granted in the summer 2006, supported the pilot HTS project from mid-2006 to 2007. Following the Central Command JUONS request for the major and rapid expansion of HTS in April 2007, the Defense Secretary approved a $40 million expansion of HTS to be funded by the Department of Defense (DOD). DOD provided HTS funding until 2009 when funding responsibilities were assumed by Army G2 (i.e., the Army's Military Intelligence budget). In 2009 it was reported that the annual budget for the program was $143 million. In May 2010 the HASC temporarily limited the funding obligation to HTS until the Army submitted an assessment of the program that addressed concerns that had been raised. In 2011, McFate stated that HTS had a $150 million annual budget.\n\n\nIn a speech in 2008, Robert Gates (US Defense Secretary) praised HTS, saying that although the program had experienced early \"teething problems\" the \"net effect\" of HTS efforts was often \"less violence across the board, with fewer hardships and casualties among civilians as a result\".\n\nIn a 2007 article on HTS in the \"New York Times\", David Rohde, an American journalist who has twice won the Pulitzer Prize, reported that one of the first HTTs to be deployed in Afghanistan had received \"lavish\" praise from officers for \"helping them see the situation from an Afghan perspective and allowing them to cut back on combat operations\". He wrote that HTS had also been praised by Afghan and Western civilian officials in the area, although they had been \"cautious about predicting long term success\". Rohde also cited Colonel David Woods (Commander of the 4th Squadron of the 73rd Cavalry Regiment) as having remarked: \"Call it what you want, it works ... It works in helping you define the problems, not just the symptoms.\"\n\nIn a statement to the United States House of Representatives in 2008, Colonel Martin Schweitzer, Commander of the 4th Brigade Combat Team of the 82nd Airborne Division, claimed that HTS capabilities had reduced his unit's \"kinetic operations\" in Afghanistan by 60–70 per cent within a year. His statement of praise for HTS was subsequently reported in the \"New York Times\" and \"Harper's Magazine\" as well as other press media. It was also cited by Robert Gates when he praised the program in 2010. Schweitzer's statistics, however, were later disputed by David Price.\n\nThe US media has reported a number of positive review from HTS employees. In 2008, \"World Politics Review\" ran a feature article on David Matsuda (a former professor of anthropology at California State University) who described HTS as \"the chance to change the nature of warfare, the chance to anthropologize the military – and not the other way around – the chance to lessen casualties, avoid conflict, take people through the post-conflict to peace\". Matsuda also described the disapproval of anthropologists as a \"knee-jerk reaction\" and stated \"I came here to save lives, to make friends out of enemies\". Michael Bhatia, an embedded anthropologist who was killed whilst serving in Afghanistan, contended that \"some academics have created a polemical enemy image rather than actually learning what HTS does\". Audrey Roberts, an HTS social scientist who worked with a US Army Brigade at Forward Operating Base Salerno near Khost in Afghanistan, expressed her support of the HTS approach in an interview from 2009.\n\nIn 2006, George Packer, author of \"The Assassin's Gate: America in Iraq\" and \"New Yorker\" magazine staff writer, wrote an article about the increasing use of social science in US military operations and the early trials of the HTS program. He reflected: \"At a moment when the Bush Administration has run out of ideas and lost control, it could turn away from its \"war on terror\" and follow a different path – one that is right under its nose.\"\n\nIn a (mainly critical) book about HTS entitled \"David Petraeus's Favorite Mushroom: Inside the US Army's Human Terrain System\" (2009), John Stanton stated that HTS had been successful in advising a US military unit in Iraq on proper mealtime etiquette, i.e., not only how to properly eat, but also the gestures during the meal, and especially how to observe the Ramadan feast.\n\nOn 31 October 2007, the American Anthropological Association (AAA) published a statement opposing HTS as an \"unacceptable application of anthropological expertise\". The statement argued that HTS personnel would have responsibilities to the U.S military working in war zones that would conflict with anthropologists' duty, as outlined in the AAA Code of Ethics (Section III, A, 1), to \"do no harm to those they study\". It further maintained that, working in a war zone, HTS personnel would be unable to ensure the \"voluntary informed consent (without coercion)\" of those whom they communicate with, as is also required by the AAA Code of Ethics (Section III, A, 4).\n\nIn December 2008, the AAA Executive Board followed up their initial statement of disapproval by asking the Commission on Engagement of Anthropology with the US Security and Intelligence Services (CEAUSSIC) to thoroughly review the HTS program. CEAUSSIC's \"Final Report on the Army's Human Terrain Proof-of-Concept System\" was released in December 2009.\n\nCEAUSSIC's 74-page report argued that the \"goals\" and \"basic identity\" of HTS were characterized by \"confusion\", and that the program was designed to simultaneously perform multiple tasks that were \"potentially irreconcilable\"; e.g., serving as research function whilst also operating as \"a source of intelligence\" and a \"tactical function in counterinsurgency warfare\". It added that this confusion would make it unclear to anthropologists whether they could follow the Code of Ethics or not. The commission further maintained that HTS personnel would be unable to \"maintain reliable control\" over the information they collected, and that there was a \"significant likelihood\" that HTS data would be used \"as part of military intelligence\", which would place \"researchers and their counterparts in the field in harm's way\". It also noted that if HTS were a research organization, \"it would be required to comply with federal law for subject protection\" and suggested that it was \"unusual\" that the program had avoided oversight by an Institutional Review Board (IRB). In conclusion, the report stated: \"When ethnographic investigation is determined by military missions, not subject to external review, where data collection occurs in the context of war, integrated into the goals of counterinsurgency, and in a potentially coercive environment – all characteristic features of the HTS concept and its application – it can no longer be considered a legitimate professional exercise of anthropology\". It recommended that the AAA emphasize the incompatibility of HTS with anthropological disciplinary ethics and practice.\n\nIn April 2012, the AAA restated their disapproval of the HTS program after a cover story article in \"C4ISR\" (a \"Defense News\" publication) claimed that \"the controversy ha[d] cooled\" and that HTS would have a recruiter at the annual AAA meeting in November that year. The AAA denied both claims.\n\nIn 2007, the Network of Concerned Anthropologists (NCA) was founded by a group of anthropologists, largely in response to the HTS program. In 2010, the Network wrote an \"Anthropologists' Statement on the Human Terrain System Program\" to the United States House of Representatives, which was signed by over 700 anthropologists. The statement called for Congress to halt governmental support to HTS and cancel plans for its expansion, giving the following reasons: \"There is no evidence that HTS is effective\"; \"HTS is dangerous and reckless\"; \"HTS wastes taxpayers money\"; \"HTS is unethical for anthropologists and other social scientists\".\n\nRoberto J. Gonzalez (Associate Professor of Anthropology at San Jose State University), Hugh Gusterson (Professor of Anthropology and Sociology at George Mason University), and David Price (Professor of Anthropology and Sociology at Saint Martin's University) – three of the founding members of NCA – have all written numerous articles criticizing HTS as an effort to \"weaponize anthropology\". In a 2010 article, Gusterson wrote of the program: \"The Pentagon seems to have decided that anthropology is to the war on terror what physics was to the cold war\". He criticized HTS for performing \"drive-by research\" as well as violating disciplinary ethics, arguing that the AAA Code of Ethics is comparable to the Hippocratic oath: \"Asking an anthropologist to gather intelligence that may lead to someone's death or imprisonment ... is like asking an army doctor to kill a wounded insurgent\". David Price has described HTS as part of a \"neocolonial\" mission. \"Human Terrain System\", he maintained, \"is not some neutral humanitarian project, it is an arm of the US military and it is part of the military's mission to occupy and destroy opposition to US goals and objectives ... HTS's goal is a gentler form of domination\". In an article in \"Counterpunch\" in April 2009, Price disputed Colonel Schweitzer's claims that HTS had reduced kinetic action by 60–70%, reporting that his efforts to track the studies (via the Freedom of Information Act) on which these statistics were based resulted in Schweitzer's admission that there were no such studies and that the statistics were a \"loose estimate\". In the same article, Price also criticized the coverage of HTS in the US media and published a list of ten fundamental issues that reporters needed to address.\n\nIn a paper from 2009, Neil L Whitehead, Professor of Anthropology at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, questioned whether HTS can work in the way that it is promoted to do. Drawing on anthropological studies of warfare that demonstrate the socially transformative effects of warfare and military action, Whitehead argued that the practice of anthropology becomes \"highly problematic\" in a situation where anthropology is being deployed to report on \"the very phenomenon it is a part of changing, whether consciously or not\". He therefore suggested that ethical objections to HTS are not limited to the anthropologist's potential violation of their duty of confidentiality and responsibility to their informants, but also include the questionable \"ethical responsibility\" of those anthropologists and military planners \"erroneously\" promoting HTS as being able to work in ways that \"in all likelihood\" cannot actually work, thereby \"endangering anthropologists and soldiers alike\".\n\nOther anthropologists who have criticized HTS include Marshall Sahlins, who describes HTS as \"manipulating local culture, imposing [our government's objectives] on them, transforming anthropologists into spies, and putting people you work with [in the locale] at risk\"; and Maximilian Forte, who has published numerous articles on HTS in academic journals and on internet websites.\n\nIn 2009, Major Ben Connable (Marine Corps) published an article in \"Military Review\" which argued that HTS was \"undermining\" the US Army's \"cultural competence\".\n\nA number of former HTS personnel have also criticized the program. In 2007, social scientist Zenia Helbig was fired from HTS after raising concerns that the program was disorganized and provided insufficient region-specific training. In the same year, Matt Tompkins, an HTT Leader, remarked that defense contractors supporting HTS were not providing sufficient training or staffing, and that the social scientists on his team lacked region-specific expertise. After resigning from the program in 2010, John Allison criticized HTS for its doctrinal inflexibility and lack of openness to anthropological perspectives and suggestions for improvement.\n\nIn June 2013, a team of four researchers from the US National Defense University in Washington, DC published an in-depth assessment of HTS and the HTTs in Afghanistan, entitled \"Human Terrain Teams: An Organizational Innovation for Sociocultural Knowledge in Irregular Warfare\". This was the first publicly released book with a history of the program as well as an assessment of the teams in the field. The study's conclusions were also published in \"Joint Force Quarterly\" in July 2013.\n\nThe study emerged from the Project for National Security Reform and its flagship assessment of the US national security system, Forging a New Shield. The study interviewed 87 individuals in a total of 105 interviews. The participants were principally team members, with commanders (primarily Brigade- and Task Force-level commanders) being the core variable able to define effectiveness of the team under their command. HTS program managers, knowledgeable defense-related persons, and some Iraq team members were interviewed. In researching the program's history, the study's authors found that the relationship between HTS and the Army's Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) was one of the primary reasons for the problems within the program. Decisions made about HTS by TRADOC, such as new personnel contracts, had a negative impact on the program. However, the lack of a theory of performance in the beginning by HTS, and the lack of continual assessments of the teams in the field by HTS, meant that the program managers lacked the knowledge to train and deploy effective HTTs.\n\nThe authors also point out that the study's assessments strongly agree with the conclusions of earlier studies conducted by faculty at West Point, the Center for Naval Analyses (CNA), and the Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA). All four studies concluded that the program suffered from multiple problems in its creation and implementation, which inhibited the effectiveness of the teams in the field. Yet, all agree that a high majority of commanders were extremely supportive of the teams and found them effective.\n\nThe NDU study was different in that it categorized the commanders' assessments according to basic concepts of \"Cultural Awareness\" (Description), \"Cultural Understanding\" (Explanation), and \"Cultural Intelligence\" (Prediction). It was found that most commanders only found and used their HTTs at the first level, Awareness. Some of the better performing HTTs could offer Understanding. Only a few HTTs, the very high performing teams with highly effective individuals, held a strong sense of teamwork and were commanded by culturally aware units and commanders. If commanders did not care about cultural issues, which did occur in some cases, the team would have no impact regardless of the team's effectiveness in other circumstances.\n\nFinally, the nature of the intelligence architecture in Afghanistan was seen as the issue that had the biggest impact on HTT performance. Because the intelligence architecture did not value sociocultural knowledge and was not built to provide it, HTTs themselves had to be the ground sensors, a role they had not been designed to fulfill. HTTs were intended to be the aggregators of knowledge at the Brigade level to synthesize information to commanders directly. If HTTs had been built to be the sensors, they would have had to be multiplied in size and number many times over. By utilizing the HTTs as the primary interviewers and data analysts, their effectiveness was constrained. Since HTT members had relatively short tours (9–12 months), and would usually have a new Brigade arrive in the middle of their tour, their effectiveness was further reduced by their constant need to train new units on area features. The NDU team concluded that had soldiers themselves been the primary sensors on the ground, as recommended in LTG Michael T. Flynn's \"Fixing Intel\" monograph, HTTs would have better been able to perform the role they were originally intended to serve.\n\nThe NDU book ends by suggesting that HTS be turned over to the U.S. Army Special Operations Command (USASOC). There were a number of reasons the team suggested USASOC would be a better fit for HTS: TRADOC had been a prime cause of multiple programmatic problems for HTS throughout its history; the US military has a history of intentionally forgetting and deinstitutionalizing cultural programs; and the future operating environment would be utilizing Special Operations forces to a greater degree than regular Army/Marines units.\n\nAnn Marlowe wrote a piece about HTS for the \"Weekly Standard\" in November 2007, stating that \"there are some things the Army needs in Afghanistan, but more academics are not at the top of the list.\"\n\nIn 2010, James Der Derian, David Udris, and Michael Udris released a documentary film about HTS entitled \"\". The film has been described as having two main narrative components: the first is an inquiry into the HTS program and its history; the second is a narrative of the \"tragic\" story of Michael Bhatia's involvement in HTS. The film features interviews with numerous individuals who have played an important role in the history of HTS and the public debate surrounding the program, including Michael Bhatia, Steve Fondacaro, Roberto Gonzalez, Hugh Gusterson, and Montgomery McFate.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17856477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17856477", "title": "Indian students abroad", "text": "Indian students abroad\n\nThe number of Indian students studying abroad rapidly increased by 163% between 1999 and 2006 to reach 145,539 as compared to slower growth of 25% between 2006 and 2013 to reach 181,872, according an analysis of UNESCO data. \n\nStudents of Indian origin are traveling in higher numbers than ever before to pursue higher education abroad. Nearly 85% of internationally mobile Indian students head for five countries—the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada and New Zealand—but China and Germany are both emerging destinations for Indian students heading abroad, though the numbers heading for Germany are still relatively small. In 2006, of the 123,000 studying outside India, 76,500 chose the US, followed by the UK; in 2001 India overtook China as the source of the largest number of foreign students in the United States.\n\nThe number of students studying in the US rose 94,563 to 103,260 in 2010–11. Most of the students choose either the east coast or the mid-west as their destination.\n\nIn 2001 India overtook China as the source of the largest number of foreign students in the United States. \"In the US alone, nearly 45% of international students are either Chinese or Indians. That's almost half the market. Canada seems to be headed that way too. In 2010, the percentage share for China plus India was 30%. In 2014, it was almost 42%\", the report noted.\n\nThe number of Indian students studying in the UK nearly doubled between 1999 and 2009, when 19,205 Indian students were studying at UK institutions. , half of all Indian students in the UK were studying at the postgraduate level.\n\nAfter peaking in 2009, the number of Indian students studying in Australia fell following racial attacks; by 2015 the number had risen to exceed the 2009 number. During 2013-14, 34,100 Australian visas were issued to Indian students, a rise of 38% as compared to the previous year.\n\nAs of 2014-15, there are approximately 11000 Indian students studying in Germany, comprising 4.9% of international students in the country. Numbers are rising. German universities have started offering several master's programs in English, attracting Indian students.\n\nNearly 85% of internationally mobile Indian students head for five countries: the US, UK, Australia, Canada and New Zealand, but in addition to Germany, China, Ukraine, Russia and Georgia are some emerging destination for Indian students heading abroad. Romania and Ukraine has also emerged as a destination for Indian students of medicine as the education system is regulated under the European Union and is of a higher quality than in the countries of the former USSR quality is relatively better compared to Ex-USSR, China, and the Philippines.\n\nMany Indian students are also opting for higher education in the Netherlands because of the high quality of education, availability of more than 2,000 courses taught completely in English, and access to the European Union including career opportunities after graduation. In 2017, approximately 2,021 Indian students went to the Netherlands for higher studies.\n\nMany Indians have also chosen to study in Denmark and Norway, which offer many professional courses, and about 100 in Poland.\n\n"}
{"id": "12691183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12691183", "title": "International psychology", "text": "International psychology\n\nInternational or global psychology is an emerging branch of psychology that focuses on the worldwide enterprise of psychology in terms of communication and networking, cross-cultural comparison, scholarship, practice, and pedagogy (Stevens & Gielen, 2007). Often, the terms international psychology, global psychology, and cross-cultural psychology are used interchangeably, but their purposes are subtly and importantly different: Global means worldwide, international means across and between nations, cross-cultural means across cultures. In contrast, the term “multicultural” is more often used to refer to ethnic and other cultural differences existing within a given nation rather than to global or international comparisons.\n\nInternational psychology is concerned with the emergence and practice of psychology in different parts of the world (Stevens & Gielen, 2007). It advocates committed involvement in worldwide and regional psychology and policy-making organizations such as the International Union of Psychological Science (IUPsyS includes 87 national psychology associations and more than 20 international/regional associations), the International Association of Applied Psychology (IAAP), the International Association of Cross-Cultural Psychology (IACCP), the International Council of Psychologists (ICP), the European Federation of Psychologists’ Associations (EFPA: it includes 36 national psychology associations), the Sociedad Interamericana de Psicología (SIP), the recently founded Pan-African Psychological Union (PAPU), and others. In addition, there exist more than 100 international psychology organizations each focusing on a specific subdiscipline. The goal is to establish psychology as a global discipline that in its theories, research practices, applications, and ethical aspirations is focused on the psychological study of humanity as a whole while avoiding as much as possible ethnocentric biases and preoccupations (McCormick & Constantable, 2015; Stevens & Wedding, 2004). For an annotated bibliography on international psychology that covers 156 publications, see Takooshian, Gielen, Rich, and Velayo (2016). \n\nIn contrast, the term “global psychology” is more frequently used to refer to the worldwide investigation of global issues and phenomena from a psychological and psychocultural point of view. Examples include the investigation of subjective well being, identification and treatment of mental health problems, the psychological dimensions of family systems, gender roles and gender-typed behavior, childrearing practices, cognitive and emotional functioning, international attitudes, value systems, intergroup conflicts, threats to the natural environment, societal transformation and national development, the struggles of disempowered groups (such as women, children, immigrants, and refugees) as seen in a global perspective (Stevens & Gielen, 2007).\n\nCross-cultural psychology may be defined as the comparative study of behavior and mental processes in different cultures. It aims to measure the psychological phenomena across cultures and looks for patterns, generalizability, and culture-specific differentiation (Shiraev & Levy, 2013). An example would be the investigation of child-rearing practices and their psychological consequences among distinctly different groups. Cross-cultural psychology focuses on the relationship between psychology and culture (such as language, traditions, predominant values, and socialization practices) and how it affects individual human functioning. In this respect, cross-cultural psychology constitutes one important element of global psychology. Cross-cultural psychology emerged during the 1960s-1970s as a separate field of study with a definite identity; it is thus older than the more general field of international psychology, which is only now emerging as a distinct discipline.\n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary (1993) defines global as, “…pertaining to or involving the world, worldwide” (p. 1101) and international as, “Existing, occurring, or carried on between nations…Agreed on by many nations; used by, or able to be used by (the people of) many nations” (p. 1397). At present the term international psychology is in wider use although Stevens and Gielen (2007) prefer the term global psychology, to underline the increasingly global nature of psychological phenomena and problems together with their scientific investigation and efforts to ameliorate them. More generally, the emergence and intensification of an international psychology movement is part and parcel of the broader process of globalization in the scientific, economic, technological, sociocultural, political and ecological spheres. It reflects and makes use of the increasingly global flow of information, ideas, and peoples. In addition, globalization in psychology has led to the \"de facto\" use of English as the predominant means of communication so that academics in many parts of the world are now expected to read and publish in English-language journals.\n\nIt should be added that international psychology, global psychology, and cross-cultural psychology share the common goal of making psychology more universal and less ethnocentric in character. Because American psychologists dominated the field of psychology especially in the decades after World War II, they frequently ignored contributions from other parts of the world and claimed, whether explicitly or implicitly, that their theories, concepts, ethical standards, and empirical findings applied to all—or at least most—people around the world. In addition, because they largely ignored books and journals not written in English, American psychology became a largely monocultural and monolinguistic discipline (Draguns, 2001). Consequently, it is a key goal of internationally oriented psychologists both in the US and elsewhere to turn psychology into a more universally and less culturally biased discipline that contributes to human welfare everywhere while strengthening \"world consciouness\" rather than ethnocentric and potentially violent forms of nationalism or extremist religious preoccupations (Leong, Pickren, Leach, & Marsella, 2012). Practical advice about how to internationalize the teaching of psychology can be found in the handbook by Rich, Gielen, and Takooshian (2017).\n\nMajor foci of international psychology include:\n\n\nModern scientific psychology had an international dimension from its beginnings in the late 19th century. Wilhelm Wundt (1832-1920), for instance, the father of modern experimental psychology, supervised approximately 190 doctoral students from at least 10 countries. Similarly, the First International Congress of Physiological Psychology in 1889, in Paris, included more than 200 participants from 20 countries (Sabourin & Cooper, 2014). Although psychology developed first in Europe, it soon began to prosper in the United States as well. Altogether, modern scientific psychology remained a predominantly western enterprise till well after World War II although modern psychology was already present in the early 1900s some in nonwestern countries such as India, Japan, and Mexico. During the 1930s many prominent psychologists from Germany and Austria emigrated to the United States. As a result of these developments, psychology in the United States assumed worldwide leadership, but also grew increasingly monocultural, monolingual, and ethnocentric in character (see David and Buchanan, 2003, and Bullock, 2012, for timelines of important events in the history of international psychology). However, there is now an increased awareness among U.S. psychologists that U.S. psychology must take into account global developments in order to fully represent the world of psychology. For instance, the American Psychological Association established in 1997 an International Psychology Division (Division 52), which currently has about 600 members.\n\nDuring the last three to four decades, especially, psychology has expanded worldwide and assumed a global presence. Stevens and Gielen (2007) and some others have estimated that there are over one million psychologists. This estimate is based on local definitions of what it means to be a professional psychologist: in most countries the prerequisite is a Master's degree or Diploma in psychology, whereas in others (e.g., Brazil) a professionally oriented Bachelor’s degree that incorporates a period of supervised practice enable one to gain admission to a licensing examination. The global estimate includes well over 320,000 psychologists in Europe, at least 250,000 in Latin America, and 225,000 in the United States. The country with the highest density of psychologists is Argentina. In addition, psychology has gained ground in East and Southeast Asia and is increasingly visible in Muslim countries such as Turkey, Egypt, Jordan, Iran, and Lebanon (Ahmed & Gielen, 1998; Baker, 2012; Stevens & Wedding, 2004). In sub-Saharan Africa, psychology is well developed in South Africa, but less present though expanding in the other regions. For more detailed information, see the edited volume by Stevens and Wedding (2004) which includes analyses of the status of psychology in 27 countries located on all inhabited continents. The handbook by Baker (2012) reviews the respective histories of psychology in 27 countries and regions around the world while the volume by Rich and Gielen (2015) focuses on 17 past and present pathfinders in the realm of international psychology. The contributions respectively to Moodley, Gielen, and Wu (2013) and Gerstein et al. (2009) analyze the status of counseling psychology and psychotherapy in numerous countries.\n\nIn general, psychology as a discipline has prospered in well-to-do, urbanized, and individualistic countries and cultures but it is frequently considered an unnecessary luxury in the poorer and more rural regions of the world where the treatment of physical health problems by modern healthcare workers and indigenous healers is likely to take precedence over the identification and treatment of mental health problems (Leung & Zhang, 1995; O'Gorman, Shum, Halford, & Ogilvie, 2012). Such problems are frequently treated by indigenous healers who tend to rely on supernatural explanations for their identification and treatment. However, a global mental health movement that has been strongly influenced by psychiatrists is gathering steam. This makes it likely that in the future, greater resources will be allocated to mental health problems especially in medium-income countries (Patel et al., 2014). Countries where psychology is both influential and especially well developed include The Netherlands, Switzerland, Israel, Germany, USA, United Kingdom, Australia, Indonesia, Austria, the Scandinavian countries, and Argentina (especially psychoanalysis).\n\nPerhaps the best measure of trends within international psychology is within its organizations, through new membership, conference topics, and cooperative research across borders. For example, the International Union of Psychological Science (IUPsyS) has seen an increase of new member countries from Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, and Latin America in the past 15 years; membership in such organizations represents a desire and need in these countries for networking, training, accreditation, expansion of scientific research, and international recognition (Stevens & Gielen, 2007). Correspondingly, international psychology conferences are now increasingly taking place in both Western and non-Western countries. IUPSyS's quadrennial International Congresses of Psychology (ICP), for instance, have been and will be taking place in Beijing (2004), Berlin (2008), Cape Town (2012), Yokohama (2016), and Prague (2020). Similarly, the quadrennial Congresses of Applied Psychology offered by IAAP, the largest international psychology organization for individual members, have taken or will take place around the globe in cities such as San Francisco (1998), Singapore (2002), Athens (2006), Melbourne (2010), Paris (2014), and Montreal (2018).\n\nTrends in global psychology point to the sustained growth, specialization, and feminization of psychology, and the emergence of contextually sensitive paradigms.\n\nThe number of psychologists, psychology students, and psychology programs worldwide continues to grow steadily, proving that one of the goals of globalization is being met. However, much work still needs to be done to bring psychology to underdeveloped areas, and to increase the resources and development of the field in countries where it has already taken hold (Adair & Kağitçibaşi, 1995; Stevens & Wedding, 2004).\n\nSpecialization is a growing trend, with each nation focusing specializations on its own needs and goals. Also, communication within these specializations is being facilitated through the World Wide Web and the emergence and growth of specialized international organizations and journals in subfields of psychology. Although access to the Internet is frequently still limited in low-income countries, it has nevertheless improved considerably in recent years thus facilitating the exchange of scientific and professional information as well as research data. The \"Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology\", for instance, is increasingly publishing papers by large teams of international psychologists that compare psychological phenomena across numerous countries located on all inhabited continents. Moreover, high impact psychological journals published in North America and Europe have broadened their scope by increasingly accepting articles by international and non-Western authors including those residing in East Asian countries. \n\nFeminization in psychology is another trend, as women are beginning to dominate the field in Europe, Latin America, Canada, the United States, and parts of Asia. A trend within this trend is the continued dominance of male psychologists within business and academia, whereas women tend to work more frequently in school, counseling, and clinical settings.\n\nFinally, with the globalization of psychology comes the demand for more culturally sensitive paradigms (Heine, 2016). Traditionally, psychology was taught in the Western context, reflecting the norms, values, and data of those particular regions. Increasing awareness that this psychology does not sufficiently address culturally specific as well as global issues and therefore does not fully apply to some cultures has led to the call for indigenous psychologies, or at least an alternative psychology to the mainstream, reductionistic paradigm which may be applied to most, if not all, cultures (Kim, Yang, & Hwang, 2006). Prominent centers of indigenous psychology include Mexico, the Philippines, South Korea, and Taiwan. Moreover, the increasing inclusion of globally collected data of psychological relevance is gradually undermining the traditionally ethnocentric nature of psychology as taught in the United States and elsewhere in the West (e.g., Hofstede, 2001). Theoretically, indigenous psychologists emphasizing culturally sensitive paradigms tend to see themselves as cultural rather than as cross-cultural psychologists.\n\nMany countries around the world have professional regulations for the practice of psychology. “With some exceptions, the existence of professional regulation reflects the level of development of professional psychology in that country. A profession needs to establish an identity and credibility before there is something to be regulated” (Pettifor, 2007, p. 312). In the 36 European countries represented in EFPA, a major effort is underway to unify the basic academic curriculum as well as other requirements underlying the training and certification of psychologists. These countries have established specific yet wide ranging guidelines for a European Diploma in Psychology comparable to a Master’s level university education of six years duration that includes supervised practice. The diploma will enable psychologists trained in one country to practice in other European countries and is likely to influence the education and practice of psychologists in other parts of the world as well.\n\nCountries that currently have limited or no regulation of the profession include India, Iran, Japan, Kenya, Kuwait, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Philippines, Poland, Russia, Singapore, Thailand and Turkey. Several of these countries are working toward licensing legislation, and several have developed ethical standards of practice to guide.\nMany national psychology associations have adopted a code of ethics such as, for instance, APA’s Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code of Conduct. EFPA has adopted several codes of ethics in recent years, and the five Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden) adopted a unified code of ethics in 1988, which they revised in 1998 to be more consistent with EFPA’s meta-code (Pettifor, 2007). Moreover, IUPsyS and IAAP adopted, in 2008, a Universal Declaration of Ethical Principles for Psychologists. Such codes and declarations tend to be aspirational in nature.\n\nThe scope of scientific psychology and its practice have expanded enormously from its early beginnings in the 19th century to today. This holds true for all post-industrial countries and increasingly for some modernizing nations such as Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Mexico, the Philippines, and Turkey. In contrast, psychology remains much less visible in the poorer countries and especially so in their rural areas. The expansion of psychology into the nonwestern world has led to an increasing awareness of the role of cultural factors in psychological functioning together with repeated calls to “indigenize” psychology (Kim, Yang, & Hwang, 2006). International contacts among psychologists as well as joint research and applied projects across national and geographic boundaries have prospered thanks to the rapidly evolving technologies of transportation and electronic communication. Consequently, one may safely predict that the cross-cultural, global, and international dimensions of psychology will become more prominent in the foreseeable future.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45009994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45009994", "title": "Invisible Sister", "text": "Invisible Sister\n\nInvisible Sister is a 2015 Disney Channel Original Movie, based on the book \"My Invisible Sister\" by Beatrice Colin and Sara Pinto. The film is directed by Paul Hoen, and stars Rowan Blanchard and Paris Berelc. It focuses on a student who turns her older sister invisible due to a failed science project. It premiered on October 9, 2015, and was viewed by 4.03 million people.\n\nCleo (Rowan Blanchard) is a teenage girl living in the shadow of her older sister, Molly (Paris Berelc), whose popularity gets her recognized by everyone at school. Although Cleo is hardly noticed compared to her sister, she is an excellent student, but is introverted and somewhat sarcastic and cynical.\n\nCleo's science teacher, Mr. Perkins (Alex Désert), sees her potential in science and decides she needs a challenge for her class project; she is to determine a mystery substance and transform it into its crystal state. As she works on the experiment at home, while Molly hosts a dinner for her lacrosse team, a moth flies by and distracts Cleo, causing her to accidentally spill unknown chemicals into her solution. The steam produced ends up turning the moth invisible, leading Cleo to chase it around the house, full of guests, before it gets away.\n\nLater, while Molly is preparing for bed, the moth returns, attracted to the light from the bathroom. The moth falls into a cup of water containing an antacid Molly is about to drink, and she unknowingly consumes the moth which renders her invisible.\n\nThe next morning, Molly is horrified when she cannot see herself and discovers the reason from Cleo. She must attend school to participate in the season opener for her lacrosse team, which college scouts will be watching. As it is Halloween, she decides to wear her costume to mask her invisibility, but when the costume also turns invisible, Molly has Cleo wear the costume and pretend to be her at school. Cleo attends the pep circle for the lacrosse team while Molly grabs a microscope from the science classroom so Cleo can figure out how to make her visible again. In the process, Molly hears Carter (Will Meyers), a boy Cleo likes, talking with George (Karan Brar) about Cleo; she manages to secure a date for her sister by pretending to be her and asking Carter out. Things get complicated when George finds out Molly's invisibility, and her boyfriend Coug (Austin Freyberger) questions why she is constantly avoiding him. Later in the lacrosse game, Cleo has a rough start but slowly gets into the game with Molly's help, resulting in a victory for the team.\n\nUpon observing Molly's cells under the microscope, Cleo and George conclude that her invisibility will become permanent unless they can formulate an antidote before midnight, twenty-four hours after Molly swallowed the moth, so they need to reproduce the results from Cleo's earlier experiment. The sisters go to a cemetery to catch another moth while George goes to school to set up. While in the cemetery, Molly's frustration over her invisibility mounts, leading to a heated argument with Cleo. In apologizing, Cleo admits to admiring Molly's \"light\" and is jealous because her not sharing in it makes her feel invisible. After Molly secures a moth for the experiment, the sisters take a trolley to school. While in transit, Molly tells Cleo she understands her feeling invisible, but she also envies Cleo's genius, as she knows her popularity is fleeting. Cleo clarifies to Molly that her \"light\" is about more than popularity.\n\nWhen they arrive at school and meet George, they realize they need to get past the security guard. Using her invisibility, Molly manages to scare him out, allowing Cleo and George to enter and duplicate Cleo's original experiment. The solution turns out to be too complex for either Cleo or George to understand, and they need Carter, a governor's scholar, to analyze the results.\n\nThey look for him at the school's annual Halloween party \"Romp the Swamp\". While searching, Cleo bumps into Coug, who is doubting his relationship with Molly and needs to be shown she cares for him, despite being invisible. Eventually, Cleo finds Carter, who is upset with her mixed attitude, expecting they would be together for the party. After informing him about the situation, she takes him to a nearby barn, where her sister, Coug and George are gathered.\n\nWith time running short, Cleo, George, Carter and Coug work together to develop an antidote for Molly, narrowly making the midnight deadline. They nearly get in trouble when Mr. Perkins, in charge of the party, finds them in the barn, but Molly informs him about Cleo's experiment before drinking the antidote, risking the deadline. When she finally gets to the antidote, it fails but not because it passed midnight. Molly had taken some antacid the night before when she consumed the moth, so after Cleo adds a dose of that to the antidote, Molly becomes visible again upon drinking it.\n\nAstonished by the results of Cleo's project, Mr. Perkins asks her to present her findings at a seminar of the New Orleans Association of Applied Scientists. Cleo gains a greater appreciation for the fine line between visible and invisible.\n\n\nThe film was officially announced on January 9, 2015, along with the casting of Rowan Blanchard and Paris Berelc as Cleo and Molly. On February 27, Karan Brar, Rachel Crow, and Austin Fryberger were cast as George, Nikki, and The Coug. Filming began in February 2015 and ended in April 2015 in New Orleans.\n\nThe movie was viewed by 4.03 million people on its premiere night, making it the third most-watched broadcast on cable that night. An encore broadcast the next morning received 2.31 million viewers.\n\nThe film aired on October 9, 2015 on Disney Channel in the United States and Canada. In Canada, due to a technical error at the end of the movie, the last ten minutes were replaced with the \"Teen Beach 2\" music video, \"That's How We Do\". It was however fixed the next day. It premiered in French as \"Ma Soeur est invisible!\" on February 28, 2016. \"Invisible Sister\" premiered on Disney Channel in the United Kingdom and Ireland on October 23. The movie premiered on Disney Channel Israel on December 10, 2015.\n"}
{"id": "3630375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3630375", "title": "Lastikman", "text": "Lastikman\n\nLastikman originally spelled Lastik Man is a fictional character and Filipino comics superhero created by Mars Ravelo and artist Mar T. Santana. Lastikman or the original spelling of Lastik Man debuted in comics format - certainly in \"Aliwan Komiks\" #56 (December 7, 1964). Based and patterned from DC Comics' Plastic Man, and/or Marvel's Mister Fantastic, Lastikman can also stretch, transform and into many imaginable forms and shapes he desires.\n\nThis Mars Ravelo fictional character was first spotted in Aliwan Komiks in 1964. His name was derived from the English word \"elastic,\" which means \"flexible and stretchable.\" His claim to fame was his ability to stretch parts of his body, and reshape himself into whatever form.\n\nIn the 1965 comic book of Aliwan Komiks \"Lastik Man Vol. 1\", Lastik Man is introduced as a new comic book superhero, an alien from another planet who somehow got trapped on earth. Lastikman then decided to fight crime in the Philippines, mainly Manila.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, Aliwan's publisher Graphic Arts Service, Inc. (GASI) brought back the character in a new series of stories by various writers and artists. For this revival, Lastikman was given a new costume and, for the first time, a secret identity, that of scientist Dr. Manuel De Lastico. \n\nThe feature was apparently so successful that GASI decided to spin off Lastikman into his own magazine. One of the Philippines' greatest superheroes would also find himself at death's door. And it happened in the very first issue of his new comic book. The first issue #1 of the new Lastikman Komiks was released on September 28, 1995. \n\nHowever, it seemed as though success had gone to the checkered champion's head. In the first \"Issue #1: \"Color of Death\"\" (written by Almel de Guzman and illustrated by Arnel Coronel), the once-noble hero has become boastful and arrogant, much to the dismay of his once-adoring public. \n\nOne day, an old soothsayer warns Lastikman of his impending doom. Naturally, the proud hero laughs the prophecy off. Soon after, Blaab, an alien from the planet Thufpox, threatens to move the Earth a few degrees from its orbit because it's blocking the radiowaves vital to his new intergalactic weapon, the Cyberbeam. At first, Lastikman doesn't take the alien runt seriously. But once Blaab makes good on his threat, causing several natural disasters in the process, the prideful protector is forced to take action. \n\nLastikman first takes on Blaab's bulky minion Megan, who manages to twist and bend him out of shape, but the elastic egotist eventually succeeds in keeping his opponent under wraps. And to prove just how big a jerk he has become, Lastikman shows blatant reckless disregard by hurling his defeated foe towards an oncoming plane. \n\nNext up to challenge our hero is Frikton, who looks like an evil teaspoon with arms and legs. As expected, Lastikman underestimates his new foe, which turns out to be a fatal mistake. Frikton transforms into a super-heated ball that causes the swell-headed hero's body to melt (It also causes him to scream like a girl. Rather undignified way for a hero to go). And with that, Lastikman kicks the bucket. Or rather, oozes right into it. \n\nDetaching from his liquefied remains, Lastikman's spirit ends up in Limbo. There, he is confronted by the League of Pinoy Superheroes, whose members include a big muscular guy with a barbell and a woman with stars on her bra. Standing trial before a jury of his peers, Lastikman is judged guilty of the sin of pride. The fallen hero shows remorse for his arrogance and pleads for a chance to redeem himself. The jury of heroes exercises leniency, combining their powers to restore Lastikman back to life. \n\nWhen Lastikman returns to action, he flies through the air by turning his ears into little-bitty wings. The resurrected Lastikman eventually defeats the alien invaders and emerges from this adventure with a renewed sense of humility.\n\nIn \"Issue #3: \"Playground\"\" (October 12, 1995), Lastikman faces the mad toymaker Professor Gilmor. Abused as a child, the brilliant but twisted genius came to believe that grown-ups are the root of all evil in the world, and aims to exterminate all adults with his murderous high-tech toys. \nA recurring villain, Professor Gilmor menaced Lastikman anew in issue #9. \n\nIn \"Issue #4: \"Gold\"\" (October 19, 1995), a chunk of gold recovered from the planet \"There\" turns out to be a shape-shifting alien lifeform. Though not necessarily hostile (unless provoked), it nonetheless causes a panic when it wanders into the city. It turns out that all the lonely gilded visitor wanted was a little love, which it finally finds in the arms of a bronze statue. \n\nIn \"Issue #5: \"Lastikman vs Taong Putik\"\" (translated from Tagalog as Lastikman vs Mud Man) (October 26, 1995), while most of the other writers depicted Lastikman as a traditional bland do-gooder type, Mike Tan (co-creator of such series as Trigger 2000 and Kampeon) imbued him with more of a personality and a sense of humor. After a botched chemical plant heist, one of the frustrated thieves throws a chemical canister into a boggy creek. Sometime later, a man falls into the contaminated water and emerges transformed into a massive mud-encrusted monster with heat vision. By coincidence, the man behind the mud happened to be secretly in love with Dr. Manuel De Lastico/Lastikman's girlfriend Cecile. Sure enough, the lovesick lump of loam cuts in on his rubbery rival for the fair damsel's affections. \n\nIn \"Issue #6: \"Pyrona\"\" (November 2, 1995), Dr. De Lastico finds an injured young woman on his doorstep. He nurses her back to health for over a week, after which the recovered girl abruptly decides to leave his care. Soon after, industrial plants are being attacked by a flame-powered villainess named Pyrona. Obviously, Pyrona and the mysterious girl Dr. De Lastico treated earlier are one and the same. Eventually, Pyrona realizes that her opponent Lastikman is none other than the kind doctor who helped her. Anyway, Pyrona reveals that her actions were not altogether malicious. She's actually a fugitive from another planet who crashed to Earth while trying to escape her world's authorities. A rebel leader opposed to the modernization of her homeworld at the expense of its environment, she sees the Earth treading a similar destructive path and decided to take drastic action, as misguided as her method may be. \n\nIn \"Issue #7: \"Earthquakes\" (November 9, 1995), an evil dwarf named Gummo awakens from a 100-year sleep. Enraged to see towering skyscrapers in place of his beloved forest home, he causes a devastating earthquake that lays waste to an entire city, and threatens to do the same to every city in the nation. \n\nIn issue #8: \"Creatura\"\" (November 16, 1995), as the story opens, we learn that Lastikman does not age. His girlfriend Cecile decides to break up with him, concerned that she would someday look old enough to be his mother while he stays forever young. The heartbroken hero then takes his frustrations out on the bad guys. Meanwhile, a crippled orphan named Bobet is befriended by a giant sea monster, which he names Creatura. But although friendly, the continued pollution of its water habitat eventually drives Creatura to go on a destructive rampage. Of course, the creature isn't the real villain of the story, but rather the unscrupulous chemical plant owner responsible for the pollution. \n\nIn \"Issue #10: \"Dzuteh\"\" (November 30, 1995), Lastikman battles the dark forces of Dzuteh, a Tibetan sorcerer who seeks an ancient book containing the secret of eternal life. Dzuteh succeeds in finding the lost book. But the big twist in the story is what that book turns out to be—The Holy Bible. \n\nIn \"Issue #11: \"Lastikman Versus Babaeng Kidlat\"\" (Lastikman Versus Lightning Woman) (December 7, 1995), Lastikman's powers are mysteriously fading. To find out what the problem is, he examines himself in the laboratory of his secluded spaceship deep in the mountains of Sierra Madre. Meanwhile, a \"cosmic spirit\" comes to Earth and inhabits the body of a female mountaineer, becoming Thundra, the Lightning Woman. Swearing vengeance against Cosmo, the Space Gladiator who destroyed her previous body, she drains all the electricity in the vicinity, causing a massive blackout that affects even the power supply of Lastikman's ship. \n\nUnable to restore his powers, Lastikman gets so depressed that HE ACTUALLY CONSIDERS KILLING HIMSELF. Fortunately, it never comes to that. His ship's emergency energy reserves kick in, and he discovers that his body is low on the \"foreign matters\" that give him his shape-shifting abilities. Once a special machine on his ship replenishes those foreign matters in his body, Lastikman is finally able to take on the lethal Lightning Lady. \n\nIn \"Issue #13: \"Spektro\"\" (December 21, 1995), Spektro, the self-proclaimed God of Mirrors, has been kidnapping beautiful young women, sucking them through the looking glass and into his mirror dimension. Among the victims are movie star Minona Roder and supermodel Isabella Mosollini. Lastikman manages to prevent the abduction of another victim by disguising himself as her bedsheet. \n\nIn \"Issue #14\" (December 28, 1995), the final issue featured 2 Lastikman stories. The first story \"Versus\" introduced Versus, a criminal from Lastikman's native planet Zorak who was imprisoned in a mirror and sent adrift into outer space. Entering the Earth's orbit, shockwaves from the French nuclear tests cause the mirror to shatter, releasing the alien prisoner. Versus eventually discovers that he possesses shape-shifting abilities on Earth. And just as any extraterrestrial supervillain would do, he decides to use his powers to take over the world. This naturally brings him into conflict with Lastikman who just happens to be the son of Versus' jailer. The second tale \"Cyberman\" has Lastikman going up against a cyborg bodyguard gone rogue.\n\nFollowing the cancellation of his book, Lastikman went back to the pages of Aliwan Komiks, running for 2 more years from 1996 to 1997.\n\nLastikman would be absent from the comics scene for about 8 years, but would remain in the public consciousness thanks to 2 movie adaptations (the 2002 film starring Vic Sotto and the 2004 version with Mark Bautista), followed by the 2007-08 TV series starring Vhong Navarro.\n\nIn the 2003 movie version, Young Hilario is near a rubber tree when a meteor strikes it, and somehow gains powers of elasticity. His grandfather inspires him to use his newfound powers to do good deeds, and thus honour the memories of his dead parents. Hilario grows up to become a Professor in physics, and also the superhero Lastikman.\n\nIn the 2004 movie version, Young Adrian - a lanky teenager whose father became a drunkard after the death of his mother - was mauled to death by illegal loggers whom he prevented from cutting the trees in the forest. He was left lifeless under a rubber tree, which revived him and gave him special power.\n\nJust in time to celebrate the 40th anniversary of Mars Ravelo's fantastic, elastic creation, Mango Comics is proud to bring Lastikman back to the pages of comics in full color. Lastikman Issue #1 is a special 56-page one-shot comic that reinvents Mars Ravelo's popular elastic superhero. It pays homage to the original story of one of the country's most popular superheroes. The story details the arrival of Lastikman on Earth, as he's chased by an invading force from his home planet. The story re-images characters from the original series, such as Don Rufo, Vinya, and Toto, as well as introduces Mango Comics' first original superhero, Atomika. It was made possible in part through generous contributions to the Support Filipino Comics Program. Created in 1965, Lastikman comes to life through the writing of acclaimed comic book creator and inker Gerry Alanguilan (Wasted, ), the art of two-time National Book Award winner Arnold Arre (Mythology Class, Trip to Tagaytay), and the brilliant colors of the talented Edgar Tadeo (Wolverine, Silver Surfer).\n\nIn the 2004 comic, Lastikman crashed on Earth and lost all of his memory. He then decided to fight crime and later in the comic book he found out that he was a lesser experiment of an alien species called Lastomorphs, humanoids with the powers of elasticity.\n\nFor the moment, Lastikman's comic book career is once more dormant. But the character remains familiar and popular even to the current generation, so it is perhaps only a matter of time until he comes back for another stretch.\n\nThe Ravelos commissioned Bong Leal to re-design LASTIKMAN's costume for the 2007 TV series.\n\nLastikman was given the ability to mimic the form and elasticity of rubber. He can stretch and reshape his body in any way he desires. While he usually retains the checkered colors of his costume in whatever shape he takes, he can change from his costumed incarnation into his normal human self with any clothes at will, and apparently could look like anyone he desires.\n\n\"For More Information, See: Lastikman (TV series)\"\n\nThe first to play the title role was Von Serna, the dad of Snooky Serna, in 1968. It returned to the screen, with Vic Sotto as the Lastikman, in 2003. That same year, the elastic character made an appearance in Bong Revilla's movie, Captain Barbell. It was Christopher \"PJ\" Malonzo who wore the predominantly-black-with-white-boxes costume. A year after, it was Mark Bautista's turn to be Lastikman in Mars Ravelo's Lastikman: Unang Banat.\n\n\n\"Lastikman Komiks\" was a 5-Star Komiks Magasin published by Graphic Arts Service, Inc. Edited by Vic Soriano, it was published from September 28 – December 28, 1995. Its title was based on Mars Ravelo's original character Lastikman, who first appeared in the pages of \"Aliwan Komiks\". \"Lastikman Komiks\" ran weekly for 14 issues. A typical issue featured a 15-page Lastikman story and three 5-page back-up strips: 2 of these were Turbogirl and Lastikdog, while the remaining spot was occupied by the alternating strips \"Amazing Amazons\" and \"The Raptors.\" Sonny Trinidad served as regular cover artist.\n\nLastikdog who, while not a Ravelo creation, is affiliated with one of his greatest heroes. Lastikdog first appeared in 1995 in the pages of Lastikman Komiks, and later in Aliwan Komiks. The series was written by Jeffrey Marcelino Ong, with art by Larry Santiago and Zer Hipolito. Trojan was an intelligent pet dalmatian owned by Dr. Manuel De Lastico, who also happened to be the superhero Lastikman. One day, while his master was away, Trojan spotted a passing pickup truck carrying a female dog at the back. Infatuated, Trojan follows the truck to the house of an eccentric scientist named Professor Pakto. As the dogs were playing, Trojan knocked over a container of chemicals that the professor was working on. He then proceeded to drink the chemical that spilled on the floor. The formula gave Trojan shape-shifting abilities similar to those of his master's. He would go on to follow in his owner's footsteps, using his newfound powers to fight evil as Lastikdog. All the while, Lastikman is totally unaware of his pet's crime-fighting activities! There's a point in the series where Lastikman becomes jealous and insecure with his pet Trojan. However, they eventually agreed to fight bad guys together. Unfortunately, Lastikdog died in the end after rescuing a baby Dalmatian from a burning establishment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "149832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149832", "title": "Leitmotif", "text": "Leitmotif\n\nA leitmotif or leitmotiv is a \"short, constantly recurring musical phrase\" associated with a particular person, place, or idea. It is closely related to the musical concepts of \"idée fixe\" or motto-theme. The spelling \"leitmotif\" is an anglicization of the German \"Leitmotiv\" (), literally meaning \"leading motif\", or perhaps more accurately, \"guiding motif\". A musical motif has been defined as a \"short musical idea ... melodic, harmonic, or rhythmic, or all three\", a salient recurring figure, musical fragment or succession of notes that has some special importance in or is characteristic of a composition: \"the smallest structural unit possessing thematic identity.\"\n\nIn particular, such a motif should be \"clearly identified so as to retain its identity if modified on subsequent appearances\" whether such modification be in terms of rhythm, harmony, orchestration or accompaniment. It may also be \"combined with other leitmotifs to suggest a new dramatic condition\" or development. The technique is notably associated with the operas of Richard Wagner, and most especially his \"Der Ring des Nibelungen\", although he was not its originator and did not employ the word in connection with his work.\n\nAlthough usually a short melody, it can also be a chord progression or even a simple rhythm. Leitmotifs can help to bind a work together into a coherent whole, and also enable the composer to relate a story without the use of words, or to add an extra level to an already present story.\n\nBy association, the word has also been used to mean any sort of recurring theme, (whether or not subject to developmental transformation) in literature, or (metaphorically) the life of a fictional character or a real person. It is sometimes also used in discussion of other musical genres, such as instrumental pieces, cinema, and video game music, sometimes interchangeably with the more general category of \"theme\".\n\nThe use of characteristic, short, recurring motifs in orchestral music can be traced back to the early seventeenth century, such as L'Orfeo by Monteverdi. In French opera of the late eighteenth century, (such as the works of Gluck, Grétry and Méhul), \"reminiscence motif\" can be identified, which may recur at a significant juncture in the plot to establish an association with earlier events. Their use, however, is not extensive or systematic. The power of the technique was exploited early in the nineteenth century by composers of Romantic opera, such as Carl Maria von Weber, where recurring themes or ideas were sometimes used in association with specific characters (e.g. Samiel in \"Der Freischütz\" is coupled with the chord of a diminished seventh). The first use of the word \"leitmotif\" in print was by the critic Friedrich Wilhelm Jähns in describing Weber's work, although this was not until 1871.\n\nMotifs also figured occasionally in purely instrumental music of the Romantic period. The related idea of the musical \"idée fixe\" was coined by Hector Berlioz in reference to his \"Symphonie fantastique\" (1830). This purely instrumental, programmatic work (subtitled Episode in the Life of an Artist) features a recurring melody representing the object of the artist's obsessive affection and depicting her presence in various real and imagined situations.\n\nThough perhaps not corresponding to the strict definition of leitmotiv, several of Verdi's operas feature similar thematic tunes, often introduced in the overtures or preludes, and recurring to mark the presence of a character or to invoke a particular sentiment. In La forza del destino, the opening theme of the overture recurs whenever Leonora feels guilt or fear. In Il Trovatore, the theme of the first aria by Azucena is repeated whenever she invokes the horror of how her mother was burnt alive and the devastating revenge she attempted then. In Don Carlo, there are at least three leitmotivs that recur regularly across the five acts: the first is associated with the poverty and suffering from war, the second is associated with prayers around the tomb of Carlos V, and the third is introduced as a duet between Don Carlo and the Marquis of Posa, thereafter accentuating sentiments of sincere friendship and loyalty.\n\nRichard Wagner is the earliest composer most specifically associated with the concept of leitmotif. His cycle of four operas, \"Der Ring des Nibelungen\" (the music for which was written between 1853 and 1869), uses hundreds of leitmotifs, often related to specific characters, things, or situations. While some of these leitmotifs occur in only one of the operas, many recur throughout the entire cycle.\nWagner had raised the issue of how music could best unite disparate elements of the plot of a music drama in his essay \"Opera and Drama\" (1851); the leitmotif technique corresponds to this ideal.\n\nSome controversy surrounded the use of the word in Wagner's own circle: Wagner never authorised the use of the word \"leitmotiv\", using words such as \"Grundthema\" (basic idea), or simply \"Motiv\". His preferred name for the technique was \"Hauptmotiv\" (principal motif), which he first used in 1877; the only time he used the word \"Leitmotiv\", he referred to \"so-called Leitmotivs\".\n\nThe word gained currency with the overly literal interpretations of Wagner's music by Hans von Wolzogen, who in 1876 published a \"Leitfaden\" (guide or manual) to the \"Ring\". In it he claimed to have isolated and named all of the recurring motifs in the cycle (the motif of \"Servitude\", the \"Spear\" or \"Treaty\" motif, etc.), often leading to absurdities or contradictions with Wagner's actual practice. Some of the motifs he identified began to appear in the published musical scores of the operas, arousing Wagner's annoyance; his wife Cosima Wagner quoted him as saying \"People will think all this nonsense is done at my request!\". In fact Wagner himself never publicly named any of his leitmotifs, preferring to emphasise their flexibility of association, role in the musical form, and emotional effect. The practice of naming leitmotifs nevertheless continued, featuring in the work of prominent Wagnerian critics Ernest Newman, Deryck Cooke and Robert Donington.\n\nThe resulting lists of leitmotifs also attracted the ridicule of anti-Wagnerian critics and composers (such as Eduard Hanslick, Claude Debussy, and Igor Stravinsky). They identified the motif with Wagner's own approach to composing, mocking the impression of a musical \"address book\" or list of \"cloakroom numbers\" it created.\n\nSince Wagner, the use of leitmotifs has been taken up by many other composers. Richard Strauss used the device in many of his operas and several of his symphonic poems. Despite his sometimes acerbic comments on Wagner, Claude Debussy utilised leitmotifs in his opera \"Pelléas et Mélisande\" (1902). Arnold Schoenberg used a complex set of leitmotifs in his choral work \"Gurre-Lieder\" (completed 1911). Alban Berg's opera \"Wozzeck\" (1914–1922) also utilises leitmotifs. The leitmotif was also a major feature of the opera \"The Immortal Hour\" by the English composer Rutland Boughton. His constantly recurrent, memorably tuneful leitmotifs contributed in no small way to the widespread popularity of the opera.\n\nThe critic Theodor W. Adorno, in his book \"In Search of Wagner\" (written in the 1930s), expresses the opinion that the entire concept of the leitmotif is flawed. The motif cannot be both the bearer of expression and a musical 'gesture', because that reduces emotional content to a mechanical process. He notes that 'even in Wagner's own day the public made a crude link between the leitmotivs and the persons they characterised' because people's innate mental processes did not necessarily correspond with Wagner's subtle intentions or optimistic expectations. He continues:\nThe degeneration of the leitmotiv is implicit in this ... it leads directly to cinema music where the sole function of the leitmotiv is to announce heroes or situations so as to allow the audience to orient itself more easily.\n\nThe main ideology behind Leitmotif is to create a sense of attachment to that particular sound that evokes audiences to feel particular emotions when that sound is repeated through the film. Leitmotifs in Adorno's \"degenerated\" sense frequently occur in film scores, and have since the early decades of sound film. One of the first people to implement Leitmotif in early sound films was Fritz Lang in his revolutionary hit \"M\". Lang set the benchmark for sound film through his use of leitmotif, creating a different type of atmosphere in his films.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46207408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46207408", "title": "Lepki–Murkim languages", "text": "Lepki–Murkim languages\n\nThe Lepki–Murkim languages are a pair of apparently related but otherwise isolated languages of New Guinea, Lepki and Murkim.\n\nIn 2007, on a Papuan language website, a Mark Donohue reported that,\nHammarström (2010) is of the opinion that the few lexical similarities with Murkim are likely to be loans, and that Lepki should probably be considered a language isolate; he did not have access to any Kembra data. However, \"Glottolog\" 2.4 (2015), edited by Hammarström, said,\n"}
{"id": "14100405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14100405", "title": "List of Indonesian floral emblems", "text": "List of Indonesian floral emblems\n\nIndonesian floral emblems are Indonesian endemic flora that gain the status as national animal symbol that represent Indonesia and describe Indonesian biodiversity. Next to national floral symbols, there are also more specific provincial floral emblems that represent each respective provinces of Indonesia.\n\nIn addition, Indonesia also recognised Teak as the national tree.\n\nThere are three categories of floral emblem that symbolise Indonesia:\n\n\"Melati putih\" (\"jasminum sambac\"), a small white flower with sweet fragrance, has long been considered as a sacred flower in Indonesian tradition, as it symbolises purity, sacredness, graceful simplicity and sincerity. Although the official adoption were announced only as early as 1990 during World Environment Day and enforced by law through Presidential Decree (\"Keputusan Presiden\") No. 4 1993, the importance of \"Jasminum sambac\" in Indonesian culture predates its official adoption. Since the formation of Indonesian republic during the reign of Sukarno, \"melati putih\" is always unofficially recognised as the national flower of Indonesia. The reverence and the elevated status of this flower mostly due to the importance of \"jasminum sambac\" in Indonesian tradition since ancient times.\n\n\"Melati putih\" is also the most important flower in wedding ceremonies for ethnic Indonesians, especially in the island of Java. Jasmine flower buds that haven't fully opened are usually picked to create strings of jasmine garlands called \"roncen melati\". On wedding days, a traditional Javanese or Sundanese bride's hair is adorned with strings of jasmine garlands arranged as a hairnet to cover the \"konde\" (hair bun). The intricately intertwined strings of jasmine garlands are left to hang loose from the bride's head. The groom's kris is also adorned with five jasmine garlands called \"roncen usus-usus\" (intestine garlands) to refer its intestine-like form and also linked to the legend of Arya Penangsang. In Makassar and Bugis brides, the hair is also adorned with buds of jasmine that resemble pearls. Jasmine is also used as floral offerings for spirits and deities especially among Balinese Hindu, and also often present during funerals.\n\nThe jasmine has wide spectrums in Indonesian traditions; it is the flower of life, beauty and festive wedding, yet it is also often associated with spirit and death. In Indonesian patriotic songs and poems, the fallen \"melati\" often hailed as the representation of fallen heroes that sacrificed their life for the country. The Ismail Marzuki's patriotic song \"Melati di Tapal Batas\" (jasmine on the border) (1947) and Guruh Sukarnoputra's \"Melati Suci\" (sacred jasmine) (1974) clearly refer jasmine as the representation of fallen heroes, the eternally fragrance flower that adorned Ibu Pertiwi (Indonesian national personification). \nThe other two national flowers were chosen for different reasons. Moon Orchid was chosen for its beauty, while the other two rare flowers, \"Rafflesia arnoldii\" and \"Titan arum\" were chosen to demonstrate uniqueness and Indonesian floral biodiversity.\n\nEach of 33 Provinces of Indonesia also have native plants used as floral emblems. This is a list of Indonesian floral emblems, which represent the provinces of Indonesia.\n\n"}
{"id": "50875640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50875640", "title": "Motsoalle", "text": "Motsoalle\n\nMotsoalle is the term for socially acceptable, long-term relationships between Basotho women in Lesotho. \"Motsoalle\" can be translated from Sesotho loosely as \"a very special friend.\" The word, \"motsoalle,\" is used to describe the other woman, as in \"she is my \"motsoalle\";\" and a \"motsoalle\" relationship describes the bond between the two women. \"Motsoalle\" relationships are socially sanctioned, and have often been celebrated by the people of Lesotho. These women's relationships usually occur alongside otherwise conventional heterosexual marriages and may involve various levels of physical intimacy between the female partners. \"Motsoalle\" relationships have, over time, begun to disappear in Lesotho.\n\n\"Motsoalle\" relationships can first be formed between women during adolescence. Often, a \"motsoalle\" relationship was acknowledged publicly with a ritual feast and with the community fully aware of the women's commitment to one another. One anecdote about a \"motsoalle\" relationship describes how one woman, Mpho 'M'atsepho Nthunya, and her husband threw a party in the 1950s to celebrate her \"motsoalle\". Nthunya's account of her relationship with her partner, Malineo, was described to anthropologist K. Limakatso Kendall in a book, \"\" (1997). Judith Gay is another anthropologist to document these relationships, and she discovered they were once very common. Jason Sullivan describes a form of \"motsoalle\" relationships among school girls where it functioned like a type of \"puppy love\" or mentorship. Other anthropologists who have described \"motsoalle\" relationships include Stephen Murray and Will Roscoe.\n\n\"Motsoalle\" relationships differ from a western perspective of queer or lesbian relationships. Women in \"motsoalle\" relationships \"marry men and conform, or appear to conform, to gender expectations.\" Women in these relationships do not have a different social identity even though they are in a committed relationship with another woman. Women in \"motsoalle\" relationships also differ from western ideas of heterosexual female friends. Researcher, William J. Spurlin, stresses that \"it is important not to simply translate into English 'M'atsepo Nthunya's use of the Sesotho word \"motsoalle\" [...] as \"lesbian\".\" Nevertheless, Spurlin does state that \"it might be possible to place \"motsoalle\" relationships on the lesbian continuum to discuss, debate, and imagine them theoretically as possible sites of lesbian existence, given the close emotional and intimate bonds between the women, but with the stipulation that the relationships not be reduced to western understandings of 'lesbian.'\"\n\nPart of the difference between a \"motsoalle\" relationship and a lesbian one is due to the Sesotho notion of sex. Many of the Basotho people of older generations in Lesotho did not consider an act a sex act if one partner was not male. Therefore, anything women did together was not considered sex, even if it involved erotic components. Because of the social situation in rural Lesotho and the lack of a concept of lesbianism, \"motsoalle\" relationships were once widespread, but not seen as an \"alternative to heterosexual marriage.\" Nthunya described it like this: \"When a woman loves another woman, you see, she can love her with a whole heart.\"\n\nAs Lesotho became more modernized, those communities exposed to western culture were also more likely to become exposed to homophobia. Kendall hypothesizes that as Western ideas spread, the idea that women could be sexual with one another, coupled with homophobia, began to erase the \"motsoalle\" relationships. By the 1980s, the ritual feasts that were once celebrated by the community for \"motsoalles\" had vanished. Today, \"motsoalle\" relationships have largely disappeared.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1936074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1936074", "title": "Neogrammarian", "text": "Neogrammarian\n\nThe Neogrammarians (German: \"Junggrammatiker\", 'young grammarians') were a German school of linguists, originally at the University of Leipzig, in the late 19th century who proposed the Neogrammarian hypothesis of the regularity of sound change.\n\nAccording to the Neogrammarian hypothesis, a diachronic sound change affects simultaneously all words in which its environment is met, without exception. Verner's law is a famous example of the Neogrammarian hypothesis, as it resolved an apparent exception to Grimm's law. The Neogrammarian hypothesis was the first hypothesis of sound change to attempt to follow the principle of falsifiability according to scientific method.\n\nSubsequent researchers have questioned this hypothesis from two perspectives. First, adherents of lexical diffusion (where a sound change affects only a few words at first and then gradually spreads to other words) believe that some words undergo changes before others. Second, some believe that it is possible for sound changes to observe grammatical conditioning. Nonetheless, both of these challenges to exceptionlessness remain controversial, and many investigators continue to adhere to the Neogrammarian doctrine.\n\nOther contributions of the Neogrammarians to general linguistics were:\n\n\nLeading Neogrammarian linguists included:\n\n\nDespite their strong influence in their time, the methods and goals of the Neogrammarians have been criticized for reducing the object of investigation to the idiolect; restricting themselves to the description of surface phenomena (sound level); overvaluation of historical languages and neglect of contemporary ones.\n\n"}
{"id": "85534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85534", "title": "Novensiles", "text": "Novensiles\n\nIn ancient Roman religion, the dii (also di) Novensiles or Novensides are collective deities of obscure significance found in inscriptions, prayer formulary, and both ancient and early-Christian literary texts.\n\nIn antiquity, the initial element of the word \"novensiles\" was thought to derive from either \"new\" (\"novus\") or \"nine\" (\"novem\"). The form \"novensides\" has been explained as \"new settlers,\" from \"novus\" and \"insidere\", \"to settle\". The enduringly influential 19th-century scholar Georg Wissowa thought that the \"novensiles\" or \"novensides\" were deities the Romans regarded as imported, that is, not indigenous like the \"di Indigetes\".\n\nAlthough Wissowa treated the categories of \"indigetes\" and \"novensiles\" as a fundamental way to classify Roman gods, the distinction is hard to maintain; many scholars reject it. Arnaldo Momigliano pointed out that no ancient text poses \"novensiles\" and \"indigetes\" as a dichotomy, and that the etymology of \"novensides\" is far from settled. In his treatise on orthography, the 4th-century philosopher Marius Victorinus regarded the spellings \"novensiles\" and \"novensides\" as a simple phonetic alteration of \"l\" and \"d\", characteristic of the Sabine language. Some ancient sources say the \"novensiles\" are nine in number, leading to both ancient and modern identifications with other divine collectives numbering nine, such as the nine Etruscan deities empowered to wield thunder or with the Muses. The name is thus sometimes spelled Novemsiles or Novemsides.\n\nIt may be that only the cults of deities considered indigenous were first established within the sacred boundary of Rome (\"pomerium\"), with \"new\" gods on the Aventine Hill or in the Campus Martius, but it is uncertain whether the terms \"indigetes\" and \"novensiles\" correspond to this topography. William Warde Fowler observed that at any rate a distinction between \"indigenous\" and \"imported\" begins to vanish during the Hannibalic War, when immigrant deities are regularly invoked for the protection of the state.\n\nThe \"novensiles\" are invoked in a list of deities in a prayer formula preserved by the Augustan historian Livy. The prayer is uttered by Decius Mus (consul 340 BC) during the Samnite Wars as part of his vow (\"devotio\") to offer himself as a sacrifice to the infernal gods when a battle between the Romans and the Latins has become desperate. Although Livy was writing at a time when Augustus cloaked religious innovation under appeals to old-fashioned piety and traditionalism, archaic aspects of the prayer suggest that it represents a traditional formulary as might be preserved in the official pontifical books. The other deities invoked — among them the Archaic Triad of Jupiter, Mars, and Quirinus, as well as the Lares and Manes — belong to the earliest religious traditions of Rome. Livy even explains that he will record the archaic ritual of \"devotio\" at length because \"the memory of every human and religious custom has withered from a preference for everything novel and foreign.\" That the \"novensiles\" would appear in such a list at all, and before the \"indigetes\", is surprising if they are \"new.\"\n\nBoth the Lares and the Manes are \"native\" gods often regarded in ancient sources as the deified dead. Servius says that the \"novensiles\" are \"old gods\" who earned numinous status (\"dignitatem numinis\") through their \"virtus\", their quality of character. The early Christian apologist Arnobius notes other authorities who also regarded them as mortals who became gods. In this light, the \"novensiles\", like the Lares and Manes, may be \"concerned with the subterranean world where ancestors were sleeping.\"\n\nThe proliferation of deities among the Romans was mocked by the Church Fathers:\n\nTertullian took a euhemerizing approach in explaining why the gods of the Romans kept multiplying; they were all, he said, merely people (\"homines\") with birthplaces (\"civitatibus, in quibus nati sunt\") and tombs (\"sepulti\"). Arnobius, similarly attempting to demonstrate the logical flaws in the Roman conception of divinity, offers what is perhaps the most extended discussion of the \"novensiles\" in any extant source, and lists seven authorities whose explanations of their identity strike him as mutually exclusive. Several other sources, he notes, say that the \"novensiles\" are people (\"homines\") who have become \"divus\", \"divine\" or \"deified'; among these \"divi\" are Hercules, Romulus, Aesculapius, Liber, and Aeneas.\n\nAccording to Arnobius, a Piso, most likely the Calpurnius Piso Frugi who was an annalist and consul in 133 BC, said that the \"novensiles\" were nine gods whose cult had been established in Sabine country at Trebia. The location has been identified variously as the river Trebbia, Trevi nel Lazio, or one of the places called Trebula in antiquity, two of which — Trebula Mutusca and Trebula Suffenas — are in Sabine territory. Gary Forsythe has conjectured that Piso's family came from the middle Tiber valley, on the border of Etruria and Sabine country, and that he was drawing on personal knowledge. The father of this Piso is probably the L. Calpurnius who dedicated a shrine to Feronia at \"Lucus Feroniae\" near Capena.\n\nVarro, who was himself Sabine, placed the \"Novensides\" in his much-noted catalogue of Sabine deities. Inscriptions in Sabine country mention the \"novensiles\" or \"novensides\", for instance, \"dieu. nove. sede\" at Pisaurum. A Marsian inscription also names the \"novensiles\" without the \"indigetes\". The 19th-century scholar Edward Greswell sought to connect the nine \"novensiles\" of the Sabines to the nundinal cycle, the eight-day \"week\" of the Roman calendar that Roman inclusive counting reckoned as nine days.\n\nA 4th- or 3rd-century BC inscription from Ardea reading \"neven deivo\" has been taken to refer to the Novensiles as nine deities. Granius Flaccus and Aelius Stilo, Arnobius says, identify the \"Novensiles\" with the Muses, implying that they are nine in number. In the Roman tradition, the Muses became identified with the Camenae, the Latin goddesses of fresh-water sources and prophetic inspiration. The two best-known of the Camenae were Carmentis (or Carmenta), who had her own flamen and in whose honor the Carmentalia was held, and Egeria, the divine consort of Numa Pompilius, the second king of Rome considered the founder of Roman law and religion. Numa had established a bronze shrine at the fountain in their grove, the site of his divine union with Egeria. The fountain of the Camenae was a source of water for the Vestals.\n\nThe 5th-century scholar Martianus Capella placed the \"Dii Novensiles\" within his Etruscan-influenced celestial schema in his work \"On the Marriage of Mercury and Philology\", and took their name as meaning \"nine.\" He locates the \"Novensiles\" in the second region of the heavens, with Jove, Mars Quirinus, the \"Military Lar,\" Juno, Fons (\"Fountain\" or \"Source\"), and the Lymphae (fresh-water goddesses).\n\nPliny mentions nine gods of the Etruscans who had the power of wielding thunderbolts, pointing toward Martianus's Novensiles as gods pertaining to the use of thunder and lightning \"(fulgura)\" as signs. Books on how to read lightning were one of the three main branches of the \"disciplina Etrusca\", the body of Etruscan religious and divinatory teachings. Within the Etruscan discipline, Jupiter has the power to wield three types of admonitory lightning \"(manubiae)\" sent from three different celestial regions. The first of these, mild or \"perforating\" lightning, is a beneficial form meant to persuade or dissuade. The other two types are harmful or \"crushing\" lightning, for which Jupiter requires the approval of the Di Consentes, and completely destructive or \"burning\" lighting, which requires the approval of the \"di superiores et involuti\" (hidden gods of the \"higher\" sphere).\n\nSeveral scholars have identified the Novensiles with the council of gods who decide on the use of the third, most destructive type of lightning. Carl Thulin proposed that two theonyms from the Piacenza Liver — a bronze model of a sheep's liver covered with Etruscan inscriptions pertaining to haruspicy — ought to be identified with the two councils, \"Cilens(l)\" with the Novensiles and \"Thufltha(s)\" with the \"Consentes Penates\". The Novensiles would thus correspond to the \"di superiores et involuti\" and possibly the \"Favores Opertanei\" (\"Secret Gods of Favor\") referred to by Martianus Capella. Martianus, however, locates the \"Favores\" in the first region of the sky, with the \"Di Consentes\" and Penates, and the Novensiles in the second; the \"Favores\" are perhaps the \"Fata\", \"Fates\".\n"}
{"id": "43394429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43394429", "title": "Pesme bratstva, detinjstva &amp; potomstva: Antologija ex YU rok poezije 1967 - 2007", "text": "Pesme bratstva, detinjstva &amp; potomstva: Antologija ex YU rok poezije 1967 - 2007\n\nPesme bratstva, detinjstva & potomstva: Antologija ex YU rok poezije 1967 - 2007 (trans. \"Songs of Brotherhood, Childhood & Offspring: Anthology of Ex YU Rock Poetry 1967 - 2007\") is a book by Serbian author, journalist and music critic Petar Janjatović. Published in 2008, the book is the second, expanded edition of Janjatović's 1993 book Pesme bratstva & detinjstva: Antologija rok poezije SFR Jugoslavije 1967 - 1991 (\"Songs of Brotherhood & Childhood: Anthology of Rock Poetry in SFR Yugoslavia 1967 - 1991\"). The book features lyrics by acts from the former Yugoslav rock scene and the scenes of the successor states.\n\nIn the original (1993) introduction, entitled \"Od Osmeha do plavog neba\" (\"From Smile to Blue Sky\", referencing Grupa 220's song \"Osmeh\" and Obojeni Program's track \"Nebo, nebo plavo je\"), Janjatović states his intention of presenting a selection of poetic lyrics written by Yugoslav rock musicians. According to the author, the appearance of poetic lyrics in Yugoslav rock occurred right away with the release of the first full-length Yugoslav rock album — Grupa 220's \"Naši dani\" (\"Our Days\") — despite the fact that during the 1960s and early 1970s the poets among Yugoslav rock lyricists were still few and far between. In Janjatović's opinion, it wasn't until punk rock and new wave took root in the country that Yugoslav acts made artistic rock lyrics imperative.\n\nAdditionally, Janjatović stated:\nIn the 2008 addendum to the original introduction, Janjatović wrote:\n\nIn a 2012 interview, Janjatović was asked why there are no Đorđe Balašević lyrics in the book. Janjatović answered:\n\n"}
{"id": "52380560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52380560", "title": "Platform cooperative", "text": "Platform cooperative\n\nA platform cooperative, or platform co-op, is a cooperatively owned, democratically governed business that establishes a computing platform, and uses a website, mobile app or a protocol to facilitate the sale of goods and services. Platform cooperatives are an alternative to venture capital funded platforms insofar as they are owned and governed by those who depend on them most—workers, users, and other relevant stakeholders. Proponents of platform cooperativism claim that, by ensuring the financial and social value of a platform circulate among these participants, platform cooperatives will bring about a more equitable and fair digitally mediated economy in contrast with the extractive models of corporate intermediaries. Platform cooperatives differ from traditional cooperatives not only due to their use of digital technologies, but also by their contribution to the commons for the purpose of fostering an equitable social and economic landscape.\n\nPlatform cooperativism draws upon other attempts at digital disintermediation, including the peer-to-peer production movement, led by Michel Bauwens, Vasilis Kostakis and the P2P Foundation, which advocates for \"new kinds of democratic and economic participation\" that rest \"upon the free participation of equal partners, engaged in the production of common resources,\" as well as the radically distributed, non-market mechanisms of networked peer-production promoted by Yochai Benkler. Marjorie Kelly's book \"Owning Our Future\" contributed the distinction between democratic and extractive ownership design to this discussion.\n\nWhile there is no commonly accepted typology of platform cooperatives, researchers often ontologize platform cooperatives by industry. Some potential categories include: transportation, on-demand labor, journalism, music, creative projects, timebank, film, home health care, photography, data cooperatives, marketplaces. Other typologies differentiate platform cooperatives by their governance or ownership structures.\n\nMany platform co-operatives use business models similar to better-known apps or web services, but with a cooperative structure. For example, there are numerous driver-owned taxi apps that allow customers to submit trip requests and notify the nearest driver, similar to Uber.\n\nThe Internet of Ownership website includes a directory of the platform co-op \"ecosystem\".\n\nFairbnb is an online marketplace and hospitality service for people to lease or rent short-term lodging. Foremost, it is also a community of activists, coders, researchers and designers working to create the platform to enable hosts and guests to connect for travel and cultural exchange, while minimizing the cost to communities. It is an alternative to commercial platforms.\n\nFairmondo is an online marketplace for ethical goods and services, that originated from Germany and has expanded to the UK. Joining as a stakeholder is open for all and the minimum share is limited to an affordable amount, with stakeholders exercising a democratic control through one-member-one-vote principle. It is a cooperative alternative to Amazon and Ebay.\n\nGreen Taxi Cooperative is the largest taxi company in the Denver metro area. Organized by the Communications Workers of America Local 7777, its members buy into the cooperative for a one-time membership fee of $2000 and then pay fees amounting to a \"fraction\" of what large companies charge drivers. Despite having a mobile application through which riders can schedule pickups, and thus competing directly with ride-hailing applications like Uber and Lyft, as of November 2016 the Green Taxi Cooperative reportedly held 37% market share in Denver.\n\nLoconomics is a worker-owned, US-based, online and mobile marketplace that allows customers to find freelance labor to small, everyday tasks, such as babysitting or pet care. Instead of charging a commission, joining as an owner is open for all for a monthly ownership fee, which also allows the members to vote or stand as a candidate for the co-operatives board of executives.\n\nMidata is a cooperatively owned, Zurich-based, online platform that seeks to serve as an exchange for members' medical data. Using an open-source application, members are able to securely share their medical data with doctors, friends, and researchers, and are provided access to \"data analysis, visualization and interpretation tools.\" Members can also consent to their data's use in medical research and clinical trials. In a pilot project, post-bariatric-surgery patients are able to upload data to the platform, including their weight and daily step count, and follow their own post-surgery progress.\n\nStocksy United is a platform cooperative headquartered in Victoria, British Columbia. It is a \"highly curated collection of royalty-free stock photography and video footage that is 'beautiful, distinctive, and highly usable.'\" Stocksy's website says, describing its ethos, \"We believe in creative integrity, fair profit sharing, and co-ownership, with every voice being heard,\" which has been claimed to be \"a tribute to the operating ethos of any Platform Cooperative.\" In 2015, Stocksy earned $7.9 million in sales—doubling its revenues from the year prior—and paid a dividend of $200,000 to its members.\n\nThe RChain Cooperative is a Washington state cooperative formed in order to design and develop the open-source Blockchain 3.0 platform RChain, and its Smart Contract language Rholang. The governance of the cooperative, including decisions related to the platform and its tokens, are determined through a 1 Member 1 Vote system, as well as a Board of Directorship and Governance Committees that are currently experimenting with sociocracy.\n\nUp & Go is a digital marketplace for professional home services that allows users to schedule services such as house cleaning, dog walking, and handywork with worker-owned businesses that have fair work practices. The platform is meant to help cooperatives \"build the critical membership mass needed to create a viable cooperative organization.\" Developed by the Center for Family Life in Sunset Park, in conjunction with Colab Cooperative, the Robinhood Foundation, New York City Worker Cooperatives, and Barclays Bank, Up & Go is a collaboration between community-based organizations, tech developers, philanthropic funders, and worker cooperatives in New York City.\n\nresonate.is music stream coop\n\nPlatform Cooperativism is an intellectual framework and movement which advocates for the global development of platform cooperatives. Its advocates object to the techno-solutionist claim that technology is, by default, the answer to all social problems. Rather, proponents of the movement claim that ethical commitments such as the building of the global commons, support of inventive unions, and promotion of ecological and social sustainability as well as social justice, are necessary to shape an equitable and fair social economy. Platform cooperativism advocates for the coexistence of cooperatively owned business models and traditional, extractive models with the goal of a more diversified digital labor landscape respecting fair working conditions.\n\nWhile platform cooperatives are structured as cooperatives, granting democratic control to workers, customers, users, or other key stakeholders, companies and initiatives that support the ecosystem of the cooperative platform economy are considered a part of the platform cooperativism movement insofar as they attempt to encourage, develop, and sustain its development. It has also been argued that, as the spread of platform cooperativism \"will require a different kind of ecosystem -- with appropriate forms of finance, law, policy, and culture -- to support the development of democratic online enterprises,\" any person or business associated with the development of this ecosystem can be considered a proponent of platform cooperativism.\n\nThe term \"platform cooperativism\" was coined by New School professor Trebor Scholz in a 2014 article titled, \"Platform Cooperativism vs. the Sharing Economy\", in which he criticized popular sharing economy platforms and called for the creation of democratically controlled cooperative alternatives that \"allow workers to exchange their labor without the manipulation of the middleman.\" Shortly thereafter, journalist Nathan Schneider published an article, \"Owning Is the New Sharing\", which documented a variety of projects using cooperative models for digitally mediated commerce, as well as online, distributed funding-models which hoped to replace the venture-capital model predominant in the technology sector. Both Scholz and Schneider would later credit the work and provocations of other researchers and digital-labor advocates as their inspiration, including, among others, lawyer Janelle Orsi of the Sustainable Economies Law Center, who had \"called on technology companies in the sharing economy to share ownership and profits with their users,\" and Amazon Mechanical Turk organizer Kristy Milland who had proposed a worker-owned alternative to the platform at the \"Digital Labor: Sweatshops, Picket Lines, Barricades\" conference in November 2014.\n\nThere are several other precursors to platform cooperativism. In 2012, the Italian cooperative federation Legacoop promulgated a manifesto on the \"Cooperative Commons,\" which called for bringing the lessons of the cooperative movement to control over online data. The same year Mayo Fuster Morell published an article named \"horizons of digital commons\" in which she pointed to the evolution of commons-based peer production merging with cooperatives and the social economy. The article reflects on an event named Building Digital commons, which took place in October 2011. It was the goal of the event to further connect the cooperative tradition and collaborative production. Other previous similar terms on new forms of cooperativism such as \"open cooperativism\" and also studies of how the digital environment opens up new possibilities for the cooperative tradition are of relevance to the new term platform cooperativism.\n\nIn 2015, Scholz published a primer on platform cooperativism, \"Platform Cooperativism: Challenging the Corporate Sharing Economy\", which was published in five languages and helped to internationalize the concept. In 2016, he published \"Uberworked and Underpaid: How Workers Are Disrupting the Digital Economy\", which further developed the concept. Together, Scholz and Schneider went on to convene an event on the subject, \"Platform Cooperativism. The Internet. Ownership. Democracy\", at The New School in November 2015, and edit a book, \"Ours to Hack and to Own: The Rise of Platform Cooperativism, a New Vision for the Future of Work and a Fairer Internet\".\n\nThe concept of platform cooperativism emerged from the discourse surrounding digital labor, popular in the late 2000s and early 2010s, which critiqued the use of digitally mediated labor markets to evade traditional labor protections. Early studies of digital labor, using the theories of Italian Workerists, focused on the \"free\" or \"immaterial\" labor performed by users of Web 2.0 platforms (sometimes referred to as \"playbor\"), while later analyses served to critique the \"crowd fleecing\" of digital laborers by microtask labor-brokerages such as Amazon Mechanical Turk and Crowdflower.\n\nIn 2014, the digital labor discourse shifted to the so-called \"sharing economy\", resulting in an increase in both academic and media attention to the practices and policies of online markets for labor, services, and goods. Researchers and labor advocates argued that platforms such as Uber and TaskRabbit were unfairly classifying full-time workers as independent contractors rather than employees, thus avoiding legally granted labor protections such as minimum-wage laws and the right to join a union with which to engage in collective bargaining, as well as different benefits offered to workers with employee status, including time off, unemployment insurance, and healthcare.\n\nOther research focused on the automated management of the digital workplace by algorithms, without worker recourse. For example, the wage-per-mile by drivers on the Uber platform is controlled moment-to-moment by a surge pricing algorithm, and its drivers can lose their jobs if they fall behind any one of a number of metrics logged by the platform including ride-acceptance percentage (minimum 90%) and customer-rating (4.7 out of 5). Sharing economy workers who complained about this algorithmic management were often ignored, (e.g. a TaskRabbit discussion forum was shut down in response to worker unrest) and sometimes told that, insofar as the platform owners do not employ their contracted labor force, they were not actually being managed by the technology companies behind the platforms on which they worked.\n\nInsofar as platform cooperatives offer worker-owners a more robust degree of control of the platforms they use, the model was seen as offering an ethical alternative to existing sharing economy platforms. As these early critiques of the sharing economy remain relevant, platform cooperatives tend to highlight their efforts to provide their worker-owners with a living wage or a fair share of revenues, benefits, control over the platform's design, and democratic influence over the management of the cooperative business.\n\nThe platform cooperativism movement has seen a number of global policy proposals and successes.\n\nBarcelona has a long tradition of connecting cooperativism and collaborative production. Already on 30 of October 2011, it was celebrated an event in order to \"Promoting the dialogue between the cooperative tradition and digital commons\".\n\nThe Social Economy and Consumption Commission of the Barcelona City Council in 2015 started a program on platform cooperativism. The program includes the provision of match funding to support entrepreneurship, and \"La Communificadora\" an entrepreneurship training and support course, among others. \nA March 2016 international event by BarCola (node about Collaborative Economy and Commons Based Peer Production in Barcelona) produced a set of 120 policy proposals for European governments. Integrated as concrete actions for the Municipal Action Plan of the Barcelona City Council, following a consultative online participatory process, as well as aiming at other local authorities in Spain and the Government of Catalonia, the resulting document criticized the organizational rationale of \"multinational corporations based in Silicon Valley\" which, though similar to collaborative-Commons economic models, \"behave in the style of the prevailing globalized capitalist economic model, based on extracting profits through networked collaboration\".\n\nThat joint statement of public policies for the collaborative economy, which integrates a Commons-oriented vision in such emerging paradigm, claimed that by privatizing certain aspects of the collaborative Commons model these companies created \"severe inequalities and loss of rights\". The organization and participants at the event proposed the creation of favorable regulations for truly collaborative economic models, with measures like the funding of an incubator of new projects in the collaborative economy, including platform cooperativism, as well as the reassigning of public spaces for jointly managed working and manufacturing spaces. Embed in a wider framework of action research for the co-design of public policies, some of these policy proposals have been met with support by members of the Barcelona city government. Outputs from that process have resulted in specific measures like the incubation of new collaborative economy initiatives following a cooperativist model, or the possibility of new funding schemes for civic projects via transparent \"match-funding\".\n\nNYC Council Member Brad Lander of Brooklyn's 39th District, founding co-chair of the Council's Progressive Caucus, released a report in 2016 entitled, \"Raising the Floor for Workers in the Gig Economy: Tools for NYC & Beyond,\" which analyzes the contingent work sector in New York City and \"presents policy tools for cities seeking to protect gig workers from wage theft and discrimination, provide access to portable benefits, and establish new frameworks for worker organizing.\" Under his leadership, the NYC Council unanimously passed the \"Freelance Isn't Free Act,\" which provides freelance workers with a right to full and timely payment, along with new tools for enforcement, and amendments to the NYC Human Rights law to clarify that employment protections apply to independent and contingent workers. In his report, NYC Council Member Brad Lander presented platform cooperativism as a model to help laborers in the digital economy.\n\nThe US Department of Agriculture appeared to offer its support for the platform cooperativism movement with a feature story in the September/October 2016 issue of its magazine, Rural Cooperatives.\n\n\"Rural Americans have been organizing cooperatives to develop countervailing economic power against larger investor-owned corporations for more than a century. This cooperative movement has now moved into the sharing economy that has been developing throughout the country. Wherever investor-owners of software platforms are satisfying the needs of rural asset owners and users, the sharing economy will be welcomed. However, when need arises, cooperatively owned software platforms are proving to be a viable alternative.\"\n\nIn 2016, Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the Labour Party and the Opposition in the United Kingdom, released a digital democracy manifesto calling for, among other progressive policies, the fostering of \"the cooperative ownership of digital platforms for distributing labour and selling services.\" He proposed that the National Investment Bank, as well as regional banks, would \"finance social enterprises whose websites and apps are designed to minimise the costs of connecting producers with consumers in the transport, accommodation, cultural, catering and other important sectors of the British economy.\"\n\nPlatform Cooperativism Consortium (PCC)\n\nThe Platform Cooperativism Consortium is a \"think-and-do tank\" for the platform cooperativism movement based at The New School in New York City. As a \"global network of researchers, platform co-ops, independent software developers, artists, designers, lawyers, activists, publishing outlets, and funders,\" it engages in research, advocacy, education, and technology-based projects. It was launched in November 2016 at the occasion of the \"Building the Cooperative Internet\" conference.\n\nThe Internet of Ownership\n\nThe Internet of Ownership is a website which maintains a global directory of platform cooperatives and a calendar of events concerning the platform cooperativism movement. It is maintained by Nathan Schneider and Devin Balkind.\n\nIn September 2016, Nathan Schneider wrote the article \"Here's my plan to save Twitter: let's buy it\" in which he asked \"What if users were to band together and buy Twitter for themselves?\" Once in user hands, Schneider suggested, Twitter could be turned into a platform co-op.\n\nSome critics of platform cooperativism claim that platform cooperatives will have trouble challenging established, venture-capital-funded platforms. Nick Srnicek writes that, due to \"the monopolistic nature of platforms, the dominance of network effects, and the vast resources behind these companies … even if all that software would be made open-source, a platform like Facebook would still have the weight of its existing data, network effects, and financial resources to fight off any co-op arrival.\" Rufus Pollock expresses similar concerns that platform coops will face major challenges reaching adequate scale, particularly given their inability to raise traditional equity capital. In addition, he argues that coops often have slow and inefficient decision-making processes which will hamper them in their ability to compete successfully. Finally, he points out there is the risk that platform coops will go \"bad\" becoming an exclusive club for their members (for example, a ride-sharing coop might end up controlled only by drivers who then exploit consumers). Evgeny Morozov writes that \"Efforts at platform cooperativism are worthwhile; occasionally, they do produce impressive and ethical local projects. There is no reason why a cooperative of drivers in a small town cannot build an app to help them beat Uber locally. But there is also no good reason to believe that this local cooperative can actually build a self-driving car: this requires massive investment and a dedicated infrastructure to harvest and analyse all of the data. One can, of course, also create data ownership cooperatives but it's unlikely they will scale to a point of competing with Google or Amazon.\"\n\nWhile this may be true in certain sectors, Arun Sundararajan claims that, \"Economic theory suggests that worker cooperatives are more efficient than shareholder corporations when there isn't a great deal of diversity in the levels of contribution across workers, when the level of external competition is low, and when there isn't the need for frequent investments in response to technological change.\" Using Uber as an example of a dominant platform, he continues: \"Cab drivers, after all, offer a more or less uniform service in an industry with a limited amount of competition. Once the technology associated with 'e-hail' is commoditized, the potential for a worker cooperative appears to be in place, since each local market is contestable.\"\n\nRegardless, the possibility of dominant platforms turning the flows of data they receive from their larger user-bases into market-securing technological innovations remains a challenge. For example, Uber seeks to use the data they currently collect from drivers using their app to automate the taxi industry, thus eliminating the need for their workforce altogether and likely dropping the value of a ride below that on which a human laborer can survive.\n\nThough Sundararajan believes there are markets in which platform cooperatives might thrive, he finds their primary barrier to entry to be the initial securing of funds, especially given their ideological devaluation of the need to generate profits for investor-stakeholders. He does note, however, that a number of alternative fundraising models may pave the way for the widespread market-entry of platform cooperatives. Among those he mentions is Fairshare, a stakeholder model which differentiates between founders, workers, users, and investors, each with distinct voting rights, payouts, and permissions to trade shares on the open market. Other models he mentions include crypto-coin crowdfunding, philanthropic investment, and \"provider stock ownership programs\" that mimic the traditional joint-ownership form of the \"employee stock ownership program.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57760149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57760149", "title": "Proto-Kam–Sui language", "text": "Proto-Kam–Sui language\n\nThe Proto-Kam–Sui language is the reconstructed ancestor of the Kam–Sui languages.\n\nA preliminary of reconstruction of Proto-Kam–Sui had been undertaken by Graham Thurgood (1988).\n\nAnother reconstruction of Proto-Kam-Sui, mostly based on Thurgood's reconstruction, was accomplished by Ilia Peiros as part of his reconstruction of Tai-Kadai, which was done without taking the Kra languages into account.\n\nA new reconstruction of Proto-Kam-Sui is currently being undertaken by Peter Norquest.\n\nLiang & Zhang (1996) consider western Guangdong to be the original homeland of Proto-Kam-Sui. According to Liang & Zhang (1996:25-29), based on evidence from Chinese written historical records, Kam-Sui languages were originally spoken in western Guangdong, but Kam-Sui peoples later started to migrate out of Guangdong during the Sui Dynasty and Tang Dynasty (from the years 600-800). Sui and Maonan migrations were completed by the Song Dynasty, around the years 1000-1100, while the Lakkia migrated to their current location in Guangxi from Huaiji County and Fengkai County, Guangdong during the beginning of the Ming Dynasty (years 1300-1400).\n\nThurgood's (1988: 209-218) reconstructed Proto-Kam-Sui forms are listed below.\n"}
{"id": "1189161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1189161", "title": "Pyramids of Mars", "text": "Pyramids of Mars\n\nPyramids of Mars is the third serial of the 13th season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts on BBC1 from 25 October to 15 November 1975.\n\nThe serial is set in England and Egypt and on Mars in 1911. In the serial, the burial chamber of the alien Osiran Sutekh (Gabriel Woolf), the inspiration for the Egyptian god Set, is unearthed by the archaeology professor Marcus Scarman (Bernard Archard). Alive but immobilised, Sutekh seeks his freedom by using Professor Scarman as his servant to destroy the jewel on a pyramid on Mars which is keeping him prisoner.\n\nIn 1911 Egypt, an archaeology professor Marcus Scarman excavates a pyramid and finds the door to the burial chamber is inscribed with the Eye of Horus. His Egyptian assistants flee in fear as he entered the chamber alone and is hit by a beam of green light. The Doctor, intended to land in UNIT's base, ends up in the basement of an English estate after the TARDIS was forced out of its flight path as Sarah sees an apparition of a Typhonian Animal in the console room. The two are found by the butler, who reveals they are in the Scarman estate which has been taken over by a mysterious Egyptian named Ibrahim Namin claiming to represent Scarman's estate, Scarman's friend Dr Warlock confronting him over foul play. When Namin sends a robot dressed like an Egyptian mummy after them and Warlock, they reach a hunting lodge used by Scarman's brother Laurence, whose marconiscope intercepted a signal from Mars. The Doctor decodes the signal as \"Beware Sutekh\", explaining to Sarah that Sutekh is the last of a powerful alien race called the Osirans, his imprisonment by his brother Horus being the inspiration for ancient Egyptian mythology.\n\nNamin and the mummies greet the arrival of Sutekh's servant who travels to the priory via a spacetime tunnel portal disguised assarcophagus, the servant killing Namin for serving his purpose. The servant is revealed to be Marcus Scarman, whom the Doctor realizes is a corpse animated by Sutekh's will. As Scarman and the robots secure the estate's perimeter while killing off anyone they find like Warlock before constructing an Osirian war missile aimed for Mars, Doctor disrupts the tunnel using the TARDIS key before retrieving Namin's ring from his corpse. Hiding in the TARDIS, Sarah suggests they should just leave with the Doctor briefly taking them to 1980 to show what becomes of Earth if they allow Sutekh to escape.\nOnce back in 1911, the Doctor makes a jamming unit with Namin's ring to break Sutekh's hold over those animated by his will including Scarman, causing Laurence to attempt stopping him from activating the device. The robots chasing after the groundskeeper Clements kill him before they overrun the hunting lodge, one shutting down after destroying the machine while Sarah uses Namin's ring to send the other back to Scarman. The Doctor decides to blow up the partially assembled rocket, Laurence suggesting the blasting gelignite kept in Clements's hut. The Doctor and Sarah leave to obtain the gelignite, ordering Laurence to strip the bindings from the deactivated robot. When Scarman arrives, Laurence attempts to rekindle his brother's humanity and ends up being killed. After he and Sarah return, the Doctor disguises himself under the robot's binding to set up the explosives before he and Sarah detonate them. But Sutekh telekinetically suppresses the explosion, forcing the Doctor to use space-time tunnel to reach Sutekh and break his concentration for the explosion to run its course. A furious Sutekh interrogates the Doctor before decides to turn him into a thrall to transport Scarman to a Martian pyramid to destroy the Eye of Horus which maintains his prison. \n\nThough strangled once serving his purpose, the Doctor survived through his respiratory bypass system as he and Sarah follow Scarman through a series of locked chambers which are dependent upon solving logical and philosophical puzzles. While the Doctor is unable to stop Scarman from destroying the Eye, Scarman decaying to dust, he realizes that Sutekh would not be released for two minutes due to the time of the Eye's signal traveling from Mars to Earth. The Doctor returns to the Priory and use a module from the TARDIS on Sutekh as he was traveling the space-time tunnel, subjecting the Osirian to rapid aging until his\nbody dissolves once aged passed 11,000 years. But the Doctor's action causes the portal to overload with him and Sarah fleeing into the TARDIS as the priory is consumed in flames.\n\nSarah wears a dress which the Doctor says belonged to Victoria. She remarks that the puzzles are similar to those in the Exxilon City in \"Death to the Daleks\" (1974), although she personally never entered the City.\n\nThe story as originally written by Lewis Greifer was considered unworkable. As Greifer was unavailable to perform rewrites, the scripts were completely rewritten by Robert Holmes. The pseudonym used on transmission was Stephen Harris. \"Pyramids of Mars\" contributes to the UNIT dating controversy, one of the contradictions in the \"Doctor Who\" universe.\n\nThe exterior scenes were shot on the Stargroves estate in Hampshire, a Victorian mansion noted for its ornate, Gothic revival style of architecture which was owned by Mick Jagger at the time. The same location would be used during the filming of \"Image of the Fendahl\" (1977). The new TARDIS console, which debuted in the preceding story \"Planet of Evil\", does not appear again until \"The Invisible Enemy\" (1977). Owing to the cost of setting up the TARDIS console room for the filming of only a handful of scenes, a new console set was designed for the following season. Tom Baker and Elisabeth Sladen improvised a number of moments in this story, most notably a scene in Part Four where the Doctor and Sarah start to walk out of their hiding place and then when they see a mummy, quickly dart back into it. Baker based the scene on a Marx Brothers routine.\n\nSeveral scenes were deleted from the final broadcast. A model shot of the TARDIS landing in the landscape of a barren, alternative 1980 Earth was to be used in Part Two, but director Paddy Russell decided viewers would feel more impact if the first scene of the new Earth was Sarah's reaction as the TARDIS doors opened. Three scenes of effects such as doors opening and the Doctor materializing from the sarcophagus were removed from the final edit of Part Four because Russell felt the mixes were not good enough. These scenes were included on the DVD, along with an alternate version of the poacher being hunted down in Part Two, and a full version of the Osiran rocket explosion.\n\nAlthough the name of Sutekh's race is pronounced \"Osiran\" throughout the serial, the scripts and publicity material spell it as \"Osirian\" in some places and as \"Osiran\" in others.\n\nThe story features a guest appearance by Michael Sheard; he was cast by director Paddy Russell without any audition, purely on the recommendation of production assistant Peter Grimwade. Sheard previously featured in \"The Ark\" (1966) and \"The Mind of Evil\" (1971) and would later appear in \"The Invisible Enemy\" (1977), \"Castrovalva\" (1982) and \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" (1988). Bernard Archard previously played Bragen in \"The Power of the Daleks\" (1966). Michael Bilton previously played Teligny in \"The Massacre of St Bartholomew's Eve\" (1966). George Tovey was the father of Roberta Tovey, who appeared as Susan in the films \"Dr. Who and the Daleks\" (1965) and \"Daleks' Invasion Earth 2150 A.D.\" (1966).\n\nGabriel Woolf reprised his role as Sutekh in the \"Faction Paradox\" audio dramas \"Coming to Dust\" (2005), \"The Ship of a Billion Years\" (2006), \"Body Politic\" (2008), \"Words from Nine Divinities\" (2008), \"Ozymandias\" (2009) and \"The Judgment of Sutekh\" (2009), from Magic Bullet Productions and in \"The New Adventures of Bernice Summerfield: The Judgement of Sutekh\" for Big Finish Productions. He also provided the voice of Sutekh for the comedy sketch \"Oh Mummy: Sutekh's Story\", included on the DVD release of \"Pyramids of Mars\". Woolf would go on to provide the voice of The Beast in the 2006 episodes \"The Impossible Planet\" and \"The Satan Pit\". He also provided the voice of Governor Rossitor in the Big Finish audio plays \"Arrangements for War\" and \"Thicker than Water\".\n\nThe story was edited and condensed into a single, one-hour omnibus episode, broadcast on BBC1 at 5:50 pm on 27 November 1976, reaching 13.7 million viewers, the highest audience achieved by Doctor Who in its entire history to date. The figure was not bettered until the broadcast of \"City of Death\" in 1979. BBC2 broadcast the four episodes on consecutive Sundays from 6–27 March 1994 at noon, reaching 1.1, 1.1, 0.9 & 1.0 million viewers respectively.\n\nPaul Cornell, Martin Day, and Keith Topping gave the serial a positive review in \"The Discontinuity Guide\" (1995), praising the \"chilling\" adversary and some of the conversations. In \"The Television Companion\" (1998), David J. Howe and Stephen James Walker described the first episode as \"an excellent scene-setter\" and the story as \"near-flawless\". They wrote that \"Pyramids of Mars\" gave the \"fullest expression\" of the Gothic horror era and had high production values and a good guest cast. In 2010, Patrick Mulkern of \"Radio Times\" called it \"a bona fide classic\" with \"arguably the most polished production to date\", and praised the powerful plot. However, he disliked how UNIT was dismissed in the season, and found \"minor, amusing quibbles\" with the plot. Charlie Jane Anders of io9 described \"Pyramids of Mars\" as \"just a lovely, solid adventure story\", highlighting the way the Doctor seemed outmatched, the pace, and Sarah Jane. In a 2010 article, Anders also listed the cliffhanger to the third episode — in which the Doctor is forced to confront Sutekh — as one of the greatest \"Doctor Who\" cliffhangers ever. In a 2014 \"Doctor Who Magazine\" poll to determine the best \"Doctor Who\" stories of all time, readers voted \"Pyramids of Mars\" to eighth place.\n\nThe writer John Kenneth Muir was critical of the serial, querying the Egyptian mythology conceit that is woven through the whole story; he questioned a number of apparently illogical story elements, such as why the robots that guard the priory were disguised as Egyptian mummies, and why the Osiran rocket was shaped as a pyramid. In his assessment, the use of ancient Egyptian objects and symbols by the Osiran race was inadequately explained in the script, and he contrasted the \"Pyramids of Mars\" unfavourably with \"Stargate\", a 1994 television series which relied heavily on the concept of ancient astronauts visiting Earth. Muir traced parallels with earlier \"Doctor Who\" serials such as \"The Dæmons\" (1971) and \"Terror of the Zygons\" (1975) which had also drawn on the idea of ancient Earth mythologies having extraterrestrial origins. Like \"The Dæmons\" and \"Tomb of the Cybermen\" (1967), \"Pyramids of Mars\" exploited many familiar conventions of classic mummy films, but less successfully in Muir's view.\n\nJohn J Johnston, vice-chair of the Egypt Exploration Society, explored the influences on the \"Pyramids of Mars\" in the \"Encyclopedia of Mummies in History, Religion, and Popular Culture\". He argued that the story drew heavily on a number of classic horror films such as Boris Karloff's \"The Mummy\" (1932) and Hammer Films' \"The Mummy\" (1959), in its setting and the performance of the actors. Johnston also noted the influences of archaeology on the production design. According to Johnston, the robot mummies designed by the BBC's Barbara Kidd were inspired by an ancient rock painting of a mysterious domed-headed figure that had been discovered by Henri Lhote in the Sahara Desert in the 1950s, and which Lhote had nicknamed \"the Great Martian God\". Similarly, he considered Sutekh's mask to have been modelled on a dating from c.3500 BCE that had been excavated at Gebelein by in 1908.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Terrance Dicks, was published by Target Books in December 1976. The novelisation contains a substantial prologue giving the history of Sutekh and the Osirans and features an epilogue in which a future Sarah researches the destruction of the Priory and how it was explained. An unabridged reading of the novelisation by actor Tom Baker was released on CD in August 2008 by BBC Audiobooks.\n\nThe story first came out on VHS and Betamax in an omnibus format in February 1985. It was subsequently released in episodic format in April 1994. It was released on DVD in the United Kingdom on 1 March 2004. It was also released on 31 October 2011 as an extra on \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\" Series 4 DVD and Blu-ray boxset as a tribute to Elisabeth Sladen who had died earlier in the year.\n\nIn 2013 it was released on DVD again as part of the \"Doctor Who: The Doctors Revisited 1–4\" box set, alongside \"The Aztecs\", \"Tomb of the Cybermen\" and \"Spearhead from Space\". Alongside a documentary on the Fourth Doctor, the disc features the serial put together as a single feature in widescreen format with an introduction from current show runner Steven Moffat, as well as its original version.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1014170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1014170", "title": "Ratio Club", "text": "Ratio Club\n\nThe Ratio Club was a small informal dining club of young psychiatrists, psychologists, physiologists, mathematicians and engineers who met to discuss issues in cybernetics.\n\nThe idea of the club arose from a symposium on animal behaviour held in July 1949 by the Society of Experimental Biology in Cambridge. The club was founded by the neurologist John Bates, with other notable members such as W. Ross Ashby.\n\nThe name \"Ratio\" was suggested by Albert Uttley, it being the Latin root meaning \"computation or the faculty of mind which calculates, plans and reasons\". He pointed out that it is also the root of \"rationarium\", meaning a statistical account, and \"ratiocinatius\", meaning argumentative. The use was probably inspired by an earlier suggestion by Donald Mackay of the 'MR club', from \"Machina ratiocinatrix\", a term used by Norbert Wiener in the introduction to his then recently published book \"Cybernetics, or Control and Communication in the Animal and the Machine\". Wiener used the term in reference to \"calculus ratiocinator\", a calculating machine constructed by Leibniz.\n\nThe initial membership was William Ross Ashby, Horace Barlow, John Bates, George Dawson, Thomas Gold, W. E. Hick, Victor Little, Donald MacKay, Turner McLardy, P. A. Merton, John Pringle, Harold Shipton, Donald Sholl, Eliot Slater, Albert Uttley, W. Grey Walter and John Hugh Westcott. Alan Turing joined after the first meeting with I. J. Good, Philip Woodward and William Rushton added soon after. Giles Brindley was also a member for a short period.\n\nThe club was the most intellectually powerful and influential cybernetics grouping in the UK, and many of its members went on to become extremely prominent scientists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25447", "title": "Rhetoric", "text": "Rhetoric\n\nRhetoric is the art of using language to convince or persuade. Aristotle defines rhetoric as \"the faculty of observing in any given case the available means of persuasion\" and since mastery of the art was necessary for victory in a case at law or for passage of proposals in the assembly or for fame as a speaker in civic ceremonies, calls it \"a combination of the science of logic and of the ethical branch of politics\". Rhetoric typically provides heuristics for understanding, discovering, and developing arguments for particular situations, such as Aristotle's three persuasive audience appeals, logos, pathos, and ethos. The five canons of rhetoric or phases of developing a persuasive speech were first codified in classical Rome: invention, arrangement, style, memory, and delivery.\n\nFrom Ancient Greece to the late 19th century, rhetoric, which along with grammar and logic (or dialectic – see Martianus Capella) is one of the three ancient arts of discourse, played a central role in Western education in training orators, lawyers, counsellors, historians, statesmen, and poets.\n\nScholars have debated the scope of rhetoric since ancient times. Although some have limited rhetoric to the specific realm of political discourse, many modern scholars liberate it to encompass every aspect of culture. Contemporary studies of rhetoric address a much more diverse range of domains than was the case in ancient times. While classical rhetoric trained speakers to be effective persuaders in public forums and institutions such as courtrooms and assemblies, contemporary rhetoric investigates human discourse writ large. Rhetoricians have studied the discourses of a wide variety of domains, including the natural and social sciences, fine art, religion, journalism, digital media, fiction, history, cartography, and architecture, along with the more traditional domains of politics and the law. Many contemporary approaches treat rhetoric as human communication that includes purposeful and strategic manipulation of symbols. Public relations, lobbying, law, marketing, professional and technical writing, and advertising are modern professions that employ rhetorical practitioners.\n\nBecause the ancient Greeks highly valued public political participation, rhetoric emerged as a crucial tool to influence politics. Consequently, rhetoric remains associated with its political origins. However, even the original instructors of Western speech—the Sophists—disputed this limited view of rhetoric. According to the Sophists, such as Gorgias, a successful rhetorician could speak convincingly on any topic, regardless of his experience in that field. This method suggested rhetoric could be a means of communicating any expertise, not just politics. In his \"Encomium to Helen\", Gorgias even applied rhetoric to fiction by seeking for his own pleasure to prove the blamelessness of the mythical Helen of Troy in starting the Trojan War.\n\nLooking to another key rhetorical theorist, Plato defined the scope of rhetoric according to his negative opinions of the art. He criticized the Sophists for using rhetoric as a means of deceit instead of discovering truth. In \"Gorgias\", one of his Socratic Dialogues, Plato defines rhetoric as the persuasion of ignorant masses within the courts and assemblies. Rhetoric, in Plato's opinion, is merely a form of flattery and functions similarly to cookery, which masks the undesirability of unhealthy food by making it taste good. Thus, Plato considered any speech of lengthy prose aimed at flattery as within the scope of rhetoric.\n\nAristotle both redeemed rhetoric from his teacher and narrowed its focus by defining three genres of rhetoric—deliberative, forensic or judicial, and epideictic. Yet, even as he provided order to existing rhetorical theories, Aristotle extended the definition of rhetoric, calling it the ability to identify the appropriate means of persuasion in a given situation, thereby making rhetoric applicable to all fields, not just politics. When one considers that rhetoric included torture (in the sense that the practice of torture is a form of persuasion or coercion), it is clear that rhetoric cannot be viewed only in academic terms. However, the enthymeme based upon logic (especially, based upon the syllogism) was viewed as the basis of rhetoric.\n\nHowever, since the time of Aristotle, logic has changed. For example, Modal logic has undergone a major development that also modifies rhetoric. Yet, Aristotle also outlined generic constraints that focused the rhetorical art squarely within the domain of public political practice. He restricted rhetoric to the domain of the contingent or probable: those matters that admit multiple legitimate opinions or arguments.\n\nThe contemporary neo-Aristotelian and neo-Sophistic positions on rhetoric mirror the division between the Sophists and Aristotle. Neo-Aristotelians generally study rhetoric as political discourse, while the neo-Sophistic view contends that rhetoric cannot be so limited. Rhetorical scholar Michael Leff characterizes the conflict between these positions as viewing rhetoric as a \"thing contained\" versus a \"container\". The neo-Aristotelian view threatens the study of rhetoric by restraining it to such a limited field, ignoring many critical applications of rhetorical theory, criticism, and practice. Simultaneously, the neo-Sophists threaten to expand rhetoric beyond a point of coherent theoretical value.\n\nOver the past century, people studying rhetoric have tended to enlarge its object domain beyond speech texts. Kenneth Burke asserted humans use rhetoric to resolve conflicts by identifying shared characteristics and interests in symbols. By nature, humans engage in identification, either to identify themselves or another individual with a group. This definition of rhetoric as identification broadened the scope from strategic and overt political persuasion to the more implicit tactics of identification found in an immense range of sources.\n\nAmong the many scholars who have since pursued Burke's line of thought, James Boyd White sees rhetoric as a broader domain of social experience in his notion of constitutive rhetoric. Influenced by theories of social construction, White argues that culture is \"reconstituted\" through language. Just as language influences people, people influence language. Language is socially constructed, and depends on the meanings people attach to it. Because language is not rigid and changes depending on the situation, the very usage of language is rhetorical. An author, White would say, is always trying to construct a new world and persuading his or her readers to share that world within the text.\n\nIndividuals engage in the rhetorical process anytime they speak or produce meaning. Even in the field of science, the practices of which were once viewed as being merely the objective testing and reporting of knowledge, scientists must persuade their audience to accept their findings by sufficiently demonstrating that their study or experiment was conducted reliably and resulted in sufficient evidence to support their conclusions.\n\nThe vast scope of rhetoric is difficult to define; however, political discourse remains, in many ways, the paradigmatic example for studying and theorizing specific techniques and conceptions of persuasion, considered by many a synonym for \"rhetoric\".\n\nThroughout European History, rhetoric has concerned itself with persuasion in public and political settings such as assemblies and courts. Because of its associations with democratic institutions, rhetoric is commonly said to flourish in open and democratic societies with rights of free speech, free assembly, and political enfranchisement for some portion of the population. Those who classify rhetoric as a civic art believe that rhetoric has the power to shape communities, form the character of citizens and greatly effect civic life.\n\nRhetoric was viewed as a civic art by several of the ancient philosophers. Aristotle and Isocrates were two of the first to see rhetoric in this light. In his work, Antidosis, Isocrates states, \"We have come together and founded cities and made laws and invented arts; and, generally speaking, there is no institution devised by man which the power of speech has not helped us to establish.\" With this statement he argues that rhetoric is a fundamental part of civic life in every society and that it has been necessary in the foundation of all aspects of society. He further argues in his piece Against the Sophists that rhetoric, although it cannot be taught to just anyone, is capable of shaping the character of man. He writes, \"I do think that the study of political discourse can help more than any other thing to stimulate and form such qualities of character.\" Aristotle, writing several years after Isocrates, supported many of his arguments and continued to make arguments for rhetoric as a civic art.\n\nIn the words of Aristotle, in the \"Rhetoric\", rhetoric is \"... the faculty of observing in any given case the available means of persuasion\". According to Aristotle, this art of persuasion could be used in public settings in three different ways. He writes in Book I, Chapter III, \"A member of the assembly decides about future events, a juryman about past events: while those who merely decide on the orator's skill are observers. From this it follows that there are three divisions of oratory – (1) political, (2) forensic, and (3) the ceremonial oratory of display\". Eugene Garver, in his critique of \"Aristotle's Rhetoric\", confirms that Aristotle viewed rhetoric as a civic art. Garver writes, \"Rhetoric articulates a civic art of rhetoric, combining the almost incompatible properties of techne and appropriateness to citizens.\" Each of Aristotle's divisions plays a role in civic life and can be used in a different way to affect cities.\n\nBecause rhetoric is a public art capable of shaping opinion, some of the ancients including Plato found fault in it. They claimed that while it could be used to improve civic life, it could be used equally easily to deceive or manipulate with negative effects on the city. The masses were incapable of analyzing or deciding anything on their own and would therefore be swayed by the most persuasive speeches. Thus, civic life could be controlled by the one who could deliver the best speech. Plato explores the problematic moral status of rhetoric twice: in \"Gorgias\", a dialogue named for the famed Sophist, and in \"The Phaedrus\", a dialogue best known for its commentary on love. This concern is still maintained to nowadays.\n\nMore trusting in the power of rhetoric to support a republic, the Roman orator Cicero argued that art required something more than eloquence. A good orator needed also to be a good man, a person enlightened on a variety of civic topics. He describes the proper training of the orator in his major text on rhetoric, \"De Oratore\", modeled on Plato's dialogues.\n\nModern day works continue to support the claims of the ancients that rhetoric is an art capable of influencing civic life. In his work \"Political Style\", Robert Hariman claims, \"Furthermore, questions of freedom, equality, and justice often are raised and addressed through performances ranging from debates to demonstrations without loss of moral content\". James Boyd White argues further that rhetoric is capable not only of addressing issues of political interest but that it can influence culture as a whole. In his book, \"When Words Lose Their Meaning\", he argues that words of persuasion and identification define community and civic life. He states that words produce \"the methods by which culture is maintained, criticized, and transformed\". Both White and Hariman agree that words and rhetoric have the power to shape culture and civic life.\n\nIn modern times, rhetoric has consistently remained relevant as a civic art. In speeches, as well as in non-verbal forms, rhetoric continues to be used as a tool to influence communities from local to national levels.\n\nRhetoric as a course of study has evolved significantly since its ancient beginnings. Through the ages, the study and teaching of rhetoric has adapted to the particular exigencies of the time and venue. The study of rhetoric has conformed to a multitude of different applications, ranging from architecture to literature. Although the curriculum has transformed in a number of ways, it has generally emphasized the study of principles and rules of composition as a means for moving audiences. Generally speaking, the study of rhetoric trains students to speak and/or write effectively, as well as critically understand and analyze discourse.\n\nRhetoric began as a civic art in Ancient Greece where students were trained to develop tactics of oratorical persuasion, especially in legal disputes. Rhetoric originated in a school of pre-Socratic philosophers known as the Sophists circa 600 BC. Demosthenes and Lysias emerged as major orators during this period, and Isocrates and Gorgias as prominent teachers. Rhetorical education focused on five particular canons: \"inventio\" (invention), \"dispositio\" (arrangement), \"elocutio\" (style), \"memoria\" (memory), and \"actio\" (delivery). Modern teachings continue to reference these rhetorical leaders and their work in discussions of classical rhetoric and persuasion.\n\nRhetoric was later taught in universities during the Middle Ages as one of the three original liberal arts or trivium (along with logic and grammar). During the medieval period, political rhetoric declined as republican oratory died out and the emperors of Rome garnered increasing authority. With the rise of European monarchs in following centuries, rhetoric shifted into the courtly and religious applications. Augustine exerted strong influence on Christian rhetoric in the Middle Ages, advocating the use of rhetoric to lead audiences to truth and understanding, especially in the church. The study of liberal arts, he believed, contributed to rhetorical study: \"In the case of a keen and ardent nature, fine words will come more readily through reading and hearing the eloquent than by pursuing the rules of rhetoric.\" Poetry and letter writing, for instance, became a central component of rhetorical study during the Middle Ages. After the fall of the Republic in Rome, poetry became a tool for rhetorical training since there were fewer opportunities for political speech. Letter writing was the primary form through which business was conducted both in state and church, so it became an important aspect of rhetorical education.\n\nRhetorical education became more restrained as style and substance separated in 16th-century France with Peter Ramus, and attention turned to the scientific method. That is, influential scholars like Ramus argued that the processes of invention and arrangement should be elevated to the domain of philosophy, while rhetorical instruction should be chiefly concerned with the use of figures and other forms of the ornamentation of language. Scholars such as Francis Bacon developed the study of \"scientific rhetoric\". This concentration rejected the elaborate style characteristic of the classical oration. This plain language carried over to John Locke's teaching, which emphasized concrete knowledge and steered away from ornamentation in speech, further alienating rhetorical instruction, which was identified wholly with this ornamentation, from the pursuit of knowledge.\n\nIn the 18th century, rhetoric assumed a more social role, initiating the creation of new education systems. \"Elocution schools\" arose (predominantly in England) in which females analyzed classic literature, most notably the works of William Shakespeare, and discussed pronunciation tactics.\n\nThe study of rhetoric underwent a revival with the rise of democratic institutions during the late 18th and early 19th centuries. Scotland's author and theorist Hugh Blair served as a key leader of this movement during the late 18th century. In his most famous work \"Lectures on Rhetoric and Belles Lettres\", he advocates rhetorical study for common citizens as a resource for social success. Many American colleges and secondary schools used Blair's text throughout the 19th century to train students of rhetoric.\n\nPolitical rhetoric also underwent renewal in the wake of the US and French revolutions. The rhetorical studies of ancient Greece and Rome were resurrected in the studies of the era as speakers and teachers looked to Cicero and others to inspire defense of the new republic. Leading rhetorical theorists included John Quincy Adams of Harvard who advocated the democratic advancement of rhetorical art. Harvard's founding of the Boylston Professorship of Rhetoric and Oratory sparked the growth of rhetorical study in colleges across the United States. Harvard's rhetoric program drew inspiration from literary sources to guide organization and style. Recently, there have been studies conducted examining the rhetoric used in political speech acts to illustrate how political figures will persuade audiences for their own purposes.\n\nDebate clubs and lyceums also developed as forums in which common citizens could hear speakers and sharpen debate skills. The American lyceum in particular was seen as both an educational and social institution, featuring group discussions and guest lecturers. These programs cultivated democratic values and promoted active participation in political analysis.\n\nThroughout the 20th century, rhetoric developed as a concentrated field of study with the establishment of rhetorical courses in high schools and universities. Courses such as public speaking and speech analysis apply fundamental Greek theories (such as the modes of persuasion: ethos, pathos, and logos) as well as trace rhetorical development throughout the course of history. Rhetoric has earned a more esteemed reputation as a field of study with the emergence of Communication Studies departments as well as Rhetoric and Composition programs within English departments in universities and in conjunction with the linguistic turn. Rhetorical study has broadened in scope, and is especially utilized by the fields of marketing, politics, and literature.\n\nRhetoric, as an area of study, is concerned with how humans use symbols, especially language, to reach agreement that permits coordinated effort of some sort. Harvard University, the first university in the United States, based on the European model, taught a basic curriculum, including rhetoric. Rhetoric, in this sense, how to properly give speeches, played an important role in their training. Rhetoric was soon taught in departments of English as well.\n\nThe relationship between rhetoric and knowledge is an old and interesting philosophical problem, partly because of our different assumptions on the nature of knowledge. But it is fairly clear that while knowledge is primarily concerned with what is commonly known as \"truth\", rhetoric is primarily concerned with statements and their effects on the audience. The word \"rhetoric\" may also refer to \"empty speak\", which reflects an indifference to truth, and in this sense rhetoric is adversarial to knowledge. Plato famously criticized the Sophists for their rhetoric which had persuaded people to sentence his friend Socrates to death regardless of what was true. However, rhetoric is also used in the construction of true arguments, or in identifying what is relevant, the crux of the matter, in a selection of true but otherwise trivial statements. Hence, rhetoric is also closely related to knowledge.\n\nEloquentia Perfecta is a Jesuit rhetoric that revolves around cultivating a person as a whole, as one learns to speak and write for the common good.\n\nRhetoric has its origins in Mesopotamia. Some of the earliest examples of rhetoric can be found in the Akkadian writings of the princess and priestess Enheduanna (c. 2285–2250 BC, while later examples can be found in the Neo-Assyrian Empire during the time of Sennacherib (704–681 BC). In ancient Egypt, rhetoric had existed since at least the Middle Kingdom period (c. 2080–1640 BC). The Egyptians held eloquent speaking in high esteem, and it was a skill that had a very high value in their society. The \"Egyptian rules of rhetoric\" also clearly specified that \"knowing when not to speak is essential, and very respected, rhetorical knowledge\". Their \"approach to rhetoric\" was thus a \"balance between eloquence and wise silence\". Their rules of speech also strongly emphasized \"adherence to social behaviors that support a conservative status quo\" and they held that \"skilled speech should support, not question, society\". In ancient China, rhetoric dates back to the Chinese philosopher, Confucius (551–479 BC), and continued with later followers. The tradition of Confucianism emphasized the use of eloquence in speaking. The use of rhetoric can also be found in the ancient Biblical tradition.\n\nIn ancient Greece, the earliest mention of oratorical skill occurs in Homer's \"Iliad\", where heroes like Achilles, Hector, and Odysseus were honored for their ability to advise and exhort their peers and followers (the \"Laos\" or army) in wise and appropriate action. With the rise of the democratic \"polis\", speaking skill was adapted to the needs of the public and political life of cities in ancient Greece, much of which revolved around the use of oratory as the medium through which political and judicial decisions were made, and through which philosophical ideas were developed and disseminated. For modern students today, it can be difficult to remember that the wide use and availability of written texts is a phenomenon that was just coming into vogue in Classical Greece. In Classical times, many of the great thinkers and political leaders performed their works before an audience, usually in the context of a competition or contest for fame, political influence, and cultural capital; in fact, many of them are known only through the texts that their students, followers, or detractors wrote down. As has already been noted, \"rhetor\" was the Greek term for \"orator:\" A \"rhetor\" was a citizen who regularly addressed juries and political assemblies and who was thus understood to have gained some knowledge about public speaking in the process, though in general facility with language was often referred to as \"logôn techne\", \"skill with arguments\" or \"verbal artistry\".\n\nRhetoric thus evolved as an important art, one that provided the orator with the forms, means, and strategies for persuading an audience of the correctness of the orator's arguments. Today the term \"rhetoric\" can be used at times to refer only to the form of argumentation, often with the pejorative connotation that rhetoric is a means of obscuring the truth. Classical philosophers believed quite the contrary: the skilled use of rhetoric was essential to the discovery of truths, because it provided the means of ordering and clarifying arguments.\n\nIn Europe, organized thought about public speaking began in ancient Greece. Possibly, the first study about the power of language may be attributed to the philosopher Empedocles (d. c. 444 BC), whose theories on human knowledge would provide a newfound basis for many future rhetoricians. The first written manual is attributed to Corax and his pupil Tisias. Their work, as well as that of many of the early rhetoricians, grew out of the courts of law; Tisias, for example, is believed to have written judicial speeches that others delivered in the courts. Teaching in oratory was popularized in the 5th century BC by itinerant teachers known as sophists, the best known of whom were Protagoras (c. 481–420 BC), Gorgias (c. 483–376 BC), and Isocrates (436–338 BC). Aspasia of Miletus is believed to be one of the first women to engage in private and public rhetoric activities as a Sophist. The Sophists were a disparate group who travelled from city to city, teaching in public places to attract students and offer them an education. Their central focus was on logos or what we might broadly refer to as discourse, its functions and powers. They defined parts of speech, analyzed poetry, parsed close synonyms, invented argumentation strategies, and debated the nature of reality. They claimed to make their students \"better\", or, in other words, to teach virtue. They thus claimed that human \"excellence\" was not an accident of fate or a prerogative of noble birth, but an art or \"techne\" that could be taught and learned. They were thus among the first humanists. Several sophists also questioned received wisdom about the gods and the Greek culture, which they believed was taken for granted by Greeks of their time, making them among the first agnostics. For example, they argued that cultural practices were a function of convention or \"nomos\" rather than blood or birth or \"phusis\". They argued even further that morality or immorality of any action could not be judged outside of the cultural context within which it occurred. The well-known phrase, \"Man is the measure of all things\" arises from this belief. One of their most famous, and infamous, doctrines has to do with probability and counter arguments. They taught that every argument could be countered with an opposing argument, that an argument's effectiveness derived from how \"likely\" it appeared to the audience (its probability of seeming true), and that any probability argument could be countered with an inverted probability argument. Thus, if it seemed likely that a strong, poor man were guilty of robbing a rich, weak man, the strong poor man could argue, on the contrary, that this very likelihood (that he would be a suspect) makes it unlikely that he committed the crime, since he would most likely be apprehended for the crime. They also taught and were known for their ability to make the weaker (or worse) argument the stronger (or better). Aristophanes famously parodies the clever inversions that sophists were known for in his play \"The Clouds\".\n\nThe word \"sophistry\" developed strong negative connotations in ancient Greece that continue today, but in ancient Greece sophists were nevertheless popular and well-paid professionals, widely respected for their abilities but also widely criticized for their excesses.\n\nIsocrates (436–338 BC), like the sophists, taught public speaking as a means of human improvement, but he worked to distinguish himself from the Sophists, whom he saw as claiming far more than they could deliver. He suggested that while an art of virtue or excellence did exist, it was only one piece, and the least, in a process of self-improvement that relied much more heavily on native talent and desire, constant practice, and the imitation of good models. Isocrates believed that practice in speaking publicly about noble themes and important questions would function to improve the character of both speaker and audience while also offering the best service to a city. In fact, Isocrates was an outspoken champion of rhetoric as a mode of civic engagement. He thus wrote his speeches as \"models\" for his students to imitate in the same way that poets might imitate Homer or Hesiod, seeking to inspire in them a desire to attain fame through civic leadership. His was the first permanent school in Athens and it is likely that Plato's Academy and Aristotle's Lyceum were founded in part as a response to Isocrates. Though he left no handbooks, his speeches (\"Antidosis\" and \"Against the Sophists\" are most relevant to students of rhetoric) became models of oratory (he was one of the canonical \"Ten Attic Orators\") and keys to his entire educational program. He had a marked influence on Cicero and Quintilian, and through them, on the entire educational system of the west.\n\nPlato (427–347 BC) famously outlined the differences between true and false rhetoric in a number of dialogues; particularly the \"Gorgias\" and \"Phaedrus\" dialogues wherein Plato disputes the sophistic notion that the art of persuasion (the sophists' art, which he calls \"rhetoric\"), can exist independent of the art of dialectic. Plato claims that since sophists appeal only to what seems probable, they are not advancing their students and audiences, but simply flattering them with what they want to hear. While Plato's condemnation of rhetoric is clear in the \"Gorgias\", in the \"Phaedrus\" he suggests the possibility of a true art wherein rhetoric is based upon the knowledge produced by dialectic, and relies on a dialectically informed rhetoric to appeal to the main character, Phaedrus, to take up philosophy. Thus Plato's rhetoric is actually dialectic (or philosophy) \"turned\" toward those who are not yet philosophers and are thus unready to pursue dialectic directly. Plato's animosity against rhetoric, and against the sophists, derives not only from their inflated claims to teach virtue and their reliance on appearances, but from the fact that his teacher, Socrates, was sentenced to death after sophists' efforts.\n\nAristotle (384–322 BC) was a student of Plato who famously set forth an extended treatise on rhetoric that still repays careful study today. In the first sentence of The Art of Rhetoric, Aristotle says that \"rhetoric is the counterpart [literally, the antistrophe] of dialectic\". As the \"antistrophe\" of a Greek ode responds to and is patterned after the structure of the \"strophe\" (they form two sections of the whole and are sung by two parts of the chorus), so the art of rhetoric follows and is structurally patterned after the art of dialectic because both are arts of discourse production. Thus, while dialectical methods are necessary to find truth in theoretical matters, rhetorical methods are required in practical matters such as adjudicating somebody's guilt or innocence when charged in a court of law, or adjudicating a prudent course of action to be taken in a deliberative assembly. The core features of dialectic include the absence of determined subject matter, its elaboration on earlier empirical practice, the explication of its aims, the type of utility and the definition of the proper function.\n\nFor Plato and Aristotle, dialectic involves persuasion, so when Aristotle says that rhetoric is the antistrophe of dialectic, he means that rhetoric as he uses the term has a domain or scope of application that is parallel to, but different from, the domain or scope of application of dialectic. In \"Nietzsche Humanist\" (1998: 129), Claude Pavur explains that \"[t]he Greek prefix 'anti' does not merely designate opposition, but it can also mean 'in place of.'\" When Aristotle characterizes rhetoric as the antistrophe of dialectic, he no doubt means that rhetoric is used in place of dialectic when we are discussing civic issues in a court of law or in a legislative assembly. The domain of rhetoric is civic affairs and practical decision making in civic affairs, not theoretical considerations of operational definitions of terms and clarification of thought. These, for him, are in the domain of dialectic.\n\nAristotle's treatise on rhetoric systematically describes civic rhetoric as a human art or skill (techne). It is more of an objective theory than it is an interpretive theory with a rhetorical tradition. Aristotle's art of rhetoric emphasizes persuasion as the purpose of rhetoric. His definition of rhetoric as \"the faculty of observing in any given case the available means of persuasion\", essentially a mode of discovery, limits the art to the inventional process, and Aristotle heavily emphasizes the logical aspect of this process. In his account, rhetoric is the art of discovering all available means of persuasion. A speaker supports the probability of a message by logical, ethical, and emotional proofs. Some form of logos, ethos, and pathos is present in every possible public presentation that exists. But the treatise in fact also discusses not only elements of style and (briefly) delivery, but also emotional appeals (pathos) and characterological appeals (ethos).\n\nAristotle identifies three steps or \"offices\" of rhetoric—invention, arrangement, and style—and three different types of rhetorical proof: ethos (Aristotle's theory of character and how the character and credibility of a speaker can influence an audience to consider him/her to be believable—there being three qualities that contribute to a credible ethos: perceived intelligence, virtuous character, and goodwill); pathos (the use of emotional appeals to alter the audience's judgment through metaphor, amplification, storytelling, or presenting the topic in a way that evokes strong emotions in the audience.); and, logos (the use of reasoning, either inductive or deductive, to construct an argument).\n\nAristotle emphasized \"enthymematic reasoning\" as central to the process of rhetorical invention, though later rhetorical theorists placed much less emphasis on it. An \"enthymeme\" would follow today's form of a syllogism; however it would exclude either the major or minor premise. An enthymeme is persuasive because the audience is providing the missing premise. Because the audience is able to provide the missing premise, they are more likely to be persuaded by the message.\n\nAristotle identified three different types or genres of civic rhetoric. \"Forensic\" (also known as judicial), was concerned with determining the truth or falseness of events that took place in the past and issues of guilt. An example of forensic rhetoric would be in a courtroom. \"Deliberative\" (also known as political), was concerned with determining whether or not particular actions should or should not be taken in the future. Making laws would be an example of deliberative rhetoric. \"Epideictic\" (also known as ceremonial), was concerned with praise and blame, values, right and wrong, demonstrating beauty and skill in the present. Examples of epideictic rhetoric would include a eulogy or a wedding toast.\n\nThe Five Canons of Rhetoric serve as a guide to creating persuasive messages and arguments. These are invention (the process of developing arguments); arrangement (organizing the arguments for extreme effect); style (determining how to present the arguments); memory (the process of learning and memorizing the speech and persuasive messages), and delivery (the gestures, pronunciation, tone and pace used when presenting the persuasive arguments).\n\nIn the rhetoric field, there is an intellectual debate about Aristotle's definition of rhetoric. Some believe that Aristotle defines rhetoric in \"On Rhetoric\" as the art of persuasion, while others think he defines it as the art of judgment. Rhetoric as the art of judgment would mean the rhetor discerns the available means of persuasion with a choice. Aristotle also says rhetoric is concerned with judgment because the audience judges the rhetor's ethos.\n\nOne of the most famous of Aristotelian doctrines was the idea of topics (also referred to as common topics or commonplaces). Though the term had a wide range of application (as a memory technique or compositional exercise, for example) it most often referred to the \"seats of argument\"—the list of categories of thought or modes of reasoning—that a speaker could use to generate arguments or proofs. The topics were thus a heuristic or inventional tool designed to help speakers categorize and thus better retain and apply frequently used types of argument. For example, since we often see effects as \"like\" their causes, one way to invent an argument (about a future effect) is by discussing the cause (which it will be \"like\"). This and other rhetorical topics derive from Aristotle's belief that there are certain predictable ways in which humans (particularly non-specialists) draw conclusions from premises. Based upon and adapted from his dialectical Topics, the rhetorical topics became a central feature of later rhetorical theorizing, most famously in Cicero's work of that name.\n\nFor the Romans, oration became an important part of public life. Cicero (106–43 BC) was chief among Roman rhetoricians and remains the best known ancient orator and the only orator who both spoke in public and produced treatises on the subject. \"Rhetorica ad Herennium\", formerly attributed to Cicero but now considered to be of unknown authorship, is one of the most significant works on rhetoric and is still widely used as a reference today. It is an extensive reference on the use of rhetoric, and in the Middle Ages and Renaissance, it achieved wide publication as an advanced school text on rhetoric.\n\nCicero is considered one of the most significant rhetoricians of all time, charting a middle path between the competing Attic and Asiatic styles to become considered second only to Demosthenes among history's orators. His works include the early and very influential De Inventione (On Invention, often read alongside the \"Ad Herennium\" as the two basic texts of rhetorical theory throughout the Middle Ages and into the Renaissance), De Oratore (a fuller statement of rhetorical principles in dialogue form), Topics (a rhetorical treatment of common topics, highly influential through the Renaissance), Brutus (Cicero) (a discussion of famous orators) and Orator (a defense of Cicero's style). Cicero also left a large body of speeches and letters which would establish the outlines of Latin eloquence and style for generations to come. It was the rediscovery of Cicero's speeches (such as the defense of Archias) and letters (to Atticus) by Italians like Petrarch that, in part, ignited the cultural innovations that we know as the Renaissance. He championed the learning of Greek (and Greek rhetoric), contributed to Roman ethics, linguistics, philosophy, and politics, and emphasized the importance of all forms of appeal (emotion, humor, stylistic range, irony and digression in addition to pure reasoning) in oratory. But perhaps his most significant contribution to subsequent rhetoric, and education in general, was his argument that orators learn not only about the specifics of their case (the \"hypothesis\") but also about the general questions from which they derived (the \"theses\"). Thus, in giving a speech in defense of a poet whose Roman citizenship had been questioned, the orator should examine not only the specifics of that poet's civic status, he should also examine the role and value of poetry and of literature more generally in Roman culture and political life. The orator, said Cicero, needed to be knowledgeable about all areas of human life and culture, including law, politics, history, literature, ethics, warfare, medicine, even arithmetic and geometry. Cicero gave rise to the idea that the \"ideal orator\" be well-versed in all branches of learning: an idea that was rendered as \"liberal humanism\", and that lives on today in liberal arts or general education requirements in colleges and universities around the world.\n\nQuintilian (35–100 AD) began his career as a pleader in the courts of law; his reputation grew so great that Vespasian created a chair of rhetoric for him in Rome. The culmination of his life's work was the \"Institutio Oratoria\" (\"Institutes of Oratory,\" or alternatively, \"The Orator's Education\"), a lengthy treatise on the training of the orator, in which he discusses the training of the \"perfect\" orator from birth to old age and, in the process, reviews the doctrines and opinions of many influential rhetoricians who preceded him.\n\nIn the Institutes, Quintilian organizes rhetorical study through the stages of education that an aspiring orator would undergo, beginning with the selection of a nurse. Aspects of elementary education (training in reading and writing, grammar, and literary criticism) are followed by preliminary rhetorical exercises in composition (the progymnasmata) that include maxims and fables, narratives and comparisons, and finally full legal or political speeches. The delivery of speeches within the context of education or for entertainment purposes became widespread and popular under the term \"declamation\". Rhetorical training proper was categorized under five canons that would persist for centuries in academic circles:\n\nThis work was available only in fragments in medieval times, but the discovery of a complete copy at the Abbey of St. Gall in 1416 led to its emergence as one of the most influential works on rhetoric during the Renaissance.\n\nQuintilian's work describes not just the art of rhetoric, but the formation of the perfect orator as a politically active, virtuous, publicly minded citizen. His emphasis was on the ethical application of rhetorical training, in part a reaction against the growing tendency in Roman schools toward standardization of themes and techniques. At the same time that rhetoric was becoming divorced from political decision making, rhetoric rose as a culturally vibrant and important mode of entertainment and cultural criticism in a movement known as the \"second sophistic\", a development that gave rise to the charge (made by Quintilian and others) that teachers were emphasizing style over substance in rhetoric.\n\nAfter the breakup of the western Roman Empire, the study of rhetoric continued to be central to the study of the verbal arts; but the study of the verbal arts went into decline for several centuries, followed eventually by a gradual rise in formal education, culminating in the rise of medieval universities. But rhetoric transmuted during this period into the arts of letter writing (\"ars dictaminis\") and sermon writing (\"ars praedicandi\"). As part of the \"trivium\", rhetoric was secondary to the study of logic, and its study was highly scholastic: students were given repetitive exercises in the creation of discourses on historical subjects (\"suasoriae\") or on classic legal questions (\"controversiae\").\n\nAlthough he is not commonly regarded as a rhetorician, St. Augustine (354–430) was trained in rhetoric and was at one time a professor of Latin rhetoric in Milan. After his conversion to Christianity, he became interested in using these \"pagan\" arts for spreading his religion. This new use of rhetoric is explored in the Fourth Book of his \"De Doctrina Christiana\", which laid the foundation of what would become homiletics, the rhetoric of the sermon. Augustine begins the book by asking why \"the power of eloquence, which is so efficacious in pleading either for the erroneous cause or the right\", should not be used for righteous purposes (IV. 3).\n\nOne early concern of the medieval Christian church was its attitude to classical rhetoric itself. Jerome (d. 420) complained, \"What has Horace to do with the Psalms, Virgil with the Gospels, Cicero with the Apostles?\" Augustine is also remembered for arguing for the preservation of pagan works and fostering a church tradition that led to conservation of numerous pre-Christian rhetorical writings.\n\nRhetoric would not regain its classical heights until the Renaissance, but new writings did advance rhetorical thought. Boethius (480?–524), in his brief \"Overview of the Structure of Rhetoric\", continues Aristotle's taxonomy by placing rhetoric in subordination to philosophical argument or dialectic. The introduction of Arab scholarship from European relations with the Muslim empire (in particular Al-Andalus) renewed interest in Aristotle and Classical thought in general, leading to what some historians call the 12th century Renaissance. A number of medieval grammars and studies of poetry and rhetoric appeared.\n\nLate medieval rhetorical writings include those of St. Thomas Aquinas (1225?–1274), Matthew of Vendome (\"Ars Versificatoria\", 1175?), and Geoffrey of Vinsauf (\"Poetria Nova\", 1200–1216). Pre-modern female rhetoricians, outside of Socrates' friend Aspasia, are rare; but medieval rhetoric produced by women either in religious orders, such as Julian of Norwich (d. 1415), or the very well-connected Christine de Pizan (1364?–1430?), did occur if not always recorded in writing.\n\nIn his 1943 Cambridge University doctoral dissertation in English, Canadian Marshall McLuhan (1911–1980) surveys the verbal arts from approximately the time of Cicero down to the time of Thomas Nashe (1567–1600?). His dissertation is still noteworthy for undertaking to study the history of the verbal arts together as the trivium, even though the developments that he surveys have been studied in greater detail since he undertook his study. As noted below, McLuhan became one of the most widely publicized thinkers in the 20th century, so it is important to note his scholarly roots in the study of the history of rhetoric and dialectic.\n\nAnother interesting record of medieval rhetorical thought can be seen in the many animal debate poems popular in England and the continent during the Middle Ages, such as The Owl and the Nightingale (13th century) and Geoffrey Chaucer's Parliament of Fowls (1382?).\n\nWalter J. Ong's article \"Humanism\" in the 1967 \"New Catholic Encyclopedia\" surveys Renaissance humanism, which defined itself broadly as disfavoring medieval scholastic logic and dialectic and as favoring instead the study of classical Latin style and grammar and philology and rhetoric. (Reprinted in Ong's \"Faith and Contexts\" (Scholars Press, 1999; 4: 69–91.))\n\nOne influential figure in the rebirth of interest in classical rhetoric was Erasmus (c. 1466–1536). His 1512 work, \"De Duplici Copia Verborum et Rerum\" (also known as \"\"), was widely published (it went through more than 150 editions throughout Europe) and became one of the basic school texts on the subject. Its treatment of rhetoric is less comprehensive than the classic works of antiquity, but provides a traditional treatment of \"res-verba\" (matter and form): its first book treats the subject of elocutio, showing the student how to use schemes and tropes; the second book covers inventio. Much of the emphasis is on abundance of variation (\"copia\" means \"plenty\" or \"abundance\", as in copious or cornucopia), so both books focus on ways to introduce the maximum amount of variety into discourse. For instance, in one section of the \"De Copia\", Erasmus presents two hundred variations of the sentence \"\" Another of his works, the extremely popular The Praise of Folly, also had considerable influence on the teaching of rhetoric in the later 16th century. Its orations in favour of qualities such as madness spawned a type of exercise popular in Elizabethan grammar schools, later called adoxography, which required pupils to compose passages in praise of useless things.\n\nJuan Luis Vives (1492–1540) also helped shape the study of rhetoric in England. A Spaniard, he was appointed in 1523 to the Lectureship of Rhetoric at Oxford by Cardinal Wolsey, and was entrusted by Henry VIII to be one of the tutors of Mary. Vives fell into disfavor when Henry VIII divorced Catherine of Aragon and left England in 1528. His best-known work was a book on education, \"De Disciplinis\", published in 1531, and his writings on rhetoric included \"Rhetoricae, sive De Ratione Dicendi, Libri Tres\" (1533), \"De Consultatione\" (1533), and a rhetoric on letter writing, \"De Conscribendis Epistolas\" (1536).\n\nIt is likely that many well-known English writers were exposed to the works of Erasmus and Vives (as well as those of the Classical rhetoricians) in their schooling, which was conducted in Latin (not English) and often included some study of Greek and placed considerable emphasis on rhetoric. See, for example, T.W. Baldwin's \"William Shakspere's Small Latine and Lesse Greeke\", 2 vols. (University of Illinois Press, 1944).\n\nThe mid-16th century saw the rise of vernacular rhetorics—those written in English rather than in the Classical languages; adoption of works in English was slow, however, due to the strong orientation toward Latin and Greek. Leonard Cox's \"The Art or Crafte of Rhetoryke\" (c. 1524–1530; second edition published in 1532) is considered to be the earliest text on rhetorics in English; it was, for the most part, a translation of the work of Philipp Melanchthon. A successful early text was Thomas Wilson's \"The Arte of Rhetorique\" (1553), which presents a traditional treatment of rhetoric. For instance, Wilson presents the five canons of rhetoric (Invention, Disposition, Elocutio, Memoria, and Utterance or Actio). Other notable works included Angel Day's \"The English Secretorie\" (1586, 1592), George Puttenham's \"The Arte of English Poesie\" (1589), and Richard Rainholde's \"Foundacion of Rhetorike\" (1563).\n\nDuring this same period, a movement began that would change the organization of the school curriculum in Protestant and especially Puritan circles and led to rhetoric losing its central place. A French scholar, Pierre de la Ramée, in Latin Petrus Ramus (1515–1572), dissatisfied with what he saw as the overly broad and redundant organization of the trivium, proposed a new curriculum. In his scheme of things, the five components of rhetoric no longer lived under the common heading of rhetoric. Instead, invention and disposition were determined to fall exclusively under the heading of dialectic, while style, delivery, and memory were all that remained for rhetoric. See Walter J. Ong, \"Ramus, Method, and the Decay of Dialogue: From the Art of Discourse to the Art of Reason\" (Harvard University Press, 1958; reissued by the University of Chicago Press, 2004, with a new foreword by Adrian Johns). Ramus was martyred during the French Wars of Religion. His teachings, seen as inimical to Catholicism, were short-lived in France but found a fertile ground in the Netherlands, Germany and England.\n\nOne of Ramus' French followers, Audomarus Talaeus (Omer Talon) published his rhetoric, \"Institutiones Oratoriae\", in 1544. This work provided a simple presentation of rhetoric that emphasized the treatment of style, and became so popular that it was mentioned in John Brinsley's (1612) \"Ludus literarius; or The Grammar Schoole\" as being the \"most used in the best schooles\". Many other Ramist rhetorics followed in the next half-century, and by the 17th century, their approach became the primary method of teaching rhetoric in Protestant and especially Puritan circles. John Milton (1608–1674) wrote a textbook in logic or dialectic in Latin based on Ramus' work.\n\nRamism could not exert any influence on the established Catholic schools and universities, which remained loyal to Scholasticism, or on the new Catholic schools and universities founded by members of the religious orders known as the Society of Jesus or the Oratorians, as can be seen in the Jesuit curriculum (in use right up to the 19th century, across the Christian world) known as the Ratio Studiorum (that Claude Pavur, S.J., has recently translated into English, with the Latin text in the parallel column on each page (St. Louis: Institute of Jesuit Sources, 2005)). If the influence of Cicero and Quintilian permeates the Ratio Studiorum, it is through the lenses of devotion and the militancy of the Counter-Reformation. The \"Ratio\" was indeed imbued with a sense of the divine, of the incarnate logos, that is of rhetoric as an eloquent and humane means to reach further devotion and further action in the Christian city, which was absent from Ramist formalism. The Ratio is, in rhetoric, the answer to St Ignatius Loyola's practice, in devotion, of \"spiritual exercises\". This complex oratorical-prayer system is absent from Ramism.\n\nIn New England and at Harvard College (founded 1636), Ramus and his followers dominated, as Perry Miller shows in \"The New England Mind: The Seventeenth Century\" (Harvard University Press, 1939). However, in England, several writers influenced the course of rhetoric during the 17th century, many of them carrying forward the dichotomy that had been set forth by Ramus and his followers during the preceding decades. Of greater importance is that this century saw the development of a modern, vernacular style that looked to English, rather than to Greek, Latin, or French models.\n\nFrancis Bacon (1561–1626), although not a rhetorician, contributed to the field in his writings. One of the concerns of the age was to find a suitable style for the discussion of scientific topics, which needed above all a clear exposition of facts and arguments, rather than the ornate style favored at the time. Bacon in his \"The Advancement of Learning\" criticized those who are preoccupied with style rather than \"the weight of matter, worth of subject, soundness of argument, life of invention, or depth of judgment\". On matters of style, he proposed that the style conform to the subject matter and to the audience, that simple words be employed whenever possible, and that the style should be agreeable.\n\nThomas Hobbes (1588–1679) also wrote on rhetoric. Along with a shortened translation of Aristotle's \"Rhetoric\", Hobbes also produced a number of other works on the subject. Sharply contrarian on many subjects, Hobbes, like Bacon, also promoted a simpler and more natural style that used figures of speech sparingly.\n\nPerhaps the most influential development in English style came out of the work of the Royal Society (founded in 1660), which in 1664 set up a committee to improve the English language. Among the committee's members were John Evelyn (1620–1706), Thomas Sprat (1635–1713), and John Dryden (1631–1700). Sprat regarded \"fine speaking\" as a disease, and thought that a proper style should \"reject all amplifications, digressions, and swellings of style\" and instead \"return back to a primitive purity and shortness\" (\"History of the Royal Society\", 1667).\n\nWhile the work of this committee never went beyond planning, John Dryden is often credited with creating and exemplifying a new and modern English style. His central tenet was that the style should be proper \"to the occasion, the subject, and the persons\". As such, he advocated the use of English words whenever possible instead of foreign ones, as well as vernacular, rather than Latinate, syntax. His own prose (and his poetry) became exemplars of this new style.\n\nArguably one of the most influential schools of rhetoric during this time was Scottish Belletristic rhetoric, exemplified by such professors of rhetoric as Hugh Blair whose Lectures on Rhetoric and Belles Lettres saw international success in various editions and translations.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, there was a revival of rhetorical study manifested in the establishment of departments of rhetoric and speech at academic institutions, as well as the formation of national and international professional organizations. Jim A. Kuypers and Andrew King suggest that the early interest in rhetorical studies was a movement away from elocution as taught in departments of English in the United States, and was an attempt to refocus rhetorical studies away from delivery only to civic engagement. Collectively, they write, twentieth century rhetorical studies offered an understanding of rhetoric that demonstrated a \"rich complexity\" of how rhetorical scholars understood the nature of rhetoric. Theorists generally agree that by the 1930s a significant reason for the revival of the study of rhetoric was the renewed importance of language and persuasion in the increasingly mediated environment of the 20th century (see Linguistic turn) and through the 21st century, with the media focus on the wide variations and analyses of political rhetoric and its consequences. The rise of advertising and of mass media such as photography, telegraphy, radio, and film brought rhetoric more prominently into people's lives. More recently the term rhetoric has been applied to media forms other than verbal language, e.g. Visual rhetoric.\n\n\nRhetoric can be analyzed by a variety of methods and theories. One such method is criticism. When those using criticism analyze instances of rhetoric what they do is called rhetorical criticism (see section below). According to rhetorical critic Jim A. Kuypers, \"The use of rhetoric is an art; as such, it does not lend itself well to scientific methods of analysis. Criticism is an art as well; as such, it is particularly well suited for examining rhetorical creations.\" He asserts that criticism is a method of generating knowledge just as the scientific method is a method for generating knowledge: \"The way the Sciences and the Humanities study the phenomena that surround us differ greatly in the amount of researcher personality allowed to influence the results of the study. For example, in the Sciences researchers purposefully adhere to a strict method (the scientific method). All scientific researchers are to use this same basic method, and successful experiments must be 100 percent replicable by others. The application of the scientific method may take numerous forms, but the overall method remains the same—and the personality of the researcher is excised from the actual study. In sharp contrast, criticism (one of many Humanistic methods of generating knowledge) actively involves the personality of the researcher. The very choices of what to study, and how and why to study a rhetorical artifact are heavily influenced by the personal qualities of the researcher. In criticism this is especially important since the personality of the critic considered an integral component of the study. Further personalizing criticism, we find that rhetorical critics use a variety of means when examining a particular rhetorical artifact, with some critics even developing their own unique perspective to better examine a rhetorical artifact.\"\n\nEdwin Black (rhetorician) wrote on this point that, \"Methods, then, admit of varying degrees of personality. And criticism, on the whole, is near the indeterminate, contingent, personal end of the methodological scale. In consequence of this placement, it is neither possible nor desirable for criticism to be fixed into a system, for critical techniques to be objectified, for critics to be interchangeable for purposes of [scientific] replication, or for rhetorical criticism to serve as the handmaiden of quasi-scientific theory. [The] idea is that critical method is too personally expressive to be systematized.\n\nJim A. Kuypers sums this idea of criticism as art in the following manner: \"In short, criticism is an art, not a science. It is not a scientific method; it uses subjective methods of argument; it exists on its own, not in conjunction with other methods of generating knowledge (i.e., social scientific or scientific). [I]nsight and imagination top statistical applications when studying rhetorical action.\"\n\nThere does not exist an analytic method that is widely recognized as \"the\" rhetorical method, partly because many in rhetorical study see rhetoric as merely produced by reality (see dissent from that view below). It is important to note that the object of rhetorical analysis is typically discourse, and therefore the principles of \"rhetorical analysis\" would be difficult to distinguish from those of \"discourse analysis\". However, rhetorical analytic methods can also be applied to almost anything, including objects—a car, a castle, a computer, a comportment.\n\nGenerally speaking, rhetorical analysis makes use of rhetorical concepts (ethos, logos, kairos, mediation, etc.) to describe the social or epistemological functions of the object of study. When the object of study happens to be some type of discourse (a speech, a poem, a joke, a newspaper article), the aim of rhetorical analysis is not simply to describe the claims and arguments advanced within the discourse, but (more important) to identify the specific semiotic strategies employed by the speaker to accomplish specific persuasive goals. Therefore, after a rhetorical analyst discovers a use of language that is particularly important in achieving persuasion, she typically moves onto the question of \"How does it work?\" That is, what effects does this particular use of rhetoric have on an audience, and how does that effect provide more clues as to the speaker's (or writer's) objectives?\n\nThere are some scholars who do partial rhetorical analysis and defer judgments about rhetorical success. In other words, some analysts attempt to avoid the question of \"Was this use of rhetoric successful [in accomplishing the aims of the speaker]?\" To others, however, that is the preeminent point: is the rhetoric strategically effective and what did the rhetoric accomplish? This question allows a shift in focus from the speaker's objectives to the effects and functions of the rhetoric itself.\n\n\"Rhetorical strategies\" are the efforts made by authors to persuade or inform their readers. Rhetorical strategies are employed by writers and refer to the different ways they can persuade the reader. According to Gray, there are various argument strategies used in writing. He describes four of these as argument from analogy, argument from absurdity, thought experiments, and inference to the best explanation.\n\nModern rhetorical criticism explores the relationship between text and context; that is, how an instance of rhetoric relates to circumstances. Since the aim of rhetoric is to be persuasive, the level to which the rhetoric in question persuades its audience is what must be analyzed, and later criticized. In determining the extent to which a text is persuasive, one may explore the text's relationship with its audience, purpose, ethics, argument, evidence, arrangement, delivery, and style. In his \"Rhetorical Criticism: A Study in Method\", scholar Edwin Black states, \"It is the task of criticism not to measure ... discourses dogmatically against some parochial standard of rationality but, allowing for the immeasurable wide range of human experience, to see them as they really are.\" While the language \"as they really are\" is debatable, rhetorical critics explain texts and speeches by investigating their rhetorical situation, typically placing them in a framework of speaker/audience exchange. The antithetical view places the rhetor at the center of creating that which is considered the extant situation; i.e., the agenda and spin.\n\nFollowing the neo-Aristotelian approaches to criticism, scholars began to derive methods from other disciplines, such as history, philosophy, and the social sciences. The importance of critics' personal judgment decreased in explicit coverage while the analytical dimension of criticism began to gain momentum. Throughout the 1960s and 1970s, methodological pluralism replaced the singular neo-Aristotelian method. Methodological rhetorical criticism is typically done by deduction, where a broad method is used to examine a specific case of rhetoric. These types include:\n\nBy the mid-1980s, however, the study of rhetorical criticism began to move away from precise methodology towards conceptual issues. Conceptually driven criticism operates more through abduction, according to scholar James Jasinski, who argues that this emerging type of criticism can be thought of as a back-and-forth between the text and the concepts, which are being explored at the same time. The concepts remain \"works in progress\", and understanding those terms develops through the analysis of a text.\n\nCriticism is considered rhetorical when it focuses on the way some types of discourse react to situational exigencies—problems or demands—and constraints. This means that modern rhetorical criticism is based in how the rhetorical case or object persuades, defines, or constructs the audience. In modern terms, what can be considered rhetoric includes, but it is not limited to, speeches, scientific discourse, pamphlets, literary work, works of art, and pictures. Contemporary rhetorical criticism has maintained aspects of early neo-Aristotelian thinking through close reading, which attempts to explore the organization and stylistic structure of a rhetorical object. Using close textual analysis means rhetorical critics use the tools of classical rhetoric and literary analysis to evaluate the style and strategy used to communicate the argument.\n\nRhetorical criticism serves several purposes or functions. First, rhetorical criticism hopes to help form or improve public taste. It helps educate audiences and develops them into better judges of rhetorical situations by reinforcing ideas of value, morality, and suitability. Rhetorical criticism can thus contribute to the audience's understanding of themselves and society.\n\nAccording to Jim A. Kuypers, a dual purpose for performing criticism should be primarily to enhance our appreciation and understanding. \"[W]e wish to enhance both our own and others' understanding of the rhetorical act; we wish to share our insights with others, and to enhance their appreciation of the rhetorical act. These are not hollow goals, but quality of life issues. By improving understanding and appreciation, the critic can offer new and potentially exciting ways for others to see the world. Through understanding we also produce knowledge about human communication; in theory this should help us to better govern our interactions with others.\" Criticism is a humanizing activity in that it explores and highlights qualities that make us human.\"\n\nRhetoric was part of the curriculum in Jesuit and, to a lesser extent, Oratorian colleges until the French Revolution. For Jesuits, right from the foundation of the Society in France, rhetoric was an integral part of the training of young men toward taking up leadership positions in the Church and in State institutions, as Marc Fumaroli has shown it in his foundational \"Âge de l'éloquence\" (1980). The Oratorians, by contrast, reserved it a lesser place, in part due to the stress they placed on modern language acquisition and a more sensualist philosophy (like Bernard Lamy's \"La Rhétorique ou l'Art de parler\" (1675), which is an excellent example of their approach). Nonetheless, in the 18th Century, rhetoric was the structure and crown of secondary education, with works such as Rollin's \"Treatise of Studies\" achieving a wide and enduring fame across the Continent. Later, with Nicolas Boileau and François de Malherbe, rhetoric is the instrument of the clarity of the comment and speech ; the literature that ensues from it is named \"Sublime\". The main representative remains Rivarol.\n\nThe French Revolution, however, turned this around. Philosophers such as Condorcet, who drafted the French revolutionary chart for a people's education under the rule of reason, dismissed rhetoric as an instrument of oppression in the hands of clerics in particular. The Revolution went as far as to suppress the Bar, arguing that forensic rhetoric did disservice to a rational system of justice, by allowing fallacies and emotions to come into play. Nonetheless, as later historians of the 19th century were keen to explain, the Revolution was a high moment of eloquence and rhetorical prowess, although set against a background of rejecting rhetoric.\n\nUnder the First Empire and its wide-ranging educational reforms, imposed on or imitated across the Continent, rhetoric regained little ground. In fact, instructions to the newly founded Polytechnic School, tasked with training the scientific and technical elites, made it clear that written reporting was to supersede oral reporting. Rhetoric reentered secondary curriculum in fits and starts, but never regained the prominence it had enjoyed under the \"ancien régime\", although the penultimate year of secondary education was known as the Class of Rhetoric. When manuals were redrafted in the mid-century, in particular after the 1848 Revolution to formulate a national curriculum, care was taken to distance their approach to rhetoric from that of the Church, which was seen as an agent of conservatism and reactionary politics.\n\nBy the end of the 1870s, a major change had taken place: philosophy of the rationalist or eclectic kind, generally Kantian, had taken over rhetoric as the true end stage of secondary education (the so-called Class of Philosophy bridged secondary and university education). Rhetoric was then relegated to the study of literary figures of speech, a discipline later on taught as Stylistics within the French literature curriculum. More decisively, in 1890, a new standard written exercise superseded the rhetorical exercises of speech writing, letter writing and narration. The new genre, called dissertation, had been invented in 1866, for the purpose of rational argument in the philosophy class. Typically, in a dissertation, a question is asked, such as: \"Is history a sign of humanity's freedom?\" The structure of a dissertation consists in an introduction that elucidates the basic definitions involved in the question as set, followed by an argument or thesis, a counter-argument or antithesis, and a resolving argument or synthesis that is not a compromise between the former but the production of a new argument, ending with a conclusion that does not sum up the points but opens onto a new problem. Hegelianism influenced the dissertation design. It remains today the standard of writing in French humanities.\n\nBy the beginning of the 20th century, rhetoric was fast losing the remains of its former importance, and eventually was taken out of the school curriculum altogether at the time of the Separation of State and Churches (1905). Part of the argument was that rhetoric remained the last element of irrationality, driven by religious arguments, in what was perceived as inimical to Republican education. The move, initiated in 1789, found its resolution in 1902 when rhetoric was expunged from all curricula. At the same time, Aristotelian rhetoric, owing to a revival of Thomistic philosophy initiated by Rome, regained ground in what was left of Catholic education in France, in particular at the prestigious Faculty of Theology of Paris, now a private entity. Yet, rhetoric vanished substantially from the French scene, educational or intellectual, for some 60 years..\n\nIn the early 1960s a change began to take place, as the word rhetoric and the body of knowledge it covers began to be used again, in a modest and almost secret manner. The new linguistic turn, through the rise of semiotics as well as of structural linguistics, brought to the fore a new interest in figures of speech as signs, the metaphor in particular (in the works of Roman Jakobson, Groupe µ, Michel Charles, Gérard Genette) while famed Structuralist Roland Barthes, a classicist by training, perceived how some basic elements of rhetoric could be of use in the study of narratives, fashion and ideology. Knowledge of rhetoric was so dim in the early 1970s that his short memoir on rhetoric was seen as highly innovative. Basic as it was, it did help rhetoric regain some currency in avant-garde circles. Psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan, his contemporary, makes references to rhetoric, in particular to the Pre-Socratics. Philosopher Jacques Derrida wrote on Voice.\n\nAt the same time, more profound work was taking place that eventually gave rise to the French school of rhetoric as it exists today.\n\nThis rhetorical revival took place on two fronts. First, in 17th-century French studies, the mainstay of French literary education, awareness grew that rhetoric was necessary to push the limits of knowledge further, and also to provide an antidote to Structuralism and its denial of historicism in culture. This was the pioneering work of Marc Fumaroli who, building on the work of classicist and Neo-Latinist Alain Michel and French scholars such as Roger Zuber, published his famed \"Age de l'Eloquence\" (1980), was one of the founders of the International Society for the History of Rhetoric and was eventually elevated to a chair in rhetoric at the prestigious College de France. He is the editor in chief of a monumental \"History of Rhetoric in Modern Europe\". His disciples form the second generation, with rhetoricians such as Françoise Waquet and Delphine Denis, both of the Sorbonne, or Philippe-Joseph Salazar ( on the French Wikipedia), until recently at Derrida's College international de philosophie, laureate of the Harry Oppenheimer prize and whose recent book on \"Hyperpolitique\" has attracted the French media's attention on a \"re-appropriation of the means of production of persuasion\".\n\nSecond, in the area of Classical studies, in the wake of Alain Michel, Latin scholars fostered a renewal in Cicero studies. They broke away from a pure literary reading of his orations, in an attempt to embed Cicero in European ethics. Meanwhile, among Greek scholars, the literary historian and philologist Jacques Bompaire, the philologist and philosopher E. Dupréel, and later the literature historian Jacqueline de Romilly pioneered new studies in the Sophists and the Second Sophistic. The second generation of Classicists, often trained in philosophy as well (following Heidegger and Derrida, mainly), built on their work, with authors such as Marcel Detienne (now at Johns Hopkins), Nicole Loraux, Medievalist and logician (Geneva), Ciceronian scholar Carlos Lévy (Sorbonne, Paris) and Barbara Cassin (Collége international de philosophie, Paris). Sociologist of science Bruno Latour and economist Romain Laufer may also be considered part of, or close to this group. Also French philosophers specialized in Arabic commentaries on Aristotle's \"Rhetoric\".\n\nLinks between the two strands—literary and philosophical—of the French school of rhetoric are strong and collaborative, and bear witness to the revival of rhetoric in France. A recent issue of \"Philosophy & Rhetoric\" presents current writing in the field.\n\nRhetoric is practiced by social animals in a variety of ways. For example, birds use song, various animals warn members of their species of danger, chimpanzees have the capacity to deceive through communicative keyboard systems, and deer stags compete for the attention of mates. While these might be understood as rhetorical actions (attempts at persuading through meaningful actions and utterances), they can also be seen as rhetorical fundamentals shared by humans and animals. The study of animal rhetoric has been described as biorhetorics.\n\nThe self-awareness required to practice rhetoric might be difficult to notice and acknowledge in some animals. However, some animals are capable of acknowledging themselves in a mirror, and therefore, they might be understood to be self-aware and engaged in rhetoric when practicing some form of language, and therefore, rhetoric.\n\nAnthropocentrism plays a significant role in human-animal relationships, reflecting and perpetuating binaries in which humans are assumed to be beings that \"have\" extraordinary qualities while animals are regarded as beings that \"lack\" those qualities. This dualism is manifested through other forms as well, such as reason and sense, mind and body, ideal and phenomenon in which the first category of each pair (reason, mind, and ideal) represents and belongs to only humans. By becoming aware of and overcoming these dualistic conceptions including the one between humans and animals, human knowledge of themselves and the world is expected to become more complete and holistic. The relationship between humans and animals (as well as the rest of the natural world) is often defined by the human rhetorical act of naming and categorizing animals through scientific and folk labeling. The act of naming partially defines the rhetorical relationships between humans and animals, though both may be understood to engage in rhetoric beyond human naming and categorizing.\n\nContrary to the binary assumptions deriving from anthropocentrism, which regarded animals as creatures without extraordinarily qualities, it does exist some specific animals with a sort of phrónēsis which confers them capabilities to \"learn and receive instruction\" with rudimentary understanding of some significant signs. Those animals do practice deliberative, judicial, and epideictic rhetoric deploying ethos, logos, and pathos with gesture and preen, sing and growl. Since animals offer models of rhetorical behavior and interaction that are physical, even instinctual, but perhaps no less artful, getting rid of our accustomed focus on verbal language and consciousness concepts will help people interested in rhetoric and communication matters promote human-animals' rhetoric.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe \"locus classicus\" for Greek and Latin primary texts on rhetoric is the Loeb Classical Library of the Harvard University Press, published with an English translation on the facing page.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44190667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44190667", "title": "Sarada Charan Das", "text": "Sarada Charan Das\n\nSarada Charan Das (1906-1992) was an Indian Bengali polymath, scientist, confectioner, entrepreneur and businessman. He was the youngest son and successor of Krishna Chandra Das (K.C. Das) and the grandson of the legendary Bengali confectioner Nobin Chandra Das (the inventor of the Rossogolla and widely known as the Columbus of Rossogolla ). Born in the year 1906 (in Bagbazaar, Kolkata, India), he established the first confectionery company in India, named K.C. Das Private Limited, in 1946. Sarada Charan had varied talents and interests,ranging from sports at the international level (being a member of the official Indian weight-lifting delegation at the Melbourne Olympics in 1956) to Bengali art and culture.<ref name=\"http://www.kcdas.co.in/sarada.php\">http://www.kcdas.co.in/sarada.php</ref> He is considered as the founding father of K.C. Das Private Limited and a major innovator and pioneer of the Bengali sweetmeat industry due to his contributions towards revamping, modernizing and scientifically standardizing the confectionery industry.\n\nSarada Charan was born in 1906 to the noted confectioner family of the Das'es of Bagbazar as the youngest son of Krishna Chandra Das (K.C. Das), in Kolkata, India. At the age of eighteen, Sarada Charan married Annapurna Devi (1912-1996) the twelve-year-old daughter of Dr. Mahendranath Indra, a reputed Civil Surgeon. Annapurna became the driving force behind her husband, and over the years grew to become the anchor of her large and extended family. Noted for the largeness of her heart and her hospitality and kindness, she left a deep impression on all who came in contact with her. Her interactions with the wide circle of her family, friends, husband’s friends and acquaintances were marked with genuine love and care, and it was generally acknowledged that the real moving spirit of the Das household was Annapurna.\n\nBeing of an intellectual bent of mind, in his early twenties, after completing a degree from Vidyasagar College, Sarada Charan initially pursued a career in scientific research under physicist and Nobel Laureate Sir C.V. Raman at the Rajabazar Science College, between 1926 and 1930. However, the expectations of his business family and the social customs of his times were not in favour of Sarada Charan's scientific ambitions. His father Krishna Chandra strongly opposed the idea of his son accepting any form of employment beyond the parameters of their prestigious family business. In order to engage and induct his youngest and apparently most talented son into the confectionery business, Krishna Chandra Das started a brand new venture at Jorasako in 1930 appointing Sarada Charan at the helm of affairs. This shop was christened after Krishna Chandra Das and later modified by Sarada Charan to its now universally recognised modern form “K.C. Das”. This is where father and son amalgamated their ideas to come up with the canned form of their family's signature dish Rossogolla in 1930; which was also the first canned sweet manufactured in India.\n\nAfter the early death of Krishna Chandra (K.C. Das) in 1934, Sarada Charan quickly expanded his father’s business beyond the Jorasanko shop. He added a number of new outlets in Kolkata, beginning with the shop at Esplanade East under his father’s name in 1935. This was the first time that the shop’s name was shortened to the crisper ‘K.C. Das’ from the original Krishna Chandra Das. This shop broke new ground in the traditional Bengali confectionery business in many ways.He introduced uniformed employees and western-style table service to seated customers. His passion for innovation took him to Japan in 1938, from where he brought back fine porcelain crockery for use in his shop, as well as Japanese handicrafts to be distributed to his customers as gifts.\n\nSarada Charan even revolutionized the way traditional Bengali sweets were packed, replacing the customary \"sal\" leaf packing with butter-paper lined white cardboard cake boxes in the manner of European confectioners. The family tradition of innovation in new sweets continued unbroken with Sarada Charan creating the first sweets for diabetics and the “Amrita Kumbha Sondesh”, an exciting departure from all extant conventions of shape and taste. He also introduced the “Sondesh Cake” and “Ice-cream Sondesh” in order to compete with western confectionery products and dairy desserts.\n\nSarada Charan’s greatest contribution, however, was not just to the final products of confectionery but to the cooking process itself. He conceived, designed and built a system to use steam generated from a boiler passed through steam-jacketed pans to cook traditional Indian sweetmeats,replacing the coal/wood burning stoves and conventional “kadais”.\n\nSarada Charan was a man of varied interests and passions. He became the chief patron of the Bagbazar United Club (established in 1924) and Bagbazar Gymnasium Club (established in 1910), and promoted their activities for many years. From organizing endurance swimming contests in the Ganga to being a member of the official Indian weight-lifting delegation at the Melbourne Olympics in 1956, he was actively involved for several decades in a wide range of sports and events. He had been the President of the prestigious Bagbazaar Sarbojanin Durgotsab and Exhibition Committee between 1961 and 1965. Sarada Charan was also the Founder Secretary of the Bagbazaar Sarbajonin Durgotsab Trust and thereafter became its President. He was also a member of the Indian Science Congress.\n\nSarada Charan was connected closely with the rise and flourishing of the Bengal School in the visual arts, being one of the most significant sponsors and patron of artists such as Jamini Roy, Shuvo Thakur and Gopal Ghosh. Jamini Roy's greatest gift of gratitute to his dear friend and benefactor Sarada Charan was his magnum opus – the “Ramayana”. Spread across seventeen canvases, Jamini Roy’s “Ramayana” is on display today at the Das residence “Rossogolla Bhavan\" in Kolkata. The Das residence today harbors the largest private collection of Jamini Roy paintings with 25 of the master’s originals.\n\nPerforming arts and artistes also drew his attention and interest, as many maestros of Hindusthani classical music and dance were invited to perform at his home. From Shanta Rao and Sitara Devi to Pandit Shamta Prasad, Birendra Kishore Roy Chowdhury of Gauripur and Ustad Dabir Khan, it was rare to find an artiste of stature in those decades who had not graced a soiree at the Das household. This galaxy of reputed musicians also included Anath Nath Basu, Dhirendra Chandra Mitra, Uday Bhushan Bhattacharya, Ata Hosein Khan and Shailaja Ranjan Majumdar, all of whom also taught music to the children of the Das household. Sarada Charan’s love for the arts ensured that each of his children was schooled formally in a performing art. His varied interests also helped to nurture his friendship with an illustrious circle drawn from every sphere of intellectual and cultural activity in India in those days. Dr. Bidhan Chandra Roy, the legendary physician-Chief Minister of West Bengal, was their family physician from the time of his grandmother,Khirodmoni Devi,(the grand-daughter of the legendary confectioner and poet Bhola Maira) and he held the family in great affection. Sarada Charan counted among his close friends the biologist J.B.S. Haldane and his wife, Bengali film stars Kanan Devi and Chhaya Devi, the statistician P.C. Mahalanobis, the revolutionary Lokenath Bal, Tagore disciple Amal Home, the scholars Nirmal Bose and Suniti Chattopadhyay, and many others. Completing this galaxy of luminaries were the Shankar family members: the internationally famous dancers Uday Shankar and Amala Shankar, the sitarist Pandit Ravi Shankar and their next generation - Ananda Shankar and Mamata Shankar, who were also related by marriage to Sarada Charan’s fourth son Dhirendranath Das. Apart from them were Dr. Panchanan Chattopadhyay, Dr. R. Ahmed, Dr. Bankim Mukhopadhyay, and the then leaders of Bengal Dhiren Mukhopadhyay, Atulya Ghosh and Prafulla Sen. The critical link between the medical luminaries and the Dases, was the brother of Annapurna, Dr. Major Hemanta Kumar Indra who retired as the Principal of R. G. Kar Medical College, Kolkata and was also the Deputy Director of Health Services, Government of West Bengal.\n\nSarada Charan’s bent of mind was highly scientific. Oriented towards innovations and discoveries, he spent a lot of his energies on new projects. In the early 1940s he purchased a small Austin car, and tried to run it on a fuel other than petrol. Though he was way ahead of his time in terms of such innovative ideas, hecould not make much headway. In 1948, both Sarada Charan and his wife went to Europe for one and a half years. They lived in London for a short while, and in Switzerland where they stayed close to a year. While in Switzerland he collaborated with the Swiss Company ‘Rebella’ and tried to start a whey drink in India, which did not succeed.\nIn the 1950s, he started a company called ‘Sunshade’ which produced awnings. Bata and Burma Shell were among its regular clientele. This company was managed by a friend of his and his third son. After the death of his friend the production trickled down and the venture had to be abandoned. Around the same time, Sarada Charan also tried to invent a mechanized tabla which could be tuned by turning knobs, instead of manually. Though all these projects were left incomplete, they illustrate the inventive and creative way in which his mind worked continually.\n\nIn 1955, Sarada Charan had a major disagreement with his second son Debendra Nath, leading to a permanent estrangement within the family. Debendra Nath left his ancestral home and family business and went on to establish an independent entity, K.C. Das Grandsons Private Limited, in 1956.\n\nTo combat acute scarcity of milk, the West Bengal government introduced a Milk Trade Control Order in 1965.This legislation severely curtailed the supply of milk to confectioners and resulted in a major negative impact on the business of Bengali confectioners. The K.C. Das company had to scale down operations drastically and barring the Esplanade establishment which sold savouries along with sweets, all the other K.C.Das shops were shut down, along with the historical Nobin Chandra Das establishment. West Bengal’s growing energy crisis and resultant shortage of electricity added to the organization’s problems.\nIt was in this context that the Sarada Charan started to explore alternative markets for his company.In 1972, Sarada Charan set up a factory and a shop in Bangalore. It has since then grown into a culinary landmark of the city, with the “Rossogolla” naturally the most popular of its products.\n\nSarada Charan Das also gave a research and development perspective to the company’s activities. In 1946, he set up a fully equipped laboratory, the Indian Scientific Industries, at Chitpur Road in Kolkata. Extensive research work there involved the bacterial culture required for “dahi” (curds). It also worked on the nutritional value of whey, and ways to package and market it as a soft drink. Commercialization of lactose and lactic acid from whey was another project. This laboratory also did pioneering work on making sweetmeats from soybean milk in the 1960s, but these could not be commercially produced or beneficially sustained in economic terms.<ref name=\"http://www.kcdas.co.in/rnd.php\">http://www.kcdas.co.in/rnd.php</ref>\n\nSarada Charan died at the age of 86, in 1992. His legacy continues to influence not only his own company but also the Bengali confectionery industry at large. On the occasion of Sarada Charan’s birth centenary in 2006 and the Platinum Jubliee of the “K.C. Das” confectionery, the company formally outlined its fourfold mission statement:\n\n(1) Focus on upholding the tradition and heritage of Bengali Sweets on the global platform and enhancing the global consumer’s awareness of traditional sweets and savories of India.\n\n(2) Standardizing the ingredient mix of indigenous sweetmeats and snack foods and upgrading and automating the production.\n\n(3) Focus on adopting suitable methods to control and standardize quality at every stage of the confectionery life-cycle, from raw-material procurement to the packaging of the product, thereby significantly increase the shelf-life of indigenous sweets and savories produced by mechanized processes.\n\n(4) To establish a worldwide vibrant market for Indian sweets and snacks.\n\nSarada Charan and Annapurna Devi had seven children, Rabindra Nath Das (1927-2000), Debendra Nath Das (1930-2010), Narendra Nath Das (1932-1993), Dhirendra Nath Das (1934–2018), Birendranath Das (1935–present), Monika Das (1937-1940) and Manjulika Das (1939-2012)\n\n"}
{"id": "39288405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39288405", "title": "Sidlaphadi", "text": "Sidlaphadi\n\n\"Sidlaphadi\" near Badami in Karnataka, is a natural rock bridge and pre historic rock shelter. It is located at about four km. in the middle of a shrub jungle near the historic town of Badami. A bridle and kutcha path through sandstone hills from Badami leads to Sidlaphadi and there is no metal road to the spot. \"Sidlaphadi\" literally means in Kannada the \"Rock of lightning\", derived from gaping holes in the natural rock arch, which was formed when a lightning struck.\nThe natural rock bridge structure looks like a \"wide arch\" between two sandstone boulders (served as a roof). The rock structure has large, gaping holes in the arch and allows sunlight to enter inside which provides the required light for interiors. It was also a shelter for hunter-gatherer prehistoric people.\n\nThere is a replica of Sidlaphadi in the Badami archaeological museum, it is dedicated to recreate Sidlaphadi and has posters to provide relevant information about the evolution of man.\n\nThere are evidences to prove that the Sidlaphadi was a dwelling of prehistoric man.\n\nThis natural rock bridge structure was studied by archaeologist Shri A. Sundar, who identified prehistoric (now fading) paintings on the roof of the arch. The blunt weapons of stone were also discovered in the area.\n\n"}
{"id": "51496520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51496520", "title": "Strongback (girder)", "text": "Strongback (girder)\n\nA strongback is a beam or girder which acts as a secondary support member to existing structure. A strongback in a staircase is usually ordinary two-by dimensional lumber attached to the staircase stringers to stiffen the assembly. In shipbuilding, a strongback is oriented lengthwise along a ship to brace across several frames in the case of hull damage.\n\nSome rockets like the Antares (rocket), the Falcon 9 and the Falcon Heavy use a strongback to restrain the rocket prior to launch. This structure reclines several degrees away from the rocket to clear the launch, either at the moment of launch or in some case a few minutes before. \n"}
{"id": "21097530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21097530", "title": "Tai Yi Shen Shu", "text": "Tai Yi Shen Shu\n\nTai Yi Shen Shu is a form of divination from China. It is also one of the Three Styles () of divination, the others being Da Liu Ren and Qi Men Dun Jia. \n\nTai Yi Shen Shu is used to predict macroscopic events like wars or the meaning of supernovae. One form of Tai Yi Shen Shu has been popularized over the centuries to predict personal fortunes. Genghis Khan, emperor of China, referred to Tai Yi at one point to decide whether or not his planned invasion of Japan would succeed. When the Tai Yi count indicated that invasion would prove unsuccessful, Khan decided not to invade Japan that year. Numerous similar examples abound in classical Chinese literature, especially among the dynastic histories.\n\nThe methodology is quite similar to the other arts with a rotating heavenly plate and fixed earthly plate. While the art makes use of the 8 trigrams as well as the 64 hexagrams as a foundation, analysis is conducted from the Tai Yi Cosmic Board and the array of symbols found thereon, with special reference to the position of symbols in specific palaces. Important symbols include the Calculator, the Scholar, Tai Yi and Tai Yi, for example. \n\nA number of spirits rotate around the sixteen palaces of the Tai Yi cosmic board, of which there are 72 cosmic boards for the Yin Dun period of each year, and 72 cosmic boards for the Yang Dun period of the year. The spirits land in different palaces with each configuration of the cosmic board. Each cosmic board contains a number of \"counts\" or numbers - the Host Count and the Guest Count taking primary importance over the Fixed Count. \n\n"}
{"id": "38856361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38856361", "title": "The Best Man Holiday", "text": "The Best Man Holiday\n\nThe Best Man Holiday is a 2013 American comedy-drama film written and directed by Malcolm D. Lee. A sequel to \"The Best Man\" (1999), it stars Morris Chestnut, Taye Diggs, Regina Hall, Terrence Howard, Sanaa Lathan, Nia Long, Harold Perrineau, Monica Calhoun, and Melissa De Sousa all reprising their roles. The film was released on November 15, 2013 by Universal Pictures, received positive reviews and grossed $71 million worldwide.\n\nMia Sullivan (Monica Calhoun), wife of Lance Sullivan (Morris Chestnut), has written letters requesting that the old gang should join them for Christmas: Harper Stewart (Taye Diggs) and his almost-nine-month-pregnant wife Robyn (Sanaa Lathan), Julian \"Murch\" Murchison (Harold Perrineau) and wife Candace Sparks (Regina Hall), her best friend Jordan Armstrong (Nia Long) and boyfriend Brian McDonald (Eddie Cibrian), Quentin \"Q\" Spivey (Terrence Howard), and Shelby Taylor (Melissa De Sousa). All the friends arrive at the house, the first time they've come together in 14 years, and the celebration begins. At dinner, the old friends catch up while tensions grow between Shelby and Candace.\n\nYears after his debut novel, Harper is struggling with writer's block, financial difficulties, and pressure from his publisher to come up with newer and better material for his next book. He has also been recently relieved of his faculty position at New York University, further complicating the couple's financial position. He kept all this from Robyn, as she is finally pregnant with their first child after years of expensive fertility treatments and the baby is almost full-term. His agent suggests he write a biography on his estranged friend, Lance, who is set to retire from football. Harper reluctantly agrees, but keeps the biography a secret.\n\nThe Murch family, which now includes two daughters, seems to be doing well. Julian opened the school he has worked hard to establish, with his wife, former stripper Candace, as his head of admissions. His main donor, however, abruptly ends his relationship with the school and Julian: he has been made aware of Candace's past and will not risk his reputation as a man of high morals. It is then that Julian finds a YouTube video of his wife stripping and accepting money for sex at a fraternity party. He confides in Q and shows him part of the video. Shelby is living the life she has always dreamed of: as a cast member of a popular \"The Real Housewives\" television show franchise, she is now a prominent and notorious reality television star and part of the social elite. Robyn is still insecure about Harper and Jordan's friendship. Q is now a successful brand manager and heavily connected to prominent celebrities.\n\nAfter arriving at the Sullivan home, Harper notices Mia's dramatic weight loss, but brushes it off and focuses on the reunion and gathering information about Lance for the biography.\n\nThe next day, Brian says goodbye to Jordan and leaves for his family's annual Christmas gathering in Vermont. As he leaves, Jordan tells him that, while she loves him, she does not need him. After dinner that night, the men dance and lip-sync to \"Can You Stand the Rain\" for the ladies to great response. All the couples in the house have sex that night, while Lance gives Mia a back-rub and Q sends risque photographs of himself to Shelby. Harper goes down to the kitchen, and as he heads back to bed, he finds Mia throwing up blood.\n\nMia reveals to Harper that she was diagnosed with cancer more than a year ago and is dying. After Lance walks in on the two talking, Mia explains to Lance that Harper knows. They both ask Harper to keep the condition a secret. At breakfast the next morning, Q and Shelby accidentally switch phones and Shelby finds the Candace video on Q's phone. She tries to use it to coerce Julian to resume his previous relationship with her, but Julian rebuffs her advances. Not long afterwards, Candace loses patience with Shelby and confronts her, which leads to a physical altercation between the two in front of Shelby's daughter, after which Candace leaves the house with her and Julian's daughters. Lance drives the men to his football practice, with Julian and Q starting a fight in the backseat, but Harper intervenes before it degenerates further.\n\nBack at the house, the ladies are preparing for a spa day when Mia collapses while trying to hang a Christmas ornament. Robyn and Jordan text Harper for Lance and the men quickly return to the house, forcing Harper to tell the rest of the friends about Mia's illness. As they leave, the friends all embrace Lance.\n\nBack at the house, everyone spends time with Mia. While Harper is wrapping gifts, Lance approaches him and the two reminisce about their college days and seem to overcome their differences. The next day, the gang volunteer at a shelter, with Q as a grudging Santa Claus. Harper and Lance seem to be as close as they were in the old days. Afterwards, Lance stumbles across Harper's iPad and journal in Mia's purse, and a mock book cover for his unauthorized biography on the tablet. Lance angrily confronts Harper and tells him to stay away from him and his family. Mia tries to calm Lance down to no avail. He takes Mia home, leaving Q and Harper the last two to leave the shelter. The two talk and Harper finally breaks down and admits the truth of his situation.\n\nBack at the Sullivan home, Robyn is going through Mia's old baby things when Candace returns with the kids. Candace tells Julian she regrets that one time she ever gave \"extra favors\" to a client and they reconcile. Lance is still heated over the biography when Mia confronts him. Mia challenges Lance to acknowledge the truth. She is to blame just as much as Harper is for the longtime feud between the two men. She reveals she slept with Harper (see The Best Man), even though she knew how much it would hurt Lance, because she was sick and tired of Lance cheating on her. Mia then takes off her wig, forcing Lance to also acknowledge the severity of her condition. The household gathers around the fireplace to listen to the children sing Christmas carols.\n\nThe next day is Christmas and Lance's big game. Brian returns to be with Jordan and the two reconcile. The women watch the game together as a family in Mia and Lance's bedroom, while the men attend the game. Lance starts a troublesome first half. Mia calls Harper to speak to Lance, inspiring him to ultimately break the all-time rushing record in a game-winning performance. After the game, the men rush home, so Lance can say goodbye to Mia before she dies.\n\nAt the funeral service, everyone but Lance is emotional. Shelby gives Julian a check for two million dollars, covering the funding gap created by the donor pull-out. All she asks for in return is a play date for their children. Inside the church, Harper gives a heartfelt eulogy. After everyone leaves, as Mia's casket is lowered into the grave, Lance finally breaks down. Harper witnesses this from a distance and rushes to Lance's aid, comforting him. Back at the house, everyone seems to have reconciled with one another after realizing what's really important in life. Outside, Harper and Lance make up and conclude a 14-year feud. Q and Shelby are shown in bed, with Q suggesting, before rolling out of bed, they may have a love connection. Meanwhile, Brian tells Julian that he knows some investors who can help with the school's funding. Robyn's water suddenly breaks, so Lance, Harper, and Candace all try to rush her to the hospital together. However, they get stuck in traffic and Lance delivers the baby in the backseat of his SUV. Robyn delivers a healthy baby girl and names her Mia, in honor of their deceased friend.\n\nTen months later, Harper and Lance are closer than ever and Harper has written Lance's biography. Lance is the baby's godfather, as he visits Harper and Robyn at their house in New York City. Harper gets a phone call from Q and puts it on speakerphone to share the call with Lance. Q reveals to both that he is getting married and wants Harper to be his best man, but not before telling Harper that he better not have had sex with his soon-to-be bride.\n\n\nIn October 2011, it was announced that a sequel to the 1999 film \"The Best Man\" was in development. On February 22, 2013, it was announced that the film would be titled \"The Best Man Holiday\". In March 2013, Terrence Howard who plays Quentin Spivey in the film revealed details about the film, saying: \"I think it's going to be amazing film and I get teary-eyed thinking about it because there's some tragedy in it. That's all I'll say…[Director and screenwriter] Malcolm Lee showed us what intelligent young black people were capable of in The Best Man I, but The Best Man II, it shows where people go, whether they're doing the right thing or the wrong thing, and how much we need each other within our community.\" Principal photography and production began in April 2013.\n\n\"The Best Man Holiday\" debuted with a $10.7 million Friday total, notably beating \"\" for the top box office spot of that day. \"The Best Man Holiday\" did even better the next day earning $12.4 million on Saturday. It then went on to be the number two film of the weekend, taking in close to $30.6 million.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 69% based on 85 reviews, with an average rating of 5.9/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"\"The Best Man Holiday\" manages honest laughs out of broad humor, and affects convincing drama from a deeply conventional plot.\" Metacritic gives the film a score of 59 out of 100, based on 30 critics, indictating \"mixed or average reviews\". CinemaScore reported that audiences gave the film a rare \"A+\" grade.\n\n\"The Washington Post\"s Ann Hornaday gave it 2.5 stars, saying the \"[s]equel is both a romp and a tearjerker... Like a long-lost soap opera emerging from a Rip Van Winkle–length hiatus, 'The Best Man Holiday' has lost none of its often baggy, saggy melodrama; luckily, when things get too soppy, Howard can be depended on for crude one-liners that land with all the more finesse thanks to his smoky, slightly stoned delivery. …And 'The Best Man Holiday' has clearly caught up with the times, with one plot point revolving around social media run amok, off-handedly invoking everyone from Barack Obama (natch) to Melissa Harris-Perry, Olivia Pope and Robin Thicke\".\n\nThe film's soundtrack includes songs by R. Kelly, Jordin Sparks, Mary J. Blige, Monica, Ne-Yo, Marsha Ambrosius, John Legend, Emeli Sandé, and more.\nAcapulco Black Film Festival\n\n14th BET Awards\n\n2014 Black Reel Awards\n\n2014 NAACP Image Awards\n\nOn July 22, 2014, Universal Pictures announced that a third film in the series, \"The Best Man Wedding\", was to be produced. The film would again be written and directed by Malcolm D. Lee and was scheduled to be released on April 15, 2016. With Warner Bros. \"\", another Malcolm D. Lee directed film, being scheduled for release on the same day and scheduling conflicts with \"The Best Man's\" ensemble cast, Universal Pictures moved back \"The Best Man Wedding\" release to sometime in 2017. In April 2016, the film was put on hold indefinitely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7776556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7776556", "title": "The Society in Dedham for Apprehending Horse Thieves", "text": "The Society in Dedham for Apprehending Horse Thieves\n\nThe Society in Dedham for Apprehending Horse Thieves is \"the oldest continually existing horse thief apprehending organization in the United States, and one of Dedham’s most venerable social organizations.\" Since its founding there have been more than 10,000 members including heads of state, Supreme Court justices, governors, popes, professors, generals, and other notables.\n\nAt one time membership of the \"ancient and well known society\" was limited to \"the pillars of society\" and the \"very flower and pick of the vigor, manhood and rising youth of the vicinity.\" It has also been said that \"for sheer whimsy, the Society... is without peer.\" Today it is a tax exempt non-profit social organization that continues to meet \"just in case.\"\n\nAt the turn of the 19th century the citizens of Dedham, Massachusetts came together to combat the rash of horse thievery that was afflicting their community. At the time, \"this posse of vigilantes was a real civic necessity,\" and during that time period at least 72 such organizations existed in New England. Thirteen men first met on June 4, 1810, at Marsh’s Tavern on Court Street and opened a subscription list, noting that\nThe great number of horses stolen from amongst us and in our vicinity is truly alarming, and calls for the attention of every well-disposed Citizen. It is evident that there has been, and probably will continue, a combination of Villains through the northern states to carry into effect this malignant design, and their frequent escape from the hand of justice stimulates them to that atrocious practice. And as that kind of property is most liable to be carried out of our knowledge, it requires the utmost exertion of every good member of society, to baffle and suppress depredations of this kind...\nOn May 4, 1832, the Society opened a bank account at the Dedham Institution for Savings and the account remains open today, and the bank claims that the account \"may be the oldest continuously active account in the United States.\" It is the oldest active account at Dedham Savings.\n\nAnyone may be nominated for membership so long as the $10 (In 1906 it was $1) membership fee is paid. Applications for membership in the Society must be approved by a majority vote by current members and a \"controversial nomination years ago of Ayatollah Khamenei of Iran was not seconded.\" By 1960, the president of the Society reported that \"memberships are as coveted as the Kentucky Colonels.\"\n\nThe person receiving honor of the membership in the society need not even know that they had been nominated. Robert Hanson, who has followed in the steps of his father and grandfather as clerk-treasurer of the Society, has said \"I've always wondered what the reaction in the Vatican mail room is when they open the envelope and see the certificate.\" Former Massachusetts governor Michael Dukakis is a member, though when a reporter asked him he said he had never heard of the Society.\n\nMembership was originally limited to residents of Dedham but restrictions were loosened over the years to limit membership to residents of Norfolk County; or to residents of Norfolk and Suffolk Counties; or to persons resident within a 20-mile radius of the Norfolk County Courthouse; or to residents of Dedham, Norwood, Westwood, or Dover. Eventually all residency restrictions were lifted. The club's website claims that Robert Ripley of Ripley's Believe It or Not! fame had applied for membership before this restriction was eliminated, and the clerk-treasurer returned his application with a note rejecting his application.\nDear Mr. Ripley:\n\nSince you are not a resident of Dedham (or Norwood, or Westwood, or Dover, or Norfolk County, of Suffolk County), you cannot join our Society.\n\nBelieve it or not,\n\nCharles M. Gibson.\n\nThe Society has been called upon four times and there is only one instance of a horse thief being caught by the Society.\n\nIn 1906 an animal was stolen from Scarry’s Livery Stable on Eastern Avenue. The alarm was raised, fliers were distributed, and members set off in motor cars, but they failed to find the stolen horse. While by this time the Town of Dedham had a professional police force who was primarily responsible for tracking down the thief, at one point the chief of police was reporting to the Society.\n\nThe clerk of the society reported at the annual meeting that though the animal was not recovered, it was not for a lack of trying: \"It is only fair to the Riders of this Society to state that the owner of the horse even consulted mediums in his efforts to find the horse. This only proves that our Riders did their full duty, as the horse could not be found.\"\n\nBy 1906, with the advent of the automobile, the world, and the Society, were changing, prompting the \"Boston Herald\" to run the following Dedham Dittie:\nIt was not like that in the olden says in dear old Dedham town,\n\nIn the limping, scrimping olden days, when they ran a horse thief down.\n\nThen each man rode off on his fastest horse, and he rode both fast and far,\n\nBut now the rider hunts the thief in a chugging motor car.\nThe last time the Society investigated a horse theft was in 1909, although though a number of pranks between members set off false alarms after that. In days when vigilante justice was a major component of the Society, \"not a few horse thieves were apprehended by the organization of the long name.\"\n\nBy 1915, it was said that \"without doubt\" the organization's existence scared away potential horse thieves, as evidenced by the decreasing number of thefts of horses and increasing number of automobile thefts. President George F. Joyce proposed changing the purpose of the organization to those who steal automobiles and auto parts. In 1921 and 1924, the Society was still debating whether to turn its attention to car thieves. In 1925 no horses were stolen, but a cow was recovered.\n\nIn 1932, it was proposed that a Society in Dedham for Apprehending Hit-and-Run Drivers would be a good successor organization. It was also predicted that by 2032, when human flight would be common, that there would be a Society for Apprehending Reckless Aviators over Dedham. A newspaper in West Virginia once suggested that the Society not only turn its attention to catching auto thieves, but anarchists as well.\n\nBy 1899, horse thefts were becoming so rare that newspapers as far away as The Evening Times of Washington, D.C. were noting that \"it might seem to the ordinary observer that the members ought to devote themselves to something worth doing, now that their particular object in life has disappeared.\" However, in 1931 it was said that \"Dedham doesn't purpose to let an old tradition languish simply for lack of horse thieves.\"\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, under the guidance of its new president, Dr. Edward Knobel, its annual meeting became a social event with dinner, drink, and entertainment. Elbert Hubbard was the keynote speaker at the annual dinner in 1908. He spoke on the poetry of Robert Browning and said \"a more refined and intelligent audience I never saw.\" He reported that the membership was limited to 350 men and that there was a perpetual waiting list to join with \"the slightest fleck on your social record\" being cause to be rejected.\n\nThe organization met in a variety of taverns and other public buildings around town throughout the years. In 1893 the annual meeting was held at the Grand Army of the Republic hall in Dedham Square, and 1907 the organization met at Greenleaf Hall. By 1920, and as late as 1956, it met at Memorial Hall, where the Police Station now stands. Eventually the meetings moved to the old high school around the time of the First World War and then to the current high school when it was constructed in the 1960s. While alcohol was forbidden in the schools, it was a convenient setup with both a cafeteria and an auditorium, and surprise was expressed yearly at the variety of colors of \"water\" in glasses. Attendance steadily increased at the annual meeting and beginning in the 1970s the organization met at Moseley’s on the Charles.\n\nIn the early 1900s, the committee of Riders were elected based on their weight, \"so that when a thief is captured his captors can sit on him to prevent him from escaping.\" Riders were required to weigh at least 200 pounds.\n\nThe organization represented New England at the 1964 New York World's Fair. Today, donations are occasionally made to local charitable organizations.\n\nThe annual meeting of the Society takes place on the first Tuesday of December each year. At the 192nd annual meeting in 2002 \"more than 200 proud members... toasted their success last night at their annual meeting, a bacchanalian affair featuring bad jokes, old-time music, a generous amount of both spirit and spirits and a virtual who's who of political and business life.\" In 2007 members came from as far away as California, just to attend the dinner. One member, whose \"hulking frame could barely contain his enthusiasm for the group,\" told a reporter that the annual meeting was \"the greatest event in the history of Dedham, ever. And the best part is, it has no redeeming value whatsoever, except for pointless fun and unbelievable camaraderie.\"\n\nSome years, photos of horses are brought in \"to acquaint riders who may never have seen one before.\" For many years it was a men's only club, but in 2012 Margo Pyle became the Society's first Rider, or one who is responsible for searching for horse thieves when one is stolen. Being elected a Rider is \"a position of signal honor.\"\n\nWhile many similar private anti-theft organizations existed at the time the Society was founded, there have been at least two organizations inspired by the Society directly. In 1841, 42 of 76 original members began a new organization, the Society in Dedham for Apprehending and Prosecuting Thieves. The Society in Hampton Beach for the Apprehension of Those Falsely Accusing Eunice (Goody) Cole of Having Familiarity with the Devil was formed in 1936 in direct response to learning about the Society in Dedham.\n\nThe Horse Thieves Tavern at the corner of Washington and High Streets in Dedham Square also took its name from the Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "994299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=994299", "title": "Trans-cultural diffusion", "text": "Trans-cultural diffusion\n\nIn cultural anthropology and cultural geography, cultural diffusion, as conceptualized by Leo Frobenius in his 1897/98 publication \"Der westafrikanische Kulturkreis\", is the spread of cultural items—such as ideas, styles, religions, technologies, languages—between individuals, whether within a single culture or from one culture to another. It is distinct from the diffusion of innovations within a specific culture. Examples of diffusion include the spread of the war chariot and iron smelting in ancient times, and the use of automobiles and Western business suits in the 20th century.\n\nFive major types of cultural diffusion have been defined:\n\nInter-cultural diffusion can happen in many ways. Migrating populations will carry their culture with them. Ideas can be carried by trans-cultural visitors, such as merchants, explorers, soldiers, diplomats, slaves, and hired artisans. Technology diffusion has often occurred by one society luring skilled scientists or workers by payments or other inducement. Trans-cultural marriages between two neighboring or interspersed cultures have also contributed. Among literate societies, diffusion can occur through letters, books, and, in modern times, through electronic media.\n\nThere are three categories of diffusion mechanisms:\n\nDirect diffusion was common in ancient times, when small groups of humans lived in adjoining settlements. Indirect diffusion is common in today's world because of the mass media and invention of the Internet. Also of interest is the work of American historian and critic Daniel J. Boorstin in his book \"The Discoverers\", in which he provides an historical perspective on the role of explorers in the diffusion of innovations between civilizations.\n\nThe many models that have been proposed for inter-cultural diffusion are:\n\nA concept that has often been mentioned in this regard, which may be framed in the evolutionary diffusionism model, is that of \"an idea whose time has come\" — whereby a new cultural item appears almost simultaneously and independently in several widely separated places, after certain prerequisite items have diffused across the respective communities. This concept was invoked with regard to the independent development of calculus by Newton and Leibnitz, and the inventions of the airplane and of the electronic computer.\n\nHyperdiffusionists deny that parallel evolution or independent invention took place to any great extent throughout history; they claim that all major inventions and all cultures can be traced back to a single culture.\n\nEarly theories of hyperdiffusionism can be traced to ideas about South America being the origin of mankind. Antonio de León Pinelo, a Spaniard who settled in Bolivia, claimed in his book \"Paraíso en el Nuevo Mundo\" that the Garden of Eden and the creation of man had occurred in present-day Bolivia and that the rest of the world was populated by migrations from there. Similar ideas were also held by Emeterio Villamil de Rada; in his book \"La Lengua de Adán\" he attempted to prove that Aymara was the original language of mankind and that humanity had originated in Sorata in the Bolivian Andes. The first scientific defence of humanity originating in South America came from the Argentine paleontologist Florentino Ameghino in 1880, who published his research in \"La antigüedad del hombre en el Plata\".\n\nThe work of Grafton Elliot Smith fomented a revival of hyperdiffusionism in 1911; he asserted that copper–producing knowledge spread from Egypt to the rest of the world along with megalithic culture. Smith claimed that all major inventions had been made by the ancient Egyptians and were carried to the rest of the world by migrants and voyagers. His views became known as \"Egyptocentric-Hyperdiffusionism\". William James Perry elaborated on Smith's hypothesis by using ethnographic data. Another hyperdiffusionist was Lord Raglan; in his book \"How Came Civilization\" (1939) he wrote that instead of Egypt all culture and civilization had come from Mesopotamia. Hyperdiffusionism after this did not entirely disappear, but it was generally abandoned by mainstream academia.\n\nDiffusion theory has been advanced as an explanation for the \"European miracle\", the adoption of technological innovation in medieval Europe which by the 17th century culminated in European technological achievement surpassing the Islamic world and China. \nSuch technological import to medieval Europe include gunpowder, clock mechanisms, shipbuilding, paper and the windmill, however, in each of these cases Europeans not only adopted the technologies, but improved the manufacturing scale, inherent technology, and applications to a point clearly surpassing the evolution of the original invention in its country of origin.\n\nHistorians have questioned recently whether Europe really owes the development of such inventions as gunpowder, the compass, the windmill or printing to the Chinese or other cultures.\n\nHowever historian Peter Frankopan argues that influences, particularly trade, through the middle east & central Asia to China through the silk roads have been overlooked in traditional histories of the \"rise of the west\". He argues that the renaissance was funded with trade with the east (due to the demise of Byzantium at the hands of Venice and the 4th Crusade), and that the trade allowed ideas and technology to be shared with Europe. But the constant warfare and rivalry in Europe meant there was extreme evolutionary pressure for developing these ideas for military and economic advantage, and a desperate need to use them in expansion.\n\nWhile the concept of diffusion is well accepted in general, conjectures about the existence or the extent of diffusion in some specific contexts have been hotly disputed. An example of such disputes is the proposal by Thor Heyerdahl that similarities between the culture of Polynesia and the pre-Columbian civilizations of the Andes are due to diffusion from the latter to the former—a theory that currently has few supporters among professional anthropologists.\nHeyerdahl's theory of Polynesian origins has not gained acceptance among anthropologists.\n\nMajor contributors to inter-cultural diffusion research and theory include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8477540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8477540", "title": "Uncanny", "text": "Uncanny\n\nThe uncanny is the psychological experience of something as \"strangely familiar\", rather than simply mysterious. It may describe incidents where a familiar thing or event is encountered in an unsettling, eerie, or taboo context.\n\nThe concept of the uncanny was perhaps first fixed by Sigmund Freud in his 1919 essay \"Das Unheimliche\", which explores the eeriness of dolls and waxworks. For Freud, the uncanny locates the strangeness in the ordinary. Expanding on the idea, psychoanalytic theorist Jacques Lacan wrote that the uncanny places us \"in the field where we do not know how to distinguish bad and good, pleasure from displeasure\", resulting in an irreducible anxiety that gestures to the Real. The concept has since been taken up by a variety of subsequent thinkers and theorists such as Roboticist Masahiro Mori's \"uncanny valley\" hypothesis and Julia Kristeva's concept of abjection.\n\nPhilosopher F. W. J. Schelling raised the question of the uncanny in his late \"Philosophie der Mythologie\" of 1835, postulating that the Homeric clarity was built upon a prior repression of the uncanny.\n\nIn \"The Will to Power\" manuscript, German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche refers to nihilism as \"the uncanniest of all guests\" and, earlier, in \"On the Genealogy of Morals\" he argues it is the \"will to truth\" that has destroyed the metaphysics that underpins the values of Western culture. Hence, he coins the phrase \"European nihilism\" to describe the condition that afflicts those Enlightenment ideals that seemingly hold strong values yet undermine themselves.\n\nUncanniness was first explored psychologically by Ernst Jentsch in a 1906 essay, \"On the Psychology of the Uncanny\". Jentsch defines the \"Uncanny\" as: being a product of \"...intellectual uncertainty; so that the uncanny would always, as it were, be something one does not know one’s way about in. The better oriented in his environment a person is, the less readily will he get the impression of something uncanny in regard to the objects and events in it.\" He expands upon its use in fiction:\n\nJentsch identifies German writer E.T.A. Hoffmann as a writer who uses uncanny effects in his work, focusing specifically on Hoffmann's story \"The Sandman\" (\"Der Sandmann\"), which features a lifelike doll, Olympia.\n\nThe concept of the Uncanny was later elaborated on and developed by Sigmund Freud in his 1919 essay \"The Uncanny\", which also draws on the work of Hoffmann (whom Freud refers to as the \"unrivalled master of the uncanny in literature\"). However, he criticizes Jentsch's belief that Olympia is the central uncanny element in the story (\"The Sandman\"):\n\nInstead, Freud draws on a wholly different element of the story, namely, \"the idea of being robbed of one's eyes\", as the \"more striking instance of uncanniness\" in the tale.\n\nFreud goes on, for the remainder of the essay, to identify uncanny effects that result from instances of \"repetition of the same thing,\" linking the concept to that of the repetition compulsion. He includes incidents wherein one becomes lost and accidentally retraces one's steps, and instances wherein random numbers recur, seemingly meaningfully (here Freud may be said to be prefiguring the concept that Jung would later refer to as synchronicity). He also discusses the uncanny nature of Otto Rank's concept of the \"double\".\n\nFreud specifically relates an aspect of the \"Uncanny\" derived from German etymology. By contrasting the German adjective \"unheimlich\" with its base word \"heimlich\" (\"concealed, hidden, in secret\"), he proposes that social taboo often yields an aura not only of pious reverence but even more so of horror and even disgust, as the taboo state of an item gives rise to the commonplace assumption that that which is hidden from \"public eye\" (cf. the \"eye\" or \"sight\" metaphor) must be a dangerous threat and even an abomination – especially if the concealed item is obviously or presumingly sexual in nature. Basically, the \"Uncanny\" is what unconsciously reminds us of our own \"Id\", our forbidden and thus repressed impulses – especially when placed in a context of uncertainty that can remind one of infantile beliefs in the omnipotence of thought. Such uncanny elements are perceived as threatening by our \"super-ego\" ridden with oedipal guilt as it fears symbolic castration by punishment for deviating from societal norms. Thus, the items and individuals that we project our own repressed impulses upon become a most \"uncanny\" threat to us, \"uncanny\" monsters and freaks akin to fairy-tale folk-devils, and subsequently often become scapegoats we blame for all sorts of perceived miseries, calamities, and maladies.\n\nAfter Freud, Jacques Lacan, in his 1962–1963 seminar \"L'angoisse\" (\"Anxiety\"), used the Unheimlich \"via regia\" to enter into the territory of Angst. Lacan showed how the same image that seduces the subject, trapping him in the narcissistic impasse, may suddenly, by a contingency, show that it is dependent on something, some hidden object, and so the subject may grasp at the same time that he is not autonomous (5 December 1962). For example, and as a paradigm, Guy de Maupassant, in his story \"Le Horla\", describes a man who suddenly may see his own back in the mirror. His back is there, but it is deprived of the gaze of the subject. It appears as a strange object, until he feels it is his own. There is no cognitive dissonance here, we rather cross all possible cognition, to find ourselves in the field where we do not know how to distinguish bad and good, pleasure from displeasure. And this is the signal of anxiety: the signal of the real, as irreducible to any signifier.\n\nHitchcock was the master in the art of conducing art into the world of Unheimlich. He used simple, everyday objects who may suddenly lose their familiar side, and become the messenger of beyond narcissism.\n\nThis concept is closely related to Julia Kristeva's concept of abjection, where one reacts adversely to something forcefully cast out of the symbolic order. Abjection can be uncanny in that the observer can recognize something within the abject, possibly of what it was before it was 'cast out', yet be repulsed by what it is that caused it to be cast out to begin with. Kristeva lays special emphasis on the uncanny return of the past abject with relation to the 'uncanny stranger'.\n\nSadeq Rahimi has noted a common relationship between the uncanny and direct or metaphorical visual references, which he explains in terms of basic processes of ego development, specifically as developed by Lacan's theory of the mirror stage. Rahimi presents a wide range of evidence from various contexts to demonstrate how uncanny experiences are typically associated with themes and metaphors of vision, blindness, mirrors and other optical tropes. He also presents historical evidence showing strong presence of ocular and specular themes and associations in the literary and psychological tradition out of which the notion of 'the uncanny' emerged. According to Rahimi, instances of the uncanny like doppelgängers, ghosts, \"déjà vu\", alter egos, self-alienations and split personhoods, phantoms, twins, living dolls, etc. share two important features: that they are closely tied with visual tropes, and that they are variations on the theme of doubling of the ego.\n\nRoboticist Masahiro Mori's \"uncanny valley\" hypothesis (describing human reactions to human-like robots) describes the gap between familiar living people and their also familiar inanimate representations, such as statues or pictures. The things in the valley are between these two poles of common phenomena. The hypothesis is deeply indebted to Jentsch and Freud's observations.\n\n\"Canny\" is from the Anglo-Saxon root \"ken\": \"knowledge, understanding, or cognizance; mental perception: \"an idea beyond one's ken\".\" Thus the uncanny is something outside one's familiar knowledge or perceptions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1282233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1282233", "title": "University of Applied Arts Vienna", "text": "University of Applied Arts Vienna\n\nThe University of Applied Arts Vienna (, or informally just \"Die Angewandte\") is an arts university and institution of higher education in Vienna, the capital of Austria. It has had university status since 1970.\n\nThe predecessor of the \"Angewandte\" was founded in 1863 as the \"k. k. Kunstgewerbeschule\" (Vienna School of Arts and Crafts), following the example of the South Kensington Museum in London, now the Victoria & Albert Museum, to set up a place of advanced education for designers and craftsmen with the Arts and Crafts School in Vienna. It was closely associated with the \"Österreichischen Museums für Kunst und Industrie\" (Imperial Royal Austrian Museum of Art and Industry, today known as the MAK). \n\nIt was the first school of its kind on the continent. In 1941 it became an institution of higher education. 1941-45 it was called \"Reichshochschule fuer angewandte Kunst\", and in 1948 was taken over by the Austrian state as an academy. In 1970 it was awarded the title of a university and in 1998 it was renamed the \"Universität für angewandte Künste\" (\"University of applied arts\").\n\nFamous artists such as Gustav Klimt, Oskar Kokoschka, Koloman Moser, Vivienne Westwood, Karl Lagerfeld,Jean-Charles de Castelbajac, Jil Sander, Pipilotti Rist, Matteo Thun, François Valentiny, Hugo Markl and Stefan Sagmeister were part of the university's staff or student body. Today its faculty includes many distinguished artists and teachers, such as Judith Eisler, Erwin Wurm, Hartmut Esslinger, Greg Lynn, Wolf D Prix (of Coop Himmelb(l)au), Peter Weibel and the philosopher Burghart Schmidt.\n\nThe university has currently ca. 1,800 students and c. 380 faculty. The students come from 70 different countries to study in the 29 disciplines of the school, structured in 60% Austrians, 25% Europeans and 15% from other countries. The outcome of their processes is made public in ca. 200 exhibitions a year and a multitude of different events and other public presentations.\n\nNotable alumni from the University are\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47988234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47988234", "title": "Women in music", "text": "Women in music\n\nWomen in music describes the role of women as composers, songwriters, instrumental performers, singers, conductors, music scholars, music educators, music critics/music journalists and other musical professions. As well, it describes music movements (e.g., women's music, which is music written and performed by women for women), events and genres related to women, women's issues and feminism. In the 2010s, while women constitute a significant proportion of popular music and classical music singers, and a significant proportion of songwriters (many of them being singer-songwriters), there are few women record producers, rock critics and rock instrumentalists. Notable women artists in pop, such as Bjork and Lady Gaga have commented about sexism and gender discrimination in the music industry. Additionally, a recent study led by Dr. Smith announced that \"...over the last six years, the representation of women in the music industry has been even lower\". In classical music, although there have been a huge number of women composers from the Medieval period to the present day, women composers are significantly underrepresented in the commonly performed classical music repertoire, music history textbooks and music encyclopedias; for example, in the \"Concise Oxford History of Music\", Clara Schumann is one of the only female composers who is mentioned.\n\nWomen constitute a significant proportion of instrumental soloists in classical music and the percentage of women in orchestras is increasing. A 2015 article on concerto soloists in major Canadian orchestras, however, indicated that 84% of the soloists with the Orchestre Symphonique de Montreal were men. In 2012, women still made up just 6% of the top-ranked Vienna Philharmonic orchestra. Women are less common as instrumental players in popular music genres such as rock and heavy metal, although there have been a number of notable female instrumentalists and all-female bands. Women are particularly underrepresented in extreme metal genres. Women are also underrepresented in orchestral conducting, music criticism/music journalism, music producing, and sound engineering. While women were discouraged from composing in the 19th century, and there are few women musicologists, women became involved in music education \"to such a degree that women dominated [this field] during the later half of the 19th century and well into the 20th century.\"\n\nAccording to Jessica Duchen, a music writer for London's \"The Independent\", women musicians in classical music are \"too often judged for their appearances, rather than their talent\" and they face pressure \"to look sexy onstage and in photos.\" Duchen states that while \"[t]here are women musicians who refuse to play on their looks...the ones who do tend to be more materially successful.\" According to the UK's Radio 3 editor, Edwina Wolstencroft, the music industry has long been open to having women in performance or entertainment roles, but women are much less likely to have positions of authority, such as being the conductor of an orchestra, a profession which has been called \"one of the last glass ceilings in the music industry\". In popular music, while there are many women singers recording songs, there are very few women behind the audio console acting as music producers, the individuals who direct and manage the recording process. One of the most recorded artists is a woman, Asha Bhosle, an Indian singer who is best known as a playback singer in Hindi cinema.\n\nA songwriter is an individual who writes the lyrics, melodies and chord progressions for songs, typically for a popular music genre such as pop, rock or country music. A songwriter can also be called a composer, although the latter term tends to be mainly used for individuals from the classical music genre.\n\n\"Only a few of the many women [songwriters] in America had their music published and heard during the late 19th and early 20th centuries.\" According to Richard A. Reublin and Richard G. Beil, the \"lack of mention of women [songwriters] is a glaring and embarrassing omission in our musical heritage.\" Women \"struggled to write and publish music in the man's world of 20th century Tin Pan Alley. Prior to 1900 and even after, it was expected that \"women would perform music, not make music.\" In 1880, Chicago music critic George P. Upton wrote the book \"Women In Music\", in which he argued that \"women lacked the innate creativity to compose good music\" due to the \"biological predisposition\" of women. Later, it was accepted that women would have a role in music education, and they became involved in this field \"to such a degree that women dominated music education during the later half of the 19th century and well into the 20th century.\" As part of women's role in music education, women wrote hymns and children's music. The \"secular music in print in America before 1825 shows only about 70 works by women.\" In the mid 19th century, notable women songwriters emerged, including Faustina Hasse Hodges, Susan Parkhurst, Augusta Browne and Marion Dix Sullivan. By 1900, there were many more women songwriters, but \"many were still forced to use pseudonyms or initials\" to hide the fact that they were women.\n\nCarrie Jacobs-Bond was the \"preeminent woman composer of the late 1800's and well into the middle of the twentieth century... [making her] the first million selling woman\" songwriter. Maude Nugent (1877–1958) wrote \"Sweet Rosie O'Grady\" in 1896. She also penned \"Down At Rosie Reilly's Flat\", \"My Irish Daisy\" and \"Mary From Tipperary\". Charlotte Blake (1885–1979) was a staff writer for at the Whitney Warner Publishing Co., in Detroit, Michigan. Initially, the company billed her as \"C. Blake\" to hide her gender, but by 1906 ads used her full name. Caro Roma (1866–1937) was the gender-ambiguous pseudonym for Carrie Northly. She was \"one of America's more well known and popular composers of the Tin Pan Alley era.\" Her songs include \"Can't Yo' Heah Me Calling\", \"Faded Rose\", \"The Angelus\", \"Thinking of Thee\" and \"Resignation\". About 95% of the songwriters in British music hall during the early 1900s were men; however, about 30% of the singers were women.\n\nWhile jazz songwriting has long been a male-dominated field, there have been a few notable women jazz songwriters. In the 1930s, Ann Ronell (1905–1993) wrote several hit songs. She is known for her 1932 hit song \"Willow Weep for Me\" and the 1933 Disney song \"Who's Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?\". Irene Higginbotham (1918–1988) wrote almost 50 songs, her best-known being \"Good Morning Heartache\". Dorothy Fields (1905–1974) wrote the lyrics for over 400 songs, some of which were played by Duke Ellington. She co-wrote \"The Way You Look Tonight\" with Jerome Kern, which won the 1936 Oscar for Best Song. She co-wrote several jazz standards with Jimmy McHugh, such as \"Exactly Like You,\" \"On the Sunny Side of the Street\" and \"I Can't Give You Anything but Love.\" Lil Hardin Armstrong (1898–1971) played piano in King Oliver's Creole Jazz Band. Her most famous song, \"Struttin' with Some Barbecue\" has been recorded 500 times. Her other notable songs are \"Doin' the Suzie Q,\" \"Just for a Thrill\" and \"Bad Boy\". While Billie Holiday (1915–1959) is best known as a singer, she co-wrote \"God Bless the Child\" and \"Don't Explain\" with Arthur Herzog, Jr. and she penned the blues song \"Fine and Mellow.\"\n\nIn the 1960s pop music scene, \"[l]ike most aspects of the...music business [in the 1960s], songwriting was a male-dominated field. Though there were plenty of female singers on the radio, women ...were primarily seen as consumers:... Singing was sometimes an acceptable pastime for a girl, but playing an instrument, writing songs, or producing records simply wasn't done.\" Young women \"were not socialized to see themselves as people who create [music].\" Carole King \"had a successful songwriting partnershi[p] with husband Gerry Goffin, penning hits like \"The Loco-Motion,\" \"Will You Love Me Tomorrow\", \"Up on the Roof\" and \"Natural Woman\". \"King was the first female recipient of the 2013 Gershwin Prize for Popular Song.\" Ellie Greenwich and her husband Jeff Barry wrote \"Then He Kissed Me\", \"Be My Baby\" and \"River Deep, Mountain High\". Laura Nyro penned \"Wedding Bell Blues\", \"Eli's Coming\" and \"And When I Die\". She stated \"I'm not interested in conventional limitations when it comes to my songwriting….I may bring a certain feminist perspective to my songwriting.\"\nBy the late 1960s a new wave of female singer-songwriters broke from the confines of pop, using the urban landscape as their canvass for lyrics in the confessional style of poets like Anne Sexton and Sylvia Plath. These pioneering women, appeared in a feature in Newsweek, July, 1969, \"The Girls: Letting Go\": \"What is common to them – to Joni Mitchell and Lotti Golden, to Laura Nyro, Melanie, Janis Ian and to Elyse Weinberg, are the personalised songs they write, like voyages of self-discovery. Grace Slick a former model, was widely known in rock and roll history for her role in San Francisco's burgeoning psychedelic music scene in the mid–1960s.\" In \"The Guardian\", 26 January 2017, author Laura Barton describes the radical shift in subject matter — politics, drugs, disappointment, the isolation of the itinerant performer, and urban life. Native New Yorker, Lotti Golden, in her Atlantic debut album \"Motor-Cycle\", chronicled her life in NYC's East Village in the late '60s counterculture, visiting subjects such as gender identity (The Space Queens-Silky is Sad) and excessive drug use (Gonna Fay's). The women in the 1969 Newsweek article ushered in a new age of the singer-songwriter, informing generations of women singer-songwriters.\n\nIn musical theatre, \"female songwriters are rare in an industry dominated by males on the creative end. Work by male songwriters is more often produced, and it was only [in 2015] that an all-female writing team made history by winning the Tony Award for Best Score.\" In 2015, for the first time, an all-female writing team of Lisa Kron (Best Book) and Jeanine Tesori and Kron (Best Original Score) won the Tony Award for Best Score for \"Fun Home\", although work by male songwriters continues to be produced more often. In 2013, Cyndi Lauper was the \"first female composer to win the [Tony for] Best Score without a male collaborator\" for writing the music and lyrics for \"Kinky Boots\". Notable female songwriters in musical theatre include singer-songwriter and actress Lauren Pritchard, who wrote \"Songbird\"; Zoe Sarnak, who wrote \"A Lasting Impression\" and \"The Years Between\"; and Katie Thompson, who would like to \"see women characters... that are complicated and strong and vulnerable.\" Thompson stated that in the musical theatre industry, \"when you fight for something as a woman, especially an artistic thing ..you are either perceived as being a bitch or you are perceived [as] 'emotional'\", a label that enables others to dismiss you.\n\nAccording to LaShonda Katrice Barnett, a college and university teacher and author of a book on black women songwriters, of the \"over 380 members of the Songwriters Hall of Fame, just 2 are black women (Sylvia Moy and Valerie Simpson)\". Barnett asks \"[w]hy are there so few prominent black women songwriters?\" Barnett states that two important black women songwriters are Abbey Lincoln, a rare example of a jazz singer who wrote her own albums and Cassandra Wilson, who records both her own songs and \"covers\" of famous artists.\n\nBelow is a selection of notable songwriters. Many of these individuals are singer-songwriters who also famous for their singing and/or instrumental performance skills, but they are listed here for their accomplishments in songwriting:\n\n\nAmerican musicologist Marcia Citron has asked \"[w]hy is music composed by women so marginal to the standard 'classical' repertoire?\" Citron \"examines the practices and attitudes that have led to the exclusion of women composers from the received 'canon' of performed musical works.\" She argues that in the 1800s, women composers typically wrote art songs for performance in small recitals rather than symphonies intended for performance with an orchestra in a large hall, with the latter works being seen as the most important genre for composers; since women composers did not write many symphonies, they were deemed to be not notable as composers.\n\nAccording to Abbey Philips, \"women musicians have had a very difficult time breaking through and getting the credit they deserve\". During the Medieval eras, most of the art music was created for liturgical (religious) purposes and due to the views about the roles of women that were held by religious leaders, few women composed this type of music, with the nun Hildegard von Bingen being among the exceptions. Most university textbooks on the history of music discuss almost exclusively the role of male composers. As well, very few works by women composers are part of the standard repertoire of classical music. In the \"Concise Oxford History of Music\", Clara Schumann is the only woman composer who is mentioned. Philips states that \"[d]uring the 20th century the women who were composing/playing gained far less attention than their male counterparts\".\n\nHildegard von Bingen (1098–1179) was a German Benedictine abbess, composer, writer, philosopher, and visionary. One of her works as a composer, the \"Ordo Virtutum\", is an early example of liturgical drama and an early morality play. Some writers have speculated a distant origin for opera in this piece, though without any evidence. Sixty-nine musical compositions, each with its own original poetic text, survive. This is one of the largest repertoires among medieval composers. Hildegard composed many liturgical songs that were collected into a cycle called the \"Symphonia armoniae celestium revelationum.\" The songs from the Symphonia are set to Hildegard's own text and range from antiphons, hymns, and sequences, to responsories. Her music is described as monophonic, using soaring melodies that pushed the boundaries of the more traditional Gregorian chant.\n\nMaddalena Casulana (1544–1590) was an Italian composer, lutenist and singer. Her first work dates from 1566: four madrigals in a collection, \"Il Desiderio\", which she produced in Florence. Two years later she published in Venice her first book of madrigals for four voices, \"Il primo libro di madrigali\", which is the first printed, published work by a woman in Western music history. She was close to Isabella de' Medici and dedicated some of her music to her. In 1570, 1583 and 1586 she published other books of madrigals. In the dedication to her first book of madrigals, she shows her feelings about being a female composer at a time when this was rare: \"[I] want to show the world, as much as I can in this profession of music, the vain error of men that they alone possess the gifts of intellect and artistry, and that such gifts are never given to women.\" \nHer style is contrapuntal and chromatic and her melodic lines are singable and attentive to the text. Other composers of the time, such as Philippe de Monte, thought highly of her.\n\nCaterina Assandra (1590–1618) was an Italian composer and Benedictine nun. She became famous as an organist and published various works. Assandra composed a number of motets and organ pieces. She studied counterpoint with Benedetto Re, one of the leading teachers at Pavia Cathedral. She composed a collection of motets in the new concertato style in Milan in 1609, an imitative eight-voice \"Salve Regina\" in 1611, and a motet, \"Audite verbum Dominum,\" for four voices in 1618. She composed traditional pieces and more innovative works. Among the latter is \"Duo seraphim.\" Her motet \"O Salutaris hodie,\" included in \"Motetti\" op. 2, was one of the first pieces to include the violone, a bowed stringed instrument.\n\nFrancesca Caccini (1587–1641) was an Italian composer, singer, lutenist, poet, and music teacher. Her singing for the wedding of Henry IV of France and Maria de Medici in 1600 was praised by Henry, who called her the \"best singer in all of France\". She worked in the Medici court as a teacher, chamber singer, rehearsal coach and composer of both chamber and stage music until 1627. By 1614 she was the court's most highly paid musician, because her musical virtuosity so well exemplified an idea of female excellence projected by Tuscany's de facto Regent, Granduchess Christina of Lorraine. Most of her stage music was composed for performance in comedies. In 1618 she published a collection of thirty-six solo songs and soprano/bass duets. In 1625 she composed a 75-minute \"comedy-ballet\". In all, she wrote sixteen staged works. She was a master of dramatic harmonic surprise: in her music it is harmony changes, more than counterpoint, that most powerfully communicates emotional affect.\n\nBarbara Strozzi (1619–1677) was an Italian Baroque composer and singer. As a child, her considerable vocal talents were displayed to a wide audience. She was also compositionally gifted, and her father arranged for her to study with composer Francesco Cavalli. Strozzi was said to be \"the most prolific composer – man or woman – of printed secular vocal music in Venice in the Middle of the century\". Her output is also unique in that it only contains secular vocal music, with the exception of one volume of sacred songs. She was renowned for her poetic ability as well as her compositional talent. Her lyrics were often poetic and well-articulated. Nearly three-quarters of her printed works were written for soprano, but she also published works for other voices. Her compositions are firmly rooted in the \"seconda pratica\" tradition. Strozzi's music evokes the spirit of Cavalli, heir of Monteverdi. However, her style is more lyrical, and more dependent on sheer vocal sound. Many of the texts for her early pieces were written by her father Giulio. Later texts were written by her father's colleagues, and for many compositions she may have written her own texts.\n\nÉlisabeth Jacquet de La Guerre (1665–1729) was a French composer, musician and harpsichordist. She was born into a family of musicians and master instrument-makers. A child prodigy, she performed on the harpsichord before King Louis XIV. She became a musician in the Royal Court and taught, composed, and gave concerts at home and throughout Paris, to great acclaim. She was one of the few well-known female composers of her time, and unlike many of her contemporaries, she composed in a wide variety of forms. Her talent and achievements were acknowledged by Titon du Tillet, who accorded her a place on his \"Mount Parnassus\" when she was only 26 years old, next to Lalande and Marais and directly below Lully. Her works include a ballet, an opera (\"Céphale et Procris\"), trio sonatas, harpsichord pieces, \"Sonates pour le viollon et pour le clavecin\" and vocal works such as her \"Cantates françoises sur des sujets tirez de l'Ecriture\".\n\nHarriett Abrams (1758–1821) was an English composer and soprano. As a singer, she was praised for her performances of George Frideric Handel. She studied singing, music theory, and composition with composer Thomas Arne before making her opera début in 1775 at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane in London. Abrams became a principal singer at the fashionable London concerts and provincial festivals, appearing regularly from 1780–1790. Abrams composed several songs, two of which, \"The Orphan's Prayer\" and \"Crazy Jane\", became popular. She published two sets of Italian and English canzonets, a collection of Scottish songs and glees harmonized for two and three voices, and more than a dozen songs, mainly sentimental ballads. A collection of songs published in 1803 was dedicated by Harriett to Queen Charlotte.\n\nMaria Teresa Agnesi (1720–1795) was an Italian composer. Though she was most famous for her compositions, she was also an accomplished harpsichordist and singer. The majority of her surviving compositions were written for keyboard, the voice, or both. Her career was made possible by the Austrian Lombardy, which was progressive and enlightened in women's rights. Her patron was Maria Theresia, holy Roman Empress and sovereign of Lombardy, and Maria Antonia Walpurgis, a gifted composer and contemporary. Her early works are simple and clean, while her later works are more virtuosic, complex, and melodramatic. She composed operas, including heroic drama and serious drama styles. She also wrote arias, concertos and sonatas for keyboard, small ensemble and voice.\n\nPrincess Anna Amalia (1723–1787) was a Prussian composer and score curator. She learned to play the harpsichord, flute, and violin as a young woman. She became the Abbess of Quedlinburg in 1755. She spent most of her time in Berlin, where she devoted herself to music, and became a musical patron and composer. As a composer she achieved a modest amount of fame and is most known for her smaller chamber works, which included trios, marches, cantatas, songs and fugues. In 1758, she studied musical theory and composition with Johann Philipp Kirnberger, a student of Johann Sebastian Bach. She composed chamber music such as flute sonatas. More, she set the text of Ramler's Passion cantata \"Der Tod Jesu\" (\"The Death of Jesus\") to music. She was also a collector of music, preserving over 600 volumes of works by Johann Sebastian Bach, George Frideric Handel, Georg Philipp Telemann, Karl Heinrich Graun and Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach, among others. Her works of curation are a significant contribution to Western culture.\nElisabeth Olin (1740–1828) was a Swedish opera singer and composer. She debuted as Alfhild in \"Syrinx\" referred to as Sweden's first native Opera comique, at \"Bollhuset\" in 1747. She became a famed vocalist in the regular public concerts at \"Riddarhuset\" in Stockholm, and published her own compositions; she was one of the Swedish composers who wrote one composition each for the collection \"Gustaviade. En hjältedikt i tolv sånger\" ('Gustaviade. A heroic poem of twelve songs') from 1768; where she wrote the composition number eight. At the inauguration performance and foundation of the Royal Swedish Opera on 18 January 1773, she sang the role of the Sea Goddess Thetis in Francesco Uttini's opera \"Thetis och Pélée\". She remained the primadonna of the Swedish opera for a decade. In 1773, she became the first female to be granted the title \"Hovsångare\", and in 1782, she was inducted as the first female member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Music.\nHenriette Adélaïde Villard de Beaumesnil (1748–1813) was a French composer and opera singer. She began working in minor comedy roles from the age of seven and debuted as a soloist at the Paris Opera in 1766. She was the second woman to have a composition performed at the Paris Opéra. Previously the Paris Opera had staged the tragédie-lyrique \"Céphale et Procris\" by Élisabeth Jacquet de La Guerre, in 1694. \"Anacréon\", her first opera, received a private performance at the residence of the Count of Provence in 1781. In 1784, her opera \"Tibulle et Délie\" was performed at the Paris Opera. In 1792, her two-act opéra comique, \"Plaire, c'est commander\" was performed at the Théâtre Montansier.\n\nAnna Bon (1739–1767?) was an Italian composer and performer. She attended the Ospedale della Pietà in Venice where she studied with the maestra di viola, Candida della Pièta. She held the new post of 'chamber music virtuosa' at the court of Margrave Friedrich of Brandenburg Kulmbach. She dedicated her six op. 1 flute sonatas, published in Nürnberg in 1756, to Friedrich. In 1762 she moved to the Esterházy court at Eisenstadt, where she remained until 1765. She dedicated the published set of six harpsichord sonatas, op. 2 (1757), to Ernestina Augusta Sophia, Princess of Saxe-Weimar, and the set of six divertimenti (trio sonatas), op. 3 (1759), to Charles Theodore, Elector of Bavaria. She also wrote six divertimenti for two flutes and basso continuo; an aria, \"Astra coeli\", for soprano, 2 violins, viola, and basso continuo; an offertory, \"Ardete amore\", for singers, instruments and basso continuo; a motet, \"Eia in preces et veloces\", for alto, 2 violins, viola, and basso continuo and an opera.\nJane Mary Guest (1762–1846) was an English composer and pianist. A pupil of Johann Christian Bach, and initially composing in the galante style, she composed keyboard sonatas, other keyboard works and vocal works with keyboard accompaniment. She was piano teacher to Princess Amelia and Princess Charlotte of Wales. She performed in London from 1779, giving subscription concerts there in 1783/84. She was known for her expressive style of playing. Around this time she published her Six Sonatas, Op. 1, which gained extensive subscriptions, including from royalty, and which were also published in Paris in 1784 and Berlin in 1785. In addition to her keyboard sonatas, she also composed other keyboard pieces, such as her Introduction and March from Rossini's \"Ricciardo e Zoraide\" (1820) and a number of songs with keyboard accompaniment.\n\nMarianne von Martinez (1744–1812) was an Austrian composer, singer and pianist. Metastasio noticed her precocious talents and came to oversee her musical education, which included keyboard lessons from Haydn, singing lessons with Porpora and composition lessons with Johann Adolph Hasse and the Imperial court composer Giuseppe Bonno. She was a native speaker of both Italian and German and knew French and English. As a child, she played for the Imperial court, where she \"attracted attention with her beautiful voice and her keyboard playing\". As an adult, she was frequently asked to perform before the Empress Maria Theresa. A number of the works that Marianna composed are set for solo voice. She wrote a number of secular cantatas and two oratorios to Italian texts. Surviving compositions include four masses, six motets, and three litanies for choir. She wrote in the Italian style, as was typical for the early Classical period in Vienna. Her harpsichord performance practice was compared to the style of C.P.E. Bach. Her Italian oratorio \"Isacco figura del redentore\" was premiered by massive forces in 1782.\n\nMaria Szymanowska (1789–1831) was a well-known Polish composer and pianist. She wrote in many of the same genres as fellow Pole Frederic Chopin (1810–1849). Szymanowska maintained connections with several famous nineteenth-century people, including Gioacchino Rossini, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, and Adam Mickiewicz, Poland's greatest poet.\n\nFanny Mendelssohn (1805–1847) was one of the best-known women composers of the 1800s. She showed prodigious musical ability as a child and began to write music. Even though famous visitors to her family home were equally impressed by Fanny and her brother Felix Mendelssohn, Fanny was limited by prevailing attitudes of the time toward women. Her father was tolerant, rather than supportive, of her activities as a composer. Her father wrote to her in 1820, telling her that \"[m]usic will perhaps become his [i.e. Felix's] profession, while for \"you\" it can and must be only an ornament [in your life]\". Felix cautioned her against publishing her works under her own name and seeking a career in music. He wrote:\n'From my knowledge of Fanny I should say that she has neither inclination nor vocation for [musical] authorship. She is too much all that a woman ought to be for this. She regulates her house, and neither thinks of the public nor of the musical world, nor even of music at all, until her first duties are fulfilled. Publishing would only disturb her in these, and I cannot say that I approve of it'. \n\nClara Schumann (1819–1896) was a German composer and concert pianist who had a 61-year concert career, which changed the format and repertoire of the piano recital and the tastes of the listening public. From an early age, she had a one-hour lesson in piano, violin, singing, theory, harmony, composition, and counterpoint. In 1830, at the age of eleven, she had become a virtuoso soloist and she left on a concert tour of European cities. In the late 1830s, she performed to sell-out crowds and laudatory critical reviews. Frédéric Chopin described her playing to Franz Liszt, who came to hear one of her concerts and subsequently \"praised her extravagantly\" in a letter that was published in the Parisian \"Revue et Gazette Musicale\". She was named a \"Königliche und Kaiserliche Kammervirtuosin\" (\"Royal and Imperial Chamber Virtuoso\"), Austria's highest musical honor.\n\nShe was also instrumental in changing the kind of programs expected of concert pianists. In her early career, before her marriage to Robert Schumann, she played what was then customary, mainly bravura pieces designed to showcase the artist's technique, often in the form of arrangements or variations on popular themes from operas, written by virtuosos such as Thalberg, Herz, or Henselt. As it was also customary to play one's own compositions, she included at least one of her own works in every program, works such as her Variations on a Theme by Bellini (Op. 8) and her popular Scherzo (Op. 10). Her works include songs, piano pieces, a piano concerto, a piano trio, choral pieces, and three Romances for violin and piano. \n\nKatherine Hoover (born 1937) studied music at the University of Rochester and the Eastman School of Music, where she earned a Performance Certificate in Flute and a Bachelor's of Music in Music Theory in 1959. She started publishing professional works in 1965, with her \"Duet for Two Violins\". Hoover was the winner of the National Flute Association's Newly Published Music Competition twice, first in 1987 with her piece \"Medieval Suite\" and second in 1991 with her piece \"Kokopelli\" for solo flute. These pieces utilize many extended techniques for flute, such as pitch bending. Many of her works have been recorded by renowned musicians and performed in Carnegie Hall.\n\nJoan Tower (born 1938) wrote her 1976 piece \"Black Topaz\", which features many tonal melodies and harmonies. She received her DMA in composition from Columbia University in 1978. She was commissioned in 1979 by the American Composers Orchestra, resulting in her first orchestral work, \"Sequoia\". This has been performed by numerous orchestras worldwide. From 1985-1988 Tower was the composer-in-residence at the St. Louis Symphony. In 1990 she was the first woman to win the Grawemeyer Award for Music Composition, which included a prize of $150,000. Since then, Tower has been the composer-in-residence at numerous music festivals, including the Norfolk Chamber Music Festival and Tanglewood Contemporary Music Festival. Tower has been a professor of music at Bard College in New York since 1982 and is considered one of the most influential women composers of the 20th century.\n\nEllen Taaffe Zwilich (born 1939) received her Doctorate in Composition from Juilliard and was the first woman to ever achieve this. The same year, she won a gold medal at the International Composition Competition in Italy. In 1983 Zwilich made history again, becoming the first woman to win the Pulitzer Prize in music for her \"Symphony No. 1.\" Since this success, she has received many commissions. Her piece \"Millennium\" has been performed by twenty-seven orchestras since its premiere in 2000. She has been the Francis Eppes Professor of Music at Florida State University since 1999. Zwilich is known to have an 'eclectic millennial voice' in her compositions, utilizing a clear design and rich timbres. Though her music was originally very dissonant and influenced by the Second Viennese School, her style became more emotional after the death of her husband.\n\nLibby Larsen (born 1950) earned her MM in 1975 from the University of Minnesota and her PhD from the same school in 1978. In 1973 she co-founded the Minnesota Composers Forum, now known as the American Composer's Forum. Larsen was the composer-in-residence at the Minnesota Orchestra from 1983-1987. Larsen composed over 220 works, including orchestra, dance, opera, choral, theater, chamber, and solo repertoire. Her pieces have been performed across the United States and Europe. Larsen is a strong supporter of contemporary music and female musicians, and she won a Grammy Award for her CD \"The Art of Arleen Auger\" in 1994. Larsen won the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Academy of Arts and Letters in 2000 and published her book \"The Concert Hall That Fell Asleep and Woke Up as a Car Radio\" in 2007.\n\nJennifer Higdon (born 1962) earned an MA and PhD from the University of Philadelphia in 1994. Higdon has received awards from the Guggenheim Foundation, American Academy of Arts and Letters, International League of Women's Composers, and others. Her 1996 work \"Shine\" was named Best Contemporary Piece by USA Today. Of Higdon's many pieces, \"blue cathedral\" is most frequently performed. In 2010, Higdon won the Grammy award of Best Contemporary Classical Composition for her \"Percussion Concerto\". Also in 2010 she won the Pulitzer Prize in Music for her composition \"Violin Concerto\", premiered by Hilary Hahn.\n\nAdditional notable female composers are listed below. Some are also notable as performers (e.g. Amy Beach and Verdina Shlonsky were noted pianists). For a full list, see List of female composers by birth year.\n\nWomen have a high prominence in many popular music styles as singers. However, professional women instrumentalists are uncommon in popular music, especially in rock genres such as heavy metal. \"[P]laying in a band is largely a male homosocial activity, that is, learning to play in a band is largely a peer-based... experience, shaped by existing sex-segregated friendship networks. As well, rock music \"is often defined as a form of male rebellion vis-à-vis female bedroom culture.\" In popular music, there has been a gendered \"distinction between public (male) and private (female) participation\" in music. \"[S]everal scholars have argued that men exclude women from bands or from the bands' rehearsals, recordings, performances, and other social activities.\" \"Women are mainly regarded as passive and private consumers of allegedly slick, prefabricated – hence, inferior – pop music..., excluding them from participating as high status rock musicians.\" One of the reasons that there are rarely mixed gender bands is that \"bands operate as tight-knit units in which homosocial solidarity – social bonds between people of the same sex... – plays a crucial role.\" In the 1960s pop music scene, \"[s]inging was sometimes an acceptable pastime for a girl, but playing an instrument...simply wasn't done.\"\n\n\"The rebellion of rock music was largely a male rebellion; the women—often, in the 1950s and '60s, girls in their teens—in rock usually sang songs as personæ utterly dependent on their macho boyfriends...\". Philip Auslander says that \"Although there were many women in rock by the late 1960s, most performed only as singers, a traditionally feminine position in popular music\". Though some women played instruments in American all-female garage rock bands, none of these bands achieved more than regional success. So they \"did not provide viable templates for women's on-going participation in rock\". In relation to the gender composition of heavy metal bands, it has been said that \"[h]eavy metal performers are almost exclusively male\" \"[a]t least until the mid-1980s\" apart from \"exceptions such as Girlschool.\" However, \"now [in the 2010s] maybe more than ever–strong metal women have put up their dukes and got down to it\", \"carv[ing] out a considerable place for [them]selves.\"\nWhen Suzi Quatro emerged in 1973, \"no other prominent female musician worked in rock simultaneously as a singer, instrumentalist, songwriter, and bandleader\". According to Auslander, she was \"kicking down the male door in rock and roll and proving that a female \"musician\" ... and this is a point I am extremely concerned about ... could play as well if not better than the boys\".\n\nA number of these artists are also notable for singing and songwriting, but they are listed here for their instrumental skills:\n\nAn all-female band is a musical group in popular music genres such as rock, blues, jazz and related genres which is exclusively composed of female musicians. This is distinct from a girl group, in which the female members are solely vocalists, though this terminology is not universally followed. While all-male bands are common in many rock and pop bands, all-female bands are less common.\n\nA girl group is a music act featuring several female singers who generally harmonize together. The term \"girl group\" is also used in a narrower sense within English-speaking countries to denote the wave of American female pop music singing groups which flourished in the late 1950s and early 1960s between the decline of early rock and roll and the British Invasion, many of whom were influenced by doo-wop style. All-female bands are sometimes also called girl groups.\n\nIn the Jazz Age and during the 1930s, all-female bands such as The Blue Belles, the Parisian Redheads (later the Bricktops), Lil-Hardin's All-Girl Band, The Ingenues, The Harlem Playgirls, Phil Spitalny's Musical Sweethearts and \"Helen Lewis and Her All-Girl Jazz Syncopators\" were popular.Ina Ray Hutton led an all-girl band, the Melodears, from 1934 to 1939. Eunice Westmoreland, under the name Rita Rio, led an all-female band appearing on NBC Radio and for Vitaphone and RKO. A Polish group Filipinki was established in 1959.\n\nGroups composed solely of women began to emerge with the advent of rock and roll. Among the earliest all-female rock bands to be signed to a record label were Goldie & the Gingerbreads, to Atlantic Records in 1964, The Pleasure Seekers with Suzi Quatro to Hideout Records in 1964 and Mercury Records in 1968, The Feminine Complex to Athena Records in 1968, and Fanny (who pioneered the all-female band sound in the early to mid-1970s) in 1969 when Mo Ostin signed them to Warner Bros. Records. There were also others, such as The Liverbirds (1962–1967), the Ace of Cups (1967), The Heart Beats (1968), and Ariel (1968–1970).\n\nIn 1971 Fanny became the first all-female band to reach the Hot 100's top 40, with \"Charity Ball\" peaking at No. 40. In 1975, the Canadian duo of sisters, Kate and Anna McGarrigle, recorded the first of a string of albums. The Runaways were an early commercially successful, hard-edged, all-female hard rock band, releasing their first album in 1976: band members Joan Jett, Cherie Currie and Lita Ford all went on to solo careers. The 1980s, for the first time, saw long-sought chart success from all-female bands and female-fronted rock bands. On the Billboard Hot 100-year-end chart for 1982 Joan Jett's \"I Love Rock 'n' Roll\" at No. 3 and the Go-Go's \"We Got the Beat\" at No. 25 sent a message out to many industry heads that females who could play could bring in money.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the advent of punk in the late 1970s with its \"anyone can do it\" ethos led to women making significant contributions. In contrast to the rock music and heavy metal scenes of the 1970s, which were dominated by men, the anarchic, counter-cultural mindset of the punk scene in mid- and late 1970s encouraged women to participate. \"That was the beauty of the punk thing,\" Chrissie Hynde later said.\" [Sexual] discrimination didn't exist in that scene.\" This participation played a role in the historical development of punk music, especially in the U.S. and U.K. at that time, and continues to influence and enable future generations.\n\nRock historian Helen Reddington states that the popular image of young punk women musicians as focused on the fashion aspects of the scene (fishnet stockings, spiky blond hair, etc.) was stereotypical. She states that many, if not most women punks were more interested in the ideology and socio-political implications, rather than the fashion. Music historian Caroline Coon contends that before punk, women in rock music were virtually invisible; in contrast, in punk, she argues \"[i]t would be possible to write the whole history of punk music without mentioning any male bands at all -- and I think a lot of [people] would find that very surprising.\" Johnny Rotten wrote that \"During the Pistols era, women were out there playing with the men, taking us on in equal terms ... It wasn't combative, but compatible.\" Women were involved in bands such as The Slits, The Raincoats, Mo-dettes, and Dolly Mixture, The Innocents.\n\nOthers take issue with the notion of equal recognition, such as guitarist Viv Albertine, who stated that \"the A&R men, the bouncers, the sound mixers, no one took us seriously.. So, no, we got no respect anywhere we went. People just didn't want us around.\" The anti-establishment stance of punk opened the space for women who were treated like outsiders in a male-dominated industry. Sonic Youth's Kim Gordon states, \"I think women are natural anarchists, because you're always operating in a male framework.\"\n\nThe all-female heavy metal band Girlschool, from South London, formed in 1978 out of the ashes of Painted Lady. While somewhat successful in the UK, they became better known in the early 1980s. One of the original members of the band, Kathy Valentine departed to join the all-female band The Go-Go's, switching from guitar to bass. Among Girlschool's early recordings was an EP titled \"The St. Valentines Day Massacre\" which they recorded with Bronze label-mates Motörhead under the name Headgirl. In 1974, The Deadly Nightshade, a rock/country band, was signed by Phantom. Women in the heavy metal genre tend to have to limit themselves due to the genre being very male orientated.\n\nWhile there is a perception that the groups in the 1980s and 1990s alternative rock genre of grunge were \"overwhelmingly male\" (e.g., Nirvana), \"[w]omen were totally represented\" in grunge bands such as L7, Lunachicks, Dickless, STP, 7 Year Bitch, Courtney Love's group Hole and Babes in Toyland, the latter an \"all-female Minneapolis band\", and grunge was \"inextricably linked with Riot Grrrl\", an underground feminist punk movement. Notable women instrumentalists include the bassists D'arcy Wretzky and Melissa Auf der Maur from The Smashing Pumpkins and drummers Patty Schemel (Hole and Courtney Love projects) and Lori Barbero of Babes in Toyland.\n\nIn the 1990s, musician's magazines were starting to view female musicians more seriously, putting Bonnie Raitt and Tina Weymouth on their covers. While The Go-Go's and The Bangles, both from the LA club scene, were the first all-female rock bands to find sustained success, individual musicians paved the way for the industry to seek out bands that had female musicians.\n\nIn the 1990s, bands such as Hole, Super Heroines, The Lovedolls and L7 became popular, while demonstrating on stage, and in interviews, a self-confident and \"bad\" attitude at times, always willing to challenge assumptions about how an all-female band should behave. Courtney Love described the other females in Hole as using a more \"lunar viewpoint\" in their roles as musicians. In the 1990s, the punk, female-led Riot Grrrl genre was associated with bands such as Bratmobile and Bikini Kill.\n\nIn the 2000s, all female and female fronted bands started using their influence to promote feminism and females in the music industry. Bands like The Distillers, fronted by Brody Dalle, influenced the rise of street punk. St. Vincent started gaining more traction and eventually appeared on the cover of Guitar World magazine. St. Vincent wore a T-shirt with a bikini decal on the magazine cover, a comment on how when women appear with guitars, they're usually dressed very minimally, as a marketing tool to sell the instruments. Haim, a band composed of three sisters, is extremely outspoken when it comes to the promotion of women in music, calling out major music festivals for the lack of female-fronted bands on bills and the lack of payment for female artists as compared to male artists of the same level. In recent years, the lack of female representation in music has been a major controversial point in the industry. Female musicians and bands are constantly overlooked in favor of male artists, however many people in the music industry have been making an effort to change this.\n\nHistorically, the majority of well-known women performers in jazz have been singers, such as Ella Fitzgerald, Billie Holiday, Diane Schuur and Dinah Washington. \"Culture Trip\" notes that women in jazz have been \"too often confined to the role of chanteuse.\" However, there are many notable instrumental performers. In some cases, these musicians are also composers and bandleaders:\n\nThere have also been all-female jazz bands such as The International Sweethearts of Rhythm.\n\nInstrumentalists in classical music may focus on one specific type of playing, such as solo recitals, solo concertos, chamber music, or performing as a member of an orchestra, or they may do different types. Some musicians who play orchestral instruments may do all of these types of performances. Instrumentalists in classical music may do both live performances for an audience and recordings. In some cases, classical performers may do mostly live performances. There has traditionally been a gendered aspect to playing instruments in classical music.\n\nMany album covers for female classical musicians have photographs that emphasize the physical attractiveness of the performer, \"often using risqué images\". According to Jessica Duchen, a music writer for London's \"The Independent\", Classical women musicians are \"too often judged for their appearances, rather than their talent\" and they face pressure \"to look sexy onstage and in photos.\" Duchen states that while \"[t]here are women musicians who refuse to play on their looks...the ones who do tend to be more materially successful.\"\n\nHistorically, orchestras tended to be almost exclusively male, with the exception of the harp player, as the harp was considered a \"women's instrument\". A music newspaper editorial in 1917 in England encouraged orchestras to allow women to play the \"lighter instruments\", with the understanding that these women performers would relinquish their positions to men once WW I was over. In the 1990s, to reduce the likelihood of gender bias, some orchestras began conducting auditions of potential new members behind a screen, so the audition panel could not see if it was a male or female performer. Historically, there has been a tendency for brass sections to be male, and some women brass players have alleged that there is gender bias against female brass players. A study in the 1980s found that women made up 36% of US orchestras; 30% in the United Kingdom, and 16% in East and West Germany. Women tended to be hired by lower paid orchestras and they were less present in major orchestras.\n\nIn the past, the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra argued that \"ethnic and gender uniformity\" gave their orchestra a better sound. Several male VPO musicians stated in a 1996 interview that classical music has \"gender-defined qualities which can be most clearly expressed by male uniformity\" in the orchestra. One male VPO member stated that men \"carry secrets that are involved with music and tones, just like in Australian aboriginal or Indian cultures where men play certain instruments, and not the women.\" One male VPO performer stated that \"pregnancy brings problems. It brings disorder. Another important argument against women is that they can bring the solidarity of the men in question. You find that in all men's groups.\"\n\nThe Vienna Philharmonic did not accept women to permanent membership until 1997, far later than comparable orchestras (of the other orchestras ranked among the world's top five by Gramophone in 2008, the last to appoint a woman to a permanent position was the Berlin Philharmonic.) As late as February 1996, first flautist Dieter Flury told Westdeutscher Rundfunk that accepting women would be \"gambling with the emotional unity () that this organism currently has\". In April 1996, the orchestra's press secretary wrote that \"compensating for the expected leaves of absence\" of maternity leave was a problem.\nIn 1997, the orchestra was \"facing protests during a [US] tour\" by the National Organization for Women and International Association of Women in Music. Finally, \"after being held up to increasing ridicule even in socially conservative Austria, members of the orchestra gathered [on 28 February 1997] in an extraordinary meeting on the eve of their departure and agreed to admit a woman, Anna Lelkes, as harpist.\" As of 2013, the orchestra has six female members; one of them, violinist Albena Danailova became one of the orchestra's concertmasters in 2008, the first woman to hold that position. In 2012, women still made up just 6% of the orchestra's membership, compared to 14% in the Berlin Philharmonic, 30% in the London Symphony Orchestra, and 36% in the New York Philharmonic. VPO president Clemens Hellsberg said the VPO now uses completely screened blind auditions. She said it chooses \"the best we get,\" implying that full gender equity would take time as older members retire and new ones audition under gender-neutral conditions. The Czech Philharmonic excludes women and the Berlin Philharmonic \"has a history of gender discrimination.\"\n\nIn 2013, an article in \"Mother Jones\" stated that \"[m]any prestigious orchestras have significant female membership—women outnumber men in the New York Philharmonic's violin section—and several renowned ensembles, including the National Symphony Orchestra, the Detroit Symphony, and the Minnesota Symphony, are led by women violinists. Brass, percussion, and string-bass orchestra sections are still predominantly male.\"\n\nIn classical music, soloists may perform unaccompanied solos on their instrument, as occurs with pianists who play works for solo piano or stringed instruments who play Baroque suites for one instrument (e.g., Bach suites for solo cello). In many cases, though, soloists are accompanied, either by a pianist, a small chamber music ensemble, or, in the case of a concerto, by a full symphony orchestra. In the 2014–2015 season, the majority of concerto soloists who performed with major Canadian orchestras were male. In the Vancouver Symphony Orchestra, 67% of the concerto soloists were male. In the Toronto Symphony Orchestra, 74% of the concerto soloists were male. In the National Arts Centre Orchestra, 79% of the concerto soloists were male. In the Orchestre Symphonique de Montreal, 84% of the concerto soloists were male. When the CBC news story on the gender balance of concerto soloists was released, the conductor of the Vancouver Symphony Orchestra, Bramwell Tovey, disputed the accuracy of the news story in regards to his orchestra, arguing that the article only took a single season into account.\n\nSingers in popular music perform the vocals for bands and other music groups, which may range in size from a duo or a power trio to a large jazz big band. Singers typically do both live performances and studio recordings. Singers who do live performances may sing in small venues such as coffeehouses or nightclubs, or they may perform in larger venues ranging from arts centres to stadiums. Some singers also perform in music videos, which are used to promote the songs. In some styles of music, singers may play a rhythm section instrument, such as rhythm guitar, electric bass or a percussion instrument while they sing. In some styles of pop, singers perform choreographed dance moves during the show. Two well-known examples of pop singers who perform elaborate dance routines in their live shows are Madonna and Britney Spears.\n\nSinger-songwriter and music producer Bjork has commented on how \"women's labor and expertise—inside and outside of the music industry—go unnoticed.\" She has stated that \"[I]t's invisible, what women do,\" and \"[I]t's not rewarded as much.\" Bjork states \"that her male collaborators are typically credited for the sound of her records; because on stage she mainly sings, there is a widespread assumption that she neither produces [as a music producer] nor plays an instrument.\" In 2015, \"while accepting the Woman of the Year honor at this year's Billboard Women in Music event\", Lady Gaga commented on the \"difficulties of being a female recording artist.\" She said it \"is really hard sometimes for women in music. It's like a f[uck]ing boys club that we just can't get in to.\" She stated that she \"tried for so long... to be taken seriously as a musician for my intelligence more than my body\", yet she felt that others in the industry did not believe that women could have a \"musical background... [or] understand what you're doing because you're a female.\" A University Press of Kentucky book states that customers did not treat a woman who worked at a guitar store like she knew anything about guitars until she would use special guitar terms. Indie folk singer-songwriter/guitarist Ani di Franco states that for women, in the past, even entering a guitar store was an \"act of courage\" because it felt like a \"boys' club\". Not only do female artists feel the pressure to please their male counterparts but it is also difficult for female DJs to fit in, in a male-dominated field\nDespite funk's popularity in modern music, few people have examined the work of funk women. As cultural critic Cheryl Keyes explains in her essay \"She Was too Black for Rock and too hard for Soul: (Re)discovering the Musical Career of Betty Mabry Davis,\" most of the scholarship around funk has focused on the cultural work of men. She states that \"Betty Davis is an artist whose name has gone unheralded as a pioneer in the annals of funk and rock. Most writing on these musical genres has traditionally placed male artist like Jimi Hendrix, George Clinton (of Parliament-Funkadelic), and bassist Larry Graham as trendsetters in the shaping of a rock music sensibility\" (35). Notable funk women include Chaka Khan, Labelle, Brides of Funkenstein, Klymaxx, Mother's Finest, and Betty Davis.\n\nBelow are some of the top-earning female singers in the 2010s. Another way of selecting the most notable singers for this section would be by critical acclaim, but this is a more subjective criteria than earnings. Almost all of these singers are also songwriters, and some are also music producers:\n\nIn East Asian pop music, during the 2010s, Japanese idol girl groups have been very successful in what is the largest physical music market in the world - and second largest overall -, with 17 number-one singles just in 2017. The best-selling among all the J-pop idol girl groups, AKB48, is the best-selling act in Japan ever by number of singles sold - and third by total number of records sold - and has had as well the best-selling single in the country every year of the decade so far. Also, the best-selling album ever in the country, \"First Love\", released in 1999, is by a woman, Japanese American singer and songwriter Utada Hikaru. South Korean idol girl groups have also been very successful the 2010s, with Twice having the best-performing single of 2016 in the country, as well as having won a total of 43 awards since their debut in October 2015. Another highly successful Korean idol girl group this decade is BLACKPINK, reaching the highest place ever for a K-pop girl group on the Billboard Hot 100 as well as being the first K-pop girl group to be number-one on the Billboard Emerging Artists chart. They have also won a total of 16 awards since their debut in August 2016. Chinese idol girl groups have also recently achieved significant success, with C-pop groups like SNH48 and Rocket Girls 101, with the later selling over 1.6 million copies of their debut EP in 2018.\n\nClassic female blues was an early form of blues music popular in the 1920s. An amalgam of traditional folk blues and urban theater music, the style is also known as vaudeville blues. Classic blues songs performed by female vocalists were accompanied by pianists or small jazz ensembles, and were the first blues to be recorded. The classic female blues singers were pioneers in the record industry, as they were among the first black singers and blues artists who were recorded. They were also instrumental in popularizing the 12-bar blues throughout the US.\n\nGertrude \"Ma\" Rainey (1886–1939), known as the \"Mother of the Blues\", is credited as the first to perform the blues on stage as popular entertainment when she began incorporating blues into her act of show songs and comedy around 1902. New York-based cabaret singer Mamie Smith recorded \"Crazy Blues\" in 1920, which sold over 75,000 copies. Smith became known as \"America's First Lady of the Blues\". In 1920, the vaudeville singer Lucille Hegamin became the second black woman to record blues when she recorded \"The Jazz Me Blues\". Ethel Waters, Alberta Hunter, Mary Stafford, Katie Crippen, Edith Wilson, and Esther Bigeou, among others, made their first recordings before the end of 1921. These blues recordings were typically labeled as \"race records\" to distinguish them from records sold to white audiences. Nonetheless, the recordings of some of the classic female blues singers were purchased by white buyers as well. Marion Harris became one of the first white female singers to record the blues.\n\nThe most popular of the classic blues singers was Tennessee-born Bessie Smith (no relation to Mamie Smith), who first recorded in 1923 and became known as the \"Empress of the Blues\". She signed with Columbia and became the highest-paid black artist of the 1920s, recording over 160 songs. Other classic blues singers who recorded extensively until the end of the 1920s were Ida Cox, Clara Smith, and Sara Martin. These early blues singers were an influence on later singers such as Mahalia Jackson and Janis Joplin. These blues women's contributions to the genre included \"increased improvisation on melodic lines, unusual phrasing which altered the emphasis and impact of the lyrics, and vocal dramatics using shouts, groans, moans, and wails. The blues women thus effected changes in other types of popular singing that had spin-offs in jazz, Broadway musicals, torch songs of the 1930s and 1940s, gospel, rhythm and blues, and eventually rock and roll.\"\n\nGender discrimination and sexism occurs frequently in country music. In more recent times, a popular subgenre has developed: \"Bro-Country\", which has lyrics that sexually objectify women and frame them as assets for men's use. Some popular \"Bro-Country\" artists include Luke Bryan, Florida Georgia Line, and Blake Shelton. Gender discrimination and sexism has become more prominent in this genre over time. Dr. Eric Rasumssen, a professor in the College of Media and Communication and Texas Tech University, argues that compared to the 1990s and 2000s (decade), the country music of the 2010s discriminates more against women. Some of the ways they discriminate include, \"talking more about women’s appearance, [showing] women in tight or revealing clothing, comparing women to objects, referring to women in slang [terms] versus their real names, and portraying women as distrustful and cheaters.\"\n\n\"Bro-Country\" may be influenced by historical aspects of Southern culture which have been associated with racism and sexism. Women in country music continue to face these issues. Kacey Musgraves, a recording artist, describes her experience with sexism in country music by stating that if a label can't get your song off the ground, it's immediately blamed on your personality or the fact that you're female, or that you didn't make a radio station program director feel important.\n\nWhile woman have been underrepresented in jazz as instrumentalists, composers, songwriters and bandleaders, there have been many notable women singers. Bessie Smith sang both the blues and jazz. Lena Horne first appeared in the Cotton Club as a teenager. Ella Fitzgerald and Billie Holiday were known for their ballads during the swing era. Shirley Horn sang both jazz and blues. Nina Simone sang jazz, folk and Rhythm and blues. Etta Jones sang rhythm and blues and jazz. Anita O'Day is known for her contributions to Bebop. Betty Carter sang during the post-bop era. Mary Lou Williams was a singer and pianist during the swing and hard bop eras. Sarah Vaughan is known for her singing in the Cool jazz era. Other notable singers include Rosemary Clooney, Diane Schuur and Flora Purim. Contemporary jazz singers include Norah Jones, Diana Krall, Melody Gardot and singer-bassist Esperanza Spalding.\n\nClassical singers typically do both live performances and recordings. Live performances may be in small venues, such as churches, or large venues, such as opera halls or arts centers. Classical singers may specialize in specific types of singing, such as art song, which are songs performed with piano accompaniment, or opera, which is singing accompanied by a symphony orchestra in a staged, costumed theatrical production. Classical singers are typically categorized by their voice type, which indicates both their vocal range and in some cases also the \"color\" of their voice. Examples of voice types that indicate the range of a singer's voice include contralto, mezzo-soprano and soprano (these go from the lowest range to the highest range). Examples of voice types that indicate both the singer's range and the \"color\" of her voice type are coloratura soprano and lyric soprano. Whereas popular music singers typically use a microphone and a sound reinforcement system for their vocals, in classical music the voice must be projected into the hall naturally, a skill for which they undertake vocal training.\n\nMarian Anderson (1897–1993) was an African-American contralto of whom music critic Alan Blyth said: \"Her voice was a rich, vibrant contralto of intrinsic beauty.\" Most of her singing career was spent performing in concert and recital in major music venues and with famous orchestras throughout the United States and Europe between 1925 and 1965. Anderson became an important figure in the struggle for black artists to overcome racial prejudice in the United States during the mid-twentieth century. In 1939, the Daughters of the American Revolution (DAR) refused permission for Anderson to sing to an integrated audience in Constitution Hall. With the aid of First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt and her husband Franklin D. Roosevelt, Anderson performed a critically acclaimed open-air concert on Easter Sunday, 9 April 1939, on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C. She sang before a crowd of more than 75,000 people and a radio audience in the millions. Anderson continued to break barriers for black artists in the United States, becoming the first black person, American or otherwise, to perform at the Metropolitan Opera in New York City on 7 January 1955.\n\nA short list of notable classical singers includes:\n\nWomen play an important role in world music, a musical category encompassing many different styles of music from around the world, including ethnic music and traditional music from Africa, the Caribbean, South America, Asia, and other regions, indigenous music, neotraditional music, and music where more than one cultural tradition intermingle (e.g., mixtures of Western pop and ethnic music). The term was popularized in the 1980s as a marketing category for non-Western traditional music.\n\nBrazilian actress, singer and dancer Carmen Miranda became known in the West as exotic supplement in Hollywood films in the 1930s, akin to dancer Josephine Baker before, and the voice of exotica Yma Sumac after her. In the 1960s Elis Regina was the most prominent female singer in the Bossa Nova of Brazilian music that influenced popular music around the world. In the 1960s and 1970s Argentinian folk singer Mercedes Sosa, South African Miriam Makeba or Greek Maria Farantouri were also recognized for their engagement against the oppressive political situation in their home states. Sosa singing \"Gracias a la vida\", Makeba's \"Pata Pata\", and Farantouri's collaboration with composer Mikis Theodorakis were musical icons of the struggle for human rights. The \"Queen of Salsa\" Celia Cruz immigrated from Cuba to the United States in 1966.\n\nWith the rising interest in the then so-called world music in the 1980s old recordings of long established artists were re-discovered for a global audience and distributed worldwide; well known in their home country –sometimes stars with legendary status– like Arabic singers Umm Kulthum, Asmahan, and Fairuz, the Algerian Raï singer Cheikha Rimitti, Asha Bhosle, most prolific playback singer for Bollywood film soundtracks, Romani Esma Redžepova, Mexican ranchera singer Chavela Vargas, and the Mahotella Queens from South Africa; or they were recorded for the first time (by Caucasian males) like Cesária Évora from Cape Verde, Stella Chiweshe from Zimbabwe and Afro-Peruvian Susana Baca.\n\nThere are many notable women world music performers, including: Ann Savoy, Bi Kidude, Brenda Fassie, Chabuca Granda, Chava Alberstein, Cleoma Breaux Falcon, Dolly Collins, Elizabeth Cotten, Frehel, Gal Costa, Genoa Keawe, Googoosh, Hazel Dickens, Jean Ritchie, Lata Mangeshkar, Lola Beltrán, Lucha Reyes, Lucilla Galeazzi (The Mammas), Lydia Mendoza, Maria Tanase, Mariam Doumbia, Nada Mamula, Ofra Haza, Oumou Sangare, Rita Marley, Rosa Passos, Roza Eskenazi, Safiye Ayla, Salamat Sadikova, Selda Bagcan, Shirley Collins, Valya Balkanska, Violeta Parra, Warda, and Zap Mama.\n\nArabic music, which has Persian origins,\nis an amalgam of the music of the Arab people in the Arabian Peninsula and the music of all the varied peoples that make up the Arab world. In Egypt during the medieval era, male professional musicians during this period were called Alateeyeh (plural), or Alatee (singular), which means \"a player upon an instrument\". However, this name applies to both vocalists as well as instrumentalists. Male professional musicians were considered disreputable and lowly, and they earned their living playing at parties. Female professional musicians in Egypt were called Awalim (pl) or Al'meh, which means a \"learned female\". These singers were often hired on the occasion of a celebration in the harem of a wealthy person. They were not with the harem, but in an elevated room that was concealed by a screen so as not to be seen by either the harem or the master of the house. The female Awalim were more highly paid than male performers and more highly regarded.\n\nIn the 9th century, using male instrumentalists was harshly criticized in a treatise, because male musicians were associated with perceived vices such as playing chess and writing love poetry. Following the invasion of Egypt, Napoleon commissioned reports on the state of Ottoman culture. The report reveals that there were guilds of male instrumentalists who played to male audiences, and \"learned female\" singer/musicians who sang and played for women audiences.\n\nIn Chinese music, music was a major activity for women during Ancient times, especially for learned women. Women performers were associated with the guqin since ancient times. The guqin is a plucked seven-string Chinese musical instrument of the zither family. It has traditionally been favored by scholars and literati as an instrument of great subtlety and refinement. A notable woman guqin player was Cai Wenji, associated with the piece \"Hujia Shiba-pai\".\n\nWomen musicians also play a key role in Chinese folk music. In southern Fujian and Taiwan, Nanyin or Nanguan music is a genre of traditional Chinese folk ballads. They are sung by a woman accompanied by a xiao flute and a pipa, as well as other traditional instruments. The music is generally sorrowful and typically deals with the topic of a love-stricken woman.\n\nThe Chinese pop (C-pop) music industry in the 1930s and 1940s was dominated by the Seven Great Singing Stars, who were the most renowned singers of China in the 1940s. Zhou Xuan, Gong Qiuxia, Yao Lee and Bai Hong emerged in the 1930s, while Bai Guang, Li Xianglan and Wu Yingyin became popular in the 1940s. After 1949, these early generations of C-pop were denounced by the Communist Party of China as Yellow Music as it saw pop music as sexually indecent (the color yellow is associated with eroticism and sex in China). Only after the end of the Cultural Revolution, by the early 1980s, could Yellow Music be performed again.\n\nNowadays, after China's extensive political and cultural changes of the past 50 years, Chinese popular music has been increasingly emulating and taking inspiration from the styles of popular music of South Korea (K-pop) and of Japan (J-pop), both of which it now closely resembles. As such, during the 2010s, several girl groups have been established based both on the Japanese model, like SNH48 (created in 2012) and its sister groups, as well as on the Korean model, like Rocket Girls, created in 2018 from the Chinese version of a Korean reality television talent competition show. These groups have achieved significant success, with the debut EP of Rocket Girls selling over 1.6 million copies. Despite this though, solo Chinese female artists continue to be much more popular overall in the country, as they have traditionally been. Some of the most recently popular solo Chinese female singers include 胡66, Ada Zhuang, Kelly Yu, 陳粒 (), Feng Timo, Bibi Zhou, 双笙, Tia Ray, 金玟岐 () and Jane Zhang.\n\nIndian classical music is the art music of the Indian subcontinent. The origins of Indian classical music can be found in the Hindu hymns. This chanting style evolved into jatis and eventually into ragas. Indian classical music has also been significantly influenced by, or syncretised with, Indian folk music. The major composers from the historical Indian classical music tradition were men. Modern women vocalists include D. K. Pattammal, M. S. Subbalakshmi, Gangubai Hangal, Hirabai Barodekar, Kesarbai Kerkar, Kishori Amonkar, Malini Rajurkar, Mogubai Kurdikar, Prabha Atre, Roshan Ara Begum and Shruti Sadolikar Katkar. One woman instrumentalist is Annapurna Devi.\n\nIn Indian folk music, lavani is a music genre popular in Maharashtra that is traditionally performed by women.\nBhangra (Punjabi: ਭੰਗੜਾ) is a form of dance-oriented folk music of Punjab. The present musical style is derived from non traditional musical accompaniment to the riffs of Punjab called by the same name. The female dance of Punjab region is known as Giddha (Punjabi: ਗਿੱਧਾ).\n\nIn the music of Bollywood (the centre of India's film industry) and other regional film industries in India, women playback singers have had a significant role, with the sisters Lata Mangeshkar and Asha Bhosle, who have mainly worked in Hindi films, often referred to as two of the best-known and most prolific playback singers in India. In 2011, Bhosle was officially acknowledged by the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" as the most recorded artist in music history.\n\nSince the Iranian revolution, Iranian female solo vocalists have been permitted to perform for female audiences. Female vocalists can perform for male audiences only as a part of a chorus. Traditionally, it has been difficult for female singers to appear publicly. Women were only allowed to perform for religious rituals, called Tazieh, and men were generally forbidden to listen to women. Before the Revolution, Iranian women could only sing in private, while working, for other women, or during women's celebrations. Qamar ol-Molouk Vaziri (1905-1959) is one of the first female masters of Persian music. Notable female musicians include Delkash (1923-2004); Simin Ghanem (born 1944); Maryam Akhondy (born 1957), founder of Barbad Ensemble; Persian classical guitarist Lily Afshar; singer Shakila, winner of Persian Academy Award; the conductor Soodabeh Salem; Afsaneh Rasaei; Pirayeh Pourafar, founder of Nava Ensemble and Lian Ensemble; and Mahsa Vahdat.\n\nThe classical singer Fatemeh Vaezi (commonly known by her stage name \"Parisa\") has given concerts accompanied by a female orchestra. After 1986 Maryam Akhondy started working with other Iranian musicians in exile. In 2000 Maryam Akhondy created the all-female a cappella group Banu which sung old folk songs that were part of women's activities and celebrations. Singer Sima Bina has taught many female students. Ghashang Kamkar teaches both male and female students. Both Ghashang and Vaezi have criticized the patriarchal power structure in Iran for its treatment of female musicians. Iranian folk-music performers include Sima Bina, Darya Dadvar, Monika Jalili, Ziba Shirazi, Zohreh Jooya, and Shushā Guppy. Iranian pop performers include Googoosh, Hayedeh, Mahasti, Leila Forouhar, Pooran, and Laleh Pourkarim. World music performers include Azam Ali and Cymin Samawatie.\n\nJapan has the largest physical music market in the world, with US$2 billion in 2014 and the second largest overall music market, with a total retail value of 2.6 billion dollars in 2014. The physical singles market is dominated by Japanese idol women artists, with 9 out of the top 10 best-selling singles in the country in 2015 belonging to either the idol girl group AKB48 or its \"sister\" and \"rival\" groups. AKB48 has had the best-selling singles of the year in the country for the past six years and the group is also the best-selling act in Japan by number of singles sold. Japanese American singer and songwriter Utada Hikaru has the best-selling album in the country, \"First Love\".\n\nThe vast majority of major musicologists and music historians have been men. Nevertheless, some women musicologists have reached the top ranks of the profession. Carolyn Abbate (born 1956) is an American musicologist who did her PhD at Princeton University. She has been described by the \"Harvard Gazette\" as \"one of the world's most accomplished and admired music historians\".\n\nSusan McClary (born 1946) is a musicologist associated with the \"New Musicology\" who incorporates feminist music criticism in her work. McClary holds a PhD from Harvard University. One of her best known works is \"Feminine Endings\" (1991), which covers musical constructions of gender and sexuality, gendered aspects of traditional music theory, gendered sexuality in musical narrative, music as a gendered discourse and issues affecting women musicians. In the book, McClary suggests that the sonata form (used in symphonies and string quartets) may be a sexist or misogynistic procedure that constructs of gender and sexual identity. McClary's \"Conventional Wisdom\" (2000) argues that the traditional musicological assumption of the existence of \"purely musical\" elements, divorced from culture and meaning, the social and the body, is a conceit used to veil the social and political imperatives of the worldview that produces the classical canon most prized by supposedly objective musicologists.\n\nOther notable women scholars include:\n\n\nEthnomusicologists study the many musics around the world that emphasize their cultural, social, material, cognitive, biological, and other dimensions or contexts instead of or in addition to its isolated sound component or any particular repertoire.\nEthnomusicology – a term coined by Jaap Kunst from the Greek words ἔθνος (\"ethnos\", \"nation\") and μουσική (\"mousike\", \"music\") – is often described as the anthropology or ethnography of music. Initially, ethnomusicology was almost exclusively oriented toward non-Western music, but now includes the study of Western music from anthropological, sociological and intercultural perspectives.\n\nNotable ethnomusicologists include:\n\n\nWhile music critics argued in the 1880s that \"women lacked the innate creativity to compose good music\" due to \"biological predisposition\", later, it was accepted that women would have a role in music education, and they became involved in this field \"to such a degree that women dominated music education during the latter half of the 19th century and well into the 20th century.\" \"Traditional accounts of the history of music education [in the US] have often neglected the contributions of women, because these texts have emphasized bands and the top leaders in hierarchical music organizations.\" When looking beyond these bandleaders and top leaders, women had many music education roles in the \"home, community, churches, public schools, and teacher-training institutions\" and \"as writers, patrons, and through their volunteer work in organizations.\"\n\nDespite the limitations imposed on women's roles in music education in the 19th century, women were accepted as kindergarten teachers, because this was deemed to be a \"private sphere\". Women also taught music privately, in girl's schools, Sunday schools, and they trained musicians in school music programs. By the turn of the 20th century, women began to be employed as music supervisors in elementary schools, teachers in normal schools and professors of music in universities. Women also became more active in professional organizations in music education, and women presented papers at conferences.\n\nA woman, Frances Clarke (1860-1958) founded the Music Supervisors National Conference in 1907. While a small number of women served as President of the Music Supervisors National Conference (and the following renamed versions of the organization over the next century) in the early 20th century, there were only two female Presidents between 1952 and 1992, which \"[p]ossibly reflects discrimination.\" After 1990, however, leadership roles for women in the organization opened up. From 1990 to 2010, there were five female Presidents of this organization. Women music educators \"outnumber men two-to-one\" in teaching general music, choir, private lessons, and keyboard instruction . More men tend to be hired as for band education, administration and jazz jobs, and more men work in colleges and universities. According to Dr. Sandra Wieland Howe, there is still a \"glass ceiling\" for women in music education careers, as there is \"stigma\" associated with women in leadership positions and \"men outnumber women as administrators.\"\n\n\nThe majority of professional orchestra conductors are male; \"The Guardian\" called conducting \"one of the last glass ceilings in the music industry\". A 2013 article stated that in France, out of 574 concerts only 17 were conducted by women and no women conducted at the National Opéra in Paris. \"Bachtrack\" reported that, in a list of the world's 150 top conductors that year, only five were women. A small number of female conductors have become top-ranked international conductors. In January 2005, Australian conductor Simone Young became the first woman to conduct the Vienna Philharmonic. In 2008 Marin Alsop, a protégé of Leonard Bernstein, became the first woman to become the music director and principal conductor of a major US orchestra when she won the top job at the Baltimore Symphony. There were \"protests from a large swathe of the Baltimore Symphony when she was first named Music Director\", but since that time, \"plaudits [have] roll[ed] in.\" In 2014, Alsop was the first woman conductor to lead the Last Night of the Proms concert–one of the most important classical music events in Britain–in its 118-year history.\n\nJeri Lynne Johnson was the first African-American woman to win an international conducting prize when she was awarded the Taki Concordia conducting fellowship in 2005. She is the founder and music director of the Black Pearl Chamber Orchestra, the first multi-ethnic professional orchestra in Philadelphia. A graduate of Wellesley College and the University of Chicago, she is a conductor, composer and pianist. From 2001-2004, she was the assistant conductor of The Chamber Orchestra of Philadelphia. She has led orchestras around the world including the Colorado Symphony, Bournemouth Symphony (UK), and the Weimar Staatskapelle (Germany). Alongside prominent woman conductors Marin Alsop and JoAnn Falletta, Ms. Johnson was heralded on the NBC Today Show as one of the nation's leading female conductors.\n\nAccording to the UK's Radio 3 editor, Edwina Wolstencroft, \"The music world has been happy to have female performers ...for a long time...[;]But owning authority and power in public is another matter. That's where female conductors have had a hard time. Our society is more resistant to women being powerful in public than to women being entertaining.\" The low percentage of women conductors is not because women do not study in music school; indeed, in 2009 and 2012 almost half of the recipients of conducting doctorates were women.\n\nWomen conductors faced sexism and gender discrimination throughout the 19th century and 20th century. \"To break down this apparent employment barrier, women created their own opportunities by founding and organizing all-female orchestras\"; one example is the Fadette Women's Orchestra in Boston founded in 1888 by conductor Caroline B. Nichols. A number of other all-women orchestras were founded in the early decades of the 20th century, and women conductors led these groups.\n\nWomen conductors continue to face sexism and gender discrimination in the early decades of the 21st century. In the 2010s, several notable male conductors and musicians made sexist statements about women conductors. In 2013, \"Vasily Petrenko, the principal conductor of the Oslo Philharmonic and the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic, provoked outrage when he told a Norwegian newspaper that 'orchestras react better when they have a man in front of them.\" He also stated that \"when women have families, it becomes difficult to be as dedicated as is demanded in the business\". Bruno Mantovani, the director of the Paris Conservatoire, gave an interview in which he made sexist statements about women conductors. Mantovani raised the \"problem of maternity\" and he questioned the ability of women to withstand the physical challenges and stresses of the profession, which he claimed involve \"conducting, taking a plane, taking another plane, conducting again.\" Yuri Temirkanov, the music director of the St. Petersburg Philharmonic, made sexist statements about women conductors in a September 2013 interview, stating that \"The essence of the conductor's profession is strength. The essence of a woman is weakness.\" Finnish conductor Jorma Panula made sexist statements about women conductors in 2014; he stated that \"women [conductors are not]… getting any better – only worse\", which he called a \"purely biological question.\"\n\nNotable female conductors include:\n\nAccording to Anwen Crawford, the \"problem for women [popular music critics] is that our role in popular music was codified long ago\", which means that \"[b]ooks by living female rock critics (or jazz, hip-hop, and dance-music critics, for that matter) are scant\". Crawford notes that the \"most famous rock-music critics—Robert Christgau, Greil Marcus, Lester Bangs, Nick Kent—are all male\".\n\nSociologist Simon Frith noted that pop and rock music \"are closely associated with gender; that is, with conventions of male and female behaviour\". According to Holly Kruse, both popular music articles and academic articles about pop music are usually written from \"masculine subject positions\". As well, there are relatively few women writing in music journalism: \"By 1999, the number of female editors or senior writers at \"Rolling Stone\" hovered around...15%, [while] at \"Spin\" and \"Raygun\", [it was] roughly 20%.\" Criticism associated with gender was discussed in a 2014 \"Jezebel\" article about the struggles of women in music journalism, written by music critic Tracy Moore, previously an editor at the \"Nashville Scene\".\n\nThe American music critic Ann Powers, as a female critic and journalist for a popular, male-dominated industry, has written critiques the perceptions of sex, racial and social minorities in the music industry. She has also written about feminism. In 2006 she accepted a position as chief pop-music critic at the \"Los Angeles Times\", where she succeeded Robert Hilburn. In 2005, Powers co-wrote the book \"Piece by Piece\" with musician Tori Amos, which discusses the role of women in the modern music industry, and features information about composing, touring, performance, and the realities of the music business.\n\nAnwen Crawford, a writer for \"The Monthly\" contributed to Jessica Hopper's book of essays and profiles entitled \"The First Collection of Criticism by a Living Female Rock Critic\". Crawford's article \"explores women's long struggle for visibility and recognition in the field of rock criticism, even though we've been helping to pioneer it from the start\". Crawford states that \"[t]he record store, the guitar shop, and now social media: when it comes to popular music, these places become stages for the display of male prowess\"; \"[f]emale expertise, when it appears, is repeatedly dismissed as fraudulent. Every woman who has ever ventured an opinion on popular music could give you some variation [of this experience]... and becoming a recognized \"expert\" (a musician, a critic) will not save [women] from accusations of fakery.\"\n\nNotable popular music critics include:\n\n\"The National Arts Journalism Program (NAJP) at Columbia... completed a large study of arts journalism in America [in 2005]. They found that 'the average classical music critic is a white, 52-year-old male with a graduate degree, but twenty-six percent of all critics writing are female.'\" However, William Osborne points out that this 26% figure includes all newspapers, including low-circulation regional papers. Osborne states that the \"large US papers, which are the ones that influence public opinion, have virtually no women classical music critics.\" The only female critics from major US papers are Anne Midgette (\"New York Times\") and Wynne Delacoma (\"Chicago Sun-Times\"). Midgette was the \"first woman to cover classical music in the entire history of the paper.\" Susannah Clapp, a critic from \"The Guardian\"–a newspaper that has a female classical music critic–stated in May 2014 that she had only then realized \"what a rarity\" a female classical music critic is in journalism.\n\nNotable women classical music critics include:\n\nA 2013 \"Sound on Sound\" article stated that there are \"few women in record production and sound engineering.\" Ncube states that \"[n]inety-five percent of music producers are male, and although there are female producers achieving great things in music, they are less well-known than their male counterparts.\" \"Only three women have ever been nominated for best producer at the Brits or the Grammys\" and none won either award. \"Women who want to enter the [producing] field face a boys' club, or a guild mentality\". The UK \"Music Producers' Guild says less than 4% of its members are women\" and at the Liverpool Institute of Performing Arts, \"only 6% of the students enrolled on its sound technology course are female.\" Speaking about the 1970s, Tom Jones mentions in his recent autobiography \"We had Lynsey de Paul, a big star, though she fell out with Gordon Mills for wanting to produce her own records\" - however, she managed to do this and eventually produced male artists such as ex-Move singer Carl Wayne and Lenny Zakatek, as well as Vera Lynn and Shirley Bassey.\n\nIn Ruth Saxelby's article \"Why aren't more women becoming music producers?\", she states that \"beats aren't gendered, so why do women represent less than 5% of music producers and engineers\"? Saxelby interviewed 13 women who work as music producers to seek the potential causes of this situation. Fatima Al Qadiri from New York states that \"women are expected to be the sexualized commercial object for sale in music, and production and engineering [are fields where women are] rarely [able to be] objectified for financial gain [by the music industry]\"; as such, the industry does not use women producers or engineers. Qadiri said barriers to women in production and sound engineering include \"misogyny, sexism, unequal pay...[and] pressure to make your body (rather than your music) the central focus of your career.\" Caroline Polachek from New York states that \"an artist is not as likely to bring in a woman to produce his track as a man, not because of a bias against women per se, but because on some level it's playing safe: a killer producer, history tells us, looks like a man.\"\n\nWondaGurl from Toronto states that \"there aren't many female producer and engineers, because they find this side of the business to be mostly male-dominated and many woman do not like to have to compete with men.\" Holly Herndon from San Francisco states that \"[m]usic, despite common misconceptions, is quite conservative. The archetypes don't seem to ever really change...Every year we get a diva, a dancer...a girl next door, a fashion queen, a dainty songstress; all younger updates on a previous [year's] model. No room for new archetypes [such as women producers].\" Herndon points out that Missy Elliott \"exists outside of those narrow roles...\" Asma Maroof from Los Angeles says women are \"intimidated by such a male-driven profession.\"\n\nTokimonsta, also from Los Angeles, states that \"our culture has systematically engrained this idea that technology is more of a man's thing.\" Ikonika from London, UK, states that the music industry is \"sexist and racist\". Anna Lunoe from Sydney, Australia, states that \"more girls [should be] exposed to introductory production workshops\" and \"production mentoring programs that are... aimed at promising young female engineers\". Leila from London, UK, states that \"[t]here have been a fair few [female producers and engineers]\", from Delia Derbyshire to Tina Weymouth to Susan Day to Missy Elliot to Zavoloka. Leila suggests that to increase the number of women in music production and sound engineering, girls should be given training in computers and software coding.\n\nOne of the first women to produce, engineer, arrange and promote music on her own rock and roll music label was Cordell Jackson (1923-2004). She founded the Moon Records label in Memphis in 1956 after a few years of recording demos at Sam Phillips' Memphis Recording Service and Sun Records Studio. Unable to break into the Sun Records label's stable of male artists, she received the advice and assistance of RCA Records' Chet Atkins in forming this new label to release her music. She began releasing and promoting on the label singles she recorded in her home studio, serving as engineer, producer and arranger. The artists recorded included her and a small family of early rock and roll, rockabilly, and country music performers she recruited from several Southern states.\n\nTrina Shoemaker is a mixer, record producer and sound engineer responsible for producing/engineering and/or mixing records for bands such as Queens of the Stone Age, Sheryl Crow, Emmylou Harris, Something for Kate, Nanci Griffith and many more. In 1998 Shoemaker became the first woman to win the Grammy Award for Best Engineered Album for her work on \"The Globe Sessions\". In addition to Crow, Shoemaker went on to work with artists such as Blues Traveller, Emmylou Harris, the Indigo Girls and the Dixie Chicks. Shoemaker states that men in the industry would \"grab my ass\".\n\nGail Davies was the '...first female producer in country music, delivering a string of Top 10 hits in the '70s and '80s including \"Someone Is Looking for Someone Like You,\" \"Blue Heartache\" and \"I'll Be There (If You Ever Want Me).\" When she moved to Nashville in 1976, men \"didn't want to work for a woman\" and she was told women in the city were \"still barefoot, pregnant and [singing] in the vocal booth.\" \nWendy Waldman, who became a producer after Davies, saw that Davies had a difficult time. When Jonell Polansky arrived in Nashville in 1994, with a degree in electrical engineering and recording experience in the Bay Area, she was told \"[y]ou're a woman, and we already had one\"–a reference to Waldman. \nKK Proffitt, who is a studio \"owner and chief engineer\" states that men in Nashville do not want to have women in the recording booth. At a meeting of the Audio Engineering Society, Proffitt was told to \"shut up\" by a male producer when she raised the issue of updating studio recording technologies. Proffitt said she finds \"finds sexism rampant in the industry\".\n\nOther notable women include:\n\nWomen in music are often seen mainly in singing roles in popular music and there are relatively few women DJs or turntablists in hip hop music, house music, nu metal and other genres where DJs and turntablists participate. Indeed, all of these genres are very male-dominated. Part of this may stem from a general low percentage of women in audio technology-related jobs, such as audio engineering and production. In 2007 Mark Katz's article \"Men, Women, and Turntables: Gender and the DJ Battle,\" stated that \"very few women battle; the matter has been a topic of conversation among hip-hop DJs for years.\" In 2010 Rebekah Farrugia states \"the male-centricity of EDM culture\" contributes to \"a marginalisation of women in these [EDM] spaces.\" While turntablism and broader DJ practices should not be conflated, Katz suggests use or lack of use of the turntable broadly by women across genres and disciplines is impacted upon by what he defines as \"male technophilia.\" Historian Ruth Oldenziel concurs in her writing on engineering with this idea of socialization as a central factor in the lack of engagement with technology. She explains: \"an exclusive focus on women's supposed failure to enter the field … is insufficient for understanding how our stereotypical notions have come into being; it tends to put the burden of proof entirely on women and to blame them for their supposedly inadequate socialization, their lack of aspiration, and their want of masculine values. An equally challenging question is why and how boys have come to love things technical, how boys have historically been socialized as technophiles.\"\nLucy Green has focused on gender in relation to musical performers and creators, and specifically on educational frameworks as they relate to both. She suggests that women's alienation from \"areas that have a strong technological tendency such as DJ-ing, sound engineering and producing\" are \"not necessarily about her dislike of these instruments but relates to the interrupting effect of their dominantly masculine delineations.\" Despite this, women and girls do increasingly engage in turntable and DJ practices, individually and collectively, and \"carve out spaces for themselves in EDM and DJ Culture\". There are various projects dedicated to the promotion and support of these practices such as Female DJs London. Some artists and collectives go beyond these practices to be more gender inclusive. For example, Discwoman, a New York-based collective and booking agency, describe themselves as \"representing and showcasing cis women, trans women and genderqueer talent.\"\n\nWomen's music (also womyn's music or wimmin's music) is music by women, for women, and about women. The genre emerged as a musical expression of the second-wave feminist movement as well as the labor, civil rights, and peace movements. The movement (in the US) was started by lesbians such as Cris Williamson, Meg Christian and Margie Adam, African-American musicians (including Linda Tillery, Mary Watkins, Gwen Avery) and activists such as Bernice Johnson Reagon and her group Sweet Honey in the Rock, and peace activist Holly Near. Women's music also refers to the wider industry of women's music that goes beyond the performing artists to include studio musicians, producers, sound engineers, technicians, cover artists, distributors, promoters, and festival organizers who are also women.\n\nThe International Alliance for Women in Music (IAWM) is an international organization of women and men dedicated to fostering and encouraging the activities of women in music, particularly in the areas of musical activity, such as composing, performing, and research, in which gender discrimination is an historic and ongoing concern. The IAWM engages in efforts to increase the programming of music by female composers, to combat discrimination against female musicians, including as symphony orchestra members, and to include accounts of the contributions of women musicians in university music curricula. To end gender discrimination, the IAWM led successful boycotts of the American concerts of the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra in the 1990s; the \"VPO watch\" continues. Advocacy by the organization has contributed to the inclusion of women composers in college music history textbooks.\n\nWomen in Music (WIM-NY) is an American organization based in New York City which was founded in 1985. It aims to \"support, cultivate and recognize the talents of women\" in music. WIM-NY holds activities and events, including \"seminars, panels, and networking events.\" As well, it gives out annual Touchstone Awards to women in music. WIM-NY members include \"record label executives, artist managers, songwriters, musicians, attorneys, recording engineers, agents, publicists, studio owners, music publishers, online and traditional marketers\" from \"all genres of music and all areas of the [music] industry.\" As of 2015, the President is lawyer Neeta Ragoowansi and the Vice-President is lawyer Jennifer Newman Sharpe. As of 2015, the Board of Directors includes women from Nielsen Music, Warner Music Group, Ableton, Downtown Music Publishing and the Berklee College of Music.\n\nWomen in Music Canada Professional Association (WIMC) is an organization based in Toronto, Ontario, that was established in 2012. It is a federally registered non-profit organization that aims to \"foste[r] equality in the music industry through the support and advancement of women.\" WIMC is financially supported by the federal government, the FACTOR program, the Ontario government and Slaight Music.\n\nWomen in Music (WIM-UK) is a United Kingdom \"membership organization that celebrates women's music making across all genres of music.\" WIM-UK works to raise \"awareness of gender issues in music and support women musicians in their professional development.\" WIM-UK's website provides information on competitions and job opportunities. WIM-UK does a survey of the numbers of women composers, conductors and soloists who appear in the BBC PROMS, the \"largest classical music festival in the world.\" For the 2015 Proms, women composers made up 10% of the program, women conductors made up 4% of the 50 conductors and female instrumental soloists made up 30%.\n\nRiot grrrl is an underground feminist hardcore punk movement that originally started in the early 1990s, in Washington, D.C., and the greater Pacific Northwest, noticeably in Olympia, Washington. It is often associated with third-wave feminism, which is sometimes seen as its starting point. It has also been described as a musical genre that came out of indie rock, with the punk scene serving as an inspiration for a musical movement in which women could express themselves in the same way men had been doing for the past several years.\n\nRiot grrrl bands often address issues such as rape, domestic abuse, sexuality, racism, patriarchy, and female empowerment. Bands associated with the movement include Bikini Kill, Bratmobile, Heavens to Betsy, Excuse 17, Huggy Bear, Cake Like, Skinned Teen, Emily's Sassy Lime, Sleater-Kinney, and also queercore groups like Team Dresch. In addition to a music scene and genre, riot grrrl is a subculture involving a DIY ethic, zines, art, political action, and activism. Riot grrrls are known to hold meetings, start chapters, and support and organize women in music.\n\nThe use of the word \"girl\" was meant to indicate a time when girls are least influenced by societal pressures and therefore have the strongest self-esteem – childhood. The anger behind the movement was noted by the alternate spelling of the word as \"grrrl\", which sounds like a growl.\n\nThey partook in a new type of punk feminism that promoted the idea of do-it-yourself, exchanging manifestos and trading mixed tapes of favorite bands to get the word out. They were tired of women being erased from history or having their experiences misinterpreted and ignored by others. In, response to patriarchal violence, adultism, and heterocentrism, Riot grrrl engaged in negative emotional expressions and rhetoric similar to that of feminism and the punk aesthetic. The feminist argument that the personal is political was revisited in the image that Riot grrrl set forth, similarly to the culture of Punk that self-actualization is not to be found in external forces but rather through an individual's true self. By recognizing and reevaluating the institutional structures that affect individual experiences within social situations, an individual can gain the knowledge to better know herself and therefore know how to present herself to others so that they may know her accurately. Riot grrrl termed this movement to self-actualization, girl love – \"girls learning to love themselves, and each other, against those forces that would otherwise see them destroyed or destroy themselves\".\n\nThe accompanying slogan \"every girl is a riot grrrl\" reinforced the solidarity that women could find amongst themselves. This created an intimate aesthetic and sentimental politic well expressed in the production of zines (a shortened version of \"fanzines\"). Zines were handmade, crafted by individuals who wanted to connect directly with their readers, with simple items like scissors, glue, and tape. They called out injustices and challenged the norms that typically directed the expression of sexuality and domestic abuse, providing a space for women to exchange personal stories to which many others could relate. They challenged girls and women alike to stand up for themselves in a political atmosphere that actively sought to silence them. The shared personal stories were, at times, met with attitudes that reduced the communication to \"it’s all just girls in their bedrooms, sprawled out writing in their diaries, and then they’ll send them to each other\", while the choice to share in that way was an aesthetic one.\n\nIn the midst of this raising of awareness, riot grrrls had to address the generalizations that worked for them but that could not apply to women of color. Not all girls could be riot grrrl after all, for lack of privilege barred them from participating in such acts as writing \"SLUT\" across their stomach in an attempt to reclaim sexual agency. While this performance is an earnest one, racism had already labeled women of color as that term. As observed by Kearny, \"the gender deviance displayed by riot grrrls is a privilege to which only middle-class white girls have access.\" Another aspect of this need for inclusive discourse arose in the movement's preference for concrete knowledge and a disregard for the abstract that would foster theoretical inquiry.\n\nWomen's music festivals, which may also be called womyn's music festivals, have been held since the 1970s. Some women's music festivals are organized for lesbians. The first women's music festival was held in 1973 at Sacramento State University. In May, 1974 the first National Woman's Music Festival was held in Champaign-Urbana, Illinois, founded by University of Illinois student Kristin Lems. It celebrated its fortieth year in Middleton, Wisconsin, from 2–5 July 2015. As of 2015, it is a four-day event that includes concerts, workshops, comedy, theatre, films and writing events that \"promote and affirm the creative talents and technical skills of women\" from diverse, multicultural communities, including women with disabilities. While most attendees are women, men can attend. The Michigan Womyn's Music Festival was created in 1976, and became the largest festival in the United States.\n\nAn example of a festival that focuses on music is the Women in Music Festival held by the University of Rochester's Eastman School of Music. The festival began in 2005 as a celebration of the contributions of women to composition, performance, teaching, scholarship, and music administration. From its modest beginnings of Eastman students and faculty members performing music by women composers, the Festival has grown to include additional concerts and events throughout Rochester, NY and to host composers-in-residence, who have included Tania León (2007), Nancy Van de Vate (2008), Judith Lang Zaimont (2009), Emma Lou Diemer (2010), and Hilary Tann (2011). The festival has presented more than 291 different works by 158 composers.\n\nMany other festivals have been created throughout the United States and Canada since the mid-1970s and vary in size from a few hundred to thousands of attendees. The Los Angeles Women's Music Festival began in 2007 with over 2500 attendees. Events outside the US include the Sappho Lesbian Witch Camp, near Vancouver, British Columbia in Canada and the Sistajive Women's Music Festival in Australia. Some festivals are focused around the lesbian community, such as the Ohio Lesbian Festival, near Columbus Ohio, which was created in 1988; Christian Lesbians Out (CLOUT), which holds a gathering in early August in Washington, DC; The Old Lesbian Gathering, a festival in Minneapolis, Minnesota; and RadLesFes, an event held in the middle of November near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Feminist-oriented festivals include the Southern Womyn's Festival in Dade City, Florida; the Gulf Coast Womyn's Festival in Ovett, Missouri; Wiminfest in Albuquerque, New Mexico; Womongathering, the Festival of Womyn's Spirituality; the Michigan Womyn's Music Festival, near Hart, Michigan; and the Midwest Womyn's Festival in DeKalb, Illinois.\n\nWhile women's music festivals are centered on music, they support many other facets of lesbian and feminist culture. Some festivals are designed to provide a safe space for women's music and culture. Many festivals are held on college campuses or in remote rural locations, where attendees stay in campsites. Many festivals offer workshops on arts, crafts, fitness, and athletic events that women may not be able find in mainstream culture. In her book \"Eden Built by Eves\", Bonnie Morris describes how women's music festivals serve women throughout the stages of their lives. Since the festivals are organized by women, for women, daycare and childcare facilities are typically provided. Festivals often provide a safe space for coming of age rituals for young women, adult romance and commitment ceremonies, the expression of alternative perspectives on motherhood, and the expression of grief and loss.\n\nLilith Fair was a concert tour and travelling music festival that consisted solely of female solo artists and female-led bands. It was founded by Canadian musician Sarah McLachlan, Nettwerk Music Group's Dan Fraser and Terry McBride, and New York talent agent Marty Diamond. It took place during the summers of 1997 to 1999, and was revived in the summer of 2010.\nMcLachlan organized the festival after she became frustrated with concert promoters and radio stations that refused to feature two female musicians in a row. Bucking conventional industry wisdom, she booked a successful tour for herself and Paula Cole. At least one of their appearances together – in McLachlan's home town, on 14 September 1996 – went by the name \"Lilith Fair\" and included performances by McLachlan, Cole, Lisa Loeb and Michelle McAdorey, formerly of Crash Vegas.\n\nThe next year, McLachlan founded the Lilith Fair tour, taking \"Lilith\" from the medieval Jewish legend that Lilith was Adam's first wife. In 1997, Lilith Fair garnered a $16 million gross, making it the top-grossing of any touring festival. Among all concert tours for that year, it was the 16th highest grossing.\nThe festival received several pejorative nicknames, including \"Breast-fest\", \"Girlapalooza\", and \"Clam Jam\".\n\n\nMillar, B. 2008 \"selective hearing:gender bias in the music preferences young adults\", Psychology of music, vol. 46, no.4, pp. 429–445\n"}
