{"id": "58878766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58878766", "title": "Aegae (Macedonia)", "text": "Aegae (Macedonia)\n\nAegae or Aigai (), also Aegeae or Aigeai (Αἰγέαι), was a city in Emathia in ancient Macedonia, and the burial-place of the Macedonian kings. The commanding and picturesque site upon which the town was built was the original centre of the Macedonians, and the residence of the dynasty which sprang from the Temenid Perdiccas. The seat of government was afterwards transferred to the marshes of Pella, which lay in the maritime plain beneath the ridge through which the Lydias forces its way to the sea. But the old capital always remained the national hearth (ἑστία, Diod. Excerpt. p. 563) of the Macedonian race, and the burial-place for their kings. The body of Alexander the Great, though by the intrigues of Ptolemy I Soter, it was taken to Memphis, was to have reposed at Aegae, – the spot where his father Philip II of Macedon fell by the hand of Pausanias of Orestis.\n\nIts site is located near the modern town of Vergina.\n\nIn 1977, Greek archaeologist Manolis Andronikos started excavating the Great Tumulus at Aegae near modern Vergina, the capital and burial site of the kings of Macedon, and found that two of the four tombs in the tumulus were undisturbed since antiquity. Moreover, these two, and particularly Tomb II, contained fabulous treasures and objects of great quality and sophistication.\n\nAlthough there was much debate for some years, as suspected at the time of the discovery Tomb II has been shown to be that of Philip II as indicated by many features, including the greaves, one of which was shaped consistently to fit a leg with a misaligned tibia (Philip II was recorded as having broken his tibia). Also, the remains of the skull show damage to the right eye caused by the penetration of an object (historically recorded to be an arrow).\n\nA study of the bones published in 2015 indicates that Philip was buried in Tomb I, not Tomb II. On the basis of age, knee ankylosis and a hole matching the penetrating wound and lameness suffered by Philip, the authors of the study identified the remains of Tomb I in Vergina as those of Philip II. Tomb II instead was identified in the study as that of King Arrhidaeus and his wife Eurydice II. However this latter theory had previously been shown to be false.\n\nMore recent research gives further evidence that Tomb II contains the remains of Philip II.\n"}
{"id": "3131677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3131677", "title": "Al-Hakim Nishapuri", "text": "Al-Hakim Nishapuri\n\nAbu Abd-Allah Muhammad ibn Abd-Allah al-Hakim al-Nishapuri () (933 - 1014), also known as \"Ibn al-Bayyiʿ\",) was a Persian Sunni scholar and the leading traditionist of his age, frequently referred to as the \"Imam of the Muhaddithin\" or the \"Muhaddith of Khorasan.\" \n\nAl-Hakim, from Nishapur, had vast numbers of teachers in Khurasan, Iraq, Transoxiana and elsewhere. His students included Imam al-Bayhaqi.\n\nAl-Hakim wrote Al-Mustadrak alaa al-Sahihain. He started writing it in the year when he was 72 years old. He reputedly said: \"I drank water from Zamzam and asked Allâh for excellence in writing books\".\n\nOn the 3rd of Safar 405 al-Hakim went into the bath, came out after bathing, said, \"Ah,\" and died wearing but a waist-cloth before he had time to put on a shirt. Later, one of al-Hakim's students, Al-Hasan ibn Ash`ath al-Qurashî said: \"I saw al-Hâkim in my dream riding a horse in a handsome appearance and saying: 'Salvation.' I asked him: `Al-Hakim! In what?' He replied: 'Writing hadith.'\" \n\nShah Waliullah stated that:\nThe Shafi'i hadith specialist Ibn al-Salah honours al-Hakim as one of the 'seven compilers of useful compilations' who has the distinction of being one of the few men to have compiled significant works in all three genres of hadith literature.\n\nThe Shafi'i historian al-Dhahabi calls him \"the great hafiz and imam of the traditionists\".\n\nDespite this, he had been accused of being a Shi'a, but al-Subki stoutly denies this. He rejects the label of Shi`i as baseless because Ibn Asakir includes al-Hakim among the Asharis, who consider the Shias as innovators. Others noted to al-Hakim's sincerity in narrating hadith as the first hadith al-Hâkim narrated is:\n\nHe authored the following works among others:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "234993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234993", "title": "Albert Memorial", "text": "Albert Memorial\n\nThe Albert Memorial is situated in Kensington Gardens, London, directly to the north of the Royal Albert Hall. It was commissioned by Queen Victoria in memory of her beloved husband Prince Albert, who died in 1861. The memorial was designed by Sir George Gilbert Scott in the Gothic Revival style. Opened in July 1872 by Queen Victoria, with the statue of Albert ceremonially \"seated\" in 1876, the memorial consists of an ornate canopy or pavilion, in the style of a Gothic ciborium over the high altar of a church, containing a statue of the prince facing south. The memorial is tall, took over ten years to complete, and cost £120,000 (the equivalent of about £10,000,000 in 2010). The cost was met by public subscription.\n\nThe memorial has been Grade I listed since 1970.\n\nWhen Prince Albert died on 14 December 1861, at the age of 42, the thoughts of those in government and public life turned to the form and shape of a suitable memorial, with several possibilities, such as establishing a university or international scholarships, being mentioned. Queen Victoria, however, soon made it clear that she desired a memorial \"in the common sense of the word\". The initiative was taken by the Lord Mayor of London, William Cubitt, who, at a meeting on 14 January 1862, appointed a committee to raise funds for a design to be approved by the Queen. The control and future course of the project, though, moved away from Mansion House, and ended up being controlled by people close to the Queen, rather than the Mayor. Those who determined the overall direction from that point on were the Queen's secretary, General Charles Grey, and the keeper of the privy purse, Sir Charles Phipps. Later, following the deaths of Grey and Phipps, their roles were taken on by Sir Henry Ponsonby and Sir Thomas Biddulph. Eventually, a four-man steering committee was established, led by Sir Charles Lock Eastlake. Eastlake had overall control for the project until his death in 1865. An initial proposal for an obelisk memorial failed, and this was followed in May 1862 by the appointment of a seven-strong committee of architects. A range of designs were submitted and examined. Two of the designs (those by Philip Charles Hardwick and George Gilbert Scott) were passed to the Queen in February 1863 for a final decision to be made. Two months later, after lengthy deliberations and negotiations with the government over the costs of the memorial, Scott's design was formally approved in April 1863.\n\nThe popularity of the Prince Consort led to the creation of several \"Albert Memorials\" around the United Kingdom. The Kensington memorial was not the earliest ; the first to be erected was Thomas Worthington's Albert Memorial in Albert Square, Manchester, unveiled in 1865. Both memorials present the figure of Prince Albert enclosed within a Gothic ciborium, and the similarities of design have been remarked on.\n\nThere is some controversy as to whether the memorial in Manchester was influenced by the publication of Scott's design, or whether Scott was himself inspired by Worthington's design, or whether both architects decided on their canopy designs independently.\n\nWorthington's design was published in \"The Builder\" on 27 September 1862, before Scott's final design was unveiled. However, writing in his \"Recollections\", Gilbert Scott suggested his own design was original: My idea in designing the Memorial was to erect a kind of ciborium to protect a statue of the Prince; and its special characteristic was that the ciborium was designed in some degree on the principles of the ancient shrines. These shrines were models of imaginary buildings, such as had never in reality been erected; and my idea was to realise one of these imaginary structures with its precious materials, its inlaying, its enamels, etc. etc. ... this was an idea so new as to provoke much opposition.\n\nThe Albert Memorial was not the first revivalist design for a canopied statue in a Gothic style – the Scott Monument in Edinburgh had been designed by George Meikle Kemp over twenty years earlier, and may itself have influenced Worthington's designs for Manchester.\n\nThe commission to make the seated figure of Prince Albert for the memorial was initially given to Baron Carlo Marochetti, a favourite sculptor of Queen Victoria. However, his first version was rejected by the architect of the monument, Sir George Gilbert Scott, and Marochetti died in late 1867, before a satisfactory second version could be completed. In May 1868, John Henry Foley, sculptor of the monument's \"Asia\" group was commissioned to make the portrait, and his sketch model approved in December of that year. A full-sized model was placed on the monument in 1870, and the design approved by the Queen. The final statue was cast in bronze by Henry Prince and Company, of Southwark; Foley died in August 1874 before casting was complete.\n\nThe gilt bronze statue was ceremonially \"seated\" in 1875, three years after the memorial opened. Albert is shown looking south, towards the Royal Albert Hall from which the architectural form of the memorial as a whole should not be considered as being intentionally isolated, it having a particular connection as a result of the location, relating to the 'World's Fair' in which the Prince was directly involved and as shown in the contemporary maps of the Ordnance Survey, including in particular the still continuing element known as the 'Battle of the Scales' (metric and imperialist scales), there being a further statue of the Prince at the south side of the Royal Albert Hall. In this connection his statue holds a catalogue of the Great Exhibition, and is robed as a Knight of the Garter.\n\nThe central part of the memorial is surrounded by the elaborate sculptural \"Frieze of Parnassus\" (named after Mount Parnassus, the favorite resting place for the Greek muses), which depicts 169 individual composers, architects, poets, painters, and sculptors. Musicians and poets were placed on the south side, with painters on the east side, sculptors on the west side, and architects on the north side. Henry Hugh Armstead carved the figures on the south and east side, the painters, musicians and poets (80 in total), and grouped them by national schools. John Birnie Philip carved the figures on the west and north side, the sculptors and architects, and arranged them in chronological order.\n\nAt the corners of the central area, and at the corners of the outer area, there are two allegorical sculpture programs: four groups depicting Victorian industrial arts and sciences (agriculture, commerce, engineering and manufacturing), and four more groups representing Africa, the Americas, Asia and Europe at the four corners, each continent-group including several ethnographic figures and a large animal. (A camel for Africa, a bison for the Americas, an elephant for Asia and a bull for Europe.)\n\nThe form of the monument \"is clearly derived\" from the Gothic Scaliger Tombs outside a church in Verona, The mosaics for each side and beneath the canopy of the Memorial were designed by Clayton and Bell and manufactured by the firm of Salviati from Murano, Venice.\n\nThe memorial's canopy features several mosaics as external and internal decorative artworks. Each of the four external mosaics show a central allegorical figure of the four arts (poetry, painting, architecture and sculpture), supported by two historical figures either side. The historical figures are: King David and Homer (\"POESIS\" – poetry), Apelles and Raphael (painting), Solomon and Ictinus (architecture), and Phidias and Michelangelo (sculpture). Materials used in the mosaics include enamel, polished stone, agate, onyx, jasper, cornelian, crystal, marble, and granite.\n\nAround the canopy, below its cornice, is a dedicatory legend split into four parts, one for each side. The legend reads: \"Queen Victoria And Her People • To The Memory Of Albert Prince Consort • As A Tribute Of Their Gratitude • For A Life Devoted to the Public Good\".\n\nThe pillars and niches of the canopy feature eight statues representing the practical arts and sciences: Astronomy, Geology, Chemistry, Geometry (on the four pillars) and Rhetoric, Medicine, Philosophy and Physiology (in the four niches).\n\nNear the top of the canopy's tower are eight statues of the moral and Christian virtues, including the four cardinal virtues and the three theological virtues. The virtues are: Faith, Hope, Charity and Humility, and Fortitude, Prudence, Justice and Temperance. Humility is considered to be annexed to the virtue of temperance. Above these, towards the top of tower, are gilded angels raising their arms heavenwards. At the very top of the tower is a gold cross.\n\nBelow the Memorial is a large undercroft, consisting of numerous brick arches, which serves as the foundation that supports the large weight of the stone and metal used to build the monument.\n\nThe memorial was planned by a committee of architects led by Sir George Gilbert Scott. The other architects, some of whom died during the course of the project, or were replaced, included Carlo Marochetti, Thomas Leverton Donaldson, William Tite, Sydney Smirke, James Pennethorne, Matthew Digby Wyatt, Philip C. Hardwick, William Burn and Edward Middleton Barry.\n\nThe sculptor Henry Hugh Armstead coordinated this massive effort among many artists of the Royal Academy, including Thomas Thornycroft (carved the \"Commerce\" group), Patrick MacDowell (carved the \"Europe\" group, his last major work), John Bell (carved the \"America\" group), John Henry Foley (carved the \"Asia\" group and started the statue of Albert), William Theed (carved the \"Africa\" group), William Calder Marshall, James Redfern (carved the four Christian and four moral virtues including \"Fortitude\"), John Lawlor (carved the \"Engineering\" group) and Henry Weekes (carved the \"Manufactures\" group). The Scottish sculptor William Calder Marshall carved the \"Agriculture\" group. The figure of Albert himself, although started by Foley, was completed by Thomas Brock, in what was Brock's first major work.\n\nArmstead created some 80 of the figure sculptures on the southern and eastern sides of the memorial's podium. The north and west sides were carved by the sculptor John Birnie Philip. Armstead also sculpted the bronze statues representing \"Astronomy\", \"Chemistry\", \"Rhetoric\", and \"Medicine\".\n\nHenry Weekes carved the allegorical work \"Manufactures\" (1864–70). Although Weekes was not on Queen Victoria's original list of sculptors, being selected to work on the project only after John Gibson declined to participate, his group occupies the preferable south side of the finished monument. A central female figure holds an hourglass, symbolising the critical nature of time to industry, while an ironworker stands at his anvil and a potter and weaver offer their wares.\n\nBy the late 1990s the Memorial had fallen into a state of some decay. A thorough restoration was carried out by Mowlem which included cleaning, repainting, and re-gilding the entire monument as well as carrying out structural repairs. In the process the cross on top of the monument, which had been put on sideways during an earlier restoration attempt, was returned to its correct position. Some of the restoration, including repairs to damaged friezes, were of limited success.\n\nThe centrepiece of the Memorial is a seated figure of Prince Albert. Following restoration, this is now covered in gold leaf. For eighty years the statue had been covered in black paint. Various theories had existed that it was deliberately blackened during World War I to prevent it becoming a target for Zeppelin bombing raids or domestic anti-German sentiment. However, English Heritage's research prior to the restoration suggests that the black coating pre-dates 1914 and may have been a response to atmospheric pollution that had destroyed the original gold leaf surface. Further restoration work, including re-pointing the steps surrounding the memorial, commenced in the summer of 2006.\n\nPublic afternoon tours are held on the first Sunday each month allowing visitors a closer look at the Frieze of Parnassus.\n\n"}
{"id": "8492422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8492422", "title": "Andrés de Olmos", "text": "Andrés de Olmos\n\nAndrés de Olmos (c.1485 – 8 October 1571), Franciscan priest and extraordinary grammarian and ethno-historian of Mexico's Indians, was born in Oña, Burgos, Spain, and died in Tampico in New Spain (modern-day Tampico, Tamaulipas, Mexico). He is best known for his grammar, the first in the New World, of the Classical Nahuatl language.\n\nAndrés de Olmos in early youth went to live with a married sister in Olmos, whence his name. He entered the Franciscan convent in Valladolid and was ordained a priest. He was appointed an assistant to Fray Juan de Zumárraga in 1527, and accompanied Zumárraga when the latter was sent by the Emperor Charles V in 1528 to be the first bishop of New Spain. As early as 1533 Olmos was recognized as unusually adept in the Nahuatl language, and well-informed about the history and customs of the Nahuatl-speaking peoples. He contributed to the founding in 1536 of the Colegio de Santa Cruz de Tlatelolco, the first European-based institution of higher learning in the New World.\n\nOlmos wrote a book, unfortunately lost, about the pre-Hispanic history, beliefs and religious practices of Mexico (some have suggested that this work might be the mysterious Crónica X). He also published a collection of \"Huehuetlahtolli\", moral instruction from Nahuatl-speaking elders to their juniors, expressed in a highly stylized and polished, high-register language. He wrote several sermons in Nahuatl which have survived.\n\nBut he is best known for his \"Arte para aprender la lengua mexicana\", completed in 1547. Although it was based on his own and others' previously written notes about Classical Nahuatl grammar, this was the first relatively complete grammatical description of an indigenous language of the New World. It antedates, by three years, the first grammatical description of the French language (by Louis Maigret in 1550.) \n\nOlmos also published a \"Nahuatl Vocabulary\". Much of his work on the \"Arte\" and the \"Vocabulary\" was done in Hueytlalpan, in Totonac country, where he settled ca. 1539. There Olmos learned Totonac, and published an \"Arte\" and Vocabulary in that language: unfortunately these are lost. In 1554 he moved to the Huasteca region, where he learned the Huastec or Teenek language, and wrote yet another \"Arte\" and Vocabulary describing it.\n\nNahuatl, Totonac, and Huastec are from completely different linguistic stocks, and represent three of the most important of Mexico's twenty language families. To describe the grammars, and initiate the lexical descriptions, of three such disparate languages is an extraordinary feat; very much more to be the first to do so. Olmos' work, particularly the \"Arte para aprender la lengua mexicana\", was the model for many other Artes that followed on Nahuatl and other languages of the New World.\n\n"}
{"id": "2527129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2527129", "title": "Anna Mae Hays", "text": "Anna Mae Hays\n\nAnna Mae Violet McCabe Hays (February 16, 1920 – January 7, 2018) was an American military officer who served as the 13th chief of the U.S. Army Nurse Corps. She was the first woman in the U.S. Armed Forces to be promoted to a General Officer rank; in 1970, she was promoted to the rank of Brigadier General. Hays paved the way for equal treatment of women, countering occupational sexism, and made a number of recommendations, which were accepted into military policy.\n\nHays was born in 1920 in Buffalo, New York as the middle of three children in the family. Her father's name was Daniel Joseph McCabe II (1881–1939), while her mother's name was Mattie Florence Humphrey (1885–1961), who was of Welsh descent; both her parents were members of The Salvation Army. During Hays' childhood the family moved several times in the western New York and eastern Pennsylvania areas, but settled in Allentown, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania, in 1932. She had an elder brother, Daniel Joseph and a younger sister, Katherine Evangeline. Hays attended Allentown High School, now William Allen High School, graduating with honours in 1938. Hays had a love of music, playing the piano, the organ and the French horn, and wanted to go to Juilliard School to study music but due to a lack of funds for tuition she decided to pursue nursing instead.\n\nFollowing her high school studies, Hays enrolled in 1939 at the Allentown General Hospital School of Nursing, from which she graduated in 1941, having obtained a diploma in nursing. In May 1942, she joined the Army Nurse Corps, and was sent to India in January 1943, serving with the 20th Field Hospital, to the town of Ledo in Assam. The hospital was stationed at the entrance to Ledo Road, which cut through the jungles into Burma. The living and working conditions were somewhat primitive; the buildings were made of bamboo, and dysentery, leeches and snakes were common, particularly during monsoon seasons. Just over two years later, in April 1945, she was promoted to the rank of first lieutenant.\n\nAfter serving two and a half years in India, Hays was on leave in the United States when the war ended. Remaining with the Corps, she served as an operating room nurse and later as a head nurse at Tilton General Hospital at Fort Dix, New Jersey; as obstetrics supervisor at Valley Forge General Hospital in Phoenixville, Pennsylvania; and as a head nurse at Fort Myer, Virginia.\n\nIn August 1950, she was deployed to Inchon to serve in the Korean War. She was posted to the 4th Field Hospital for seven months, and later described the conditions in the hospital there as worse than those in India in World War II, due to the cold temperatures in the operating room and a lack of supplies. In the following fourteen months, she and 31 other nurses treated more than 25,000 patients. As she had done in India, Hays spent some of her off-duty time in Korea assisting chaplains by playing a field pump organ for church services, some of which were held on the front lines. Following her tour in Korea, Hays was transferred to Tokyo Army Hospital in April 1951 and served a year there. A year later, she was transferred to Fort Indiantown Gap, Pennsylvania as an obstetric and pediatric director. After graduating from the Nursing Service Administration Course at Fort Sam Houston, Texas, she was appointed head nurse at the Walter Reed Hospital in Washington D.C. emergency room, where she served as the head nurse of the Radioisotope Clinic. During this time she was selected as one of three private nurses for President Dwight D. Eisenhower after he became ill with ileitis; on her retirement she said that this experience was one of the most memorable of her nursing career. She also earned a bachelor's degree in nursing education in 1958 from Columbia University, and a Master of Science in Nursing degree in 1968 from The Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C. In October 1960, she became the chief nurse of the 11th Evacuation Hospital in Pusan. From 1963 to 1966, she was assistant chief of the Army Nurse Corps. In July 1967, she was promoted to the rank of Colonel, and on September 1 of the same year she was appointed chief of the Corps, a position she held until her retirement on August 31, 1971.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War Hays travelled to Vietnam three times to monitor American nurses stationed there. She also managed the development of new training programs and an increase in the number of nurses serving overseas.\n\nOn May 15, 1970 President Richard Nixon appointed Hays to the rank of brigadier general and on June 11, 1970, she was promoted at a ceremony, officiated by the Army Chief of Staff, General William C. Westmoreland, and the Secretary of the Army, Stanley R. Resor. Following Hays' promotion, Elizabeth P. Hoisington, Director of the Women’s Army Corps, was also promoted to the rank of brigadier general. Hays said in her address to the gathering, that the general stars \"reflect[ed] the dedicated, selfless, and often heroic efforts of Army nurses throughout the world since 1901 in time of peace and war.\" After her appointment she asked to be dropped off at the army officers' club front entrance, countering the prevailing occupational sexism. Although entitled to enter and use the club before, female officers were expected to come through the side entrance.\n\nHays made a number of recommendations regarding the treatment of women, which were accepted into military policy, including not to automatically discharge officers for becoming pregnant and not to determine appointments to the Army Nurse Corps Reserve based on the age of the nurse's dependents. In addition, regulations were changed to allow spouses of female service members to claim similar privileges to spouses of male service members.\n\nIn addition to the military honours Hays received, her service was also recognised in the community; in 2015, Lehigh and Northampton counties named the Coplay-Northampton Bridge after her. In 2012, she was named to Lehigh County’s Hall of Fame. In November 2017, she was presented with a Flag of Valor quilt during a Veterans Day ceremony at Knollwood.\n\nShe married William A. Hays, in July 1956, who directed the Sheltered Workshops that provided jobs for disabled people in Washington D.C. William died in 1962/63.\n\nHays died at Knollwood Retirement Facility, in Washington, D.C. on January 7, 2018 of complications from a heart attack, at the age of 97. She could have been buried at Arlington National Cemetery, but she had chosen instead to be buried with her father in Grandview Cemetery in South Whitehall Township. Three days later, Pennsylvania governor Tom Wolf ordered the state flag at the Capitol Complex and at all state facilities in Allentown to fly at half staff in honor to her passing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31454615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31454615", "title": "Archaeological Society of Slovenia", "text": "Archaeological Society of Slovenia\n\nThe Archaeological Society of Slovenia is a non-governmental organization that unites Slovene archaeologists on a voluntary basis. The society organises presentations of new archaeological research, lectures and study trips, and publishes the Slovene Archaeology Society Bulletin, as well as Arheo Journal. Its members participate in international conferences and symposia. Every year the Award of the Archaeological Society of Slovenia is bestowed to individuals for professional achievements.\n\nThe society plays an important role in presenting actual issues to the public. Recently the archaeologists have been facing lack of storage places due to 50 to 100 archaeological sites researched every year, mainly on highway construction. Several tons of archaeological finds are excavated every year.\n\nThere are a few archaeological parks in Slovenia, such as Most na Soči, Roman Emona, the Church of St George in Legen near Slovenj Gradec, Šempeter Necropolis, Rifnik Archaeological Site near Celje, and Vranje near Sevnica. Most Slovene regional museums also have a permanent archaeological exhibition.\n\nThe society's award and related recognitions have been granted yearly since 1996. The award is given for lifetime achievement and for outstanding contributions to archaeology. The society also recognises the important achievements in the field of archaeology in the previous year and commemorates merited individuals by giving them honorary and worthy membership.\n\nPrevious award winners have been (2013), Irena Šavel (2009), (2008), Mitja Guštin (2007), Mira Strmčnik Gulič (2006), Marijan Slabe (2003), Ivan Turk (2002), Nada Osmuk (2001), Ljudmila Plesničar Gec (2000), Iva Mikl Curk (1999), Paola Korošec (1998), and Stanko Pahič (1998).\n"}
{"id": "20024797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20024797", "title": "Battle of Yering", "text": "Battle of Yering\n\nThe Battle of Yering was a conflict between Indigenous Australians of the Wurundjeri nation and the Border Police which occurred on 13 January 1840, on the outskirts of Melbourne\n\nThe conflict arose after a quarrel between Wurundjeri-william people and settler, James Anderson, over the right to harvest a potato crop on Wurundjeri land at what is now known as Warrandyte. A stand-off occurred and the clansmen moved to William Ryrie’s Yering Station. Troopers of the Border Police led by Captain Henry Gisborne, who was Commissioner of Crown Lands, lured Jaga Jaga (Jacky-Jacky) and some of the Wurundjeri men to Yering station homestead where Jaga Jaga was captured and handcuffed. The other Wurundjeri men quickly retreated.\n\nWurundjeri men then approached the homestead with muskets and spears, whereupon Gisborne and his troopers mounted a counterattack, during which several shots were exchanged, the Wurundjeri choosing to retreat into the nearby billabongs. Having lured the troopers away as a diversion, other warriors approached the homestead and freed Jaga Jaga.\n\nNo white settlers or troopers were injured in the exchange, and injuries on the part of the Wurundjeri are unknown.\n\nGisborne later wrote to Superintendent (later Governor) Charles La Trobe saying \"I am unable to account for their never having hit us as they are capital marksmen\". There was no investigation of the incident initiated, no charges laid, and the incident was passed over.\n\nJaga Jaga, was also known as \"Bor-rer bor-rer\" and was the nephew of Billibellary, a ngurungaeta of the Wurundjeri people.\n\nOn 13 January 2007 at the Yarra Flats Billabongs the Shire of Yarra Ranges with Murrundindi, ngurungaeta of the Wurundjeri people, unveiled a historical plaque and pictograph commemorating the \"Battle of Yering\" 167 years previously. The plaques were organised by \"The Friends of the Yarra Flats Billabongs\" in conjunction with \"Yarra Ranges Friends in Reconciliation\" and \"Nillumbik Reconciliation Group\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22241545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22241545", "title": "Bristol Bus Boycott", "text": "Bristol Bus Boycott\n\nThe Bristol Bus Boycott of 1963 arose from the refusal of the Bristol Omnibus Company to employ Black or Asian bus crews in the city of Bristol, England, UK. In common with other British cities at the time, there was widespread racial discrimination in housing and employment at that time against \"Coloureds\". Led by youth worker Paul Stephenson and the West Indian Development Council, the boycott of the company's buses by Bristolians lasted for four months until the company backed down and overturned their discriminative colour bar policy.\n\nThe boycott drew national attention to racial discrimination in Britain, and the campaign was supported by national politicians, with interventions being made by church groups and the High Commissioner for Trinidad and Tobago. The Bristol Bus Boycott was considered by some to have been influential in the passing of the Race Relations Act 1965 which made \"racial discrimination unlawful in public places\" and the Race Relations Act 1968, which extended the provisions to employment and housing.\n\nBristol in the early-1960s had an estimated 3,000 residents of West Indian origin, some of who had served in the British military during World War II and some who had emigrated to the UK more recently. A large number lived in the area around City Road in St Pauls. They suffered discrimination in housing and employment, and some encountered violence from Teddy Boy gangs of White British youths. This community set up their own churches and associations, including the West Indian Association, which began to act as a representative body.\n\nOne of their foremost grievances was the colour bar operated by the Bristol Omnibus Company, which had been a nationalised company owned by the UK Government since 1950, and operated through the Transport Holding Company. Although there was a reported labour shortage on the buses, Black prospective employees were refused employment offers as bus crews, although they were employed in lower paid positions in workshops and in canteens. The \"Bristol Evening Post\" and the \"Western Daily Press\" both ran series on the colour bar, which was blamed by company management on the Transport and General Workers' Union (TGWU), which represented bus workers. Local union officials denied that there was any colour bar, but in 1955 the Passenger Group of the TGWU had passed a resolution that \"coloured\" workers should not be employed as bus crews. Andrew Hake, curator of the Bristol Industrial Mission, recalled that: \"The TGWU in the city had said that if one black man steps on the platform as a conductor, every wheel will stop.\"\n\nThe bus workers' concern, apart from racism, was that a new competitive source of labour could reduce their earnings. Pay was low and workers relied on overtime to get a good wage. One shop steward said, \"people were fearful of an influx of people from elsewhere (on the grounds it) would be reducing their earnings potential.\"\n\nFour young West Indian men, Roy Hackett, Owen Henry, Audley Evans and Prince Brown, formed an action group, later to be called the West Indian Development Council. They were unhappy with the lack of progress in fighting discrimination by the West Indian Association. Owen Henry had met Paul Stephenson, whose father was from West Africa, and who had been to college. The group decided that the articulate Stephenson would be their spokesman. Stephenson set up a test case to prove the colour bar existed by arranging an interview with the bus company for Guy Bailey, a young warehouseman and Boys' Brigade officer. When Stephenson told the company that Bailey was West Indian, the interview was cancelled. Inspired by the refusal of Rosa Parks to give up her seat on a bus in Alabama and the ensuing Montgomery Bus Boycott in the United States in 1955, the activists decided on a bus boycott in Bristol.\n\nTheir action was announced at a press conference on 29 April 1963. The following day, they claimed that none of the city's West Indians were using the buses and that many White people supported them. In an editorial, the \"Bristol Evening Post\" pointed out that the TGWU opposed the apartheid system in South Africa and asked what trade union leaders were doing to counteract racism in their own ranks. When reporters questioned the bus company about the boycott, the general manager, Ian Patey, said: \nThe advent of coloured crews would mean a gradual falling off of white staff. It is true that London Transport employ a large coloured staff. They even have recruiting offices in Jamaica and they subsidise the fares to Britain of their new coloured employees. As a result of this, the amount of white labour dwindles steadily on the London Underground. You won't get a white man in London to admit it, but which of them will join a service where they may find themselves working under a coloured foreman? ... I understand that in London, coloured men have become arrogant and rude, after they have been employed for some months.\n\nStudents from Bristol University held a protest march to the bus station and the local headquarters of the TGWU on 1 May, which attracted heckling from bus crews as they passed through the city centre, according to the local press. Local MP Tony Benn contacted then Labour Opposition leader Harold Wilson, who spoke out against the colour bar at an Anti-Apartheid Movement rally in London. On 2 May, local Labour Party Alderman Henry Hennessey spoke of the apparent collusion between bus company management and the TGWU over the colour bar. On 3 May, the ruling Labour Group on the city council threatened him with expulsion, despite his honourable service of over forty years.\n\nTony Benn, Fenner Brockway and former cricketer Learie Constantine also condemned the bus company. Constantine was then serving as High Commissioner for Trinidad and Tobago. Constantine wrote letters to the bus company and Stephenson and spoke out against the colour bar to reporters when he attended the cricket match between the West Indies and Gloucestershire at the County Ground, which took place from 4 to 7 May. The West Indies team refused to publicly support the boycott, saying that sport and politics did not mix. During the game, local members of the Campaign Against Racial Discrimination (CARD) distributed leaflets urging spectators to support the action.\n\nThe local branch of the TGWU refused to meet with a delegation from the West Indian Development Council, and an increasingly bitter war of words was fought out in the local media. Ron Nethercott, South West Regional Secretary of the union, persuaded a local black TGWU member, Bill Smith, to sign a statement which called for quiet negotiation to solve the dispute. It condemned Stephenson for causing potential harm to the city's Black and Asian population. Nethercott launched an attack on Stephenson in the \"Daily Herald\" newspaper, calling him dishonest and irresponsible. This led to a libel case in the High Court, which awarded Stephenson damages and costs in December 1963.\n\nThe Bristol Council of Churches launched a mediation attempt, saying\n\nWe seriously regret that what may prove an extended racial conflict arising from this issue has apparently been deliberately created by a small group of West Indians professing to be representative. We also deplore the apparent fact that social and economic fears on the part of some white people should have placed the Bristol Bus Company in a position where it is most difficult to fulfil the Christian ideal of race relations.\n\nThis in turn was criticised by Robert Davison, an official at the Jamaican High Commission, who stated that it was \"nonsense to describe a group of West Indians as unrepresentative when no representative West Indian body existed.\"\n\nAt a May Day rally, held on Sunday 6 May in Eastville, local Trades Council members publicly criticised the TGWU. On the same day Paul Stephenson had organised a demonstration march to St Mary Redcliffe church, but there was a poor turnout. Some local West Indians said they should not ripple the water and, according to Roy Hackett, they may have feared victimisation. The dispute led to what has been described as one of the largest mailbags that the \"Bristol Evening Post\" had ever received, with contributors writing in support of both sides of the issue.\n\nThe union, the city Labour establishment and the Bishop of Bristol, Oliver Stratford Tomkins, ignored Stephenson and tried to work with Bill Smith of the TGWU to resolve the dispute. Learie Constantine continued with his support for the campaign, meeting with the Lord Mayor of Bristol and Frank Cousins, leader of the Transport and General Workers Union. In addition, he went to the Bristol Omnibus Company's parent, the Transport Holding Company, and persuaded them to send officials to talk with the union. The company chairman told Constantine that racial discrimination was not company policy.\nNegotiations between the bus company and the union continued for several months until a mass meeting of 500 bus workers agreed on 27 August to end the colour bar. On 28 August 1963, Ian Patey announced that there would be no more discrimination in employing bus crews. It was on the same day that Martin Luther King made his famous \"I Have a Dream\" speech at the March on Washington. On 17 September, Raghbir Singh, a Sikh, became Bristol's first non-White bus conductor. A few days later two Jamaican and two Pakistani men joined him.\n\nIn 1965, the United Kingdom Parliament passed a Race Relations Act, which made \"racial discrimination unlawful in public places.\" This was followed by the Race Relations Act 1968 which extended the provisions to housing and employment. The enactment of this legislation has been cited by some as having been influenced by the Bristol bus boycott. Robert Verkaik, Legal Affairs Correspondent for \"The Independent\" newspaper, said \"Few doubt that without Mr Stephenson's efforts it would have been difficult for Harold Wilson's Labour government to bring in Britain's first anti-discrimination laws.\" In 2003, as part of Black History Month, BBC Radio 4 broadcast a programme about the boycott.\n\nUnite, the successor to the Transport and General Workers Union, issued an apology in February 2013. Laurence Faircloth, the union's South West secretary said of the union's stance at the time, \"It was completely unacceptable. I can well accept the sense of injustice and pain that has been felt because [of] what happened in Bristol all those years ago.\"\n\nIn 2009, Stephenson was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE), for his part in organising the bus boycott. Bailey and Hackett were also awarded OBEs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52663330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52663330", "title": "Carmen Iglesias", "text": "Carmen Iglesias\n\nMaría del Carmen Iglesias Cano, known as Carmen Iglesias, is a Spanish historian. \nShe holds the non-hereditary title Countess of Gisbert, which was bestowed on her by King Juan Carlos.\n\nAs Director of the Real Academia de la Historia, she has been responsible for the launch of the electronic version of Spain´s dictionary of national biography, the \"Diccionario biográfico español\".\n\nIglesias studied at the Complutense University of Madrid.\n\nIglesias is a specialist in eighteenth-century history, and her publications include work on the French philosopher Montesquieu.\n\nIn 1991 she became a member of the Real Academia de la Historia, where she has been the Director since 2014. She is also a member of the academy which regulates the Spanish language, the Real Academia Española.\n\n\"El pensamiento de Montesquieu: política y ciencia natural\". 1984, republished 2005. (link to lecture on Montesquieu)\n"}
{"id": "49236715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49236715", "title": "Charles Godakumbura", "text": "Charles Godakumbura\n\nDoctor Charles Edmund Godakumbura (5 December 1907 - 7 February 1977) was the Commissioner of Archaeology in Ceylon (Sri Lanka) from 1956 to 1967.\n\nHe was born on 5 December 1907 in Chilaw in the North Western province of the country. He was the second in a family of five siblings and his mother died when he was very young. Godakumbura received his primary education at the school where his father was a teacher.\n\nIn the later years, he continued his studies Kingswood College in Kandy. Concurrently, he attended classes at Sangaraja Pirivena, Kandy where he studied Pali and Sanskrit. In 1934, he completed his BA (General) examination at the University of London in Sinhalese, Pali and Sanskrit. In 1936, he passed the BA(Hons) examination in Indo-Aryan Studies. In 1938, he was awarded the MA in Indo-Aryan Studies. In 1945 he was awarded a Ph.D. from the University of London for his thesis on Sinhalese Syntax. In 1954 he was awarded a D.Litt from the University of London for his work in Pali, Sanskrit and Sinhala.\n\nAfter getting through the Cambridge Senior, he joined the tutorial staff of Kingswood College. He later joined Nalanda College, Colombo while also working as a visiting lecturer in the Department of Oriental Studies of the University College, Colombo. He was recalled to continue teaching at the School of Oriental and African Studies of the University of London taking an absence of leave from government service. This ended in 1959 when he returned to take up the position as the Commissioner of Archaeology.\n\nWhilst based in Colombo, he joined the Department of Archaeology in the early 1950s as the deputy Commissioner when Professor (then Dr) Senarath Paranavithana was the Commissioner. Paranavithana was the first Sri Lankan to be appointed the head of the Department. He was confirmed as the Commissioner when Paranavithana retired in 1956, although he was still in England. He subsequently moved back to Sri Lanka to take up the post of Commissioner, a role in which he continued to occupy until his retirement in 1967.\n\nGodakumbura married Chandra Ranhotti, whom he met during his days at University of Colombo, and they had one daughter. After separating from Chandra Ranhotti, he married Chandra Rajapaksa in 1952, with whom he had two had sons and a daughter.\n\nAfter retiring from the Archaeological Department Godakumbura served as the President of the Sri Lanka branch of the Royal Asiatic Society until 1970. During this time he continued contributing to local and international publications.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29969160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29969160", "title": "Dacica", "text": "Dacica\n\nDacica (or \"De bello dacico\") is a Latin work by Roman Emperor Trajan, written in the spirit of Julius Caesar's commentaries like \"De Bello Gallico\", and describing Trajan's campaigns in Dacia.\n\nIt is assumed to be based on Criton of Heraclea's Getica, a work on the history of the Daco-Getae. Criton was Trajan's Greek chief physician and procurator, during the Dacian wars.\n\nBased on the research so far, \"Dacica\" is considered lost. However, one sentence survived in the Latin grammar work by Priscian. To describe a grammatical rule, Priscian cites Trajan: \"inde Berzobim, deinde Aizi processimus \", meaning \"We then advanced to Berzobim, next to Aizi\". The phrase describes the initial penetration into Dacia by the Roman army. It also mentions two Dacian towns where later Roman castra were built: Berzovia and Aizis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17624596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17624596", "title": "Elda Neyis Mosquera", "text": "Elda Neyis Mosquera\n\nElda Neyis Mosquera García (nom de guerre Karina a.k.a. Nelly Ávila Moreno) is the former commander of the 47th Front of FARC-EP, a communist rebel group in Colombia. She surrendered to the Colombian Military on May 18, 2008. She was subsequently tried in court and found guilty of massacres, kidnapping, murder, among others, and sentenced to 33 years in jail, but on March 6, 2009 it was announced that she was to be released from prison to serve as \"promoter of peace,\" and to serve as an example to other rebels to entice them to surrender.\n\nMoreno was a member of FARC for 24 years prior to her surrender. At a news conference in Medellín, Moreno said she surrendered because of increasing Colombian army pressure, the deterioration of rebel forces and her fear she might be killed by her own troops for the $900,000 bounty on her head, in the wake of a previous FARC commander (Iván Ríos) having been murdered by his own bodyguards.\n\n"}
{"id": "11566464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11566464", "title": "F. Landa Jocano", "text": "F. Landa Jocano\n\nFelipe Landa Jocano (February 5, 1930 – October 27, 2013) was a Filipino anthropologist, educator, and author known for his significant body of work within the field of Philippine Anthropology, and in particular for documenting and translating the Hinilawod, a Western Visayan folk epic. His eminence within the field of Philippine anthropology was widely recognized during his lifetime, with National Artist F. Sionil Jose dubbing him \"the country’s first and foremost cultural anthropologist\"\n\nJocano served as Professor Emeritus at the Asian Center of the University of the Philippines and Executive Director of PUNLAD Research House, Inc. and a professor in University of the Philippines. He has authored numerous books on various aspects of Filipino Society and Culture.\n\nJocano was born in Cabatuan, Iloilo in 1930 - the ninth of eleven children born to Eusebio Jocano, a persevere farmer, and Anastacia Landa.\n\nHe finished his elementary studies at a public school in Iloilo, and then ran away to Manila because his family could not afford to send him to high school. He eventually graduated from the Arellano High School in Manila, working his way through to graduation. After this, he tried to enroll in some college courses, but distractions and an illness forced him to return to his native Iloilo in 1954, where we eventually earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from the Central Philippine University in 1957.\n\nIt was during Jocano's period of return to Iloilo that he first developed an interest in folklore. This interest brought him into contact with Robert Fox, then an anthropologist working for the National Museum of the Philippines, who got him a job as \"research aid\" at the museum - doing mostly janitorial work. Through his work ethic and by taking the initiative to draw the museum director's attention to his typing skills, Jocano was eventually moved to the museum's typing pool.\n\nWork at the National Museum inspired Jocano to write a series of articles discussing Philippine legends surrounding plant and animal life, which was published in the Manila Times. The Department of Education took note of the series and asked Jocano if it could be published in \"Diwang Kayumanggi\", a high school teaching supplement regularly issued by the Department of Education at the time. Jocano's condition for the reprinting was that the publication would also indicate his position as \"janitor.\" As a result, Jocano was promoted from \"Research Aid\" to \"Scientist 1\", although his job description remained the same.\n\nTaking advantage of a study grant, Jocano went to the University of Chicago to earn a master's degree in Anthropology, graduating in 1962. He took up a teaching position there and later got his Ph.D. in Anthropology from the same university.\n\nJocano eventually decided to come home to teach at the University of the Philippines, where he served until his retirement 31 years later. In that time, he served among other functions, as Chairman of the UP Department of Anthropology, director of Philippine Studies Program at the UP Asian Center, Dean of the UP Institute of Philippine Studies, and head of Asian Center Museum Laboratory.\n\nJocano's association with the University of the Philippines continued after retirement, as he was named professor emeritus of the UP Asian Center.\n\nJocano's work as a scholarly writer was prolific and wide-ranging. His study of ethnology expanded into numerous aspects of Filipino life - from folklore and pre-colonial history to international relations, to rural community and urban slum life. He was one of the first to even suggest the ethnological study of the development of the Philippines' corporate culture.\n\nIn 1999, he was awarded a special citation for a lifetime of writing and publishing on various aspects of Philippine culture by the Manila Critics Circle.\n\nAs one of the earliest Filipino-born researchers to receive proper scholarly training in anthropology, Jocano became a pioneer in the use of Participant Observation as a research methodology in Philippine ethnographic research, applying it in numerous places, including Capiz, Ilocos, and notably, the urban poor community of Looban, Sta Mesa in Manila.\n\nJocano's work in the Slum of Looban was seminal in its insistence on \"\"living in the community and taking part, whenever possible in the activities of the members, observing what they do and checking the observed behaviour in terms of what they say and do.\" Earlier research on slums mostly relied on the use of questionnaires, which Jocano dismissed as inappropriate for studying urban poor society: \"One cannot possibly go up and paper and ask questions without arousing suspicions especially among street corner gang members.\"\"\n\nNational Artist F. Sionil Jose recounts that some of Jocano's adventures in Participant Observation resulted in memorably humorous episodes:\n\nOne of Jocano's earliest major contributions to the field of cultural anthropology and a significant contribution to recorded Filipino folk literature was the documentation of the epic poem Hinilawod (which means \"Tales From The Mouth of The Halawod River\").\n\nThe epic recounts the story of the exploits of three Sulodnon demigod brothers, Labaw Donggon, Humadapnon and Dumalapdap of ancient Panay. Jocano, assisted by a radio technician from the Central Philippine University, convinced Sulod folk chanters Ulang Udig and Hugan-an to recount the story, and allow them to record it on cassette. The process of acquiring this permission took years, from Jocano's first contact with Ulang Udig in 1955 to the recording of Hugan-an's 30-hour performance of the epic in 1957. Jocano eventually also published the text in his book \"Hinilawod: Adventures of Humadapnon Tarangban I\" (The epic was once again recorded in 1999, by researcher Alejo Zata, working among Sulod natives who still performed it and for whom the epic was still very much an active part of their culture.)\n\nThere have been numerous stage performances of Hinilawod, all based mostly on Jocano's text. In response to a 2012 performance of a stage version of the epic at the Cultural Center of the Philippines by a theater group called Hiyas Kayumanggi, National Artist F.Sionil Jose noted:\n\nJocano was one of the first scholars to suggest alternatives to H. Otley Beyer's Wave Migration Theory of migration to the Philippines.\n\nHis Core Population Theory proposed that there weren't clear discrete waves of migration, but a long process of cultural evolution and movement of people. The theory suggests that early inhabitants of Southeast Asia were once of the same ethnic group with similar culture, but eventually -through a gradual process driven by environmental factors - differentiated themselves from one another.\n\nOther prominent anthropologists like Robert Fox, Alfredo E. Evangelista, Jesus Peralta, Zeus A. Salazar, and Ponciano L. Bennagen agreed with Jocano. However some still preferred Beyer's theory as the more acceptable model, including anthropologist E. Arsenio Manuel.\n\nJocano married Adria Payad and they had two children, Felipe Jr. and Lizabeth. He died in 2013 at the age of 83.\n\n"}
{"id": "51605520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51605520", "title": "Gaston Deschamps", "text": "Gaston Deschamps\n\nCharles Pierre Gaston Napoléon Deschamps (5 January 1861 – 15 May 1931) was a French archaeologist, writer and journalist.\n\nAfter he joined the École normale supérieure in 1882, Deschamps was appointed a member of the French School at Athens in 1885. He conducted archaeologic excavations in Amorgos, Chios and in Anatolia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14672160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14672160", "title": "Genrich Eiche", "text": "Genrich Eiche\n\nHenrich Christoforovich Eiche (Latvian. Indriķis Eiche; September 29 (October 12) 1893, Riga — June 25, 1968, Jūrmala) — served in World War I as an officer in the Russian Imperial Army, and in 1917 was elected Chairman of the Military Revolutionary Committee of his regiment. He was a Soviet military commander, military historian, and held leading civil posts.\n\nJohann Henrich Martin Eiche was born on 29 September 1893, in Riga, Russian Empire. His father Christoph and mother Lina (née Laudon) were ethnic Latvians from rural areas of the center and north-west of the Courland Governorate respectively. Christoph's income from working as a forwarding agent enabled his wife to concentrate on taking care of Heinrich and his older brother Friedrich Wilhelm (born in 1890). At the age of 12 Eiche took part in several demonstrations and meetings of workers during the course of the 1905 Russian Revolution, witnessing their violent suppression by Orenburg Cossacks. Eiche's political views were further influence by his cousins who were active members of the Latvian branch of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party. In January 1906, he enrolled into the Riga Commercial Academy, graduating on 23 December 1911. In January 1912, he began his apprenticeship at the Riga based Helmsing & Grimm shipping agency. In late 1913, Eiche finished his apprenticeship becoming a full time employee in the company's import department. In a pursuit of his passion for music Eiche visits Berlin where he enrolls into a composition correspondence course in the Berlin Conservatory. \n\nHis studies were interrupted by outbreak of World War I, whereupon he was drafted into the Russian Imperial Army as a private on 17 October 1914. After completing Warrant Officers’ Training School in 1915 he was sent to the front. He commanded a squadron, and was a staff captain.\n\nAfter the February Revolution of 1917 he was elected to the regimental committee, and during the Russian Revolution of 1917 he was elected Chairman of the Military Revolutionary Committee of the 245th Infantry Regiment. In November 1917 he was elected to the Council of Soldiers’ Deputies of the 10th Army, and was a member of the board for the formation of the Red Guard.\n\nHe took part in suppressing the insurrection of the Polish corps under General I. R. Dovbor-Musnitsky. In March 1918 he voluntarily enlisted in the Red Army. From August 1918 to November 1919 he commanded a regiment, a brigade and the 26th Infantry Division (beginning April 1919) on the Eastern Front. From November 1919 to January 1920 he was Commander of the 5th Army.\n\nFrom March 1920 to April 1921 Eiche served as Commander-in-Chief of the People's Revolutionary Army of the Far Eastern Republic. He was recalled to Moscow only after his mission was completed: i.e., the entire Far East was merged into the buffer Far Eastern Republic; all the major White Guard groups in the Far East were eliminated; the Japanese troops occupying the Far East were forced to withdraw from the Trans-Baikal, Amur and Primorye regions; and partisan units were reorganized into the regular army following the pattern of the Red Army of the time.\n\nIn 1921 he was sent to Belarus as a Commander to lead the struggle to eliminate guerilla groups and White Russian partisan units. This mission was completed by the spring of 1922. For successful discharge of his duties he was awarded the Certificate of Merit of the All-Russia Central Executive Committee.\n\nIn March 1922, upon order of the Central Committee Bureau of Organization, he was transferred from Belarus to Central Asia to counter the Basmachi Revolt in Fergana as Commander of the Fergana Region.\n\nFrom 1923 until the day of his arrest in April 1938 he worked in government institutions in Moscow, including more than 12 years (beginning in 1924) in leading positions in Narkomvneshtorg - the Ministry of Foreign Trade.\n\nIn May 1938 he was arrested and convicted by the NKVD’s Counterintelligence Department on false charges of involvement in a Latvian counterrevolutionary organization and as the cousin of Robert I. Eiche, a former member of the Central Committee (sentenced to be shot, posthumously rehabilitated in the 1950s). After sentencing he first was incarcerated in the NKVD’s Lefortovo Prison in Moscow, where during interrogations he endured beatings and torture, and then he served time in the camps (gulag). After release from the camps he was in exile in the Far North. Also arrested as \"the wife of an enemy of the people\" was Maria Alexandrovna Eiche. She was incarcerated in Butyrka Prison. After her release she voluntarily followed her husband into exile.\n\nEiche was rehabilitated sixteen years later. In April 1954 the Military Board of the USSR Supreme Court repealed the decision of the NKVD Counterintelligence Department and dismissed the case for absence of the event of a crime.\n\nReturning to Moscow after his release, as a member of the Military-Historical and Scientific Society Council of the Central Museum of the Soviet Army, Eiche was also active as a military historian and writer, devoting a great deal of time and effort to the editing of military/historical literature.\n\nEiche is the author of several works on the history of the Civil War in the Urals, Siberia, and the Far East.\n\nHe is buried at Moscow’s Vvedenskoye Cemetery.\n\nFor participating in all of the battles of the 245th Infantry, Berdyansk Regiment, 62nd Infantry Division, 10th Army of the Western Front from August 1915 to the end of 1917, Eiche was awarded:\n• Order of St. Stanislaus, 3rd class, with swords and ribbon\n• Order of St. Stanislaus, 2nd class, with swords\n• Order of St. Anne, 4th class\n• Order of St. Anne, 3rd class, with swords and ribbon\n• Order of St. Anne, 2nd class, with swords\n\nDuring the years of the Civil War Eiche was awarded:\n• Order of the Red Banner No. 96\n• Certificate of Merit of the All-Russia Central Executive Committee on the award of a gold engraved watch (as Commander of the 3rd Brigade, 26th Infantry Division, for successful operations against Kolchak in the winter of 1918 - Urals Operation)\n• Special Custom Award Certificate issued by the Revolutionary Military Council of the Republic, as Divisional Commander of the 26th Infantry, for the successful forced crossing of the Belaya River, and the crushing defeat and capture of Kolchak's army - Birsk Operation, 1919.\n• Certificate of Award from the All-Russia Central Executive Committee as Commander of the Minsk region (1922)\n\nAfter his release Eiche was awarded:\n• Order of Lenin in honor of the 50th anniversary of the Soviet regime (1967)\n\n• Forced Crossing of the Belaya River by Units of the 5th Army of the Eastern Front in June 1919, Moscow-Leningrad, 1928 [Форсирование реки Белой частями 5-й армии Восточного фронта в июне 1919 г., М.- Л., 1928];\n• Tactical Lessons from the Civil War, Moscow, 1931 [Тактические поучения гражданской войны, М., 1931];\n• Kolchak’s Ufa Adventure, Moscow, 1966 [Уфимская авантюра Колчака, М., 1966];\n• Defeated Rear, Moscow, 1966 [Опрокинутый тыл, М., 1966].\n\n• Бадиков Р.А. В тени М.В. Фрунзе и В.И. Чапаева: деятельность Г.Х. Эйхе в апреле-июне 1919 г. // Российская история. 2016. № 3. — С. 111-126. In Russian.\n• Бадиков Р.А. Генрих Христофорович Эйхе // Вопросы истории. 2015. № 1. — С. 45-59. In Russian.\n"}
{"id": "4827327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4827327", "title": "George Hunt Williamson", "text": "George Hunt Williamson\n\nGeorge Hunt Williamson (December 9, 1926 – January 1986), aka \"Michael d'Obrenovic\" and \"Brother Philip\",\nwas an American flying saucer contactee, channel, and metaphysical author who came to prominence in the 1950s.\n\nWilliamson, born in Chicago, to parents George Williamson and Bernice Hunt, was mystically inclined as a teenager, but transferred some of his occult enthusiasm to flying saucers in the late 1940s. He was a student of archaeology at least as early as 1946 when he recorded a site in southern Illinois. By 1949, he was a student of anthropology at the University of Arizona and did archaeological fieldwork in Lincoln County, New Mexico. In October 1949, he helped found the Yavapai County Archaeological Society in Prescott, Arizona where he lived until at least 1955. Although he apparently did not remain active long, this society was the foundation of an archaeological group that is still active. Based upon fieldwork in northern Mexico, he published an article on fiestas. Although details are uncertain, he was expelled from the university on academic grounds in early 1951 and does not appear to have ever gotten a college degree, although he did put \"Dr.\" in front of his name.\n\nHaving read William Dudley Pelley's book \"Star Guests\" (1950), Williamson worked for a while for Pelley's cult organization, helping to put out its monthly publication \"Valor\". (As a matter of fact, Williamson did not know either the man or his work BEFORE August 1953…. well AFTER the events of November 20, 1952, related in \"Flying Saucers Have Landed\"… and he worked for Pelley in 1954… See Zirger & Martinelli, \"The Incredible Life of George Hunt Williamson\", p. 101). Pelley had generated huge quantities of communications with \"advanced intelligences\" via automatic writing, and very clearly was an immediate inspiration to Williamson, who combined his fascination with the occult and with flying saucers by trying to contact flying saucer crews with a home-made Ouija board.\nAfter hearing about the flying-saucer-based religious cult of George Adamski, perhaps through Pelley, Williamson and his wife, and fellow saucer believers Alfred and Betty Bailey, became regular visitors to Adamski's commune at Palomar Gardens and eventually members of Adamski's Theosophy-spinoff cult. They witnessed Adamski \"telepathically\" channelling and tape-recording messages from the friendly humanoid Space Brothers who inhabited every solar planet. The Williamsons, the Baileys and two other Adamski disciples became the \"witnesses\" to Adamski's supposed meeting with Orthon, a handsome blond man from Venus, near Desert Center, California on November 20, 1952. In fact the \"witnesses\" experienced nothing more than Adamski telling them to wait and stay put while he walked over a hill, then came back into view an hour later, with a preliminary story of his experiences - a story subsequently greatly changed for book publication in \"Flying Saucers Have Landed\" (1953), as Williamson himself later pointed out.\nThe initial publication of Adamski's tale in an Arizona newspaper on November 24, 1952, triggered an explosive growth\nin the membership of Adamski's cult. The Williamsons and Baileys continued their Ouija-board sessions, getting their own personal revelations from the Space Brothers, which led to a drastic falling-out with Adamski.\n\nIn 1954, Williamson and Bailey published \"The Saucers Speak\" which emphasized supposed short-wave radio communications with friendly saucer pilots, but in fact depended for almost all its contents on the Ouija board sessions Bailey and Williamson held regularly from 1952 onward. They heard from Actar of Mercury, Adu of Hatonn in Andromeda, Agfa Affa from Uranus, Ankar-22 of Jupiter, Artok of Pluto, Awa from Outer Space, Garr from Pluto, Kadar Lacu from Saturn, Karas the Space Brother, Lomec of Venus, Nah-9 from Neptune, Noro of the Saucer Fleet, Oara of Saturn, Ponnar of Hatoon (presumably not the same Ponnar who was the exclusive contact of Frances Swan), Regga of Mars, Ro of Torresoton, Sedat of Hatonn, Suttku of Saturn, Terra of Venus, Wan-4 of the Safanian planets, Zago of Mars and Zo of Neptune. The \"board\" contacts were in good if uninformative English, but the few reported radio contacts, in International Morse code, left a little to be desired. Sample: \"AFFA FROM THE P. RA RRR OK K5 K5 FROM THE PLA CHANT RRT IT.\" Perhaps influenced by the Shaver Mystery, Williamson also reveals that while most space aliens are helpful and good, there are some very bad ones hanging out near Orion and headed for earth in force, bent on conquest.\n\nWilliamson became a more obscure competitor to Adamski, eventually combining his own channelling and the beliefs of a small contactee cult known as the Brotherhood of the Seven Rays, led by Marion Dorothy Martin, to produce a series of books about the secret, ancient history of mankind: \"Other Tongues—Other Flesh\" (1957), \"Secret Places of the Lion\" (1958), \"UFOs Confidential\" with John McCoy (1958),\" Road in the Sky\" (1959) and \"Secret of the Andes\" (1961). These books, when not rewriting the Old and New Testaments to depict every important person as a reincarnation of one of only six or eight different \"entities,\" expanded on the usual late 19th Century Theosophical teachings that friendly Space Brothers in the distant past had taught the human race the rudiments of civilization and, according to Williamson, spacemen had also helped materially in the founding of the Jewish and Christian religions, impersonating \"gods\" and providing \"miracles\" when needed. Williamson spiced his books with additional Ouija-revelations to the effect that some South, Central and North American ancient civilizations actually began as colonies of human-appearing extraterrestrials. Williamson can be considered a more mystically-inclined forerunner of Erich von Däniken; \"Secret Places of the Lion\" also displays the clear and explicit influence of Immanuel Velikovsky.\n\nLike his role-model Adamski, Williamson enjoyed referring to himself as \"professor,\" and claimed an extensive academic background, which in fact was completely non-existent. In the late 1950s he withdrew from the contactee scene and even changed his name, concocting a new fictitious academic and family background to go along with the new name, while continuing to live in California. His 1961 book was published under a still different pen name. Little is known about his life between 1961 and his reported death in 1986, other than that at one time he became a priest of the Nestorian Church, actually the Assyrian Church of the East.\n\nAs of 2006, a number of his books are still in print, in paperback editions. The only other well-known 1950s contactees who still have books in print are Daniel Fry and Truman Bethurum.\n\nHis books include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24480687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24480687", "title": "Gheorghe Șalaru", "text": "Gheorghe Șalaru\n\nGheorghe Șalaru (born November 11, 1961 in Gradiște) is a Moldovan politician. He was the Environment Minister in the First Vlad Filat Cabinet and in the Second Filat Cabinet.\n\nHe is a member of the Liberal Party (Moldova).\n\n"}
{"id": "25069529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25069529", "title": "Grain race", "text": "Grain race\n\nGrain Race or The Great Grain Race was the informal name for the annual windjammer sailing season generally from South Australia's grain ports on Spencer Gulf to Lizard Point, Cornwall on the southwesternmost coast of the United Kingdom, or to specific ports. A good, fast passage Australia-to-England via Cape Horn was considered anything under 100 days.\n\nThe cargo was grain, usually wheat. The sailing ships which loaded in Spencer Gulf from January to June were, in a broader context, \"vivid evidence that South Australia was now inextricably bound into the rapidly developing global network of the wheat trade.\" The masters of the square-rigged grain carriers engaged in unofficial competition who would sail fastest across the southern ocean, around Cape Horn and up the Atlantic. While the race was informal, it was a source of betting and prestige. The competition gathered so much attention that in 1928 the \"International Paint Company\" donated a silver cup for the fastest passage.\n\nThe ship with most victories was the four-masted barque \"Herzogin Cecilie\" at six times. The fastest ship was \"Parma\" in 1933 in 83 days, and the events of the voyage are described by the captain's apprentice, Betty Jacobsen, in her book \"A Girl Before the Mast\"\n. The grain trade \"flourished through the 1930s and reached its peak in 1939.\" That year thirteen windjammers rode at anchor off Port Victoria. \"With the exception of two German ships, all ... flew the flag of the Gustaf Erikson Line and the pale blue Finnish cross.\"\n\nThe last of the Grain Races was in 1949. \"Pamir\" (Captain Verner Björkfelt), fully loaded with 60,000 sacks of Australian barley for distilleries in Scotland, set sail at Port Victoria on 28 May 1949, rounded Cape Horn on 11 July, passed Lizard Point on 2 October and arrived at Falmouth just beyond it in 128 days. \"Passat\" (Captain Ivar Hägerstrand), left Port Victoria four days after \"Pamir\", but passed \"Pamir\" somewhere in the Roaring Forties of the southern Pacific Ocean on the 6,000 mile run to Cape Horn, and arrived at Penarth Dock South Wales after 110 days. However, it bestowed on \"Pamir\" the honor of being the last windjammer with a commercial load to round Cape Horn.\n\nWhile the general public thought of the wheat trade as the Grain Race, \"there was no compelling economic reason to be first home with a cargo of grain, and the [ship] owners severely discouraged racing by their officers (although they did not mind if their ship arrived ahead of another).\" Racing in the gale-force winds of the Roaring Forties and around Cape Horn meant straining ships and losing sails and gear, and it meant the expense of repairing or replacing those damages and losses. \"Unlike the hell-bent racing captains of the celebrated tea-clippers of the 1860s ... the captain of a grain ship who lost gear more likely would lose his job.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14013", "title": "Hernán Cortés", "text": "Hernán Cortés\n\nHernán Cortés de Monroy y Pizarro Altamirano, Marquis of the Valley of Oaxaca (; ; 1485 – December 2, 1547) was a Spanish \"Conquistador\" who led an expedition that caused the fall of the Aztec Empire and brought large portions of what is now mainland Mexico under the rule of the King of Castile in the early 16th century. Cortés was part of the generation of Spanish colonizers who began the first phase of the Spanish colonization of the Americas.\n\nBorn in Medellín, Spain, to a family of lesser nobility, Cortés chose to pursue adventure and riches in the New World. He went to Hispaniola and later to Cuba, where he received an \"encomienda\" (the right to the labor of certain subjects). For a short time, he served as \"alcalde\" (magistrate) of the second Spanish town founded on the island. In 1519, he was elected captain of the third expedition to the mainland, an expedition which he partly funded. His enmity with the Governor of Cuba, Diego Velázquez de Cuéllar, resulted in the recall of the expedition at the last moment, an order which Cortés ignored.\n\nArriving on the continent, Cortés executed a successful strategy of allying with some indigenous people against others. He also used a native woman, Doña Marina, as an interpreter. She later bore his first son. When the Governor of Cuba sent emissaries to arrest Cortés, he fought them and won, using the extra troops as reinforcements. Cortés wrote letters directly to the king asking to be acknowledged for his successes instead of being punished for mutiny. After he overthrew the Aztec Empire, Cortés was awarded the title of \"Marqués del Valle de Oaxaca\", while the more prestigious title of Viceroy was given to a high-ranking nobleman, Antonio de Mendoza. In 1541 Cortés returned to Spain, where he died six years later of natural causes but embittered.\n\nBecause of the controversial undertakings of Cortés and the scarcity of reliable sources of information about him, it is difficult to describe his personality or motivations. Early lionizing of the conquistadors did not encourage deep examination of Cortés. Later reconsideration of the conquistadors in the context of modern anti-colonial sentiment has done little to enlarge understanding of Cortés. As a result of these historical trends, descriptions of Cortés tend to be simplistic, and either damning or idealizing.\n\nCortés himself used the form \"Hernando\" or \"Fernando\" for his given name, as seen in his signature and the title of an early portrait. William Hickling Prescott's \"Conquest of Mexico\" (1843) also refers to him as Hernando Cortés. At some point writers began using the shortened form of \"Hernán\" more generally.\n\nCortés was born in 1485 in the town of Medellín, in modern-day Extremadura, Spain. His father, Martín Cortés de Monroy, born in 1449 to Rodrigo or Ruy Fernández de Monroy and his wife María Cortés, was an infantry captain of distinguished ancestry but slender means. Hernán's mother was Catalína Pizarro Altamirano.\n\nThrough his mother, Hernán was second cousin once removed of Francisco Pizarro, who later conquered the Inca Empire of modern-day Peru, and not to be confused with another Francisco Pizarro, who joined Cortés to conquer the Aztecs. (His maternal grandmother, Leonor Sánchez Pizarro Altamirano, was first cousin of Pizarro's father Gonazalo Pizarro y Rodriguez.) Through his father, Hernán was related to Nicolás de Ovando, the third Governor of Hispaniola. His paternal great-grandfather was Rodrigo de Monroy y Almaraz, 5th Lord of Monroy.\n\nAccording to his biographer, chaplain, and friend Francisco López de Gómara, Cortés was pale and sickly as a child. At the age of 14, he was sent to study Latin under an uncle in Salamanca. Modern historians have misconstrued this personal tutoring as time enrolled at the University of Salamanca.\n\nAfter two years, Cortés returned home to Medellín, much to the irritation of his parents, who had hoped to see him equipped for a profitable legal career. However, those two years at Salamanca, plus his long period of training and experience as a notary, first in Valladolid and later in Hispaniola, gave him knowledge of the legal codes of Castile that he applied to help justify his unauthorized conquest of Mexico.\n\nAt this point in his life, Cortés was described by Gómara as ruthless, haughty, and mischievous. The 16-year-old youth had returned home to feel constrained life in his small provincial town. By this time, news of the exciting discoveries of Christopher Columbus in the New World was streaming back to Spain.\n\nPlans were made for Cortés to sail to the Americas with a family acquaintance and distant relative, Nicolás de Ovando, the newly appointed Governor of Hispaniola. (This island is now divided between Haiti and the Dominican Republic). Cortés suffered an injury and was prevented from traveling. He spent the next year wandering the country, probably spending most of his time in Spain's southern ports of Cadiz, Palos, Sanlucar, and Seville. He finally left for Hispaniola in 1504 and became a colonist.\n\nCortés reached Hispaniola in a ship commanded by Alonso Quintero, who tried to deceive his superiors and reach the New World before them in order to secure personal advantages. Quintero's mutinous conduct may have served as a model for Cortés in his subsequent career. The history of the conquistadores is rife with accounts of rivalry, jockeying for positions, mutiny, and betrayal.\n\nUpon his arrival in 1504 in Santo Domingo, the capital of Hispaniola, the 18-year-old Cortés registered as a citizen; this entitled him to a building plot and land to farm. Soon afterward, Governor Nicolás de Ovando granted him an \"encomienda\" and appointed him as a notary of the town of Azua de Compostela. His next five years seemed to help establish him in the colony; in 1506, Cortés took part in the conquest of Hispaniola and Cuba. The expedition leader awarded him a large estate of land and Indian slaves for his efforts.\n\nIn 1511, Cortés accompanied Diego Velázquez de Cuéllar, an aide of the Governor of Hispaniola, in his expedition to conquer Cuba. Velázquez was appointed Governor of New Spain. At the age of 26, Cortés was made clerk to the treasurer with the responsibility of ensuring that the Crown received the \"quinto\", or customary one fifth of the profits from the expedition.\n\nVelázquez was so impressed with Cortés that he secured a high political position for him in the colony. He became secretary for Governor Velázquez. Cortés was twice appointed municipal magistrate (\"alcalde\") of Santiago. In Cuba, Cortés became a man of substance with an \"encomienda\" to provide Indian labor for his mines and cattle. This new position of power also made him the new source of leadership, which opposing forces in the colony could then turn to. In 1514, Cortés led a group which demanded that more Indians be assigned to the settlers.\n\nAs time went on, relations between Cortés and Governor Velázquez became strained. This began once news reached Velázquez that Juan de Grijalva had established a colony on the mainland where there was a bonanza of silver and gold, and Velázquez decided to send him help. Cortés was appointed Captain-General of this new expedition in October 1518, but was advised to move fast before Velázquez changed his mind.\n\nWith Cortés' experience as an administrator, knowledge gained from many failed expeditions, and his impeccable rhetoric he was able to gather six ships and 300 men, within a month. Velázquez's jealousy exploded and he decided to put the expedition in other hands. However, Cortés quickly gathered more men and ships in other Cuban ports.\n\nCortés also found time to become romantically involved with Catalina Xuárez (or Juárez), the sister-in-law of Governor Velázquez. Part of Velázquez's displeasure seems to have been based on a belief that Cortés was trifling with Catalina's affections. Cortés was temporarily distracted by one of Catalina's sisters but finally married Catalina, reluctantly, under pressure from Governor Velázquez. However, by doing so, he hoped to secure the good will of both her family and that of Velázquez.\n\nIt was not until he had been almost 15 years in the Indies that Cortés began to look beyond his substantial status as mayor of the capital of Cuba and as a man of affairs in the thriving colony. He missed the first two expeditions, under the orders of Francisco Hernández de Córdoba and then Juan de Grijalva, sent by Diego Velázquez to Mexico in 1518.\n\nIn 1518, Velázquez put Cortés in command of an expedition to explore and secure the interior of Mexico for colonization. At the last minute, due to the old argument between the two, Velázquez changed his mind and revoked Cortés's charter. He ignored the orders and, in an act of open mutiny, went anyway in February 1519. He stopped in Trinidad, Cuba, to hire more soldiers and obtain more horses. Accompanied by about 11 ships, 500 men (including seasoned slaves), 13 horses, and a small number of cannon, Cortés landed on the Yucatan Peninsula in Mayan territory. There he encountered Geronimo de Aguilar, a Spanish Franciscan priest who had survived a shipwreck followed by a period in captivity with the Maya, before escaping. Aguilar had learned the Chontal Maya language and was able to translate for Cortés.\n\nIn March 1519, Cortés formally claimed the land for the Spanish crown. Then he proceeded to Tabasco, where he met with resistance and won a battle against the natives. He received twenty young indigenous women from the vanquished natives, and he converted them all to Christianity.\n\nAmong these women was La Malinche, his future mistress and mother of his son Martín. Malinche knew both the Nahuatl language and Chontal Maya, thus enabling Cortés to communicate with the Aztecs through Aguilar. At San Juan de Ulúa on Easter Sunday 1519, Cortés met with Moctezuma II's Aztec Empire governors Tendile and Pitalpitoque.\nIn July 1519, his men took over Veracruz. By this act, Cortés dismissed the authority of the Governor of Cuba to place himself directly under the orders of King Charles. In order to eliminate any ideas of retreat, Cortés scuttled his ships.\n\nIn Veracruz, he met some of the tributaries of the Aztecs and asked them to arrange a meeting with Moctezuma II, the \"tlatoani\" (ruler) of the Aztec Empire. Moctezuma repeatedly turned down the meeting, but Cortés was determined. Leaving a hundred men in Veracruz, Cortés marched on Tenochtitlan in mid-August 1519, along with 600 soldiers, 15 horsemen, 15 cannons, and hundreds of indigenous carriers and warriors.\n\nOn the way to Tenochtitlan, Cortés made alliances with indigenous peoples such as the Totonacs of Cempoala and the Nahuas of Tlaxcala. The Otomis initially, and then the Tlaxcalans fought with the Spanish in a series of three battles from 2 to 5 September 1519, and at one point, Diaz remarked, \"they surrounded us on every side\". After Cortés continued to release prisoners with messages of peace, and realizing the Spanish were enemies of Moctezuma, Xicotencatl the Elder and Maxixcatzin persuaded the Tlaxcalan warleader, Xicotencatl the Younger, that it would be better to ally with the newcomers than to kill them.\n\nIn October 1519, Cortés and his men, accompanied by about 1,000 Tlaxcalteca, marched to Cholula, the second largest city in central Mexico. Cortés, either in a pre-meditated effort to instill fear upon the Aztecs waiting for him at Tenochtitlan or (as he later claimed, when he was being investigated) wishing to make an example when he feared native treachery, massacred thousands of unarmed members of the nobility gathered at the central plaza, then partially burned the city.\nBy the time he arrived in Tenochtitlan the Spaniards had a large army. On November 8, 1519, they were peacefully received by Moctezuma II. Moctezuma deliberately let Cortés enter the Aztec capital, the island city of Tenochtitlan, hoping to get to know their weaknesses better and to crush them later.\n\nMoctezuma gave lavish gifts of gold to the Spaniards which, rather than placating them, excited their ambitions for plunder. In his letters to King Charles, Cortés claimed to have learned at this point that he was considered by the Aztecs to be either an emissary of the feathered serpent god Quetzalcoatl or Quetzalcoatl himself – a belief which has been contested by a few modern historians. But quickly Cortés learned that several Spaniards on the coast had been killed by Aztecs while supporting the Totonacs, and decided to take Moctezuma as a hostage in his own palace, indirectly ruling Tenochtitlán through him.\n\nMeanwhile, Velázquez sent another expedition, led by Pánfilo de Narváez, to oppose Cortés, arriving in Mexico in April 1520 with 1,100 men. Cortés left 200 men in Tenochtitlan and took the rest to confront Narváez. He overcame Narváez, despite his numerical inferiority, and convinced the rest of Narváez's men to join him. In Mexico, one of Cortés's lieutenants Pedro de Alvarado, committed the \"massacre in the Great Temple\", triggering a local rebellion.\n\nCortés speedily returned to Tenochtitlán. On July 1, 1520 Moctezuma was killed (the Spaniards claimed he was stoned to death by his own people; others claim he was murdered by the Spanish once they realized his inability to placate the locals). Faced with a hostile population, Cortés decided to flee for Tlaxcala. During the \"Noche Triste\" (June 30 – July 1, 1520), the Spaniards managed a narrow escape from Tenochtitlan across the Tlacopan causeway, while their rearguard was being massacred. Much of the treasure looted by Cortés was lost (as well as his artillery) during this panicked escape from Tenochtitlán.\n\nAfter a battle in Otumba, they managed to reach Tlaxcala, having lost 870 men. With the assistance of their allies, Cortés's men finally prevailed with reinforcements arriving from Cuba. Cortés began a policy of attrition towards Tenochtitlan, cutting off supplies and subduing the Aztecs' allied cities. The siege of Tenochtitlán ended with Spanish victory and the destruction of the city.\n\nIn January 1521, Cortés countered a conspiracy against him, headed by Antonio de Villafana, who was hanged for the offense. Finally, with the capture of Cuauhtémoc, the \"tlatoani\" (ruler) of Tenochtitlán, on August 13, 1521, the Aztec Empire was captured, and Cortés was able to claim it for Spain, thus renaming the city Mexico City. From 1521 to 1524, Cortés personally governed Mexico.\n\nThere are different beliefs about what happened to Hernán Cortés's ships during the early 1500s. Some say that he burned his ships, while others say he beached them. The idea that his ships were burned did not exist until 250 years later. There have been no found discoveries of Cortés burning his ships; however, evidence confirms their destruction. Bernal Díaz del Castillo, while attending an expedition with Cortés, claims that Cortés ran them ashore. However, he never mentions that Cortés burns them. Many historians also repeat the same version as Bernal Días. In a letter to King Charles, he states that his ships were incapable of sailing because of shipworm. However, after establishing the town of Vera Cruz five Aztec emissaries arrived, and Cortés became anxious to visit the Aztecs in Tenochtitlán. Therefore, he destroyed eight of his nine ships and sent one back to King Charles in Spain. The fear of his men returning to Cuba rather than embarking on the journey to the Aztec Empire made him decide to destroy his ships. He believed this would eliminate the cowards, and cause his men to fight harder. Therefore, his men no longer had an option but to accompany him on his journey. This decision brought about severe consequences.\n\nCortés provoked many hardships because of his decision to destroy the ships. He had angered the Aztecs through melting their gold and building a shrine. There was now a chance that the Aztec's could revolt. However, Cortés had no choice but to stay on guard against their wrath because he was trapped at Tenochititlán. Having to constantly be prepared to fight exhausted his men. The risk of an uprising could have been avoided had Cortés been able to escape the Aztec Empire. Furthermore, with the knowledge that Cortés was trying to gain authority under the king, Velàsquez was sending forces to arrest Cortés. To escape the fleet and depart from Mexico he would have to either steal their ships or wait to rebuild new ones. Both the lives of Cortés and his supporters were now at stake. The end result was unnecessary bloodshed during a battle at Cempoala. It was Spaniard against Spaniard, including Narvàez, the head of Veláquez's fleet, and Cortès along with their men. Cortés also suffered financial loss, because he had to repay Velàsquez for the ships he destroyed. \n\nThroughout his journey, Cortés had kept in contact with King Charles. He wanted to relieve himself from Valásquez's authority; therefore, Cortés bribed the King through sending him gold and other valuable items. However, Valásquez and his men convinced King Charles to relieve Cortés of his governorship in New Spain. Cortés had increased the land and wealth of his kingdom substantially; therefore King Charles still expressed his gratitude and made him captain-general. He also gave him the title of Marquis. This resulted in many of his actions being overlooked by the King of Spain because of the wealth he returned with him.\nMany historical sources have conveyed an impression that Cortés was unjustly treated by the Spanish Crown, and that he received nothing but ingratitude for his role in establishing New Spain. This picture is the one Cortés presents in his letters and in the later biography written by Francisco López de Gómara. However, there may be more to the picture than this. Cortés's own sense of accomplishment, entitlement, and vanity may have played a part in his deteriorating position with the king:\n\nKing Charles appointed Cortés as governor, captain general and chief justice of the newly conquered territory, dubbed \"New Spain of the Ocean Sea\". But also, much to the dismay of Cortés, four royal officials were appointed at the same time to assist him in his governing – in effect, submitting him to close observation and administration. Cortés initiated the construction of Mexico City, destroying Aztec temples and buildings and then rebuilding on the Aztec ruins what soon became the most important European city in the Americas.\n\nCortés managed the founding of new cities and appointed men to extend Spanish rule to all of New Spain, imposing the \"encomienda\" system in 1524. He reserved many encomiendas for himself and for his retinue, which they considered just rewards for their accomplishment in conquering central Mexico. However, later arrivals and members of factions antipathetic to Cortés complained of the favoritism that excluded them.\nIn 1523, the Crown (possibly influenced by Cortés's enemy, Bishop Fonseca), sent a military force under the command of Francisco de Garay to conquer and settle the northern part of Mexico, the region of Pánuco. This was another setback for Cortés who mentioned this in his fourth letter to the King in which he describes himself as the victim of a conspiracy by his archenemies Diego Velázquez de Cuéllar, Diego Columbus and Bishop Fonseca as well as Francisco Garay. The influence of Garay was effectively stopped by this appeal to the King who sent out a decree forbidding Garay to interfere in the politics of New Spain, causing him to give up without a fight.\n\nAlthough Cortés had flouted the authority of Diego Velázquez in sailing to the mainland and then leading an expedition of conquest, Cortés's spectacular success was rewarded by the crown with a coat of arms, a mark of high honor, following the conqueror's request. The document granting the coat of arms summarizes Cortés's accomplishments in the conquest of Mexico. The proclamation of the king says in part:\n\nWe, respecting the many labors, dangers, and adventures which you underwent as stated above, and so that there might remain a perpetual memorial of you and your services and that you and your descendants might be more fully honored ... it is our will that besides your coat of arms of your lineage, which you have, you may have and bear as your coat of arms, known and recognized, a shield ...\n\nThe grant specifies the iconography of the coat of arms, the central portion divided into quadrants. In the upper portion, there is a \"black eagle with two heads on a white field, which are the arms of the empire\". Below that is a \"golden lion on a red field, in memory of the fact that you, the said Hernando Cortés, by your industry and effort brought matters to the state described above\" (i.e., the conquest). The specificity of the other two quadrants is linked directly to Mexico, with one quadrant showing three crowns representing the three Aztec emperors of the conquest era, Moctezuma, Cuitlahuac, and Cuauhtemoc and the other showing the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan. Encircling the central shield are symbols of the seven city-states around the lake and their lords that Cortés defeated, with the lords \"to be shown as prisoners bound with a chain which shall be closed with a lock beneath the shield\".\n\nCortés's wife Catalina Súarez arrived in New Spain around summer 1522, along with her sister and brother. His marriage to Catalina was at this point extremely awkward, since she was a kinswoman of the governor of Cuba, Diego Velázquez, whose authority Cortés had thrown off and who was therefore now his enemy. Catalina lacked the noble title of \"doña,\" so at this point his marriage with her no longer raised his status. Their marriage had been childless. Since Cortés had sired children with a variety of indigenous women, including a son around 1522 by his cultural translator, Doña Marina, Cortés knew he was capable of fathering children. Cortés's only male heir at this point was illegitimate, but nonetheless named after Cortés's father, Martín Cortés. This son Martín Cortés was sometimes called \"El Mestizo\".\n\nCatalina Suárez died under mysterious circumstances the night of November 1–2, 1522. There were accusations at the time that Cortés had murdered his wife. There was an investigation into her death, interviewing a variety of household residents and others. The documentation of the investigation was published in the nineteenth century in Mexico and these archival documents were uncovered in the twentieth century. The death of Catalina Suárez produced a scandal and investigation, but Cortés was now free to marry someone of high status more appropriate to his wealth and power. In 1526, he built an imposing residence for himself, the Palace of Cortés in Cuernavaca, in a region close to the capital where he had extensive encomienda holdings. In 1529 he had been accorded the noble designation of \"don\", but more importantly was given the noble title of Marquis of the Valley of Oaxaca and married the Spanish noblewoman Doña Juana de Zúñiga. The marriage produced three children, including another son, who was also named Martín. As the first-born legitimate son, Don Martín Cortés y Zúñiga was now Cortés' heir and succeeded him as holder of the title and estate of the Marquisate of the Valley of Oaxaca. Cortés's legitimate daughters were Doña Maria, Doña Catalina, and Doña Juana.\n\nSince the conversion to Christianity of indigenous peoples was an essential and integral part of the extension of Spanish power, making formal provisions for that conversion once the military conquest was completed was an important task for Cortés. During the Age of Discovery, the Catholic Church had seen early attempts at conversion in the Caribbean islands by Spanish friars, particularly the mendicant orders. Cortés made a request to the Spanish monarch to send Franciscan and Dominican friars to Mexico to convert the vast indigenous populations to Christianity. In his fourth letter to the king, Cortés pleaded for friars rather than diocesan or secular priests because those clerics were in his view a serious danger to the Indians' conversion.\n\nIf these people [Indians] were now to see the affairs of the Church and the service of God in the hands of canons or other dignitaries, and saw them indulge in the vices and profanities now common in Spain, knowing that such men were the ministers of God, it would bring our Faith into much harm that I believe any further preaching would be of no avail.\n\nHe wished the mendicants to be the main evangelists. Mendicant friars did not usually have full priestly powers to perform all the sacraments needed for conversion of the Indians and growth of the neophytes in the Christian faith, so Cortés laid out a solution to this to the king.\n\nYour Majesty should likewise beseech His Holiness [the pope] to grant these powers to the two principal persons in the religious orders that are to come here, and that they should be his delegates, one from the Order of St. Francis and the other from the Order of St. Dominic. They should bring the most extensive powers Your Majesty is able to obtain, for, because these lands are so far from the Church of Rome, and we, the Christians who now reside here and shall do so in the future, are so far from the proper remedies of our consciences and, as we are human, so subject to sin, it is essential that His Holiness should be generous with us and grant to these persons most extensive powers, to be handed down to persons actually in residence here whether it be given to the general of each order or to his provincials.\n\nThe Franciscans arrived in May 1524, a symbolically powerful group of twelve known as the Twelve Apostles of Mexico, led by Fray Martín de Valencia. Franciscan Geronimo de Mendieta claimed that Cortés's most important deed was the way he met this first group of Franciscans. The conqueror himself was said to have met the friars as they approached the capital, kneeling at the feet of the friars who had walked from the coast. This story was told by Franciscans to demonstrate Cortés piety and humility and was a powerful message to all, including the Indians, that Cortés's earthly power was subordinate to the spiritual power of the friars. However, one of the first twelve Franciscans, Fray Toribio de Benavente Motolinia does not mention it in his history. Cortés and the Franciscans had a particularly strong alliance in Mexico, with Franciscans seeing him as \"the new Moses\" for conquering Mexico and opening it to Christian evangelization. In Motolinia's 1555 response to Dominican Bartolomé de Las Casas, he praises Cortés.\n\nAnd as to those who murmur against the Marqués del Valle [Cortés], God rest him, and who try to blacken and obscure his deeds, I believe that before God their deeds are not as acceptable as those of the Marqués. Although as a human he was a sinner, he had faith and works of a good Christian, and a great desire to employ his life and property in widening and augmenting the fair of Jesus Christ, and dying for the conversion of these gentiles ... Who has loved and defended the Indians of this new world like Cortés? ... Through this captain, God opened the door for us to preach his holy gospel and it was he who caused the Indians to revere the holy sacraments and respect the ministers of the church.\n\nIn Fray Bernardino de Sahagún's 1585 revision of the conquest narrative first codified as Book XII of the Florentine Codex, there are laudatory references to Cortés that do not appear in the earlier text from the indigenous perspective. Whereas Book XII of the Florentine Codex concludes with an account of Spaniards' search for gold, in Sahagún's 1585 revised account, he ends with praise of Cortés for requesting the Franciscans be sent to Mexico to convert the Indians.\n\nFrom 1524 to 1526, Cortés headed an expedition to Honduras where he defeated Cristóbal de Olid, who had claimed Honduras as his own under the influence of the Governor of Cuba Diego Velázquez. Fearing that Cuauhtémoc might head an insurrection in Mexico, he brought him with him to Honduras. In a controversial move, Cuauhtémoc was executed during the journey. Raging over Olid's treason, Cortés issued a decree to arrest Velázquez, whom he was sure was behind Olid's treason. This, however, only served to further estrange the Crown of Castile and the Council of Indies, both of which were already beginning to feel anxious about Cortés's rising power.\nCortés's fifth letter to King Charles attempts to justify his conduct, concludes with a bitter attack on \"various and powerful rivals and enemies\" who have \"obscured the eyes of your Majesty\". Charles, who was also Holy Roman Emperor, had little time for distant colonies (much of Charles's reign was taken up with wars with France, the German Protestants and the expanding Ottoman Empire), except insofar as they contributed to finance his wars. In 1521, year of the Conquest, Charles was attending to matters in his German domains and Bishop Adrian of Utrecht functioned as regent in Spain.\n\nVelázquez and Fonseca persuaded the regent to appoint a commissioner (a \"Juez de residencia\", Luis Ponce de León) with powers to investigate Cortés's conduct and even arrest him. Cortés was once quoted as saying that it was \"more difficult to contend against [his] own countrymen than against the Aztecs.\" Governor Diego Velázquez continued to be a thorn in his side, teaming up with Bishop Juan Rodríguez de Fonseca, chief of the Spanish colonial department, to undermine him in the Council of the Indies.\n\nA few days after Cortés's return from his expedition, Ponce de León suspended Cortés from his office of governor of New Spain. The Licentiate then fell ill and died shortly after his arrival, appointing Marcos de Aguilar as \"alcalde mayor\". The aged Aguilar also became sick and appointed Alonso de Estrada governor, who was confirmed in his functions by a royal decree in August 1527. Cortés, suspected of poisoning them, refrained from taking over the government.\n\nEstrada sent Diego de Figueroa to the south. De Figueroa raided graveyards and extorted contributions, meeting his end when the ship carrying these treasures sank. Albornoz persuaded Alonso de Estrada to release Salazar and Chirinos. When Cortés complained angrily after one of his adherents' hands was cut off, Estrada ordered him exiled. Cortés sailed for Spain in 1528 to appeal to King Charles.\n\nIn 1528, Cortés returned to Spain to appeal to the justice of his master, Charles V. Juan Altamirano and Alonso Valiente stayed in Mexico and acted as Cortés' representatives during his absence. Cortés presented himself with great splendor before Charles V's court. By this time Charles had returned and Cortés forthrightly responded to his enemy's charges. Denying he had held back on gold due the crown, he showed that he had contributed more than the quinto (one-fifth) required. Indeed, he had spent lavishly to build the new capital of Mexico City on the ruins of the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlán, leveled during the siege that brought down the Aztec empire.\n\nHe was received by Charles with every distinction, and decorated with the order of Santiago. In return for his efforts in expanding the still young Spanish Empire, Cortés was rewarded in 1529 by being accorded the noble title of \"don\" but more importantly named the \"Marqués del Valle de Oaxaca\" (Marquis of the Valley of Oaxaca and married the Spanish noblewoman Doña Juana Zúñiga, after the 1522 death of his much less distinguished first wife, Catalina Suárez. The noble title and senorial estate of the Marquesado was passed down to his descendants until 1811. The Oaxaca Valley was one of the wealthiest regions of New Spain, and Cortés had 23,000 vassals in 23 named encomiendas in perpetuity.\n\nAlthough confirmed in his land holdings and vassals, he was not reinstated as governor and was never again given any important office in the administration of New Spain. During his travel to Spain, his property was mismanaged by abusive colonial administrators. He sided with local natives in a lawsuit. The natives documented the abuses in the Huexotzinco Codex.\n\nThe entailed estate and title passed to his legitimate son Don Martín Cortés upon Cortés's death in 1547, who became the Second Marquis. Don Martín's association with the so-called Encomenderos' Conspiracy endangered the entailed holdings, but they were restored and remained the continuing reward for Hernán Cortés's family through the generations.\n\nCortés returned to Mexico in 1530 with new titles and honors, but with diminished power. Although Cortés still retained military authority and permission to continue his conquests, viceroy Don Antonio de Mendoza was appointed in 1535 to administer New Spain's civil affairs. This division of power led to continual dissension, and caused the failure of several enterprises in which Cortés was engaged.\n\nOn returning to Mexico, Cortés found the country in a state of anarchy. There was a strong suspicion in court circles of an intended rebellion by Cortés, and a charge was brought against him that cast a fatal blight upon his character and plans. He was accused of murdering his first wife. The proceedings of the investigation were kept secret.\n\nNo report, either exonerating or condemning Cortés, was published. Had the Government declared him innocent, it would have greatly increased his popularity. Had it declared him a criminal, a crisis would have been precipitated by the accused and his party. Silence was the only safe policy, but that silence is suggestive that grave danger was feared from his influence.\n\nAfter reasserting his position and reestablishing some sort of order, Cortés retired to his estates at Cuernavaca, about 30 miles (48 km) south of Mexico City. There he concentrated on the building of his palace and on Pacific exploration. Remaining in Mexico between 1530 and 1541, Cortés quarreled with Nuño Beltrán de Guzmán and disputed the right to explore the territory that is today California with Antonio de Mendoza, the first viceroy.\n\nCortes acquired several silver mines in Zumpango del Rio in 1534. By the early 1540s, he owned 20 silver mines in Sultepec, 12 in Taxco, and 3 in Zacualpan. Earlier, Cortes had claimed the silver in the Tamazula area.\n\nIn 1536, Cortés explored the northwestern part of Mexico and discovered the Baja California Peninsula. Cortés also spent time exploring the Pacific coast of Mexico. The Gulf of California was originally named the \"Sea of Cortes\" by its discoverer Francisco de Ulloa in 1539. This was the last major expedition by Cortés.\n\nAfter his exploration of Baja California, Cortés returned to Spain in 1541, hoping to confound his angry civilians, who had brought many lawsuits against him (for debts, abuse of power, etc.).\n\nOn his return he was utterly neglected, and could scarcely obtain an audience. On one occasion he forced his way through a crowd that surrounded the emperor's carriage, and mounted on the footstep. The emperor, astounded at such audacity, demanded of him who he was. \"I am a man,\" replied Cortés proudly, \"who has given you more provinces than your ancestors left you cities.\"\n\nThe emperor finally permitted Cortés to join him and his fleet commanded by Andrea Doria at the great expedition against Algiers in the Barbary Coast in 1541, which was then part of the Ottoman Empire and was used as a base by Hayreddin Barbarossa, a famous Turkish corsair and Admiral-in-Chief of the Ottoman Fleet. During this unfortunate campaign, which was his last, Cortés was almost drowned in a storm that hit his fleet while he was pursuing Barbarossa.\n\nHaving spent a great deal of his own money to finance expeditions, he was now heavily in debt. In February 1544 he made a claim on the royal treasury, but was ignored for the next three years. Disgusted, he decided to return to Mexico in 1547. When he reached Seville, he was stricken with dysentery. He died in Castilleja de la Cuesta, Seville province, on December 2, 1547, from a case of pleurisy at the age of 62.\n\nLike Columbus, he died a wealthy but embittered man. He left his many mestizo and white children well cared for in his will, along with every one of their mothers. He requested in his will that his remains eventually be buried in Mexico. Before he died he had the Pope remove the \"natural\" status of four of his children (legitimizing them in the eyes of the church), including Martin, the son he had with Doña Marina (also known as La Malinche), said to be his favourite. His daughter, Doña Catalina, however, died shortly after her father's death.\n\nAfter his death, his body was moved more than eight times for several reasons. On December 4, 1547 he was buried in the mausoleum of the Duke of Medina in the church of San Isidoro del Campo, Sevilla. Three years later (1550) due to the space being required by the duke, his body was moved to the altar of Santa Catarina in the same church. In his testament, Cortés asked for his body to be buried in the monastery he had ordered to be built in Coyoacan in México, ten years after his death, but the monastery was never built. So in 1566, his body was sent to New Spain and buried in the church of San Francisco de Texcoco, where his mother and one of his sisters were buried.\n\nIn 1629, \"Don Pedro Cortés fourth \"Marquez del Valle\", his last male descendant, died, so the viceroy decided to move the bones of Cortés along with those of his descendant to the Franciscan church in México. This was delayed for nine years, while his body stayed in the main room of the palace of the viceroy. Eventually it was moved to the Sagrario of Franciscan church, where it stayed for 87 years. In 1716, it was moved to another place in the same church. In 1794, his bones were moved to the \"Hospital de Jesus\" (founded by Cortés), where a statue by Tolsá and a mausoleum were made. There was a public ceremony and all the churches in the city rang their bells.\n\nIn 1823, after the independence of México, it seemed imminent that his body would be desecrated, so the mausoleum was removed, the statue and the coat of arms were sent to Palermo, Sicily, to be protected by the Duke of Terranova. The bones were hidden, and everyone thought that they had been sent out of México. In 1836, his bones were moved to another place in the same building.\n\nIt was not until November 24, 1946 that they were rediscovered, thanks to the discovery of a secret document by Lucas Alamán. His bones were put in the charge of the Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia (INAH). The remains were authenticated by INAH. They were then restored to the same place, this time with a bronze inscription and his coat of arms. When the bones were first rediscovered, the supporters of the Hispanic tradition in Mexico were excited, but one supporter of an indigenist vision of Mexico \"proposed that the remains be publicly burned in front of the statue of Cuauhtemoc, and the ashes flung into the air\". Following the discovery and authentication of Cortés's remains, there was a discovery of what were described as the bones of Cuauhtémoc, resulting in a \"battle of the bones\". In 1981, when a copy of the bust by Tolsa was put in the church, there was a failed attempt to destroy his bones.\n\nCortés is commemorated in the scientific name of a subspecies of Mexican lizard, \"Phrynosoma orbiculare cortezii\".\n\nThere are relatively few sources to the early life of Cortés; his fame arose from his participation in the conquest of Mexico and it was only after this that people became interested in reading and writing about him.\n\nProbably the best source is his letters to the king which he wrote during the campaign in Mexico, but they are written with the specific purpose of putting his efforts in a favourable light and so must be read critically. Another main source is the biography written by Cortés's private chaplain Lopez de Gómara, which was written in Spain several years after the conquest. Gómara never set foot in the Americas and knew only what Cortés had told him, and he had an affinity for knightly romantic stories which he incorporated richly in the biography. The third major source is written as a reaction to what its author calls \"the lies of Gomara\", the eyewitness account written by the Conquistador Bernal Díaz del Castillo does not paint Cortés as a romantic hero but rather tries to emphasize that Cortés's men should also be remembered as important participants in the undertakings in Mexico.\n\nIn the years following the conquest more critical accounts of the Spanish arrival in Mexico were written. The Dominican friar Bartolomé de Las Casas wrote his \"A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies\" which raises strong accusations of brutality and heinous violence towards the Indians; accusations against both the conquistadors in general and Cortés in particular. The accounts of the conquest given in the Florentine Codex by the Franciscan Bernardino de Sahagún and his native informants are also less than flattering towards Cortés. The scarcity of these sources has led to a sharp division in the description of Cortés's personality and a tendency to describe him as either a vicious and ruthless person or a noble and honorable cavalier.\n\nIn México there are few representations of Cortés. However, many landmarks still bear his name, from the castle Palacio de Cortés in the city of Cuernavaca to some street names throughout the republic.\n\nThe pass between the volcanoes Iztaccíhuatl and Popocatépetl where Cortés took his soldiers on their march to Mexico City. It is known as the Paso de Cortés.\n\nThe muralist Diego Rivera painted several representation of him but the most famous, depicts him as a powerful and ominous figure along with Malinche in a mural in the National Palace in Mexico City.\nIn 1981, President Lopez Portillo tried to bring Cortés to public recognition. First, he made public a copy of the bust of Cortés made by Manuel Tolsá in the Hospital de Jesús Nazareno with an official ceremony, but soon a nationalist group tried to destroy it, so it had to be taken out of the public. Today the copy of the bust is in the \"Hospital de Jesús Nazareno\" while the original is in Naples, Italy, in the Villa Pignatelli.\n\nLater, another monument, known as \"Monumento al Mestizaje\" by Julián Martínez y M. Maldonado (1982) was commissioned by Mexican president José López Portillo to be put in the \"Zócalo\" (Main square) of Coyoacan, near the place of his country house, but it had to be removed to a little known park, the Jardín Xicoténcatl, Barrio de San Diego Churubusco, to quell protests. The statue depicts Cortés, Malinche and their son Martín.\n\nThere is another statue by Sebastián Aparicio, in Cuernavaca, was in a hotel \"El casino de la selva\". Cortés is barely recognizable, so it sparked little interest. The hotel was closed to make a commercial center, and the statue was put out of public display by Costco the builder of the commercial center.\n\nHernán Cortés is a character in the opera \"La Conquista\" (2005) by Italian composer Lorenzo Ferrero, which depicts the major episodes of the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire in 1521.\n\nCortés' personal account of the conquest of Mexico is narrated in his five letters addressed to Charles V. These five letters, the \"cartas de relación\", are Cortés' only surviving writings. See \"Letters and Dispatches of Cortés\", translated by George Folsom (New York, 1843); Prescott's \"Conquest of Mexico\" (Boston, 1843); and Sir Arthur Helps's \"Life of Hernando Cortes\" (London, 1871).\n\nHis first letter was considered lost, and the one from the municipality of Veracruz has to take its place. It was published for the first time in volume IV of \"Documentos para la Historia de España\", and subsequently reprinted. The first \"carta de relación\" is available online at the University of Wisconsin.\n\nThe \"Segunda Carta de Relacion\", bearing the date of October 30, 1520, appeared in print at Seville in 1522. The third letter, dated May 15, 1522, appeared at Seville in 1523. The fourth, October 20, 1524, was printed at Toledo in 1525. The fifth, on the Honduras expedition, is contained in volume IV of the \"Documentos para la Historia de España\". The important letter mentioned in the text has been published under the heading of \"Carta inédita de Cortés\" by Ycazbalceta. A great number of minor documents, either by Cortés or others, for or against him, are dispersed through the voluminous collection above cited and through the \"Colección de Documentos de Indias\", as well as in the \"Documentos para la Historia de México\" of Ycazbalceta. There are a number of reprints and translations of Cortés's writings into various languages.\n\nNatural children of Don Hernán Cortés\n\nHe married twice: firstly in Cuba to Catalina Suárez Marcaida, who died at Coyoacán in 1522 without issue, and secondly in 1529 to \"doña\" Juana Ramírez de Arellano de Zúñiga, daughter of \"don\" Carlos Ramírez de Arellano, 2nd Count of Aguilar and wife the Countess \"doña\" Juana de Zúñiga, and had:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35466237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35466237", "title": "High-low skirt", "text": "High-low skirt\n\nHigh-low skirts, also known as asymmetrical, waterfall, or mullet skirts, are skirts with a hem that is higher in the front, or side, than in the back.\n\nThe high-low skirt has a full circle hem. However, the length varies from short in front to long in back. The style originates in Victorian era dresses and formal gowns, when the hem style became known as the \"fishtail\". During the 19th century, it became a trend in the mid-1870s, reappearing in the early 1880s, and later in women's formal gowns and evening dresses throughout the 20th century, particularly in the late 1920s and early 1930s, where lowering hemlines were a mask that would start off 1930s silhouettes.\n\nThe recent high-low skirt hem trend began in late 2011. The high-low skirt became a trend in Europe and America in late 2011, eventually becoming a worldwide fashion in Spring and Summer 2012. It has received fashion press coverage in India, such as in the fashion labels Namrata Joshipura and Myoho, being praised for its \"playfulness\". It received widespread visibility outside of fashion circles after The Voice contestant Devyn DeLoera wore a peach-coloured high-low skirt for her audition in summer 2012.\n\nThe skirt style has been given a variety of names by designers and the press, including asymmetrical and waterfall, with the most derisive term being \"mullet skirt\", used by Britain's Mirror newspaper in criticising a version worn by singer Cher Lloyd in April 2012, a mocking reference to the now unfashionable mullet hairstyle that was a brief men's fad in the 1980s. However, some high-low dress wearers have embraced the term, referring to their own dress as a mullet dress.\n\nA related trend in 2011 and 2012 is the asymmetric peplum hem on shirts, sweaters and jackets for women. The peplum, a broad ruffled hem that is fitted at the waist and flares outward, has been a recurring fashion trend in Europe for centuries, and was last popular in Europe and North America during the 1940s and 1950s. An asymmetric version has been brought to women's fashion in 2012, but not all consumers find it flattering, with one American stating, \"I do not believe it hides large hips and behinds, and the new asymmetrical peplums should only be worn by the tall and thin\".\n\n"}
{"id": "15263549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15263549", "title": "Ian Lawton", "text": "Ian Lawton\n\nIan Lawton is a British researcher and author specialising in ancient history and spiritual philosophy. He is the architect of \"Rational Spirituality\".\n\nAfter obtaining a degree in Economics at University College, London, Lawton qualified as a chartered accountant before working in a variety of IT-related sales and consultancy organisations. During this time he was primarily known for his passion for racing motorcycles and then cars. Then in his mid-thirties he forsook the commercial world to become a full-time writer and researcher.\n\nHis first book, \"Giza: The Truth\" (Virgin, 1999), was co-authored with Chris Ogilvie-Herald. After years of increasingly hysterical speculation about the age and purpose of the Great Pyramid of Khufu in the run up to the millennium, this book was hailed as \"an excellent example of a more sober approach\". It has gone on to sell more than 20,000 copies worldwide, and has developed a reputation as a prime source text for those interested in gaining an in-depth understanding of the monuments at Giza.\n\nAs a by-product of this research Lawton also set up a discussion page on his website on which he published debates between himself and various alternative researchers – such as Robert Bauval on his Orion Correlation Theory, and Robert Schoch on the age of the Great Sphinx of Giza.\n\nLawton’s second book, \"Genesis Unveiled\" (Virgin, 2003), has been described as containing \"remarkable new insights into the spirituality of the pre-flood human race\", and has sold over 10,000 copies worldwide. In general it cited ancient texts and traditions from around the globe to support the idea of an antediluvian race of high spirituality whose descent into decadence and materialism was halted by a global catastrophe some 11,500 years ago. However Lawton rejected the popular revisionist idea that this race had mastered high levels of technology. And in particular he put forward two new postulations:\n\nAs a by-product of this research Lawton also published a number of papers about the ancient Mesopotamian texts, as well as being a vocal critic of the \"ancient astronaut\" interpretation put forward by alternative writer Zecharia Sitchin.\n\nLawton introduced the idea of \"Rational Spirituality\" in \"The Book of the Soul\" (RS Press, 2004). The \"regression therapists\" and were quoted on the cover calling it \"masterly and scholarly\" and \"a book that intellectuals need not be ashamed of having on their shelves\".\n\nDescribing Rational Spirituality as an approach that for the first time relies exclusively on \"evidence not faith\", Lawton has also written about this worldview in a variety of journals. He uses three main areas of evidence for its foundations:\nThe latter two areas support the idea of reincarnation, and in all three Lawton concentrates on cases involving what he refers to as \"obscure and verifiable evidence\".\n\nHis other main contribution in \"The Book of the Soul\" was to bring together all the research into regression into the time \"between lives\", or \"interlife\" as he called it. This was conducted by pioneers like Joel Whitton, Helen Wambach, Peter Ramster, Edith Fiore and Michael Newton. Lawton demonstrated the high level of consistency in the results obtained by these pioneers, and argued that this could not be explained by them working together, or by their subjects themselves having prior knowledge of work that was then very little known.\n\nIn 2007 Lawton produced a highly simplified version of his spiritual research in \"The Little Book of the Soul\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11373248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11373248", "title": "Ichimura Uzaemon XI", "text": "Ichimura Uzaemon XI\n\n(1791-11 July 1820) was a \"zamoto\" (theatre owner-manager) of the Ichimura-za kabuki theatre in Edo, Japan. Like many \"zamoto\", he was raised in a kabuki family and trained to be an actor, but rarely actually appeared on stage.\n\nGiven the name Ichimura Manjirō I upon his adoption by Ichimura Uzaemon X, he became the eleventh in the line of Ichimura Uzaemon upon the death of his adopted father. Uzaemon used \"Kakitsu\" as his \"haimyō\" (poetry pen-name).\n\nHis brother Bandō Kamezō I and son Ichimura Takenojō V were active actors on the stage, as were many of his grandsons, great-grandsons, and further descendants to whom he also passed on the position of \"zamoto\". The current actors Nakamura Kantarō II, Nakamura Shichinosuke II, and Bandō Kamesaburō V are his great-great-great-great-grandsons.\n\nHe was born in Edo in 1791, the son of Fukuchi Mohei IV, a publisher and secondary manager of the Ichimura-za. At the age of two, he was adopted by Ichimura Uzaemon X in the same year that the theatre went bankrupt and closed, passing its license to the Kiri-za. The Ichimura-za reopened in 1798, and Uzaemon X died the following year. Manjirō, as he was then known, took on the name Uzaemon XI in 1800, officially becoming \"zamoto\" at the age of nine, though the actual administrative matters were handled by Fukuchi Zenbei, the owner of a \"shibai jaya\" (a teahouse within the theatre).\n\nUzaemon was only head of the Ichimura-za for fifteen years. During this short time, the theatre saw many productions, and hosted actors as famous as Matsumoto Kōshirō V and Iwai Hanshirō V. However, the theatre was also destroyed by fire three times over this period. Uzaemon struggled with the debts incurred by his predecessors, and the costs of repeatedly rebuilding the theatre; the Ichimura-za declared bankruptcy in 1815, transferring its license to the Kiri-za once again. The license was then passed to the Miyako-za when the Kiri-za went bankrupt in 1817, and again to the Tamagawa-za when the Miyako-za went bankrupt in turn the following year.\n\nUzaemon died in Edo in 1820, at the age of 29.\n\n"}
{"id": "4187880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4187880", "title": "Interlocus contest evolution", "text": "Interlocus contest evolution\n\nInterlocus contest evolution (ICE) is a process of intergenomic conflict by which different loci within a single genome antagonistically coevolve. ICE supposes that the Red Queen process, which is characterized by a never-ending antagonistic evolutionary arms race, does not only apply to species but also to genes within the genome of a species.\n\nBecause sexual recombination allows different gene loci to evolve semi-autonomously, genes have the potential to coevolve antagonistically. ICE occurs when \"an allelic substitution at one locus selects for a new allele at the interacting locus, and vice versa.\" As a result, ICE can lead to a chain reaction of perpetual gene substitution at antagonistically interacting loci, and no stable equilibrium can be achieved. The rate of evolution thus increases at that locus.\n\nICE is thought to be the dominant mode of evolution for genes controlling social behavior. The ICE process can explain many biological phenomena, including intersexual conflict, parent offspring conflict, and interference competition.\n\nA fundamental conflict between the sexes lies in differences in investment: males generally invest predominantly in fertilization while females invest predominantly in offspring. This conflict manifests itself in many traits associated with sexual reproduction. Genes expressed in only one sex are selectively neutral in the other sex; male- and female-linked genes can therefore be acted upon separated by selection and will evolve semi-autonomously. Thus, one sex of a species may evolve to better itself rather than better the species as a whole, sometimes with negative results for the opposite sex: loci will antagonistically coevolve to enhance male reproductive success at females’ expense on the one hand, and to enhance female resistance to male coercion on the other. This is an example of intralocus sexual conflict, and is unlikely to be resolved fully throughout the genome. However, in some cases this conflict may be resolved by the restriction of the gene’s expression to only the sex that it benefits, resulting in sexual dimorphism.\n\nThe ICE theory can explain the differentiation of the human X- and Y-chromosomes. Semi-autonomous evolution may have promoted genes beneficial to females in the X-chromosome even when detrimental to males, and genes beneficial to males in the Y-chromosome, even when detrimental to females. As the distribution of the X-chromosome is three times as large as the Y-chromosome (the X-chromosome occurs in 3/4 of offspring genes, while the Y-chromosome occurs in only 1/4), the Y-chromosome has a reduced opportunity for rapid evolution. Thus the Y-chromosome has \"shed\" its genes to leave only the essential ones (such as the SRY gene), which gives rise to the differences in the X- and Y-chromosomes.\n\nA father, mother and offspring may differ in the optimal resource allocation to the offspring. This co-evolutionary conflict can be considered in the context of ICE. Selection will favor genes in the male to maximize female investment in the current offspring, no matter the consequences to the female's reproduction later in life, while selection will favor genes in the female that increase her overall lifetime fitness. Genes expressed in the offspring will be selected to produce an intermediary level of resource allocation between the male-benefit and female-benefit loci. This three-way conflict again occurs when parents feed their offspring, as the optimum feeding rate and optimum point in time to discontinue feeding differ between father, mother and offspring.\n\nICE can also explain the theory of interference competition, which is most likely to be associated with opposing sets of genes that determine the outcome of competition between individuals. Different sets of genes may code for signal or receiver phenotypes, such as in the context of threat displays: when a competing male can win more contests by intimidation, rather than by fighting, selection will favor the accumulation of deceitful genes that may not be honest indicators of the male’s fighting capability.\n\nFor example, primitive male elephant seals may have used the lowest frequencies in the threat call of a rival as an indication of body size. The elephant seal's enormous nose may have evolved as a resonating device to amplify low frequencies, illustrating selection that favors the production of low-frequency threat vocalizations. However, this counter-selects for receptor systems that provide an increased threshold required for intimidation, which in turn selects for deeper threat vocalizations. The rapid divergence of threat displays among closely related species provides further evidence in support of the co-evolutionary arms race within the genome of a single species, driven by the ICE process.\n"}
{"id": "36814723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36814723", "title": "Ivan Karayotov", "text": "Ivan Karayotov\n\nIvan Dimitrov Karayotov () is a Bulgarian archaeologist and historian who studied ancient and medieval archaeology and history.\n\nSince 1972 he has worked at the Regional Museum of Burgas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "85232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85232", "title": "Lagos", "text": "Lagos\n\nLagos initially emerged as a port city that originated on a collection of islands, which are contained in the present day Local Government Areas (LGAs) of Lagos Island, Eti-Osa, Amuwo-Odofin and Apapa; the islands are separated by creeks, fringing the southwest mouth of Lagos Lagoon, while protected from the Atlantic Ocean by barrier islands and long sand spits such as Bar Beach, which stretch up to east and west of the mouth. Due to rapid urbanization, the city expanded to the west of the lagoon to include areas in the present day Lagos Mainland, Ajeromi-Ifelodun and Surulere. This led to the classification of Lagos into two main areas: the Island, which was the initial city of Lagos, before it expanded into the area known as the Mainland. This city area was governed directly by the Federal Government through the \"Lagos City Council\", until the creation of Lagos State in 1967, which led to the splitting of Lagos city into the present day seven Local Government Areas (LGAs), and an addition of other towns (which now make up 13 LGAs) from the then Western Region, to form the state.\n\nLagos, the capital of Nigeria since its amalgamation in 1914, went on to become the capital of Lagos State after its creation. However, the state capital was later moved to Ikeja in 1976, and the federal capital moved to Abuja in 1991. Even though Lagos is still widely referred to as a city, the present day Lagos, also known as \"Metropolitan Lagos\", and officially as \"Lagos Metropolitan Area\" is an urban agglomeration or conurbation, consisting of 20 LGAs,32 LCDAs including Ikeja, the state capital of Lagos State. This conurbation makes up 37% of Lagos State's total land area, but houses about 85% of the state's total population.\n\nThe exact population of Metropolitan Lagos is disputed. In the 2006 federal census data, the conurbation had a population of about 8 million people. However, the figure was disputed by the Lagos State Government, which later released its own population data, putting the population of Lagos Metropolitan Area at approximately 16 million. As at 2015, unofficial figures put the population of \"Greater Metropolitan Lagos\", which includes Lagos and its surrounding metro area, extending as far as into Ogun State, at approximately 21 million.\n\nLagos was originally inhabited by the Awori subgroup of the Yoruba people in the 15th century. Under the leadership of the Oloye Olofin, the Awori moved to an island now called Iddo and then to the larger Lagos Island. In the 16th century, the Awori settlement was conquered by the Benin Empire and the island became a Benin war-camp called \"Eko\" under Oba Orhogbua, the Oba of Benin at the time. Eko is still the native name for Lagos.\n\n\"Lagos\", which means \"lakes\", was a name given to the settlement by the Portuguese. The present-day Lagos state has a high percentage of Awori clan, who migrated to the area from Isheri along the Ogun river. Throughout history, it was home to a number of warring ethnic groups who had settled in the area. Following its early settlement by the Awori nobility, and its conquest by the Bini warlords of Benin, the state first came to the attention of the Portuguese in the 15th century.\n\nPortuguese explorer Rui de Sequeira visited the area in 1472, naming the area around the city \"Lago de Curamo\". Another explanation is that Lagos was named for Lagos, Portugal—a maritime town that, at the time, was the main centre of Portuguese expeditions down the African coast.\n\nIn Britain's early 19th century fight against the transatlantic slave trade, its West Africa Squadron or Preventative Squadron as it was also known, continued to pursue Portuguese, American, French and Cuban slave ships and to impose anti-slavery treaties with West African coastal chiefs with so much doggedness that they created a strong presence along the West African coast from Sierra Leone all the way to the Niger Delta (today's Nigeria) and as far south as Congo. In 1849, Britain appointed John Beecroft Consul of the Bights of Benin and Biafra, a position he held (along with his governorship of Fernando Po) until his death in 1854. John Duncan was appointed Vice Consul and was located at Wydah. At the time of Beecroft's appointment, the Kingdom of Lagos (under Oba Kosoko) was in the western part of the Consulate of the Bights of Benin and Biafra and was a key slave trading port. In 1851 and with pressure from liberated slaves who now wielded political and business influence, Britain intervened in Lagos in what is now known as the Bombardment of Lagos or Capture of Lagos resulting in the installation of Oba Akitoye and the ouster of Oba Kosoko. Oba Akitoye then signed the Treaty between Great Britain and Lagos abolishing slavery. The signing of the 1852 treaty ushered in the Consular Period in Lagos' history wherein Britain provided military protection to Lagos.\n\nFollowing threats from Kosoko and the French who were positioned at Wydah, a decision was made by Lord Palmerston (British Prime Minister) who noted in 1861, \"the expediency of losing no time in assuming the formal Protectorate of Lagos\". William McCoskry, the Acting Consul in Lagos with Commander Bedingfield convened a meeting with Oba Dosunmu on 30 July 1861 aboard HMS Prometheus where Britain's intent was explained and a response to the terms were required by August 1861. Dosunmu resisted the terms of the treaty but under the threat to unleash violence on Lagos by Commander Bedingfield, Dosunmu relented and signed the Lagos Treaty of Cession on 6 August 1861.\nLagos was declared a colony on 5 March 1862. The remainder of modern-day Nigeria was seized in 1887, and when the Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria was established in 1914, Lagos became its capital, continuing as such after the country's independence from Britain in 1960. Along with migrants from all over Nigeria and other West African nations were the returnee ex-slaves known as Creoles, who came from Freetown, Sierra Leone, Brazil and the West Indies to Lagos. The Creoles contributed to Lagos' modernisation and their knowledge of Portuguese architecture can still be seen from the architecture on Lagos Island. Since the 19th century, Lagos gradually transformed to a melting pot of Africans and Europeans. Railway links and telephone cables connecting Lagos to London had been established by 1886. Electric street lighting was introduced in the city in 1898. Lagos experienced rapid growth throughout the 1960s and 1970s as a result of Nigeria's economic boom.\n\nBefore the creation of Lagos State on 27 May 1967, Lagos, which was the country's capital had been administered directly by the Federal Government as a Federal Territory through the \"Federal Ministry of Lagos Affairs\", while the Lagos City Council (LCC) governed the city. Lagos, along with the towns from the then Western region (Ikeja, Agege, Mushin, Ikorodu, Epe and Badagry), were eventually captured to create Lagos State. Lagos city was split into the present day seven Local Government Areas (LGAs), while the other towns now make up 13 LGAs in the state. Lagos played the dual role of being the State and Federal Capital until 1976 when the state capital was moved to Ikeja. Lagos was adversely affected during Nigeria's military rule. Also, on 12 December 1991, the seat of the Federal Government was also formally relocated to Abuja. However, Lagos still remains the financial centre of the country, and also grew to become the most populous conurbation in the country.\n\nLagos is loosely classified into two main geographical areas—the \"Island\" and the \"Mainland\".\n\nThe Island is a loose geographical term that is used to define the area of Lagos that is separated from the \"mainland\" by the main channel draining the lagoon into the Atlantic Ocean, which forms Lagos Harbour. The Island is mainly a collection of islands that are separated from each other by creeks of varying sizes and are connected together by bridges. The smaller sections of some creeks have been dredged and built over. This part of Lagos is the area where most business activities and entertainment events in Lagos takes place. It also houses most of the upscale residential areas in Lagos. The Local Government areas that are considered to be in the Island include Lagos Island, Amuwo-Odofin, Apapa (sometimes also regarded as being on the mainland), and Eti-Osa. The major upscale island neighbourhoods within these LGAs include Ikoyi and Victoria Island. Three major bridges join the island to the mainland. They are the Carter Bridge, which starts from Iddo; the Eko Bridge (formerly called the Second Mainland Bridge); and the Third Mainland Bridge, which passes through densely populated mainland suburbs to the Lagos Lagoon.\n\nLagos Island contains a central business district. This district is characterised by high-rise buildings. The island also contains many of the city's largest wholesale marketplaces (such as the popular Idumota and Balogun Markets). It also has the National Museum of Nigeria, the Central Mosque, the Glover Memorial Hall, Christ's Church Cathedral (CMS) and the Oba's Palace (Iga Idunganran). Another major part of Lagos Island is Marina. It borders around the idumota and Balogun markets and houses major Banking institutions. Though formerly in a derelict condition, Lagos Island's Tinubu Square is a site of historical importance; it was here that the Amalgamation Ceremony that unified the North and South protectorate to form Nigeria took place in 1914.\n\nIkoyi is situated on the eastern half of Lagos Island and joined to it by a land fill. Ikoyi is also connected to Victoria Island by Falomo bridge, which carries a main road over Five Cowrie creek. Ikoyi housed the headquarters of the federal government of Nigeria and other buildings owned by the government, including the old federal secretariat complex. The complex today is on reestablishment.\n\nIn Ikoyi there are military and police barracks, a top-security prison and a federal high court of Nigeria. Ikoyi also has a number of hotels, night clubs, a recreational park and one of Africa's largest golf courses. Originally a middle class neighbourhood, in recent years, it has become a fashionable residential enclave for the upper middle class to the upper class. There are also commercial activities in Ikoyi, which is spotted in increasing number of offices, banks, and shopping complexes. The commercial section is concentrated in the South-West.\n\nVictoria Island with its annexe is situated to the south of Lagos Island. It has expensive real estate properties and for that reason, many new luxury condos and apartments are blooming up everywhere.\nAlong with Ikoyi, Victoria Island occupies a major area in Lagos that boasts of several sizeable shopping districts. On its sea shore along the Atlantic front, there is environmentally reconstructed Bar Beach.\n\nAcross the main channel of the lagoon from Lagos Island, there is a smaller settlement called Iddo. Iddo is also a railroad terminus and it is now situated in the Lagos Mainland local government area after it was connected to the mainland like a peninsula.\n\nA huge population of Lagosians also live on the Lagos mainland, and most industries are located there. The mainland is known for its music and nightlife, which used to be located in areas around Yaba and Surulere. However, in recent years more night clubs have sprung up on the Island, making the Island (particularly Victoria Island and Lekki Phase 1) the main nightlife attractions. Mainland LGAs include Surulere, Ajeromi-Ifelodun and Lagos Mainland. Metropolitan Lagos suburban LGAs include: Agege, Apapa, Mushin, Oshodi-Isolo and Ikeja (site of Murtala Muhammed International Airport and the capital of Lagos State).\n\nMajor Areas on the mainland include Ebute Metta, Yaba and Ejigbo. Some rivers, like Badagry Creek, flow parallel to the coast for some distance before exiting through the sand bars to the sea.\n\nLagos has the tallest skyline in Nigeria. The architectural styles in Lagos are diverse and ranges from tropical, vernacular to colonial European and ultramodern buildings or a mixture. Brazilian style architecture brought by the creoles is evident in buildings such as Water House and Shitta Bey Mosque. Skyscrapers and most high rise buildings are centered on the islands while the mainland has some high rise buildings. In recent years, the Lagos State government has renovated existing parks and green areas, with a long term goal of expansion. Many good quality buildings are interspersed across the city.\n\nLagos experiences a tropical savanna climate (\"Aw\") according to the Köppen climate classification, as there's a significant precipitation difference between the wet season and the dry season. The wet season starts in April and ends in October, while the dry season starts in November and ends in March. The wettest month is June with precipitation total , while the driest month is January with precipitation total .\n\nLocated near the equator, Lagos has only a slight seasonal temperature variation, with high temperatures ranging . Lagos shares the seasons of the Southern Hemisphere, with summer highs in March, daily range , and warm winters in August, ranging as the daily average.\n\nIn terms of administration, Lagos is not a single municipality and therefore has no overall city administration. The geographical city limits of Metropolitan Lagos comprises 16 of the 20 Local Government Areas, which together comprise Lagos State. The latter entity provides overall government for the metropolitan region. The Municipality of Lagos, which covered Lagos Island, Ikoyi, and Victoria Island as well as some mainland territory, was managed by the Lagos City Council (LCC), but it was disbanded in 1976 and divided into several Local Government Areas (most notably Lagos Island LGA, Lagos Mainland LGA and Eti-Osa LGA).\n\nThe mainland beyond the Municipality of Lagos, on the other hand, comprised several separate towns and settlements such as Mushin, Ikeja and Agege. In the wake of the 1970s Nigerian oil boom, Lagos experienced a population explosion, untamed economic growth, and unmitigated rural migration. This caused the outlying towns and settlements to develop rapidly, thus forming the present day \"Lagos Metropolitan Area\", also known as \"Metropolitan Lagos\". The history of Lagos is still evidenced in the layout of the LGAs that display the unique identities of the cultures that created them.\n\nBy 2006, the metro area around Lagos had extended beyond Lagos State's boundaries and attained a megacity status. This much larger area is referred to as \"Greater Metropolitan Lagos\" or \"Lagos Megacity Region\", which is a continuous built up land area of additional , comprising sprawls in LGAs situated next to Lagos' eastern and western city limits in Lagos State, and beyond northern limits, spilling into the LGAs in adjoining Ogun State. Ogun State LGAs within Greater Metropolitan Lagos majorly include: Obafemi Owode, Sagamu, Ifo, Ado-Odo/Ota and part of Ewekoro.\n\nToday, the word \"Lagos\" most often refers to the urban area, called \"Metropolitan Lagos\" in Nigeria, which includes both the islands of the former municipality of Lagos and the mainland suburbs. Lagos State government is responsible for some of the utilities including roads and transportation, power, water, health and education. Metropolitan Lagos extends over 16 of the 20 LGAs of Lagos State, and contains about 85% of the population of Lagos State, and includes semi-rural areas. Lagos City has a considerable number of high-rise buildings that dominate its skyline. Most of the tall buildings are located in the downtown Central Business District.\n\nLagos was the former capital city of Nigeria but it has since been replaced by Abuja. Abuja officially gained its status as the capital of Nigeria on 12 December 1991, although the decision to move the federal capital had been made in now Act no. 6 of 1976. Lagos is also home to the High Court of the Lagos State Judiciary, housed in an old colonial building on Lagos Island.\n\nAlthough the 2006 National Population Census of Nigeria credited the metropolitan area with a population figure of 7,937,932, the figure is at variance with some projections by the UN and other population agencies and groups worldwide. The population figure of Lagos State given by the Lagos State Government is 17,553,924. It was based on claimed conducted enumeration for social planning by the Lagos State Government \"parallel census\" and it believes that since the inhabitants of the metropolitan area of Lagos constitute 88% of the Lagos State population, the population of metropolitan Lagos is about 15.5 million.\n\nA rejoinder to Lagos State Government views concluded that Lagos State concealed the fact that the population projection, for Lagos Urban Agglomeration by the UN agencies had been revised downwards substantially as early as 2003. It failed to interpret the two most important and fairly representative and reliable secondary data sets already in public domain, the National Identity Card Scheme and the 2003 Voters Registration figures from INEC. The figures for 2007 Voters Registration by INEC were an act subsequent to the release of the provisional census results and comprehensively corroborate, vindicate and validate the population figures in no uncertain terms.\nAccording to the official results of the 2006 census, there were 8,048,430 inhabitants in Metropolitan Lagos. This figure was lower than anticipated, and has created controversy in Nigeria. Lagos Island, the central Local Government Area and historic centre of Metropolitan Lagos, had a population of 212,700 at the 2006 Census.\n\nAuthorities of Lagos State have attacked the results of the 2006 census, accusing the Nigerian National Population Commission of having undercounted the population of the state. This accusation is denied by the National Population Commission. A study found that research carried out by Africapolis (the African subsidiary of e-Geopolis backed by the Agence française de développement), in addition to the cross-referencing of official figures with more scientific independent research concluded that the 2006 census figures for Lagos State of about 9 million were valid and that the state's own assessments are inflated.\n\nLagos is, by most estimates, one of the fastest-growing cities in the world. Lagos is currently experiencing a population increase of about 275,000 persons per annum. In 1999 the United Nations predicted that the city's metropolitan area, which had only about 290,000 inhabitants in 1950, would exceed 20 million by 2010 and thus become one of the ten most populated cities in the world.\n\nThere is a huge spectrum of wealth distribution among the people that reside in Lagos. It ranges from the very wealthy to the very poor. Lagos has attracted many young people and families seeking a better life from all other parts of Nigeria and beyond and this has also contributed to its cosmopolitan status.\n\nThe city of Lagos is a major economic focal point in Nigeria, generating around 10% of the country's GDP. Most commercial and financial business is carried out in the central business district situated on the island. This is also where most of the country's commercial banks, financial institutions and major corporations are headquartered. Lagos is also the major Information Communications and Telecommunications (ICT) hub of West Africa and potentially, the biggest ICT market in the continent. Lagos is developing a 24-hour economy and has also been ranked as one of the most expensive cities in the world. In some parts of Lagos, residents have one of the highest standards of living in Nigeria and in Africa. At the same time, a sizable proportion of the residents live in slums without access to piped water and sanitation.\n\nThe Port of Lagos is Nigeria's leading port and one of the largest and busiest in Africa. It is administered by the Nigerian Ports Authority and it is split into three main sections: Lagos port, in the main channel next to Lagos Island, Apapa Port (site of the container terminal) and Tin Can Port, both located in Badagry Creek, which flows into Lagos Harbour from the west. The port features a railhead. The port has seen growing amounts of crude oil exported, with export figures rising between 1997 and 2000. Oil and petroleum products provide 14% of GDP and 90% of foreign exchange earnings in Nigeria as a whole.\n\nLagos is famous throughout Africa for its music scene. Lagos has a vibrant nightlife and has given birth to a variety of styles such as Sakara music, Nigerian hip hop, highlife, juju, fuji and Afrobeat.\n\nLagos is the centre of the Nigerian movie industry, often referred to as 'Nollywood'. Idumota market on Lagos Island is the primary distribution centre. Many films are shot in the Festac area of Lagos.\n\nIganmu is home to the primary centre for the performing arts and artistes in Nigeria: the National Arts Theatre.\n\nJames Brown performed in Lagos in 1970.\n\nPaul McCartney recorded his fifth post-Beatles album, \"Band on the Run\", in an EMI studio in Lagos in August and September 1973.\n\nOther foreign musicians who have also performed in the city include Sean Paul, Snoop Dogg, 50 Cent, Akon, Jarule, Ashanti, Usher, Shaggy, R Kelly, especially during the Star Mega Jam; Shakira, John Legend, Boyz II Men T-Pain, Brian McKnight, JayZ, Mary J. Blige, Beyoncé, Brandy, Ciara, Keri Hilson and Lauryn Hill, among others.\n\nFootball is Lagos' most popular sport. Prominent Lagos football clubs include Bridge Boys F.C. MFM F.C. and First Bank: both play in Nigeria National League, the second tier of Nigerian football.\nThe Nigeria national football team, also known as the Super Eagles, used to play almost all of their home games in Lagos at the National Stadium in Surulere; however, games are now mostly played at the larger and newer Abuja National Stadium in Abuja, which is the default home of the Super Eagles. Lagos also hosted the 2nd All-African games in 1973.\n\nCycling is increasingly becoming a sport to be reckoned with. About three years ago, Cycology Riding Club started a club in Lagos and soon after, other clubs mushroomed in cities like Port Harcourt and Abuja. Some of these clubs aim to promote cycling as a lifestyle and create awareness through social initiatives in their communities. Considering the traffic congestion in the big cities, it is a welcome sight, environmentally, to see Nigerians ply the streets on two wheels.\n\nLagos, subsequent to the re-modernization project achieved by the previous administration of Governor Raji Babatunde Fashola, is gradually becoming a major tourist destination, being one of the largest cities in Africa and in the world. Lagos is currently taking steps to become a global city. The 2009 Eyo carnival (a yearly festival originated from Iperu Remo, Ogun State), which took place on 25 April, was a step toward world city status. Currently, Lagos is primarily known as a business-oriented and a fast-paced community.\n\nLagos has become an important location for African and \"black\" cultural identity. Lots of festivals are held in Lagos; festivals vary in offerings each year and may be held in different months. Some of the festivals are Festac Food Fair held in Festac Town Annually, Eyo Festival, Lagos Black Heritage Carnival, Lagos Carnival, Eko International Film Festival, Lagos Seafood Festac Festival, LAGOS PHOTO Festival and the Lagos Jazz Series, which is a unique franchise for high-quality live music in all genres with a focus on jazz. Established in 2010, the popular event takes place over a 3–5 day period at selected high quality outdoor venues. The music is as varied as the audience itself and features a diverse mix of musical genres from rhythm and blues to soul, Afrobeat, hip hop, bebop, and traditional jazz. The festivals provide entertainment of dance and song to add excitement to travelers during a stay in Lagos.\n\nLagos has a number of sandy beaches by the Atlantic Ocean, including Elegushi Beach and Alpha Beach. Lagos also has a number of private beach resorts including Inagbe Grand Beach Resort and several others in the outskirts.\n\nLagos has a variety of hotels ranging from three star to five star hotels, with a mixture of local hotels such as Eko Hotels and Suites, Federal Palace Hotel and franchises of multinational chains such as Intercontinental Hotel, Sheraton and Four Points by Hilton. Other places of interest include the Tafawa Balewa Square, Festac town, The Nike Art Gallery, Freedom Park, Lagos and the Cathedral Church of Christ, Lagos.\n\nSome of the famous cuisines in Lagos include indigenous delicacies such as eba and egusil; amala and ewedu; jollof; ofada rice; plantains (locally called dodo); beans; suya (spicy shish kebab or spiced roasted beef), which is consumed in local clubs and bars with a bottle of cold beer; and eba, made from cassava and eaten with soups prepared with vegetables and mixture of spices and herbs. Other cuisines range from local ones like \"Iyan\" (pounded yam) made from yam flour, amala; asharo, which is usually eaten with various kind of vegetables; and Egusi (melon soup) to European, Middle-Eastern, and Asian cuisine.\n\nThe Lagos State Government operates state schools. The education system is the 6-3-3-4 system, which is practised throughout the country (as well as by many other members of the Economic Community of West African States). The levels are Primary, Junior Secondary School (JSS), Senior Secondary School (SSS) and university. All children are offered basic education, with special focus now on the first nine years. Many of the schools in Nigeria are federally funded and usually are boarding schools. A few examples are Federal government college Odogbolu (FGCOdogbolu), Federal government girls college Sagamu (FGGCSagamu) and Federal government college Kano (FGCKano). The state of Lagos has its own federally funded high schools namely Federal government college Ijanikin also known as FGC Lagos, Kings College and Queens College.\n\nLagos is home to various postsecondary schools, universities and other vocational institutions that are either operated by the government or private entities.\n\n\n\n\nLagos has many hospitals and medical facilities, some of which have accomplished feats in Nigeria's medical history. For example, the oldest Nigerian hospital is located in the city as well as West Africa's first air-operated emergency medical service, which commenced in the city. The Lagos healthcare system is generally divided into public and private sectors that provide medical services at the primary, secondary, and tertiary levels. Although the private hospitals are usually more expensive, it does not necessarily translate to better health-care delivery.\n\nLagos has one of the largest and most extensive road networks in West Africa. It also has suburban trains and some ferry services. Highways are usually congested in peak hours, due in part to the geography of the city, as well as to its explosive population growth. Lagos is also linked by many highways and bridges. A new rail system that is supposed to span the length of the Badagry expressway is currently under construction.\n\nThe Lagos–Ibadan Expressway and the Lagos–Abeokuta Expressway are the major controlled-access highways in the north of the city and serve as inter-state highways to Oyo State and Ogun State respectively. To the west the congested Lagos–Badagry Expressway serves outlying towns such as \"Festival Town\", which was the location for the 1977 Festival of Black Arts and Culture 77.\n\nLagos's importance as a commercial centre and port and its strategic location have led to it being the end-point of three Trans-African Highway routes using Nigeria's national roads. The Trans–West African Coastal Highway leaves the city as the Badagry Expressway to Benin and beyond as far as Dakar and Nouakchott; the Trans-Sahara Highway to Algiers, which is close to completion, leaves the city as the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway.\n\nLagos State has a bus rapid transit (BRT) system; the first phase was completed in February 2008. It is expected to operate along eight routes using specially designated bus rapid transit lanes running through the city, with the aim of expanding to other routes in the future.\nThe first phase of the Lagos BRT runs through Ikorodu Road and Funsho Williams Avenue up to CMS. After weeks of test runs, operations started on 17 March 2008, six months earlier than planned. Also, the signature color of Lagos state 14-seater bus (known as Danfo) is yellow with a touch of black.\n\nIt has been estimated that the system will transport about 10,000 passengers in each direction per hour during peak travel times. At these times traffic congestion, called \"Go Slow\", by Lagosians, can be extreme. The LAMATA bus rapid transit corridor covers a distance of about . The system is run by two operators, NURTW Cooperative (Nigerian Union of Road Transport Workers) and Lagbus, a Lagos State Government owned Asset Management Company that contributes about 180 high-capacity buses for the implementation of the first phase Mile 12 to CMS BRT Lite system.\n\nAn extensive urban rail system, Lagos Rail Mass Transit, running through the Lagos metropolis is currently under construction. Several intercity and commuter trains serve Lagos through the Lagos Terminus railway station.\n\nLagos currently the world's largest city proper in term of population, which does not have grade-separated rapid transit system.\n\nLagos State Ferry Services Corporation runs a few regular routes, for example between Lagos Island and the mainland, served by modern ferries and wharves. Private boats run irregular passenger services on the lagoon and on some creeks.\n\nLagos is served by Murtala Muhammed International Airport, one of the largest and busiest airports in Africa. The MMIA is Nigeria’s premier international air gateway. The airport’s history dates back to colonial times, around the time of the Second World War. The current international airport terminal was built and commissioned over 40 years ago, in 1978.The terminal opened officially March,15,1979. The airport had been known simply as the Lagos International Airport. It was however, re-named for the late Nigerian Head of State, General Murtala Muhammed, who died in 1976.\n\nThe airport terminal has been renovated several times since the 1970s but its most radical make over began in 2013, following the launch of the Federal government’s multi-billion naira Remodelling/ Rehabilitation Programme for its airports nationwide. Under the re-modelling work there, by late in 2014, the MMlA lounge area had been expanded to four times its previous size and new passenger handling conveyor systems installed which can handle over 1,000 passengers per hour.\n\n\nLagos is twinned with:\n\n\n149. ^http://www.faan.gov.ng/mmia/\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2903518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2903518", "title": "Lajia", "text": "Lajia\n\nLajia () is an archaeological site located in Minhe County, Haidong Prefecture in Northwest China's Qinghai province. Lajia is associated with the Qijia culture and was discovered by archaeologists in 2000. The site covers an area of around 200,000 square meters.\n\nIn 2002, the oldest intact noodles yet discovered were located at Lajia, estimated at over 4,000 years old. The noodles were made from foxtail and broom millet.\n\nA study of the site's faunal remains revealed that sheep were the most common domesticated species in the area, followed by pigs and cattle. The remains suggest that sheep may have been exploited for meat at the site, rather than for wool or milk \n\nArchaeologists think the site was abandoned after being devastated by an earthquake and subsequent flood.\n\nIn 2000, Bronze Age buildings were found destroyed by a mudslide that had been triggered by an earthquake in the north-east part of the site. 14 people had apparently taken refuge inside two of these buildings. The skeletons of the victims were preserved \"in situ\" and were displayed as found in the Lajia Museum in 2015.\n\nRed soils brought by the Yellow River flooding were also found in the site's north-east.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38729381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38729381", "title": "List of lost silent films (1915–1919)", "text": "List of lost silent films (1915–1919)\n\nThis is a list of lost silent films that were released from 1915 to 1919.\n"}
{"id": "328003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=328003", "title": "MacAlpin's treason", "text": "MacAlpin's treason\n\nMacAlpin's treason is a medieval legend which explains the replacement of the Pictish language by Gaelic in the 9th and 10th centuries.\n\nThe legend tells of the murder of the nobles of Pictavia (situated in modern-day Scotland). Kenneth MacAlpin's mother was probably descended from the royal house of Fortriu and his great-grand uncle, Alpín, had reigned as kings of the Picts until deposed by Óengus in 728. It is thus that Kenneth was one of several nobles with a claim to the crown of the Picts and Scots.\n\nThe sources of Kenneth MacAlpin becoming king of the Picts are few and suspect. Two such sources, the \"Prophecy of Berchán\" and \"De instructione principis\", note that in 841 Mac Alpin attacked the remnants of the Pictish army and defeated them. Mac Alpin then invited the Pictish king, Drest, and the remaining Pictish nobles to Scone to settle the issue of Dál Riata's freedom or MacAlpin's claim to the Dál Riatan crown. Faced with a recently victorious MacAlpin in the south and a devastated army in the north, Drest, as well as all claimants to the Pictish throne from the seven royal houses attended this meeting at Scone. Legend has it that the Gaels came secretly armed to Scone, where Drest and the Pictish nobles were killed.\n\nIt is Giraldus Cambrensis in \"De Instructione Principis\" who recounts how a great banquet was held at Scone, and the Pictish king and his nobles were plied with drinks and became quite drunk. Once the Picts were drunk, the Gaels allegedly pulled bolts from the benches, trapping the Picts in concealed earthen hollows under the benches; additionally, the traps were set with sharp blades, such that the falling Picts impaled themselves.\n\n\"The Prophecy of Berchán\" tells that Mac Alpin plunged them in the pitted earth, sown with deadly blades. Trapped and unable to defend themselves, the surviving Picts were then murdered from above and their bodies, clothes and ornaments plundered.\n\nFollowing this event, Kenneth MacAlpin became king of both realms, harking back to his maternal ancestry to establish his claim to the throne of Pictavia and inheriting Dál Riada from his father. He merged the two into one kingdom named Alba.\n\n"}
{"id": "11049684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11049684", "title": "Miloš Mladenović", "text": "Miloš Mladenović\n\nMiloš Mladenović (1903–1984) was professor emeritus of History at McGill University in Montreal, and an expert on Cold War politics of the day.\n\nMiloš Mladenović was born in Valjevo, Serbia, in 1903. He studied at the University of Belgrade's Law School between 1922 and 1926, and graduated with a Bachelor of Commerce and Law. At that time he seemed to be destined to a long, diplomatic career, however, World War II intervened. After World War II, Miloš Mladenović settled temporarily in Western Europe. Unwilling to return to a Yugoslavia under a Communist regime, Mladenović chose to settle in Canada permanently. A polyglot and with degrees (in law and economics) from the University of Belgrade in Serbia and a PhD from the Sorbonne in Paris, respectively, Mladenović joined the Department of History at McGill University as a specialist on Eastern Europe as soon as he landed as an immigrant in Canada in June 1950. He immediately proceeded to expand the department's offerings in Russian and Byzantine history. Six months later, he was also joined by his wife (Gertrud) and stepson (Peter Schaal, now a prominent Toronto surgeon).\n\nWitness to the Slav tragedy of World War II, German occupation of Czechoslovakia, Poland and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the Nazi attempt at invading Russia, Mladenović aroused not only a desire but a need for better understanding of Slav people and their countries among the McGill staff and students he taught. He is credited at revitalizing the Department of History at McGill with his lectures and life's experiences. Mladenović was not only a scholar but a diplomat in the service of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia before the war. He was a staunch anti-Communist.\n\nAs an émigré professor, Mladenović brought with him a more intimate understanding of cultures that Canadian scholars had viewed from the perspective of the outsider, who can observe external forms more readily than their inner spirit. Not only Slavic and Russian Studies, but also many other neglected fields of knowledge benefited. Under Mladenović the history of warfare and of science became important branches of professional historical scholarship. At McGill, Mladenović had the oldest program in military history in Canada outside of the service colleges, having set up the beginnings of its program with two other McGill professors – C. C. Bayley and Robert Vogel (1929–1994)-- in 1957.\n\nJ. Larry Black, PhD (McGill), a former student who went on to great distinction himself, wrote the following obituary in English in a Serbian publication (\"Spomenik: Srpske Pravoslavne Crkve Svete Trojice: 1954-Montreal-1984\", p. 26):\n\n\"\"Mladenović's first years were taken up in organizing his courses on East European history which previously had been treated at McGill as a minor dimension of general European history. He endeavored to organize a department and show students that Eastern Europe was specific political and economic, as well as social and cultural, part of the world and that it was formed under the influence of both Roman and Byzantine inroads. The Mongols, Turks and Western Europeans also left traces of their civilizations in Eastern Europe. In addition to examination of general historical developments, Mladenović introduced the study of war and society in which he attempted to demonstrate that war is a result of a complex interplay of reciprocal influences.\n\n\"As a result of his efforts, over 30 students obtained Master degrees and 15 earned doctorates. Of these, eleven now serve Canadian universities as professors of East European history. Several have been departmental chairmen, and one is currently the director of the Institute for Soviet Studies at Carleton University. Most of them are active in the Canadian Association of Slavists, of which Mladenović is an honourary life member.\"\n\nMcGill University's biographer Stanley Brice Frost wrote: \"Miloš Mladenović, who came to this country in 1950 as a refugee, originally from Yugoslavia, and who almost singlehandedly introduced the serious study of Russian and East European history, not only to McGill but also, through his former students, to many other Canadian universities.\"\n\nProfessors Veljko Lalich and Dr. T. Domaradski, Mladenović's counterparts at the University of Montreal, often invited him to offer courses at their Department of Russian and Slavic Studies. Mladenović was a sought-after speaker outside of the academic community, too. The Canadian Forces, in collaboration with McGill University, invited Mladenović to conduct seminars on Soviet Law for the Faculty of Law, and arrange conferences at various units stationed in the Province of Quebec.\n\nIn his spare time, Mladenović prepared and published a series on Eastern Europe, as well as early articles on the Serbs in Canada for the Canadian Encyclopedia, book reviews for The Montreal Star, and a study of East European Law in Canada for Bulletin zur Ostforschung. He also edited, together with one of his pupils, The New Review, Canada's only scholarly journal expressly dedicated to East European history.\n\nIn 1969, his students presented Professor Mladenović with a Festschrift to commemorate his 65th birthday. Entitled \"Eastern Europe: Historical Essays,\" the book contained essays from nineteen current and former students. \"At one time in the 1970s, seven departments of history, two of political science, and one of Byzantine studies were chaired by his former students,\" wrote J. L. Black about Mladenović in \"The Canadian Encyclopedia\" (volume 2, page 1146).\n\nMiloš Mladenović was the beloved teacher and mentor to hundreds of students during his two decade plus tenure at McGill.\n\nMladenović authored several books and published numerous studies and articles in various magazines and journals of learned societies. His books and manuscripts were published mainly in French, Serbian, German and English and include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3271645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3271645", "title": "Nathan Brown (missionary)", "text": "Nathan Brown (missionary)\n\nNathan Brown (; 22 June 1807 – 1 January 1886) was an American Baptist missionary to India and Japan, Bible translator, and abolitionist. He is noted for his works on Assamese language, grammar and script. In around 1843, based in Sibsagar, he began translating the New Testament into Assamese or \"Amar Trankôrta Yisu Khristôr Nôtun Niyôm\" () which he published in 1848. In 1854, he published another book titled meaning roughly \"Jesus Christ and his Holy Messages\". He also translated prayers alongside his other missionary colleagues. His work \"Grammatical Notices of the Assamese Language\" was published by the American Baptist Mission Press in 1848. In 1846, with his colleague Oliver Cutter, he published \"Orunodoi\" (), the first Assamese periodical. He also published works of contemporary and historical Assamese scholars, to name a few \"Ôxôm Burônzi\" (\"History of Assam\", ) by Kashinath Phukan in 1844, \"Kitabôt Mônzôri\" (\"Mathematics\", in Assamese verse, ) in two parts, \"Lilawôti\" and \"Pôdgônit\" by Bakul Kayastha in 1845, and \"Sutiya Burônzi\" () in 1850, as well as others. In Assam, Brown is considered to be a pioneer and champion of the native language and literature.\n\nBorn in New Ipswich, New Hampshire, he attended Williams College, where he graduated first in his class. He and his wife, whom he married in 1830, went on to serve as missionaries in Burma. Brown's original intention had been to translate the Bible into Burmese, but he soon found himself pulled into a mission along with Oliver Cutter and Miles Bronson in the Indian region of Assam.\n\nIn 1848, Brown published an Assamese grammar, followed by an Assamese translation of the New Testament. He found that the Assamese Bible published by William Carey from the Serampore Mission Press (1832), in circulation at the time, consisted of Bengali and Sanskrit loan words, so it was idiomatically inadequate. Therefore he undertook (together with Carey’s old colleague Pandit Atmaram Sharma) the project of translating the New Testament into pure and simple Assamese. From 1836 to 1873, Company and British Raj policy subsumed Assamese under the heading of Bengali. The language regained recognition in part due to Assamese publications edited by Brown, including an Assamese-English dictionary and an Assamese grammar book, as well as his association with Hemchandra Barua, who was taught at Brown's school.\n\nin 1850 Brown returned to America to join his brother William in the growing abolitionist movement. In his satirical work \"Magnus Maharba and the Dragon\", an account of the battle against slavery, Rev. Brown used the pen name \"Kristofer Kadmus\". This shows that he truly identified with the character in Greek Mythology that his life so paralleled. Cadmus was best known as a traveller and vector of culture and ideas. His journey in search of his lost sister Europa led to importation of the idea of alphabet into Greece. In myth, Cadmus killed a dragon that prevented mortals from reaching a sacred spring. He planted the dragon's teeth on the spot; they sprouted into armies that fought nearly to death, with the survivors building the city of learning.\n\nThe \"haystack missionaries\", including Nathan Brown, associated the account of the introduction of the Greek alphabet with the New Testament creation, and the idea of creating local alphabets for every language was an important first step towards the goal of a Bible translation for every language. The printing presses and schools of these missions also became a vehicle for empowerment of local language and culture.\n\nFollowing his return from Assam to New England in 1848, Nathan Brown joined the abolitionist movement, delivering anti-slavery sermons in Boston. This struggle eventually resulted in the American Civil War. Many proponents of the anti-slavery movement had to deal with the bloody results of their efforts in a personal struggle of conscience. Rev. Brown dealt with the question of violent means in \"Magnus Maharba\".\n\nAfter the war, in 1868, Brown turned his attention to the newly accessible Japan, at first by interacting with the students that Japan was sending to the Bridgeport Academy and Princeton University for education in Western world culture and technology. This cultural exchange was a two way process. Rev. Brown published another satire showing America as seen through the eyes of one of these Japanese students, which was sharply critical of New England's materialism, in place of spirituality. One exchange student, for whom Nathan Brown wrote a letter of reference to the Bridgeport Academy, eventually became an admiral in the Imperial Japanese Navy.\n\nBrown's first wife died in 1871, and in 1872, having married again, he returned to overseas missionary work, this time traveling to Japan to join Jonathan Scobie, the first Baptist missionary to that country. The two collaborated to construct the first Japanese Baptist church (First Baptist Church of Yokohama) in 1873. Brown also worked with Japanese scholar T. Kawakatsu to produce a Japanese-language Bible based on what were then the oldest known Greek manuscripts; he would go on to print thousands of Hiragana copies for distribution print versions (with the goal of access to the Bible by less educated persons who might not understand Kanji). Brown died in Yokohama in 1886.\n\n"}
{"id": "4710263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4710263", "title": "Odo of Deuil", "text": "Odo of Deuil\n\nEudes of Deuil or Odo, Odon(1110 – April 18, 1162) was a French historian and participant of the Second Crusade (1147–1149).\n\nBorn at Deuil to a modest family, he became a monk and was a confidant of Suger, abbot of Saint-Denis. He took part in the Second Crusade in 1147, and served as the chaplain of Louis VII on the expedition.\n\nHis narrative of the Crusade is entitled \"De profectione Ludovici VII in Orientem\" (On Louis VII's journey to the East), which relates the progress of the crusade from France to Antioch. It was written so that Suger could compose a history of Louis' life. Eudes explains the failure of the crusade in terms of human action rather than as the will of God, in contrast to the reasoning of Otto of Freising. His aims were to glorify Louis, but also to provide a guide for future crusaders so that the mistakes of the Second Crusade would not be repeated.\n\nEudes blamed the Byzantine Empire under Manuel Comnenus for the downfall of the crusade. Eudes' prejudice against Byzantium led Runciman to describe Eudes as \"hysterically anti-Greek.\" However, Phillips has recently argued that Eudes' view of Byzantium was possibly rooted in ideological differences which minor skirmishes between the crusaders and Greeks had brought to the fore. His prejudice should also be set against the experience of Conrad III of Germany, who wrote that Manuel treated him as a \"brother.\"\n\nEudes' account ends with the remnant of the crusade arriving at Antioch, and so does not include a description of the Siege of Damascus.\n\nHe returned to France and became abbot of Saint-Denis in 1151.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52725444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52725444", "title": "Olga Ulianova", "text": "Olga Ulianova\n\nOlga Viktorovna Ulianova Ольга Викторовна Ульянова (23 February 1963 – 29 December 2016) was a Russian historian, born in the Soviet Union, naturalized Chilean. She specialized in contemporary history, Cold War, Chilean communism and the international non-state networks.\n\nOlga Viktorovna Ulianova was born 23 February 1963.\n\nShe received a Master of Arts in History in the Lomonosov Moscow State University in 1985, and then a doctorate with mention in universal history in the same university, in 1988. Already at that time, she was devoted to studying Chilean social and political history. She worked as translator of some communist Chilean leaders exiled. She married an exiled Chilean and, in 1992, moved with him to live in Chile. She has a daughter with Chilean and Russian nationality.\n\nUlianova worked mainly at the University of Santiago and in the \"Instituto de Estudios Avanzados\", a research institute in which she was director between 2010-2015. She was director of the doctorate program in American Studies of the University of Santiago, and a guest teacher at several universities. Olga Ulianova was a member of the Historian Committee of Fondecyt and evaluator of Conicyt and a member of the editorial board of several scientific journals, both in Chile and abroad.\n\nUlianova specialized in the retrieval of documentary information from archives of Komintern and in general of the former USSR. She researched about Chilean communists, in particular those who developed contacts with the Comintern. She wrote several texts together with other specialists in Chilean communism, such as Rolando Álvarez Vallejos and Alfredo Riquelme.\n\nUlianova was an international affairs commentator on television, radio and newspapers. In 2016, she received the medal \"Universidad de Santiago de Chile\" from the rector of the university, Juan Manuel Zolezzi, in recognition of her academic career.\n\nUlianova died of cancer on 29 December 2016 at a clinic in Santiago de Chile. She was 53 years old at the time of her death.\n\n"}
{"id": "14141897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14141897", "title": "Operation Conservation", "text": "Operation Conservation\n\nOperation Conservation was a British Army attempt to ambush a large Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) unit along the Dorsey Enclosure, between Cullyhanna and Silverbridge, in south County Armagh. The action took place on 6 May 1990. The operation was uncovered and thwarted by the IRA South Armagh Brigade.\n\nThe British Army, in the hope of luring a large IRA active service unit into attacking an entrenched Light Infantry unit, deployed its troops around the route between Cullyhanna and Silverbridge. A heavy machine gun ambush had taken place on another Light Infantry patrol on 28 April near the same area. More than 180 rounds were fired and a soldier was wounded in the leg.\n\nThe main position was to be surrounded and watched by 16 concealed sections belonging to the 2nd Battalion Scots Guards. The goal was to surprise and kill any IRA unit attempting to penetrate the area.\n\nThe troops were inserted into the zone on the first hours of 3 May. The IRA South Armagh Brigade watched these movements and was able to spot several of the hidden observation posts (OPs). Eventually, they decided to attack one of the British positions at Slatequarry, near Cullyhanna, which was in the more vulnerable situation. According to author David McKittrick, the British soldiers were lured to an open field after seeing smoke coming from the chimney of a derelict building.\n\nOn the very first hours of 6 May, the exposed British position began to receive heavy fire from an IRA unit emplaced on the slope of a hill nearby. The OP was attacked with two 7.62 mm GPMGs and a Heckler & Koch G3 rifle; the latter used to cover the machine gun team's retreat towards Slatequarry road, where a vehicle was waiting to pick them up. A bomb was planted between the OP and the road, to prevent any attempt to give chase. The IRA members fired their machine guns from a rocky terrain next to an abandoned building. The shooting lasted some 90 seconds, and a total of 316 rounds were expended by the two sides. The section's leader, Lance Sergeant Graham Stewart was hit and died of wounds the following day.\n\nThe sudden counter-ambush disrupted the British operation, and the officer in charge aborted it. He later stated that:In military terms, it was one of the IRA's finest attacks in South Armagh. They picked out the COP team in the most exposed position. With hindsight, it was the one weak link in the operation and it says something for the IRA's tactical and field skills that they identified that fact before we did.\n\nAfter the incident, another British senior officer concluded that a skillful gun team was operating at that time near Cullyhanna. On 20 September, another soldier was hit and wounded in that area during a heavy machine gun attack on a 1st Cheshire Regiment patrol at Drumalt. The IRA unit responsible for the ambushes was nicknamed the \"Cullyhanna Gun Club\" by the British army. Author Toby Harnden suggests that the IRA show of force proved again that they could dispute the ground to the troops everywhere in South Armagh due to its better knowledge of the terrain and use of rugged soil to conceal positions.\n\nLance Sergeant Stewart was 24 at the time of his death. He was buried with full military honours in his home town of Perth, Scotland on 11 May 1990.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12328396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12328396", "title": "Paraphernalia", "text": "Paraphernalia\n\nParaphernalia most commonly refers to a group of apparatus, equipment, or furnishing used for a particular activity. For example, an avid sports fan may cover his walls with football and/or basketball paraphernalia.\n\nIn legal language, \"paraphernalia\" is a term of art from older family law. The word \"paraphernalia\" is plural, meaning \"things beyond the dowry\". Paraphernalia were the separate property of a married woman, such as clothing and jewellery \"appropriate to her station\", but excluding the assets that may have been included in her dowry. The term originated in Roman law, but ultimately comes from Greek παράφερνα (\"parapherna\"), \"beyond (\"para\") the dowry (\"phernē\")\".\n\nThese sorts of property were considered the separate property of a married woman under coverture. A husband could not sell, appropriate, or convey good title to his wife's assets considered paraphernalia without her separate consent. They did not become a part of her husband's estate upon his death, and could be conveyed by a married woman's will.\n\nChanges in family law and inheritance law (mirroring trends in the wider society, such as the several Married Woman's Property Acts of the various common law jurisdiction), have generally rendered the legal concept of paraphernalia obsolete.\n\nThe legal concept of paraphernalia in this sense is an important plot point in Anthony Trollope's novel \"The Eustace Diamonds\". In the novel, it was a matter of some consequence whether the title jewelry was an heirloom, property of the heirs, or a woman's paraphernalia, freely alienable by her.\n\n"}
{"id": "23520879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23520879", "title": "Rodica Bretin", "text": "Rodica Bretin\n\nRodica Bretin (born 6 November 1958) is a Romanian writer specialized in history and fantastic literature.\n\nRodica Bretin was born in Brasov and since 1982 is living in Bucharest. A renowned writer in Romania and Eastern Europe, Rodica Bretin has been a member of the \"Romanian Writers Union\" (USR) since 1991 and Fantasia Art Association (Cornwall, Great Britain) since 1996. She is also a scientific researcher, specialised in history, having participated at historical and archaeological campaigns in: Transylvania, Romania (1996), Languedoc, France (1998) and Milano, Italy (2002).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55476054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55476054", "title": "Romuald Hube", "text": "Romuald Hube\n\nRomuald Hube (1803–September 1890) was a Polish law scholar.\n\nRomuald Hube studied in Warsaw, then listened to the lectures of Savigny, Hegel, Steffens, Boeckh, and Ritters in Berlin. In 1825 he became a lecturer of general legal history at the University of Warsaw. In 1829 he became a full professor of canonical and criminal law at the university, while his brother Joseph Hube at the same time assumed the chair of the department of legal history.\n\nAs a result of the November Uprising in 1831, he left the university and in 1832 became a prosecutor at the criminal courts of the voivodeships Masovien and Kalisch. The following year, he was called to Saint Petersburg as a member of the Legislative Commission for Poland, in which he worked on the published criminal code and the Criminal Code for Poland.\n\nHe was then appointed to the Council of State, and in 1843 he was appointed a permanent member of the magistrate, and afterwards became a member of the most important legislatures of Russia. In 1846 he accompanied Count Bludov to Rome, and in 1850 he was appointed Privy Councilor and Senator of the Imperial Empire. In 1857 he became an honorary member of the Petersburg Academy.\n\nHube published the \"Fragmenta Ulpiani\" (Warsaw 1826), the \"Institutiones Gaji \"(Warsaw 1827), the \"Lex Salica\" (1867), and wrote a famous treatise: \"De furtis doctrina ex jure romano historice et dogmatice explicata\".\n\nAmong his Polish writings are \"Ogólne zasady nauki prawa karnego\" (\"Principles of Criminal Law\", Warsaw 1830) and \"Prawo polskie w wieku XIII.\" (\"Polish law in the 13th century\", Warsaw 1875).\n\nHe was also the chief founder of the legal journal \"Themis polska\", and gave his brother Joseph \"A Historical account of the Slavs' inheritance\" (Zupanski, Posen, 1836).\n\n"}
{"id": "24873453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24873453", "title": "Season", "text": "Season\n\nA season is a division of the year marked by changes in weather, ecology, and amount of daylight. On Earth, seasons result from Earth's orbit around the Sun and Earth's axial tilt relative to the ecliptic plane. In temperate and polar regions, the seasons are marked by changes in the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth's surface, variations of which may cause animals to undergo hibernation or to migrate, and plants to be dormant.\n\nDuring May, June, and July, the Northern Hemisphere is exposed to more direct sunlight because the hemisphere faces the Sun. The same is true of the Southern Hemisphere in November, December, and January. It is Earth's axial tilt that causes the Sun to be higher in the sky during the summer months, which increases the solar flux. However, due to seasonal lag, June, July, and August are the warmest months in the Northern Hemisphere while December, January, and February are the warmest months in the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nIn temperate and subpolar regions, four calendar-based seasons are generally recognized: \"spring\", \"summer\", \"autumn\" or \"fall\", and \"winter\". Ecologists often use a six-season model for temperate climate regions: \"prevernal\", \"vernal\", \"estival\", \"serotinal\", \"autumnal\", and \"hibernal\". Many tropical regions have two seasons: the \"rainy\", \"wet\", or \"monsoon season\" and the \"dry season\". Some have a third \"cool\", \"mild\", or \"harmattan season\". Seasons often held special significance for agrarian societies, whose lives revolved around planting and harvest times, and the change of seasons was often attended by ritual.\n\nIn some parts of the world, some other \"seasons\" capture the timing of important ecological events such as \"hurricane season\", \"tornado season\", and \"wildfire season\". The most historically important of these are the three seasons—\"flood\", \"growth\", and \"low water\"—which were previously defined by the former annual flooding of the Nile in Egypt.\n\nThe seasons result from the Earth's axis of rotation being tilted with respect to its orbital plane by an angle of approximately 23.4 degrees. (This tilt is also known as \"obliquity of the ecliptic\".)\n\nRegardless of the time of year, the northern and southern hemispheres always experience opposite seasons. This is because during summer or winter, one part of the planet is more directly exposed to the rays of the Sun (see \"Fig. 1\") than the other, and this exposure alternates as the Earth revolves in its orbit. For approximately half of the year (from around March 20 to around September 22), the Northern Hemisphere tips toward the Sun, with the maximum amount occurring on about June 21. For the other half of the year, the same happens, but in the Southern Hemisphere instead of the Northern, with the maximum around December 21. The two instants when the Sun is directly overhead at the Equator are the equinoxes. Also at that moment, both the North Pole and the South Pole of the Earth are just on the terminator, and hence day and night are equally divided between the two hemispheres. Around the March equinox, the Northern Hemisphere will be experiencing spring as the hours of daylight increase, and the Southern Hemisphere is experiencing autumn as daylight hours shorten.\n\nThe effect of axial tilt is observable as the change in day length and altitude of the Sun at solar noon (the Sun's culmination) during the year. The low angle of Sun during the winter months means that incoming rays of solar radiation are spread over a larger area of the Earth's surface, so the light received is more indirect and of lower intensity. Between this effect and the shorter daylight hours, the axial tilt of the Earth accounts for most of the seasonal variation in climate in both hemispheres.\n\nCompared to axial tilt, other factors contribute little to seasonal temperature changes. The seasons are not the result of the variation in Earth's distance to the Sun because of its elliptical orbit. In fact, Earth reaches perihelion (the point in its orbit closest to the Sun) in January, and it reaches aphelion (the point farthest from the Sun) in July, so the slight contribution of orbital eccentricity opposes the temperature trends of the seasons in the Northern Hemisphere. In general, the effect of orbital eccentricity on Earth's seasons is a 7% variation in sunlight received.\n\nOrbital eccentricity can influence temperatures, but on Earth, this effect is small and is more than counteracted by other factors; research shows that the Earth as a whole is actually slightly warmer when \"farther\" from the sun. This is because the Northern Hemisphere has more land than the Southern, and land warms more readily than sea.\nAny noticeable intensification of southern winters and summers due to Earth's elliptical orbit is mitigated by the abundance of water in the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nSeasonal weather fluctuations (changes) also depend on factors such as proximity to oceans or other large bodies of water, currents in those oceans, El Niño/ENSO and other oceanic cycles, and prevailing winds.\n\nIn the temperate and polar regions, seasons are marked by changes in the amount of sunlight, which in turn often causes cycles of dormancy in plants and hibernation in animals. These effects vary with latitude and with proximity to bodies of water. For example, the South Pole is in the middle of the continent of Antarctica and therefore a considerable distance from the moderating influence of the southern oceans. The North Pole is in the Arctic Ocean, and thus its temperature extremes are buffered by the water. The result is that the South Pole is consistently colder during the southern winter than the North Pole during the northern winter.\n\nThe seasonal cycle in the polar and temperate zones of one hemisphere is opposite to that of the other. When it is summer in the Northern Hemisphere, it is winter in the Southern, and vice versa.\n\nThe tropical and subtropical regions see little annual fluctuation of sunlight. However, seasonal shifts occur along a rainy, low-pressure belt called the Intertropical Convergence Zone (ICZ). As a result, the amount of precipitation tends to vary more dramatically than the average temperature. When the Zone is north of the Equator, the northern tropics experience their wet season while the southern tropics have their dry season. This pattern reverses when the Zone migrates to a position south of the Equator.\n\nIn meteorological terms, the solstices (the maximum and minimum insolation) do not fall in the middles of summer and winter. The heights of these seasons occur up to 7 weeks later because of seasonal lag. Seasons, though, are not always defined in meteorological terms.\n\nIn astronomical reckoning by hours of daylight alone, the solstices and equinoxes are in the \"middle\" of the respective seasons. Because of seasonal lag due to thermal absorption and release by the oceans, regions with a continental climate, which predominate in the Northern Hemisphere, often consider these four dates to be the \"start\" of the seasons as in the diagram, with the cross-quarter days considered seasonal midpoints. The length of these seasons is not uniform because of Earth's elliptical orbit and its different speeds along that orbit.\n\nCalendar-based reckoning defines the seasons in absolute rather than relative terms. Accordingly, if floral activity is regularly observed during the coolest quarter of the year in a particular area, it is still considered winter despite the traditional association of flowers with spring and summer. Additionally, the seasons are considered to change on the same dates everywhere that uses a particular calendar method regardless of variations in climate from one area to another. Most calendar-based methods use a four-season model to identify the warmest and coldest seasons, which are separated by two intermediate seasons.\n\nMeteorological seasons are reckoned by temperature, with summer being the hottest quarter of the year and winter the coldest quarter of the year. In 1780 the Societas Meteorologica Palatina (which became defunct in 1795), an early international organization for meteorology, defined seasons as groupings of three whole months as identified by the Gregorian calendar. Ever since, professional meteorologists all over the world have used this definition.\nTherefore, for temperate areas in the northern hemisphere, spring begins on 1 March, summer on 1 June, autumn on 1 September, and winter on 1 December. For the southern hemisphere temperate zone, spring begins on 1 September, summer on 1 December, autumn on 1 March, and winter on 1 June. In Australasia the meteorological terms for seasons apply to the temperate zone that occupies all of New Zealand, New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania, the south-eastern corner of South Australia and the south-west of Western Australia, and the south east Queensland areas south of Brisbane.\n\nIn Sweden and Finland, meteorologists use a non-calendar based definition for the seasons based on the temperature. Spring begins when the daily averaged temperature permanently rises above 0 °C, summer begins when the temperature permanently rises above +10 °C, summer ends when the temperature permanently falls below +10 °C and winter begins when the temperature permanently falls below 0 °C. \"Permanently\" here means that the daily averaged temperature has remained above or below the limit for seven consecutive days. This implies two things: first, the seasons do not begin at fixed dates but must be determined by observation and are known only after the fact; and second, a new season begins at different dates in different parts of the country. In Great Britain, the onset of spring used to be defined as when the maximum daily temperature reached 50 °F (10 °C) in a defined sequence of days. This almost always occurred in March. However, with global warming this temperature is now not uncommon in the winter.\n\nAstronomical timing as the basis for designating the temperate seasons dates back at least to the Julian calendar used by the ancient Romans. It continues to be used on many modern Gregorian calendars worldwide, although some countries like Australia, New Zealand, and Russia prefer to use meteorological reckoning. The precise timing of the seasons is determined by the exact times of transit of the sun over the tropics of Cancer and Capricorn for the solstices and the times of the sun's transit over the equator for the equinoxes, or a traditional date close to these times.\n\nThe following diagram shows the relation between the line of solstice and the line of apsides of Earth's elliptical orbit. The orbital ellipse (with eccentricity exaggerated for effect) goes through each of the six Earth images, which are sequentially the perihelion (periapsis—nearest point to the sun) on anywhere from 2 January to 5 January, the point of March equinox on 19, 20 or 21 March, the point of June solstice on 20 or 21 June, the aphelion (apoapsis—farthest point from the sun) on anywhere from 4 July to 7 July, the September equinox on 22 or 23 September, and the December solstice on 21 or 22 December.\n\nThese \"astronomical\" seasons are not of equal length, because of the elliptical nature of the orbit of the Earth, as discovered by Johannes Kepler. From the March equinox it currently takes 92.75 days until the June solstice, then 93.65 days until the September equinox, 89.85 days until the December solstice and finally 88.99 days until the March equinox.\n\nThe times of the equinoxes and solstices are not fixed with respect to the modern Gregorian calendar, but fall about six hours later every year, amounting to one full day in four years. They are reset by the occurrence of a leap year. The Gregorian calendar is designed to keep the March equinox no later than 21 March as accurately as is practical. \"Also see: Gregorian calendar seasonal error.\"\n\nThe calendar equinox (used in the calculation of Easter) is 21 March, the same date as in the Easter tables current at the time of the Council of Nicaea in AD 325. The calendar is therefore framed to prevent the astronomical equinox wandering onto 22 March. From Nicaea to the date of the reform, the years 500, 600, 700, 900, 1000, 1100, 1300, 1400 and 1500, which would not have been leap years in the Gregorian calendar, amount to nine days, but astronomers directed that ten days be removed.\n\nCurrently, the most common equinox and solstice dates are March 20, June 21, September 22 or 23 and December 21; the four-year average slowly shifts to earlier times as the century progresses. This shift is a full day in about 128 years (compensated mainly by the century \"leap year\" rules of the Gregorian calendar) and as 2000 was a leap year the current shift has been progressing since the beginning of the last century, when equinoxes and solstices were relatively late. This also means that in many years of the twentieth century, the dates of March 21, June 22, September 23 and December 22 were much more common, so older books teach (and older people may still remember) these dates.\n\nNote that all the times are given in UTC (roughly speaking, the time at Greenwich, ignoring British Summer Time). People living farther to the east (Asia and Australia), whose local times are in advance, will see the astronomical seasons apparently start later; for example, in Tonga (UTC+13), an equinox occurred on September 24, 1999, a date which will not crop up again until 2103. On the other hand, people living far to the west (America) whose clocks run behind UTC may experience an equinox as early as March 19.\n\nOver thousands of years, the Earth's axial tilt and orbital eccentricity vary (see Milankovitch cycles). The equinoxes and solstices move westward relative to the stars while the perihelion and aphelion move eastward. Thus, ten thousand years from now Earth's northern winter will occur at aphelion and northern summer at perihelion. The severity of seasonal change — the average temperature difference between summer and winter in location — will also change over time because the Earth's axial tilt fluctuates between 22.1 and 24.5 degrees.\n\nSmaller irregularities in the times are caused by perturbations of the Moon and the other planets.\n\nSolar timing is based on insolation in which the solstices and equinoxes are seen as the midpoints of the seasons. It was the method for reckoning seasons in medieval Europe, especially by the Celts, and is still ceremonially observed in Ireland and some east Asian countries. Summer is defined as the quarter of the year with the greatest insolation and winter as the quarter with the least.\n\nThe solar seasons change at the cross-quarter days, which are about 3–4 weeks earlier than the meteorological seasons and 6–7 weeks earlier than seasons starting at equinoxes and solstices. Thus, the day of greatest insolation is designated \"midsummer\" as noted in William Shakespeare's play \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", which is set on the summer solstice. On the Celtic calendar, the start of the seasons corresponds to four Pagan agricultural festivals - the traditional first day of winter is 1 November (Samhain, the Celtic origin of Halloween); spring starts 1 February (Imbolc, the Celtic origin of Groundhog Day); summer begins 1 May (Beltane, the Celtic origin of May Day); the first day of autumn is 1 August (Celtic Lughnasadh).\n\nThe traditional calendar in China forms the basis of other such systems in East Asia. Its seasons are traditionally based on 24 periods known as solar terms. The four seasons \"chūn\" (), \"xià\" (), \"qiū\" (), and \"dōng\" () are universally translated as \"spring\", \"summer\", \"autumn\", and \"winter\" but actually begin much earlier, with the solstices and equinoxes forming the \"midpoint\" of each season rather than their \"start\". Astronomically, the seasons are said to begin on Lichun (,  \"standing spring\") on about 4 February, Lixia () on about 6 May, Liqiu () on about 8 August, and Lidong () on about 7 November. These dates were not part of the traditional lunar calendar, however, and moveable holidays such as Chinese New Year and the Mid-Autumn Festival are more closely associated with the seasons.\n\nSome calendars in south Asia use a six-season method where the number of seasons between summer and winter can number from one to three. The dates are fixed at even intervals of months.\n\nIn the Hindu calendar of tropical and subtropical India, there are six seasons or Ritu that are calendar-based in the sense of having fixed dates: Vasanta (spring), Greeshma (summer), Varsha (monsoon), Sharad (autumn), Hemanta (early winter), and Shishira (prevernal or late winter). The six seasons are ascribed to two months each of the twelve months in the Hindu calendar. The rough correspondences are:\n\nThe Bengali Calendar is similar but differs in start and end times. It has the following seasons or ritu:\n\nThe Tamil calendar follows a similar pattern of six seasons\nThe Noongar people of South-West Western Australia also recognise maar-keyen bonar, or six seasons. Each season's arrival is heralded not by a calendar date, but by environmental factors such as changing winds, flowering plants, temperature and migration patterns and lasts approximately two standard calendar months. The seasons also correlate to aspects of the human condition, intrinsically linking the lives of the people to the world that surrounds them and also dictating their movements, as with each season, various parts of country would be visited which were particularly abundant or safe from the elements.\n\nThe timing and feel of the seasons has been noted as having changed due to the current trends in climate change.\n\nThe North American Cree and possibly other Algonquian speaking peoples used or still use a 6 season system. The extra two seasons denoting the freezing and breaking up of the ice on rivers and lakes.\nAny point north of the Arctic Circle or south of the Antarctic Circle will have one period in the summer when the sun does not set, and one period in the winter when the sun does not rise. At progressively higher latitudes, the maximum periods of \"midnight sun\" and \"polar night\" are progressively longer.\n\nFor example, at the military and weather station Alert located at 82°30′05″N and 62°20′20″W, on the northern tip of Ellesmere Island, Canada (about 450 nautical miles or 830 km from the North Pole), the sun begins to peek above the horizon for minutes per day at the end of February and each day it climbs higher and stays up longer; by 21 March, the sun is up for over 12 hours. On 6 April the sun rises at 0522 UTC and remains above the horizon until it sets below the horizon again on 6 September at 0335 UTC. By October 13 the sun is above the horizon for only 1 hour 30 minutes and on October 14 it does not rise above the horizon at all and remains below the horizon until it rises again on 27 February.\n\nFirst light comes in late January because the sky has twilight, being a glow on the horizon, for increasing hours each day, for more than a month before the sun first appears with its disc above the horizon. From mid-November to mid-January, there is no twilight.\n\nIn the weeks surrounding 21 June, in the northern polar region, the sun is at its highest elevation, appearing to circle the sky there without going below the horizon. Eventually, it does go below the horizon, for progressively longer periods each day until around the middle of October, when it disappears for the last time until the following February. For a few more weeks, \"day\" is marked by decreasing periods of twilight. Eventually, from mid-November to mid-January, there is no twilight and it is continuously dark. In mid January the first faint wash of twilight briefly touches the horizon (for just minutes per day), and then twilight increases in duration with increasing brightness each day until sunrise at end of February, then on 6 April the sun remains above the horizon until mid October.\n\nEcologically speaking, a season is a period of the year in which only certain types of floral and animal events happen (e.g.: flowers bloom—spring; hedgehogs hibernate—winter). So, if we can observe a change in daily floral/animal events, the season is changing. In this sense, ecological seasons are defined in absolute terms, unlike calendar-based methods in which the seasons are relative. If specific conditions associated with a particular ecological season don't normally occur in a particular region, then that area cannot be said to experience that season on a regular basis.\n\nSix seasons can be distinguished which do not have fixed calendar-based dates like the meteorological and astronomical seasons. Oceanic regions tend to experience the beginning of the hibernal season up to a month later than . Conversely, prevernal and vernal seasons begin up to a month earlier near oceanic and coastal areas. For example, prevernal crocus blooms typically appear as early as February in coastal areas of British Columbia, the British Isles, but generally don't appear until March or April in locations like the Midwest USA or parts of eastern Europe. The actual dates for each season vary by climate region and can shift from one year to the next. Average dates listed here are for mild and cool temperate climate zones in the Northern Hemisphere:\n\nIn the tropics, where seasonal dates also vary, it is more common to speak of the rainy (or wet, or monsoon) season versus the dry season. For example, in Nicaragua the dry season (November to April) is called 'summer' and the rainy season (May to October) is called 'winter', even though it is located in the northern hemisphere. In some tropical areas a three-way division into hot, rainy, and cool season is used. There is no noticeable change in the amount of sunlight at different times of the year. However, many regions (such as the northern Indian ocean) are subject to monsoon rain and wind cycles.\n\nFloral and animal activity variation near the equator depends more on wet/dry cycles than seasonal temperature variations, with different species flowering (or emerging from cocoons) at specific times before, during, or after the monsoon season. Thus, the tropics are characterized by numerous \"mini-seasons\" within the larger seasonal blocks of time.\n\nIn the tropical parts of Australia in the northern parts of Queensland, Western Australia and the Northern Territory, wet and dry seasons are observed in addition to or in place of temperate season names.\n\nIndigenous people in polar, temperate and tropical climates of northern Eurasia, the Americas, Africa, Oceania, and Australia have traditionally defined the seasons ecologically by observing the activity of the plants, animals and weather around them. Each separate tribal group traditionally observes different seasons determined according to local criteria that can vary from the hibernation of polar bears on the arctic tundras to the growing seasons of plants in the tropical rainforests. In Australia, some tribes have up to eight seasons in a year, as do the Sami people in Scandinavia. Many indigenous people who no longer live directly off the land in traditional often nomadic styles, now observe modern methods of seasonal reckoning according to what is customary in their particular country or region.\n\nAs noted, a variety of dates are used in different countries to mark the changes of seasons, especially those that are calendar based. These observances are often declared \"official\" within their respective jurisdictions by the local or national media, even when the weather or climate is contradictory. However they are mainly a matter of custom only, and have not generally been proclaimed by governments north or south of the equator for civil purposes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42318140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42318140", "title": "Sextil Pușcariu", "text": "Sextil Pușcariu\n\nSextil Iosif Pușcariu (January 4, 1877–May 5, 1948) was an Austro-Hungarian-born Romanian linguist and philologist. A native Brașov educated in France and Germany, he was active in Transylvania's cultural life and worked as a Romanian-language professor at Czernowitz in Bukovina. A soldier for Austria-Hungary during World War I, he embraced the creation of Greater Romania at its conclusion, leading efforts to create a new university in Cluj and setting up a research institute in the same city dedicated to the study of his native language. Interested in a variety of disciplines, he published widely and brought new ideas into Romania, as well as overseeing two monumental projects related to the language: the composition of a dictionary, and the creation of an atlas.\n\nCommitted to ethnic nationalism and cultural conservatism, Pușcariu radicalized himself during the 1920s and '30s, emerging as a supporter of fascist politics. With the onset of World War II, he moved to Berlin, where he led a propaganda institute meant to promote Romanian culture in the German Reich, as well as counter Hungary's justifications for absorbing Northern Transylvania. After his return home, his health deteriorated while the authorities of the new Communist regime initiated legal proceedings. He died before he could be sentenced, and while his work was largely shunned for two decades, his legacy revived following the collapse of the regime.\n\nAccording to Pușcariu's own research, the family originated in Maramureș, spending time in Moldavia before ending up in southern Transylvania. Named \"Iuga\" in Maramureș, their surname was then \"Pușcașu\" before the final form was selected at the suggestion of Bishop Ioan Lemeni. In the latter part of the 18th century, one Iuga Pușcașu left Țara Făgărașului and arrived at Sohodol village near Bran; it was from two of his sons that the prominent family was descended. Sextil's grandfather Ioan Pușcașu, a priest from Sohodol, had five sons and five daughters, providing all of them a rigorous education. One son was Ioan Pușcariu, who became a noted jurist and historian, while another, Ilarion, left his mark as a theologian. Sextil's father Iosif (1835-1923) studied at the Transylvanian Saxon high school in Brașov before being sent to learn Theology in Sibiu. Metropolitan Andrei Șaguna observed that Iosif lacked a priestly vocation and gave him permission to leave the seminary in order to study Law. After graduating from the Saxon Law Academy, where he published a humor newsletter, the elder Pușcariu served as a judge in Zărnești from 1848 to 1867, running his courtroom in Romanian. After marrying Eufrosina Ciurcu, who came from a merchant family, he moved to Brașov to work as a lawyer. Applying his literary talent, he founded \"Cocoșul Roșu\", a humor magazine, editing it between 1874 and 1878 and in 1881.\nBorn in Brașov, Sextil Pușcariu attended the Romanian high school in his native city before going to Germany and France for his undergraduate and doctoral degrees. Trained in the spirit of Positivism, he was one of the first Romanian scholars to make a transition from philology to methodical linguistics. At the University of Paris, between 1899 and 1901, he studied under Gaston Paris, while his doctoral adviser at Leipzig University was Gustav Weigand. He also studied at the University of Vienna, teaching there in 1904.\n\nThrough 1901, Pușcariu's writings regularly appeared in \"Gazeta de Transilvania\". He also made important contributions to \"Luceafărul\", headed by Octavian Codru Tăslăuanu (whom he had befriended as a schoolmate in Brașov), while it appeared both in Budapest and, after 1906, in Sibiu. In 1902, he was elected a corresponding member of ASTRA's literary section. During the remainder of his life, he undertook activities related to the society, although at varying paces: active that decade in its philological efforts, he found himself largely overtaken by other activities in the 1910s, only to organize a series of conferences starting in the mid-1920s in Transylvania's towns, both large and small. These continued through 1939, and while his work again took him away from ASTRA in the 1940s, it was to its Brașov chapter's president that he sent the manuscript of his history of the city in 1947.\n\nPușcariu made frequent crossings into the Kingdom of Romania (the \"Old Kingdom\", in later reference). He was elected a corresponding member of the Romanian Academy in 1906, becoming a titular member in 1914. He also became one of several Transylvanian affiliates of \"Sămănătorul\", the Romanian traditionalist and ethnic nationalist review in Bucharest, finding his ideas on linguistsics and history challenged by Ovid Densusianu and Ion Aurel Candrea. Pușcariu's scholarly work was featured in the mainstream review \"Convorbiri Literare\", signaling the latter's own transition toward \"Sămănătorist\" nationalism.\n\nWhile at Leipzig, he came into contact with Wilhelm Meyer-Lübke, under whom he began his university career and who offered him a post at the University of Fribourg. Pușcariu declined, citing a wish to be closer to the Romanian lands. He taught Romanian language and literature at Czernowitz University from 1906, replacing the retiring Ion G. Sbiera, and eventually rising to become dean of the Literature and Philosophy Faculty. While there, he refused the chance to teach at Vienna, as he would not have been able to lecture in Romanian, at the same time declaring his adherence to Pan-Germanism.\n\nThe outbreak of World War I caught Pușcariu in Techirghiol, Romania. A reserve officer in the Austro-Hungarian Army, and overall an Austrian patriot, he rushed back to be mobilized in Brașov, and was later ordered to Cisnădie. In September 1914, after a liturgical music concert in the Sibiu Lutheran Cathedral, he met Onisifor Ghibu, whom he had known since 1905, and who records the deep concern the ongoing conflict was causing Pușcariu. Subsequently, he was stationed on the Italian Front. There, his sentiments of loyalty toward the Empire conflicted with the Italophilia he felt toward a country whose inhabitants he saw as the natural allies of the Romanians, a fellow Latin people. Czernowitz (\"Cernăuți\"), the site of his residence, manuscripts and materials, fell to the Imperial Russian Army in the first half of the war. From February to June 1916, he was intermittently hospitalized for eye problems, first at Trieste, where he met Iuliu Maniu, and later at Innsbruck, followed by Brașov. When the Romanian Kingdom entered the war in August, on the side of the Triple Entente, he was either at home on leave or at the front, but in either case continued his research. The following January, he began keeping a diary, writing fairly regular entries until his wife's death in 1944. While on the front in early 1918 dealing with military accounting and supplies, he worked on a glossary of the Istro-Romanian language.\n\nIn October 1918, he founded the newspaper \"Glasul Bucovinei\", an organ that had as its limited initial goal the protection of rights for the province's Romanians, who formed an overall minority of the local population. However, events quickly evolved and he served as a vice president of the Romanian National Council that took the more decisive step of proclaiming the union of Bukovina with Romania the following month at Czernowitz. Pușcariu worked very closely with academic Ion Nistor, helping him organize the radically nationalistic Democratic Unionist group from a base of \"Glasul\" intellectuals. However, he was himself inactive politically, and later stated that he had grown disillusioned with politics. In January 1919, writing in \"Glasul Bucovinei\", Pușcariu penned a strongly positive review of \"Poemele luminii\", the debut volume of Lucian Blaga, helping launch his career.\n\nTransylvania united with Romania on December 1, 1918, but Pușcariu was unable to attend the festivities at Alba Iulia, being sick in bed with a case of influenza he had caught at Iași. Following this event, which marked the culmination of Greater Romania's creation, he was named the first rector of the Superior Dacia University in Cluj. A Franz Joseph University already existed in the city, but its Hungarian faculty departed as a bloc and an entirely new professorial corps and administrative structure were required. The revamped university had two founders, the idealistic Ghibu and the more practical Pușcariu. Chosen by the Directing Council, Transylvania's provisional government, the latter headed a twenty-man committee charged with the seemingly insurmountable task of setting up four faculties (Literature and Philosophy, Medicine, Science, Law) and recruiting professors within a few months. As a native Transylvanian, Pușcariu was familiar with the Austro-Hungarian milieu; he also had relations with academics in Western Europe and was close to a number of figures in the Old Kingdom, especially Nicolae Iorga. Set up in July 1919, the committee included twelve professors from the Universities of Iași and Bucharest, and eight Transylvanians.\n\nDespite pressures from the Romanian National Party, he announced a strictly apolitical hiring process, only making an exception for Maniu's brother Cassiu, a law professor he found \"slightly ridiculous, but friendly and discreet\". The new professors were mainly young, but also included a contingent of established Old Kingdom academics and Romanians working abroad, as well as foreign scholars. Pușcariu had insisted his formal appointment come from within the university rather than the government, which allowed him to deny Iași and Bucharest a greater say in the proceedings. He also advocated against extending to Cluj the same set of laws that governed the Old Kingdom institutions, as he found them unsatisfactory; the laws were not applied uniformly until 1925. Notably, Pușcariu hired Gheorghe Bogdan-Duică over Eugen Lovinescu; the former was, in addition to being a Transylvanian and a scholar of some local renown, Iorga's brother-in-law. It was Pușcariu's idea to bring in foreign academics, mainly from France, including geographer Emmanuel de Martonne, who drew Romania's expanded borders at the Paris Peace Conference; and Jules Guyart of Lyon University, who became the medical faculty's first head. Courses began in November 1919, with a grand opening held the following February. Cluj had suddenly become a visible European academic center. Pușcariu left the rectorate in 1920. Between 1922 and 1926, he served as part of Romania's delegation to the League of Nations.\n\nA member of the Romanian Orthodox Church, Pușcariu stood out among his generation for fusing the national and religious identity into a culturally conservative mold. In his Romanian literature history tract of 1921 (\"Istoria literaturii române. Epoca veche\"), he concluded that \"our Orthodoxism was the most significant event when it came to our cultural development\". This, he noted at the time, had both positive and negative effects: Romanians were absent from the Renaissance, but were also free to develop their own culture, one of \"measure and harmony\". Pușcariu was to become the first president of the Romanian Orthodox Brotherhood, founded at Cluj in 1933. At its Congress in 1937, he repeated the claim that \"our Orthodoxy is our only criterion for differentiation, for we are the only Latin people of the Orthodox faith\". \"Istoria literaturii...\", \"very popular with students and men of culture\", and heavily influenced by Iorga, made a point of discovering or reclaiming early contributions to fine writing in the medieval principalities. According to literary historian Eugen Negrici, this effort was unconvincing: \"The aesthetic gamble is a meek one, and [Pușcariu's] critical insights and interpretative newness are both frail. [...] However, the imposing illustrations and the openness [...] toward other forms of ancient art (architecture, painting, embroidery, miniatures, etc.) are not without consequences. Such rich and motley environs become a resonance box for the hardly perceptible sound of an actual literature. We may now fool ourselves that this literature is one of force and consistency\".\n\nAn anti-Semitic campaign swept Romanian universities in the wake of World War I. In this context, at the time the 1920-1921 school year opened, Pușcariu expressed his concern that Jews were disproportionately represented in the Medicine and Law faculties. He suggested they congregated toward those subjects because of surer and more profitable career prospects, given the lack of doctors, administrators and magistrates in Romania's newly acquired provinces. A \"numerus clausus\" was enacted in Hungary in September 1920, leading to a surge in Hungarian Jewish enrollment at Cluj. Prompted by the medical faculty's leadership, the university senate discussed introduction of a similar policy. In early 1921, students, later joined by cultural figures, began demanding that sociologist Eugen Ehrlich be fired from his professorship at Cernăuți. Ehrlich was a Jew who had converted to Catholicism, but the primary motivating factor in his firing appears to have been a campaign to fill teaching posts with ethnic Romanians. Ehrlich, who was rector in 1906-1907, had been instrumental in Pușcariu's being hired at the university. However, no one intervened on his behalf; not even Pușcariu tried to stop his benefactor's dismissal.\n\nBy 1922-1923, as a nationalist, anti-democratic and anti-Semitic student movement centered around Corneliu Zelea Codreanu gained ascendancy, he was not at the forefront of its radical promoters, but rather figured among a group of moderate, respectable academic supporters who countenanced the agitators and lent them an air of general acceptance. In March 1923, he wrote an article applauding the 15,000 student movement participants; praising the cohesion they showed, rare for Romania, he claimed they represented \"a healthy and spontaneous reaction of the national preservation instinct\". Addressing students from Bukovina, he called the \"numerus clausus\" something all those who wished the country well would endorse, for \"in our country [which we] gained with so many sacrifices, we no longer have air to breathe; the invasion of the foreign element stifles us, chokes us\".\n\nFrom around 1922, Pușcariu approached various intellectuals and politicians with the goal of creating new institutions for the preservation of cultural identity. With Vintilă Brătianu and Nistor, he set up the Brătianu Foundation, which financed a network of summer schools for adult education. With Iorga's assistance, Pușcariu established the Museum of the Romanian Language, a research institute he had conceived in early 1917, while on the front. The large group of collaborators and students who advanced the language as an academic discipline came to be known as the Cluj School of linguistics. Rather than confine himself to a narrow field, Pușcariu incorporated linguistics, history, sociology and even literature into his studies, constantly referring to research in other disciplines. He introduced Romanian linguistics to the theories of Meyer-Lübke, particularly as they related to the form of Latin that underpins the language; to Matteo Bartoli's ideas about the isolated and peripheral position of the language; and to Jules Gilliéron's dialectological notions. In terms of Romanian scholars, he incorporated the archaeological findings of Vasile Pârvan, as well as the sociological and folkloric studies of Simion Mehedinți and Romulus Vuia. His respect for their opinions led him to draw upon the work of Densusianu, Candrea, Constantin C. Giurescu, Iorgu Iordan, Alexandru Rosetti, Alexandru Graur and others. He had over eight hundred articles and numerous books to his name. In 1930, he helped organize a Folklore Archive within the museum building; led by Ion Mușlea, this was the country's first institution dedicated exclusively to the study of its folklore tradition.\n\nThe museum, associated with Cluj University (soon renamed after King Ferdinand), had as its goals the spread of popular interest in studying and cultivating the Romanian language, the training of Romanian philologists and the publication of monographs, special dictionaries, glossaries and bibliographies. In 1906, following earlier attempts by August Treboniu Laurian, I. C. Massim, Bogdan Petriceicu Hasdeu and Alexandru Philippide, the Romanian Academy assigned Pușcariu the task of writing a \"Dictionary of the Romanian Language\", with the latter two personally giving him their notes. The museum ended up being the nerve center of the project, headed by Constantin Lacea and Theodor Capidan, who in turn were assisted by numerous other linguists in different stages. Lexical and etymological notes were presented in weekly meetings and later published in the museum's \"Dacoromania\" magazine, and in this way, practically all active members of the museum contributed to the \"Dictionary\". Pușcariu and his team worked for 43 years, until 1948, completing some 60,000 definitions across over 3,000 pages covering up to the letter \"L\".\n\nThe museum's second great project was a \"Romanian Linguistic Atlas\", conceived and led by Pușcariu but principally executed by two of his associates, Sever Pop and Emil Petrovici. The pair prepared fieldwork in 398 localities, undertook the work between 1930 and 1938, thereafter drawing the maps. By 1943, there had appeared four volumes encompassing Pop's research and three from Petrovici, as well as a volume on dialect texts.\n\nFinally, \"Dacoromania\" appeared from 1921 to 1948, in eleven enormous volumes totaling some 9,000 pages. The magazine contained studies, articles, notes and reviews, mainly on linguistics (lexicology, dialectology, linguistic geography, language history, onomastics, general linguistics, grammar, phonetics and phonology) and philology, as well as research on history and literary criticism, cultural history and folklore. Each edition included a bibliography that systematically recorded writings on linguistics, philology, folklore, ethnography and literature, connected to Romanian language, culture and literature, both domestically and abroad. Three generations of scholars worked on the magazine, with most articles presented at weekly meetings. Pușcariu, in an obituary for Nicolae Drăganu, commented on these sessions' usefulness, noting how the members would benefit from constructive criticism, \"sometimes pointed, mainly intelligent, but never bitter, for the critical spirit never originated from a pleasure to destroy, but from a desire to complete, while the joy in another's discovery was always greater than the temptation to persist in a mistake\".\n\nDuring the mid 1930s, Pușcariu became a manifest supporter of Codreanu's semi-legal fascist movement, the Iron Guard (or \"Legionary Movement\"). Records tend to show that he did not formally register with the Guard itself, although his name appears among the card-carrying members of the Guard's political front, the \"Everything for the Country\" party. He also signed his name to a list of intellectuals who \"believed in Legionary victory\". On the occasion, he noted that the Guard had been the surest way of countering a \"Jewish movement\" at university, but also professed his admiration for Codreanu's \"sincere religiosity\" and \"virtue\". A contributor to the Guardist magazine, \"Buna Vestire\", he added his voice to the campaign against modernist literature and \"Jewish influence\" in Romanian letters. The Nazi German consul in Cluj noted that Pușcariu's \"decidedly right-wing orientation\" may have prevented his obtaining the rectorate or even a post in the academic senate at the latest university elections.\n\nA year into World War II, Romania ceded Northern Transylvania to Hungary, as a result of the Nazi-mediated Second Vienna Award. The political crisis originating from this event also had the unlikely consequence of bringing the Iron Guard to power, producing the \"National Legionary State\". Slightly earlier, in August 1940, Pușcariu had proposed the founding of the Berlin-headquartered Romanian Institute in Germany, becoming its first president and serving until 1943. The purpose of this body was to counter Hungarian propaganda, particularly as related to Northern Transylvania.\n\nPușcariu, who made generous financial contributions to the Guard's coffers, based his hiring at the institute on whether applicants belonged to the movement, and according to one of his employees there, was a member of the Guard's senate. Grigore Manoilescu, a prominent Iron Guard member who became the institute's director, was also Pușcariu's son-in-law; Maximilian Hacman, former rector at Cernăuți, was an old friend; among the younger hires was Constantin Noica. The order for establishing the institute came on August 16—still during King Carol II's National Renaissance Front regime—from the Foreign Ministry, led by Grigore's brother Mihail Manoilescu. Meanwhile, Pușcariu, as a symbol of continuity, was offered a renewed mandate as rector of the Cluj University, which had moved to Sibiu due to the Vienna Award; he accepted and took office in October. Upon relocating to Berlin, he delegated his powers to a philologist colleague, Alexe Procopovici, and later to Iuliu Hațieganu.\n\nPușcariu's institute was headquartered in a 26-room building in western Berlin, endowed with furniture of the highest quality ordered by Pușcariu and hosting large receptions attended by politicians and cultural figures. For instance, Education Minister Bernhard Rust paid a visit lasting over six hours in July 1942. Pușcariu held forth on the topic of Romanians' continuous presence in the Danubian space, particularly in Transylvania, and according to an internal memorandum, the visit ended with \"exceptionally cordial\" remarks toward his country. Pușcariu, in writings and interviews, made flattering remarks about the Nazi regime, calling it \"a new chapter in world history\" and \"a new world, a new era in the life of the German state\". Nazi Party figures were invited to receptions, including one in 1941 to commemorate the deaths of Ion Moța and Vasile Marin. \n\nMeanwhile, Pușcariu undertook to spread knowledge of Romania and its culture in Germany. The institute was subordinate to the Romanian Propaganda Ministry, and as early as 1931, Pușcariu had written an article expressing his concern at the fact that Romania's external propaganda was much weaker than that of its neighbors. He sought to have Romanian works staged in Germany, succeeding, for instance, in having Sabin Drăgoi's opera \"Năpasta\" and George Ciprian's play \"The Man and His Mule\" presented in Elbing in late 1942. In 1940, it was known that Romania did not enjoy a very positive image in Germany, with the country's consul in Cologne noting that its inhabitants were seen as \"gypsies or at best Balkan people, with very primitive habits\". Pușcariu attempted to change this through numerous articles appearing in speciality publications that he was able to have printed due to his connections in Germany. The propaganda books and articles that came out under Pușcariu's supervision intended to show Germans that Romanians were an Aryan people, that Romania deserved to win back its lost territories thanks to its alliance with Germany, that Russians were a communist people desiring to use Bessarabia as a beachhead to attack the rest of Europe, while Romanians had been anti-communist since the Hungarian–Romanian War began in 1918 and viewed the disputed province as a line of defense.\n\nHe made similar arguments in \"Basarabia\", an ample 1941 article in \"Revista Fundațiilor Regale\" journal that chronicled the province's history from antiquity until its return to Romania during Operation Barbarossa. Expounding on what he saw as Imperial Russian neglect and contempt for the Bessarabia Governorate, he contrasted this with \"the land rendered arable by the hard-working arms\" of Romanians. Pușcariu also brought up the 271 AD withdrawal of the Roman army south of the Danube, which left the agricultural population of Roman Dacia vulnerable to barbarian attack, comparing it with the previous year's departure of the Romanian Army from Bessarabia and subsequent Soviet occupation. He suggested that the 3rd century barbarians were \"surely not more inhuman than the Bolsheviks who overran Bessarabia in 1940\". As an old adherent of \"Sămănătorism\", Pușcariu strongly promoted the peasant as a symbol of Romanianism. He disseminated photographs of ordinary people from Bukovina, made unrealized plans for books on Romanian art and investigated the possibility of founding or reactivating Romanian language programs at a number of leading German universities. For his activities, he was awarded the Order of the German Eagle.\n\nIn Romania, Pușcariu's Berlin activity was not viewed in so favorable a light. As early as October 1940, the Education and Culture Ministries began to complain of Pușcariu's \"dictatorial\" powers in hiring personnel, but were overruled by General Ion Antonescu, the country's \"Conducător\", in December. The following February, financial issues appeared, with an investigation sought by Mihai Antonescu into the reportedly exorbitant sums being spent by the institute. Pușcariu ended up losing his rector's position at Sibiu and was accused of carrying on a months' long campaign against Ion Antonescu following the removal of the Guard from power as a result of the Legionnaires' rebellion. He often expressed the view that Heinrich Himmler would install the Guard back in power, and that the latter would then depose Antonescu.\n\nIn 1941-1942, the institute received just over a third of the 15 million lei budgeted; a half for 1942-1943; but zero of the 10 million in 1943. These moves were due not only to Pușcariu's Guard background, but also to his political maneuvers that raised the question of the institute being shut down. The budget cuts were a signal for him to resign and return to Romania. Although for a time he was able to finance the institute out of his salary at the University of Berlin, as well as—it appears—another, unknown source, he did ultimately depart in mid-1943. Nevertheless, Pușcariu gave formal approval to Antonescu's core policies, including Romania's war on the Eastern Front.\n\nA member of the Permanent Committee of Linguists, Pușcariu was admitted to the Saxonian Academy of Sciences and Humanities in 1936 and in 1939 became the second Romanian, after Dimitrie Cantemir, to join the Prussian Academy of Sciences. In addition to his activity as a propagandist, he worked on his definitive tract of sociolinguistics, \"Limba română\" (\"The Romanian Language\"), put out by Editura Fundațiilor Regale. According to philologist Pompiliu Constantinescu, the work exceeded \"the narrow bounds of specialization\", turning the historical development of language and into the ethnographic \"mirror\" of Romanian culture and civilization. \"Limba română\" broke ground in the professional study of the Romanian lexis, with a phonaesthetic retrospective on the national poet Mihai Eminescu and a sociological analysis of neologisms.\n\nIn September 1944, following the King Michael Coup and the country's changeover to the Allies, the left-leaning Romanian Writers' Society expelled Pușcariu from its ranks, thus signaling his marginalization. In October, a decree compelled Pușcariu to retire, including from the Museum he had led for a quarter century. The same month, the Communist Party press began targeting Pușcariu for his political affiliations: \"România Liberă\" published an article denouncing him as a traitor, while \"Contemporanul\" included him on a list of \"war criminals not yet on trial\", a category also including Ion Petrovici and Gheorghe I. Brătianu. This opened the way to further attacks in the Communist press, where terms such as \"fascist\" and \"enemy of the people\" were used to target the linguist.\n\nLate that December, Pușcariu suffered a stroke that left him unable to use his right hand and forced him to learn to write with his left. During his remaining three years, he continued to be active in writing his memoirs and working on the dictionary project. In January 1948, as the Romanian royal family prepared to leave the country permanently following the establishment of a Communist regime, he was sent an invitation to leave his residence in Bran and join them in exile. However, he refused, stating he wished to remain in his native country. Reportedly, he was only spared imprisonment by the fact of his partial paralysis. He had been placed on trial by the new regime but not yet sentenced when he died in Bran in May 1948, of heart failure.\n\nTwo days later, he was buried in Brașov's Groaveri Cemetery; Alexandru Lapedatu spoke on behalf of the Academy, later that year praising his memory at its general meeting. In November, the self-exiled writer Mircea Eliade eulogized him: \"Almost all the work done in Romanian philology over the last twenty-five years is thanks to him. He organized the University of Cluj, with its admirable Museum of the Romanian Language; he founded \"Daco-Romania\" magazine and strove to establish the Folklore Archive. Sextil Pușcariu believed, as did Lucian Blaga's generation, in a major destiny for Romanian spirituality\".\n\nSextil Pușcariu's vacant seat at the Academy was taken up by literary historian George Călinescu, in May 1948. For the first two decades after his death, linguists largely avoided using Pușcariu's work in their publications. Dumitru Macrea cited him as early as 1956, followed by Romulus Todoran and, later, Emil Petrovici. However, other collaborators, many of them facing their own difficulties with the regime, did not bring up their former mentor; these included Capidan and Lacea, as well as George Giuglea and Silviu Dragomir. Work on the dictionary was moved to Bucharest, while the museum and \"Dacoromania\" were disbanded. There was a colloquium held about his life at the Brașov County Museum in 1977, to mark the centenary of his birth. His reputation did not fully revive until after the Romanian Revolution of 1989, with his rehabilitation embodied by an international conference held at Cluj-Napoca in 1998. For the community of Romanians living in exile from the communist regime, Pușcariu served as a symbol of refusal to serve the new authorities, and in this spirit, Alphonse Juilland published a series of \"Cahiers Sextil Pușcariu\" in Western Europe and in the United States.\n\nHe married Leonora Maria Dima in 1905, and the couple had three children. She had studied music in Brașov; her father, a mathematics teacher at Pușcariu's high school, was the elder brother of composer Gheorghe Dima. Her death in September 1944 deeply affected him. His daughter Lia Pușcariu Manoilescu (1907-1965) was a linguist, as was his granddaughter Magdalena Vulpe (1936-2003), the daughter of Grigore Manoilescu. Vulpe, drawing on manuscripts left in the family vault at Bran, published four volumes of his memoirs: \"Călare pe două veacuri\" (1968), \"Brașovul de altădată\" (1977), \"Memorii\" (1978) and \"Sextil Pușcariu. Spița unui neam din Ardeal\" (1998). The Museum of the Romanian Language ultimately evolved into the Romanian Academy's Sextil Pușcariu Institute of Linguistics and Literary History, which has borne his name since 1990. There are streets named after Pușcariu in Bran, Cluj-Napoca, Oradea and Timișoara, as well as a high school in Bran, and his former home in the village center is preserved as a museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "7840942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7840942", "title": "Shurahbil ibn Amr", "text": "Shurahbil ibn Amr\n\nShurahbil ibn Amr was a Ghassanid governor of the vassal Ghassanid confederation (authority) under the Byzantine Empire in southern Syria region during the 7th century.\n"}
{"id": "37323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37323", "title": "Suetonius", "text": "Suetonius\n\nGaius Suetonius Tranquillus (), commonly known as Suetonius (; c. 69 – after 122 AD), was a Roman historian belonging to the equestrian order who wrote during the early Imperial era of the Roman Empire.\n\nHis most important surviving work is a set of biographies of twelve successive Roman rulers, from Julius Caesar to Domitian, entitled \"De Vita Caesarum\". He recorded the earliest accounts of Julius Caesar's epileptic seizures. Other works by Suetonius concern the daily life of Rome, politics, oratory, and the lives of famous writers, including poets, historians, and grammarians. A few of these books have partially survived, but many have been lost.\n\nGaius Suetonius Tranquillus was probably born in about 69 AD, a date deduced from his remarks describing himself as a \"young man\" twenty years after Nero's death. His place of birth is disputed, but most scholars place it in Hippo Regius, a small north African town in Numidia, in modern-day Algeria. It is certain that Suetonius came from a family of moderate social position, that his father, Suetonius Laetus, was a tribune of equestrian rank (\"tribunus angusticlavius\") in the Thirteenth Legion, and that Suetonius was educated when schools of rhetoric flourished in Rome.\n\nSuetonius was a close friend of senator and letter-writer Pliny the Younger. Pliny describes him as \"quiet and studious, a man dedicated to writing.\" Pliny helped him buy a small property and interceded with the Emperor Trajan to grant Suetonius immunities usually granted to a father of three, the \"ius trium liberorum\", because his marriage was childless. Through Pliny, Suetonius came into favour with Trajan and Hadrian.\nSuetonius may have served on Pliny’s staff when Pliny was Proconsul of Bithynia Pontus (northern Asia Minor) between 110 and 112. Under Trajan he served as secretary of studies (precise functions are uncertain) and director of Imperial archives. Under Hadrian, he became the Emperor's secretary. But, Hadrian later dismissed Suetonius for the latter's allegedly excessive informality with the empress Sabina.\n\nHe is mainly remembered as the author of \"De Vita Caesarum\"—translated as \"The Life of the Caesars\" although a more common English title is \"The Lives of the Twelve Caesars\" or simply \"The Twelve Caesars\"—his only extant work except for the brief biographies and other fragments noted below. \"The Twelve Caesars\", probably written in Hadrian's time, is a collective biography of the Roman Empire's first leaders, Julius Caesar (the first few chapters are missing), Augustus, Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius, Nero, Galba, Otho, Vitellius, Vespasian, Titus and Domitian. The book was dedicated to a friend Gaius Septicius Clarus, a prefect of the Praetorian Guard in 119. The work tells the tale of each Caesar's life according to a set formula: the descriptions of appearance, omens, family history, quotes, and then a history are given in a consistent order for each Caesar.\n\nThe two last works were written in Greek. They apparently survive in part in the form of extracts in later Greek glossaries.\n\nThe below listed lost works of Suetonius are from the Foreword written by Robert Graves in his translation of the \"Twelve Caesars.\"\n\nThe introduction to Loeb edition of Suetonius, translated by J. C. Rolfe, with an introduction by K. R. Bradley, references the \"Suda\" with the following titles:\n\nThe volume then goes on to add other titles not testified within the Suda.\n\nTwo other titles may also be collections of some of the aforelisted:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21135472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21135472", "title": "Tachiyaku", "text": "Tachiyaku\n\nThe term, which literally means \"standing role\", once was used to refer to all actors, to distinguish them from musicians and chanters, who were called .\n\nThere are two main types of \"tachiyaku\" role:\n\n\nThere are also a number of lesser categories of \"tachiyaku\" roles, including \"shinbōya\" (mild-mannered characters who are defined by their suffering great cruelty, usually at the hands of the play's villain) and \"sabakiyaku\" (level-headed, wise, and thoughtful characters, often serving as judges or the like). These are lesser roles, very rarely if ever serving as the chief protagonist or hero of a play.\n\nWhile there are a number of \"onnagata\" (female role specialists) who are particularly famous, most of the other top actors of both past and present specialize(d) in \"tachiyaku\" roles. This includes the lineages of Ichikawa Danjūrō, Ichikawa Ebizō, Nakamura Kanzaburō, Onoe Kikugorō, and many others.\n"}
{"id": "11186900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11186900", "title": "Timeline of Philippine elections", "text": "Timeline of Philippine elections\n\nThis is a timeline of Philippine elections, in which the parties of the President, Vice President, Senate President and House Speaker at the time of the elections are displayed.\n\nNote that in-house \"coups\" are common in the bicameral legislature in which several members jump ship to another party which would alter the balance between the parties and can lead to new house leaders, or they simply refuse the follow their party lines. Also, with the advent of the multi-party system in 1986, not one party was able to form a majority hence they instead formed coalitions from other parties.\n\nJose P. Laurel's term is marked as between the orange lines.\n"}
{"id": "6367005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6367005", "title": "Turkic migration", "text": "Turkic migration\n\nTurkic migration refers to the expansion of the Turkic tribes and Turkic languages into Central Asia, Eastern Europe and West Asia, mainly between the 6th and 11th centuries. The region of origin of the Turkic peoples is southern Siberia (North Asia) and the northern parts of modern-day Xinjiang, Mongolia and Kazakhstan.\n\nIdentified Turkic tribes were known by the 6th century, and by the 10th century most of Central Asia was settled by Turkic tribes. The Seljuq dynasty settled in Anatolia starting in the 11th century, ultimately resulting in permanent Turkic settlement and presence there. Meanwhile, other Turkic tribes either ultimately formed independent nations, such as Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan, and others now enclaves within other nations, such as Chuvashia, Bashkortostan, Tatarstan, the Crimean Tatars, the Uyghurs in China, and the Sakha Republic Siberia.\n\nThe earliest documented Turkic peoples appear as nomadic tribes on the plains of the Far East north of the Great Wall of China, which was constructed as a fortified border essentially between Han dynasty (206 BCE-220 CE) China (though started earlier) and the Xiongnu.\n\nThe population ancestral to the Turks is thought to have included the Xiongnu of Mongolia or along the upper Yenisei in Siberia (the area of the contemporary Tuvan language), known from historical sources. The Han chronicle of the Xiongnu, included in the \"Records of the Grand Historian\" of the second century BCE, traces a legendary history of them back a thousand years before the Han to a legendary ancestor, Chunwei, a supposed descendant of the Chinese rulers of the Xia dynasty (c. 2070 – c. 1600 BCE). Chunwei lived among the \"Mountain Barbarians\" Xianyun or Hunzhu. Xianyun and Hunzhu's names may connect them to the Turkic people, who later were said to have been iron-workers and to have kept a national shrine in a mountain cave in Mongolia.\n\nApparently the Xiongnu comprised a number of tribes and geographic groups, not all of which were probably Turkic (considering the later mixed ethnicity). The \"Records of the Grand Historian\" mention the Mianshu, Hunrong and Diyuan west of Long; the Yiqu, Dali, Wiezhi and Quyan north of the Qi and Liang mountains and Jing and Qi Rivers; the Forest Barbarians and Loufan north of Jin and the Eastern Barbarians and Mountain Barbarians north of Yan. Later the treatise mentions others.\n\nThere were apparently many of the latter. At the end of the Xia, about 1569 BCE by the reckoning of the \"Records of the Grand Historian\", the Chinese founded a city, Bin, among the Rong tribe of barbarians. In 1269 the Rong and the Di forced the relocation of Bin. About 1169 BCE the Quanyishi tribe was attacked by the Zhou Dynasty, which in 1159 forced all the barbarians into \"the submissive wastes\" north of the Jing and Luo Rivers. In 969 BCE \"King Mu attacked the Quanrong and brought back with him four white wolves and four white deer ...\" The early Turkic peoples believed that shamans could shape-shift into wolves.\n\nIn 769 Marquis Shen of the Zhou enlisted the assistance of the Quanrong in rebelling against the emperor You. The barbarians did not then withdraw but took Jiaohuo between the Jing and Wei Rivers and from there went marauding into central China, but were driven out. In 704 the Mountain Barbarians marauded through Yan, and in 660 BC attacked the Zhou emperor Xiang in Luo. He had discarded a barbarian queen. The barbarians put another on the throne. They went on plundering until driven out in 656 BC.\n\nSubsequently the Chinese drove out the Di and subordinated all the Xiongnu (temporarily at least). Around 456 BC the Chinese took Dai from them. The Yiqu tribe tried building fortifications but lost them to the Chinese in this period of their expansion. Here the detail of the narrative increases as it deals with the rise of the Qin Dynasty of 221-206 BCE, which is no doubt mainly historical rather than legendary. The Qin kept the Xiongnu at bay.\n\nIn trying to answer questions regarding the \"race\" of the proto-Turkic speakers, neither anthropometric nor genetic studies have provided conclusive answers. DNA analyses find affinities to West Eurasian populations in the west, North East Asian populations in the east, and a mixture of both on a gradient in-between. These genetic circumstances suggest that the major \"racial\" changes over this vast region occurred at a major earlier time than spread of Turkic languages; the languages may have evolved among populations that were already mixed.\n\nConcerning the cultural genesis of the Huns, the \"Cambridge Ancient History of China\" asserts: \"Beginning in about the eighth century BC, throughout inner Asia horse-riding pastoral communities appeared, giving origin to warrior societies.\" These were part of a larger belt of \"equestrian pastoral peoples\" stretching from the Black Sea to Mongolia, and known to the Greeks as the Scythians. The Scythians in the west were Iranian, speaking one among very many languages ultimately descended from Proto-Indo-European, whose speakers themselves are also hypothesised to have occupied the Pontic-Caspian Steppe, according to the leading theory of Indo-European origins, the Kurgan model. The communities of the northern belt north of China, a historically Inner Mongolia region were the Proto-Xiongnu.\n\nQin's campaign against the Xiongnu of 215 BCE kept the Xiongnu at bay, driving them out of and seizing the Ordos region. Problems re-emerged after the Qin Dynasty. The Xiong-nu attacked Shanxi of the Han in 201 BCE. Emperor Gaozu of Han bought them off with jade, silk and a Chinese wife for the Shanyu, or leader. Relations with the Xiongnu continued to be troubled and in 133 BC Emperor Wu of Han proceeded against them with 300,000 men. Eighty-one years and fourteen expeditions later in 52 BC the southern Xiongnu surrendered and the northern desisted from raiding. The Han Dynasty military expeditions continued near the frontier of China, in the Han–Xiongnu War, and in 89 AD the Xiongnu state was defeated and soon ended.\n\nOne especially severe round of nomadic rebellion in the early 4th century has led to the certain identification of the Xiongnu with the Huns. A letter (Letter II) written in the ancient Sogdian language excavated from a Han Dynasty watchtower in 1911 identified the perpetrators of these events as the \"xwn\", \"Huns\", supporting de Guignes' 1758 identification. The equivalence was not without its critics, notably Otto J. Maenchen-Helfen, who argued that \"xwn\" was a general name and could refer to anyone. More recently other evidence was noticed: Zhu Fahu, a monk, translated Sanskrit \"Hūṇa\" in the \"Tathāgataguhya Sūtra\" and in the \"Lalitavistara Sūtra\" as \"Xiongnu\". Vaissière reconstructs the pronunciation as *Xiong nuo. Moreover, the \"Book of Wei\" states that the king of the Xiongnu killed the king of Sogdia and took the country, an event is datable to the time of the Huns, who did exactly that; in short, \"... the name of the Huns is a precise referent and not generic.\"\n\nWhile their actual identity is still debated, the Huns have often been considered a Turkic people, and sometimes associated with the Xiongnu. Orosius has the Huns riding down upon the Ostrogoths in the year AD 377 totally by surprise, \"long shut off by inaccessible mountains\" and apparently of hitherto unsuspected existence. Whatever may have been his reasons for making such a statement, he and Goths might have found ample reference to the Huns in the classical geographers, such as Pliny and Ptolemy; in fact, some were already in Europe. The mountains were mythical as the Ostrogoths were located on the Pontic steppe, an easy target for Hunnic cavalry.\n\nWhile in Europe they incorporated others, such as Goths, Slavs, and Alans.\n\nThe Huns were not literate (according to Procopius) and left nothing linguistic with which to identify them except their names, which derive from Germanic, Iranian, Turkic, unknown and a mixture. Some, such as Ultinčur and Alpilčur, are like Turkish names ending in -čor, Pecheneg names in -tzour and Kirghiz names in -čoro. Names ending in -gur, such as Utigur and Onogur, and -gir, such as Ultingir, are like Turkish names of the same endings.\n\nOne tribe of the Huns called themselves the Acatir (Greek Akatiroi, Latin Acatiri), which Wilhelm Tomaschek derived from Agac-ari, \"forest men\", reminiscent of the \"Forest Barbarians\" of the Shi-Ji. The Agaj-eri are mentioned in an AD 1245 Turko-Arabian Dictionary. The name Agac-eri occurred in later history in Anatolia and Khuzistan(e.g. city of Aghajari). Maenchen-Helfen rejects this etymology on the grounds that g is not k and there appears to be no linguistic rule to make the connection. Herodotus, however, mentions the Agathyrsi, whom Latham connects with some early Acatiri in Dacia.\n\nJordanes places the \"most mighty race of the Acatziri, ignorant of agriculture, which lives upon its herds and upon hunting\" south of the Aesti (in part Prussians). A number of sources identify the Bulgars with the Huns. Another branch were the Saviri, or Sabir people. The strongest candidate for a remnant of the speakers of the Hunnic language are the Chuvash, who are on or near the location of the Volga Bulgars.\n\nThe end of the Huns as a Eurasian political unity is not known. A token end point for the Huns of the west, perhaps all the Huns, is the fixation of the head of Dengizich, a son of Attila, on a pole at Constantinople in 469. He had been defeated in Thrace in that year by Anagastes, a Gothic general in the service of the Roman Empire.\n\nVarious peoples continued to call themselves Huns even though acting autonomously, such as the Sabir people. According to the \"Cambridge History of Early Inner Asia\", the last state to call itself Hunnic was the Caucasian Kingdom of the Huns, visited in 682 by an Albanian bishop. Many of these peoples were Turkic but meanwhile other coalitions leading to explicitly named Turkic empires had been forming on the original range of the Xiong-nu. Their expansion has been conventionally called the \"Turkic migration\" but in fact the Turkics had already been \"migrating\" for some centuries.\n\nThe early-fourth-century saw a rebellion, with sacking of northern Chinese cities, by the Xiong-nu. However, most of the Xiongnu were later wiped out by the Chinese Ran Wei state (350–352) after Ran Min's cull order following the end of the Wei–Jie war, which annihilated three of the \"Five Hu\" tribes. In that century some of the Xiong-nu broke away and joined with the Di as the Five Hu, or \"Five Barbarian Peoples\" (Wu Hu 五胡), as the Chinese called them, for purposes of ruling the north of China. The Five Hu were the Xiong-nu, Jie, Zhi, Chiang people and Xianbei, although different groups of historians and historiographers have their own definitions.\n\nHowever, the Chinese name \"tie-le\", corresponding to \"Türük\", was used much earlier, around the period when the Mongolic tribes Tuoba and Rouran vied for hegemony over the Mongolian steppes around the 5th and 6th centuries.\n\nThe term \"Türk\" or \"Türküt\", corresponding to the Chinese name \"tu-jue\", was first used as an endonym in the Orkhon inscriptions of the Göktürks () of Central Asia. The first reference to \"Turks\" (\"Tujue\") appears in Chinese sources of the 6th century. The earliest evidence of Turkic languages as a separate group comes from the Orkhon inscriptions of the early 8th century.\n\nThe precise date of the initial expansion from the early homeland remains unknown. The first state known as \"Turk\", giving its name to the many states and peoples afterwards, was that of the Göktürks (\"gök\" = 'blue' or 'celestial', however in this context \"gök\" refers to the direction \"east\". Therefore, Gokturks are the Eastern Turks) in the 6th century. The head of the Ashina clan led his people from Li-jien (modern Zhelaizhai) to the Rouran seeking inclusion in their confederacy and protection from China. His tribe comprised famed metal smiths and was granted land near a mountain quarry that looked like a helmet, from which they got their name 突厥. A century later their power had increased such that they conquered the Rouruan and set about establishing a Göktürk Empire (reference required).\n\nThe Turkic family of languages were spoken by Bulgars, Pechenegs, Cumans, Dingling, Gaoche peoples long before the Göktürk Khanate came into prominence. Many groups speaking 'Turkic' languages never adopted the name \"Turk\" for their own identity. Among the peoples that came under Göktürk dominance and adopted its political culture and lingua-franca, the name \"Turk\" wasn't always the preferred identity. In other words, there wasn't a unified movement westward by a culture under one unified ethnic identity, such as that of the Mongol conquest of Eurasia under the Chinggisid political leadership. Rather, Turkic languages – both peripheral ones like the Bulgar branch and central ones like the Oghuz and Karluk-Chagatay branches – drifted westward by autonomous movements of diverse tribes and migrating traders, soldiers and townspeople, outnumbering and assimilating non-Turkic indigenous peoples along the way, and being partly replaced by other language families that have become prominent in the east, such as Mongolic languages on the Mongolian steppes, Indic languages in India, and Persian in post-Timurid Iran (reference required).\n\nLater Turkic peoples include the Karluks (mainly 8th century), Uyghurs, Kyrgyz, Oghuz (or Guz, Uz, Ghuzz, etc.) Turks, and Turkmens. As these peoples were founding states in the area between Mongolia and Transoxiana, they came into contact with Muslims, and most gradually adopted Islam. However, there were also some other groups of Turkic people who belonged to other religions, including Christians, Jews (see Khazars), Buddhists, and Zoroastrians.\n\nWhile the Karakhanid state remained in this territory until its conquest by Genghis Khan, the Turkmen group of tribes was formed around the core of westward Oghuz. The name \"Turkmen\" originally simply meant \"I am Turk\" in the language of the diverse tribes living between the Karakhanid and Samanid states. Thus, the ethnic consciousness among some, but not all Turkic tribes as \"Turkmens\" in the Islamic era came long after the fall of the non-Muslim Gokturk (and Eastern and Western) Khanates. The name \"Turk\" in the Islamic era became an identity that grouped Islamized Turkic tribes in contradistinction to Turkic tribes that were not Muslim (that mostly have been referred to as \"Tatar\"), such as the Nestorian Naiman (which became a major founding stock for the Muslim Kazakh nation) and Buddhist Tuvans. Thus the ethnonym \"Turk\" for the diverse Islamized Turkic tribes somehow served the same function as the name \"Tajik\" did for the diverse Iranian peoples who converted to Islam and adopted Persian as their lingua-franca. Both names first and foremost labeled Muslimness, and to a lesser extent, common language and ethnic culture. Long after the departure of the Turkmens from Transoxonia towards the Karakum and Caucasus, consciousness associated with the name \"Turk\" still remained, as Chagatay and Timurid period Central Asia was called \"Turkestan\" and the Chagatay language called \"Turki\", even though the people only referred to themselves as \"Mughals\", \"Sarts\", \"Taranchis\" and \"Tajiks\". This name \"Turk\", was not commonly used by most groups of the Kypchak branch, such as the Kazakhs, although they are closely related to the Oghuz (Turkmens) and Karluks (Karakhanids, Sarts, Uyghurs). Neither did Bulgars (Kazan Tatars, Chuvash) and non-Muslim Turkic groups (Tuvans, Yakuts, Yugurs) come close to adopting the ethnonym \"Turk\" in its Islamic Era sense. Among the Karakhanid period Turkmen tribes rose the Atabeg Seljuq of the Kinik tribe, whose dynasty grew into a great Islamic empire stretching from India to Anatolia.\n\nTurkic soldiers in the army of the Abbasid caliphs emerged as the \"de facto\" rulers of much of the Muslim Middle East (apart from Syria and North Africa) from the 13th century. The Oghuz and other tribes captured and dominated various countries under the leadership of the Seljuk dynasty, and eventually captured the territories of the Abbasid dynasty and the Byzantine Empire.\n\nMeanwhile, the Kyrgyz and Uyghurs were struggling with one another and with the Chinese Empire. The Kyrgyz people ultimately settled in the region now referred to as Kyrgyzstan. The Batu hordes conquered the Volga Bulgars in what is today Tatarstan and Kypchaks in what is now Southern Russia, following the westward sweep of the Mongols in the 13th century. Other Bulgars settled in Europe in the 7-8th centuries, but were assimilated by the Slavs, giving the name to the Bulgarians and the Slavic Bulgarian language.\n\nIt was under Seljuq suzerainty that numerous Turkmen tribes, especially those that came through the Caucasus via Azerbaijan, acquired fiefdoms (beyliks) in newly conquered areas of Anatolia, Iraq and even the Levant. Thus, the ancestors of the founding stock of the modern Turkish nation were most closely related to the Oghuz Turkmen groups that settled in the Caucasus and later became the Azerbaijani nation.\n\nBy early modern times, the name \"Turkestan\" has several definitions:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2799269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2799269", "title": "Valladolid debate", "text": "Valladolid debate\n\nThe Valladolid debate (1550–1551) was the first moral debate in European history to discuss the rights and treatment of a colonized people by colonizers. Held in the Colegio de San Gregorio, in the Spanish city of Valladolid, it was a moral and theological debate about the colonization of the Americas, its justification for the conversion to Catholicism, and more specifically about the relations between the European settlers and the natives of the New World. It consisted of a number of opposing views about the way natives were to be integrated into colonial life, their conversion to Christianity, and their rights and obligations.\n\nA controversial theologian, Dominican friar and Bishop of Chiapas Bartolomé de las Casas, argued that the Amerindians were free men in the natural order despite their practice of human sacrifices and other such customs, deserving the same consideration as the colonizers. Opposing this view were a number of scholars and priests, including humanist scholar Juan Ginés de Sepúlveda, who argued that the human sacrifice of innocents, cannibalism, and other such \"crimes against nature\" were unacceptable and should be suppressed by any means possible including war.\n\nAlthough both sides claimed to have won the disputation, there is no clear record supporting either interpretation. The affair is considered one of the earliest examples of moral debates about colonialism, human rights of colonized peoples, and international relations. In Spain, it served to establish Las Casas as the primary, though controversial defender of the Indians. He and others contributed to the passing of the New Laws of 1542, which limited the encomienda system further. Though they did not fully reverse the situation, the laws achieved considerable improvement in the treatment of Indians and consolidated their rights granted by earlier laws. More importantly, the debate reflected a concern for morality and justice in 16th-century Spain that only surfaced in other colonial powers centuries later.\n\nSpain's colonization and conquest of the Americas inspired an intellectual debate especially regarding the compulsory Christianization of the Indians. Bartolomé de las Casas, a Dominican friar from the School of Salamanca and member of the growing Christian Humanist movement, worked for years to oppose forced conversions and to expose the treatment of natives in the \"encomiendas\". His efforts influenced the papal bull \"Sublimis Deus\" of 1537 (which established the status of the Indians as rational beings). More significantly, Las Casas was instrumental in the passage of the New Laws (the Laws of the Indies) of 1542, which were designed to end the encomienda system.\n\nMoved by Las Casas and others, in 1550 the King of Spain Charles V ordered further military expansion to cease until the issue was investigated. The King assembled a \"Junta\" (Jury) of eminent doctors and theologians to hear both sides and to issue a ruling on the controversy. Las Casas represented one side of the debate. His position found some support from the monarchy, which wanted to control the power of the encomenderos, and within the Catholic Church. Representing the other side was Juan Ginés de Sepúlveda, whose arguments were used as support by colonists and landowners who benefited from the system.\n\nThough Las Casas tried to bolster his position by recounting his experiences with the encomienda system's mistreatment of the Indians, the debate remained on largely theoretical grounds. Sepúlveda took a more secular approach than Las Casas, basing his arguments largely on Aristotle and the Humanist tradition to assert that some Indians were subject to enslavement due to their inability to govern themselves, and could be subdued by war if necessary. Las Casas objected, arguing that Aristotle's definition of barbarian and natural slave did not apply to the Indians, all of whom were fully capable of reason and should be brought to Christianity without force or coercion.\n\nSepúlveda put forward many of the arguments from his Latin dialogue \"Democrates alter sive de justi belli causis\", to assert that the barbaric traditions of certain Indians justified waging war against them. Civilized peoples, according to Sepúlveda, were obliged to punish such vicious practices as idolatry, sodomy, and cannibalism. Wars had to be waged \"in order to uproot crimes that offend nature\". This was an obligation to which every Spaniard, whether secular or religious, had to conform.\n\nSepúlveda issued four main justifications for just war against certain Indians. First, their natural condition deemed them unable to rule themselves, and it was the responsibility of the Spaniards to act as masters. Second, Spaniards were entitled to prevent cannibalism as a crime against nature. Third, the same went for human sacrifice. Fourth, it was important to convert Indians to Christianity. \n\nLas Casas was prepared for part of his opponent's discourse, since he, upon hearing about the existence of Sepúlveda's \"Democrates Alter\", had written in the late 1540s his own Latin work, the \"Apologia\", which aimed at debunking his opponent's theological arguments by arguing that Aristotle's definition of the \"barbarian\" and the natural slave did not apply to the Indians, who were fully capable of reason and should be brought to Christianity without force.\n\nLas Casas pointed out that every individual was obliged by international law to prevent the innocent from being treated unjustly. He also cited Saint Augustine and Saint John Chrysostom, both of whom had opposed the use of force to bring others to Christian faith. Human sacrifice was wrong, but it would be better to avoid war by any means possible.\n\nThe arguments presented by Las Casas and Sepúlveda to the junta of Valladolid remained abstract, with both sides clinging to their opposite theories that relied on similar, if not the same, theoretical authorities, which were interpreted to suit their respective arguments.\n\nIn the end, both parties declared that they had won the debate, but neither received the desired outcome. Las Casas saw no end to Spanish wars of conquest in the New World, and Sepúlveda did not see the New Laws' restricting of the power of the encomienda system overturned. The debate cemented Las Casas's position as the lead defender of the Indians in the Spanish Empire, and further weakened the encomienda system. However, it did not substantially alter Spanish treatment of the Indians.\n\nIn 1938 the story of the German writer Reinhold Schneider \"Las Kasas and Charles V\" (\"Las Casas vor Karl V. Szenen aus der Konquistadorenzeit\") was published.\n\nIn 1992 the Valladolid debate became an inspiration source for Jean-Claude Carrière who published the novel \"La Controverse de Valladolid\" (\"Dispute in Valladolid\"). The novel was filmed for television under the same name. The director — Jean-Danielle Veren, Jean-Pierre Marielle played Las Casas, Jean-Louis Trintignant acted as Sepúlveda.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53668775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53668775", "title": "Victoria Bateman", "text": "Victoria Bateman\n\nVictoria N. Bateman is a British feminist economist and academic, specialising in macroeconomics and British economic history. She is a fellow in economics at Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.\n\nBateman read economics at Cambridge University, before receiving her masters and doctorate degrees from Oxford. She is known for her naked protest against the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, (Brexit). She is an advocate of the recognition by economists of the economic value of the sex trade and the right of women to earn their living by prostitution. She famously posed nude for a life size portrait by Anthony Connolly.\n\n"}
{"id": "54672678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54672678", "title": "Volodymyr Ikonnikov", "text": "Volodymyr Ikonnikov\n\nVolodymyr Ikonnikov (, ) was Ukrainian historian of the Imperial Russia specializing in study of the Russian historiography.\nIkonnikov was an academician of both the Saint Petersburg Academy of Sciences and the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences, a professor and a dean of the History and Philology faculty of the Kiev University.\n\nBorn in Kiev, in 1852-1861 Ikonnikov studied in Kiev Kadet School on state funds. In 1861-1865 he studied at the Kiev University History and Philology faculty at the department of Russian history. Soon after his graduation, Ikonnikov was teaching history in Kiev Military Gymnasium and history of general literature in Kiev Institute for Noble Maidens. In 1866-67 he was a privatdozent at Kharkiv University. In 1867 Ikonnikov was teaching history and philology in several gymnasiums in Odessa. Here in Odessa University in 1867 he defended his dissertation \"Maksim Grek. Historical and literary research\" () receiving a magister degree in Russian history. In 1869 he defended his doctorate dissertation at the same university \"Research experience of cultural significance of Byzantium Empire in Russian History (). After that Ikonnikov headed the department of Russian history in the Kiev University.\n\nIn 1870 he received a title of professor. In 1873-1913 Ikonnikov was an acting chief editor of \"Universitetskie izvestiya\" (University News) published by Kiev University. Between 1877 to 1887 he served as a dean of the Kiev University History and Philology faculty. In 1874-1877 and 1893-1895 Ikonnikov was a chairman of Nestor the Chronicler Historical Society. In 1878-1889 he was a director of Kiev Higher Women Courses. In 1904 Ikonnikov was placed in charge of the Provisional Commission in research of ancient documents in Kiev.\n\nHe is a brother of the Kiev Governorate architect Mikhail Ikonnikov and a father-in-law of Vsevolod Petriv.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1550314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1550314", "title": "Walter the Chancellor", "text": "Walter the Chancellor\n\nWalter the Chancellor (also known as Galterius cancellarius, the Latinized form of his French name, Gautier) was a French or Norman crusader and author of the twelfth century. \n\nHe served as Chancellor of the Principality of Antioch and wrote \"Bella Antiochena\" (\"Wars of Antioch\" or \"The Antiochene Wars\") about the history of the principality from 1114–1122, mostly during the reign of Roger of Salerno. He was certainly present at the Battle of Ager Sanguinis in 1119, in which Roger was defeated and killed by Ilghazi, and Walter was probably taken into captivity for a brief time in Aleppo. Nothing more is known about him. Even his place of origin is uncertain, as the editorial introduction of \"Recueil des Historiens des Croisades\" points out. Some authors claim on the basis of \"gallicisms\" in his Latin that he is of French origin, while others cite the fact that he is in the party, and writing a history of, the Norman Roger of Salerno. The text itself gives no indication.\n\nThe \"Bella Antiochena\" was written in two parts, the first sometime before Ager Sanguinis in 1119, and the second probably around 1122, or in stages from 1119 to 1122. The work was published in Jacques Paul Migne's Patrologia Latina in 1853, the Recueil des Historiens des Croisades in 1895, and by H. Hagenmeyer in 1896. Walter was used as a source by the later 12th-century chronicler William of Tyre. \n\n"}
{"id": "38497833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38497833", "title": "Withering away of the state", "text": "Withering away of the state\n\n\"Withering away of the state\" is a Marxist concept coined by Friedrich Engels referring to the idea that with realization of the ideals of socialism the social institution of a state will eventually become obsolete and disappear as the society will be able to govern itself without the state and its coercive enforcement of the law.\n\nThe phrase was coined by Friedrich Engels in part 3, chapter 2, of \"Anti-Dühring\":\nAnother related quote from Engels comes from \"Origins of the Family, Private Property, and the State\":\nAlthough Engels first introduced the idea of the withering away of the state, he attributed the underlying concept to Karl Marx, and other Marxist theorists—including Vladimir Lenin—would later expand on it. According to this concept of the withering away of the state, eventually a communist society will no longer require coercion to induce individuals to behave in a way that benefits the society. Such a society would occur after a temporary period of the dictatorship of the proletariat.\n\nIt proceeds from the concept of the transformation of the state in the previous stage of society called socialism. In socialism, Engels posits that—similar to the arguments made by Henri de Saint-Simon before him—in a socialist society public organization would become primarily concerned with technical issues such as the optimal allocation of resources and determination of production as opposed to drafting and enforcing laws and thus the traditional state functions would gradually become irrelevant and unnecessary for the functioning of society. Engels argued that the state transforms itself from a \"government of people, but the administration of things\" and thus would not be a state in the traditional sense of the term.\n\nThis scenario depended on Marx's view of coercive power as a tool of those who own the means of production, i.e. certain social classes (the bourgeoisie) and the capitalist state. In a communist society, the social classes would disappear and the means of production would have no single owner, hence such a stateless society will no longer require law and stateless communist society will develop.\n\nThe concept of the withering away of the state differentiates traditional Marxism from state socialism (which accepted the retention of the institution of the state) and anti-statist anarchism (which demanded the immediate abolition of the state with no perceived need for any \"temporary\" post-revolutionary institution of the state).\n\nIn the Soviet Marxism of the Soviet Union, Lenin supported the idea of the withering away of the state as seen in his \"The State and Revolution\" (1917). Joseph Stalin's government mentioned it occasionally, but did not believe the world was yet in the advanced stage of development where the state could wither away. He believed at least in the short term that the state had to have enough power to strike back against those elements seeking to derail the ultimate victory of communism. Thus, the Stalin-era Soviet Union marginalized the notion of the withering of the state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54619673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54619673", "title": "Yopie Prins", "text": "Yopie Prins\n\nYopie Prins is Irene Butter Collegiate Professor of English and Comparative Literature at the University of Michigan. Her research includes classical reception, comparative literature, historical poetics, lyric theory, translation studies and Victorian poetry.\n\nPrins studied ancient Greek at Swarthmore College, and English literature at Newnham College, Cambridge. She spent a year at the University of Amsterdam as a Fulbright Scholar, before gaining a PhD in Comparative Literature from Princeton in 1991. She taught for four years at Oberlin College before joining the faculty of the University of Michigan. Having taught at the University of Michigan since 1994, she is currently the Chair of the Department of Comparative Literature there. She was the vice president of the American Association for Comparative Literature from 2013 to 2015, and president from 2015 to 2016.\n\nPrins is married to the American composer Michael Daugherty.\n\n"}
{"id": "36682929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36682929", "title": "Île aux Basques", "text": "Île aux Basques\n\nÎle aux Basques is a Canadian island located in the lower estuary of the St. Lawrence River, about north of Trois-Pistoles, in Les Basques Regional County Municipality of the Bas-Saint-Laurent region of Quebec. The island is part of the municipality of Notre-Dame-des-Neiges.\n\nIt is, since its acquisition by Société Provancher in 1929, a protected area as a sanctuary for migratory birds. From 1584 until about 1637 it was occupied several times by the Basques, after whom the island takes its name. Both the lack of space in the Basque Country and the abundance of whales in the St. Lawrence River led to the arrival of the Basque fishermen to the island. The Basque Country was divided between the Crown of France and the Crown of Spain since the 1512 Spanish invasion of the Kingdom of Navarre.\n\nA series of wars and invasions led seafarers to explore further inland from the Atlantic Ocean for seals, porpoises and whales. The Basques also practiced trade with the Iroquois and Algonquins, one of the first places where the legacy of these two cultures can be seen. These facts were confirmed by archaeological excavations in the 1990s at various locations on the island.\n\nThe island is home to Basque and Native American sites, four of which are situated along its southern shore. These four sites, or shore camps, resemble similar sites scattered along the shores of the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Shore camps not only gave fishermen and whalers a chance to replenish their supplies of firewood and fresh water, but they also provided space to dry their catch of fish. Whalers also used shore camps to process whales and render the blubber into oil. Four single-hearth Basque ovens used in this process have been discovered on the island; two of these ovens were found at l'Anse à la Baleine, the third and fourth at l'Anse Qui Pue and l'Anse d'En Bas, respectively. In the oven at la Baleine, archaeologists discovered evidence of charred blubber and combustion, as well as pieces of terra cotta roof tiles and fragments of European crockery. In addition, archaeologists found two glass beads alongside the Basque artifacts at la Baleine; one turquoise-colored and the other white, both matched descriptions of types of beads known to be traded by Europeans to native peoples. Native American pottery shards and other Basque items have also been found at the other archaeological sites spread out along the southern shore, confirming that the Basques and native peoples frequented these sites at the same time.\n\nThe last known documentation of Basque presence on the island was made by Jesuit Paul Lejeune in 1637. Although the exact time the Basques stopped frequenting the island is unknown, the 1664 writings of another Jesuit, Father Henri Nouvel, confirm that the Basque occupation of the island bearing their name was by that time a thing of the past. He observed, \"It [the island] goes by the name of the Isle aux Basques, on account of the whaling which the Basques did there in bygone days. I took pleasure in visiting the large ovens they had built to make their oil, about which we can still see the great ribs of Whales they killed.\"\n\nThe island is long and wide, covering an area of . Its highest point has an elevation of in the center of the island. It is located in the physiographic region of the Appalachia, on the south bank of the St. Lawrence opposite the city of Trois-Pistoles, about east of Quebec City.\n\nÎle aux Basques was designated as a National Historic Site of Canada.\n"}
