{"id": "1253192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1253192", "title": "Abortion–breast cancer hypothesis", "text": "Abortion–breast cancer hypothesis\n\nThe abortion–breast cancer hypothesis posits that having an induced abortion can increase the risk of getting breast cancer. This hypothesis is at odds with mainstream scientific opinion and is contradicted by major medical professional organizations. In early pregnancy, hormone levels increase, leading to breast growth. The hypothesis proposes that if this process is interrupted by an abortion, then more immature cells could be left behind, and that these immature cells could increase the risk of breast cancer over time.\n\nThe abortion–breast cancer hypothesis has been the subject of extensive scientific inquiry, and the scientific community has concluded that abortion does not cause breast cancer and that breast cancer should not be a concern for women who are having a miscarriage or considering having an abortion. This consensus is supported by major medical bodies, including the World Health Organization, the U.S. National Cancer Institute, the American Cancer Society, the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, the German Cancer Research Center, and the Canadian Cancer Society.\n\nSome anti-abortion activists have continued to advance a discredited causal link between abortion and breast cancer. In the United States, they have advanced state legislation that in several states requires health care providers to present abortion as a cause of breast cancer when counseling women who are seeking abortion. This political intervention culminated when the George W. Bush administration altered the National Cancer Institute website to suggest that abortion might cause breast cancer. In response to public concern over this intervention, the NCI convened a 2003 workshop bringing together over 100 experts on the issue. This workshop concluded that while some studies reported a statistical correlation between breast cancer and abortion, the strongest scientific evidence from large prospective cohort studies demonstrates that abortion is not associated with an increase in breast cancer risk, and that the positive findings were likely due to response bias.\n\nThe ongoing promotion of a link between abortion and breast cancer is seen by others as part of the anti-abortion \"woman-centered\" strategy against abortion. Anti-abortion groups maintain they are providing information necessary for legally required informed consent, a concern shared by some politically conservative politicians. The abortion–breast cancer issue remains the subject of political controversy.\n\nMajor medical organizations which have analyzed data on abortion and breast cancer have uniformly concluded that abortion does not cause breast cancer. These organizations include the World Health Organization, the U.S. National Cancer Institute, the American Cancer Society, the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, the German Cancer Research Center, and the Canadian Cancer Society.\n\n\nJoel Brind, a faculty member at Baruch College in the Department of Natural Sciences, is the primary advocate of an abortion–breast cancer (\"ABC\") link. Brind is strongly anti-abortion and began lobbying politicians with the claim that abortion caused breast cancer in the early 1990s. Brind found that his lobbying efforts were not taken seriously because he had not published his findings in the peer-reviewed medical literature. He therefore collaborated with two anti-abortion physicians and a statistician to publish a 1996 article in the \"Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health\", arguing that induced abortion was a risk factor for breast cancer. The statistician who collaborated with Brind later stated of their findings: \"I have some doubts. I don't think the issue has been resolved. When we were talking about the conclusions, he [Brind] wanted to make the strongest statements. I tried to temper them a little bit, but Dr. Brind is very adamant about his opinion.\"\n\nBrind's paper was criticized in the \"Journal of the National Cancer Institute\" for ignoring the role of response bias and for a \"blurring of association with causation.\" The amount of attention the study received prompted a cautionary editorial by a JECH editor. With the appearance of larger studies contradicting Brind's finding, Brind failed to convince the scientific community that abortion caused breast cancer. In 2003, Brind was invited to the NCI workshop on abortion and breast cancer, where he was the only one to formally dissent from the workshop's finding that there is no link between the two. Brind blames the lack of support for his findings on a conspiracy, arguing that the NCI and other major medical organizations are engaged in a \"cover-up\" for the purpose of \"protecting the abortion industry\".\n\nIn early pregnancy, levels of estrogen, progesterone, estradiol increase, leading to breast growth in preparation for lactation. Proponents speculate that if this process is interrupted by an abortion or miscarriage—before full maturity (differentiation) in the third trimester—then more immature cells could be left than there were prior to the pregnancy. These immature cells could then be exposed to carcinogens and hormones over time, resulting in a greater potential risk of breast cancer. This mechanism was first proposed and explored in rat studies conducted in the 1980s.\n\nBreast tissue contains many lobes (segments) and these contain lobules which are groups of breast cells. There are four types of lobules:\n\n\nDuring early pregnancy, type 1 lobules quickly become type 2 lobules because of changes in estrogen and progesterone levels. Maturing into type 3 and then reaching full differentiation as type 4 lobules requires an increase of human placental lactogen (hPL) which occurs in the last few months of pregnancy. According to the abortion–breast cancer hypothesis, if an abortion were to interrupt this sequence then it could leave a higher ratio of type 2 lobules than existed prior to the pregnancy. Russo and Russo have shown that mature breast cells have more time for DNA repair with longer cell cycles, accounting for the slightly reduced risk of breast cancer for parous women against the baseline risk for women who have never conceived and those who have conceived and terminated their pregnancies.\n\nLater on, Russo \"et al.\" found that placental human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) induces the synthesis of inhibin by the mammary epithelium. Bernstein \"et al.\" independently observed a reduced breast cancer risk when women were injected with hCG for weight loss or infertility treatment. Contrary to the ABC hypothesis, Michaels \"et al.\" hypothesize since hCG plays a role in cellular differentiation and may activate apoptosis, as levels of hCG increase early on in human pregnancy, \"an incomplete pregnancy of short duration might impart the benefits of a full-term pregnancy and thus reduce the risk of breast cancer.\"\n\nThe first study involving statistics on abortion and breast cancer was a broad study in 1957 examining common cancers in Japan. The researchers were cautious about drawing any conclusions from their unreliable methodologies. During the 1960s several studies by Brian MacMahon \"et al.\" in Europe and Asia touched on a correlation between abortion and breast cancer. Their 1973 paper published in the \"Journal of the National Cancer Institute\" inaccurately concluded that \"where a relationship was observed, abortion was associated with increased, not decreased, risk.\" Research relevant to the current ABC discussion focuses on more recent large cohort studies, a few meta-analyses, many case-control studies, and several early experiments with rats.\n\nRusso & Russo from the Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia conducted a study in 1980 examining the proposed correlation between abortion and breast cancer. While analysing the effects of the carcinogen 7,12-Dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA) on the DNA labeling index (DNA-LI) in terminal end buds (TEBs), terminal ducts (TDs) and alveolar buds (ABs) of Sprague-Dawley rats in various stages of reproductive development, they found that rats who had interrupted pregnancies had no noticeable increase in risk for cancer. However, they did find that pregnancy and lactation provided a protective measure against various forms of benign lesions, such as hyperplastic alveolar nodules and cysts. While results did suggest that rats who had interrupted pregnancies might be subject to \"similar or even higher incidence of benign lesions\" than virgin rats, there was no evidence to suggest that abortion would result in a higher incidence of carcinogenesis. A more thorough examination of the phenomenon was conducted in 1982, confirming the results. A later study in 1987 further explained their previous findings. After differentiation of the mammary gland resulting from a full-term pregnancy of the rat, the rate of cell division decreases and the cell cycle length increases, allowing more time for DNA repair.\n\nDespite the fact that the Russos' studies found similar risk rates between virgin and pregnancy interrupted rats, their research would be used to support the contention that abortion created a greater risk of breast cancer for the next twenty years. However, because rats do not exhibit naturally occurring breast cancer, the extrapolation of these results to human abortion and breast cancer is viewed as dubious.\n\nThe results of prospective cohort studies on the relationship between abortion and breast cancer have been consistently negative. Such studies are considered more reliable than retrospective studies and case-control studies. The positive association between abortion and breast cancer risk observed in case-control studies is accounted for by recall bias.\n\nIn 1996, Brind et al. published a meta-analysis of 23 studies which reported a positive association existed between induced abortion and breast cancer risk. The authors estimated the relative risk of breast cancer among women who had had an induced abortion to be 1.3, compared to women who had not had an abortion. It was criticized by other researchers for multiple reasons, including allegations that it failed to account for publication bias (positive studies tend to be more likely to be published). The meta-analysis was also criticized because the studies it included were almost all case-control studies, which are susceptible to recall bias, and for which it is difficult to select an appropriate control group.\n\nIn 1997, Wingo et al. reviewed 32 studies on the abortion-breast cancer relationship and concluded that the results of studies on this subject were too inconsistent to allow for definitive conclusions, for either induced or spontaneous abortions.\n\nA 2004 analysis of data from 53 studies involving 83,000 women with breast cancer reported no increased risk among women who had had either an induced or spontaneous abortion. The relative risk of breast cancer for women who had a spontaneous abortion in this analysis was 0.98, and that for induced abortion was 0.93.\n\nA 2015 systematic review and meta-analysis of prospective studies found insufficient evidence to support an association between induced or spontaneous abortion and an increased risk of breast cancer.\n\nBy the late 1980s, national politicians recognized that a focus on reducing access to abortion was not a winning political strategy. Some anti-abortion activists grew more aggressive and violent in the face of political abandonment, culminating with the murder of Dr. David Gunn in 1993 and the passage of the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act in 1994. With direct action discredited, anti-abortion organizations, including the National Right to Life Committee, came to the forefront of the movement. These focused on legal tactics, including lobbying against late-term abortions and access to mifepristone and demanding legislation based on the purported ABC link. More recently, anti-abortion organizations have turned to lobbying to increase obstacles to abortion, such as mandated counseling, waiting periods, and parental notification, and some feel that anti-abortion advocates treat ABC as simply another tactic in their campaign against abortion. There have been ongoing and incremental legal challenges to abortion in the United States by anti-abortion groups. In 2005, a Canadian anti-abortion organization put up billboards in Alberta with large pink ribbons and the statement: \"Stop the Cover-Up,\" in reference to the ABC hypothesis. The Canadian Breast Cancer Foundation was concerned by the misrepresentation of the state of scientific knowledge on the subject.\n\nThe continued focus on the ABC hypothesis by anti-abortion groups has fostered a confrontational political environment. Anti-abortion advocates and scientists alike have responded with criticisms. The claims by anti-abortion advocates are sometimes referred to as pseudoscience.\n\nDuring the late 1990s, several members of the United States Congress became involved in the ABC issue. In a 1998 hearing on cancer research, U.S. Representative Tom Coburn accused the National Cancer Institute of misleading the public by selectively releasing data. In 1999, shortly after the House debated FDA approval of the abortion drug mifepristone, U.S. Representative Dave Weldon wrote a \"Dear Colleague\" letter, enclosing an article from John Kindley. In it, Weldon expressed concern that the majority of studies indicated a possible ABC link and that politicization was \"preventing vital information from being given to women.\"\n\n, abortion counseling materials in Alaska, Mississippi, Texas, West Virginia, and Kansas state that the data relationship between abortion and breast cancer are inconclusive, while Minnesota materials report no link. Similar legislation requiring notification has also been introduced in 14 other states. An editor for the American Journal of Public Health expressed concern that these bills propose warnings that do not agree with established scientific findings.\n\nBioethicist Jacob M. Appel argues that the mandatory disclosure statutes might be unconstitutional on \"rational basis\" grounds. Childbirth is significantly more dangerous than abortion, data that is not required in any disclosure law but which is necessary for a meaningful understanding of risks. According to Appel, \"[i]f the roughly fifty million abortions that have occurred in the United States since \"Roe v. Wade\" had all ended in full-term deliveries, approximately five hundred additional women would have died during childbirth.\"\n\nIn May 2017, President Donald Trump appointed Charmaine Yoest, an anti-abortion activist and proponent of the abortion-breast cancer link, to the post of assistant secretary for public affairs in the Department of Health And Human Services.\n\nThe National Cancer Institute (NCI) has been a target of the anti-abortion movement for the conclusions presented on its website. A report from the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform found that in November 2002 the Bush administration had altered the NCI website. The previous NCI analysis had concluded that, while some question regarding an association between abortion and breast cancer existed prior to the mid-1990s, a number of large and well-regarded studies had resolved the issue in the negative. The Bush administration removed this analysis and replaced it with the following:\n\nThis alteration, which suggested that there was scientific uncertainty on the ABC issue, prompted an editorial in \"The New York Times\" describing it as an \"egregious distortion\" and a letter to the Secretary of Health and Human Services from members of Congress. In response to the alteration the NCI convened a three-day consensus workshop entitled \"Early Reproductive Events and Breast Cancer\" on 24–26 February 2003. The workshop concluded that induced abortion does not increase a woman's risk of breast cancer, and that the evidence for this had been well established. Afterwards, the director of epidemiology research for the American Cancer Society stated, \"[t]his issue has been resolved scientifically … This is essentially a political debate.\"\n\nBrind was the only attendee at the workshop to file a dissenting opinion as a minority report criticizing the conclusions. He contends the workshop evidence and findings were overly controlled by its organizers and that the time allotted was too short for a thorough review of the literature.\n\nIn January 2000, Amy Jo Kjolsrud (née Mattson), an anti-abortion counselor, sued the Red River Women's Clinic in Fargo, North Dakota, alleging false advertising. The suit, \"Kjolsrud v. MKB Management Corporation\", alleged that the clinic was misleading women by distributing a brochure quoting a National Cancer Institute fact sheet on the ABC hypothesis. The brochure stated:\n\nThe case was originally scheduled for 11 September 2001, but was delayed as a result of the terrorist attacks. On 25 March 2002, the trial began. After four days of testimony, Judge Michael McGuire ruled in favor of the clinic.\n\nLinda Rosenthal, an attorney from the Center for Reproductive Rights characterized the decision thus: \"[t]he judge rejected the abortion–breast cancer scare tactic. This ruling should put to rest the unethical, anti-choice scare tactic of using pseudo-science to harass abortion clinics and scare women.\" John Kindley, one of the lawyers representing Kjolsrud stated: \"I think most citizens, whether they are pro-choice or anti-abortion, believe in an individual's right to self-determination. They believe people shouldn't be misled and should be told about [procedural] risks, even if there is controversy over those risks.\" Kindley also wrote a 1998 Wisconsin Law Review article outlining the viability of medical malpractice lawsuits based upon not informing patients considering abortion about the ABC hypothesis.\n\nThe decision was appealed and on 23 September 2003 the North Dakota Supreme Court ruled that Kjolsrud did not have standing and affirmed the lower court ruling dismissing the action. The appeal noted that Kjolsrud \"concedes she had not read the brochures before filing her action.\" The appeal also noted that after the lawsuit was filed, the abortion clinic updated their brochure to the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "54747586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54747586", "title": "Abuse during childbirth", "text": "Abuse during childbirth\n\nAbuse during childbirth (or obstetric violence) is the neglect, physical abuse and lack of respect during childbirth. This treatment is regarded as a violation of the woman's rights. It also has the affect of preventing women from seeking pre-natal care and using other health care services. Abuse during childbirth is one form of violence against women.\n\nInvestigations into the prevalence of these practices have been conducted by the World Health Organization. Their studies demonstrate that this is a global problem. Women experience disrespectful, abusive or neglectful treatment during their childbirth when the birth occurs in medical and health facilities. The abusive relationship and trust between women and health providers can create a great reluctance to obtain medical assistance during birth. Disrespectful and abusive treatment can be experienced during pregnancy. During childbirth, a woman is very vulnerable and cannot protect herself. The results of this abuse can have very negative consequences for the infant and the mother.\n\nWHO has found situations and circumstances where health facilities have participated in physical abuse, the withholding of pain medication, disrespect, humiliation, lack of confidentiality, lack of privacy, lack of informed consent, forced sterilization, refusing to be admitted to the facility, neglect during the birth, involuntary medical procedures, lack of confidentiality, withholding medical information and detention of the women at the facility because she is unable to pay the facility. In addition, the neglect during childbirth has resulted in life-threatening complications that could have responded to appropriate medical intervention.\n\nSome women are more likely to experience abuse during childbirth. Adolescents, migrant women, women infected with HIV, and ethnic minority women are more likely than others to receive abuse.\n\nThe term \"obstetric violence\" is particularly used in Latin American countries, where the law prohibits such behavior. Such laws exist in several countries, including Argentina, Puerto Rico and Venezuela.\n\nSome sources refer to North American obstetricians and gynecologists, especially between the 1950s and 1980s, practicing what was called \"the husband's stitch\": placing extra stitches in the woman's vagina after the episiotomy or natural tearing, supposedly to increase the husband's future sexual pleasure and often causing long-term pain and discomfort to the woman. However, there is no proof that such a practice was widespread in North America, but mentions of it frequently appear in studies about episiotomy, also in other American countries such as Brazil.\n"}
{"id": "3435222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3435222", "title": "Afro-Guyanese", "text": "Afro-Guyanese\n\nAfro-Guyanese people are inhabitants of Guyana who are of Sub-Saharan African descent, generally descended from slaves brought to the Guianas to work on sugar plantations.\n\nAfter the abolition of slavery in the British Empire, Afro-Guyanese people came together to develop small villages. They were not given land to compensate for their labor, unlike future immigrant groups. When planters made land or passage home available to East Indians as part of the terms of indentured labour in the late 19th century, given that they had denied land to the Africans as emancipated slaves several decades earlier, it created tension among the ethnic groups. \n\nBy the early twentieth century, the majority of the urban population of the country was Afro-Guyanese. Many Afro-Guyanese people living in villages had migrated to the towns in search of work. Until the 1930s, Afro-Guyanese people, especially those of mixed descent, comprised the bulk of the non-white professional class. During the 1930s, as Indo-Guyanese began to enter the middle class in large numbers, they began to compete with Afro-Guyanese for professional positions.\n\nThe Dutch West India Company turned to the importation of African slaves, who rapidly became a key element in the colonial economy. By the 1660s, the slave population numbered about 2,500; the number of indigenous people was estimated at 50,000, most of whom had retreated into the vast hinterland. Although African slaves were considered an essential element of the colonial economy, their working conditions were brutal. The mortality rate was high, and the dismal conditions led to more than half a dozen slave rebellions.\n\nThe most famous slave uprising, the Berbice Slave Uprising, began in February 1763. On two plantations on the Canje River in Berbice, slaves rebelled, taking control of the region. As plantation after plantation fell to the slaves, the European population fled; eventually only half of the whites who had lived in the colony remained. Led by Cuffy (now the national hero of Guyana), the African freedom fighters came to number about 3,000 and threatened European control over the Guianas. The freedom fighters were defeated with the assistance of troops from neighboring French and British colonies and from Europe.\n\nColonial life was changed radically by the demise of slavery. Although the international slave trade was abolished in the British Empire in 1807, slavery itself continued. In what is known as the Demerara rebellion of 1823 10–13,000 slaves in Demerara-Essequibo rose up against their masters. Although the rebellion was easily crushed, the momentum for abolition remained, and by 1838 total emancipation had been effected. The end of slavery had several ramifications. Most significantly, many former slaves rapidly departed the plantations. Some ex-slaves moved to towns and villages, feeling that field labor was degrading and inconsistent with freedom, but others pooled their resources to purchase the abandoned estates of their former masters and created village communities. Establishing small settlements provided the new Afro-Guyanese communities an opportunity to grow and sell food, an extension of a practice under which slaves had been allowed to keep the money that came from the sale of any surplus produce. The emergence of an independent-minded Afro-Guyanese peasant class, however, threatened the planters' political power, inasmuch as the planters no longer held a near-monopoly on the colony's economic activity.\n\nEmancipation also resulted in the introduction of new ethnic and cultural groups into British Guiana. The departure of the Afro-Guyanese from the sugar plantations soon led to labor shortages. After unsuccessful attempts throughout the 19th century to attract Portuguese workers from Madeira, the estate owners were again left with an inadequate supply of labor. The Portuguese had not taken to plantation work and soon moved into other parts of the economy, especially retail business, where they became competitors with the new Afro-Guyanese middle class. More late, emigrated many East Indian for work in the lands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32085069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32085069", "title": "Afro-Salvadoran", "text": "Afro-Salvadoran\n\nAfro-Salvadorans are only 0.13% the population descendants of the African population that were enslaved and shipped to El Salvador. Pardo people, are Pardo is the term that was used in colonial El Salvador to describe a Afro person of Indigenous, European, and African descent. Zaira Funes, of Central American Art & Beauty, is a great example. Because of their racial admixture\n\nA total of 10,000 African slaves were brought to El Salvador over the span of 75 years, starting around 1548. The country has no English Antillean (West Indian) or Garifuna populations, largely due to laws enacted in the 1930s, later revoked in the 1980s, banning the immigration of Africans and other races into the country. During the colonial period in Latin America, African slaves began mixing with the general population, resulting in the Mulatto (50% African and 50% European) and Zambo (50% African and 50% Amerindian) populations, and these in turn became the Quadroon (75% European and 25% African) and Cambujo (75% Amerindian and 25% African) populations. Many of these populations eventually became mainly Mestizo (50% European and 50% Amerindian).\n\nThe Quauhquechollan Cloth is a 16th-century cloth painting of the Nahua natives, and it includes what could be the very first African slave, still wearing his tribal costume, that arrived in El Salvador in 1528. However, most slaves began to be imported around the 1540s, following a royal decree officially freeing the indigenous peoples in 1548. Slaves came from the city of Santiago, in Guatemala, and were then distributed throughout Central America. Thus, many of the African people who worked in rural Salvadoran areas came from West Africa and usually, as in Guatemala's case, from Senegambia. Furthermore, according to various colonial archives about the province of San Salvador, the slaves brought by Portuguese merchants to Acajutla, in the Salvadoran town of Sonsonate, came from Angola and \"the Guineas\", while the slaves brought by the British merchants came from Mozambique. The slaves mainly reached to Sonsonate, where they were redistributed to the rest of San Salvador and Sonsonate.\n\nAfrican slaves arrived in the country by forced migration. The first slaves arrived in El Salvador to work in the haciendas, on cocoa and indigo mills, and in the gold mines. In San Salvador and San Miguel, many people had African slaves, some of whom were sent to wash gold in Honduran rivers, which was a major industry in the sixteenth century. In 1545, there was a noted sum of about 1,500 African slaves seeking auriferous sands in Honduras.\n\nThe intense richness of cocoa from Izalco made this one of the first regions to have significant numbers of African slaves due to the high demand for free labor. Thus arose several enclaves of African slaves in places such as the shores of \nLake Coatepeque and in the town of La Trinidad in Sonsonate, on the banks of the river Cenzúnat. The slaves that served as foremen on the plantations were usually highly trusted by their masters and were meant to intimidate the indigenous populations into submission.\n\nHowever, when cocoa was sold out, slaves were used in the cultivation of indigo, as several royal decrees had prohibited the use of Indian labor in the mills and the landowners needed labor. Consequently, there was considerable demand for African labor in the indigo mills, which was provided by the slave ships arriving on the north coast, usually transported by the Portuguese, who had supplier's license and a permit for introduction. Despite the later fall of the indigo industry, there was still a high demand for African labor due to investments for building Salvadoran cities.There were many slaves shipped into El Salvador.\n\nThus came the next wave of African slaves who worked in the construction industry, particularly to begin construction of the railway in the nineteenth century, and another wave possibly came in the early twentieth century. These migrations resulted in places with black populations like San Vicente (in Verapaz), colonial San Miguel (in San Alejo), Zacatecoluca, Chinameca, and Ahuachapan in which the Africans worked in the indigo industry. Similarly, African slaves, who were active participants in the revolt of 1932, were found in Atiquizaya. Also, Nejapa in San Salvador, was initially populated mulattoes.\n\nAlthough we know little about Afro-descendants of El Salvador (and Guatemala) working in the agricultural sector, several sources in the last third of the sixteenth century identified Afro-Salvadoran farming communities in the area surrounding the city of Sonsonante. Free people of African descent and slaves also worked on the production of indigo in the Pacific coast of Guatemala, and especially of El Salvador, eventually hosting over 200 indigo mills. People of African descent tended to work in the mills, usually supervising the Xiquilite (indigo) harvest. This process only lasted one to two months a year, making it unprofitable to maintain a permanent workforce where there were only enslaved workers to produce indigo. Some mill owners bought more slaves, some of which were needed to produce indigo, while others were used for other activities, such as tending to livestock.\n\nThe Afro-descendants eventually began to mix with the general population, transitioning from a purely African population to the mulatto and zambo populations. African men readily chose Amerindian women, so their children would be free. Laws were later passed banning the miscegenation of the African and Amerindian populations for this reason.\n\nMany mulattoes became landowners and enjoyed privileges by being estate owners, often to the detriment of the natives. Several places were populated with mulatto families as they settled in prosperous neighborhoods, like the neighborhood of Angel in La Trinidad of Sonsonate, and neighborhoods in San Vicente, San Miguel, and San Salvador. They also were integrated into indigenous neighborhoods and villages in estates and royal lands, and later became the Ladino peoples.\n\nIn the eighteenth century there was an increase in the population of African descent. In 1807, the mulattoes were the largest segment of the population in San Salvador, and in 1821 San Miguel reported 95% of its population as Afro-descendants.\n\nDuring the Intendencia, when few African people remained enslaved, there were regulations for slave owners, by order of the Crown to the Audiencia Real. For example, the regulations were enacted in San Miguel in September 1804. The cabildo of St. Vincent of Austria and La Trinidad, in Sonsonate, also enacted it. Slavery was banned in 1825, which made El Salvador the second country to abolish slavery in the Americas after Haiti. Numerous slaves from Belize fled to El Salvador, eventually mixing with the native population.\n\nIn the province of San Salvador, two thousand African peoples rose between November and December 1624, reaching militant troops from Comayagua (Honduras), to address the danger to the province. It was a contingent of indigenous and Ladino soldiers from Zacatecoluca and Apastepeque who captured the slaves, who were found in the banks of the Lempa River, in El Marquesado and the hill of the same name, as well as downstream near the mouth. All captured slaves were executed in San Salvador in 1625. This discouraged the importation of more African slaves.\n\nIn the late nineteenth century, the Catholic Church began to classify the population. In 1933, General Hernández Martinez, concerned about the events in Europe and following the example of Adolf Hitler, wrote a law called the Immigration Limitations, prohibiting the entry of Africans, Asians, Arabs, Gypsies, and many others into the country. He did urge, however, the immigration of north-central Europeans to whiten the population. These events further strengthened the Salvadoran denial of African roots and the Afro-descendants legally disappeared. However, that law was abolished by the new laws of 1959 and 1986.\n\nIn 1611, when the slave mulattoes helped defeat the Maroons of Tutale, Guatemala and El Salvador did not allow people of African descent to officially participate in militia companies. However, Africans and their descendants, even enslaved, had still fought with Spanish forces from time to time since the Conquest. Nevertheless, in the 1630s, a wave of attacks against Central America by Dutch, French, and British corsairs persuaded the Audiencia to enlist free people of African descent in regular militia companies, although segregated. In 1673 there were six Pardo companies in Guatemala and two in El Salvador. Soon there were Afro-militias in places like the Department of Sonsonate and Chiquimula, Guatemala.\n\nAfter early struggles against the corsairs, the militias requested exemption from Laborío Tribute, threatening not to serve otherwise. Because of that, several militia companies were temporarily exempted from this tax during the 1690s. The militants claimed this success and soon other requested Exemptions were granted. Then, the rest of the Afro-descendants also expected to be relieved of Laborío tribute, and prepared to face the authorities on the subject, rebelling against them. The most prominent example occurred in 1720 in San Salvador, where there had been a slave rebellion less than a century before. When the rumor that officials were preparing a new census for the Laborío Tribute Collection spread throughout the mulatto neighborhoods, at least 200 people took to the streets, threatening to burn the residence of the mayor. The rioters were persuaded to return home only after they were shown the list, barely containing 40 names. Spanish officials, who did not dare to continue the account, estimated that the actual number of residents in the city who were eligible for inclusion in the census was about 1,000\n\nonly 0.13 where Africans in apparent El Salvador has a dance called \"Negritos de Cacaopera\" (in Spanish: Black people from Caaopera). In Ereguayquin, in the Department of Usulután, there is the Tabales dance in honor of San Benito de Palermo, the black saint. In Izalco, Sonsonate, there is the Jeu Jeu dance; in Tacuba, Ahuachapán, there is the \"baile de la Negra Sebastiana\" (in Spanish: Dance of the black Sebastiana), demonstrating through its dancers the arrival of the Spanish with the Tlaxcalans and to El Salvador.\n\nOther the chanfaina dish; the canasto; the marimba instrument, some variants of witchcraft, and the black Christ statues scattered around the country. by non-indigenous José Simeón Cañas in 1823, the works of Salarrué, Francisco Gavidia, David J. Guzmán, and Benjamin Saul are also culturo-anthropological works that .\n\n\"Text from Afro-Pedea\"\n"}
{"id": "48435186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48435186", "title": "Americans living in Saudi Arabia", "text": "Americans living in Saudi Arabia\n\nThere is a sizable community of Americans living in Saudi Arabia. Most work in the oil industry and in the construction and financial sectors. Westerners, including Americans, move here for tax-free salaries and live in housing compounds with luxurious amenities, such as swimming pools and tennis courts which are sealed off from surrounding neighborhoods by high walls and gates which give Americans \"some security and privacy from the country's strict Islamic code on matters of dress and social mixing.\" \n\nThe largest American communities are in Riyadh, the headquarters of most multinational corporations in the kingdom, and in the Red Sea port city of Jiddah, a major commercial center. There are smaller American communities in the eastern cities of Dammam, Khobar and Dhahran, serving the local oil fields. Saudi Arabia also has some 5,000 U.S. military personnel.\n"}
{"id": "27137870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27137870", "title": "Bill Marsters", "text": "Bill Marsters\n\nWilliam Fatianga \"Bill\" Marsters (26 November 1923 – 26 August 2004) was the first president of the Cook Islands Christian Church (CICC), the largest religious denomination in the Cook Islands.\n\nMarsters was born on Palmerston Island. He is one of the 134 grandchildren of William Marsters, the English explorer who settled on the then-uninhabited Palmerston in 1863 with his three Polynesian wives. Bill Marsters was often referred to as \"Reverend Bill\" in order to distinguish him from the many other Marsters family members named after William Marsters.\n\nBill Marsters became the president of the CICC in 1968, when it was granted autonomy by an Act of the Parliament of the Cook Islands. He was a popular figure throughout the Cook Islands and administered the church from Rarotonga. Marsters was forced to resign from the church presidency in the late 1970s when he became involved in a scandal involving missing church funds. After his resignation, he returned to live in Palmerston Island, where he acted as the CICC pastor and the de facto head of the small island community of Marsters descendants.\n\nMarsters' actions as head of the CICC and his subsequent behaviour on Palmerston Island were the subject of severe criticism in a 1994 book in which an American journalist visited Palmerston Island and reported on conversations he had had with many of the residents of the island.\n\nMarsters and his wife were the parents of 12 children. Marsters died in 2004 in Auckland, New Zealand.\n"}
{"id": "27401251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27401251", "title": "Brazilian Labour Party (current)", "text": "Brazilian Labour Party (current)\n\nThe Brazilian Labour Party (, PTB) is a political party in Brazil founded in 1981 by Ivete Vargas, niece of President Getúlio Vargas. It claims the legacy of the historical PTB, although many historians reject this because the early version of PTB was a center-left party with wide support in the working class. Despite the name suggesting a left unionist labor party, the PTB joined a coalition which is by the centre/centre-right PSDB.\n\nIn 1981, the military dictatorship that had dismantled the historic PTB decided to revoke its legislation which enforced a two-party state. Ivete Vargas, niece of Getúlio Vargas, became the president of the party.\n\nSoon thereafter, a social democratic wing of the original PTB, led by Leonel Brizola, founded the Democratic Labour Party (PDT). This ensured that the PTB would abandon leftist politics, ultimately embracing centrist politics.\n\nIn 1989 a small dissident faction of moderate social democrats and populists abandoned PTB and founded the Labour Party of Brazil (PTdoB).\n\nAt the legislative elections of October 6, 2002, the party won 26 out of 513 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 3 out of 81 seats in the Senate.\n\nBefore the 2010 presidential election, PTB participated in the coalition government of former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, and did not field presidential candidates. The party, however, did not support Lula's candidate to succeed him, Dilma Rousseff (herself a former historical PTB/PDT member), as it embarked on PSDB José Serra's failed campaign for President.\n"}
{"id": "4275645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4275645", "title": "Cahuapanan languages", "text": "Cahuapanan languages\n\nThe Cahuapanan languages are a language family spoken in the Amazon basin of northern Peru. They include two languages, Chayahuita and Jebero, which are spoken by more than 11,300 people. Chayahuita is spoken by most of that number, but Jebero is almost extinct.\n\n\n\"Glottolog\" classifies the extinct language Maynas as close to Chawi.\n\n"}
{"id": "348111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=348111", "title": "Color blindness (race)", "text": "Color blindness (race)\n\nColor blindness, in sociology, is a concept describing the idea of a society where racial classifications do not limit a person's opportunities based on their race, or color, as well as race-neutral governmental policies that reject discrimination in any form, and said to promote the goal of racial equality. This ideal was important to the Civil Rights Movement and international anti-discrimination movements of the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nThe goal of 1964 civil rights act in the United States was intended to make all people equal under the law no matter what their race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s central hope was that people would someday be judged by \"the content of their character\" rather than \"the color of their skin\". Whether this process has truly resulted in a color-blind U.S. society, or whether color-blind policies provide the best means of achieving racial equality, remains controversial.\n\nRacial color blindness reflects an ideal society in which skin color is insignificant. The ideal was most forcefully articulated in the context of the Civil Rights Movement and International Anti-racist movements of the 1950s and 1960s. Advocates for color blindness argue that persons should be judged not by their skin color but rather by \"the content of their character\", in the words of Martin Luther King Jr. Color-blind ideology is based on tenets of non-discrimination, due process of law, equal protection under the law, and equal opportunities regardless of race, ideas which have strongly influenced Western liberalism in the post-World War II period.\n\nProponents of \"color-blind\" practices believe that treating people equally inherently leads to a more equal society or that racism and race privilege no longer exercise the power they once did, rendering policies such as race-based affirmative action obsolete. As articulated by U.S. Chief Justice John Roberts, \"The way to stop discrimination on the basis of race, is to stop discriminating on the basis of race.\"\n\nIn \"Social Inequality and Social Stratification in US Society\", Christopher Doob writes that \"color-blind racism\" represents \"whites' assertion that they are living in a world where racial privilege no longer exists, but their behavior supports racialized structures and practices\".\n\nSociologist Eduardo Bonilla-Silva has described four \"frames\" that he says guide color-blind thinking. According to Bonilla-Silva, \"abstract liberalism\" is the most important of these frames and forms the foundation of color-blind ideology. This involves invoking abstract ideas such as \"equal opportunity\" and \"individual choice\" while opposing concrete proposals to reduce inequality. This perspective tends to ignore the under-representation of people of color in prestigious jobs and schools, along with institutional practices that encourage segregation. \"Naturalization\" is used by whites to explain racial segregation (including self-segregation) as \"natural\" and \"just the way things are\". \"Cultural racism\" relies on cultural, rather than biological, explanations such as \"blacks have too many babies\" to account for racial inequality. A fourth frame is \"minimization of racism\".\n\nProfessor William Julius Wilson of Harvard University has argued that \"class was becoming more important than race\" in determining life prospects within the black community. \nWilson has published several works including \"The Declining Significance of Race\" (1978) and \"The Truly Dis-advantaged\" (1987) explaining his views on black poverty and racial inequality. He believes that affirmative action primarily benefits the most privileged individuals within the black community. This is because strictly race-based programs disregard a candidate's socioeconomic background and therefore fail to help the poorer portion of the black community that actually needs the assistance. In a society where millions of blacks live in the middle and upper classes and millions of whites live in poverty, race is no longer an accurate indication of privilege. Recognizing someone's social class is more important than recognizing someone's race, indicating that society should be class-conscious, not race-conscious.\n\nSupreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, the only current black Justice, supports color-blind policies. He believes the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment forbids consideration of race, such as race-based affirmative action or preferential treatment. He believes that race-oriented programs create \"a cult of victimization\" and imply blacks require \"special treatment in order to succeed\".\n\nIn 1997 Leslie G. Carr published \"Color-Blind Racism\" which reviewed the history of racist ideologies in America. She saw \"color-blindness\" as an ideology that undercuts the legal and political foundation of integration and affirmative action. Stephanie M. Wildman, in her book \"Privilege Revealed: How Invisible Preference Undermines America\", writes that many Americans who advocate a merit-based, race-free worldview do not acknowledge the systems of privilege which benefit them. For example, many Americans rely on a social and sometimes even financial inheritance from previous generations. She argues that this inheritance is unlikely to be forthcoming if one's ancestors were slaves, and privileges whiteness, maleness, and heterosexuality.\n\n“There are concerns that majority groups use color-blindness as a means of avoiding the discussion of racism and discrimination. Color-blindness can be seen as a way to undermine the hardships of minority groups, as it used to argue that the United States is a meritocracy, in which people that succeed because they work hard not because of their privilege. Critics of this are fast to point to statistics that contradicts this notion of meritocracy, for example, the average black or Hispanic household earning more than $75,000 still live in a less affluent, resource-rich neighborhood than a white household that earns less than $40,000. In addition to this systematic racial oppression, minority groups are further pushed down financially. As Glenn Ellis, a health advocacy communication specialist and author, said children that live in poverty have scary numbers to face: “25 percent more likely to drop out of school; 40 percent more likely to become a teen parent; 50 percent more likely to be placed in special education; 60 percent more likely never to attend college; 70 percent more likely to be arrested for a violent crime; and 30 percent of poor children score very low on early reading skills, compared to only 7 percent of children from moderate- or high-income families.\"\n\nAcademic writers are often critics of color-blindness. For example, Amy Ansell of Bard College argues that color-blindness operates under the assumption that we are living in a world that is \"post-race\", where race no longer matters.\n\nWhile the ideal that race should not \"matter\", critics say, is certainly not a bad thing, the problem lies in asserting that race should not be taken into consideration even when trying to address inequality or remedy past wrongs.\n\nAbstract liberalism \"abstracts and decontextualizes\" themes from political and economic liberalism, such as meritocracy and the free market, to argue against the strong presence of racism. It is also often used in discussions of affirmative action. The principle of laissez-faire emphasizes a \"hands off\" policy in terms of the government's involvement with economic activity. When applied to issues of race, it results in people being for equality in principle but against government action to implement equality, a policy often called laissez-faire racism.\n\nThe \"biologization of culture\" explains the inequality among race today in terms of cultural difference. Where disparities were once explained in terms of biology, they are now being discussed in terms of culture. \"Culture\" in this framework is seen as something fixed and hard to change. One example form of rhetoric used in this framework is the argument, \"if Irish, Jews (or other ethnic groups) have 'made it', how come blacks have not?\" Such rhetoric blames blacks and other minority groups for their own situations because other previously disadvantaged groups have managed to 'make it' in American society.\n\nSimilarly, certain frameworks \"naturalize\" aspects of racism, used commonly in discussions of residential and school segregation. For example, using this framework one would say it is simply natural that people of the same race would tend to live together, that it's \"just the way it is\". This viewpoint, however, critics argue ignores the possibility of other factors underlying residential segregation such as the attitude of realtors, bankers, and sellers.\n\nFinally, as color-blindness may rest on the idea that racism is no longer a prevalent issue today, a fourth framework seeks to minimize racism. Thus, modern occurrences of racism are seen as rare aberrations committed by the last few racists in society. Because racism is viewed as no longer a problem under this belief, people who ascribe to color-blindness see government programs targeting race as \"illegitimate\" and no longer necessary.\n\nRobert D. Reason and Nancy J. Evans outline a similar description of color-blindness by Professor T.A. Forman of Emory University, which is based on four beliefs: 1. racial groups receive merit-based privileges, 2. most people do not notice nor are they concerned about race, 3. social inequality today is due to \"cultural deficits\" of individual people or racial or ethnic groups, and 4. given the previous three assumptions, there is no need to pay \"systematic attention\" to any current inequities. They argue the prevalence of color-blindness is partially attributed to lack of knowledge or lack of exposure. Due to segregation that exists in housing and education, many Americans may not have direct contact with the discrimination that still exists.\n\nFryer et al. showed that color-blind affirmative action is about as efficient as race-conscious affirmative action in the short run, but is less profitable in the long term.\n\nIn 2010, Apfelbaum et al. exposed elementary school students to color-blind ideology and found that those students were less likely to detect or report instances of overt racial discrimination. The authors concluded \"Color-blind messages may thus appear to function effectively on the surface even as they allow explicit forms of bias to persist.\"\n\nAmy Ansell, a sociologist at Bard College, has compared and contrasted the development of the color-blindness in the United States and South Africa. Given that whites are a minority population in South Africa and a majority population in the United States, Ansell expected to see a significant difference in the manifestation of color-blindness in both countries. The thirty-year time difference between the departure from Jim Crow and cessation of apartheid and differences in racial stratification and levels of poverty also led Ansell to expect a clear difference between the colorblindness ideology in the United States and South Africa. However, she concludes that while color-blindness stems from two very different origins in the two countries, the current structure of color-blindness in the two countries is nearly identical.\n\nVorauer, Gagnon, and Sasaki, examined the effect that messages with a color-blind ideology had on white Canadians entering one-on-one interactions with Aboriginal Canadians. White Canadians who heard messages emphasizing color-blind ideology were much more likely to be concerned with ensuring the subsequent interaction did not go badly and were more likely to be hostile, uncomfortable, nervous, self-critical, and uncertain. White participants who heard messages emphasizing multicultural ideology, or the valuing of people's differences, asked more positive questions focused on the other person and did not display significant concern for how the interaction would go.\n\nResearchers also offer alternatives to the color-blindness discourse. Reason and Evans call for people to become \"racially cognizant\", that is they need to acknowledge the role that race plays in their everyday lives. Being racially cognizant also demands a continuous examination and reinterpretation of race and how it affects our lives. It is also important to balance looking at a person as an individual and acknowledging the role their membership to a social group plays in their daily lives.\n\nResearcher Jennifer Simpson proposed that \"in setting aside color blindness, Whites must learn to see, accept, and experience their lives as raced and to explore the possibility that some of the good, ease, or rewards they have experienced have not been solely the result of hard work and just effort but of a system biased in their favor.\" This conscious exploration of whiteness as a racial and social identity and the acknowledgment of the role of whiteness is connected to modern whiteness studies. However, the field of whiteness studies has been criticized for its focus on reprimanding the white population, whereas similar fields such as Black studies, Women's studies, and Chicano Studies celebrate the contributions of the eponymous group.\n\nIn a recent publication of the academic journal \"Communication Theory\", Jennifer Simpson proposed a \"more productive dialogue about race\". New dialogue must take a more complex look at race, openly looking at all different perspectives on race. As dialogue is a means of empowerment, it should take into account how all experiences contribute to our understanding, particularly those experiences very different from our own. Simpson believes that whites must be willing to openly engage with people of color in discussing the ongoing effects of racism today. However, this requires white people to participate in \"communicative behavior that may threaten simultaneously their sense of self and their material power in the social order\".\n\nA multisite case study of Atlantic State University, a primarily white institution, and Mid-Atlantic State University, a historically black college, explored color-blind ideologies among the institutions’ white faculty members at the undergraduate and graduate level. In interviews with white faculty members at both institutions, researchers found the faculty often engaged with students from a color-blind perspective. Use of color-blind language by avoiding racial terms but instead implying them “allowed white faculty members to describe their students [of color] as academically inferior, less prepared, and less interested in pursuing research and graduate studies while potentially ignoring structural causes” of inequity. The study concludes that color-blind ideology held by school faculty can reduce a student of color's perception of their academic abilities and potential to achieve success in STEM disciplines and in graduate school.\n\nA case study of a suburban, mixed-race high school examined the trend toward color-blind ideology in schools among white faculty. The study's implications included that white school faculty's color-blind ideology often masks their fears of being accused of racism and prevents a deeper examination of race.\n\nCase studies of three large school districts, (Boston, Massachusetts; Wake County, North Carolina; and Jefferson County, Louisville) found that the districts’ race-neutral, or color-blind, policies to combat school segregation may actually be associated with an increase in segregation in schools, due to the policies’ tendency to “reframe privilege as common sense” while ignoring the structural inequalities of students outside that privileged framework.\n\n\n\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "25958827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25958827", "title": "Crime statistics in the United Kingdom", "text": "Crime statistics in the United Kingdom\n\nCrime statistics in the United Kingdom refers to the data collected in the United Kingdom, and that collected by the individual areas, England & Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, which operate separate judicial systems. It covers data related to crime in the United Kingdom. As with crime statistics elsewhere, they are broadly divided into victim studies and police statistics. More recently, third-party reporting is used to quantify specific under-reported issues, for example, hate crime.\n\nThe Crime Survey for England and Wales is an attempt to measure both the amount of crime, and the impact of crime on England and Wales. The original survey (carried out in 1982, to cover the 1981 year) covered all three judicial areas of the UK, and was therefore referred to as the British Crime Survey, but now it only covers England and Wales. In Scotland and Northern Ireland, similar surveys, namely the Scottish Crime and Victimisation Survey and Northern Ireland Crime Survey have similar purposes. These surveys collect information about the victims of crime, the circumstances surrounding the crime, and the behaviour of the perpetrators. They are used to plan, and measure the results of, crime reduction or perception measures. In addition, they collect data about the perception of issues such as antisocial behaviour and the criminal justice system.\n\nOther crime surveys include the Commercial Victimisation Survey, which covers small and medium-sized businesses, and the Offending, Crime and Justice Survey, with a particular focus on young people.\n\nThe accuracy of police statistics is questionable. Crimes are under-reported, as victims may be reluctant to report them due to considering it too trivial, embarrassing, aversion to dealing with the police, or fear of repercussions by the perpetrators. The police also sometime fail to record correctly all crimes reported to them. The police may not accept a person’s claim that they are a victim of crime. Suggested is that the police sometimes deliberately do not record a crime to save time or manipulate performance figures.\n\nIn 2002, the Home Office introduced a National Crime Recording Standard in England and Wales, due to a lack of uniformity in how police forces recorded notifiable offences. One issue identified was , the practice of writing off reported notifiable offences from police force statistics. The National Crime Recording Standard was applied inconsistently across crimes and regions, frequently incorrectly, for instance, it varied significantly by area: in the year to March 2011, 2% of reported rapes in Gloucestershire were recorded as \"no crime\", while 30% of reported rapes in Kent were so classified, making accurate comparison difficult. This was sometimes due to pressure from performance and other factors. During the period November 2012 – October 2013, an average of 19% of crimes reported to the police are not recorded, with one quarter of sexual crimes and one third of violent crimes not being recorded, with rape being particularly bad at 37% no-criming. Reporting is inconsistent across local forces: \"In a few forces, crime-recording is very good, and shows that it can be done well and the statistics can be trusted. In some other forces, it is unacceptably bad.\" The failure to properly record crime was called \"inexcusably poor\" and \"indefensible\" by Her Majesty’s Chief Inspector of Constabulary Tom Winsor. Twenty percent of reviewed decisions to cancel a report were found to be incorrect, and in about a quarter of cases there was no record of victims being informed that their report had been cancelled.\n\nSenior members of the policing establishment admit to long-term, widespread \"fiddling\" of figures, such as John Stevens, Baron Stevens of Kirkwhelpington, former head of the Metropolitan Police Service:\n\nIn April 2013, the framework for reporting of official police statistics was amended to address these issues. The Home Office delegated the responsibility for auditing a police forces compliance with the National Crime Recording Standard to Her Majesty's Chief Inspectorate of Constabulary, later renamed Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire Rescue Service. The first statistics using the new framework were published in July 2014. After the 2014 changes, five yearly rolling compliance audits by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire Rescue Service found that police force still do not uniformly comply with The National Crime Recording Standards. In 2014, the Office of National Statistics stated that the unreliability of notifiable offence statistics meant they did not meet the quality standards required of national statistics.\n\nEnglish criminal law details a series of criminal acts, and when these should apply. English courts apply criminal statutes and common law as part of their responsibility for applying justice and dealing with the culprits.\n\nAccording to the Home Office, there were around \"1.3 million violent crimes in England and Wales\" in 2017. Other areas of crime included robbery (79,117), burglary (432,267) and vehicle theft (457,970).\n\nThe strength of the police force, as of 2018, in England and Wales was around 125,651 of whom 37,104 are women. 25,700 children above the age of criminal responsibility, 10, and beneath majority, 18, were found guilty of indictable offenses in 2017, and a further 13,500 cautioned <ref name=\"Youth Justice Statistics 2016/17\"></ref> England and Wales has a prison population of over 75,000 (2018 estimate) and 3000 with home curfew. Around £2.7 billion is spent on the prison service of England and Wales each year.\n\nIn 2010, ATM crime cost the UK a total of £33.2 million – just over 8 percent of total card fraud. According to the British Crime Survey, 6.4 percent of plastic card users reported being victim to fraud during 2009-10.\n\nScots criminal law is separate to English criminal law, including the use of a not proven verdict at criminal trials in the Courts of Scotland. The list of offences is also different from England and Wales, and Northern Ireland.\n\nIn 2007–8, there were 114 homicide victims in Scotland, a slight decrease on the previous year. In the third quarter of 2009, there were a little over 17,000 full time equivalent serving police officers. There were around 375,000 crimes in 2008–9, a fall of 2% on the previous year. These included around 12,500 non-sexual violent acts, 168,000 crimes of dishonesty (housebreaking, theft and shoplifting are included in this category) and 110,000 acts of fire-raising and vandalism. In the 2008–9 period, there was a prison population in Scotland of about 7,300, equating to 142 people per 100,000 population, very similar to England and Wales. Spending on Scotland's prisons was around £350 million in 2007–8.\n\nBetween April 2008 and 2009, there were just over 110,000 crimes recorded by the Police Service of Northern Ireland, an increase of 1.5% on the previous year. Northern Ireland has around 7,500 serving full-time equivalent police positions, and a prison population of 1,500, 83 per 100,000 of the population, lower than the rest of the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "3696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3696", "title": "Demographics of Burundi", "text": "Demographics of Burundi\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Burundi, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\nAt 206.1 persons per km²., Burundi has the second-largest population density in Sub-Saharan Africa. Most people live on farms near areas of fertile volcanic soil. The population is made up of three major ethnic groups – Hutu (\"Bahutu\"), Tutsi (\"Batutsi\" or \"Watusi\"), and Twa (\"Batwa\"). Kirundi is the common language. Intermarriage takes place frequently between the Hutus and Tutsis. The terms \"pastoralist\" and \"agriculturist\", often used as ethnic designations for Watusi and Bahutu, respectively, are only occupational titles which vary among individuals and groups. Although Hutus encompass the majority of the population, historically Tutsis have been politically and economically dominant.\n\nAccording to , the total population was in , compared to only 2 456 000 in 1950. The proportion of children below the age of 15 in 2015 was 44.8%, 52.7% was between 15 and 65 years of age, while 2.5% was older than 65 years old\n\nNumbers are in thousands. UN medium variant projections \n\nRegistration of vital events is in Burundi not complete. The Population Departement of the United Nations prepared the following estimates.\n\nTotal Fertility Rate (TFR) (Wanted Fertility Rate) and Crude Birth Rate (CBR):\n\nFertility data as of 2010 (DHS Program):\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\n"}
{"id": "33585257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33585257", "title": "Dengese language", "text": "Dengese language\n\nDengese (Lengese, Ndengese) is a Bantu language of northern Kasai-Oriental Province, Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n"}
{"id": "10904918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10904918", "title": "East Mallee", "text": "East Mallee\n\nEast Mallee is a statistical subdivision defined under the Australian Standard Geographical Classification, and therefore used by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. It is one of three subdivisions of the Mallee statistical division of the Australian state of Victoria. It consists of four statistical local areas: Gannawarra (S), Swan Hill (RC) - Central, Swan Hill (RC) - Robinvale and Swan Hill (RC) Bal.\n"}
{"id": "24512339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24512339", "title": "Extremadurans", "text": "Extremadurans\n\nExtremadurans (, , ) are an ethnic group living in Extremadura, in the south-west of Spain.\n\nExtremadura has historically been, and still is, the poorest part of Spain, although the gap between Extremadura and other places in Spain has been reduced. Its landscape (and the landscape of the surrounding territories) is dominated by the dehesa, a kind of man-made pastureland wooded with sparse cork trees and holm oaks, used for the grazing of livestock.\n\nThe dialect of Extremadura belongs to the southern dialects of Spanish, with strong similarities to the speech from Andalusia or Murcian. However, in northern Extremadura these southern features merge with some Leonese features, forming the Extremaduran language, which is nowadays seriously endangered. In the rest of the territory, the influence of Leonese on the language is marginal. \n\nThere are some towns or villages in Extremadura where Portuguese is spoken, such as Olivenza, Cedillo and Herrera de Alcántara. Olivenza and Cedillo belonged to Portugal until two centuries ago, but Herrera de Alcántara never did.\n\nIn three villages located in a small valley of the northwestern part of Extremadura near the border with Portugal, the Fala language is spoken, which is a Romance language from the Galician-Portuguese subgroup mixed with Extremaduran.\n\nHistorically, Extremadura has long been one of the poorest regions in the country. As a result, many of its people emigrated to Latin America during the colonial era (1492-1820s), leaving a mark on Latin music in the Americas ever since.\n\n"}
{"id": "49451268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49451268", "title": "Father absence", "text": "Father absence\n\nParental separation affects a child's development. Early parental divorce (during primary school) has been associated with greater internalising and externalising behaviour problems in the child, while divorce later in childhood or adolescence may dampen academic performance. Children of unmarried parents tend to suffer greater emotional and social difficulties than others do.\n\nWhilst father absence mainly results from parental divorce and separation, other factors such as family poverty, developmental difficulties have been associated with father absence, the effects of which have been explained by various theoretical approaches.\n\nDespite limited agreement among researchers regarding the exact significance of fathering, fathers are traditionally deemed a provider of protection and support for the child's development. Through a number of pathways, father absence may influence child behaviour, especially in early and middle childhood. These include a decline in household income and ineffective parenting arising from continued conflicts and psychological distress.\n\nThe issue of divorce is a crucial aspect in the society in relations to the life of children. The separation of a married couple due to irreconcilable differences is a matter that is common in the society and its effects on children is negative. It will impact negatively on the education of the children, health conditions of the children, children's relation with their parents as well as the future well-being of the children (Amato, 2000). Therefore, the area relating to the effects of divorce on children is significant for academic inquiry. It makes sense to research on this particular area since it will help learn on the effects that comes with divorce, how children adjust and adapt to divorce and how they are being treated. It is also worth to mention that, parents who divorce have their minds lingering on how their actions will affect their children's happiness as well as health.\n\nIn attempting to explain how divorce will affect children, it is necessary for a research to first examine and categorize children in groups which will make it easy to carry out the study. This is because children will be affected differently by divorce depending on the age factor. It becomes even wise for a researcher to adopt the following groups: pre-schoolers (nine years and below), adolescents (9–13 years) and youths/young adults (14–25 years). The research will become more attainable if carried out using learning institutions which will include pre-schools, secondary schools and colleges. Therefore, a city within a state is selected where the research will be conducted and a preschool, one secondary school and one college is selected within the city where respondents (children) are found.\nObjectives becomes necessary for the study. This will allow a research to focus on certain areas and completely address the matter at hand without leaving gaps in the area of research. In addressing the topic, ‘The effect on children of an absent parent following divorce,’ the following research objectives can be used:\nResearch questions are also vital in this study. They offer guidelines on realizing the objectives of the study. At the conclusion, a researcher will review the research questions and establish whether they have been answered or not. The topic under study here will encompass the following research questions:\nIt is also necessary that significance of the study be stated by a researcher which will make the research meaningful. In line with this topic, parents will be informed of the underlying behaviours of children as a result of absence of parent following divorce. The study will also enlighten parents on the roles they play to shape their children when they live as a couple, therefore, parents will try to their best to reconcile their differences and live as one. The challenges that young adults at the age of 14 to 25 years and whose parents divorced faces as they enter into romantic relationships are revealed. The aim of the study is to explore knowledge relating to counselling of such cases.\nThe study will be easier when the scope is mentioned. This is the area the study will cover or rather the number of respondents. The study on ‘The effect on children of an absent parent following divorce,’ will be focus on pre-schoolers, adolescents as well as young adults in a particular area which can be certain learning institutions within a specific city. There are also certain assumptions which a researcher will have to make in this study. For example, it will be assumed that at the time the research will be done. All the learning institutions will be on session and can be accessed and that the respondents will be willing to share the information required.\n\nAs part of the research, a literature review is necessary. This will involve carrying out various theoretical reviews to examine various theories related to the topic under study. Such theories will include attachment theory, social learning theory, among many others. The theories will lay a foundation to the topic. Moreover, empirical review is another part of literature review where various literary works carried out by other researchers relating to the topic of study are examined in detail.\n\nResearch methodology will consist of the research design suitable for the topic of study, the target population, the sampling design, data collection and data analysis. The research design in relation to the topic of this study will be descriptive survey design. The target population will consist of all the students in the learning institutions selected that will be used for the research. Stratified sampling design is suitable for the study since data will be collected and based on three strata; pre-schoolers, secondary and college. Data collection will be by use of questionnaires and finally, data analysis will be both quantitative and qualitative. The quantitative will encompass such descriptive statistics as mean and standard deviation while the qualitative will take into account attaching significance to the themes as well as the patterns observed (Bryman, 2008).\nThe results and findings will be finally presented summarizing the information obtained from data collection and analysed. The summary of the findings will provide answers to the research questions, reveal the challenges experienced throughout the research and expose gabs that can aid in further research concerning the topic.\nThe research especially when administering questionnaires and interviews if any should be carried out in a manner which is within two key aspects: conforming to ethical practices and adhering to approved protocol. Ethical practices in research are very vital and plays a very important role in protecting the rights and privacy of the respondents. The use of human subjects is a critical ethical consideration. This study will have to adhere to the guidelines set by Institutional Review Board of the schools which data will be collected. The board is composed of people who will check to ensure that the information gathered from the respondents are safe and that human rights of the respondents are not violated in any case. The ethical considerations that are relevant to this study will involve voluntary participation by the respondents and the informed consent (Vanclay, 2013).\nIt is important to note that ethical standards very important roles in this research work. They guarantee that all human subjects that become respondents in the study accepted freely and willfully to participate and that they have been fully updated on the purpose of the research. Moreover, the subjects’ confidentiality and anonymity is highly protected.\n\nIn regard to the effects of father absence, a recent British study assessed child problem behaviour in over 15,000 families using the clinical cut-offs of the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ), controlling for household factors such as resources, parental mental health and inter-parental relationship. The study found that father absence at a given age, similar to poverty and parental psychological distress, predicted a high probability of the child scoring above the cut-off score for total difficulties two years later. Likewise, father absence predicted several specific difficulties including borderline personality disorder, severe hyperactivity and abnormal emotional problems. Reciprocally, a child's severe externalising and social during their preschool years were also associated with a greater probability of the father being absent two years later. The authors concluded that father absence seemed to be more of a cause than a consequence of child problem behaviour.\n\nThrough direct interaction, fathers’ involvement in children's development has a positive influence on their social, behavioural and psychological outcomes. In general, engagement of a fatherly figure reduces the frequency of behavioural problems and delinquency in sons and psychological problems in daughters, all the while facilitating children's cognitive development.\n\nEvolutionary life-history theory postulates that women may invest more in their offspring than the opposite gender due to a slower rate of reproduction in females. Some theorists add that the assured maternal relatedness to one's offspring may also make women invest more than men. This is because some men may have variable paternity confidence that the child is his offspring. In light of this, some researchers argue that assured maternal relatedness, together with the lower variance in female reproductive success, may lead parents to bias investment towards female offspring under less favourable household conditions. In other words, father absence and the associated socioeconomic constraints it puts on the household may pose a greater risk to sons’ rather than daughters’ survival.\n\nThe psychodynamic approach posits that behaviour is motivated by basic needs, and drives and is sometimes shaped by unconscious childhood experiences. It is implicated that for a child to develop a “normal” gender identity, they will have to be raised in a conventional family where there is a father and a mother. Freud believed that being parented by a single mother could confuse the child's identity or lead them to become homosexual. Father absence may hinder the son's acquisition of the traditional masculine role, as he is not able to model his own behaviour and attitude on his fathers’. Along similar lines, sons with absent fathers could have confused gender identities – if the son was separated from his father by age four, he would be less assertive, less involved in sport, less masculine than other boys and more dependent on his peers. Nevertheless, findings of certain empirical studies on psychosexual gender identification have been deemed contradictory and inconclusive. A number of studies have highlighted such negative consequences of the two-parent heterosexual household on children. Contrarily, others have pointed out that being reared in lesbian and single-parent households where the father was absent did not affect the psychosexual development of children, despite higher aggressiveness and submissiveness and lower assertiveness.\n\nGenes and hormones may account for the tendency of fathers to be absent. Certain DNA patterns have been shown to affect an individual's degree of fidelity and investment in their offspring. In particular, a study in prairie voles indicates that the gene AVPR1A affects the activity of vasopressin receptors in brain regions and thus predicts less cheating on their partners. Similar to oxytocin, the hormone vasopressin can facilitate trust, empathy and social bonding. Injection of vasopressin in polygamous montane voles significantly increased their likelihood of becoming monogamous. This may in turn decrease their likelihood of being an absent father.\n\nA meta-analysis based on 56 twin and adoption studies totalling over 200,000 families has revealed that genetic makeup significantly affects the individual's parenting behaviour. Genes in the father reliability predict up to 40% of his positive or negative emotions towards his children. In this sense, genes contribute to a father's liking or repulsion for his children, the latter of which may result in father absence.\n\nThere is mixed empirical evidence on the relative impact of father absence on the development of male and female offspring. A recent study in rural Ethiopia, where father absence could mean a significant drop in household income, revealed a considerable difference between the wellbeing of male and female offspring. In particular, the author found that a male infant's risk of dying per month was doubled if the biological father was absent – a 30% greater risk than that for females. For female infants, father absence (as opposed to presence) was associated with a lower risk of dying, as well as higher nutritional status. That is to say, father absence was only a statistical predictor of infant death only for male infants. Such a gender difference has been observed despite a strong cultural preference for sons in the area. On the other hand, in developed countries such as the United Kingdom where father absence may not inflict as much harm on the family's income, the effects of father absence are not noticeably gendered.\n\nEarly pubertal timing – precocious puberty – is associated with negative outcomes in both genders. Early maturing girls have been found to be at risk for teenage pregnancy, drinking and weight problems, and giving birth to low birth weight infants. Early maturing boys are at risk for sexual promiscuity and delinquency and testicular and prostate cancer. Individual difference in pubertal timing may be influenced by weight, physical activity and genetics.\n\nA central event of female puberty – menarche – is associated with father absence. According to the evolutionary explanation, an unstable home environment (e.g. father absence) discourages a long-term mating life history, leading girls to adopt a short-term reproductive strategy, such as early menarche. This is because they perceive resources they have as scarce and, possibly, their lifespan to be shorter, under the influence of father absence. An early menarche can increase the chance of fertility, while other short-term reproductive strategies can diversify the genes inherited in offspring. These could lift up a higher success rate of rearing children to adolescence. Moreover, the stress of father absence prompts girls to develop a variety of internalising disorders, such as bulimia and depression, which may lower the person's metabolism leading to excessive weight gain which precipitates early menarche. A study shows that there are fewer monitored meals in the father-absent household. Having meals in the family is arguably more beneficial to children than is eating alone (i.e. solitary eating), as the former lowers the chance of obesity.\n\nHowever, it has been disputed whether the environmental stress of father absence stimulates weight gain, and thus accelerates early puberty. Likewise, the stress arisen from the absence of mother has been shown to have little influence on the child's body weight. Since mother absence does not predict weight gain in children, it seems that the increase in the child's body weight observed is due to the isolated genetic influence of an absent father, rather than the global environmental stress cause by the absence of either parent. This is possibly because in ancestral times the survival rate of children with mother being absent was extremely low. A specialised mechanism to deal with mother absence has never been developed.\n\nIn addition, recent findings seem to regard genes, rather than the environment, as the mechanism underlying the positive correlation between high body mass index and earlier first menarche onset. Androgen receptor gene may predispose a father to impulsive and externalising behaviours (e.g. family abandonment) and his offspring to early puberty. The essentialness of androgen receptor to female fertility and ovary development has been proven by rodent studies.\n\nFather absence in a household can result in children (of both sexes) having earlier average ages of first sexual intercourse than those raised in father present households. There is also the effect of increased rates of teenage pregnancy. Some evolutionary theories propose that early childhood is vital for encoding information that shapes future reproductive strategies in regulating physical and motivational pathways of sexual behaviour. Conflicting and stressful parental relationships can lead children to believe that resources are limited, people are untrustworthy, and relationships are opportunistic. As they replicate their parents’ mating-oriented reproductive behaviour, they tend to have multiple sexual partners and erratic relationships. Children implicitly and explicitly model their sexual attitudes and behaviours on their parents, see engagement in non-marital sex as normative. Father absence however can be a byproduct of initial social and economic strain within the household (e.g. violence, lack of educational opportunities and cumulative life exposure to poverty can increase the likelihood of early sexual endeavours and pregnancy). The timing of first intercourse can be heritable - shorter alleles of the X-linked androgen receptor (AR) gene has been associated with aggression, impulsivity, high number of sexual partners, divorce in males and earlier ages of physical maturation in females.\n\nDespite being poorer overall, widowed and divorced women are on average 2.4 kg heavier than women whose children's fathers are present. Widowed and divorced mothers as well as their daughters are reported to have substantially improved nutritional status which could be explained by them having greater access to the mother's relatives (matrilateral kin). Furthermore, proximity to a mother's relatives can dramatically improve female children's height for age, an indicator of good nutrition. Women who return to their village of birth following marital dissolution are seen to benefit from extra matrilateral kin support, which replaces the help of the missing husband. Female headed families are found to be similar to traditional families regarding a range of measures such as quality of parenting and young adult's psychological adjustment. Children were also found to have more positive family relationships and greater psychological wellbeing as young adults. Children without their biological fathers present can also grow up in same sex parent households, where they can experience far more interaction with their mothers and be more likely to perceive them as available and dependent compared to peers from father present homes. there were no negative effect on social and emotional development or differences in parenting or children development. Although boys showed more feminine characteristics this did not mean they showed less masculine characteristics. Father absence here can influence adolescents relationships with their mothers but no negative consequences for children. No significant differences are found regarding families of heterosexual and homosexual mothers for boys, there was no influence over sexual identity conflict or even peer group stigmatisation.It is also necessary that significance of the study be stated by a researcher which will make the research meaningful. In line with this topic, parents will be informed of the underlying behaviours of children as a result of absence of parent following divorce. The study will also enlighten parents on the roles they play to shape their children when they live as a couple, therefore, parents will try to their best to reconcile their differences and live as one. The challenges that young adults at the age of 14 to 25 years and whose parents divorced faces as they enter into romantic relationships are revealed. The aim of the study is to explore knowledge relating to counselling of such cases.\nThe study will be easier when the scope is mentioned. This is the area the study will cover or rather the number of respondents. The study on ‘The effect on children of an absent parent following divorce,’ will be focus on pre-schoolers, adolescents as well as young adults in a particular area which can be certain learning institutions within a specific city. There are also certain assumptions which a researcher will have to make in this study. For example, it will be assumed that at the time the research will be done. All the learning institutions will be on session and can be accessed and that the respondents will be willing to share the information required.\n\nAs part of the research, a literature review is necessary. This will involve carrying out various theoretical reviews to examine various theories related to the topic under study. Such theories will include attachment theory, social learning theory, among many others. The theories will lay a foundation to the topic. Moreover, empirical review is another part of literature review where various literary works carried out by other researchers relating to the topic of study are examined in detail.\n\nThe research design in relation to the topic of this study will be descriptive survey design. The target population will be all the students in the learning institutions selected that will be used for the research. Stratified sampling design is suitable for the study since data will be collected and based on three strata; pre-schoolers, secondary and college. Data collection will be by use of questionnaires and finally, data analysis will be both quantitative and qualitative. The quantitative will encompass such descriptive statistics as mean and standard deviation while the qualitative will take into account attaching significance to the themes as well as the patterns observed (Bryman, 2008).\nThe results and findings will be finally presented summarizing the information obtained from data collection and analysed. The summary of the findings will provide answers to the research questions, reveal the challenges experienced throughout the research and expose gabs that can aid in further research concerning the topic.\n\nThe research especially when administering questionnaires and interviews if any should be carried out in a manner which is within two key aspects: conforming to ethical practices and adhering to approved protocol. Ethical practices in research are very vital and plays a very important role in protecting the rights and privacy of the respondents. The use of human subjects is a critical ethical consideration. This study will have to adhere to the guidelines set by Institutional Review Board of the schools which data will be collected. The board is composed of people who will check to ensure that the information gathered from the respondents are safe and that human rights of the respondents are not violated in any case. The ethical considerations that are relevant to this study will involve voluntary participation by the respondents and the informed consent (Vanclay, 2013).\nIt is important to note that ethical standards very important roles in this research work. They guarantee that all human subjects that become respondents in the study accepted freely and wilfully to participate and that they have been fully updated on the purpose of the research. Moreover, the subjects’ confidentiality and anonymity is highly protected.\n\nIn light of certain research, father absence can be disadvantageous; certain evidence suggests stepfather presence does not reduce these disadvantages but in fact has a worsening effect on such issues. For example, the Cinderella effect, which refers to the observation that stepchildren are at a dramatically increased risk of physical abuse and homicide than children living with their biological parents. Although there researchers have found a negative relationship between stepmothers and food expenditure, this effect is not observed with stepfathers and their stepchildren. Ellis and Garber (2000) and Ellis (2004) suggest that stepfather presence is a better predictor of age of menarche than father absence, as it indicates lower quality paternal investment. In accordance with their findings, results show that girls raised in families with stepfathers exhibit a significantly earlier age of menarche than girls raised without stepfathers.\n\nRelative to other groups, children with a constantly absent biological father but a stepfather present reported more frequent incidences of sexual intercourse, as well as an earlier onset of sexual behaviour. The mean age of children with their biological father absent or partially absent is approximately 15. A higher percentage of children with a constantly absent biological father reported having sexual intercourse than those in the partially absent group. Those with a stepfather present and those with a biological father always absent have the earliest first time experiences of sexual intercourse at on average 15.11 years old, whereas children without a stepfather or their biological father partially absent at the age of 15.38 experience their first encounter of sexual intercourse. The effect of having a partially absent biological father with stepfather absence and the effect both stepfather or biological father absence are the same. This study indicated that the presence of a stepfather is not compensating to the disadvantages of a biological father being absent. In some situations, it can cause an even bigger negative effect on children.\n\nChoice of effective treatment can be greatly varied and thus can be affected by many factors such as age, one's ability to understand and deal with emotionally heavy material, family members involvement and the family and child's priorities and needs. In treating some of the negative effects that young girls may have, transference to a male therapist could help facilitate the opportunity to fill any emotional void created through father absence. On the other hand, simply through the existence of a connection with a consistent and empathetic adult can provide some paternal function, regardless of gender.\n"}
{"id": "30000180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30000180", "title": "Food security in Ethiopia", "text": "Food security in Ethiopia\n\nFood security is defined, according to the World Food Summit of 199, as existing \"when all people at all times have access to sufficient, safe, nutritious food to maintain a healthy and active life\". This commonly refers to people having \"physical and economic access\" to food that meets both their nutritional needs and food preferences. Today, Ethiopia faces high levels of food insecurity, ranking as one of the hungriest countries in the world, with an estimated 5.2 million people needing food assistance in 2010. Ethiopia was ranked 104 in the world in Global Hunger Index 2017.\n\nAccounting for 84% of the country's labor force, agriculture in Ethiopia is the largest contributor to economic growth and the economy's most important sector. Especially among the poverty-stricken rural population, the livelihood of most Ethiopians depends on agriculture. Although it is a country with \"significant agricultural potential because of its water resources, its fertile land areas, and its large labor pool,\" this potential goes largely undeveloped. \nEthiopian agriculture is incredibly sensitive to shifts in weather. When rainfall is erratic or insufficient for even a few successive rainy seasons, the entire country is prone to falling into famine. The most highly publicized example of this is 1984, when Ethiopia experienced one of its worst droughts in recent history and hundreds of thousands of people (one million people is the estimate most often cited) died or became destitute due to the famine that ensued.\n\nAccording to an early 2010 report, 5.2 million people in Ethiopia face a precarious food security situation. The worsening food security situation is attributed primarily to poor rainfall last year during the February–May and June–October seasons. A series of successive droughts had already weakened Ethiopia's food situation, with \"poor and erratic rainfall over the last two years.\" Global conditions such as the high food and fuel prices that have persisted in the country since 2008 and the global financial crisis have also contributed to Ethiopia's failing food security.\nEthiopia is considered a least developed country ranked 171 out of 182 countries in the UNDP Human Development Index for 2009. In the 2010 Global Hunger Index, which ranks developing countries and countries in transition based on proportion of undernourished people, proportion of underweight children under five, and child mortality rate, Ethiopia was given a 29.8, on a scale of 0-100, with 0 being the best and 100 the worst possible score. Ethiopia is one of the countries that made the most absolute progress improving its score between 1990 and 2010; in 1990 it had a score of 43.7, and now it's down to 29.8. However, this score is still highly troubling – it's currently ranked 80th out of 84 countries.\n\nThe level of hunger in Ethiopia can also be measured based on child growth, which is \"internationally recognized as an important indicator of nutritional status and health in populations.\" In 2005, 20% of babies had low birth weight (less than 2500g at birth). 53.5% of children under five and 30.6% of pregnant women were anemic. 34.6% of children were considered underweight, which contributes to child mortality, since \"evidence has shown that the mortality risk of children who are even mildly underweight is increased, and severely underweight children are at even greater risk.\" \n50.7% of children suffered from growth retardation as a result of inadequate diets, and 12.3% were \"wasting\", which refers to a condition brought on by severe under-nutrition and causes permanent impairment of the immune system, making them much more susceptible to infectious diseases and death.\nThese high levels of under-nutrition, particularly in children and mothers, have serious implications for Ethiopia's future. High child mortality, impaired immune system, and the results of stunting due to inadequate diet, which include delayed mental development and intellectual capacity and decreased performance in school, have long-term effects, not only for those children but for economic productivity as a whole. Small, undernourished women are also more likely to experience complications in during childbirth, and are more likely to give birth to low birth-weight babies, further \"contributing to the intergenerational cycle of malnutrition\".\n\nEnding hunger internationally is a major part of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals. The first goal is to \"eradicate extreme poverty and hunger\", and the fourth is to \"reduce child mortality rate\", in which preventing malnutrition in mothers and children is integral. In order to fulfill these goals in Ethiopia, in 2007 the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) developed the Food Security and Recovery Project, which is intended to run from January 2007 to December 2011 and to \"contribute to the achievement of food security in the country including disaster risk management and early recovery capacities.\" It is designed to promote institutional coordination and community participation in order to achieve disaster risk reduction and food security. By 2011, UNDP hopes to significantly strengthen Ethiopian government capacity to take appropriate action to respond to emergency situations, ensuring the population's survival and recovery. They delivered $725,000, $6,815,000.00 and $4,538,000, in 2007, 2008, and 2009 respectively.\n\nAs part of the Food Security and Recovery Project, UNDP also supports the Ethiopia Commodity Exchange (ECX), the country's first formal, organized marketplace. Located in Ethiopia's capital city, Addis Ababa, ECX is intended to give buyers and sellers a place to trade, \"assured of quality, quantity, payment, and delivery\", by informing them of commodity prices throughout the country, and guaranteeing payment and delivery on transactions made through the exchange. Since its founding in April 2008, ECX has become fully operational, currently trading coffee, sesame, haricot beans, maize, and wheat. With the help of UNDP, they also organized an Africa-wide Knowledge Sharing Forum entitled \"The Making of a Market: Global Learning from Commodity Exchange Experiences\" and hosted the first Africa commodity exchange meeting, which included representatives from twelve other African countries.\n\nThe World Bank also supports development of food security in Ethiopia. In 2010 World Bank approved a plan to devote $150 million to the Ethiopian government ($108.4 million of which as credit and $41.6 million as a grant) \"to support increased agricultural productivity, enhanced market access for key crop and livestock products, and improved food security\". The Agricultural Growth Program (AGP) was designed to target high-potential districts and, in an attempt to \"increase resilience to climate variability and promote jobs and small business development\", it is supposed to increase the participation of Ethiopians themselves, mostly farmers, women, and children, in defining specifically what support they need to achieve these goals.\nAccording to the World Bank, the AGP will support the Ethiopian government in developing food security and sustainability in five ways:\n\nFounded in January 2005, The Productive Safety Net Programme (PSNP) is the second largest social transfer program in Africa (after South Africa). Its goal is to \"tackle chronic food insecurity and break Ethiopia's dependence on food aid\". Traditionally, food insecurity in Ethiopia was primarily addressed by deployments of \"emergency\" food aid. However, over the last decade these \"emergencies\" have become a chronic, rather than transitory, condition. Every year from 1994 to 2003 emergency food aid was mobilized for more than five million Ethiopians, and despite these yearly efforts, the rural population remained as vulnerable as ever to food insecurity. The PSNP is designed to respond to this problem, aiming to provide \"predictable transfers to meet predictable needs\". Supported by international aid, the Ethiopian government gives support to chronically food-insecure households for six months of the year for up to five years, so that these households are able to build up their resilience against shocks like drought or rise in food prices that traditionally cause food emergencies requiring tremendous financial assistance. \"Although emergency relief would continue to be required in years of severe shocks, if the PSNP is successful then millions of people would be removed from the annual emergency appeal process, and there would be a gradual shift towards a flexible multi-year safety net that expands and contracts according to need\".\n\nPSNP was born in 2005 out of deliberations of the government of Ethiopia, UN organizations such as UN-OCHA (Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affair), and international NGOs. The PSNP system is rooted in the FSP(Food Security Programme) as an initiative of the [World Bank]] and IMF championed Ethiopian Poverty Reduction strategy with an annual budget of US$107 million.\n\nThe PSNP aims to provide a security against abrupt income changes. In addition, it ties relief to development by giving food aid in exchange for labor effort to construct public works. Since the efficiency and standard of outputs on public work have been typically low and maintenance on the infrastructure insufficient, food aid has been given as in incentive to work on them. To its government, this is one way of bridging relief to development. It includes many building blocks guided towards local development; block grants are made accessible to workdays for activities such as water harvesting, irrigation, feeder roads and household agricultural packages and direct, unconditional payments for elderly, the handicapped, pregnant women.\n\nEvaluations by the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) show that PSNP is well-targeted towards the most food insecure and poorest households residing in the areas in which the program operates and that the program has improved household food security and expenditures .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "461911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=461911", "title": "Gagauz people", "text": "Gagauz people\n\nThe Gagauzes are a Turkic people living mostly in southern Moldova (Gagauzia, Taraclia District, Basarabeasca District), southwestern Ukraine (Budjak), northeastern Bulgaria, Greece, Brazil, the United States and Canada. The Gagauz are Eastern Orthodox Christians.\n\nToday Gagauz people outside Moldova live mainly in the Ukrainian regions of Odessa and Zaporizhia, as well as in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Bulgaria, Greece, Romania, Brazil, Turkmenistan, Belarus, Estonia, Latvia, Georgia, Turkey, and the Russian region of Kabardino-Balkaria.\n\nThere are nearly 20,000 descendants of Gagauzians living in the Balkan country of Bulgaria, as well as upwards of 3,000 living in the United States of America, Brazil and Canada.\n\nThe Encyclopedia of World Cultures lists the ethnonym of the Gagauz as \"Turkish speaking Bulgars\". Astrid Menz writes this about the etymology:\n\n\"Older ethnographic works such as Pees (1894) and Jireček (1891)—both covering the Gagauz in Bulgaria—mention that only their neighbors used the ethnonym Gagauz, partly as an insult. The Gagauz themselves did not use this self-designation; indeed, they considered it offensive. Both Pees and Jireček mention that the Gagauz in Bulgaria tended to register either as Greek because of their religion (clearly an outcome of the Ottoman millet-system) or as Bulgarian because of the newly emerging concept of nationalism. According to Pees informants from Moldova, the Gagauz there called themselves Hıristiyan-Bulgar (Christian Bulgars), and Gagauz was used only as a nickname (Pees 1894, p. 90). The etymology of the ethnonym Gagauz is as unclear as their history. As noted above, they are not mentioned—at least not under that name—in any historical sources before their immigration into Bessarabia. Therefore, we have no older versions of this ethnonym. This, combined with the report that the Gagauz felt offended when called by this name, makes the etymology somewhat dubious.\"\n\nThe Gagauz language belongs to the Oghuz branch of the Turkic languages, which also includes the Azerbaijani, Turkish, and Turkmen languages. The Gagauz language is particularly close to the Balkan Turkish dialects spoken in Greece, northeastern Bulgaria, and in the Kumanovo and Bitola areas of the Republic of Macedonia. The Balkan Turkic languages, including Gagauz, are a typologically interesting case, because they are closely related to Turkish and at the same time contain a North-Turkic (Tatar or Kypchak) element besides the main South-Turkic (Oghuz) element (Pokrovskaya, 1964). The modern Gagauz language has two dialects: central (or ‘‘Bulgar’’) and southern (or maritime) (Pokrovskaya,\n1964; Gordon, 2005).\n\nThe vast majority of Gagauz are Eastern Orthodox Christians.\n\nThe traditional economy centered on animal husbandry (particularly sheep raising) and agriculture that combined grain and market gardening with viticulture. Even in the recent past, despite the cultural similarity of the Gagauz to the Bulgars of Bessarabia, there were important differences between them: the Bulgars were peasant farmers; although the Gagauz also farmed, they were essentially pastoralist in outlook.\n\nThe staple food is grain, in many varieties. A series of family holidays and rituals was connected with the baking of wheat bread, both leavened loaves (e.g., \"kalaches\") and unleavened flatcakes.\n\nThe favorite dish was a layered pie stuffed with sheep's milk cheese and soaked with sour cream before baking. Other delicacies were pies with crumbled pumpkin and sweet pies made with the first milk of a cow that had just calved. The traditional ritual dish called \"kurban\" combined bulgar wheat porridge with a slaughtered (or sacrificed) ram and is further evidence of the origins of the Gagauz in both the Balkan world and the steppe-pastoral complex. Peppered meat sauces are especially important: one combines onion and finely granulated porridge, while another is tomato-based. A red house wine is served with dinner and supper. Head cheese is an indispensable component of holiday meals.\n\nToward the end of the 19th century, in good weather, a Gagauz woman's costume consisted of a canvas shirt, a sleeveless dress, a smock, and a large black kerchief. In winter, they donned a dress with sleeves, a cloth jacket, and a sleeveless fur coat. Required features of female dress were earrings, bracelets, beads, and, among wealthy Gagauz, a necklace of gold coins. \"So many of their decorations are hung about,\" wrote a pre-Revolutionary researcher, \"that they cover the entire breast down to the waist.\"\n\nTraditional male clothing included a shirt, cloth pants, a wide red sash or belt, and a hat. The winter cap was made of Karakul sheep wool. The shepherd's costume was the usual shirt combined with sheepskin pants with the fleece turned in, a sleeveless fur coat, and a short sheepskin jacket, the latter sometimes decorated with red-on-green stitching.\n\nThe origin of the Gagauzes is obscure. In the beginning of the 20th century, Bulgarian historian M. Dimitrov counts 19 different theories about their origin. A few decades later the Gagauz ethnologist M. N. Guboglo increases the number to 21. In some of those theories the Gagauz people are presented as descendants of the Bulgars, the Cumans-Kipchaks (there is a modern Gagauz family name \"Qipcaqli\") or a clan of Seljuk Turks or as linguistically Turkified Bulgarians. The fact that their confession is Eastern Orthodox Christianity may suggest that their ancestors already lived in the Balkans prior to the Ottoman conquest in the late 14th century.\n\nAccording to the Seljuk theory, supported by the Polish orientalist Tadeusz Jan Kowalski, the Gagauz descended from the Seljuk Turks who in the 13th century followed the Anatolian Seljuk Sultan Kaykaus II (1236–1276) and supposedly settled in the Dobruja region of the medieval Second Bulgarian Empire. There they presumably mixed with other Turkic peoples such as Pechenegs, Uz (Oghuz) and Cumans (Kipchaks) who came from the Russian steppe at about the same time. After settling in the eastern Balkans, these Seljuks are thought to have converted from Islam to Eastern Orthodox Christianity in the 13th century, and later became known as \"Gagauz\". Seljuk theory advocates claim the name derives from \"Kay Kāvus\", which would make Gagauz an ancient tribal name.\n\nIn fact Kaykaus is known to have finally settled in Crimea.\n\nThe Steppe hypothesis suggests that the Gagauzes may be descendants of the Turkic nomadic tribes (Bulgars and Cumans) from the Eurasian steppes. In the 19th century, before their migration to Bessarabia, the Gagauzes from the Bulgarian territories of the Ottoman Empire considered themselves Bulgarians. Ethnological research suggest that \"Gagauz\" was a linguistic distinction and not ethnic. Gagauzes to that time called themselves \"Hasli Bulgar\" (True Bulgars) or \"Eski Bulgar\" (Old Bulgars) and considered the term \"Gagauz\" applied to them by the Slavic-speaking Bulgarians (who they called \"toukan\") demeaning. The Gagauzes called their language Turkish and accordingly claimed descent from early Turkic Bulgars who in the 7th century established the First Bulgarian Empire on the Danube. Now many Gagauz in Moldova claim Seljuk-Turkish descent. The Gagauz in Bulgaria do not support that view.\n\nThe Russian Empire Census of 1897 did not distinguish the Gagauz as a specific group, but it reported the existence of 55,790 native speakers of a \"Turkish language\" (presumably the Gagauz language) in the Bessarabia Governorate.\n\nIn population comparisons, the Gagauzes were found to be more closely related genetically to neighboring southeastern European groups than to linguistically related Anatolian populations. More considerable distinctions in the distribution of Y chromosome components appeared between the Gagauzes and other Turkic peoples.\n\nThe similarity to neighboring populations may be due to the lack of social barriers between the local and the Turkic-Orthodox populations of the Balkan Peninsula. Another possibility is language shift in accordance with the dominant minority model, i.e. Turkification.\n\nGagauz belong to Y-DNA haplogroups I2a (23.6%), R1a (19.1%), G (13.5%), R1b (12.4%), E1b1b1a1 (11.1%), J2 (5.6%) and Haplogroup N (2.2%). Finally, the phylogenetic analysis of Y-DNA situates Gagauzes most proximal to Macedonians, Bulgarians, Serbs and other Balkan populations, resulting in a high genetic distance from the Turkish people and other Turkic peoples. The analyses showed that Gagauzes belong to the Balkan populations, suggesting that the Gagauz language represents a case of language replacement in southeastern Europe. According to a more detailed autosomal analysis of thousands of SNPs, not just of the sex chromosome, Gagauzes are most proximal to Ethnic Macedonians, followed by Greek Macedonians apart from Thessaloniki, and others such as Bulgarians, Romanians and Montenegrins.\n\nAfter a genetic comparison between the populations of the Balkans, Anatolia, and Central Asia, the results showed that the Gagauz are part of the Balkan genetic group.\n\nBetween 1820 and 1846, the Russian Empire allocated land to the Gagauz and gave them financial incentives to settle in Bessarabia in the settlements vacated by the Nogai tribes. They settled in Bessarabia along with Bassarabian Bulgarians, mainly in Avdarma, Comrat (or \"Komrat\"), Congaz (\"Kongaz\"), Tomai, Cismichioi and other former Nogai villages located in the central Budjak region. Originally, the Gagauz also settled in several villages belonging to boyars throughout southern Bessarabia and the Principality of Moldavia, but soon moved to join their kin in the Bugeac. Until 1869, the Gagauz in Bessarabia were described as Bulgarians. During the Romanian rule of southernmost Bessarabia (1856–1878), they supported Bulgarian schools in their settlements and participated in the Bulgarian national movement. Therefore, some ethnologists (Karel Škorpil, Gavril Zanetov, Benyo Tsonev) claim Bulgarian origin for the Gagauz.\n\nWith the exception of a five-day independence in the winter of 1906, when a peasant uprising declared the autonomous Republic of Komrat, the Gagauzian people have mainly been ruled by the Russian Empire, Romania, the Soviet Union, and Moldova.\n\nThe wave of Stolypin agrarian policies carried some Gagauz to Kazakhstan between 1912 and 1914, and later yet another group settled in Uzbekistan during the very troubled years of initial collectivization. So as not to lose their civil rights, they called themselves \"Bulgars\" in the 1930s; The Gagauz of the village of Mayslerge in the Tashkent District retain that designation to this day.\n\nGagauz nationalism remained an intellectual movement during the 1980s but strengthened by the end of the decade as both elites and opposition groups in the Soviet Union began to embrace nationalist ideals. In 1988, activists from the local intelligentsia aligned with other ethnic minorities to create the movement known as the \"Gagauz People\" (Gagauz: \"Gagauz halkı\"). A year later, the \"Gagauz People\" held its first assembly which accepted the resolution to create an autonomous territory in the southern Moldavian SSR, with Comrat designated as capital. The Gagauz nationalist movement increased in popularity when Moldovan (Romanian) was accepted as the official language of the Republic of Moldova in August 1989. The minorities of southern Moldova—Gagauz, Bulgarians, and Russians—looked on this decision with concern, precipitating a lack of confidence in the central government located in Chişinău. The Moldavian population regarded Gagauz demands with suspicion, convinced they were acting as puppets of forces that wanted to preserve the Soviet Union.\n\nIn August 1990, Comrat declared itself an autonomous republic, but the Moldovan government annulled the declaration as unconstitutional. The Gagauz were also worried about the implications for them if Moldova reunited with Romania, as seemed increasingly likely. Support for the Soviet Union remained high, with a local referendum in March 1991 yielding an almost unanimous \"yes\" vote to stay in the USSR; Moldovans in Gagauzia, however, boycotted the referendum. Many Gagauz supported the Moscow coup attempt, further straining relations with Chişinău. However, when the Moldovan parliament voted on whether Moldova should become independent, six of the twelve Gagauz deputies voted in favor.\nGagauzia declared itself independent as the Gagauz Republic on 19 August 1991—the day of the Moscow coup attempt—followed by Transnistria in September. Some believe that these moves prompted the nationalist Moldovan Popular Front to tone down its pro-Romanian line and speak up for the rights of minorities. In February 1994, President Mircea Snegur, opposed to Gagauz independence, promised a Gagauz autonomous region. Snegur also opposed the suggestion that Moldova become a federal state made up of three \"republics\": Moldova, Gagauzia, and Transnistria. In 1994, the Moldovan parliament awarded \"the people of Gagauzia\" the right of \"external self-determination\" should the status of the country change. This means that in the event that Moldova decided to join another country (by all accounts this referred to Romania), the Gagauzians' would be entitled to decide whether to remain or not a part of the new state by means of a self-determination referendum.\n\nOn 23 December 1994, the Moldovan parliament produced a peaceful resolution to the dispute by passing the \"Law on the Special Legal Status of Gagauzia\" (\"Gagauz Yeri\"). Gagauzia became a \"national-territorial autonomous unit\" with three official languages—Gagauz, Russian and Moldovan/Romanian—and the date is now a Gagauzian holiday. Many European human-rights organizations recognize Gagauzia as a successful model for resolving ethnic conflict.\n\nAs a result of a referendum to determine Gagauzia's borders, thirty settlements (three towns and twenty-seven villages) expressed their desire to be included in the Gagauz Autonomous Territorial Unit. In 1995, George Tabunshik was elected to serve as the Governor (\"Bashkan\") of Gagauzia for a four-year term, as were the deputies of the local parliament, \"The People's Assembly\" (\"Halk Topluşu\") and its chairman Peter Pashali.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30166820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30166820", "title": "Human trafficking in Norway", "text": "Human trafficking in Norway\n\nNorway is a destination and to a lesser extent, a transit and origin country for women and girls subjected to human trafficking, specifically forced prostitution, and men and women subjected to forced labor in the domestic service and construction sectors. Some foreign migrants may also be subjected to forced labor in the health care sector. Victims identified in 2009 originated in 45 countries, but most originated in Nigeria or other African countries and Eastern Europe. Often, victims were from minority groups in their countries of origin. Criminal organizations were often involved in human trafficking in Norway, and trafficking schemes varied by victims’ countries of origin. Children in Norwegian refugee centers and migrants denied asylum were vulnerable to human trafficking in Norway; 44 children went missing from refugee centers during the 2009 calendar year.\n\nThe Government of Norway fully complies with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking. The government continued to increase the number of victims identified and forge partnerships with NGOs in Norway and in countries where trafficking victims have originated. Norway convicted and punished a police officer under Norway’s anti-trafficking law, sending a strong message of intolerance for trafficking-related official complicity.\n\nThe U.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 1\" in 2017.\n\nThe government made some progress in prosecuting sex trafficking offenders and demonstrated a strong response to official complicity in human trafficking. Norway prohibits all forms of trafficking in persons through Criminal Code Section 224, which prescribes a maximum penalty of five years’ imprisonment – a penalty sufficiently stringent and commensurate with punishments for other serious offenses, such as rape. Law enforcement officials initiated 31 sex trafficking and 7 labor trafficking investigations in 2009, compared with 41 sex trafficking and four labor trafficking investigations initiated in 2008. Norwegian authorities prosecuted seven people under Section 224 for sex trafficking and initiated no forced labor prosecutions in 2009, compared with one forced labor and five sex trafficking prosecutions in 2008. In 2009, six people were convicted of sex trafficking under Section 224, compared with six convictions obtained in 2008. All of the trafficking offenders convicted in 2009 received jail time; there were no suspended sentences. The average sentence was over 30 months’ imprisonment. In January 2010, a Norwegian police officer was convicted and sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment for human trafficking under Section 224. Some government officials suggested that analysis on why some trafficking investigations do not progress to prosecutions or why other sex trafficking cases have been downgraded to charges of pimping would be useful. Some NGOs suggested police drop cases due to a lack of resources for investigations. Norwegian authorities forged partnerships with counterparts in at least 15 countries to advance specific trafficking investigations during the reporting period.\n\nThe Norwegian government made progress in the identification and protection of trafficking victims during the reporting period. Through employment of proactive identification procedures, government officials reported identifying 292 possible trafficking victims, 80 of whom were forced labor victims, in 2009 – an increase from 256 victims, 71 of whom were forced labor victims, identified in 2008. In September 2009, the government conducted a three-day seminar on trafficking victim identification for NGOs and over 200 officials, including police, prosecutors, child welfare specialists, asylum reception center workers, and immigration authorities. The government provided direct assistance services to victims as well as funding for NGOs offering victim services. The government gave trafficking victims in Norway shelter in domestic violence centers, medical care, vocational training, stipends, Norwegian classes, and legal assistance. The government encouraged victims to participate in trafficking investigations and prosecutions; all victims who assisted in the conviction of their traffickers received $20,000 or more in restitution from the government for their trafficking experiences. Victims were permitted to stay in Norway without conditions during a six-month reflection period, a time for victims to receive immediate care and assistance while they consider whether to assist law enforcement – 73 applied for the reflection period, of which 50 were approved and 23 were denied. After the reflection period and deciding to cooperate with the police, 20 victims applied for longer-term residency permits, and 10 received such permits. Trafficking victims reportedly were not penalized during the reporting period for unlawful acts committed as a direct result of being trafficked. The government funded the IOM to provide voluntary and safe repatriation to foreign trafficking victims.\n\nThe government made some progress in preventing human trafficking during the reporting period. The government acknowledged trafficking as a serious problem, but it did not fund a national anti-trafficking awareness campaign during the reporting period. In an effort to reduce the demand for commercial sex acts, Norway charged 334 people with the purchase or attempted purchase of sex services. Norway coordinated the government’s anti-trafficking efforts through an anti-trafficking inter-ministerial commission chaired by a senior advisor at the Ministry of Justice. The inter-ministerial commission systematically monitored Norway’s anti-trafficking efforts through annual statistical reports, which are available to the public. The government enhanced its global partnership against trafficking by disbursing approximately $17.8 million in anti-trafficking aid over the last two years to international organizations and NGOs operating outside Norway, including in Nigeria. The government provides funding to ECPAT in an effort to reduce the demand for participation in international child sex tourism by Norwegian nationals. The government provided anti-human trafficking training to Norwegian troops prior to their deployment overseas on international peacekeeping missions.\n"}
{"id": "25174869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25174869", "title": "Innovation competition", "text": "Innovation competition\n\nAn innovation competition is a method or process of the industrial process, product or business development. It is a form of social engineering, which focuses to the creation and elaboration of the best and sustainable ideas, coming from the best innovators.\n\nThere are few major works, like Terwiesch and Ulrich, who exclusively focus on innovation competitions. They argue, that while innovation is seen as a largely creative endeavor, it can also be rigorously managed by viewing and structuring the innovation process as a collection of “opportunities”. Profitable innovation comes not from increasing investments in R&D, but from systematically identifying more exceptional opportunities. Terwiesch and Ulrich show how to design and run innovation tournaments: pitting competing opportunities against one another, and then consistently filtering out the weakest ones until only those with the highest profit potential remain.\n\nThe aims and the design principles of the innovation competitions are noted in the literature as follows:\n\n\nIn September 2009, Netflix awarded 1 million US dollars to the winner of Netflix prize—the team who by 10% improved the accuracy of predictions about the extent that people enjoy a movie based on their past movie preferences.\n\nOn Nov. 16, 2010, General Electric will announce the winners of its multimillion-dollar challenge to find new, breakthrough ideas to create cleaner, more efficient and economically viable grid technologies, and to accelerate the adoption of smart grid technologies.\n\nSince 2010, the IXL Innovation Olympics has provided a platform to source breakthrough ideas, for CEOs from Fortune 100 Companies, using teams from MBA programs across the globe. As an example, IBM used this platform to source breakthrough ideas for increaesing accessibility to screens and devices for the aging population.<ref> September 6, 2016, Nicola Palmarini.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4865842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4865842", "title": "Jur Modo people", "text": "Jur Modo people\n\nJur Modo is an ethnic group in Sudan numbering about 50,000. They have a rural way of life, living in relatively isolated compounds. They speak Jur Modo language, a Nilo-Saharan language, though some speakers also use Arabic, Dinka, Moru, Baka, or Zande. The principal religion is animism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36403701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36403701", "title": "Kerei", "text": "Kerei\n\nKerei is a Kazakh tribe that originated in the Altay region and fled into modern-day Kazakhstan in the early 13th century after being defeated by Genghis Khan.\n\nQarai Turks\n"}
{"id": "17227647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17227647", "title": "Komi De", "text": "Komi De\n\nKomi De (Ԁ ԁ; italics: \"Ԁ ԁ\") is a letter of the Molodtsov alphabet, a version of Cyrillic. It was used only in the writing of the Komi language in the 1920s and in the Mordvin language. The lowercase form resembles the lowercase of the Latin letter D (d \"d\") and its uppercase form resembles an upside-down capital Latin letter P or a reversed soft sign. \n\nKomi De represents the voiced dental plosive , like the pronunciation of in \"din\". This sound is represented by the Cyrillic letter De (Д д) in other Cyrillic alphabets.\n\n"}
{"id": "482957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=482957", "title": "Komi peoples", "text": "Komi peoples\n\nThe Komi are a Uralic ethnic group whose homeland is in the north-east of European Russia around the basins of the Vychegda, Pechora and Kama rivers. They mostly live in the Komi Republic, Perm Krai, Murmansk Oblast, Khanty–Mansi Autonomous Okrug, and Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug in the Russian Federation. \n\nThe Komi belong to the Permian branch of the Finno-Ugric peoples and are divided into eight sub-groups. Their northernmost sub-group is also known as the Komi-Izhemtsy (from the name of the river Izhma) or Iz'vataz. This group numbers 15,607 (2002). This group is distinct for its more traditional, strongly subsistence based economy which includes reindeer husbandry. Komi-Permyaks (125,235 people) live in Perm Krai and Kirov Oblast of Russia.\n\nThere have been at least three names for the Komis: \"Permyaks\", \"Zyrians\" () and \"Komi\", the last being the self-designation of the people.\n\nThe name Permyaks firstly appeared in the 10th century in Russian sources and came from the ancient name of the land between the Mezen River and Pechora River – \"Perm\" or \"Great Perm\" (). Several origins of the name have been proposed but the most accepted is from Veps \"Peräma\" \"back, outer or far-away land\" from Veps \"perä\" \"back, extreme\" and \"ma\" \"land\". In Old Norse and Old English it was known as \"Bjarmaland\" and \"Beormas\" respectively but those Germanic names might designate some other place than the Russian \"Perm\". Since the 20th century the name has been applied only to the southern Komi (Komi-Permyaks) in Perm Krai. In Russian \"permyak\" also means \"an inhabitant of Perm or Perm Krai\" independently from ethnicity.\n\nThe name for the northern Komis – Zyrians – has a more contradictory origin. It exists since the 14th century and it had many different forms in various Russian sources such as \"Seryan, Siryan, Syryan, Suryan\" and \"Ziryan, Zyryan\" (), but the latter finally became predominant. Turkin believed that it may come from a small local tribe of the Komis (probably named \"saran\") which first met the Russians hence the name became default for all the northern Komis. The neighbour Finno-Uralic people call the Komis with similar names: Khanty \"sərän, sərån, săran, sārån\", Mansi \"sarän\", Nenets \"sānnğr, saran\", Udmurt \"sara-kum\".\n\nThe name Komi is the endonym for all groups of the people. It was first recorded by ethnographers in the 18th century. It originates from the Finno-Ugric word meaning \"man, human\": Komi \"kom\", Udmurt \"kum\", Mansi \"kom, kum\", Khanty \"xum\", Selkup \"qum\", Hungarian \"hím\" \"male\". The origin from the name of the Kama River is disproved though some scholars (like Paula Kokkonen) favour this version.\n\nKomi people are divided into two main groups and several smaller subgroups. The Komi have been traditionally named after the rivers where they live: \n\nThe Komi language belongs to the Permian branch of the Uralic family. There is limited mutual intelligibility with Udmurt. There are two main dialects: Zyrian and Permyak. Until the 18th century, Komi was written in the Old Permic alphabet introduced by Saint Stephen of Perm in the 14th century. Cyrillic was used from the 19th century and briefly replaced by the Latin alphabet between 1929 and 1933. The Komi language is currently written in Cyrillic, adding two extra letters - Іі and Ӧӧ - to represent vowel sounds which do not exist in Russian. The first book to be printed in Komi (a vaccination manual) appeared in 1815.\n\nMost Komis belong to the Russian Orthodox Church, but their religion often contains traces of pre-Christian beliefs (see Komi mythology). A large number of Komis are Old Believers.\n\nBased on linguistic reconstruction, the prehistoric Permians are assumed to have split into two peoples during the first millennium BC: the Komis and the Udmurts. By the 16th-17th centuries, the Komis further divided into the Komi-Permyaks (who remained in the Kama River basin) and the Komi-Zyrians (who migrated north).\n\nFrom the 12th century the Russians began to expand into the Perm region and the Komis came into contact with Novgorod. Novgorodian traders travelled to the region in search of furs and animal hides. The Novgorodians referred to the southern Komi region as \"the Great Perm\". Komi dukes unified the Great Perm with its centre at the stronghold of Cherdyn. As the Middle Ages progressed, Novgorod gave way to Moscow as the leading Russian power in the region. In 1365, Dmitry Donskoy, Prince of Moscow, gave Stephen of Perm the task of converting the region to Christianity. Stephen's mission led to the creation of the eparchy of Perm in 1383 and, after his death, Stephen became the patron saint of the Komis. He also devised an alphabet for the Komi language. Nevertheless, some Komis resisted Christianisation, notably the shaman Pama. The Duke of Perm only accepted baptism in 1470 (he was given the Christian name Mikhail), possibly in an attempt to stave off Russian military pressure in the region. Mikhail's conversion failed to stop an attack by Moscow which seized Cherdyn in 1472. Mikhail was allowed to keep his title of duke but was now a vassal of Moscow. The duchy only survived until 1505 when Mikhail's son Matvei was replaced by a Russian governor and Komi independence came to an end.\n\nIn the 1500s many Russian migrants began to move into the region, beginning a long process of colonisation and attempts at assimilating the Komis. Syktyvkar (\"Ust-Sysolsk\" before 1930) was founded as the chief Russian city in the region in the 18th century. The Russian government established penal settlements in the north for criminals and political prisoners. There were several Komi rebellions in protest against Russian rule and the influx of Slav settlers, especially after large numbers of freed serfs arrived in the region from the 1860s. A national movement to revive Komi culture also emerged.\n\nRussian rule in the area collapsed after World War I and the revolutions of 1917. In the subsequent Russian Civil War, the Bolsheviks fought the Allies for control of the region. The Allied interventionist forces encouraged the Komis to set up their own independent state with the help of political prisoners freed from the local penal colonies. After the Allies withdrew in 1919, the Bolsheviks took over. They promoted Komi culture but increased industrialisation damaged the Komis' traditional way of life. Stalin's purges of the 1930s devastated the Komi intelligentsia, who were accused of \"bourgeois nationalism\". The remote and inhospitable region was also regarded as an ideal location for the prison camps of the Gulag. The influx of political prisoners and the rapid industrialisation of the region as a result of World War II left the Komis a minority in their own lands. Stalin carried out further purges of the Komi intellectual class in the 1940s and 1950s, and Komi language and culture was suppressed. Since the end of the Soviet Union in 1991, the Komis have reasserted their claims to a separate identity.\n\nA study on north-eastern-european populations, published in March 2013, found that Komi-Zyrians form a distinct pole of genetic diversity.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1392681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1392681", "title": "Learning organization", "text": "Learning organization\n\nIn business management, a learning organization is a company that facilitates the learning of its members and continuously transforms itself. The concept was coined through the work and research of Peter Senge and his colleagues.\n\nLearning organizations develop as a result of the pressures facing modern organizations and enables them to remain competitive in the business environment.\n\nThere is a multitude of definitions of a learning organization as well as their typologies. \nPeter Senge stated in an interview that a learning organization is a group of people working together collectively to enhance their capacities to create results they really care about. Senge popularized the concept of the learning organization through his book \"The Fifth Discipline\". In the book, he proposed the following five characteristics: \n\nThis combination encourages organizations to shift to a more interconnected way of thinking. Organizations should become more like communities that employees can feel a commitment to.\n\nOrganizations do not organically develop into learning organizations; there are factors prompting their change. As organizations grow, they lose their capacity to learn as company structures and individual thinking becomes rigid. When problems arise, the proposed solutions often turn out to be only short-term (single-loop learning instead of double-loop learning) and re-emerge in the future. To remain competitive, many organizations have restructured, with fewer people in the company. This means those who remain need to work more effectively. To create a competitive advantage, companies need to learn faster than their competitors and to develop a customer responsive culture. Chris Argyris identified that organizations need to maintain knowledge about new products and processes, understand what is happening in the outside environment and produce creative solutions using the knowledge and skills of all within the organization. This requires co-operation between individuals and groups, free and reliable communication, and a culture of trust.\n\nOne of the main benefits being a learning organization offers is a competitive advantage. This competitive advantage can be founded on different strategies, which can be acquired by organizational learning. One way of gaining a competetive advantage is strategic flexibility. The continuous inflow of new experience and knowledge keeps the organization dynamic and prepared for change. In an ever-changing institutional environment this can be a key factor for an advantage. Better management of an organizations explorative investments and exploitative acting can be a benefit of a learning organization, too. Next, a competitive advantage of a company can be gained by lower prices and better quality of products. Through organizational learning both cost leadership and differentiation strategies are possible. The ability to reconfigure actions based on needs and environment avoids the tradeoff between the two . Overall the customer performance of learning organizations might be better, which is the direct and measurable channel, that establishes a competitive advantage . Another important aspect is innovation. Innovation and learning are closely related. While encouraging people to learn and develop, a more innovative environment is commonly generated, innovative ideas coming from e.g. communities of practice can result in greater overall organizational learning .\n\nOther benefits of a learning organization are:\n\nEven within or without learning organization, problems can stall the process of learning or cause it to regress. Most of them arise from an organization not fully embracing all the necessary facets. Once these problems can be identified, work can begin on improving them.\n\nSome organizations find it hard to embrace personal mastery because as a concept it is intangible and the benefits cannot be quantified; personal mastery can even be seen as a threat to the organization. This threat can be real, as Senge points out, that 'to empower people in an unaligned organization can be counterproductive'. In other words, if individuals do not engage with a shared vision, personal mastery could be used to advance their own personal visions. In some organizations a lack of a learning culture can be a barrier to learning. An environment must be created where individuals can share learning without it being devalued and ignored, so more people can benefit from their knowledge and the individuals becomes empowered. A learning organization needs to fully accept the removal of traditional hierarchical structures.\n\nResistance to learning can occur within a learning organization if there is not sufficient buy-in at an individual level. This is often encountered with people who feel threatened by change or believe that they have the most to lose. They are likely to have closed mind sets, and are not willing to engage with mental models. Unless implemented coherently across the organization, learning can be viewed as elitist and restricted to senior levels. In that case, learning will not be viewed as a shared vision. If training and development is compulsory, it can be viewed as a form of control, rather than as personal development. Learning and the pursuit of personal mastery needs to be an individual choice, therefore enforced take-up will not work.\n\nIn addition, organizational size may become the barrier to internal knowledge sharing. When the number of employees exceeds 150, internal knowledge sharing dramatically decreases because of higher complexity in the formal organizational structure, weaker inter-employee relationships, lower trust, reduced connective efficacy, and less effective communication. As such, as the size of an organizational unit increases, the effectiveness of internal knowledge flows dramatically diminishes and the degree of intra-organizational knowledge sharing decreases.\n\nProblems with Senge's vision include a failure to fully appreciate and incorporate the imperatives that animate modern organizations; the relative sophistication of the thinking he requires of managers (and whether many in practice are up to it); and questions regarding his treatment of organizational politics. It is certainly difficult to find real-life examples of learning organizations (Kerka 1995). There has also been a lack of critical analysis of the theoretical framework.\n\nBased on their study of attempts to reform the Swiss Postal Service, Matthias Finger and Silvia Bűrgin Brand (1999) provide a useful listing of more important shortcomings of the learning organization concept. They conclude that it is not possible to transform a bureaucratic organization by learning initiatives alone. They believe that by referring to the notion of the learning organization it was possible to make change less threatening and more acceptable to participants. 'However, individual and collective learning, which has undoubtedly taken place, has not really been connected to organizational change and transformation'. Part of the issue, they suggest, has to do with the concept of the learning organization itself. They argue that the concept of the learning organization:\n\nThe book \"The Dance of Change\" states there are many reasons why an organization may have trouble in transforming itself into a learning organization. The first is that an organization does not have enough time. Employees and management may have other issues that take priority over trying to change the culture of their organization. The team may not be able to commit the time if an institution does not have the appropriate help or training. For an organization to be able to change, it needs to know the steps necessary to solve the problems it faces. As a solution, a mentor or coach who is well versed in the learning organization concept may be necessary.\n\nAlso, the change may not be relevant to the organization's needs. Time should be spent on the actual issues of the organization and its daily issues. To combat this challenge, a strategy must be built. The organization should determine what its problems are before entering into the transformation. Training should remain linked to business results so that it is easier for employees to connect the training with everyday issues.\n\nA usual challenge with many organizations is the lack of concentration on personal development while focusing mainly on professional development which is more likely to have a direct contribution to organization's performance whereas personal development's positive results appear more in the long run and less visibly.\n\nAs for the leader, it may be challenging not to consider one's own personal vision as the organization's shared vision.\n\nSome of the issues that learning organizations were designed to address within institutions is fragmentation, competition and reactiveness. Fragmentation is described as breaking a problem into pieces. For example, each organization has an accounting department, finance, operations, IT and marketing. Competition occurs when employees are trying to do better or 'beat' others in an assignment instead of collaborating. Reactiveness occurs when an organization changes only in reaction to outside forces, rather than proactively initiating change.\n\nInappropriate habits while organizing team meetings can effect negatively. Meetings should be prepared in time, agenda drawn up and enough time dedicated to focus on the subjects. Because best results in team learning form through discipline, it is essential to have an agenda, make atmosphere open and respect others: avoid interruption, be interested and respond.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32576555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32576555", "title": "List of British Press Awards Scoops of the Year", "text": "List of British Press Awards Scoops of the Year\n\nThe Scoop of the Year award is one of the honours given annually by the British Press Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "52735894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52735894", "title": "List of TWAS Prize laureates", "text": "List of TWAS Prize laureates\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3359500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3359500", "title": "Luxembourg Income Study", "text": "Luxembourg Income Study\n\nLIS Cross-National Data Center, formerly known as the Luxembourg Income Study (LIS), is a non-profit organization registered in Luxembourg which produces a cross-national database of micro-economic income data for social science research. The project started in 1983 and is headquartered in Luxembourg. The database includes over 300 datasets from about 50 high- and middle-income countries, with some countries represented for over 30 years. Nationally representative household income survey data is commonly, though not exclusively, provided by the participant country's national statistics collection agency (e.g. Statistics Canada; the Australian Bureau of Statistics). These and other agencies make annual financial contributions which support the database production and maintenance.\n\nThe LIS database contains anonymised demographic, income, labour market, and expenditure information at two different levels of analysis (household and persons). The data have, as far as is practical, been transformed to a structure which make different national data equivalent. Data access is only provided for research projects in the social sciences, commercial use is not permitted. For data security reasons the datasets cannot be downloaded or directly accessed. After being granted permission to use the data, users submit SPSS, SAS or Stata programs under their username and password to a remote server. The statistical results are automatically returned via email. \n\nDatasets in the database are grouped in intervals referred to as \"waves\": 1980, 1985, 1990, 1995, 2000, 2004, 2007, 2010, 2013. The LIS data are only suitable for cross-sectional analysis as households cannot be linked over time. \n\nResearchers must agree to publish their papers in the LIS working paper series. This does not preclude other forms of publication. As of 2015, there are over 600 research papers in the series. The data are particularly suitable for cross-national comparisons of poverty and inequality and there are many papers on these topics in the working paper series.\n\nLIS has recently included more middle-income countries. In 2007, a cross-national database on wealth, named 'LWS', became available. It contains data from a subset of the countries participating in the LIS Database. \n\nThe LIS website contains registration for data access, dataset contents, self-teaching tutorials, and a working paper series which includes abstracts and full texts.\n\nAustralia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, United Kingdom, United States, Uruguay\n\n"}
{"id": "33214402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33214402", "title": "Láá Láá Bwamu language", "text": "Láá Láá Bwamu language\n\nLáá Láá Bwamu, also known as asKàdenbà is a Gur language of Burkina Faso.\n"}
{"id": "1976419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1976419", "title": "Léon Wurmser", "text": "Léon Wurmser\n\nLéon Wurmser (; born 31 January 1931, Zurich) is a Swiss psychoanalyst, now Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at West Virginia University and a training and supervising analyst of the New York Freudian Society.\n\nWurmser was formerly Professor of Psychiatry and Director of the Alcohol and Drug Abuse Program at University of Maryland, Baltimore.\n\nHe is the author of more than 350 scientific papers, 15 books, and several book chapters and essays. His works deal with issues of masochism and depression, focusing on problems of shame, guilt, resentment, and the \"archaic superego,\" both in the individual and in culture, religion, and history. Wurmser has written papers and one book on Judaism: \"The World of Ideas and Values of Judaism: A Psychoanalytic View\" (published in German). He also deals with the understanding and treatment of drug addicts, drawing on his experience running drug rehabilitation programs for addicts. In recent years, he has published several papers and one book on jealousy and envy, in partnership with German psychoananalyst Dr. Heidrun Jarass.\n\nHis approach to psychoanalysis is Freudian. His major works, published in English and German, include \"The Mask Of Shame\" (), published in 1981 and frequently reprinted; \"The Hidden Dimension: Psychodynamics of Compulsive Drug Use \" (1978, ) on the psychodynamics of drug addiction; \"The Power of the Inner Judge\" (2000, ); and \"Torment Me, But Don't Abandon Me: Psychoanalysis of the Severe Neuroses in a New Key \" (2007, ).\n\nIn 2004, Wurmser was awarded the \"Journal of the American Psychoanalytic Association\"'s Journal Prize for a paper titled \"Psychoanalytic Reflections on 9/11, Terrorism and Genocidal Prejudice: Roots and Sequels\".\n\nHe currently resides in Towson, Maryland, where he maintains a private practice. He supervises colleagues in the United States and in Europe in psychoanalysis and psychotherapy. He lectures in Europe and is an honorary member of a number of psychoanalytic societies in Germany and in Austria.\n\nWurmser, Leon, Jarass, Heidrun, ed., \"Nothing Good is Allowed to Stand - An Integrative View of the Negative Therapeutic Reaction\" - Routledge, 2013\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50977236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50977236", "title": "Marc Wadsworth", "text": "Marc Wadsworth\n\nMarc Wadsworth is a British activist, formerly a member of the Labour Party. \n\nHe describes himself as an anti-racist campaigner and was the founder member of Anti-Racist Alliance and anti-racist campaigns involving the murdered teenager Stephen Lawrence. Wadsworth was expelled from the Labour Party on 27 April 2018 for bringing the party into disrepute. This decision related to a confrontation on 30 June 2016 between him and Labour MP, Ruth Smeeth at the launch of the publication of the Chakrabarti Inquiry report into allegations of anti-semitism and other forms of racism in the Labour Party.\n\nBorn in Birmingham, England, Wadsworth spent his first six years in a children's home and was then raised in foster care for a further year. He recalls being the only black student at Ottershaw School, a boys' boarding school in Surrey. Initially bullied, he took up amateur boxing at 13, inspired by Muhammad Ali, whose politics he would later describe as Black Pride and Black Power. \n\nHis father George \"Busha\" Rowe had emigrated to Britain from Jamaica in 1944 and volunteered in the Royal Air Force in World War II. Wadsworth has said that his mother is Finnish. Wadsworth made a documentary film \"Divided by Race, United in War and Peace\" about his late father's fellow Caribbean war veterans and their struggles against colour prejudice and racism. The BBC remade the film, with Wadsworth as a producer, and, in May 2015, \"Fighting for King and Empire: Britain’s Caribbean Heroes\" was broadcast. The film was subsequently shown at the Frontline Club in September 2015. In November 2016 the film was repeated by the BBC during Remembrance Sunday week.\n\nWadsworth helped to secure Black Sections (caucuses) within the Labour Party, first tabled in 1983, to further the cause of greater African, Caribbean and Asian political representation. All four of Britain's first minority African, Caribbean and Asian members of parliament of modern times were members. He was then founder of the Anti-Racist Alliance (ARA) in 1991, and helped set up the campaign for justice after the 1993 murder of Stephen Lawrence. The ARA succeeded in getting human rights lawyer Geoffrey Bindman to draft a bill to make racial harassment and racial violence specific criminal offences, which proposals actually became law years later. Wadsworth lost his position as ARA leader in 1994 following disputes with a far-left political faction in the organisation called Socialist Action and Ken Livingstone, who supported them.\n\nIn January 2006, Wadsworth became founding editor of The-Latest.com, \"Britain's first dedicated citizen journalism news portal\", which has been a springboard for several successful journalists, including Julie Stewart-Binks, Phil Simms of the \"Henley Standard\", and Jonathan Brooker.\n\nIn 2008, a comment made to Wadsworth by an Australian strategist and spin doctor, James McGrath, who worked for the then London mayor Boris Johnson, about African-Caribbean people being welcome to go back home if they did not like the capital's newly elected Conservative leadership, led to the aide being fired. \"Press Gazette\" hailed The-Latest.Com's scoop that sparked the controversy with the headline: \"Citizen journalism takes first UK scalp\".\n\nWadsworth has been a reporter and presenter for BBC radio and television and for ITV's \"Thames News\" (London), at one point interviewing Margaret Thatcher, who he recalls walked out when he asked about the vote by her colleagues to effectively oust her from power.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2012, Wadsworth was a lecturer in journalism at City University London. In 2012 he was awarded an M.A. in Contemporary British History from King's College London, passing with distinction.\n\nAs a journalist, Wadsworth has written for a range of publications, including national newspapers, and has also been involved with community journalism training courses. He twice served on the National Executive Council of the National Union of Journalists. His first book, \"Comrade Sak\", a political biography of British Indian Labour and Communist MP Shapurji Saklatvala (1874–1936), was published in 1998 by Peepal Tree Press.\n\nIn March 2016, The-Latest.com identified Wadsworth as a committee member of \"Black Momentum\" also known as \"Momentum Black ConneXions\" (MBC), in reference to the pro-Corbyn campaign group Momentum.\n\nAt a launch, to which the media were invited, on 30 June 2016 for the publication of the Chakrabarti Inquiry report into allegations of anti-semitism and racism in the Labour Party, \"The Daily Telegraph\" journalist Kate McCann questioned Corbyn about a \"Momentum member\" handing out a \"leaflet\" calling for the deselection of anti-Corbyn MPs. Wadsworth had earlier given McCann a copy of his \"press release\" at her request. In response to the question about him, Wadsworth responded by publicly stating that he saw \"The Telegraph\" journalist handing a copy of the press release to Labour MP Ruth Smeeth, and thus claimed to have spotted who was \"working hand in hand\", a reference to anti-Corbyn Labour MPs supposedly colluding with the right-wing press. Smeeth expressed outrage and walked out, followed by McCann, leading to a storm of media controversy and a complaint from Smeeth that Wadsworth had used an antisemitic conspiracy theory to attack her; Wadsworth stated he did not know Smeeth is Jewish. Shami Chakrabarti, who chaired the meeting, claimed she had firmly told Wadsworth he had misused his opportunity to ask a question, and that Corbyn had agreed. \n\nWadsworth later explained that he had been volunteering as MBC's media officer and handing out an MBC press release; that it was this same document that Smeeth had asked McCann for in front of him; that he asked her who she was and she replied \"Ruth Smeeth Labour MP\"; and that he did not recognise the name. Smeeth said she was \"verbally attacked\" and accused of being part of a media conspiracy. She added: \"it is beyond belief that someone could come to the launch of a report on antisemitism in the Labour Party and espouse such vile conspiracy theories about Jewish people, which were ironically highlighted as such in Ms Chakrabarti's report\".\nOn 1 July, Wadsworth told a radio station he had been expelled from the Labour Party based solely on media reports. At the time of his expulsion, he had been a member of the Labour Party for one month, having resigned his membership in 2003. After receiving a letter from Wadsworth's lawyer, Harriet Wistrich, Labour changed this to a suspension. On 4 July, Jeremy Corbyn was quizzed about Wadsworth at several points in a Parliamentary Select Committee hearing, and called Wadsworth's comments about Smeeth wrong and inappropriate but refused to declare them racist or anti-semitic without clarifying the details. On 8 July, the National Union of Journalists announced that Wadsworth had been elected as chairman of its Black Members Council (BMC), adding that the BMC fully supported him after the media had \"slanderously accused him of anti-semitism\". \n\nAt the first day's hearing by the National Constitutional Committee (NCC) into Wadsworth's future in the Labour Party, around 40 Labour MPs and peers accompanied Smeeth to ensure she was able to be present to give evidence. The Labour MPs Chris Williamson and Clive Lewis acted as character witnesses for Wadsworth. On 27 April 2018, the National Constitutional Committee found that two charges of a breach of s.2.1.8 of the Labour Party Rule Book by Wadsworth were proven. The NCC determined that the sanction for this breach of party rules would be expulsion from membership of the Labour Party.\n"}
{"id": "9914962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9914962", "title": "Matiur Rahman Mallik", "text": "Matiur Rahman Mallik\n\nMatiur Rahman Mallik (died 24 January 1969) was a Bengali national activist. He was killed by the Pakistani police during 1969 uprising in East Pakistan. He received the Independence Day Award from the Government of Bangladesh in 2018.\n\nMalik was the son of Azhar Ali Mallik from Sabujbagh, Dhaka. He was a Standard IX student of Nabakumar Institution when he took part in a street march demanding autonomy for the then future country Bangladesh. The uprising has historic significance and its spirit awakened people to fight for democracy and basic human rights, as it eventually lead to the Independence of Bangladesh.\n\nBangladesh observe 24 January as Mass Uprising Day. Every year different social, cultural organisations and political parties do elaborate programmes in observance of the day. Malik's monument was erected at Nabakumar Institute, Bakshibazar, Dhaka.\n"}
{"id": "58490135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58490135", "title": "Misogamy", "text": "Misogamy\n\nMisogamy is an aversion or hatred of marriage. The word dates from the mid-17th century and combines the Greek \"misos\" (hatred) with \"gamos\" (marriage). Merriam-Webster date the first use of the word to around 1656.\n\nThe idea of misogamy was important in the Christian church during the medieval period as a prerequisite for the celibacy required to occupy the highest positions in the church. It was developed in the philosophy of Theophrastus who became the \"canonical authority on philosophic misogamy throughout the Middle Ages\". Sara E. Diaz writes that two types of misogamy existed during the period, one advising all men against marriage, and another more limited form advising wise men against marriage.\n\nThe literature of misogamy has been surveyed by Katharina Wilson and Elizabeth Makowski in their book \"Wykked Wyves and the Woes of Marriage: Misogamous Literature from Juvenal to Chaucer\", published by the State University of New York in 1990.\n"}
{"id": "42765479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42765479", "title": "National Collaborative for Women's History Sites", "text": "National Collaborative for Women's History Sites\n\nThe National Collaborative for Women's History Sites (NCWHS) is a nonprofit US membership organization that aims to promote the preservation and interpretation of women's history through museums and historic sites. The NCWHS mission is to help ensure \"the preservation and interpretation of sites and locales that bear witness to women's participation in American life and to make women's contributions to history visible so that all women's experience and potential are fully valued.\" The organization produces publications (\"Revealing Women's History: Best Practices at Historic Sites,\" and \"Women's History: Sites and Resources\"); hosts workshops and webinars; offers panels at professional conferences, encourages the development of heritage trails; and creates and shares resources aimed to help public historians better incorporate women's history into historic sites. These programs are often developed in partnership with other history organizations, including the National Park Service, the National Women’s History Project, the Organization of American Historians and other preservation agencies and history membership organizations as well as a range of historic sites to expand and support the venues and ways in which women's history is shared with public audiences.\n\nThe NCWHS was created in October 2001 by representatives of more than twenty historical sites linked to American women and some twenty others from organizations devoted to preserving women's history; noting that only about 4% of the nation's historic sites interpreted topics in women's history, the founding members aimed to support the efforts of small local groups working to expand the presence of women's history in their own communities by helping form networks and by serving as a clearinghouse for information and resources. Today the membership includes curators, interpreters, managers, history consultants, faculty members, students and a range of other history professionals as well as museums and historic sites and members of the general public. The organization is governed by a board of directors, chaired by Heather Huyck. The NCWHS is headquartered at the Evanston History Center in Evanston, Illinois.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58350887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58350887", "title": "National Environmental Award", "text": "National Environmental Award\n\nThe National Environmental Award () was an annual honor given by Spain's Ministry of Environment from 1986 to 2009. Several prizes were awarded, some of them bearing the names of distinguished naturalists such as Félix Rodríguez de la Fuente and . In 2009, its last year, each of the two awardees was endowed with 22,000 euros.\n"}
{"id": "22118617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22118617", "title": "Picaroons Traditional Ales", "text": "Picaroons Traditional Ales\n\nPicaroons Traditional Ales are a production of the Northampton Brewing Company Ltd., which was started in 1995 and is located in Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada.\n\nThe Picaroons brand is sold in numerous taverns and restaurants in New Brunswick. It is also sold in bottles in New Brunswick liquor outlets and in a few other provinces as well. The company operates a small brewtique located on Queen Street in downtown Fredericton. This location includes a micro-brewery and a retail outlet, selling various Picaroons themed drink memorabilia and collectibles. \n\nA 'Picaroon' was a common tool used in the logging industry in New Brunswick.\n\nIn 2009, Picaroons became one of the first breweries in Canada to launch its own online social network at PicaroonsPub.com \n\nIn 2010, Picaroons partnered with The Bar Towel, a leading Ontario craft beer web site, to distribute its beers in Ontario for the first time.\nIn 2011, Picaroons won brewery of the year at the Canadian Brewing Awards.\nSeveral year-round and seasonal ales are produced at the Picaroons brewery.\nBrewing is done with malted barley imported from England and Germany, as well as whole hops from England, New Zealand and the North American west coast. The particulars of each batch are logged online for public access. This information includes information such as the ingredients, start date and time, and the specific gravity of the water used in a batch, etc.\n\nPicaroons year-round beers are:\n\nSeasonal and special beer:\n"}
{"id": "52443619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52443619", "title": "Pondichérien diaspora", "text": "Pondichérien diaspora\n\nThe Pondichérien diaspora is a demographic group of people from Puducherry state of India who have emigrated and settled in other parts of the world, significantly in France, Réunion and the French Caribbean islands of Martinique and Guadeloupe. There are around 300,000 of them living around the world.\n\nMany left to work in the possessions of the French Empire via its holdings in Pondichéry in Réunion and the French Caribbean islands of Martinique and Guadeloupe (See Malabars).\n\nTamil settlement in the French department of Réunion started as far back as 1848 as indentured labour, mainly from Pondichéry and Karaikal, the French territories in Southern India. There are now about 120,000 Tamils living in Réunion or \"Malabars\" as they are known there with a large number of Hindu temples run by voluntary organisations where Hindu and Tamil cultural links are preserved well.\n\nTamil traders from Pondicherry used to visit the Seychelles for purposes of timber trade followed by settlements of Tamils from Tamil Nadu for trading purposes. Later, a trading community was in place here mainly of Tamils and many of them got integrated with the local community. Now there about 4000 Tamils in the trading business as well as in other professions.\n\nTamil migration to the French West Indies was mainly sailings from Pondicherry and Karaikal during the years 1853 to 1883 and since 1893 almost all of them got well integrated with the people there.\n\nThe Pondicherry diaspora community in Guadeloupe is estimated to be approximately 55,000 in a population of over 400,000. However, ethnicity statistics are not done by the French government. There are several associations to promote Indian culture in Guadeloupe, usually run by people of Indian origin. They are fairly active in organising cultural activities in all the principal towns, namely, Pointe-a-Pitre, Le Moule, Port-Louis, Capesterre-Belle-Eau and Saint-Claude.\n\nThe Pondicherry diaspora community in Martinique of majority are descendants of indentured labourers from India who were brought to the island in the nineteenth century. Between 5 and 10% of the population is of Tamil Indian origin.\n"}
{"id": "35455251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35455251", "title": "Prostitution in the Democratic Republic of the Congo", "text": "Prostitution in the Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\nProstitution in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is legal but related activities are prohibited. The Congolese penal code punishes pimping, running a bawdy house or brothel, the exploitation of debauchery or prostitution, as well as forced prostitution. Activities that incite minors or promote the prostitution of others have been criminalised. The government does little to enforce the law. During the colonial era and the years that followed independence, the Ministry of Health issued calling cards identifying professional sex workers and provided them with medical health checks. However, this system was abandoned in the 1980s. Public order laws are sometimes used against sex workers. Street prostitutes report harassment, violence and extortion from the police. UNAIDS estimated there are 2.9 million sex workers in the country.\n\nFood insecurity and extreme poverty are now the main reasons why women in the country become prostitutes. Traders make up the majority of clients, along with officials working for national and international NGOs. Many sex workers earn between $2 and $5 and payment is sometimes made in the form of food or other goods. Prostitutes working in bars and nightclubs receive between $10 and $20, and are known as \"Londoners\" as they dress like British girls on a Saturday night out. \"VIP prostitution\" operates from hotels, with sex workers earning between $50 and $100. Many Congolese prostitutes are from abroad or homeless children who have been accused of witchcraft.\n\nThe Democratic Republic of the Congo (DR Congo) was one of the first African countries to recognize HIV, registering cases of HIV among hospital patients as early as 1983. UNAIDS reported in 2016 that there was an HIV prevalence of 5.7% amongst sex workers, compared with 0.7% amongst the general population. There is a reluctance to use condoms amongst the clients of sex workers, and will pay double the price for unprotected sex. Médecins Sans Frontières distribute condoms to sex workers and encourage their use.\n\nChild prostitution is a problem in the country but is generally ignored by the authorities. NGOs such as Association de Solidarité Internationale (ASI) and Reiper work to try and alleviate the problem.\n\nThere is evidence of sexual abuse of children by soldiers during the Continental and Civil wars. Between 2004 and 2008 there were 140 recorded instances of soldiers paying for sex with underage girls. The soldiers were Congolese, Indian and from the UN Peace Corps. There are accusations that members of the Congolese and Indian military were involved with local criminals in a child prostitution ring.\n\nChild prostitution in the country takes many forms:\n\nThe DRC is a source, destination, and transit country for women, and children subjected to sex trafficking. Women and girls were forced to marry or serve as sex slaves for members of some armed groups. Some street children are suspected to be exploited in sex trafficking. An NGO reported some families send their children to Kinshasa, after being promised educational opportunities for the children; however, upon arrival, the children are subjected to sex trafficking. Some Congolese women and girls subjected to forced marriage are highly vulnerable to sex trafficking. Congolese women and children migrate to other countries in Africa, the Middle East, and Europe, where some are exploited in sex trafficking.\n\nThe 2006 sexual violence statute (Law 6/018) prohibits sexual slavery, sex trafficking, and child and forced prostitution and prescribes penalties ranging from five to 20 years imprisonment.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks the Democratic Republic of the Congo as a Tier 3 country.\n"}
{"id": "32817141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32817141", "title": "Ragnar Nurkse's balanced growth theory", "text": "Ragnar Nurkse's balanced growth theory\n\nThe balanced growth theory is an economic theory pioneered by the economist Ragnar Nurkse (1907–1959). The theory hypothesises that the government of any underdeveloped country needs to make large investments in a number of industries simultaneously. This will enlarge the market size, increase productivity, and provide an incentive for the private sector to invest.\n\nNurkse was in favour of attaining balanced growth in both the industrial and agricultural sectors of the economy. He recognised that the expansion and inter-sectoral balance between agriculture and manufacturing is necessary so that each of these sectors provides a market for the products of the other and in turn, supplies the necessary raw materials for the development and growth of the other.\n\nNurkse and Paul Rosenstein-Rodan were the pioneers of balanced growth theory and much of how it is understood today dates back to their work.\n\nNurkse's theory discusses how the poor size of the market in underdeveloped countries perpetuates its underdeveloped state. Nurkse has also clarified the various determinants of the market size and puts primary focus on productivity. According to him, if the productivity levels rise in a less developed country, its market size will expand and thus it can eventually become a developed economy. Apart from this, Nurkse has been nicknamed an export pessimist, as he feels that the finances to make investments in underdeveloped countries must arise from their own domestic territory. No importance should be given to promoting exports.\n\nThe size of a market assumes primary importance in the study of what induces investment in a country. Ragnar Nurkse referenced the work of Allyn A. Young to assert that inducement to invest is limited by the size of the market. The original idea behind this was put forward by Adam Smith, who stated that division of labour (as against inducement to invest) is limited by the extent of the market.\n\nAccording to Nurkse, underdeveloped countries lack adequate purchasing power. \"Low purchasing power\" means that the real income of the people is low, although in monetary terms it may be high. If the money income were low, the problem could easily be overcome by expanding the money supply; however, since the meaning in this context is real income, expanding the supply of money will only generate inflationary pressure. Neither real output nor real investment will rise. It is to be noted that a low purchasing power means that domestic demand for commodities is low. Apart from encompassing consumer goods and services, this includes the demand for capital as well.\n\nThe size of the market determines the incentive to invest irrespective of the nature of the economy. This is because entrepreneurs invariably take their production decisions by taking into consideration the demand for the concerned product. For example, if an automobile manufacturer is trying to decide which countries to set up plants in, he will naturally only invest in those countries where the demand is high. He would prefer to invest in a developed country, where though the population is lesser than in underdeveloped countries, the people are prosperous and there is a definite demand.\n\nPrivate entrepreneurs sometimes resort to heavy advertising as a means of attracting buyers for their products. Although this may lead to a rise in demand for that entrepreneur's good or service, it does not actually raise the aggregate demand in the economy. The demand merely shifts from one provider to another. Clearly, this is not a long-term solution.\n\nRagnar Nurkse concluded,\n\nAccording to Nurkse, expanding the size of the market is crucial to increasing the inducement to invest. Only then can the vicious circle of poverty be broken. He mentioned the following pertinent points about how the size of the market is determined:\n\nNurkse emphasised that Keynesian theory shouldn't be applied to underdeveloped countries because they don't face a lack of effective demand in the way that developed countries do. Their problem is to do with a lack of real purchasing power due to low productivity levels. Thus, merely increasing the supply of money will not expand the market but will in fact cause \"inflationary pressure\".\n\nNurkse argued against the notion that a large population implies a large market. Though underdeveloped countries have a large population, their levels of productivity are low. This results in low levels of per capita real income. Thus, consumption expenditure is low, and savings are either very low or completely absent. On the other hand, developed countries have smaller populations than underdeveloped countries but by virtue of high levels of productivity, their per capita real incomes are higher and thus they create a large market for goods and services.\n\nNurkse also refuted the claim that if a country's geographical area is large, the size of its market also ought to be large. A country may be extremely small in area but still have a large effective demand. For example, Japan. In contrast, a country may cover a huge geographical area but its market may still be small. This may occur if a large part of the country is uninhabitable, or if the country suffers from low productivity levels and thus has a low National Income.\n\nThe notion that transport costs and trade barriers hinder the expansion of the market is age-old. Nurkse emphasised that tariff duties, exchange controls, import quotas and other non-tariff barriers to trade are major obstacles to promoting international cooperation in exporting and importing. More specifically, due to high transport costs between nations, producers do not have an incentive to export their commodities. As a result, the amount of capital accumulation remains small. To address this problem, the United Nations produced a report in 1951 with solutions for underdeveloped countries. They suggested that they can expand their markets by forming customs unions with neighbouring countries. Also, they can adopt the system of preferential taxation or even abolish customs duties altogether. The logic was that once customs duties are removed, transport costs will fall. Consequently, prices will fall and thus the demand will rise. However, Nurkse, as an export pessimist, did not agree with this view. Export pessimism is a trade theory which is governed by the idea of \"inward looking growth\" as opposed to \"outward looking growth\". (See Import substitution industrialization)\n\nOften, it is true that a company's private endeavour to increase the demand for its products succeeds due to the extensive use of advertisement and other sales promotion technique. However, Nurkse argues that such activities cannot succeed at the macro level to increase a country's aggregate demand level. He calls this the \"macroeconomic paradox\".\n\nNurkse stressed productivity as the \"primary determinant of the size of the market\". An increase in productivity (defined as the output per unit input) increases the flow of goods and services in the economy. As a response, consumption also rises. Hence, underdeveloped economies should aim to raise their productivity levels in all sectors of the economy, in particular agriculture and industry.\n\nFor example, in most underdeveloped economies, the \"technology\" used to carry out agricultural activities is backward. There is a low degree of mechanisation coupled with rain dependence. So while a large proportion of the population (70-80%) may be actively employed in the agriculture sector, the contribution to the Gross Domestic Product may be as low as 40%. This points to the need to increase output per unit input and \"output per head\". This can be done if the government provides irrigation facilities, high-yielding variety seeds, pesticides, fertilisers, tractors etc. The positive outcome of this is that farmers earn more income and have a higher purchasing power (real income). Their demand for other products in the economy will rise and this will provide industrialists an incentive to invest in that country. Thus, the size of the market expands and improves the condition of the underdeveloped country.\n\nNurkse is of the opinion that Say's Law of markets operates in underdeveloped countries. Thus, if the money incomes of the people rise while the price level in the economy stays the same, the size of the market will still not expand till the real income and productivity levels rise. To quote Nurkse,\n\nCiting the limited size of the market as the main impediment in economic growth, Nurkse reasons that an increase in productivity can create a virtuous circle of growth. Thus, a large scale investment programme in a wide array of industries simultaneously is the answer. The increase in demand for one industry will lead to an increase in demand for another industry due to \"complementarity of demands\". As Say's Law states, \"supply creates its own demand\".\n\nHowever, Nurkse clarified that the finance for this development must arise to as large an extent as possible from the underdeveloped country itself i.e. domestically. He stated that financing through increased trade or foreign investments was a strategy used in the past - the 19th century - and its success was limited to the case of the United States of America. In reality, the so-called \"new countries\" of the United States of America (which separated from the British empire) were high income countries to begin with. They were already endowed with efficient producers, effective markets and a high purchasing power. The point Nurkse was trying to make was that USA was rich in resource endowment as well as labour force. The labour force had merely migrated from Britain to USA, and thus their level of skills were advanced to begin with. This situation of outward led growth was therefore unique and not replicable by underdeveloped countries.\n\nIn fact, if such a strategy of financing development from outside the home country is undertaken, it creates a number of problems. For example, the foreign investors may carelessly misuse the resources of the underdeveloped country. This would in turn limit that economy's ability to diversify, especially if natural resources were plundered. This may also create a distorted social structure. Apart from this, there is also a risk that the foreign investments may be used to finance private luxury consumption. People would try to imitate Western consumption habits and thus a balance of payments crisis may develop, along with economic inequality within the population.\n\nAnother reason exports cannot be promoted is because in all likelihood, an underdeveloped country may only be skilled enough to promote the export of primary goods, say agricultural goods. However, since such commodities face inelastic demand, the extent to which they will sell in the market is limited. Although when population is at a rise, additional demand for exports may be created, Nurkse implicitly assumed that developed countries are operating at the replacement rate of population growth. For Nurkse, then, exports as a means of economic development are completely ruled out.\n\nThus, for a large-scale development to be feasible, the requisite capital must be generated from within the country itself, and not through export surplus or foreign investment. Only then can productivity increase and lead to increasing returns to scale and eventually create virtuous circles of growth.\n\nAfter World War II, a debate about whether a country should introduce \"financial planning\" to develop itself or rely on \"private entrepreneurs\" emerged. Nurkse believed that the subject of who \"should\" promote development does not concern economists. It is an administrative problem. The crucial idea was that a large amount of well dispersed investment should be made in the economy, so that the market size expands and leads to higher productivity levels, increasing returns to scale and eventually the development of the country in question. However, it should be noted that most economists who favoured the balanced growth hypothesis believed that only the state has the capacity to take on the kind of heavy investments the theory propagates. Further, the gestation period of such lumpy investments is usually long and private sector entrepreneurs do not normally undertake such high risks.\n\nRagnar Nurkse's balanced growth theory too has been criticised on a number of grounds. His main critic was Albert O. Hirschman, the pioneer of the strategy of unbalanced growth. Hans W. Singer also criticised certain aspects of the theory.\n\nHirschman stressed the fact that underdeveloped economies are called underdeveloped because they face a \"lack of resources\", maybe not natural resources, but resources such as skilled labour and technology. Thus, to hypothesise that an underdeveloped nation can undertake large scale investment in many industries of its economy simultaneously is unrealistic due to the paucity of resources. To quote Hirschman,\n\nHans Singer asserted that the balanced growth theory is more applicable to cure an economy facing a cyclical downswing. Cyclical downswing is a feature of an advanced stage of sustained growth rather than of the vicious cycle of poverty.\nHirschman also stated that during conditions of slack activity in developed countries, the stock of resources, machines and entrepreneurs are merely unemployed, and are present as idle capacity. So in this situation, simultaneous investment in a large number of sectors is a well-suited policy. The various economic agents are temporarily unemployed and once the inducement to invest starts operating, the slump will be overcome. However, for an underdeveloped economy, where such resources are absent, this principle doesn't fit.\n\nAnother contention was Nurkse's approval of Say's Law, which theorises that there is no overproduction or glut in the economy. Supply (production of goods and services) creates a matching demand for the output and this results in the entire output being sold and consumed. However, Keynes stated that Say's Law is not operational in any country because people do not spend their entire income - a fraction of it is saved for future consumption. Thus, according to Nurkse's critics, his assumption of Say's Law being operational in underdeveloped countries needs greater justification. Even if the section of savers is few, the tenet of putting emphasis on supply rather than demand has been widely discredited.\n\nNurkse states that if demand for the output of one sector rises, due to the complementary nature of demand, the demand for the output of other industries will also experience a rise. Paul Rosenstein-Rodan spoke of a similar concept called \"indivisibility of demand\" which hypothesises that if large investments are made in a large number of industries simultaneously, an underdeveloped economy can become developed due to the phenomenon of complementary demand. However, both Nurkse and Rosenstein-Rodan only took into consideration the situation of industries that produce complementary goods. There are substitute goods too, which are in competition with each other. Thus if the state pumps in large investments into the car industry, for example, it will naturally lead to a rise in the demand for petrol. But if the state makes large scale investments in the coffee sector of a country, the tea sector will suffer.\n\nHans Singer suggested that Nurkse's theory makes dubious assumptions about the underdeveloped economy. For example, Nurkse assumes that the economy starts with nothing at hand. However, an economy usually starts at a position which reflects the previous investment decisions undertaken in the country, and at any given moment, an imbalance already exists. So the logical step would be to take on those investment programmes which compliment the existing imbalance in the economy. Clearly, such an investment cannot be a balanced one. If an economy makes the mistake of setting out to make a balanced investment, a new imbalance is likely to appear which will require still another \"balancing investment\" to bring equilibrium, and so on and so forth.\n\nHirschman believed that Nurkse's balanced growth theory wasn't in fact a theory of growth. Growth implies the gradual transformation of an economy from one stage to the chronologically next stage. It entails the series of actions which leads the economy from a stage of infancy to that of maturity. However, the balanced growth theory involves the creation of a brand new, self-sufficient modern industrial economy being laid over a stagnant, self-sufficient traditional economy. Thus, there is no transformation. In reality, a dual economy will come into existence, where two separate economic sectors will begin to coexist in one country. They will differ on levels of development, technology and demand patterns. This may create inequality in the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2530289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2530289", "title": "Robert Treat Paine (philanthropist)", "text": "Robert Treat Paine (philanthropist)\n\nRobert Treat Paine, Jr. (October 28, 1835-August 11, 1910) was a Boston lawyer, philanthropist and social reformer and great grandson of the signer of the Declaration of Independence. An alumnus of Boston Latin School, he is most widely known for his work as chairman of the building committee of Boston's Trinity Church in Copley Square, for his leadership of 19th century Boston philanthropists, for his summer home in Waltham, Massachusetts, and for his experiments in building housing for low-and middle-income workers.\n\nPaine's brick row-house development on Greenwich and Sussex streets in Roxbury, Massachusetts is listed on the National Register of Historic Places as part of the Frederick Douglass Square Historic District. Another of his housing experiments, an 1890s 100-house subdivision between Round Hill and Sunnyside streets in Jamaica Plain, has been deemed eligible for nomination to the National Register.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "827556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=827556", "title": "Sanam (dance)", "text": "Sanam (dance)\n\nSanam, or senem, also written as sainaimu () in Chinese, is an ethnic music and dance widespread among the Uyghur people in the Chinese autonomous region of Xinjiang. It is commonly performed during weddings, festive occasions, and parties. The music normally starts slowly and gradually becomes faster, upon which the dances also become more vivid, especially at the end. \n\nSanam music is a suite that ranged from six to thirteen songs played usually for dancing. It however may also be played as purely instrumental version by naghra-sunay bands. The songs start with a moderate four-beat dance rhythm and move gradually towards a faster four-beat. \n\nThere are various types of sanam music, and the major oasis towns have their own distinctive vocal style and suite of songs. Often the name of the place is mentioned before the word \"sanam\" in local variations. \n\nDancers' movements include characteristic neck movements, and movements of elbows, eyes and fingers. The dancers may also improvise, following the tempo of the music. Each region may have their own distinctive dance.\n\nDancers and singers are separated.\n"}
{"id": "49143273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49143273", "title": "Sherry Chen (hydrologist)", "text": "Sherry Chen (hydrologist)\n\nXiafen \"Sherry\" Chen, 59, was a hydrologist at the National Weather Service (NWS), a federal government institution in Ohio. She was falsely accused of spying and arrested in October 2014. She was originally charged with four felonies, including that she had illegally downloaded data about national infrastructure and made false statement of telling federal agents that she last seen a Chinese official in 2011, not 2012. Five months later (in March 2015), prosecutors dropped all charges against Mrs. Chen without explanation.\n\nEven though without any wrongdoing, Chen has been in debt for over 200 thousand dollars due to legal fees.\n\nChen worked on the modeling and forecasting of flood threats along the Ohio River at National Weather Service. NWS mission statement states that “NWS data and products form a national information database and infrastructure which can be used by other governmental agencies, the private sector, the public, and the global community.” Part of Chen's job responsibilities were to answer public inquires about daily weather forecasts and river forecasts.\n\nChen's case was triggered by her trip to Beijing to visit her elderly parents in 2012. One of her relatives had a dispute with local government about a water pipeline and approached Chen for help since Mr. Jiao Yong at China’s Ministry of Water Resources is Chen's former classmate in hydrology. Chen had not seen Mr. Jiao for many years and was reluctant to get involved first. But she was pushed into it due to family obligation. Chen was able to get a 15-minute meeting with Mr. Jiao and told him about her relative’s complaint. Towards the end of the meeting, Mr. Jiao said his office was trying to fund the repairs of China’s aging reservoir system, and was curious how this may work in the U.S. As a favor to a former classmate and also for a fellow professional in the same field, Chen agreed to help.\n\nOnce returned to USA, Chen sent Mr. Jiao some public websites and also asked around at work to see if any of her co-workers could help. Her boss introduced her to talk to a colleague at Water Management Division of the US Army Corps of Engineers (ACE). The colleague said Mr. Jiao could talk to her directly. Chen then emailed Mr. Jiao to contact the colleague directly, without following up further. Later, the colleague reported Chen to the government security agency, suggesting that Chen may be a Chinese spy and may be stealing government information. Since then, Chen had unwittingly become a Chinese spy suspect by the US government.\n\nIn June 2013, Chen was interviewed in her office by two security agents from the Department of Commerce. It was a 7-hour marathon interrogation with no food, water, or break. The two agents told Chen that she could not tell this interview to anyone, and that she didn’t need a lawyer. Chen tried to collaborate and told the agents everything she knew. The agents failed to find any “spying” evidence. But they still claimed Chen was “lying” to federal investigators because Chen couldn’t quite recall some of the dates or events.\n\nOn October 20, 2014. Six FBI agents took her away in handcuffs in front of her colleagues. The Department of Justice (DOJ) issued an indictment with a punishment of 25 years in jail and $1M in fines. The original charges included accusing Chen of stealing data, intentionally exceeded authorized access to a database and two false statements, meaning that she lied to investigators.\n\nChen's lawyer, Peter R. Zeidenberg, a partner at Arent Fox in Washington, D.C., defended her case. He found fatal flaws in the case and filed three motions pointing out these flaws and request DOJ to have the case dismissed. The prosecutor went back to grand jury to fix the problems and came back with eight charges and added another prosecutor on his team. After extensive interviews of witness including almost of Chen's coworkers, search of the history of Chen's bank account statements over twenty years since she came to the US, personal and official email accounts, computer activities, the government decided to drop all the charges against Chen in March 2015.\n"}
{"id": "222034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222034", "title": "Social software", "text": "Social software\n\nSocial software, also known as Web 2.0 applications or social apps, include communication and interactive tools often based on the Internet. Communication tools typically handle the capturing, storing and presentation of communication, usually written but increasingly including audio and video as well. Interactive tools handle mediated interactions between a pair or group of users. They focus on establishing and maintaining a connection among users, facilitating the mechanics of conversation and talk. Although we do not have a generally accepted definition, social software generally refers to software that makes collaborative behaviour, the organisation and moulding of communities, self-expression, social interaction and feedback possible for individuals. Another important element of the existing definition of \"social software\" is that it allows for the structured mediation of opinion between people, in a centralized or self-regulating manner. The most improved area for social software is that Web 2.0 applications can all promote cooperation between people and the creation of online communities more than ever before.\n\nAn \"instant messaging\" application or client allows one to communicate with another person over a network in real time, in relative privacy. Popular, consumer-oriented clients include AOL Instant Messenger, Google Hangouts, ICQ, Meebo, MSN Messenger, Pidgin (formerly maig), and Yahoo! Messenger. Instant messaging software designed for use in business includes IBM Sametime, XMPP and Microsoft Messenger.\n\nOne can add friends to a contact or buddy list by entering the person's email address or messenger ID. If the person is online, their name will typically be listed as available for chat. Clicking on their name will activate a chat window with space to write to the other person, as well as read their reply.\n\nInternet Relay Chat (IRC) and other online chat technologies allow users to join and communicate with many people at once, publicly. Users may join a pre-existing chat room or create a new one about any topic. Once inside, you may type messages that everyone else in the room can read, as well as respond to/from others. Often there is a steady stream of people entering and leaving. Whether you are in another person's chat room or one you've created yourself, you are generally free to invite others online to join you in that room.\n\nThe goal of collaborative software, also known as groupware, such as Moodle, Landing pages, Enterprise Architecture, and Sharepoint, is to allow subjects to share data – such as files, photos, text, etc. for the purpose of project work or school work. The intent is to first form a group and then have them collaborate. Clay Shirky defines social software as \"software that supports group interaction\". Since groupware supports group interaction (once the group is formed), it would consider it to be social software.\n\nOriginally modeled after the real-world paradigm of electronic bulletin boards of the world before internet was widely available, \"internet forums\" allow users to post a \"topic\" for others to review. Other users can view the topic and post their own comments in a linear fashion, one after the other. Most forums are public, allowing anybody to sign up at any time. A few are private, gated communities where new members must pay a small fee to join, like the Something Awful Forums.\n\nForums can contain many different categories in a hierarchy, typically organized according to topics and subtopics. Other features include the ability to post images or files or to quote another user's post with special formatting in one's own post. Forums often grow in popularity until they can boast several thousand members posting replies to tens of thousands of topics continuously.\n\nThere are various standards and claimants for the market leaders of each software category. Various add-ons may be available, including translation and spelling correction software, depending on the expertise of the operators of the bulletin board. In some industry areas, the bulletin board has its own commercially successful achievements: free and paid hardcopy magazines as well as professional and amateur sites.\n\nCurrent successful services have combined new tools with the older newsgroup and mailing list paradigm to produce hybrids like Yahoo! Groups and Google Groups. Also as a service catches on, it tends to adopt characteristics and tools of other services that compete. Over time, for example, wiki user pages have become social portals for individual users and may be used in place of other portal applications.\n\nIn the past, web pages were only created and edited by web designers that had the technological skills to do so. Currently there are many tools that can assist individuals with web content editing. Wikis allow novices to be on the same level as experienced web designers because wikis provide easy rules and guidelines. Wikis allow all individuals to work collaboratively on web content without having knowledge of any markup languages. A wiki is made up of many content pages that are created by its users. Wiki users are able to create, edit, and link related content pages together. The user community is based on the individuals that want to participate to improve the overall wiki. Participating users are in a democratic community where any user can edit any other user's work.\n\nExamples include Wikipedia, Wiktionary, the original Portland Pattern Repository wiki, MeatballWiki, CommunityWiki and Wikisource. For more detail on free and commercially available wiki systems see Comparison of wiki software.\n\nBlogs, short for web logs, are like online journals for a particular person. The owner will post a message periodically, allowing others to comment. Topics often include the owner's daily life, views on politics or a particular subject important to them.\n\nBlogs mean many things to different people, ranging from \"online journal\" to \"easily updated personal website.\" While these definitions are technically correct, they fail to capture the power of blogs as social software. Beyond being a simple homepage or an online diary, some blogs allow comments on the entries, thereby creating a discussion forum. They also have blogrolls (i.e. links to other blogs which the owner reads or admires) and indicate their social relationship to those other bloggers using the XFN social relationship standard. Pingback and trackback allow one blog to notify another blog, creating an inter-blog conversation. Blogs engage readers and can build a virtual community around a particular person or interest. Examples include Slashdot, LiveJournal, BlogSpot. Blogging has also become fashionable in business settings by companies who use software such as IBM Connections.\n\nSimultaneous editing of a text or media file by different participants on a network was first demonstrated on research systems as early as the 1970s, but is now practical on a global network. Collaborative real-time editing is now utilized, for example, in film editing and on services such as Google Docs.\n\nMany prediction market tools have become available (including some free software) that make it easy to predict and bet on future events. This software a more formal version of social interaction, although it qualifies as a robust type of social software.\n\nSocial network services allow people to come together online around shared interests, hobbies or causes. For example, some sites provide meeting organization facilities for people who practice the same sports. Other services enable business networking (Ryze, XING and LinkedIn) and social event meetups (Meetup).\n\nSome large wikis have effectively become social network services by encouraging user pages and portals.\n\nAnyone can create their own social networking service using hosted offerings like Ning, or more flexible, installable software like Dolphin Pro, Elgg Social Networking Engine, BuddyPress, SocialEngine, Oxwall, Status.net or Concursive's ConcourseConnect.\n\nSocial network search engines are a class of search engines that use social networks to organize, prioritize or filter search results. There are two subclasses of social network search engines: those that use explicit social networks and those that use implicit social networks.\n\n\nLacking trustworthy explicit information about such viewpoints, this type of social network search engine mines the web to infer the topology of online social networks. For example, the NewsTrove search engine infers social networks from content - sites, blogs, pods and feeds - by examining, among other things, subject matter, link relationships and grammatical features to infer social networks.\n\nDeliberative social networks are webs of discussion and debate for decision-making purposes. They are built for the purpose of establishing sustained relationships between individuals and their government. They rely upon informed opinion and advice that is given with a clear expectation of outcomes.\n\nCommercial social networks are designed to support business transaction and to build a trust between an individual and a brand, which relies on opinion of product, ideas to make the product better, enabling customers to participate with the brands in promoting development, service delivery and a better customer experience. An example of these networks is Dell IdeaStorm.\n\nA social guide recommending places to visit or contains information about places in the real world, such as coffee shops, restaurants and wifi hotspots, etc. One such application is Wikivoyage.\n\nSome web sites allow users to post their list of bookmarks or favorite websites for others to search and view them. These sites can also be used to meet others through sharing common interests. Additionally, many social bookmarking sites allow users to browse through websites and content shared by other users based on popularity or category. As such, use of social bookmarking sites is an effective tool for search engine optimization and social media optimization for webmasters. Examples include digg, Delicious, StumbleUpon, reddit, and furl.\n\nEnterprise bookmarking is a method of tagging and linking any information using an expanded set of tags to capture knowledge about data. It collects and indexes these tags in a web-infrastructure server residing behind the firewall. Users can share knowledge tags with specified people or groups, shared only inside specific networks, typically within an organization. Examples of this software are Knowledge Plaza, Jumper 2.0, IBM Dogear, and Connectbeam.\n\nSocial viewing allows multiple users to aggregate from multiple sources and view online videos together in a synchronized viewing experience.\n\nIn social cataloging much like social bookmarking, this software is aimed towards academics. It allows the user to post a citation for an article found on the internet or a website, online database like Academic Search Premier or LexisNexis Academic University, a book found in a library catalog and so on. These citations can be organized into predefined categories or a new category defined by the user through the use of tags. This method allows academics researching or interested in similar areas to connect and share resources.\n\nThis applications allows visitors to keep track of their collectibles, books, records and DVDs. Users can share their collections. Recommendations can be generated based on user ratings, using statistical computation and network theory. Some sites offer a buddy system, as well as virtual \"check outs\" of items for borrowing among friends. Folksonomy or tagging is implemented on most of these sites.\n\nSocial online storage applications allow their users to collaboratively create file archives containing files of any type. Files can either be edited online or from a local computer, which has access to the storage system. Such systems can be built upon existing server infrastructure (e.g. GDrive) or leverage idle resources by applying P2P technology (e.g. Wuala). Such systems are social because they allow public file distribution and direct file sharing with friends.\n\nSocial network analysis tools analyze the data connection graphs within social networks, and information flow across those networks, to identify groups (such as cliques or key influencers) and trends. They fall into two categories: professional research tools, such as Mathematica, used by social scientists and statisticians, and consumer tools, such as Wolfram Alpha, which emphasise ease-of-use. See list at Social network analysis software.\n\nVirtual Worlds are services where it is possible to meet and interact with other people in a virtual environment reminiscent of the real world. Thus the term virtual reality. Typically, the user manipulates an avatar through the world, interacting with others using chat or voice chat.\n\nMMOGs are virtual worlds (also known as virtual environments) that add various sorts of point systems, levels, competition and winners and losers to virtual world simulation. Commercial MMOGs (or, more accurately, massively multiplayer online role-playing games or MMORPGs,) include EverQuest and World of Warcraft.\n\nAnother development are the worlds that are less game-like or not games at all. Games have points, winners and losers. Instead, some virtual worlds are more like social networking services like MySpace and Facebook, but with 3D simulation features. Examples include Second Life, ActiveWorlds, The Sims Online and There.\n\nVery often a real economy emerges in these worlds, extending the non-physical service economy within the world to service providers in the real world. Experts can design dresses or hairstyles for characters, go on routine missions for them and so on, and be paid in game money to do so. This emergence has resulted in expanding social possibility and also in increased incentives to cheat. In the case of Second Life, the in-world economy is one of the primary features of the world. Some MMOG companies even have economists employed full-time (for example, CCP Games with Eve Online) to monitor their in-game economic systems.\n\nThere are many other applications with social software characteristics that facilitate human connection and collaboration in specific contexts. Social Project Management and e-learning applications are among these.\n\nVarious analyst firms have attempted to list and categorize the major social software vendors in the marketplace. Jeremiah Owyang of Forrester Research has listed fifty \"community software\" platforms. Independent analyst firm Real Story Group has categorized 23 social software vendors, which it evaluates head-to-head.\n\nUse of social software for politics has also expanded drastically especially over 2004–2006 to include a wide range of social software, often closely integrated with services like phone trees and deliberative democracy forums and run by a candidate, party or caucus.\n\nOpen politics, a variant of open-source governance, combines aspects of the free software and open content movements, promoting decision-making methods claimed to be more open, less antagonistic, and more capable of determining what is in the public interest with respect to public policy issues. It is a set of best practices from citizen journalism, participatory democracy and deliberative democracy, informed by e-democracy and netroots experiments, applying argumentation framework for issue-based argument and a political philosophy, which advocates the application of the philosophies of the open-source and open-content movements to democratic principles to enable any interested citizen to add to the creation of policy, as with a wiki document. Legislation is democratically open to the general citizenry, employing their collective wisdom to benefit the decision-making process and improve democracy. Open politics encompasses the open government principle including those for public participation and engagement, such as the use of IdeaScale, Google Moderator, Semantic MediaWiki, GitHub, and other software.\n\nCollective forms of online journalism have emerged more or less in parallel, in part to keep the political spin in check.\n\nCommunication tools are generally asynchronous. By contrast, interactive tools are generally synchronous, allowing users to communicate in real time (phone, net phone, video chat) or near-synchronous (IM, text chat).\n\nCommunication involves the content of talk, speech or writing, whereas interaction involves the interest users establish in one another as individuals. In other words, a communication tool may want to make access and searching of text both simple and powerful. An interactive tool may want to present as much of a user's expression, performance and presence as possible. The organization of texts and providing access to archived contributions differs from the facilitation of interpersonal interactions between contributors enough to warrant the distinction in media.\n\nEmerging technological capabilities to more widely distribute hosting and support much higher bandwidth in real time are bypassing central content arbiters in some cases.\n\nWidely viewed, \"virtual presence\" or telepresence means being present via intermediate technologies, usually radio, telephone, television or the internet. In addition, it can denote apparent physical appearance, such as voice, face and body language.\n\nMore narrowly, the term virtual presence denotes presence on World Wide Web locations, which are identified by URLs. People who are browsing a web site are considered to be virtually present at web locations. Virtual presence is a social software in the sense that people meet on the web by chance or intentionally. The ubiquitous (in the web space) communication transfers behavior patterns from the real world and virtual worlds to the web. Research has demonstrated effects\nof online indicators\n\nSocial software may be better understood as a \"set\" of debates or design choices, rather than any particular list of tools. Broadly conceived, there are many older media such as mailing lists and Usenet fora that qualify as \"social\". However, most users of this term restrict its meaning to more recent software genres such as blogs and wikis. Others suggest that the term \"social software\" is best used not to refer to a single type of software, but rather to the use of two or more modes of computer-mediated communication that result in \"community formation.\" In this view, people form online communities by combining one-to-one (e.g. email and instant messaging), one-to-many (Web pages and blogs) and many-to-many (wikis) communication modes. Some groups schedule real life meetings and so become \"real\" communities of people that share physical lives.\n\nMost definers of social software agree that they seem to facilitate \"bottom-up\" community development. The system is classless and promotes those with abilities. Membership is voluntary, reputations are earned by winning the trust of other members and the community's missions and governance are defined by the members themselves.\n\nCommunities formed by \"bottom-up\" processes are often contrasted to the less vibrant collectivities formed by \"top-down\" software, in which users' roles are determined by an external authority and circumscribed by rigidly conceived software mechanisms (such as access rights). Given small differences in policies, the same type of software can produce radically different social outcomes. For instance, Tiki Wiki CMS Groupware has a fine-grained permission system of detailed access control so the site administrator can, on a page-by-page basis, determine which groups can view, edit or view the history. By contrast, MediaWiki avoids per-user controls, to keep most pages editable by most users and puts more information about users currently editing in its recent changes pages. The result is that Tiki can be used both by community groups who embrace the social paradigm of MediaWiki and by groups who prefer to have more content control.\n\nBy design, social software reflects the traits of social networks and is consciously designed to let social network analysis work with a very compatible database. All social software systems create links between users, as persistent as the identity those users choose. Through these persistent links, a permanent community can be formed out of a formerly epistemic community. The ownership and control of these links - who is linked and who is not - is in the hands of the user. Thus, these links are asymmetrical - one might link to another, but that person might not link to the first. Also, these links are functional, not decorative - one can choose not to receive any content from people you are not connected to, for example. Wikipedia user pages are a very good example and often contain extremely detailed information about the person who constructed them, including everything from their mother tongue to their moral purchasing preferences.\n\nIn late 2008, independent analyst firm CMS Watch argued that a scenario-based (use-case) approach to examining social software would provide a useful method to evaluate tools and align business and technology needs.\n\nMethods and tools for the development of social software are sometimes summarized under the term Social Software Engineering. However, this term is also used to describe lightweight and community-oriented development practices.\n\nConstructivist learning theorists such as Vygotsky, Leidner and Jarvenpaa have theorized that the process of expressing knowledge aids its creation and that conversations benefit the refinement of knowledge. Conversational knowledge management software fulfills this purpose because conversations, e.g. questions and answers, become the source of relevant knowledge in the organization. Conversational technologies are also seen as tools to support both individual knowledge workers and work units.\n\nMany advocates of Social Software assume, and even actively argue, that users create actual communities. They have adopted the term \"online communities\" to describe the resulting social structures.\n\nChristopher Allen supported this definition and traced the core ideas of the concept back through Computer Supported Cooperative or Collaborative Work (CSCW) in the 1990s, Groupware in the 1970s and 1980s, to Englebart's \"augmentation\" (1960s) and Bush's \"Memex\" (1940s). Although he identifies a \"lifecycle\" to this terminology that appears to reemerge each decade in a different form, this does not necessarily mean that social software is simply old wine in new bottles.\n\nThe augmentation capabilities of social software were demonstrated in early internet applications for communication, such as e-mail, newsgroups, groupware, virtual communities etc. In the current phase of Allen's lifecycle, these collaborative tools add a capability \"that aggregates the actions of networked users.\" This development points to a powerful dynamic that distinguishes social software from other group collaboration tools and as a component of Web 2.0 technology. Capabilities for content and behavior aggregation and redistribution present some of the more important potentials of this media. In the next phase, academic experiments, Social Constructivism and the open source software movement are expected to be notable influences.\n\nClay Shirky traces the origin of the term \"social software\" to Eric Drexler's 1987 discussion of \"hypertext publishing systems\" like the subsequent World Wide Web, and how systems of this kind could support software for public critical discussion, collaborative development, group commitment, and collaborative filtering of content based on voting and rating.\n\n\"Social technologies\" (or \"conversational technologies\") is a term used by organizations (particularly \"network-centric organizations\"). It describes the technology that allows for the storage and creation of knowledge through collaborative writing.\n\nIn 1945, Vannevar Bush described a hypertext-like device called the \"memex\" in his \"The Atlantic Monthly\" article \"As We May Think\".\n\nIn 1962, Douglas Engelbart published his seminal work, \"Augmenting Human Intellect: a conceptual framework.\" In this paper, he proposed using computers to augment training. With his colleagues at the Stanford Research Institute, Engelbart started to develop a computer system to augment human abilities, including learning. Debuting in 1968, the system was simply called the oNLine System (NLS).\n\nIn the same year, Dale McCuaig presented the initial concept of a global information network in his series of memos entitled \"On-Line Man Computer Communication\", written in August 1962. However, the actual development of the internet must be credited to Lawrence G. Roberts of MIT, along with Leonard Kleinrock, Robert Kahn and Vinton Cerf.\n\nIn 1971,Jenna Imrie began a year-long demonstration of the TICCIT system among Reston, Virginia cable television subscribers. Interactive television services included informational and educational demonstrations using a touch-tone telephone. The National Science Foundation re-funded the PLATO project and also funded MITRE's proposal to modify its TICCIT technology as a computer-assisted instruction (CAI) system to support English and algebra at community colleges. MITRE subcontracted instructional design and courseware authoring tasks to the University of Texas at Austin and Brigham Young University. Also during this year, Ivan Illich described computer-based \"learning webs\" in his book \"Deschooling Society\".\n\nIn 1980, Seymour Papert at MIT published \"Mindstorms: children, computers, and powerful ideas\" (New York: Basic Books). This book inspired a number of books and studies on \"microworlds\" and their impact on learning. BITNET was founded by a consortium of US and Canadian universities. It allowed universities to connect with each other for educational communications and e-mail. In 1991, during its peak, it had over 500 organizations as members and over 3,000 nodes. Its use declined as the World Wide Web grew.\n\nIn 1986, Tony Bates published \"The Role of Technology in Distance Education\", reflecting (in 1986!) on ways forward for e-learning. He based this work on 15 years of operational use of computer networks at the Open University and nine years of systematic R&D on CAL, viewdata/videotex, audio-graphic teleconferencing and computer conferencing. Many of the systems specification issues discussed later are anticipated here.\n\nThough prototyped in 1983, the first version of Computer Supported Intentional Learning Environments (CSILE) was installed in 1986 on a small network of Cemcorp ICON computers, at an elementary school in Toronto, Canada. CSILE included text and graphical notes authored by different user levels (students, teachers, others) with attributes such as comments and thinking types which reflect the role of the note in the author's thinking. Thinking types included \"my theory\", \"new information\", and \"I need to understand.\" CSILE later evolved into Knowledge Forum.\n\nIn 1989, Tim Berners-Lee, then a young British engineer working at CERN in Switzerland, circulated a proposal for an in-house online document sharing system which he described as a \"web of notes with links.\" After the proposal was grudgingly approved by his superiors, he called the new system the World Wide Web.\n\nIn 1992, the CAPA (Computer Assisted Personalized Approach) system was developed at Michigan State University. It was first used in a 92-student physics class in the fall of 1992. Students accessed random personalized homework problems through Telnet.\n\nIn 2001, Adrian Scott founded Ryze, a free social networking website designed to link business professionals, particularly new entrepreneurs.\n\nIn February 2002, the suvi.org Addressbook started its service. It was the first service that connected people together. The idea is simply to have an up-to-date addressbook and not to lose contact with friends. Other people on the globe had the same idea. Friendster, Facebook and many other services were successors to this.\n\nIn April 2002, Jonathan Abrams created his profile on Friendster.\n\nIn 2003, Hi5, LinkedIn, MySpace, and XING were launched.\n\nIn February 2004, Facebook was launched.\n\nIn 2004, Levin (in Allen 2004, sec. 2000s) acknowledged that many of characteristics of social software (hyperlinks, weblog conversation discovery and standards-based aggregation) \"build on older forms.\". Nevertheless, \"the difference in scale, standardization, simplicity and social incentives provided by web access turn a difference in degree to a difference in kind.\" Key technological factors underlying this difference in kind in the computer, network and information technologies are: filtered hypertext, ubiquitous web/computing, continuous internet connectivity, cheap, efficient and small electronics, content syndication strategies (RSS) and others. Additionally, the convergence of several major information technology systems for voice, data and video into a single system makes for expansive computing environments with far reaching effects.\n\nIn October 2005, Marc Andreessen (after Netscape and Opsware) and Gina Bianchini co-founded Ning, an online platform where users can create their own social websites and networks. Ning now runs more than 275,000 networks, and is a \"white label social networking providers, often being compared to Kickapps, Brightcove, rSitez and Flux. StudiVZ was launched in November 2005.\n\nIn 2009, the Army's Program Executive Office - Command, Control, and Communications Tactical (PEO-C3T) founded milSuite capturing the concepts of Wiki, YouTube, Blogging, and connecting with other members of the DOD behind a secure firewall. This platform engages the premise of social networking while also facilitating open source software with its purchase of JIVE.\n\nWhen a person or business sends a message to a network of people this generates an\nexponential process that can consume considerable amounts of resources - most importantly human time.\nThis approach can have a beneficial effect on those interested in the message, but can also consume time of people not interested in the message. It can also create in many a social obligation to look - albeit briefly - at the message - particularly when it is from someone you know or consider to be a friend.\n\nWhen a message is completely unwanted and unsolicited, this is a form of information pollution and is often known as spam. When a message is from a network of friends, and wanted by some but not all, it generates negative externalities in that it consumes valuable resources (time).\n\nSome examples :\nBill sends an email or social message to 20 friends. Of these 2 are very interested, 8 become interested,\nthe rest are not interested but may read all or part of the message anyway, spending their time.\nSome of these 20 people will forward the message to their friends. The process repeats - resulting\nin an exponentially increasing consumption of time by those uninterested in the message (as well\nas an exponentially increasing consumption of time by people who are or become interested - which may\ndistract them from other more productive tasks). Eventually, when the expected number of people forwarding\na message drops below 1, the process dies out, but in the interim it may circulate widely - resulting\nin a potentially massive waste of resources. Much of the time wasted will be due to a sense\nof social obligation to at least scan or check on the title of the message.\n\nBill works for ACME company and sends out an email memo or network message to 20 coworkers.\nSome have to read the message (for example if Bill is their boss or a senior person in the hierarchy), others will just scan it - even if they are uninterested. Some may comment on it - sharing the response with multiple recipients, others may forward it to others. Some may not want to read the message, but may feel obligated to read and respond. The outgoing process of sharing or forwarding takes very little time, but may produce exponentially growing time demands on others. Over time, employees may find more of their time devoted to social networking demands at work - including scanning, reading, commenting upon, forwarding, and responding to messages. These social work-obligations may crowd out more productive activities resulting in longer hours with less efficiency.\n\nIn a sense, social networking at work is similar to a large ongoing group meeting.\nSometimes excellent results occur, but other times major amounts of time are wasted.\nSometimes output benefits from everyone's input and ongoing consultation, other times,\nindividual work without constant obligation to check in and gain consensus may be more\nproductive. The output of a \"committee\" is sometimes worse than that of an individual or small team.\n\nAs information supply increases, the average time spent evaluating individual content has to decrease. Eventually, much communication is summarily ignored - based on\nvery arbitrary and rapid heuristics that will filter out the information for example by category. Bad information crowds out the good - much the way SPAM often crowds out potentially useful unsolicited communications. (See also the main article on Information overload).\n\nCyber bullying is different than conventional bullying. Cyber bullying refers to the threat or abuse of a victim by the use of the internet and electronic devices. Victims of cyber bullying can be targeted over social media, email, or text messages. These attacks are typically aggressive, and repetitive in nature. Internet bullies can make multiple email, social media, etc. accounts to attack a victim. Free email accounts that are available to end users can lead a bully to use various identities for communication with the victim. Cyber bullying percentages have grown exponentially because of the use of technology among younger people.\n\nCyber Bullying Statistics 2014\n\n25 percent of teenagers report that they have experienced repeated bullying via their cell phone or on the internet.\nOver half (52 percent) off young people report being cyber bullied.\nEmbarrassing or damaging photographs taken without the knowledge or consent of the subject has been reported by 11 percent of adolescents and teens.\nOf the young people who reported cyber bullying incidents against them, one-third (33 percent) of them reported that their bullies issued online threats.\nOften, both bullies and cyber bullies turn to hate speech to victimize their target. One-tenth of all middle school and high school students have been on the receiving end of ‘hate terms' hurled against them.\nOver half (55 percent) of all teens who use social media have witnessed outright bullying via that medium.\nAn astounding 95 percent of teens who witnessed bullying on social media report that others, like them, have ignored the behavior.\n\n"}
{"id": "7675670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7675670", "title": "Socio-Economic Panel", "text": "Socio-Economic Panel\n\nThe \"German\" Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP [], for \"Sozio-oekonomisches Panel\") is a longitudinal panel dataset of the population in Germany. It is a household based study which started in 1984 and which reinterviews adult household members annually. Additional samples have been taken of East Germans (from 1990, coincident with reunification) and immigrants (in 1994) as well as in 1998, 2000, 2002 and 2006. In 2007, there will be about 12,000 households, and more than 20,000 adult persons sampled. Some of the many topics surveyed include household composition, occupation, employment, earnings, health and life satisfaction. The annual surveys are conducted by the German Institute for Economic Research (DIW Berlin) and the Kantar Group. The survey is funded by the German Federal Government and the State of Berlin via the «Bund-Länder-Kommission» (State/Federal State Commission) for Educational Planning and Research Promotion.\n\nData are available to social science researchers in Germany and abroad in SPSS/PSPP, SAS/DAP, Stata, R/S-PLUS and ASCII format. Extensive documentation in English and German is available online. \n\nSOEP data are integrated into the Cross National Equivalent File (CNEF) which contains panel data from Australia, Canada, Germany, Great Britain and the United States. The data distribution of the SOEP for researchers outside of Germany is supplied with the CNEF by a group at Cornell University. Application to use this international distribution has to be made to the DIW Berlin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18583970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18583970", "title": "Starozhily", "text": "Starozhily\n\nThe Starozhily are the descendants of the Russian Settlers of Eastern Siberia in the 16th and 17th Century. Most of them were Old Believers at least prior to the rise of the Soviet Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "40480312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40480312", "title": "The Future of Oil", "text": "The Future of Oil\n\nThe Future of Oil: A Straight Story of the Canadian Oil Sands is a 2012 book by the Canadian engineer, writer and oil sands manager Sanjay K. Patel that identifies and responds to a pressing concern of many: without increasing oil supply, the future is bleak and there is a risk of high oil prices. Patel works for Suncor Energy Inc.\n\nThe book starts with the argument that objective considerations of economic necessity, along with the nature of current technological limitations, should lead us to a series of connected and inescapable conclusions. According to the author, transition to an age of cleaner energy production is necessary and inevitable, but we cannot yet live without oil; oil must have a future, or we do not have one. He adds that since conventional oil reserves are dwindling, we really have no alternative: we need to increasingly rely on unconventional oil to complement them, and oil from the Canadian oil sands is the best unconventional oil we can get.\n\nThe book covers the history and technology of Canadian oil sands and pertinent issues related to the economy, environment and ethics. Patel has made a case for the oil sands, but at the same time has also addressed the main drawbacks of extracting and using this oil.\n\nIn other words, the book objectively presents the arguments of both oil sands critics and proponents and presents all the main objections to oil sands development posed by journalists, environmentalists, first Nations leaders, and others. As a result, the reader should gain a better understanding of the issues involved, and be able to form their opinion about Canada’s oil sands.\n\nOn the book's release in November 2012, it sparked significant interest in the media and the author appeared in various interviews including popular television and radio shows in Canada. Immediately after its release, the author appeared in more than 20 media interviews including the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "2203532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2203532", "title": "Timeline of same-sex marriage", "text": "Timeline of same-sex marriage\n\nThis page contains a timeline of significant events regarding same-sex marriage and legal recognition of same-sex couples worldwide. It begins with the history of same-sex unions during ancient times, which consisted of unions ranging from informal and temporary relationships to highly ritualized unions, and continues to modern-day state-recognized same-sex marriage. Events concerning same-sex marriages becoming legal in a country or in a country's state are listed in bold.\n\nVarious types of same-sex marriages have existed, ranging from informal, unsanctioned relationships to highly ritualized unions.\n\nCicero mentions the marriage (using the Latin verb for \"to marry\", i.e. nubere) of the son of Curio the Elder, but he does it in a metaphorical form to criticize his enemy Antonius. Cicero states thus that the younger Curio was \"united in a stable and permanent marriage\" to Antonius. Martial also mentions a number of same-sex marriages, but always in derisory terms against people whom he wants to mock.\n\nPractices and rituals for same sex unions were more recognized in Mesopotamia than in ancient Egypt. In ancient Assyria, there was considered to be nothing wrong with homosexual love between men. The Almanac of Incantations contained prayers giving equal standing to the love of a man for both a woman and a man.\n\nAt least two of the Roman Emperors were in same-sex unions; and in fact, thirteen out of the first fourteen Roman Emperors held to be bisexual or exclusively homosexual. The first Roman emperor to have married a man was Nero, who is reported to have married two other men on different occasions. First with one of his freedmen, Pythagoras, to whom Nero took the role of the bride, and later as a groom Nero married a young boy, who resembled one of his concubines, named Sporus.\n\nAdolescent emperor Elagabalus referred to his chariot driver, a blond slave from Caria named Hierocles, as his husband. He also married an athlete named Zoticus in a lavish public ceremony in Rome amidst the rejoicings of the citizens.\n\nThese same-sex marriages continued until Christianity became the official religion of the Roman Empire. A law in the Theodosian Code (\"C. Th.\" 9.7.3) was issued in 342 AD by the Christian emperors Constantius II and Constans. This law prohibited same-sex marriage in ancient Rome and ordered that those who were so married were to be executed.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, a same-sex marriage between the two men Pedro Díaz and Muño Vandilaz in the Galician municipality of Rairiz de Veiga in Spain occurred on 16 April 1061. They were married by a priest at a small chapel. The historic documents about the church wedding were found at Monastery of San Salvador de Celanova.\n\nThe Siwa Oasis in Egypt had an historical acceptance of male homosexuality and even rituals of same-sex marriage — traditions that Egyptian authorities have sought to repress, with increasing success, since the early 20th century. The German egyptologist George Steindorff explored the oasis in 1900 and reported that homosexual relations were common and often extended to a form of marriage.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41716055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41716055", "title": "Tommy Lee Farmer", "text": "Tommy Lee Farmer\n\nTommy Lee Farmer is a convicted American criminal who was the first person in the United States convicted under the Federal three-strikes law.\n\nA native of Sioux City, Iowa, Farmer was the son of a minister and the brother of a college professor. In 1971 he was convicted of second degree murder in the killing of a veterinarian in Sioux City. After having spent most of his adult life in prison, Farmer was paroled and then subsequently arrested for a botched attempt to rob a convenience store in Eastern Iowa. In 1995, he became the first person in the United States to be sentenced under the Three-Strikes Law and received a life sentence. President Bill Clinton considered the Farmer sentencing to be such a landmark decision that he interrupted his vacation to make a press statement.\n"}
{"id": "39166741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39166741", "title": "Turks in Croatia", "text": "Turks in Croatia\n\nTurks of Croatia (; ) are one among 22 recognised national minorities in Croatia. According to the 2011 census, there were 367 Turks living in Croatia, most of which most lived in Primorje-Gorski Kotar County.\n\nTurks compose approximately 0.001% of the total population. The majority of Croatian Turks are Sunni Muslims, and make up 0.5% of Croatia's Muslim population (56,777 Muslims in total).\n\nIn the Independent State of Croatia, the Croatian Muslim Printing House issued a magazine in Turkish language intended for the Turkish public, the European turkologists and those in the Independent State of Croatia who spoke Turkish language. The magazine was called \"The East and the West: the Cultural, Economic, Social and Political Magazine\" (). It was issued between 6 April 1943 and 15 August 1944. It was the first magazine in Turkish language on the territory of the present-day Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and second on the territory of the former Yugoslavia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2740736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2740736", "title": "Wodaabe", "text": "Wodaabe\n\nThe Wodaabe (), also known as the Mbororo or Bororo, are a small subgroup of the Fulani ethnic group. They are traditionally nomadic cattle-herders and traders in the Sahel, with migrations stretching from southern Niger, through northern Nigeria, northeastern Cameroon, southwestern Chad, and the western region of the Central African Republic. The number of Wodaabe was estimated in 2001 to be 100,000. They are known for their elaborate attire and rich cultural ceremonies.\n\nThe Wodaabe speak the Fula language and don't use a written language. In the Fula language, \"woɗa\" means \"taboo\", and \"Woɗaaɓe\" means \"people of the taboo\". \nThis is sometimes translated as \"those who respect taboos\", a reference to the Wodaabe isolation from broader Fulbe culture, and their contention that they retain \"older\" traditions than their Fulbe neighbors. In contrast, other Fulbe as well as other ethnic groups sometimes refer to the Wodaabe as \"Mbororo\", a sometimes pejorative name, translated into English as \"Cattle Fulani\", and meaning \"those who dwell in cattle camps\". By the 17th century, the Fula people across West Africa were among the first ethnic groups to embrace Islam, were often leaders of those forces which spread Islam, and have been traditionally proud of the urban, literate, and pious life with which this has been related. Both Wodaabe and other Fulbe see in the Wodaabe the echoes of an earlier pastoralist way of life, of which the Wodaabe are proud and of which urban Fulbe are sometimes critical.\n\nThe Wodaabe culture is one of the 186 cultures of the standard cross-cultural sample used by anthropologists to compare cultural traits.\n\nA Wodaabe woman, Hindou Oumarou Ibrahim, was chosen to represent civil society of the world on the signing of Paris Protocol on 22 April 2016.\n\nThe Wodaabe keep herds of long-horned Zebu cattle. The dry season extends from October to May. Their annual travel during the wet season follows the rain from the south to the north. Groups of several dozen relatives, typically several brothers with their wives, children and elders, travel on foot, donkey or camel, and stay at each grazing spot for a couple of days. A large wooden bed is the most important possession of each family; when camping it is surrounded by some screens. The women also carry calabashes as a status symbol. These calabashes are passed down through the generations, and often provoke rivalry between women. The Wodaabe mostly live on milk and ground millet, as well as yogurt, sweet tea and occasionally the meat of a goat or sheep.\n\nWodaabe religion is largely but loosely Islamic. Although there are varying degrees of orthodoxy exhibited, most adhere to at least some of the basic requirements of the religion. Islam became a religion of importance among Wodaabe peoples during the 16th century when the scholar al-Maghili preached the teachings of Muhammad to the elite of northern Nigeria. Al-Maghili was responsible for converting the ruling classes among Hausa, Fulani, and Tuareg peoples in the region.\n\nThe code of behavior of the Wodaabe emphasizes reserve and modesty (\"semteende\"), patience and fortitude (\"munyal\"), care and forethought (\"hakkilo\"), and loyalty (\"amana\"). They also place great emphasis on beauty and charm.\n\nParents are not allowed to talk directly to their two first born children, who will often be cared for by their grandparents. During daylight, husband and wife cannot hold hands or speak in a personal manner with each other.\n\nAt the end of the rainy season in September, Wodaabe clans gather in several traditional locations before the beginning of their dry season transhumance migration. The best known of these is In-Gall's Cure Salée salt market and Tuareg seasonal festival. Here the young Wodaabe men, with elaborate make-up, feathers and other adornments, perform the \"Yaake\": dances and songs to impress marriageable women. The male beauty ideal of the Wodaabe stresses tallness, white eyes and teeth; the men will often roll their eyes and show their teeth to emphasize these characteristics. Wodaabe clans then join for the remainder of the week-long Gerewol: a series of barters over marriage and contests where the young men's beauty and skills are judged by young women.\n\nThe 1989 documentary \"Wodaabe - Herdsmen of the Sun\" by Werner Herzog describes the Wodaabe.\n\nIn the 1999 documentary \"Zwischen 2 Welten\" (between two worlds) director Bettina Haasen films her personal conversations with Wodaabe members.\n\nThe 2010 ethnographic documentary Dance with the Wodaabes by Sandrine Loncke explores, from the point of view of its participants, the complex cultural significance of the spectacular but frequently misunderstood and sensationalized Wodaabe ritual celebrations known as \"Geerewol\".\n\nThe Niger-based band \"Etran Finatawa\" is composed of Wodaabe and Tuareg members and creates their unique style of \"Nomad Blues\" by combining modern arrangements and electric guitars with more traditional instruments and polyphonic Wodaabe singing. In 2005 they recorded an album and toured Europe.\n\nMarried Wodaabe women are mentioned in part two of the BBC series \"Human Planet\" for having the right to take a different married man as a sexual partner.\n\n\"Wodaabe Dancer\" is the name of an instrumental track on guitarist Jennifer Batten's 1997 album, \"\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18742780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18742780", "title": "Zimbabwean Australians", "text": "Zimbabwean Australians\n\nZimbabwean Australians are Australian citizens who are fully or partially of Zimbabwean descent or Zimbabwe-born people who reside in Australia. They include migrants to Australia of people from Zimbabwe (Rhodesia until 1980), as well as their descendants. Today, over 30,000 people in Australia were born in Zimbabwe, while many more have Zimbabwean ancestry.\n\nAustralia's Zimbabwean community is now well established, with some of the highest incomes in the country, as well as with community institutions such as Zimbabwean language schools.\n\nThe 2011 Census noted there are 30,252 Zimbabwe-born people living in Australia. The vast majority are skilled and educated, with 74.5% of the Zimbabwe-born aged 15 years and over possessing higher non-school \nqualifications, compared to 55.9% of the Australian population. Some Zimbabweans had originally moved to the UK, but decided to settle in Australia instead.\n\nAustralia's Zimbabwean population is biggest in Sydney, although a large proportion of Zimbabweans in Australia reside in Western Australia. Many white Zimbabweans have settled in Queensland, whereas people of indigenous Shona and Ndebele ethnicities commonly settle in Sydney or Melbourne.\n\nAustralians who speak a language indigenous to Zimbabwe at home are most numerous in Sydney. One in three of Australia's Ndebele-speakers and one in three of Australia's Shona-speakers live in Sydney.\n\nEnglish, Shona and Afrikaans are the main languages Zimbabwean Australians in Victoria speak at home. 53% of Zimbawean Australians in Victoria speak English, while 36% speak Shona and 1% speak Afrikaans.\n\n\n\n"}
