{"id": "53191423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53191423", "title": "8th National Geographic Bee", "text": "8th National Geographic Bee\n\nThe 8th National Geographic Bee was held in Washington, D.C. on May 29, 1996, sponsored by the National Geographic Society. The final competition was moderated by Jeopardy! host Alex Trebek. The winner was Seyi Fayanju of Henry B. Whitehorne Middle School in Verona, New Jersey, who won a $25,000 college scholarship. The 2nd-place winner, Ryan Bean of Augusta, Maine, won a $15,000 scholarship. The 3rd-place winner, Matthew Conway of El Reno, Oklahoma, won a $10,000 scholarship.\n\n"}
{"id": "54699932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54699932", "title": "Aaron Osborne", "text": "Aaron Osborne\n\nAaron Osborne (1947 – December 13, 1995)) was an American modern dancer known for his performances in works by José Limón, Maggie Black and Lar Lubovitch. Also a dance teacher, he was the cofounder of a San Francisco presenting organization, Dancer's Group, and its associated dance school, Footwork Studio.\n\nOsborne started dancing only during his college years, when he was a premed student at the University of Oregon. He transferred to the Juilliard School, where he studied techniques associated with Martha Graham, Merce Cunningham, and José Limón, whose work he especially admired for its attention to human psychology. Between 1969 and 1974, he performed with the José Limón Dance Company. Limón created the central role of his late dance work \"Orfeo\" (1972) especially for Osborne, and he was praised for the strength of his performance in this physically demanding, high-energy role. Other Limón works he danced in included \"La Piñata\" (1969), \"The Unsung\" (1970), \"And David Wept\" (1971), and \"Carlota\" (1972).\n\nOsborne subsequently danced with the Lar Lubovitch Dance Company in works such as \"Time Before the Time After (After the Time Before)\".\n\nLater in his career, Osborne moved to San Francisco, where he taught modern dance, especially Limón technique. In 1982 he cofounded and served as the artistic director of a pair of nonprofits, Dancer's Group (which presented performances) and Footwork Studio (which offered dance classes); both were housed in a building in the Mission District. After a few years, he left to teach dance at the New Performance Gallery, then the home of the Margaret Jenkins Dance Company. Known as a generous and inspiring teacher, he occasionally taught master classes as well.\n\nOsborne died of AIDS.\n"}
{"id": "25692177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25692177", "title": "Abendhauptschule", "text": "Abendhauptschule\n\nAn Abendhauptschule (\"Evening Hauptschule\") is a German class of secondary school for mature students to allow them to gain the Hauptschulabschluss. Classes are usually held in the evening.\n\n"}
{"id": "17757029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17757029", "title": "Academic grading in Romania", "text": "Academic grading in Romania\n\nIn Romanian primary schools, a 4-point grading scale is used:\n\n\nIn secondary schools, high schools, and universities, a 10-point scale is used, 5 being the minimum grade for passing.\n\nSpecifications such as + and −, half grades, and grades like 6/7 are sometimes used. Note that the grades used in primary school are derived from this scale, with \"Insufficient\" meaning \"4 or less\", and the other grades standing for 5-6, 7-8 and 9-10 respectively. A 10 is not an uncommon grade, especially in low-interest subjects. A 9 is usually considered an excellent grade. The average grade ranges between 7 and 8. A very poor performance is usually awarded a 3 or 4, while a 1 is often reserved for cases of academic dishonesty or some other unacceptable behavior. Grades with 2 decimal digits can also be awarded, e.g. 7.38 means \"'very' satisfactory\", although in the register (\"catalog\", where grades are written) the grade will be rounded. Grades with 2 decimal digits can also be awarded in certificates of final examinations in secondary schools, but in that case, they are not rounded. \n\nThe same system (10-point scale) is used in Moldova, Finland and Vietnam, including in primary school.\n\n"}
{"id": "25130787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25130787", "title": "Al Dhafra Private School", "text": "Al Dhafra Private School\n\nAl Dhafra Private Schools are private educational institutions located in the Al Manaseer area of Al Ain and in Mohammed Bin Zayed City, Shabiya 9 in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. The schools are a Cambridge International Examinations Center, a CITA (Commission on International and Trans-Regional Accreditation, USA) candidate schools and is registered with the United Arab Emirates Ministry of Education.\n\nThe schools have more than 2700 students of over 27 nationalities. It was established in 1989.\n\n"}
{"id": "49093484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49093484", "title": "Alethea Arnaquq-Baril", "text": "Alethea Arnaquq-Baril\n\nAlethea Arnaquq-Baril is an Inuk filmmaker, known for her work on Inuit life and culture. She is the owner of Unikkaat Studios, a production company in Iqaluit, which produces Inuktitut-language films. She was awarded the Canadian Meritorious Service Cross , in 2017 in recognition of her work as an activist and filmmaker. She currently works part-time at the Qanak Collective, a social project which supports Inuit empowerment initiatives.\n\nAlethea Arnaquq-Baril was born and raised in Iqaluit, Nunavut Territory, Canada. Her mother is an Inuk teacher with a Masters in Education and her father was a radio broadcaster with the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC).\n\nArnaquq-Baril initially wanted to be a video game designer. While attending Sheridan College in Ontario, she became interested in storytelling. She graduated from the college's Institute of Technology and Advanced Learning's program in illustration. Arnaquq-Baril also completed animation training at the Banff Centre in a program offered by the National Film Board of Canada.\n\nIn 2011, Arnaquq-Baril was interviewed by CBC about her work: \"The Inuit culture is primarily an oral culture, there is little written in Inuktitut about the past and she feels compelled to record it 'while the last elders that traditionally lived on the land are still alive'\".[4]\n\nArnaquq-Baril began her film career as a producer with the documentary \"James Houston: The Most Interesting Group of People You'll Ever Meet\" (2008) and as co-producer of \"The Experimental Eskimos\" (2009). She wrote and directed her first film, an animated short film sponsored by the National Film Board of Canada (NFB), titled \"Lumaajuuq: The Blind Boy and the Loon\", which was released in 2009. Arnaquq-Baril subsequently wrote a children's book based on the film with illustrator, Daniel Gies. The book is titled \"The Blind Boy and the Loon\" and was published in 2014. It is available English and Inuktitut.\n\nArnaquq-Baril directed her first full-length film, \"Tunnit: Retracing the Lines of Inuit Tattoos\" (2010), a personal documentary about her journey to explore the lost tradition of Inuit facial tattoos. Between 2011 and 2018, Arnaquq-Baril has worked on five other films in various roles as producer, director and screenwriter. She produces Inuit cultural documentaries and Inuktitut-language films through her own production company, Unikaat Studios, and through Tajarniit Productions, a collaborative project with Inuit women filmmakers. She was named by the Toronto International Film Festival as one of Canada's most important women filmmakers in 2017. Angry Inuk won the DOC Vanguard award, the Vimeo On Demand Audience Award and the Canadian Documentary Promotion Award, among others.\n\nIn 2017, Arnaquq-Baril was awarded Canada's Meritorious Service Cross, , \"in recognition of her work as an activist and filmmaker\". She currently works part-time with the Qanak Collective, which supports Inuit empowerment projects.\n\nThe animated, short film \"Lumaajuuq: The Blind Boy and the Loon\", is an adaption of a traditional Inuit story about a widowed mother who takes out her sorrow on her only son and treats him cruelly. Once a great hunter, the son is now blind. He later travels to a lake where a loon reveals to him that it was his mother who cursed away his sight. With the loon's help, the young man regains his vision. Overcome with his own rage, the young man seeks revenge and his actions bring him lifelong suffering. The film won best Canadian Short Drama at the imagineNATIVE festival in 2010 as well as the Golden Sheaf Award for Best Aboriginal category at the Yorkton Film Festival.\n\nThe documentary \"Tunniit: Retracing the Lines of Inuit Tattoos\", examines the tradition of face tattooing among Inuit women, now forbidden and nearly forgotten. Arnaquq-Baril embarks on a personal journey, interviewing members of the Inuit community. Meeting resistance from some of her fellow Inuit, she eventually finds a number of elders willing to talk about the tattoos, and learns about the dramatic cultural changes that led to their decline.\"\n\nArnaquq-Baril released the short film \"Aviliaq: Entwined\" in 2014. A drama set in the 1950's Arctic, it tells the story of two Inuit lesbians struggling to stay together after one of them marries. The film addresses the issues of sexuality and family structure in the Inuit culture during a period of colonization.\n\n\"Angry Inuk\" is a full-length film which examines the important role of seal hunting in Inuit culture and the negative impact that activist organizations trying to stop the seal hunt have had on the lives of the Inuit people. The film premiered at the Hot Docs Canadian International Documentary Festival, where the film received the Vimeo On Demand Audience Award along with the Canadian Documentary Promotion Award. It has since screened at many film festivals. On December 1, 2016, Arnaquq-Baril received the DOC Vanguard Award from the Documentary Organization of Canada.\"Angry Inuk\" was also included in the list of \"Canada's Top Ten\" feature films of 2016, selected by a panel of filmmakers and industry professionals organized by TIFF, where it also won the Audience Choice Award.\n\nArnaquq-Baril advocates for the continuation of the Arctic seal hunt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32789164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32789164", "title": "Boatyard Music &amp; Film Studio", "text": "Boatyard Music &amp; Film Studio\n\nBoatyard Music & Film Studio is a youth and community facility in Pembroke, Pembrokeshire, Wales. It is operated by the Tanyard Youth Project and was built with funds from the National Lottery's Big Lottery Fund.\n\nIn April 2009, the Tanyard received £367,807 in grant money to buy the building, renovate and equip the studio with the latest music technology equipment. The grant also went to fund a Music and Film Technician's post for three years. In July 2009, James Harding took up this post and oversaw the building work and installation of equipment.\n\nThe studio opened its doors for the first time to the youth of the Tanyard Youth Project in November 2009. In April 2010, Jonathan Thomas from the Ospreys (rugby team), opened the studio officially during an open public event. Shortly after the studio featured in the National Lottery's BIG Magazine\n\nSince opening in November 2009, the Boatyard has played a role in over 400 young peoples and 100 adults lives through music and film activities. It has to date produced 12 short films from various genres all of which are available to watch on its website (listed below) and via YouTube.\n\nIn June 2011, the Boatyard Studio was nominated for a The National Lottery's Good Causes Awards for \"Best Arts Project.\" Out of eight hundred and fifty projects nominated for the award the Boatyard Studio made it into the final ten. This nomination gained the studio and the studio attention with newspapers such as the Western Telegraph, the Milford Mercury and the South Wales Argus. The studio was also mentioned on Real Radio and BBC Radio One as part of a public vote campaign.\n\n"}
{"id": "5572424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5572424", "title": "Bundesausbildungsförderungsgesetz", "text": "Bundesausbildungsförderungsgesetz\n\nThe Bundesausbildungsförderungsgesetz (mostly known by its abbreviation BAföG) is Germany's Federal Training Assistance Act for students at secondary schools and universities in Germany. Since its introduction in 1971, it has regulated federal student grants and loans. Students who receive loans and grants under this law refer to it by saying they \"receive BAföG\". In 2012, 24% of all students in Germany received financial support via \"BAföG\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37322446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37322446", "title": "Cardus Education Survey Canada", "text": "Cardus Education Survey Canada\n\nThe Cardus Education Survey: A Rising Tide Lifts All Boats (Cardus II) is a Canadian report measuring non-government school effects in service of the Canadian public good. The first of its kind to explore the topic in Canada, the study was a survey from a representative sample of graduates of government and non-government schools ages 24–39. The data included graduates from schools in all provinces except for Quebec, which is included separately in the report. The data was collected in March 2012. The report was made available on September 26, 2012 at http://www.cardus.ca/research/education/. A Cardus Education Survey was published in the United States in 2011 called \"Do the Motivations for Private Religious Catholic and Protestant Schooling in North America Align with Graduate Outcomes?\"(Cardus I), and it was phase one of the overall project. \"The Cardus Education Survey: A Rising Tide Lifts All Boats\" was phase two of the project.\n\nUsing educational standards based in various provincial documentation, the report concluded that graduates from various non-government schooling sectors—Separate Catholic, Independent Catholic, Independent Non-religious, Evangelical Christian, and religious home education—exceed in all the measures that the public school sets for itself and do a better job than the public schools. These graduates represent about 8% of Canada's population. The report suggests that non-government schools are important contributors to education in Canada, that they contribute citizens that enhance the public good, and that these schools may have best practices that could be shared across all education systems.\n\nOn September 26, 2012, in an interview with Michael Coren, Ray Pennings the chair and coordinator of the Cardus Education Survey described what the report examined.\n\nThe report states that \"Canada's government schools perform very well in international rankings, but by many measures, Canada's non-government schools perform at even higher levels.\" \n\nThe executive summary of the report highlighted some of the characteristics of non-government school graduates. These graduates are likely to have stronger families with more children. These graduates are more engaged in neighbourhood and community groups and are involved in cultural initiatives. They vote more than government school graduates vote. They are more generous with their money to a variety of causes and more generous with their time by volunteering more. In particular, Evangelical Protestant school graduates have high satisfaction with the quality of their life and seek to contribute to the public good even though they feel that the culture makes them feel unwelcome. Graduates of independent non-religious schools look for fulfillment expectations in their jobs, while graduates of Evangelical Protestants schools and religious homeschooling understand a strong vocational calling. These graduates focus on educating for employment rather than influence, leaving higher education when they have attained what they need for their future careers. Reflecting back on their secondary education, these graduates have high satisfaction and feel that they were prepared well for later life. Religious attributes of conviction, spiritual formation and practices are evident for Evangelical Protestants and graduates of religious home education, while graduates of separate Catholic schools appear almost identical to those of public school.\n\nThis section of the report summarizes the findings from the comparison of graduates\n(ages 24 to 39) from six Canadian school sectors: Government, Separate Catholic, Independent Catholic, Independent non-religious, Evangelical Protestant (often called Christian schools), and religious home education (homeschooling families in which the mother regularly attended religious services.) Graduate outcomes are described and discussed under three main themes: cultural, economic, and social engagement; academic achievement; and spiritual formation. The report focuses on the school effect, meaning the impact a high school experience has on individuals and families. They are compared to the government school graduates who are seen as the control group.\n\nBased on the survey, The Cardus Report suggests a number of conclusions about the cultural, economic and social engagement of non-government school graduates. First, in terms of income, there is no significant difference between all the groups compared to government school graduates.\n\nFor marital status, Separate Catholic graduates were more likely to have never been married, and more likely to marry at a later age than government school graduates. They were less likely to be divorced or separated, and they were as likely as government school graduates to be living with a partner. Independent Catholic graduates were less likely to be living with a partner or to be divorced or separated, but as likely to be married and marry about the same age as government school graduates. Independent non-religious graduates differed from government school graduates only in being less likely to be divorced or separated. Christian school graduates marry younger and are more likely to be married than any other group. They are also less likely to be divorced or separated and less likely to be living with a partner than graduates of government schools. They are more likely to have more children. Religious home education graduates are somewhat less likely to be divorced or separated and extremely unlikely to be co-habiting. Though they marry at an earlier age, they are somewhat more likely to be married than government school graduates and more likely to have more children.\n\nIt suggests that graduates of non-government schools (religious and non-religious) tend to be equally or more involved in politics and culture than are government school graduates.\nIndependent non-religious graduates act on their feelings of obligation and become involved with political campaigns. Christian school and home school graduates feel the same level of obligation, but do not act on these feelings. Their high level of involvement in other activity could be the cause of this. This trend shows again when answering about environmental issues. Christian school and religious home-educated graduates are notably more likely to feel obligated to care for the environment, but again only the independent non-religious school graduates are significantly more environmentally active than their government school peers.\n\nCultural activities seemed to be shaped by the graduates' community and family interests. Christian school graduates are more likely to join a choir, while independent non-religious graduates are more likely to enjoy a concert or opera. All non-government school groups read more than their government school peers.\n\nThe two groups who felt most prepared to be culturally involved were home school graduates and Independent non-religious school graduates.\n\nChristian school graduates have had more cross-cultural experiences than graduates of other schools. These experiences are identified as \"mission\" or \"development\" trips.\n\nIndependent non-religious school graduates tend to trust established structures and institutions. Separate Catholic graduates stand out because of their trust in labour unions.\nChristian school graduates and religious home educated graduates show more confidence in corporations and the federal government, but less in the institutions of the federal government, the Supreme Court, the media, and the scientific community. This may correspond to the perception that society is negative toward the Christian faith. At the same time, most non-government school graduates feel that the government should do more to solve social problems.\n\nGraduates of Christian schools are more likely that any other group to be satisfied with their lives, but they are less likely to take risks and more likely to conform.\n\nGraduates of independent Catholic schools and independent non-religious schools attain more years of education than government school graduates. Christian school graduates were the same as government school graduates. The home school graduate completed fewer years.\n\nSeparate Catholic school graduates, independent Catholic school graduates and independent non-religious school graduates are spread out over high school, college, university undergraduate and master degrees, with the independent non-religious graduate having the highest overall educational attainment. Christian school graduates and religious home educated graduates are more likely to have as their highest educational certification a college diploma rather than a university degree, but when they do go to university, Christian school graduates are more likely to have a master's degree, and home school graduates are more likely to receive a Ph.D.\n\nNon-government school graduates are more likely to call their school experience sheltered. In contrast, they also highly valued their high school experience and saw it as a valuable preparation. Catholic school graduates did not show any difference in valuing their high school experience compared to their public school peers.\n\nBy almost all survey questions, Christian schools and religious home education are affirmed by their graduates in contributing to religious and spiritual formation. They are more effective than all other school categories. These graduates are involved in their church and have done international mission work. They are developing skills for participation and contribution to their communities and neighbourhoods. They are \"grounded, contributing, faithful, diligent, conservative, and dependable.\" The survey's concern is that Catholic school graduates are not different from government school graduates in the faith strength and practice of their faith.\n\nThe comparison between the results of English-speaking Canada and Quebec showed such strong differences that the Cardus Education team decided that the Quebec results should be considered separately.\n\nResponses from Quebec participants included 173 graduates of fully government-funded schools, including 22 who labeled their school as Catholic; 248 independent Catholic school graduates; and 67 independent non-religious school graduates.\n\nOne difference is that students obtain a Quebec high school diploma after successful completion of grade 11, not after grade 12. Another significant difference was that all government schools were officially labeled either Catholic or Protestant until 1997, when a change in Canada's constitution made it possible for the Quebec government to make education less about religion and more about language in 2000 by now labeling all schools as either French-speaking of English-speaking. Participants in the survey had difficulty designating their schools, with some classifying the same schools as Catholic, others as public, and still others as non-religious.\n\nAccording to Cardus, Quebec has the highest proportion of students going to private high schools in North America (17%). Most of these are Catholic. The Quebec government subsidizes the schools on a per student basis, so that a student's tuition is about one-third of the cost. About half of the total sample of 500 Quebec students survey identified themselves as coming from a Catholic independent school. The number of graduates of independent non-religious schools was too small to draw any conclusions. What the Cardus study was therefore able to do is compare the Quebec graduates who attended fully funded government schools with those who attended partially funded Catholic independent schools.\n\nThree trends emerged from the surveys. First, graduates of the independent schools had a higher satisfaction with their high school experience. They feel prepared for their roles in society, and they have completed more years of schooling, including more post-secondary education. Second, they are involved in supporting a political candidate or a party, but less likely to protest because of the full-time work schedule that they have. Third, their religious involvement differs very little with their government school counterparts.\n\nIn the report, Cardus applauded the work of independent Catholic schools in Quebec for preparing their graduates for their careers and their socio-economic contributions to the province and the country, but Cardus also questioned whether the schools have prepared students for their life of faith.\n\nIn the two reports, many similarities between the countries are evident. Christian school graduates are more likely to have strong commitments to family, church and faith formation. Graduates are very involved in their churches, in mission trips and in volunteering in non-religious community work. Their views on morality issues are parallel, and both sets of graduates have a sense of a culture around them that is negative toward them.\n\nThree main differences can be seen in the reports. First, Canadian Christian school graduates show a stronger tendency to obtain a master's degree than American Christian graduates. Second, American Christian school graduates donate less and are involved less in political action, but like the Canadians, they agree that they should be involved. Third, Canadian Christian school graduates volunteer outside of their religious congregation more than their American counterparts.\n\nCardus is a Canadian think tank \"dedicated to the renewal of North American social architecture, drawing on more than 2000 years of Christian social thought\". Cardus focuses its research in four areas of North American public life: Cities; Volunteerism, Public-Good Services and Support Programs; Education and Culture; and Work and Economics. It publishes four journals: Comment, Cardus Policy in Public, LexView, and Convivium. Cardus Audio is its podcast. http://www.cardus.ca/organization/about/\n\nThe word Cardus comes from the Latin root \"cardo\". In the Ancient Roman world, the cardo was a street running north to south in a city. Busy with many markets and stores, the cardo, was the center of business and the economy of any Roman town. Cardus uses this image of the busy street saying, \"Cardus's wide-angle periodicals, policies, and punditry come together for a renewed vision of North American social architecture, up and down the Cardus—the Main Street.\" \n\nIn December 2007, thirty-seven Christian leaders in education and culture met at a California symposium to explore the through lines that weave Christian education and culture together. Quantified and qualified data was needed to learn more. A discussion paper was then published and followed by a research proposal.\n\nCardus secured funding from the Richard and Helen DeVos Foundation based in Grand Rapids, Michigan; the William Voortman Foundation based in Hamilton, Ontario; and the Van Lunen Foundation based in Chicago, Illinois. The William Voortman Fund is a private foundation in Waterdown, Ontario, which supports selected Christian organizations, with a focus on education in Ontario. The Richard and Helen DeVos Foundation supports conservative policy and politics. The foundation has been a supporter of both Hope College and Calvin College, both West Michigan Christian colleges. The Van Lunen Foundation has been a supporter of Christian education by establishing the Van Lunen Center for Executive Management in Christian Schools established at Calvin College in January 2007. The University of Notre Dame joined in research partnership with an in-kind contribution to the project. The combined value of the funded and in-kind contributions to the project was $1,150,000.\n\nIn August 2011, the first phase of the project published, Do the Motivations for Private Religious Catholic and Protestant Schooling in North America Align with Graduate Outcomes? The research goals of this phase focused the connection between the motivations of Christian education and the outcomes, especially in academic excellence, spiritual formation, and cultural engagement. The Phase I report says,\n\nRay Pennings served as the chair and coordinator and is a Senior Fellow and Director of Research at Cardus.\n\nDr. David Sikkink was the head of quantitative studies. He completed his doctorate in sociology at the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, and has been in Sociology at Notre Dame since 1999.\n\nDr. Deani Van Pelt served as the author for the report and is an Associate Professor of Education at Redeemer University College where she serves as Director of Teacher Education.\n\nHarro Van Brummelen served as an advisor and is former Dean of Education and Professor Emeritus at Trinity Western University, and currently the Executive Director of Christian Studies International.\n\nAmy von Heyking served as an advisor and is an Associate Professor in the Faculty of Education at the University of Lethbridge.\n\nThe American Survey (Phase I)used two web-based surveys. Questions about schooling history were included in the Science of Generosity Survey conducted in 2010. This survey was conducted by survey firm Knowledge Networks. This survey included nearly 2000 randomly sampled Americans ages 24 to 39 who completed a 60-minute survey. The survey included questions about academic excellence, spiritual formation, and cultural engagement. Toward the end of the survey, participants were asked to identify the type of high school that they attended. Choices included public, Catholic, conservative Protestant or \"Christian school\", other Christian, non-Christian religious, non-religious private or home-school. The second survey, also done by Knowledge Networks, included 1,003 graduates of non-government schools and 505 graduates of government schools. Graduates were sorted by the type of school, such as Catholic, evangelical Protestant, non-religious private, and home school. The survey includes questions about academic excellence, spiritual formation, and cultural engagement. Participants responded to a thirty-minute survey.\n\nThe Canadian Survey (Phase II) was a parallel survey. A survey of randomly selected Canadians was administered by Vision Critical, a division of Angus Reid. This survey included a large oversample of non-government school graduates that was limited to participants between 23 and 40 years of age. Respondents chose from the following options: Catholic, conservative Protestant or \"Christian school,\" other Protestant school, or other type of independent school. In addition, respondents were asked the name and location of the high school from which they graduated. From these responses, participants were sorted into categories of public, separate Catholic, independent Catholic, non-religious independent, \"Christian,\" and home school. The forty-five-minute survey included questions about academic excellence, spiritual formation, and cultural engagement. In order to make the survey instrument comparable to the United States sample of the Cardus Education Study, several questions were replicated from the Knowledge Networks survey.\n\nThe distribution of English-speaking, non-government high school participants in the analysis was as follows:\n\nThe small number of home school graduates that were identified puts into question the validity of the sample. Other larger surveys have been done that may reflect more clearly on the academic excellence, spiritual formation and cultural engagement of home school graduates.\n\nAlthough the Cardus Education Survey had participants from Islamic schools\n(5), Jewish schools (15), Sikh schools (2), mainline Protestant schools(22), and non-religiously-defined home school (17), the Cardus team decided that the numbers in each category were insufficient to study them as distinct groups, and they could not naturally be collapsed into another category. Responses from graduates of these categories were not analyzed.\n\nAjah Fundtracker (2012). William Voortman fund. Retrieved from http://ajah.ca/demo/fo/14336\n\nArai, A. B. (2000). Reasons for home schooling in Canada. Canadian Journal of Education / Revue Canadienne De l'Éducation, 25(3), 204-217.\n\nCalvin College (2012) DeVos Communications Center. Retrieved from http://www.calvin.edu/map/devos/\n\nCardus (2012) Research projects education and culture. Retrieved from http://www.cardus.ca/research/education/publications/\n\nCardus (2012) The organization. Retrieved from http://www.cardus.ca/organization/about/\n\nHope College (2012) DeVos Fieldhouse. Retrieved from http://www.hope.edu/resources/devos/\n\nSun News (September 26, 2012) Why private schools make better people. Retrieved from http://www.sunnewsnetwork.ca/video/why-private-schools-make-better-people/1863112169001\n\nPennings, R, Seel, D.J., and Sikkink, D, Van Pelt, D, Wiens, K (2011) Cardus education survey. do the motivations for private religious Catholic and Protestant schooling in North America align with graduate outcomes? Hamilton, Canada: Cardus.\n\nPennings, R.; Sikkink, D.; Van Pelt, D.; Van Brummelen, H.; and von Heyking,(2012) Cardus education survey. a rising tide lifts all boats. Hamilton, Canada: Cardus.\n\nVan Lunen Center (2012) History of the Van Lunen Center. Retrieved from http://www.calvin.edu/vanlunen/about/history.html\n\nVan Pelt, D, Seel, DJ (2007) The California table connecting education and culture a work research foundation paper. Ontario, CA: Cardus.\n"}
{"id": "31110151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31110151", "title": "Catholic University of Zimbabwe", "text": "Catholic University of Zimbabwe\n\nThe Catholic University of Zimbabwe (CUZ) is a Catholic Church affiliated university established in 1999 in Harare, Zimbabwe's capital city. It offers six undergraduate degree programs: Bachelor of Business Management & Information Technology (Honors), Bachelor of Business Management (Honors), Bachelor of Accounting (Honors), Bachelor of Social Science in Development Studies (Honors), Bachelor of Theology and Bachelor of Arts Dual (Honours). It also offers a variety of short courses under the Faculty of Commerce and the Faculty of Humanities.\n\nIn 2014, the university extended its reach by opening three satellite campuses in Bulawayo, Chinhoyi and Mutare.\n\nThe Catholic University plans to introduce more full-time degree programs and short courses in response to students' needs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37716073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37716073", "title": "Dar-ul-Mussarat, Lahore", "text": "Dar-ul-Mussarat, Lahore\n\nDar-ul-Mussarat Lahore (DUML) is a chain of special education centers for mentally challenged children in Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan. It was established in December 1990 by Khushnud Mussarat Azariah, wife of Bishop Samuel Robert Azariah.\n\nThe main campus of Dar-ul-Mussarat is in the Diocesan compound on Waris Road, along with St. Peter’s High School.\n\nDar-ul-Musarrat Lahore is a daycare center for training and development of mentally challenged children. The main focus is to provide every opportunity to the handicapped children to be independent in their living activities. Under the supervision of Mrs. Resha Qadir Bakhsh (specially trained in Japan), the staff of 17 well-trained teachers help these children in developing awareness of their presence in this society. Dar-ul-Musarrat caters with the following disabilities:\nPhysiotherapy services are also provided\n\n"}
{"id": "46569048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46569048", "title": "Deutsche Internationale Schule in Zagreb", "text": "Deutsche Internationale Schule in Zagreb\n\nDeutsche Internationale Schule Zagreb (DISZ, ) is a German international school in Zagreb, Croatia. It serves kindergarten, \"grundschule\", and \"gymasium\" leading up to Abitur.\n\nIt is a part of the EuroCampus Zagreb, with the École française de Zagreb. The EuroCampus opened on September 1, 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "6825072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6825072", "title": "Dimitrie Cantemir Lyceum", "text": "Dimitrie Cantemir Lyceum\n\nDimitrie Cantemir Lyceum (Romanian: \"Liceul \"Dimitrie Cantemir\"\"; ) of Chişinău, Moldova is a state institution of primary and secondary education. It is named after Dimitrie Cantemir, Moldavian voivod and prolific man of letters.\n\nPreviously the 3rd school of Chişinău, it was reformed into a lyceum in 1991. \n\nThe language of teaching is Russian.\n\nThe lyceum consists of a grammar school (grades 1 to 4), a junior high school (or gymnasium; grades 5 to 9), and a high school (or lyceum; grades 10 to 12).\n\nDimitrie Cantemir Lyceum of Chişinău is considered to be one of the best institutions of secondary education in Chişinău. \n\n"}
{"id": "40717444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40717444", "title": "Dora Sakayan", "text": "Dora Sakayan\n\nDora Sakayan (classical Armenian orthography: ; reformed: ; born January 24, 1931), Professor of German Studies (retired), McGill University. Specializing initially as a Germanist, today she is known for her work in various areas of Applied Linguistics. Sakayan is also noted for pioneering Armenology in Canada, and introducing the two branches of the Armenian language, Western Armenian and Eastern Armenian, to the English-speaking world.\n\nSakayan was born in 1931 in Salonica, Greece, to Armenian parents who had escaped the Armenian Genocide. She grew up in a multilingual environment, with her first languages being Western Armenian and Modern Greek, and she received early exposure to German, French and Turkish. After immigrating to Soviet Armenia, she received her education in Eastern Armenian and Russian. Later on, she mastered English and learned other languages.\n\nSakayan received her elementary education at the Armenian Gulabi Gulbenkian School in Salonica. She then attended the local German high school Deutsche Schule Saloniki. She was 11 years old when her family moved to Vienna, Austria, where she pursued her high school education at the Gymnasium for girls in the 7th District of Vienna \"Oberschule für Mädchen, Wien VII.\"\n\nIn 1946, Sakayan’s family repatriated to Soviet Armenia where she completed her secondary education. In 1948, she was admitted to the Yerevan State Pedagogical Institute of Foreign Languages (YSPL) where she graduated with a diploma in Germanic linguistics and in Pedagogy in 1952. She was then appointed as an instructor of German at YSPL, where she taught from 1952 to 1956. Subsequently, she was invited to teach in the Department of Romance and Germanic Philology at Yerevan State University (YSU, 1956–1958).\n\nSakayan began her graduate studies in Germanic philology in 1958 at the Lomonosov Moscow State University (LMSU), completing them in 1961. Over the following four years, she shared her time between Moscow and Yerevan to pursue her teaching duties in Germanic Philology at YSU and complete her PhD thesis while raising her two young children. She obtained her PhD in Germanic Philology from Moscow Lomonosov University in 1965.\n\nIn 1965, Sakayan became Head of the Department of Foreign languages of YSU, a position she held for ten years. At the same time, she delivered lectures in the Department of Romance-Germanic Philology of YSU.\n\nSakayan immigrated to Canada in January 1975 and began to teach German at two universities: McGill University, (Department of German Studies) and the Université de Montréal (Department of Études des langues anciennes et modernes). In 1977, she was offered a full-time position at McGill and left Université de Montréal. Due to her high ratings as an instructor of German at McGill, in 1978 she was offered a joint appointment with the Department of Russian and Slavic Studies where she taught for ten years. Over the years, Sakayan rose to the rank of Full Professor at McGill University.\n\nIn 1981, Sakayan began her groundbreaking work in Armenian Studies at McGill. At the Centre of Continuing Education, she founded and supervised a program of credited Armenian courses anchored in the Department of Russian and Slavic Studies. She edited and prepared for publication a number of Armenological manuscripts of linguistic, literary and historic interest, translated several books and articles from Armenian into other languages and vice versa, and made book tours. She became a regular participant at international Armenological conferences and congresses, and she also organized Armenological conferences in Canada and Armenia. Seeing her mission as presenting Armenian language and culture to non-Armenians, she founded the series \"Armenian Studies for the English Speaking World\" and published a number of scholarly books and articles under this heading. To promote the publication of her Armenological books, in 1997 she founded a small press under the name AROD Books in Montreal.\n\nAfter 25 years of service at McGill University, Sakayan retired from the Department of German Studies in 2000 and dedicated herself fully to Armenian Studies. She renewed her ties with Yerevan State University, where she regularly spends a few months every year, participating in scholarly projects, organizing international linguistic conferences, publishing her books with YSU Press and organizing book launches at YSU and elsewhere in Armenia. Among many activities in her homeland, she is the supervisor and participant of an ongoing translation project that she carries out with one of her former students, Evelina Makaryan, a researcher at the Institute for Armenian Studies at YSU.\n\nAt the same time, Sakayan continues the promotion of Armenian Studies in Canada. In 2005, she founded an Armenian language program at the Diocese of the Armenian Apostolic Church in Montreal, carrying on a tradition that she established more than three decades ago (in 1981) at the Centre of Continuing Education at McGill University.\n\nAs a Germanist and educator in the East European tradition, Sakayan has received training in Germanic linguistics and language pedagogy. This background has led her to applied linguistics, and from the great variety of its interdisciplinary branches Sakayan has concentrated on the following areas: a) contrastive linguistics, b) foreign language acquisition, c) translation studies.\n\nSakayan includes into the contrastive discussion, besides German, other Indo-European languages: Russian, English, French, and Modern Greek. As an innovation, she also includes Armenian, a non-European language whose agglutinative properties set it apart from other languages in the Indo-European family. In fact, in Sakayan’s work, contrastive analysis is predominantly based on Armenian, and other languages are viewed through the prism of this language. The objectives of such an endeavor are to establish language typologies and to identify areas of difficulty in foreign language acquisition. Her work also incorporates the findings of Armenian and Russian data — not always accessible to Western linguists.\n\nSakayan introduces to the Western reader the idiosyncrasies of Eastern Armenian morphology and syntax, with a special focus on the verb system and its rich paradigm of non-finite verb forms, called \"derbays\" (դերբայ = participle). Over the years, she has dealt extensively with East Armenian deverbal nominalizations, deriving from certain \"derbays\": the Armenian infinitive and three participles: the present, past and the future participle. Within the framework of \"Nominalizations of various degrees\" Sakayan discusses the regular relative clause (RC), the ‘relative participles’ (RP based on the present, past and the future participle), as well and other phenomena of relativization in Eastern Armenian.\n\nSakayan contrasts Armenian clausal nominalizations with their semantic counterparts in a selective number of European languages. A noteworthy monograph in this respect is \"Formen der Textkohärenz: Nominalisierung als sententiale Anapher im Ostarmenischen\". This book explores East Armenian clausal nominalizations that are based on the Armenian infinitive. Sakayan describes the transformation process of finite clauses into economical nominal phrases, gives the morphosyntactic characteristics of these nominalizations, identifies the functions of the agglutinative segments in a synthetic nominalized infinitive (SNI).\n\nSakayan has also taken a keen interest in contrastive phraseology in the general sense of the term. Recognizing the importance of ready-made expressions in human communication, she has based her research on self-collected linguistic corpora of phraseological units, such as proverbs and sayings, idiomatic expressions, and routine formulae (gambits).\n\nSakayan has explored the reproduction of routine formulae (gambits) and their role for turn-taking in conversation and for organizing discourse She has created thematically and pragmatically grouped bilingual concordances of routine formulae (gambits) for language learning. See the use of such concordances in Sakayan’s textbooks.\n\nSakayan's interest in proverbs resulted in a major paremiological study accompanied by a bilingual (Armenian-English), thematically arranged anthology of 2,500 proverbs. An extensive introduction addresses the language and structure, as well as the origin of Armenian proverbs (international, borrowed and specifically Armenian proverbs).\n\nContrastive paremiology being an ongoing project, Sakayan’s next volume became a language-pair-oriented paremiological study with special focus on German-Armenian connections and discussions on cross-cultural translatability. In 2001, the German counterpart of this paremiological study appeared with a new introduction that provides an in-depth analysis of the structure and language of Armenian proverbs. Along with the extreme conciseness of the Armenian proverbs, Sakayan points to their capacity to function in various sizes and shapes, from extremely short and compact units to more elaborate and wordy structures (e.g. dialogues). Some of them encapsulate people’s everyday talk, citations of reported or direct speech. Since dialogue proverbs or dramatized proverbs are not a universal genre and can be found only in a few languages, Sakayan explores them extensively.\n\nSakayan’s scholarly interest in foreign language acquisition is apparent not only in the titles of her published articles, but also in the list of authored and co-authored textbooks, instructional manuals and methodological guides, for the instruction of both German and Armenian as foreign languages Some of these projects demonstrate the benefits of applying the latest trends in linguistics to instructional development.\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, while chairing the Department of Foreign Languages at Yerevan State University (YSU) in Soviet Armenia, Sakayan authored and co-authored several textbooks, manuals and methodological guides for the instruction of German in Armenian high schools and universities. However, in accordance with Soviet censorship rules that deprived expatriate authors of authorship, the production of all books carrying her name had to be discontinued after Sakayan’s departure to Canada in 1975.\n\nAfter resettling in Canada, Sakayan continued her research in Foreign Language Methodology. In close collaboration with Professor Christine Tessier of Université Laval in Quebec City, Canada, Sakayan conducted the research project dedicated to German Stereotyped Speech Forms in Mini-Dialogues. Sakayan and Tessier laid the groundwork for a new method of communicative exercises that has received widespread recognition in the area of DaF (Deutsch als Fremdsprache, or German as a Foreign Language). The project resulted in a book called Rede und Antwort, widely used as a supplement to other DaF textbooks at universities; in 1991 it was declared in the AOL-Reference Manual as \"a hit textbook for DaF.\"\n\nThe innovative method is based on the introduction of German Stereotyped Speech Forms, or gambits, known for their important role in languages while turn-taking in interaction. Gambits used at the beginning of an utterance are seen as cues that signal not only the illocutionary feature of an utterance, but also its syntactic-semantic unfolding. The method broadly applies speech act theory and text linguistics, as well as some insights of \"grammar of expectancy,\" to the teaching of DaF. The Rede und Antwort exercises have proven to be an effective means for promoting oral skills in the classroom, which are readily applicable in real life-settings.\n\nInspired by the success of the Rede und Antwort, in the 1990s Sakayan launched and carried out a completely new project: an introductory university textbook for Western Armenian (Western Armenian for the English-speaking World: A Contrastive Approach). The textbook, which first appeared in 2000, draws on more recent achievements of linguistics in the instruction of Western Armenian. It demonstrates the great potential that contrastive linguistics has for the advancement of foreign language teaching by outlining Armenian-English contrasts throughout the course. It also applies the insights of text linguistics and grammar of expectancy by enhancing the production of correct grammatical forms anticipated by the reproduction of certain ready-made routine formulae. The textbook is conceptualized pragmatically, enabling students to carry out speech acts fundamental for communication. Although grammar receives proper attention, other linguistic aspects such as word formation, semantic vocabulary groups, pronunciation, orthography, etc. are also treated on a regular basis. The textbook was received positively and was adopted by Armenian Studies Programs at universities and schools worldwide.\n\nIn 2007, Sakayan published a new Armenian textbook, this time on Eastern Armenian, also accompanied by a CD-Rom featuring Eastern Armenian native speakers. To bring the level of the existing Western Armenian textbook to that of its Eastern Armenian counterpart, in 2012 Sakayan published a second and revised edition (with CD-Rom).\n\nBoth titles are now published by YSU Press. They are consistent in methodology and structure, with a vast amount of linguistic material proportionally distributed among 12 Units, which each consist of 12 sections. These twin Armenian textbooks are considered to be the highlight of Sakayan’s career, reflecting a lifetime of pedagogical and scholarly experience in foreign language teaching and research in applied linguistics.\n\nSakayan is also a major contributor to the study of the Armenian Genocide. In 1993, she came across the journal of her maternal grandfather, Dr. Garabed Hatcherian, and has since dedicated herself to its publication and dissemination. The journal is a chronicle of the Smyrna catastrophe of 1922, which describes how the ancient port city in Asia Minor was destroyed by a massive fire, whereby the entire Christian population was either massacred or forced to flee. The journal is also a detailed account of the hardship Dr. Hatcherian and his family of eight endured in September 1922. Dr. Hatcherian’s diary is considered to be the most widely translated book about the Armenian Genocide. So far, the journal has appeared in nine languages, three of which were translated by Sakayan, who is also the general editor of all editions. All volumes include a detailed biography of the author, a literary analysis of the journal in an expanded introduction, 52 annotations of an historical and cultural nature, an afterword, and a bibliography. The meticulous editorial work has made \"An Armenian Doctor in Turkey\" a book that has received a highly favorable international reception Sakayan is also the editor-in-chief of an important book documenting the Armenian Genocide: the newest edition of Theodik’s (Theodoros Lapchindjian) book \"Memorial to April 11\" (Armenian: Յուշարձան ապրիլ 11-ի- Hushartsan Abril 11-i), which was created with the assistance of renowned journalist and human-rights activist and publisher Ragip Zarakolu (Istanbul: Belge Publishers) and appeared in 2010. This book was first compiled and published in Turkish by Theodik in 1919 in Istanbul to pay tribute to the murdered intellectuals and community leaders of 1915—writers, journalists, editors, clergymen, academics, teachers, and jurists.\n\nThis latest edition of Theodik’s Hushartsan, published in commemoration of the 95th Anniversary of the Armenian Genocide, is a bilingual production (Armenian and Turkish) with a trilingual introductory section (Armenian, Turkish, and English) dedicated to the memory of Hrant Dink, the Armenian journalist who was murdered in Istanbul in 2007. Also included in this volume is an Armenian and Turkish index of the names of the 761 Armenian martyrs of April 11 (April 24 according to the Gregorian calendar).\nOver the last decade, Sakayan has been working on a translation project with one of her former students, Evelina Makaryan, a researcher at the Institute for Armenian Studies at YSU. This project has yielded six books that Sakayan and Makaryan translated from German into Armenian and published with YSU Press. The translations are predominantly eyewitness testimonies of the Armenian Genocide that Sakayan has collected from libraries in German-speaking countries.\n\nSakayan's latest (and most important) work is a book entitled «Man treibt sie in die Wüste»; Clara und Fritz Sigrist-Hilty als Augenzeugen des Völkermordes an den Armeniern 1915–1918 [\"They drive them into the desert\": Clara and Fritz Sigrist-Hilty as eyewitnesses of the Armenian Genocide 1915-1918] on the writings of Clara Sigrist-Hilty (1884–1988). One day after their church wedding in April 1915, the civil engineer Fritz Sigrist and the nurse Clara Hilty take the train from Werdenberg (Switzerland) and travel through the war zone to South-Eastern Turkey, where Fritz has been working at the construction of the Baghdad railway since 1910. They settle in Keller (today’s Fevzipaşa), a little town on the flank of the Amanus mountains. Shortly after their arrival, the Armenian deportations start and thousands of Armenians walk past their window. For three years the couple has to witness «the lapsing of human lights down there in the steep gorge» while they live their everyday life in their little house on the remote hillside. A visit to Aleppo makes them realize that what they were seeing in Keller on a daily basis was nothing but premeditated death marches. Things deteriorate when the skilled Armenian workers at the Baghdad railway construction site must also join those death marches. Clara feels obliged to record the atrocities, first in her journal, and later in a special eyewitness account. Fritz in his turn writes some important essays on the subject.\n\nSakayan has deciphered and transcribed the documents written in Gothic handwriting; she has meticulously processed the data and embedded them in the historic events of the time. Moreover, based on a memoir by Haig Aramian, Sakayan recounts the adventurous story of how in June 1916 the couple Sigrist-Hilty helped their Armenian storehouse manager Aramian to escape certain death. The structure of the book presented itself from the available archival materials. The book consists of three parts, each centered around one main character: Clara and Fritz Sigrist-Hilty, and Haig Aramian. Through a thoughtful interplay of primary and secondary texts, Sakayan tells a coherent story of endless human suffering, but also of Christian compassion and selflessness.\n\nAt an early stage of her career, Sakayan’s knowledge of languages directed her towards translation and interpretation, and some of her translations were published early on. Sakayan has translated texts of various length and genres, from books to mini-texts, from poems to novels, and from gambits to proverbs. This furthered her interest in the theoretical aspects of translation. During the Summer semesters between 1981 and 1986, her contact and collaboration with the Translation Department of Saarbrücken University in Germany (Chairman: Dr. Wolfram Wilss) intensified her involvement and productivity in that field and resulted in several articles published in scholarly journals and books, as well as in several papers presented at international conferences.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20785969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20785969", "title": "Dystopia", "text": "Dystopia\n\nA dystopia (from the Greek δυσ- \"bad\" and τόπος \"place\"; alternatively, cacotopia, kakotopia, or simply anti-utopia) is a community or society that is undesirable or frightening. It is translated as \"not-good place\" and is an antonym of utopia, a term that was coined by Sir Thomas More and figures as the title of his best known work, \"Utopia\", published 1516, a blueprint for an ideal society with minimal crime, violence and poverty.\n\nDystopian societies appear in many artistic works, particularly in stories set in the future. Some of the most famous examples are George Orwell's \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" and Aldous Huxley's \"Brave New World\". Dystopias are often characterized by dehumanization, tyrannical governments, environmental disaster, or other characteristics associated with a cataclysmic decline in society. Dystopian societies appear in many sub-genres of fiction and are often used to draw attention to real-world issues regarding society, environment, politics, economics, religion, psychology, ethics, science, or technology. However, some authors also use the term to refer to actually-existing societies, many of which are or have been totalitarian states, or societies in an advanced state of collapse and disintegration.\n\nIt should be noted that some scholars, such as Gregory Claeys and Lyman Tower Sargent, make certain distinctions between typical synonyms of dystopias. For example, Claeys and Sargent define literary dystopias as societies imagined as substantially worse than the contemporaneous society in which the author writes, whereas anti-utopias function as criticisms of attempts to implement various concepts of utopia.\n\nThough several earlier usages are known, \"dystopia\" was deployed as an antonym for \"Utopia\" by J. S. Mill in one of his Parliamentary Speeches 1868 (\"Hansard Commons\") by adding the prefix \"dys\" ( \"bad\"), reinterpreting the initial \"U\" as the prefix \"eu\" ( \"good\") instead of \"ou\" ( \"not\"). It was used to denounce the government's Irish land policy: \"It is, perhaps, too complimentary to call them Utopians, they ought rather to be called dys-topians, or caco-topians. What is commonly called Utopian is something too good to be practicable; but what they appear to favour is too bad to be practicable.\"\n\nDecades before the first documented use of the word \"dystopia\" was \"cacotopia\" (using , \"bad, wicked\") originally proposed in 1818 by Jeremy Bentham: \"As a match for utopia (or the imagined seat of the best government) suppose a cacotopia (or the imagined seat of the worst government) discovered and described.\" Though dystopia became the most popular term, cacotopia finds occasional use, for example by Anthony Burgess, author of \"A Clockwork Orange\", who said it was a better fit for Orwell's \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" because \"it sounds worse than dystopia\". \n\nIn \"When the Sleeper Wakes\", H. G. Wells depicted the governing class as hedonistic and shallow. George Orwell contrasted Wells's world to that depicted in Jack London's \"The Iron Heel\", where the dystopian rulers are brutal and dedicated to the point of fanaticism, which Orwell considered more plausible.\n\nWhereas the political principles at the root of fictional utopias (or \"perfect worlds\") are idealistic in principle and successfully result in positive consequences for the inhabitants, the political principles on which fictional dystopias are based, while often based on utopian ideals, result in negative consequences for inhabitants because of at least one fatal flaw.\n\nDystopias are often filled with pessimistic views of the ruling class or a government that is brutal or uncaring, ruling with an \"iron hand\" or \"iron fist\". Dystopian governments are sometimes ruled by a fascist regime or dictator. These dystopian government establishments often have protagonists or groups that lead a \"resistance\" to enact change within their society, as is seen in Alan Moore's \"V for Vendetta\".\n\nDystopian political situations are depicted in novels such as \"We\", \"Parable of the Sower\", \"Darkness at Noon\", \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", \"Brave New World\", \"The Hunger Games\", \"Divergent\", and \"Fahrenheit 451\"; and in such films as \"Metropolis\", \"Brazil\", \"Battle Royale\", \"\", \"Soylent Green\", and \"The Running Man\".\n\nThe economic structures of dystopian societies in literature and other media have many variations, as the economy often relates directly to the elements that the writer is depicting as the source of the oppression. However, there are several archetypes that such societies tend to follow.\n\nA commonly occurring theme is the dichotomy of planned economies versus free market economies, a conflict which is found in such works as Ayn Rand's \"Anthem\" and Henry Kuttner's short story \"The Iron Standard\". Another example of this is reflected in Norman Jewison's 1975 film \"Rollerball\".\n\nSome dystopias, such as that of \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", feature black markets with goods that are dangerous and difficult to obtain, or the characters may be totally at the mercy of the state-controlled economy. Kurt Vonnegut's \"Player Piano\" depicts a dystopia in which the centrally controlled economic system has indeed made material abundance plentiful, but deprived the mass of humanity of meaningful labor; virtually all work is menial and unsatisfying, and only a small number of the small group that achieves education is admitted to the elite and its work. In Tanith Lee's \"Don't Bite the Sun\", there is no want of any kind – only unabashed consumption and hedonism, leading the protagonist to begin looking for a deeper meaning to existence.\n\nEven in dystopias where the economic system is not the source of the society's flaws, as in \"Brave New World\", the state often controls the economy. In \"Brave New World\", a character, reacting with horror to the suggestion of not being part of the social body, cites as a reason that everyone works for everyone else.\n\nOther works feature extensive privatization and corporatism; both byproducts of capitalism, where privately owned and unaccountable large corporations have effectively replaced the government in setting policy and making decisions. They manipulate, infiltrate, control, bribe, are contracted by, or otherwise function as government. This is seen in the novels \"Jennifer Government\" and \"Oryx and Crake\" and the movies \"Alien\", \"Avatar\", \"RoboCop\", \"Visioneers\", \"Idiocracy\", \"Soylent Green\", \"THX 1138\", \"WALL-E\" and \"Rollerball\". Corporate republics common in the cyberpunk genre, as in Neal Stephenson's \"Snow Crash\" and Philip K. Dick's \"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?\" (as well as the film \"Blade Runner\", loosely based on Dick's novel).\n\nDystopian fiction frequently draws stark contrasts between the privileges of the ruling class and the dreary existence of the working classes.\n\nIn the novel \"Brave New World\", written in 1931 by Aldous Huxley, a class system is prenatally designated in terms of Alphas, Betas, Gammas, Deltas, and Epsilons, with the lower classes having reduced brain-function and special conditioning to make them satisfied with their position in life. Outside of this society there also exist several human settlements that still exist in the \"conventional\" way but which the class system describe as \"savages\".\n\nIn \"Ypsilon Minus\" by Herbert W. Franke, people are divided into numerous alphabetically ranked groups.\n\nSome fictional dystopias, such as \"Brave New World\" and \"Fahrenheit 451\", have eradicated the family and deploy continuing efforts to keep it from re-establishing itself as a social institution. In \"Brave New World\", where children are reproduced artificially, the concepts \"mother\" and \"father\" are considered obscene. In some novels, the State is hostile to motherhood: for example, in \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", children are organized to spy on their parents; and in \"We\", by Yevgeny Zamyatin, the escape of a pregnant woman from One State is a revolt.\n\nReligious groups play the role of the oppressed and oppressors. In \"Brave New World\", for example, the establishment of the state included lopping off the tops of all crosses (as symbols of Christianity) to make them \"T\"s, (as symbols of Henry Ford's Model T). Margaret Atwood's novel \"The Handmaid's Tale\", on the other hand, takes place in a future United States under a Christianity-based theocratic regime. One of the earliest examples of this theme is Robert Hugh Benson's \"Lord of the World\", about a futuristic world where the Freemasons have taken over the world and the only other religion left is a Roman Catholic minority.\n\nIn the Russian novel \"We\" by Yevgeny Zamyatin, first published in 1921, people are permitted to live out of public view twice a week for one hour and are only referred to by numbers instead of names.\n\nIn some dystopian works, such as Kurt Vonnegut's \"Harrison Bergeron\", society forces individuals to conform to radical egalitarian social norms that discourage or suppress accomplishment or even competence as forms of inequality.\n\nViolence is prevalent in many dystopias, often in the form of war (e.g. \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\"); urban crimes led by gangs (often of teenagers) (e.g. \"A Clockwork Orange\"); rampant crime met by blood sports (e.g. \"Battle Royale\", \"The Running Man\", \"The Hunger Games\" and \"Divergent\"). Also explained in Suzanne Berne's essay \"Ground Zero\", where she explains her experience with the aftermath of 11 September 2001.\n\nFictional dystopias are commonly urban and frequently isolate their characters from all contact with the natural world. Sometimes they require their characters to avoid nature, as when walks are regarded as dangerously anti-social in Ray Bradbury's \"Fahrenheit 451\", as well as within Bradbury's short story \"The Pedestrian.\" In C. S. Lewis's \"That Hideous Strength\", science coordinated by government is directed toward the control of nature and the elimination of natural human instincts. In \"Brave New World\", the lower classes of society are conditioned to be afraid of nature, but also to visit the countryside and consume transportation and games to promote economic activity. Lois Lowry's \"The Giver\", in a manner similar to Brave New World, shows a society where technology and the desire to create a utopia has led humanity to enforce climate control on the environment, as well as to eliminate many undomesticated species, and to provide psychological and pharmaceutical repellent against basic human instincts. E. M. Forster's \"The Machine Stops\" depicts a highly changed global environment which forces people to live underground due to an atmospheric contamination. As Angel Galdon-Rodriguez points out, this sort of isolation caused by external toxic hazard is later used by Hugh Howey in his series of dystopias of the Silo Series.\n\nExcessive pollution that destroys nature is common in many dystopian films, such as \"The Matrix\", \"RoboCop\", \"WALL-E\", and \"Soylent Green\". A few \"green\" fictional dystopias do exist, such as in Michael Carson's short story \"The Punishment of Luxury\", and Russell Hoban's \"Riddley Walker\". The latter is set in the aftermath of nuclear war, \"a post-nuclear holocaust Kent, where technology has reduced to the level of the Iron Age\".\n\nContrary to the technologically utopian claims, which view technology as a beneficial addition to all aspects of humanity, technological dystopia concerns itself with and focuses largely (but not always) on the negative effects caused by new technology.\n\n1. \"Technologies reflect and encourage the worst aspects of human nature.\"\nJaron Lanier, a digital pioneer, has become a technological dystopian. “I think it’s a way of interpreting technology in which people forgot taking responsibility,” he says.\n\n“‘Oh, it’s the computer that did it, not me.’ ‘There’s no more middle class? Oh, it’s not me. The computer did it’” (Lanier). This quote explains that people begin to not only blame the technology for the changes in lifestyle but also believe that technology is an omnipotence. It also points to a technological determinist perspective in terms of reification.\n\n2. \"Technologies harm our interpersonal communication, relationships, and communities.\"\n\n3. \"Technologies reinforce hierarchies - concentrate knowledge and skills; increase surveillance and erode privacy; widen inequalities of power and wealth; giving up control to machines). \"\nDouglas Rushkoff, a technological utopian, states in his article that the professional designers “re-mystified” the computer so it wasn’t so readable anymore; users had to depend on the special programs built into the software that was incomprehensible for normal users.\n\n4. \"New technologies are sometimes regressive (worse than previous technologies).\"\n\n5. \"The unforeseen impacts of technology are negative.\"\n“ ‘The most common way is that there’s some magic artificial intelligence in the sky or in the cloud or something that knows how to translate, and what a wonderful thing that this is available for free. But there’s another way to look at it, which is the technically true way: You gather a ton of information from real live translators who have translated phrases… It’s huge but very much like Facebook, it’s selling people back to themselves… [With translation] you’re producing this result that looks magical but in the meantime, the original translators aren’t paid for their work… You’re actually shrinking the economy.’”\n\n6. \"More efficiency and choices can harm our quality of life (by causing stress, destroying jobs, making us more materialistic).\"\nIn his article “Prest-o! Change-o!,” technological dystopian James Gleick mentions the remote control being the classic example of technology that does not solve the problem “it is meant to solve.” Gleick quotes Edward Tenner, a historian of technology, that the ability and ease of switching channels by the remote control serves to increase distraction for the viewer. Then it is only expected that people will become more dissatisfied with the channel they are watching.\n\n7. \"New technologies cannot solve problems of old technologies or just create new problems.\"\nThe remote control example explains this claim as well, for the increase in laziness and dissatisfaction levels was clearly not a problem in times without the remote control. He also takes social psychologist Robert Levine’s example of Indonesians “‘whose main entertainment consists of watching the same few plays and dances, month after month, year after year,’ and with Nepalese Sherpas who eat the same meals of potatoes and tea through their entire lives. The Indonesians and Sherpas are perfectly satisfied.” Because of the invention of the remote control, it merely created more problems.\n\n8. \"Technologies destroy nature (harming human health and the environment). \"\nThe need for business replaced community and the “story online” replaced people as the “soul of the Net.” Because information was now able to be bought and sold, there was not as much communication taking place.\n\nDystopias typically reflect contemporary sociopolitical realities and extrapolate worst-case scenarios as warnings for necessary social change or caution. Dystopian fictions invariably reflect the concerns and fears of its contemporaneous culture. Due to this they are a subject of social studies. Syreeta McFadden notes that contemporary dystopian literature and films increasingly pull their inspiration from the worst imaginings of ourselves and present reality, making it often hard to distinguish between entertainment and reality.\n\nIn a 1967 study Frank Kermode suggests that the failure of religious prophecies led to a shift in how society apprehends this ancient mode. Christopher Schmidt notes that while the world goes to waste for future generations we distract ourselves from disaster by passively watching it as entertainment.\n\nIn recent years there has seen a surge of popular dystopian young adult literature and blockbuster films. Theo James, actor in \"Divergent\", notes that \"young people in particular have such a fascination with this kind of story\", saying \"It's becoming part of the consciousness. You grow up in a world where it's part of the conversation all the time – the statistics of our planet warming up. The environment is changing. The weather is different. There are things that are very visceral and very obvious, and they make you question the future and how we will survive. It's so much a part of everyday life that young people inevitably — consciously or not — are questioning their futures and how the Earth will be. I certainly do. I wonder what kind of world my children's kids will live in.\"\n\nSome have commented on this trend, saying that \"it is easier to imagine the end of the world than it is to imagine the end of capitalism\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50230037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50230037", "title": "Faroese Teachers' Association", "text": "Faroese Teachers' Association\n\nThe Faroese Teachers' Association () is a trade union for educators in the Faroe Islands. The association was established in 1898, and its press, Bókadeild Føroya Lærarafelags (Faroese Teachers' Association Publishing Company), was established in 1956.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14703725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14703725", "title": "Frank Hoar", "text": "Frank Hoar\n\nHarold Frank Hoar, FRIBA (13 September 1909 – 3 October 1976), was a British architect, artist, academic and architectural historian. Hoar first came to public prominence when, at the age of 25, he won a competition to design the first terminal building at London's Gatwick Airport in the 1930s. His architectural career focused increasingly on town planning in the post war years, when he also became a well known public commentator on domestic architecture in that era of reconstruction. A senior lecturer at University College London, Hoar was an expert on the Bavarian Baroque and wrote histories of English and European architecture at a time when architectural modernism decried the value of an historical approach to architecture. He was also an accomplished watercolour painter, his work on architectural themes having often been exhibited in the Royal Academy in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nIn a wide-ranging career Hoar was probably best known as the cartoonist \"Acanthus\", where his work appeared in \"Punch\", the \"Sunday Telegraph\", \"The New Yorker\" and \"The Builder\" magazine; and as \"Hope\" in the \"Sunday Express\". His cartoons reflected on the home front during the Second World War and were often accompanied by great architectural backdrops. As a cartoonist during the war, Hoar's political cartoons contemplated the long term direction of the war and of the perpetrators of its worst atrocities.\n\nHoar was born in Burma, then a part of the Indian Empire, to Harold Hoar and Frances (née) Harry, where his father was stationed with the Army Educational Corps. The Hoars were an old Hampshire family, settled in Catherington from the reign of Henry VIII and Lords of the Manor of Lovedean, near Catherington, in the 17th century. Harold Hoar's great grandfather, John Jeans, was the Professor of Nautical Astronomy at the Royal Naval College, Portsmouth. The Harry family descend in the male line from the Owens of Lllullo and, ultimately, from Hywel Dda and Rhodri Mawr, 10th-century Kings of Wales. Through that family, Hoar was a kinsman of Richard Nixon, 37th President of the United States.\n\nOn the family's return to England, they settled in Devon, where Hoar was educated at Plymouth College. At the age of 15, he won a scholarship to the Bartlett School of Building at University College London (UCL), with which he was to be associated for the best part of his life. Studying under Sir Albert Richardson, PRA, Hoar qualified as an ARIBA in 1931, and was awarded a diploma in Town Planning, having been awarded the Owen Jones Student Medal by the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) whilst an undergraduate. Hoar's interest in architectural history developed during his student years, where he was awarded the Roland Jones prize for the history of Medieval architecture in his second year.\n\nHoar was a keen rugby player, playing for Saracens 1st XV between 1934 and 1937.\n\nHoar's entry into the competition for the design of the first Gatwick Airport terminal building was as the leading member of a team of three architectural research students. In the early 1930s, at the beginning of the era of commercial flight, Morris Jackaman had had the idea of a circular terminal, which was well suited to the developing air traffic needs of the time, allowing sufficient aircraft to be positioned in close proximity to the terminal building. Hoar's design catered for these needs by surrounding the round terminal with five ramps, each of which connected to aircraft. The terminal was entered by a tunnel subway connected, in turn, to the railway station. Hoar's designs were commissioned in 1935 and the building still exists, affectionately known as \"The Beehive\". A model of Hoar's design was included in the gallery of architectural history at the Victoria and Albert Museum in 2004.\n\nFollowing this success, Hoar built an architectural practice in which he was often engaged to design civic buildings, especially in the 1940s and '50s. He was commissioned into the Royal Engineers in Egypt and North Africa during the Second World War where he was mainly engaged on the design of bridges. During his period with the RE, a newspaper reported that he was being considered for an army secondment to the government of Nairobi, where he would work on the re-development of the city, although this approach did not come to fruition.\n\nAfter the War, Hoar joined the London County Council's architectural department for a short period, before returning to private practice and academe. He was heavily involved in the national discussion and debate about the development and improvement of housing after the War. Aside from his involvement in the design of Council Housing with the LCC, Hoar was commissioned to design and write about the ideal new house in the opinion of the readers of the \"Sunday Express\". His simple design incorporated what were beginning to be seen as household essentials: the fitted kitchen and bathroom, the utility room and the garage. Many of Hoar's cartoons as \"Acanthus\" reflected on the demands of pre-fabrication and the ideas behind redevelopment (see further below).\n\nHoar later combined his private architectural and town planning practice with academic positions at UCL, where he was a senior lecturer at the Bartlett School. In a time of architectural asperity, he was well known for his lectures on the Bavarian Baroque - a subject far out of favour with the modernism of the age. Hoar's doctorate was awarded on this subject and a number of his watercolours of the interiors of Bavarian churches were exhibited at the Royal Academy's summer exhibition; as were his watercolours of St Peter's, Rome, a particular favourite. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Institute of British Architects in the early 1940s.\n\nThe PhD thesis on the Bavarian baroque set those churches in the context of the social and religious background of the Counter Reformation. Alongside Hoar's drawings, it was illustrated by the series of watercolours he exhibited at the RA. His great interest in architectural history, which manifested itself in his cartoons as much as his architectural and academic practice, led to the publication of his two books on the architectural history of England and Europe. Aimed at the lay reader and illustrated with drawings, plans and cross-sections, these histories draw extensively on the cultural and historical background that gives meaning to the progression of architectural styles. In many ways, they can be seen as a reaction to the prevailing ethos of his era, which spurned the historical purpose in favour of wholly utilitarian approaches; Le Corbusier, for example, famously quipped that the house was a 'machine for living in'. Hoar's hope was that: \n\nHoar's wish was, in many respects, to be granted after his death. The utilitarian, concrete architecture of the 1950s and 1960s has gradually fallen out of favour, coupled with a resurgence of traditional architectural design and a renewed appreciation of context and scale. (Compare, for example, the 1990s extension to Magdalen College Oxford with the college extensions of the post-war period.) The change in public attitudes has been assisted in no small measure by the poor living conditions suffered by so many tenants of tower blocks built in that era.\n\nOn his death in 1976 Hoar was buried in Brookwood Cemetery in Surrey.\n\nHoar was perhaps best known for his cartoons, as \"Hope\" in the \"Sunday Express\" and as \"Acanthus\" in \"Punch\". He had started illustrating cartoons as \"Acanthus\" at the beginning of the War but soon began a series of political cartoons. As his brother, George, had become a prisoner of war at the evacuation of Dunkirk in 1940, it was on security grounds that Hoar decided to publish these cartoons under the biline of \"Hope\". These cartoons offered a long term commentary on the progress and evils of the War itself. In one, Hitler, Mussolini and Tōjō glare at a shackled prisoner whose shadow reveals the noose that represents their ultimate fate. Other cartoons focus on the role of Stalin and the impact of the alliance, represented in one cartoon as the Big Three using the swastika as a pivot to squash Hitler.\n\nHoar's cartoons as \"Acanthus\" combined amusing social commentary with architectural themes and backgrounds. The early cartoons provide a great insight into the Home Front during the Second World War; his subjects included the Home Guard, the crumbling country houses of the aristocracy and the prefabricated housing built after the war. They are also of some historical interest, reflecting as they do the social mores of the day. Hoar's work was later published in \"The Builder\", an architectural and building magazine and in \"Men Only\", then what might now be described as a lifestyle magazine. In the \"Sunday Telegraph\" he published pocket cartoons in his later years.\n\nPracticing for his entire career in the age of architectural modernism (which he did not entirely spurn, his buildings being as influenced by the age as those of most architects of his generation), Hoar was fond of using his cartoons to lampoon what he saw as its excesses - especially where they threatened architectural heritage. In doing so, the breadth of his historical architectural knowledge was used to good effect. An example was his skit on a proposal by Frank Lloyd Wright for a new building on the Grand Canal in Venice, published in \"Punch\" in 1954, in which Hoar suggests a medley of architectural styles. His cartoons often reflected upon the chastened circumstances of English country houses requisitioned in the War and later left to their decline, a suitable theme for his architectural backgrounds.\n\n\nIn addition, he illustrated a number of other books.\n\nHoar married, in 1940, Rosamund Leonard (1909–1983), the daughter of Patrick Leonard, a landowner, former President of the Chamber of Commerce of Dublin and a member of the Irish Dáil, and granddaughter of Simon Mangan of Dunboyne Castle, HM Lieutenant of County Meath, and Margaret (née) Larkin, a first cousin of Brig Gen Paul Kenna, VC. Rosamund was a concert pianist who trained at the Paris Conservatoire and was well known for her performances on Radio Eireann in its earliest years.\n\nThey had four children:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1693941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1693941", "title": "Full Sail University", "text": "Full Sail University\n\nFull Sail University is a private, for-profit university in Winter Park, Florida. It was formerly a recording studio in Ohio named Full Sail Productions and Full Sail Center for the Recording Arts. Full Sail moved to Florida in 1980, running video and film production courses. It began offering online degrees in 2007. The school is partly owned by TA Associates, a private equity firm.\n\nFull Sail is not regionally accredited, but is nationally accredited by the Accrediting Commission of Career Schools and Colleges to award associate, bachelor's, and master's degrees in audio, design, computer animation and business. In November 2018 it had approximately 8,921 local students, as well as 10,250 students enrolled in online courses. Peterson's. Accessed November 2017.</ref> In 2012, the tuition fee for a twenty-one-month course of study was approximately .\n\nFull Sail University was founded by Jon Phelps in Dayton, Ohio, in 1979. Its curriculum was centered on recording arts and offered courses in audio engineering. The school relocated to Orlando, Florida, in 1980 and added new courses to its core recording arts program. In 1989, Full Sail moved to its current location at Winter Park, Florida; the following year, it was accredited to grant specialized associate degrees.\n\nEnrollment doubled between 1989 and 1991 at a time of increased interest in film and media studies. The university underwent financial difficulties in 1992 and its growth slowed. Between 1995 and 1999, it began offering specialized associate degrees and associate degrees in computer animation, digital media, game design and development, and show production and touring; these courses were later expanded into full bachelor's degree programs.\n\nIn 2005, the school offered its first bachelor's degree program, a Bachelor of Science degree in entertainment business. In 2007, the first master's degree program—also in the entertainment industry—was offered. Online degree programs began in 2007, the first of which was an online adaptation of the existing Entertainment Business Master of Science.\n\nThe additions of the master's degree programs, among other factors, led to the school being recognized as a university by the state of Florida. In 2008 it changed its name from Full Sail Real World Education to Full Sail University after attaining university status from the Florida Department of Education's Commission for Independent Education. The campus expanded with the addition of a -long backlot with 18 city facades designed to replicate the sets used in production of Hollywood films and television shows, which later expanded to .\n\nAs the university grew between 2006 and 2011, the curriculum and degree programs were broadened, adding programs such as a bachelor of science in sports marketing and media, and a master of science degree in game design.\n\nOn April 20, 2009, Full Sail marked its 30th anniversary with the opening of the Full Sail University Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 2012, presidential candidate Mitt Romney cited Full Sail as an example of the way rising costs of education could be solved. Romney did not mention that its chief executive Bill Heavener was a major campaign donor and fundraiser.\n\nIn 2012 WWE began filming episodes of its internet television show \"WWE NXT\" at Full Sail University. In June 2015, Full Sail began hosting the \"WWE Tough Enough\" series. As part of the partnership between Full Sail and WWE, students have the opportunity to produce \"WWE NXT\" tapings, during which merchandise and tickets sales contribute to a scholarship fund for students enrolled at the university. As of January 2018, the partnership had resulted in $385,000 in scholarships.\n\nFull Sail University's approximately campus is located northeast of downtown Orlando. The campus contains the administrative offices, library and academic buildings, including classrooms, an auditorium, a film backlot, and 110 studios. The university moved to Winter Park in 1989. Renovation and expansion into surrounding buildings began in 1995, adding three additional buildings by 2004. In 2009, the university expanded into a space near campus to accommodate its teaching staff for the online degree program.\n\nA 2.2 acre (0.89 ha) facility named Full Sail Studios consisting of a multi-purpose venue and a two-story recording studio and game production studio named Blackmoor after the late Dave Arneson, co-creator of Dungeons & Dragons and instructor from 1999 to 2009, opened in 2010. This addition completed the film backlot covering and 19 outdoor scenic environments.\n\nIn November 2010, a facility for research and development of new studio and remote technologies called Sports Lab Powered by ESPN was built. The lab worked in association with the ESPN Innovation Lab located at ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex at Walt Disney World and was the only sports technology lab at a Florida college or university. Two months later, approximately 200 Full Sail Online employees moved into the Gateway Center in Downtown Orlando. Also in 2011, the university announced plans to construct an educational building to house 475 faculty and staff, additional film and television soundstages and classrooms; it was scheduled for completion in early 2012. In July 2011, Full Sail acquired Lakeview Office Park in Orlando, with 225,550 square feet of office space across nine buildings.\n\nFull Sail's academic degree programs are primarily focused on audio, film and media production, video game design, animation and other studies related to the media and entertainment industries.\n\nFull Sail custom-built a learning management system for use with their online courses; the LMS is Macintosh-based, and utilizes content created by an in-house curriculum development team in conjunction with campus-based instructors.\n\nFull Sail has a 55% overall graduation rate and a 21.1% student loan default rate, higher than the national student loan default rate of 11.3%. It is also listed on the Century Foundation's website as a university which includes restrictive clauses in the enrollment contracts, which are intended to minimize the legal recourse available to students in the event of disputes.\n\nFull Sail University's Dan Patrick School of Sportscasting was established in 2017, with a new sportscasting degree program and instruction provided by sportscaster, radio personality, and actor Dan Patrick, among other industry leaders.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", Full Sail has many of the same problems as other institutions in the for-profit college industry. They reported that some of the university's academic programs have high loan burdens and low graduation rates. The $81,000 video game art program graduated 38 percent of its students, who carried a median debt load of nearly $59,000 in federal and private loans in 2008. \"The New York Times\" cited other Full Sail degree programs as having higher graduation rates, noting that the masters in entertainment business, \"a yearlong program with a $36,245 tuition, graduated 80 percent of its students, nearly 63 percent of them on time\". According to Inside Higher Ed, \"a closer look at the numbers reveals that graduation rates are not a major problem at Full Sail: the overall graduation rate is a fairly high 78 percent, according to federal data\". In the same article, however, \"The New York Times\" noted that Full Sail's students have posted criticisms of the school, including some that call Full Sail a \"scam\" because of its high costs, low placement, and difficulties with credit transfer.\n\nThe university is not regionally accredited, though it is nationally accredited by the Accrediting Commission of Career Schools and Colleges (ACCSC). The college has been subject to criticism regarding transferability of credits, as credits from nationally accredited schools often do not transfer to regionally accredited schools.\n\nIn 1989, 1990, and 1991, the Full Sail Center for the Recording Arts won the \"Mix magazine\" outstanding institutional achievement award for recording schools.\n\nIn 2005 \"Rolling Stone\" called Full Sail “one of the five best music programs in the country”.\n\nThe college was named FAPSC School/College of the Year (an award for which only career colleges in Florida were eligible) by the Florida Association of Postsecondary Schools and Colleges (FAPSC) in 2008 and 2011, 21st-century best practices in distance learning by the United States Distance Learning Association (USDLA) in 2011, and was the recipient of a 2011 New Media Consortium Center for Excellence award.\n\nInstructors at Full Sail have included \"Dungeons & Dragons\" co-creator Dave Arneson, who taught game design, and Stedman Graham.\n\nThe school created the Full Sail University Hall of Fame to recognize accomplished alumni in 2009.\n\nNotable alumni include:\n"}
{"id": "17212957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17212957", "title": "Gregory Galloway", "text": "Gregory Galloway\n\nGregory Galloway is an American fiction writer. His first novel, \"As Simple as Snow\", was released by Putnam in 2005. Though the book was meant for an adult audience, it has taken off with teen readers.\n\nThe son of a juvenile probation officer, Gregory Galloway, was born and raised in the small, southeastern Iowa town of Keokuk, located near the confluence of the Des Moines and Mississippi Rivers. The idea of writing presented itself to Galloway while he was in the throes of adolescence at Keokuk High School.\n\nGalloway later graduated with MFAs in both fiction and poetry from the Iowa Writer’s Workshop at the University of Iowa, in Iowa City. He worked at a downtown record store while attending college, a job driven by his longstanding interest in music.\n\nHis interest in music played a pivotal role in \"As Simple as Snow\", a mystery about a highly intense and intelligent Goth teenager, Anastasia Cayne, who goes missing in the middle of winter. The only clue to her disappearance is a dress left outstretched like an arrow near a hole in an icy river and a cryptic tape she leaves for the unnamed male narrator. The novel is draped in codes and clues that leave the reader speculating what will come of the relationship between Anna and the narrator.\n\nHis second novel, \"The 39 Deaths of Adam Strand\", which follows a summer in the life of a boy named Adam Strand, who, no matter how hard he tries, cannot die, was published by Dutton in February 2013.\n\nGalloway currently lives in Hoboken, New Jersey with his wife.\n\n\n\n</div>\n\n"}
{"id": "8370901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8370901", "title": "Harvard Mineralogical Museum", "text": "Harvard Mineralogical Museum\n\nThe Mineralogical and Geological Museum at Harvard, or the Harvard Mineralogical Museum short form of the name, is located on the campus of Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n\nHarvard's natural history museum for mineralogy and geology is one of the three research museums which collectively comprise the Harvard Museum of Natural History. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "803871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=803871", "title": "Hawaiiloa", "text": "Hawaiiloa\n\nHawaiiloa is the settler of the island of Hawai'i based on an ancient Hawaiian legend.\n\nAccording to the legend, Hawai'iloa was an expert fisherman and navigator. While out with a crew of men, they accidentally stumbled upon the island of Hawai'i which was named in Hawai'iloa's honor. Hawai'iloa returned to his homeland of \"Ka āina kai melemele a Kane\", \"the land of the yellow sea of Kane\" in order to bring his family back with him to Hawai'i. He then organized a colonizing expedition with his family and eight other skilled navigators. They settled on what is now the Island of Hawaii, named in his honor.\n\nThe legend contains reference to his children: Maui (eldest son), Kauai (son), and Oahu (daughter) who settled on the islands that bear their names.\n\nThe story of Hawaiiloa has received a great deal of attention from modern Hawaiians, as a realistic depiction of the settling of the islands, consistent with current anthropological and historical beliefs. Many people believe it is a validation of the veracity of ancient Hawaiian oral traditions.\n\nHowever, the story of Hawaiiloa is attested only by late sources, such as the antiquarians Abraham Fornander and Thomas George Thrum. As they did not give their original Hawaiian sources, but only digests and compilations, we cannot be sure that the tale has not been slanted towards proof of Fornander's now discredited migration theories, or that it has not been elaborated by 19th century Hawaiians eager to stress the validity of their own beliefs.\n\nHawaiiloa is not mentioned in early Hawaiian historian sources like David Malo or Samuel Kamakau. Malo says there are many stories about the origin of the Hawaiians and cites some migration tales and some legends of indigenous origin. He does not mention Hawaiiloa. Kamakau says that the first man and woman were Hulihonua and Keakahuilani, and that they were created on Oahu.\n\n\"Hawaiiloa\" is also the name of a voyaging canoe. Thought to be named after the legendary navigator, the canoe was built and sailed for international navigation. The canoe \"Hawaiiloa\" is now docked at Honolulu Harbor. It is often sailed on long voyages throughout the Pacific Ocean in hopes of studying voyaging techniques used in Ancient Hawaii.\n\n"}
{"id": "12990736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12990736", "title": "Higher Education Research Institute", "text": "Higher Education Research Institute\n\nThe Higher Education Research Institute (HERI) serves as an interdisciplinary center for research, evaluation, information, policy studies, and research training in post-secondary education. HERI is housed in the UCLA Graduate School of Education and Information Studies (GSE&IS) at the University of California, Los Angeles. The Institute's research program covers a variety of topics including the outcomes of post-secondary education, leadership development, institutional transformation, faculty performance, federal and state policy, and educational equity.\n\nHERI provides a wealth of higher education research information. The data is freely available, but recent data is only accessible by applying for specific dataset based on research needs. Data which is over 10 years is archived and freely available on the website.\n\nThe available information comes primarily from the Cooperative Institutional Research Program (CIRP). CIRP is the largest and oldest empirical study of higher education in the United States. The CIRP data comes from three main surveys, one for incoming freshmen, another given after the completion of the first year, and a final exit survey for graduating seniors. The data covered by these surveys ranges from basic demographics to the political views of students.\n\n"}
{"id": "9811115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9811115", "title": "IFAN Museum of African Arts", "text": "IFAN Museum of African Arts\n\nThe Musée de l'Institut Fondamental d'Afrique Noire or IFAN Museum of African Arts in Dakar, Senegal is one of the oldest art museums in West Africa. It was promoted by Léopold Senghor, the country's first President. In December 2007, its official title was changed to The Théodore Monod African Art Museum (\"Musée Théodore Monod d'Art africain\"), after the French naturalist Théodore André Monod, former director of IFAN. Previously its official name had been \"Le Musée d'Art africain de l'Institut fondamental d'Afrique noire Cheikh Anta Diop IFAN/CAD\".\n\nThe museum is part of the Institut Fondamental d'Afrique Noire (IFAN) institute, founded 1936 under the Popular Front government in France. When IFAN was transferred to Cheikh Anta Diop University in 1960, the building at Place Soweto near the National Assembly of Senegal was converted into a museum. It is today one of the most prestigious centers for the study of African culture and part of the Cheikh Anta Diop University. As the main cultural research center of the colonies of French West Africa, it contains important collections from across Francophone Africa.\n\nThe museum is one of the regular locations used in the Dakar Biennale exhibition, showing art by contemporary African and diaspora artists.\n\n"}
{"id": "4608876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4608876", "title": "Jean Lave", "text": "Jean Lave\n\nJean Lave is a social anthropologist who theorizes learning as changing participation in on-going changing practice. Her lifework challenges conventional theories of learning and education.\n\nShe completed her doctorate in Social Anthropology at Harvard University in 1968. She is currently a Professor Emerita of Geography at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nHer studies of apprenticeship are recognized as a significant critique of educational psychology.\nShe pioneered the theory of situated learning and communities of practice, with the assistance of her student Etienne Wenger.\n\nIn 1988, Lave and her students showed that grocery shoppers in Orange County, California who could successfully do the mathematics needed for comparison shopping were less able to do the same mathematics when they were presented with the same problems in a formal test. \n\nShe has published four books:\n\nWikibooks includes an introduction to Lave's ideas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51253066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51253066", "title": "Julia Addington", "text": "Julia Addington\n\nJulia C. Addington (June 13, 1829 – September 21, 1875) was an American elected official in Iowa. She was the first woman elected to public office in Iowa and may have been the first woman elected to public office in the United States.\n\nAddington was the daughter of William. H. Addington Sr. and Alvira Potter. She was born in New York state. She came to Iowa from Wisconsin with her family in 1863 and taught school in Cedar Falls, Waterloo, Des Moines and at the Cedar Valley Seminary in Osage. Addington was elected Superintendent of Schools for Mitchell County in 1869. She had been acting school superintendent just prior to the election, completing the term of the previous holder of that position. Addington was elected as part of the \"Bolter\" faction of the Republican Party, who favoured Mitchell as the county seat. She received exactly the same number of votes as Republican candidate Milton N. Browne and the election was settled by flipping a coin. Because she was a woman, her election was not universally accepted, even though the Iowa attorney general Henry O'Connor ruled that her election was legal since there was no explicit requirement in the law for a candidate to be male. During her time in office, 17 new schools were built. She retired for health reasons in 1871.\n\nAddington died at home in Stacyville at the age of 46.\n"}
{"id": "43555776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43555776", "title": "Kate Middleton (free-diver)", "text": "Kate Middleton (free-diver)\n\nKate Middleton (born December 23, 1987 in Canada) is the current New Zealand record holder in the free immersion discipline (FIM) and constant weight with fins (CWT). She is the 3rd deepest woman in the world and Vice World Champion Freediver. She owns a Yoga and Freediving resort in Gili Trawangan, Indonesia where she trains and teaches.\n\n\nA short movie was made in 2012 about her life in Indonesia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1258174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1258174", "title": "Keith F. Otterbein", "text": "Keith F. Otterbein\n\nDr. Keith F. Otterbein (1936–2015) was an Emeritus Professor of Anthropology at the University at Buffalo (SUNYAB), in the United States.\n\nDr. Otterbein was a past president of the Human Relations Area Files and a frequent contributor to cross-cultural research, primarily in warfare related topics.\n\nOtterbein is the author of \"How War Began\" (2004), in which he explored the origins of warfare in human society.\n\nHe died on June 17, 2015, at age 79.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11338844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11338844", "title": "Leaving Certificate Vocational Programme", "text": "Leaving Certificate Vocational Programme\n\nThe Leaving Certificate Vocational Programme (LCVP) is a two-year optional Education Programme of the Irish Department of Education and Skills. THE LCVP was introduced in 1989. According to the Department of Education and Skills, the programme is \"designed to give a strong vocational dimension to the Leaving Certificate (established). The programme combines the virtues of academic study with a new and dynamic focus on self-directed learning, enterprise, work and the community\" \n\nThe programme is aimed at young people who have completed the Junior Certificate and are entering the senior cycle of Secondary School education, but provides a stronger vocational focus than the more established Leaving Certificate. The LCVP aims to give students an opportunity to develop their interpersonal, vocational and technological skills as well as providing extra points for grades for getting into universities. \n\nStudents must pass four Leaving Certificate subjects, one of which must be Irish language [only for Irish students] and one Link Modules which is optional. Typically, students would take seven Leaving Certificate subjects along with the one link modules.\n\nAccording to The Irish Examiner News, approximately 15,000 (15,274) students took exams for the Leaving Certificate Vocational Programme. In comparison, according to this article, overall roughly 57,000 students recently took exams for the Irish Leaving Certificate.\n\n"}
{"id": "48685091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48685091", "title": "Life on Display (book)", "text": "Life on Display (book)\n\nLife on Display: Revolutionizing U.S. Museums of Science and Natural History in the Twentieth Century is a history of modern American science education and its relationship with museums of science. It was written by Karen A. Rader and Victoria E. M. Cain and published by the University of Chicago Press in 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53716423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53716423", "title": "List of universities in Palau", "text": "List of universities in Palau\n\nThis is a list of universities in Palau.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52943872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52943872", "title": "Lucy Ann Kidd-Key", "text": "Lucy Ann Kidd-Key\n\nLucy Ann Kidd–Key (née Lucy Ann Thornton; at first marriage, Lucy Ann Kidd; November 15, 1839 – September 13, 1916) was an American educator and music college administrator from the U.S. state of Kentucky. She founded and served as first president of the North Texas Female College (renamed Kidd-Key College), of Sherman, Texas, the first woman south of the Mason–Dixon line to hold such a position.\n\nLucy Ann Thornton was born at Bardstown, Kentucky, November 15, 1839 (another source states June 11, 1839), daughter of Willis Strather and Esther (Stevens) Thornton; granddaughter of James Thornton, of Kentucky, and great-granddaughter of Sir William Thornton, of Virginia. On the maternal side she was of South Carolina Huguenot ancestry. There was a sister, Sarah (born 1836), who married Dr. W. Y. Gadberry.\n\nFor the most part, her education was acquired at Rev. Stuart Robinson's Institute at Georgetown, Kentucky, where she specialized in literature and history. \n\nAbout 1858, at age 17, she married Dr. Henry Byrd Kidd (1821–1877) of Kentucky, a physician-planter, and took up her residence on an extensive plantation near Yazoo City, Mississippi. Her sister and brother-in-law moved to Yazoo as well. The American Civil War brought ruin and disaster to her husband. At his death in 1877, after a long period of invalidism, he left many debts, and three small children. She took up the management of the debts, and eventually paid them off. \n\nShe accepted the position of presiding teacher at Whitworth College (now Whitworth University), Brookhaven, Mississippi, and remained there 10 years. In 1888, she became president of the North Texas Female College (now Kidd-Key College), Sherman, Texas. This institution had fallen into disrepute, and had been closed for two years. The buildings were in a dilapidated condition, and but partly finished. With a valuation on the property of US$15,000 it was encumbered with a debt of US$11,000. She reopened the college with 60 boarders and an enrollment of nearly 100 students. \n\nShe was married in 1894, to Bishop Joseph Staunton Key (1829–1916), of the Methodist Episcopal Church. In 1908, she organized the Kidd-Key Conservatory of Music and Art, of which she became the president, and brought some of the best teachers available. The college graduated thousands of southern women. \n\nKidd-Key died at Sherman, September 13, 1916, survived by her second husband. Two children by the first union also survived her: Sara, who married Louis Verse, of Sherman, and Edwin Kidd, an educator of Sherman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43448700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43448700", "title": "Macondistas", "text": "Macondistas\n\nThe term “Macondistas” refers to authors and members of the writing community who are alumni of the Macondo Writers Workshop, which was founded by Sandra Cisneros in 1995. The workshop is for writers whose work is socially engaged and who have addressed the needs of underrepresented communities via their writing. For years, the workshop was made possible by the philanthropic endeavors of Cisneros and the Macondo Foundation, though currently the Guadalupe Cultural Arts Center in San Antonio, Texas, administers and hosts the annual workshop. The term \"Macondo\" was first used in Gabriel García Márquez' 1967 novel \"One Hundred Years of Solitude\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3555328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3555328", "title": "Marisa Catalina Casey", "text": "Marisa Catalina Casey\n\nMarisa Catalina Casey (born in Bogotá, Colombia on November 5, 1979), is a photographer, graphic designer, educator, and co-author of the book \"Born in Our Hearts\". A current Peace Corps volunteer in Ecuador (2012-2014), Casey is the Founder and Executive Director of Starting Artists, Inc., a nonprofit organization benefiting underserved youth in Brooklyn, New York through training in the arts and entrepreneurship. Her 6-word memoir and photo-illustration are included in the book, \"Not Quite What I Was Planning: Six-Word Memoirs by Writers Famous and Obscure\" and she is a contributor to the 2010 book, \"The World I Dream Of\".\n\nCasey was a semi-finalist for the 2007-8 and 2008-9 Echoing Green Fellowship for Social Entrepreneurs and was a 2008-9 YouthActionNet Global Fellow through the International Youth Foundation. Chosen to participate in the 2009 American Express Nonprofit Leadership Institute, Casey was the only American representative at the 2010 Lucca Leadership Foundations course in South Africa. Casey is a newly named member of the Transatlantic Network 2020 (TN2020), a coalition of young Europeans and North Americans run by the British Council taking collaborative action on global issues, and is finishing her 3-year term on the Americans for the Arts Emerging Leaders Council.\n\nCasey was raised in Newton, Massachusetts and attended Newton South High School (Class of 1997). She then attended Brown University and graduated with honors in Latin American Studies in 2001. Casey later received grants from the Production Workshop and the Creative Arts Council to complete her creative thesis project, \"Latin America in Abstract: A Personal Journey\". She earned her Masters of Arts in Arts Administration from Teachers College, Columbia University.\n\nCasey's photography has been published by the non-governmental organization CARE, and in several literary arts journals. She received a grant from the Newton chapter of the Massachusetts Cultural Council for her photography and has been interviewed by the \"Boston Globe\", the \"Boston Herald\", the \"New York Daily News\", and the \"Providence Journal\", among other publications.\n\nCasey's father is an attorney in Boston, Massachusetts; her mother is the Founder and Executive Director of the Alliance for Children international adoption agency and the Alliance for Children Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "19652122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19652122", "title": "Mendeley", "text": "Mendeley\n\nMendeley is a desktop and web program produced by Elsevier for managing and sharing research papers, discovering research data and collaborating online. It combines Mendeley Desktop, a PDF and reference management application available for Windows, macOS (Sierra and High Sierra no longer supported) and Linux. It also provides Mendeley for Android and iOS, with Mendeley Web, an online social network for researchers.\n\nMendeley requires the user to store all basic citation data on its servers—storing copies of documents is at the user's discretion. Upon registration, Mendeley provides the user with 2 GB of free web storage space, which is upgradeable at a cost.\n\nMendeley, named after the biologist Gregor Mendel and chemist Dmitri Mendeleyev, was founded in November 2007 by three German PhD students and is based in London. The first public beta version was released in August 2008. The company's investors include some people previously involved with Last.fm, Skype, and Warner Music Group, as well as academics from Cambridge and Johns Hopkins University.\n\nMendeley won several awards in 2009: Plugg.eu \"European Start-up of the Year 2009\", TechCrunch Europas \"Best Social Innovation Which Benefits Society 2009\", and The Guardian ranked it #6 in \"Top 100 tech media companies\".\n\nOn September 23, 2013, Mendeley announced iPhone and iPad apps that are free to install.\n\nMendeley was purchased by the Elsevier publishing company in 2013. The deal price was speculated to be €50 million (US$65 million), following earlier speculation that it was between $69 million and $100 million. The sale led to debate on scientific networks and in the media interested in Open Access, and upset members of the scientific community who felt that the program's acquisition by publishing giant Elsevier, known for implementing restrictive publishing practices, the high prices of their journals (see The Cost of Knowledge), and publicly supporting the SOPA bill, was antithetical to the open sharing model of Mendeley.\nDavid Dobbs, in \"The New Yorker\", suggested Elsevier's reasons for buying Mendeley could have been to acquire its user data and/or to \"destroy or coopt an open-science icon that threatens its business model.\"\n\nIn 2012, Mendeley was one of the repositories for green Open Access recommended by Peter Suber. The recommendation was revoked in 2013 after Elsevier bought Mendeley.\n\nIn 2018, an update to Mendeley resulted in some users losing PDFs and annotations stored in their accounts. After a number of weeks, Elsevier announced a potential fix for this problem.\n\nSince its 1.19 release in 2018 Mendeley encrypts its local database using a proprietary algorithm, making it difficult for users to export their data from the application and possibly creating a vendor lock-in situation.\n\nMendeley is available either as a premium payable version or a basic version that is free but requires registration.\n\n"}
{"id": "56804712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56804712", "title": "Monroe Wheeler", "text": "Monroe Wheeler\n\nMonroe Wheeler (13 February 1899 – 14 August 1988) was an American publisher and museum coordinator.\n\nWheeler was born in Evanston, Illinois in 1899. He met Glenway Wescott who was to be friend or partner for the rest of their lives in 1919. In the 1920s Wescott and Wheeler were working in Germany and France.\n\nWith an inheritance from his family, Wheeler bought a small print, and with Barbara Harrison, established \"Harrison of Paris\", specializing in limited-edition books; they published in total thirteen books, including two works by Wheeler's partner, Glenway Wescott. In 1934 they moved to press to New York City. The last book published by \"Harrison of Paris\" was \"Hacienda\" by Katherine Anne Porter.\n\nIn 1935 Wheeler was employed by New York's Museum of Modern Art. He was on the Library Committee and in three years he was \"Director of Membership\" and the following year \"Director of Publications\". In 1940 MOMA created the role of \"Director of Exhibitions\" and Wheeler was the first person to hold the post. In 1944 he became one of MOMA's Trustees and later he sat on the Executive Committee, the Exhibitions Program Committee, and also the Coordination Committee. After the war in 1948, Wheeler was leading the Exhibitions and Publications, the outreach programs and the library.\n\nFor over ten years, photographer George Platt Lynes had a relationship with Wheeler and Glenway Wescott. Both Paul Cadmus, \"Conversation Piece\" (1940), then Jared French took a triptych portrait of Wheeler, Wescott and Platt Lynes. \"When We Were Three: The Travel Albums of George Platt Lynes, Monroe Wheeler, and Glenway Wescott, 1925-1935\" was published in 1998. Another of Wheeler's lovers was Christian William Miller.\n\nWhen Lloyd Wescott, Glenway's brother, moved to a farm in Union Township in 1936, Wescott, Wheeler and Lynes took over one of Lloyd's farm's houses and they called it \"Stone-Blossom\". In 1959, when Lloyd Wescott acquired a farm near Rosemont in Delaware Township, Hunterdon County, New Jersey, Glen Wescott moved into a stone house named \"Haymeadows\" on his brother's land.\n\nIn 1987, Glen Wescott died of a stroke at home. Wheeler died in New York City in 1988, but his ashes were buried with Wescott and this latter family at Haymeadows.\n"}
{"id": "28498675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28498675", "title": "Mountain &amp; Plains ERC", "text": "Mountain &amp; Plains ERC\n\nThe Mountain & Plains Education and Research Center is one of eighteen Education and Research Centers funded by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). NIOSH and the NIOSH Education and Research Centers are affiliated with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.\n\nThe Mountain & Plains Education and Research Center is a collaboration between the University of Colorado Denver (Anschutz Medical Campus), Colorado State University, National Jewish Health, the University of New Mexico and Denver Health.\n\nThe Mountain & Plains ERC provides financial support for graduate students and medical residents who focus their studies on issues related to health and safety in the workplace. In particular, the Mountain & Plains ERC supports the following academic programs:\n\n- Industrial Hygiene (Colorado State University)\n\n- Occupational and Environmental Medicine (UC Denver, Denver Health & National Jewish Health)\n\n- Health Physics (Colorado State University)\n\n- Occupational health psychology (Colorado State University)\n\n- Ergonomics (Colorado State University)\n\nIn addition to providing financial support for future occupational safety and health professionals, the Mountain & Plains ERC engages in the following activities:\n\n- Outreach to businesses, government agencies, labor unions and community organizations\n\n- Continuing education for occupational health and safety professionals\n\n- Pilot grants for researchers and community organizations\n\n"}
{"id": "25718630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25718630", "title": "Parrot AR.Drone", "text": "Parrot AR.Drone\n\nParrot AR.Drone is a discontinued remote controlled flying quadcopter helicopter built by the French company Parrot. The drone is designed to be controlled by mobile or tablet operating systems such as the supported iOS or Android within their respective apps or the unofficial software available for Windows Phone, Samsung BADA and Symbian devices.\n\nThe Parrot AR.Drone was unveiled at the International CES 2010 in Las Vegas along with demonstration of the iOS applications used to control it. Along with AR.Freeflight, the application designed for free operation of the drone, Parrot also released AR.Race, allowing users to take part in solo games, or interact with other drones in combat simulations.\n\nThe airframe of the AR.Drone, constructed from nylon and carbon fiber parts, measures across. Two interchangeable hulls were supplied with the airframe, one is designed for indoor and one for outdoor flight. The indoor hull is made from EPP foam, and encases the circumference of the blades for protection. The outdoor-use hull is made from lightweight plastic and allows for increased maneuverability. In total, the AR.Drone has six degrees of freedom, with a miniaturized inertial measurement unit tracking the pitch, roll and yaw for use in stabilisation.\n\nInside the airframe, a range of sensors assist flight, enabling the interface used by pilots to be simpler, and making advanced flight easier. The onboard computer runs a Linux operating system, and communicates with the pilot through a self-generated Wi-Fi hotspot. The onboard sensors include an ultrasonic altimeter, which is used to provide vertical stabilization up to . The rotors are powered by 15 watt, brushless motors powered by an 11.1 Volt lithium polymer battery. This provides approximately 12 minutes of flight time at a speed of . Coupled with software on the piloting device, the forward-facing camera allows the drone to build a 3D environment, track objects and drones, and validate shots in augmented reality games.\n\n\nThe successor to the original drone, the AR.Drone 2.0 was unveiled at CES Las Vegas 2012. Rather than redesigning the product, improvements were made to its functionality, along with developing a larger ecosystem to support pilots.\nThe equipment on board AR.Drone 2.0 was significantly upgraded to improve the drone's function. The camera quality was increased to 720p, and many of the onboard sensors were made more sensitive, allowing for greater control. The ultrasound altimeter was enhanced with the addition of an air pressure sensor, allowing for more stable flight and hovering. The resources available to the onboard computer were also improved, and the Wi-Fi hardware was updated to follow the new 802.11n standard. Other sensor improvements included an upgraded 3-axis gyroscope, along with a 3-axis accelerometer and magnetometer.\n\nAt CES 2013, Parrot announced the Flight Recorder add-on for the AR.Drone 2.0. It adds 4GB of storage to the drone, along with GPS tracking and flight data recording. It will allow pilots to define a flight path by selecting a series of waypoints that the drone will follow. Flight Recorder features can be controlled via mobile phone and desktop applications, with \"Director Mode\" and \"Rescue Mode\" included. An extended battery designed to increase flight time by up to 50% was also launched alongside the Flight Recorder.\n\n\nPreviously known as AR.Freeflight, provides piloting function for AR.Drones, and the ability to take photos and videos. AR.Drone was launched in 2010 alongside the original drone, and provides piloting capabilities via iOS devices. It allows pilots to record video or capture images from their drone's onboard cameras. When originally launched pilots could control drones by tilting their device, and data from the onboard accelerometer was converted into flight controls. On-screen controls provide joystick-style movement, and other functions that allow pilots to perform aerobatics, play games, or update their drone's firmware. The app also integrates with AR.Drone Academy, where pilots can map and share flight details with other AR.Drone users. AR.Drone is available on the Google Play store, where it has kept the name AR.Freeflight.\nAR.Race is a piloting and multiplayer gaming application for the AR.Drone 2.0. Using a target included with the drone, pilots can define a race course with a start and finish line. The drone will then detect when it crosses this line, and records the flight time in between these two events. Pilots may invite other AR.Drones to join the race, and scores are aggregated into a leaderboard. The application also integrates with AR.Drone Academy and, when the AR.Freeflight application was removed from the iOS App Store, was updated to include basic piloting controls. AR.Race 2, and its predecessor AR.Race are only available on for iOS devices.\n\nA single-player augmented reality application for iOS devices. It uses the target provided with the AR.Drone 2.0 to build a 3D environment in which pilots must perform various tasks. The object of the game is to construct a rocket out of pieces that are placed into the physical environment by the drone's software. Along with these pieces, enemies are generated that must be fought. The drone also records the time it takes to complete this task successfully, and this is recorded in AR.Drone Academy, where a global leaderboard is generated, and videos and images can be shared amongst the community.\n\nAn augmented, multiplayer game that allows pilots to engage a human target with virtual weapons within a 3D space. Unlike the other multiplayer games made by Parrot, AR.Hunter only requires one AR.Drone. Both the pilot and the 'target' have the application installed on iOS devices, and the 'target' uses theirs to fire their virtual weapons at the drone. In order for the drone to recognise and engage the 'target', they must wear a colored cap, purchased separately from Parrot. The game can be played without the cap, but the drone is unable to engage the 'target', and the pilot must instead evade detection or attack. AR.Hunter is not compatible with the AR.Drone 2.0.\n\nTo aid third party developers, Parrot launched the AR.Drone open API game development platform. Due to this open platform, affordability, and wide range of onboard sensory equipment, the AR.Drone is becoming an increasingly popular tool in research and education. It has been used for experiments with visual-based autonomous navigation, autonomous surveillance, and human-machine interaction. Research in these areas has resulted in third party applications being released, some open source, that extend the official capabilities of the drone.\n\nIn France, the AR.Drone 2.0 was tested by a Special Operations unit for aerial reconnaissance, whilst other companies have been developing software that allows the drone to track sports activities, and generate training feedback. An AR.Drone was used by Tim Pool during the Occupy Wall Street protest, running modified software that allowed it to stream directly to an internet channel. He theorised that a chain of command could be set up, where multiple people could step up and take control should the primary operator be detained by police. To further this, he began development of a new control system, replacing the existing Wi-Fi hotspot with a 3G chip. This would allow users to control drones via the internet, and potentially from remote locations.\n\nAn open source framework \"Yet another drone\", developed by students at University of Hamburg will allow programmers to easily build applications for AR Drone in Java.\n\nSince the launch of the original AR.Drone, around half a million units have been sold. It received a 2010 CES Innovations award for Electronic Gaming Hardware. It was awarded Best Smart Product of 2015 according to Wellbots Top 25 Smart Products Ranking of 2015. The AR.Drone 2.0 was praised for the relative ease with which pilots could learn how to fly it; the original release required more intense practice.\n\nSince its initial release, individuals, organizations, and governments have expressed concern over the use of AR.Drones for surveillance. Although the technology required to feed and record live video taken from unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) existed prior to the release of the AR.Drone, it was not widely available to members of the public. In Germany, consumer affairs minister Ilse Aigner described the drone as a privacy threat, and called for restrictions to be placed on the use of cameras mounted on aerial platforms. A UK advertising campaign, showing an AR.Drone being flown into the grounds of Buckingham Palace was withdrawn after concerns that it was demonstrating illegal use of the drone. In the US, the use of AR.Drones is governed by the Federal Aviation Administration at the Federal level and local jurisdiction, which restricts the use of UAVs above 400 ft, and does not allow them to be used for commercial purposes.\n\n"}
{"id": "46408242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46408242", "title": "Rebecca Root", "text": "Rebecca Root\n\nRebecca Root (born 10 May 1969) is a British actress and stand-up comedian. She was rated 18th in \"The Independent on Sunday\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Rainbow List 2014, which named her as one of the very few openly trans actresses in mainstream television, alongside Laverne Cox and Adèle Anderson. She played the leading role in the 2015–2016 BBC Two sitcom \"Boy Meets Girl\".\n\nRoot is also a voice coach, teaching at the East 15 Acting School and from her home in Highgate, London. She started that career after she transitioned and acting work became harder to find. She graduated from the Royal Central School of Speech and Drama with a Master of Arts in Vocal Studies. Her thesis, \"There and Back Again: Adventures in Genderland\", has since been published in the peer reviewed journal \"Voice and Speech Review\", and she advertises voice therapy specifically for transgender people to help them \"find a voice they feel fits their gender\".\n\nIn 2015 Root starred in the BBC Radio 4 drama \"1977\", about the transgender popular composer Angela Morley who had become a household name to British radio audiences as Wally Stott. Written by Sarah Wooley, it followed the year in which Morley was enlisted to complete composition of the musical soundtrack to the film Watership Down in three weeks flat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58803879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58803879", "title": "Sister journal", "text": "Sister journal\n\nIn academic publishing, a sister journal or companion journal is a newer academic journal that is affiliated with an older, better-established journal in the same field.\n"}
{"id": "46407113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46407113", "title": "Sprachenatelier Berlin", "text": "Sprachenatelier Berlin\n\nDas Sprachenatelier Berlin - Institute for languages, art and culture was founded as both a language school and a studio, a place where intercultural encounters and creative exchange are combined in the context of language learning.\n\nIn addition to German language courses and courses in more than forty foreign languages, festivals, film evenings, readings, concerts, exhibitions, workshops, political discussions and seminars are also organised. The institute offers sufficient space for artists and creatives to organise events and reach a broad audience. Numerous performances, plays, film showings, dance and theatre workshops as well as all forms of exhibitions have taken place at the Sprachenatelier in the past.\n\nSprachenatelier's spaces are regularly used for political information and discussion forums with experts from many countries. Additionally, every year - besides the regular various language courses, there is always a broad offer of cultural events all students of the Sprachenatelier can join.\n\n Oskar Garbe, a master mason from Lichtenberg, Berlin, was a successful property developer around 1900. In Berlin he built the Erlöserkirche in Berlin (Church of the Redeemer) and the Samariterkirche (Samariter Church), various commercial buildings, a cabaret theatre and several luxury villas. In 1907 he built a prestigious residential building at 40 Frankfurter Allee, which is where the Sprachenatelier can be found today. The architect Hans Liepe developed the building's plans in 1906 for Mr Garbe, who himself designed the layout of the apartments and then lived on the second floor in a nine room apartment. \n\n Sprachenatelier Berlin is officially recognised by the \"Berlin Senate\", \"CSN Sweden\" National Board of Student Aid (Sweden), \"ANSA Norway\" and \"EBACO\" . It is a member of \"fadaf\" and also licensed test centre for all \"telc\" exams, for \"CnaVT\" , \"TCF\" Test de connaissance du français and Swedex.\n\nEvery summer from June until the end of August, the Sprachenatelier Berlin offers numerous cultural programs for its students every week. While the language learners can choose between five different excursions and activities every day (from Monday until Friday) there are also weekend trips to famous German cities such as Potsdam, Dresden, Leipzig and many more. The normal \"Sommerkulturprogramm\" includes sightseeing through Berlin; visiting numerous exhibitions of all kinds as well as restaurants, bars and streetfood markets; going to open air cinemas; doing activities such as mini golf, playing volleyball or other sports as well as having barbecue together. An annual highlight of the summer program is the great Night of Talents.\n\n\"The World is not my Village\", an open forum for the discussion of themes such as globalisation, migration and environment, with a focus on people and their realm of experience.\n\n\"Kulturmittwoch\" is weekly, extracurricular cultural programme. Museum visits, neighbourhood walks, lectures or film showings offer an insight into German culture as well as the chance to put German language skills into practice and make new contacts.\n\nOther important events:\nAt Sprachenatelier Berlin the following languages are taught both in group courses and individual tuition: Albanian, Arabic, Armenian, Bengali, Bulgarian, Catalan, Chinese Danish, German, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, Greek, Georgian, Hebrew, Hindi, Italian, Irish, Icelandic, Japanese, Kiswahili, Korean, Kurdish, Latin, Latvian, Lithuanian, Mongolian, Nepalese, Dutch, Norwegian, Persian, Polish, Romanian, Portuguese, Russian, Slovak, Swedish, Slovenian, Spanish, Serbian / Croatian / Bosnian, Thai, Czech, Turkish, Ukrainian, Hungarian, and Urdu.\n\n"}
{"id": "4054746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4054746", "title": "Student leader", "text": "Student leader\n\nA student leader is any student who takes on the responsibility of spreading knowledge through inspiration, tutoring, campaigns etc.\nA student leader strives to change the world by starting with their own community. Hardik Padhiyar is a student leader.\n\nStudent leadership positions are often made available through an application process . This process varies from school to school and position to position, some being highly selective while others are relatively easy to fill. Some student leadership positions are unpaid while others receive an hourly wage for their work. Many positions that have odd hours or unclear work times will receive a stipend rather than an hourly wage. This is often the case for resident assistants, members of student government, and student representatives on government boards or panels.\n\nIn a broader sense, a student leader can take up the responsibility of their community, their city, their country or the world and work towards it with our without the help of a mentor.\n\nAlthough most student positions on government panels are advisory, the state boards of education of California and Massachusetts include student members with full voting authority.\n\nA student leader could be any of the following roles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44617393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44617393", "title": "Sue Chandler", "text": "Sue Chandler\n\nF. Sue Chandler, known as Sue (or Suzanne) Chandler, is a British schoolteacher and textbook writer, who, together with co-author Linda Bostock, wrote the \"Bostock and Chandler\" series of textbooks for advanced level mathematics in the UK. At the time she began the series, she was a full-time mathematics teacher at Southgate Technical College in Southgate, London. She eventually stopped teaching courses and focused on textbook writing. Her books have sold more than 5 million copies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54519146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54519146", "title": "Traditional student", "text": "Traditional student\n\nA traditional student is a category of students at colleges and universities. \n\nIn the United States, it is used to refer to post-secondary students between 18-22 years old who enroll directly from high school, attend full-time, live on campus, and do not have major life and work responsibilities (e.g., full-time job or dependents). Historically, traditional students made up the majority of students. However, traditional-aged college students are now a minority in the United States. It is frequently observed that traditional higher education programs and policies are geared toward, and the outcome of, the previous era when traditional students were the main market for higher education. \n\nTraditional students are contrasted with non-traditional students, which typically refers to adult students who are not participating in higher education immediately after high school, are 25 years old and older, and/or have major life and work roles and responsibilities.\n"}
{"id": "995250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=995250", "title": "United Nations Institute for Training and Research", "text": "United Nations Institute for Training and Research\n\nThe United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR) is a dedicated training arm of the United Nations system. UNITAR provides training and capacity development activities to assist mainly developing countries with special attention to Least Developed Countries (LDCs), Small Island Developing States (SIDS) and other groups and communities who are most vulnerable, including those in conflict situations. \n\n\nThe idea of a United Nations training and research institute was mentioned for the first time in a 1962 resolution of the UN General Assembly. UNITAR was founded in 1963, following the recommendation of the UN Economic and Social Council to the General Assembly, which commissioned the UN Secretary-General with the establishment of a United Nations Institute for Training and Research as an autonomous body within the UN system.\n\nThe creation of UNITAR coincided with the addition of 36 States since 1960, including 28 African States to the United Nations. That unprecedented wave of decolonization created a critical need for assistance, as many of the newly-independent States lacked the capacity to train their young diplomats. Shaped by its first four Executive Directors originally from newly-independent African States, the Institute’s vision of training was developed considering the very needs and priorities of recipient countries.\n\nUNITAR commenced functioning in March 1965. The Institute originally had its headquarters based in New York. In 1993, UNITAR’s headquarters were transferred to Geneva (Switzerland).\n\nThe Institute provides training and learning services to national and local government officials of UN member states and civil society representatives from around the world. UNITAR strives to respond to the growing demand from UN member States, especially the Least Developed Countries, for capacity development in the thematic areas of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.\n\nUNITAR helps governments to understand climate change, chemicals and waste management, and green economy. The Institute also assists ministries of finance through its courses on public debt management, finance and trade, and it provides government officials with training in Peacekeeping and conflict prevention. Through its programme on operational satellite applications (UNOSAT), the Institute provides satellite imagery and analysis.\n\nSince 2003 UNITAR provides courses to support municipal and regional leaders dealing with complex public policies.\n\nAnother task of the Institute is to organize knowledge sharing events for the UN Secretary-General, including the annual seminar for Special Representatives of the UN Secretary-General as well as strategic meetings for UN Departments. UNITAR also spearheads UN inter-agency initiatives such as the one UN Learning Platform on Climate Change or the Global Migration Group.\n\nUNITAR’s research activities are focusing on knowledge systems and their practical applications. They support the Institute’s training activities through the provision of learning environments adapted to respond to the needs of adult learners, thus facilitating the increase, efficiency and outreach of the Institute’s capacity development activities.\n\nOperated as an autonomous body within the United Nations system, UNITAR is headed by an Executive Director and governed by a Board of Trustees. The Executive Director and the members of the Board of Trustees are appointed by the United Nations Secretary-General.\n\nUNITAR Executive Directors:\n\nUNITAR is a project-based organization and does not receive any funds from the regular United Nations budget. The Institute is financed entirely from voluntary contributions mainly from UN Member States, other UN agencies, international and Intergovernmental organization, NGOs and the private sector.\n\nHeadquarters are based in Geneva (Switzerland), complemented with two out posted offices in New York (US) and Hiroshima (Japan), and project offices in Port Harcourt (Nigeria) and Islamabad (Pakistan).\n\nUNITAR also delivers training through its CIFAL Global Network (\"Centre International de Formation des Autorités et Leaders\") composed of 17 international, associated training centers. These CIFAL centers are located across Asia, Africa, Australia, Europe, the Americas and the Caribbean.\n\nUNITAR has training expertise in multilateral diplomacy, conflict prevention and peacemaking, peacekeeping, adaptation to climate change, green economy, environmental governance, chemicals and waste management, local governance, as well as public finance and trade, and supporting coherence for the 2030 Agenda amongst others. UNITAR also serves as a research centre for application of satellite imagery to humanitarian, conflict or disaster situations, through UNOSAT, the Operational Satellite Applications Programme.\n\nThe work of the Institute is organized under five pillars:\n\n"}
{"id": "427614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427614", "title": "University of Basel", "text": "University of Basel\n\nThe University of Basel (German: \"Universität Basel\") is located in Basel, Switzerland. Founded on 4 April 1460, it is Switzerland’s oldest university and among the world's oldest surviving universities. The university is traditionally counted among the leading institutions of higher learning in the country.\n\nThe associated Basel University Library is the largest and among the most important libraries in the country. The university hosts the faculties of theology, law, medicine, humanities and social sciences, science, psychology, and business and economics, as well as numerous cross-disciplinary subjects and institutes, such as the Biozentrum for biomedical research and the Institute for European Global Studies. In 2016, the University boasted 12,852 students and 377 professors. International students accounted for 24 percent of the student body.\n\nIn its over 500-year history the university has been home to Erasmus of Rotterdam, Paracelsus, Daniel Bernoulli, Leonhard Euler, Jacob Burckhardt, Friedrich Nietzsche, Tadeusz Reichstein, Karl Jaspers, Carl Gustav Jung, Karl Barth and Jeanne Hersch. The institution is associated with nine Nobel prize winners and two Presidents of the Swiss Confederation.\n\nThe University of Basel was founded in connection with the Council of Basel. The deed of foundation given in the form of a Papal bull by Pope Pius II on November 12, 1459, and the official opening ceremony was held on April 4, 1460. Originally the University of Basel was decreed to have four faculties—arts, medicine, theology, and jurisprudence. The faculty of arts served until 1818 as the foundation for the other three academic subjects. In the eighteenth century as Basel became more commercial, the university, one of the centres of learning in the Renaissance, slipped into insignificance. Enrollment which had been over a thousand around 1600, dropped to sixty in 1785 with eighteen professors. The professors themselves were mostly sons of the elite.\n\nOver the course of centuries as many scholars came to the city, Basel became an early centre of book printing and humanism. Around the same time as the university itself, the Basel University Library was founded. Today it has over three million books and writings and is the largest library in Switzerland.\n\nLocated in what was once a politically volatile area, the University’s fate often ebbed and flowed with regional political developments, including the Reformation, the Kantonstrennung (separation of the Canton of Basel City from Basel Land), and both World Wars. These factors affected student attendance, funding, university-government relations. In 1833 the Canton of Basel split in two with the Federal Diet requiring that the canton's assets, including the books at the University library, be divided—two-thirds going to the new half canton of Basel-Landschaft. The city, Basel-Stadt, had to buy back this share and the university became so impoverished that it drastically reduced its course offerings. Students were expected to continue their education after two years or so at a German university.\n\nStudent enrollment surged after the University shed its medieval curriculum (including the elimination of Latin as the official language of the course catalog in 1822) and began to add more faculties, especially those in the humanities and sciences. Liberal Arts became a faculty in 1818, from which the Philosophy and History and Natural History faculties were derived in 1937. The University subsequently established the Faculty of Science (1937), the Faculty of Business and Economics (1996), and the Faculty of Psychology (2003). During the 20th century, the University grew rapidly, from one thousand students in 1918 to eight thousand in 1994. The first woman who was admitted to the University, Emilie Frey, began her medical studies in 1890.\n\nAfter the seizure of power in the year 1933 by the Nazis, numerous renowned German professors decided to emigrate to Basel and started to work at the University of Basel. Several Swiss scholars also returned, inter alia the Law Professor Arthur Baumgarten (1933), the Theologians Karl Barth (1935) and Fritz Lieb (1937) and after World War II the Philosopher Karl Jaspers from Heidelberg University (1948), as well as the surgeon Rudolf Nissen (1952).\n\nOn January 1, 1996, the University of Basel became independent from the cantonal government and thus earned its right to self-government. In 2007, the Canton of Basel-Landschaft voted in favor to share the sponsorship of the University in parity with the Canton Basel-Stadt.\n\nWell-respected rankings attest to the University of Basel’s international academic performance:\n\n\nSince January 1, 1996, the University of Basel has been independent. The University Law of 1995 stipulates that, “The University of Basel is an institution established under public law. It has its own legal personality and right to self-government.”\nAs the entity that formally receives the Performance Mandate (Leistungsauftrag) for the University from both supporting cantons, the University Council (Universitätsrat) is the supreme decision-making body of the University. The Council consists of eleven voting members and three non-voting members, including the President, the Executive Director, and the Secretary of the Council.\nBeneath the University Council are the Senate (Regenz) and the President’s Board. The 80-member Senate consists of the senior members of the President’s Board, faculty deans, professors, lecturers and research assistants, assistants, students, and administrative and technical employees.\nThe President’s Office is tasked with leading the overall university business. It consists of the President and her staff, a General Secretariat, an Administrative Directorate, the Communications and Marketing Office, and two respective Vice-Presidents for Research and Education. \n\nThe University of Basel currently houses seven faculties:\n\n\n\n\nThe University is counted among the country's leading institutions of higher learning and thus boasts a large number of politicians, scientists and thinkers as professors and alumni from all around the world alike:\n\nThe University hosts several formal institutions that are intended to serve the needs of its students. The Student Advice Center provides advice on academic degree programs and career opportunities. The Student Administration Office provides information on applications, grants, mobility, exchanges, and disability services.\n\nThere are also a variety of organizations that cater to international students, such as local chapters of Toastmasters and AIESEC, and associations that perform community services (Beraber, for instance, provides remedial lessons to immigrant youth). There is a foreign affairs association (Foraus), a Model United Nations team, and various choirs and orchestras. There are also various religious groups.\n\nA number of other student groups exist out of formal venues. The most recognizable are the “Studentenverbindungen,” traditional student associations dating from the 19th century that organize social events, share common uniforms, and often focus on particular hobbies, such as sword fighting. Such associations include the Akademische Turnerschaft Alemannia zu Basel, AKW Raurica, Helvetia Basel, Jurassia Basiliensis, Schwizerhüsli, A.V. Froburger, and Zofingia. Membership in many is restricted to men, though A.V. Froburger also accepts women.\n\nUniversity Sports provides a gym, fitness classes, and sport and dance camps to students and employees of the University.\n\nThe Studentische Körperschaft der Universität Basel (skuba) speaks on behalf of the students and represents their needs and interests. It acts as an official student representative and has no political or religious affiliations.\n\nThe University has a general alumni association, AlumniBasel, as well as specific alumni associations for the Europainstitut, Medicine, Law, Business and Economics, Dentistry, and Nursing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38532630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38532630", "title": "Veterinary College Admission Test", "text": "Veterinary College Admission Test\n\nThe Veterinary College Admission Test often called the VCAT is a former Veterinary school admissions examination. Depending on the school, pre-veterinary students usually take the Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) or the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) for entrance to schools now.\n"}
{"id": "46910001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46910001", "title": "Vivian E. Browne", "text": "Vivian E. Browne\n\nVivian E. Browne (April 26, 1929–July 23, 1993) was an American artist. Born in Laurel, Florida, Browne was mostly known for her African-American protest paintings, and linking abstraction to nature. She has received multiple awards for her work, been an activist, professor and a founder of many galleries. According to her mother, Browne died at 64 from bladder cancer.\n\nVivian Browne was born in Laurel, Florida, on April 26, 1929. She spent most of her life in New York City and Kern County, California. She received her Bachelor of Science in 1950 from Hunter College, New York, NY and a Master of Fine Arts from Hunter College in 1959. She was invested in her travels across Europe and Africa, also studying at the University of Ibadan in Nigeria in 1972. Browne worked at Rutgers University in Newark from 1971 to 1992 as a Faculty member of the Arts and Sciences department while continuing as an artist in her own right with shows across the country. Her early painting career was fostered by a scholarship from the New School for Social Research, and a Huntington Hartford Foundation fellowship in 1964 and a fellowship with the MacDowell Colony.\n\nBrowne's work is housed in public and private collections all over the United States, primarily in New York and California. Most notably her work can be found in the collections of the Smithsonian with the Robert Blackburn (artist) printmaking workshop, MOMA, the Schomburg Center NYC, Chase Manhattan Bank the John Cotton Dana Library, the Hatch-Billops Collection, the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum, The New York Public Library and the Harry Belafonte & Rosa Parks private collections. Browne is included in the Center for the Women in the Arts and Humanities virtual exhibit at Rutgers University.\n\nMany of Browne's works, particularly those from the 1960s, showcase her dissatisfaction with the struggles of growing up as a disenfranchised black woman. \"Black art is political. If it's not political, it's not black art\". While she fought for equality, she was not optimistic about attitudes changing soon, and self categorized her look at art into two categories. \"When I am political, I am painting as a black or as a woman or both. Otherwise, I am just a member of the human race\". She taught the History of Black Art at Rutgers University, and served as chair of the department from 1975-1978. Browne contributed to, and served as an advisor to \".\" \n\nIn addition to serving as a professor and department chair at Rutgers, Browne was honored most notably for her political works showcasing her life as a black woman. She served as a Fulbright panelist in 1990, and spent much of her time in the 70s and 80s in exhibit curation and symposia. Her many experiences as a panelist include the 1971 NYC's Art Student's League's Symposium on Afro-American Art, the 1973, 1974 and 1976 National Conference of Artists and the NEA amongst others. She was also part of the Soho20 Chelsea, a Broome Street gallery. Additionally, she has been featured in over 80 group and solo exhibitions, including at the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) and the Orlando Gallery and the Black Art Festival in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\n\nVivian Browne was the recipient of multiple awards throughout her life.\n\n"}
{"id": "4834504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4834504", "title": "Xiaolian", "text": "Xiaolian\n\nXiaolian (; literally \"filial and incorrupt\"), was the standard of nominating civil officers started by Emperor Wu of Han in 134 BC. It lasted until its replacement by the imperial examination system during the Sui Dynasty. In Confucian philosophy, filial piety is a virtue of respect for one's parents and ancestors.\n\nUnder the advice of Dong Zhongshu, Emperor Wu ordered each district to recommend one filial and one incorrupt candidate for civil offices. Later the nomination became proportional. Emperor He of Han changed the proportion to one candidate for every 200,000 residents, and one for every 100,000 residents in ethnic minority regions. The nominator was also responsible if the nominee was charged with corruption, and could be punished if he refused to nominate qualified individuals.\n\nAfter the Han dynasty, high positions were usually nominated according to the Nine-rank system, so Xiaolian became increasingly unimportant. During the Tang dynasty, both systems were replaced by the imperial examination system.\n"}
