{"id": "2687164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2687164", "title": "Achilla Orru", "text": "Achilla Orru\n\nKing Achilla Rufino Orru Apaa-idomo was a Uganda-born blind musician whose primary instrument was the lukembé. His ethnic background was Karamojong.\n\nOrru came to Canada as a refugee in 1989. While studying international development at Dalhousie University in Halifax, he started a band, Baana Afrique, which he reformed with local musicians when he moved to Toronto after graduation in 1995.\n\nIn Toronto, Orru was also well known as a TTC subway musician, often playing at Bloor-Yonge subway station.\n\nOrru's 2004 album \"Dho-Mach\" (Sacred Gift) was nominated for the 2005 Juno Award for World Music Album of the Year.\n\nOrru died on February 4, 2013 at the age of 53.\n"}
{"id": "3696761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3696761", "title": "Anatoly Durov", "text": "Anatoly Durov\n\nAnatoly Anatolyevich Durov (sometimes spelled \"Durow\") () (1887–1928) was a renowned 20th century animal trainer. He was a member of the Durov family of performers who raised the quality and prestige of the Russian circus.\n\nAnatoly Anatolyevich's great-grandmother, Nadezhda Durova, was the first female officer in the Russian Army, who became a decorated soldier in the Russian cavalry during the Napoleonic wars. His mother, née Tereza Stadler, was a talented circus horse rider of German descent and owned the Bavarian Circus] Long and successful tours led her to make Russia her home. His father, Anatoly Durov, was born to an old noble family and broke with it to join a traveling troupe. Anatoly (Jr.) was a good acrobat, a magician, and a monologue reciter. Anatoly (Sr.) and Vladimir Durov were the first of the Durov clan to gain fame as circus entertainers.\n\nAnatoly (Jr.) made his circus debut in 1914 in the Nikitin brothers' circus in the city of Ryazan. His real fame came in the years following the Russian Revolution of 1917. The younger Anatoly Durov performed with a large and varied group of animals. His performance commentary was always biting and topical. He toured abroad in 1921. \n\nIn Serbia he performed in the city of Subotica in the variety show Alhambra; in the city of Zagreb in the Music Hall; in the city of Sarajevo in the Winter Garden. In November 1921, he signed a contract for performances in the cities of Graz and Vienna, Austria with the international circus Orpheus for 500,000 kronor plus travel expenses. \n\nIn 1922-1923 he toured throughout the Italy, performing in Rome, Milan, Padua (Padova), Genoa (Genova), Bari, Venice, Bologna, Treviso, Adria (Atria), and other places. \n\nAt the request of Queen Elena of Italy, Anatoly (Jr.) gave a private performance at the royal villa. His performing dog \"Petit\" lived in the queen's apartment for three days. Queen Elena granted Anatoly Durov Jun. a golden cigarette-case and a letter of thanks.\n\nAfter his tours across Europe and the United States, Anatoly Durov returned to Soviet Russia and founded an entertainment program that gained international recognition. In 1926 he settled in the city of Taganrog on Shevchenko street 111, where he founded \"The Taganrog Animal Theater of Anatoly Durov\".\n\nAnatoly Anatolyevich Durov died in 1928 in a hunting accident near Izhevsk. Anatoly Durov was interred at Taganrog Old Cemetery.\n\nHis nephews, Vladimir Grigorievich Durov (1909-1972) and Yury Vladimirovich Durov (1909-1971) continued in his footsteps. Both became People's Artists of the USSR. Currently the Durov Theater in Moscow is run by Tereza Durova (b. September 5, 1926), a niece.\n\n"}
{"id": "30886837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30886837", "title": "Andriy Parubiy", "text": "Andriy Parubiy\n\nAndriy Volodymyrovych Parubiy (; born 31 January 1971) is a Ukrainian politician who has been the Chairman of the Verkhovna Rada, the Ukrainian parliament, since 14 April 2016. He previously served as Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, appointed after leading the anti-government protests in the 2014 Ukrainian revolution, until his resignation on August 7, 2014.\n\nIn the years leading up to the Ukrainian independence in 1991 Parubiy was an independence activist and was arrested for organizing an unsanctioned rally in 1989. In 1991 he founded the Social-National Party of Ukraine together with Oleh Tyahnybok; the party combined radical nationalism and some neo-Nazi features (by its name and the \"Wolfsangel\"-like sign). In 1998–2004 Parubiy led the paramilitary organization of SNPU, the Patriot of Ukraine. Parubiy left these organizations in 2004.\n\nParubiy co-led the Orange Revolution in 2004. In the 2007 parliamentary elections he was voted into the Ukrainian parliament on an Our Ukraine–People's Self-Defense Bloc ticket. He then became a member of the deputy group that would later become For Ukraine!. Parubiy stayed with Our Ukraine and became a member of its political council.\n\nIn February 2010 Parubiy asked the European Parliament to reconsider its negative reaction to former Ukrainian President Victor Yushchenko's decision to award Stepan Bandera, the leader of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, the title of Hero of Ukraine.\n\nIn early February 2012 Parubiy left Our Ukraine because their \"views diverged\". In 2012 he was re-elected into parliament on the party list of \"Fatherland\".\n\nFrom December 2013 to February 2014 Parubiy was a commandant of Euromaidan. He was coordinator of the volunteer security corps for the mainstream protesters. He was then appointed Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. This appointment was approved by (then) new Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko on June 16, 2014.\n\nAs Secretary of the National Security and Defense Council, Parubiy oversaw the \"anti–terrorist\" operation against pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine.\nParubiy resigned as Secretary of the National Security and Defense Council on August 7, 2014. He declined to say why, stating \"I believe it is unacceptable to comment on my resignation in a time of war\", and he would \"continue to assist the front, primarily volunteer battalions\". President Poroshenko signed a decree confirming Parubiy's dismissal the same day. RT reported that local media were stating that Parubiy resigned after he was ordered to declare another ceasefire in the southeast of Ukraine, but refused to do so.\n\nIn September 2014 Parubiy became a founding member of his new party People's Front. At the Ukrainian elections of October 2014 he was re-elected as People's Deputy on the party list \"People's Front\". On 4 December he was elected as Deputy Chairman of the Verkhovna Rada.\n\nAfter the resignation of Volodymyr Groysman, on 14 April 2016 he was elected as Chairman of the Verkhovna Rada.\n\nDuring Parubiy's parliamentary visits to France and the United Kingdom in June 2018, his \"neo-Nazi\" nationalist views were condemned by leftists such as Jean-Luc Mélenchon, Alexis Corbière, the French Communist Party and the Labour Party member of the Scottish Parliament, Neil Findlay. Findlay called for an inquiry into Parubiy's visit to the Scottish Parliament.\n"}
{"id": "79411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79411", "title": "Apemosyne", "text": "Apemosyne\n\nIn Greek mythology, Apemosyne (Ancient Greek: Ἀπημοσύνη) was a daughter of Catreus, the son of Minos, and king of Crete. She had a brother Althaemenes, and two sisters Aerope and Clymene.\n\nApemosyne is mentioned in the account of Apollodorus. According to Apollodorus, Catreus received an oracle saying that he would be killed by one of his children, and although Catreus hid the oracles, his son Althaemenes found out. Fearing that \"he\" would be the one to kill Catreus, Althaemenes took Apemosyne and fled with her to Rhodes.\n\nThere, Hermes fell in love with Apemosyne, but Apemosyne fled from him. Hermes could not catch her, because she ran faster than him. On her way back from a spring, Apemosyne slipped on freshly skinned hides that Hermes had laid across her path. Hermes then caught and raped her. Later, when Apemosyne told her brother what had happened, he became angry, thinking that she was lying about being molested by the god. In his anger, he kicked her to death.\n\nCook, saw in the myth of Apemosyne an historical element reflecting the relationship between Minoan Crete and Rhodes, as well as a possible etiological aspect explaining an ancient Rhodian custom involving human sacrifice.\n\n"}
{"id": "1121429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1121429", "title": "Avram Iancu", "text": "Avram Iancu\n\nAvram Iancu (; 1824 – September 10, 1872) was a Transylvanian Romanian lawyer who played an important role in the local chapter of the Austrian Empire Revolutions of 1848–1849. He was especially active in the Țara Moților region and the Apuseni Mountains. The rallying of peasants around him, as well as the allegiance he paid to the Habsburg got him the moniker \"Crăișorul Munților\" (\"The Little Prince of the Mountains\").\n\nAvram Iancu was born in Vidra de Sus (currently Avram Iancu, Alba County), Transylvania, then part of the Austrian Empire into a family of peasants that had been emancipated from serfdom. His father was Alisandru Iancu (1787-1855) and his mother was Maria Gligor. He had one elder brother, Ion (born 1822), who became a priest.\n\nAvram Iancu's grandfather was Gheorghe Iancu (deceased before 1812), who had seven children (four girls and three boys): girls - Sântioana, Maria, Zamfira and Ana; boys - Alisandru (the father), Avram and Ioan.\n\nLittle is known today about Avram Iancu's childhood. It is known, by local tradition, that he had a typical moț character, joyful and witty and he played well the leaf, alphorn, flute and violin.\n\nAvram Iancu attended primary school in his village, in the \"Târsa\" hamlet. His teacher was Mihai Gomboș. After a while, he was sent by his parents at the school in Neagra (now Poiana Vadului) village. Further, he attended the school from Câmpeni, Alba county, his teacher being Mihai Ioanette. He graduated the Câmpeni school at age 13.\n\nAfter this, he went to school in Zlatna, where he studied in a Hungarian school, in the Latin language, as Romanian schools didn't exist in this area. His teachers were Iozephus Stanken (1837-1838), Gregorius Iakabus (1838-1839) and Ludovicus Kovács (1839-1840 and 1840-1841). He graduated at age 17.\n\nHe studied humanities from 1841, in the Piarist College of Cluj, graduating law school.\n\nAvram Iancu became a law clerk in Târgu Mureș, and it was there that he learned about the events of March 1848 of Vienna and Pest. His attitude at the time showed the nature of the conflict that was to engulf Transylvania: while Iancu welcomed the transition, he was indignant at the fact that Hungarian revolutionaries (many of whom were landowners) refused to debate the abolition of serfdom (which at the time was the state of the larger part of the Romanian population in Transylvania).\n\nIn the Apuseni mountains, he started rallying peasants in Câmpeni. The protests he organized were recognized as peaceful by the authorities, but nevertheless worried them. Iancu and his associate Ioan Buteanu quickly became the main figures of the Romanian-led actions in the area, especially after they took part in the Blaj Assemblies starting in April, where over 40,000 Romanians met to protest against Transylvania becoming a part of Hungary. In Blaj (formerly known as \"Balázsfalva/Blasendorf\") both opted for the main, radical wing of the movement. Centered on Alexandru Papiu Ilarian, the group opposed the Hungarian revolutionary option of uniting Transylvania and Hungary. It got into conflict with the minority wing around Greek-Catholic Bishop Ioan Lemeni, one which chose not to boycott the elections for the Hungarian Parliament.\n\nWhile the union was carried of on May 30, 1848, the majority of Romanian activists looked towards Vienna and Emperor Ferdinand, sharing the cause of the Transylvanian Saxons. Things became heated after July 11, when Hungary declared its independence. Austria started to open itself to the Romanian demands, while bloody conflicts ensued between the Hungarian nobles and their Romanian serfs. The last Assembly in Blaj saw the Habsburg governor, Anton Freiherr von Puchner, approve of the arming of National Guards for Romanians and Saxons. On September 27, the lynching of Austrian plenipotentiary Count Lemberg by a Pest crowd cut off any dialogue between the two centers. The new Emperor Franz Joseph and the Austrian government granted the Romanians numerous liberties and rights; although Lajos Kossuth's government abolished serfdom, this was no longer a match for the Imperial offer.\n\nThe Austrians clearly rejected the October demand that the ethnical criteria become the basis for internal borders, with the goal of creating a province for Romanians (Transylvania grouped alongside Banat and Bukovina), as they did not want to replace the threat of Hungarian nationalism with the potential of Romanian separatism. Yet they did not declare themselves hostile to the rapid creation of Romanian administrative offices within Transylvania.\n\nThe territory was organized in \"prefecturi\" (\"prefectures\"), with Avram Iancu and Buteanu as two prefects in the Apuseni. Iancu's prefecture, the \"Auraria Gemina\" (a name charged with Latin symbolism), became the most important one as it took over from bordering areas that were never really fully organized.\n\nIn the same month, the administrative efforts were put to a halt, as Hungarians under Józef Bem carried out a sweeping offensive through Transylvania. With the discreet assistance of Imperial Russian troops, the Austrian army (except for the garrisons at Alba Iulia and Deva) and the Austrian-Romanian administration retreated to Wallachia and Wallachian Oltenia (both were, at the time, under Russia's occupation).\n\nOn 8 November, Avram Iancu, along with his 4,000 combatants of the \"Auraria Gemina\" Legion took part in joint military actions with Austrian forces. The Legion reached Turda, and the city surrendered without a fight on 20 November. Then, he and his troops returned to the mountains. On 29 November, Avram Iancu had another 1,500 troops mobilized for action. On 4 December, he reached Săcuieu, and on 6-7 December, he and his men were ordered to attack the enemy lines by surprise. However, the attack failed, due to the incompetence of an Austrian officer, and the Romanians were forced to withdraw by 10 December. By early January 1849, Transylvania was almost entirely conquered by the Hungarian Army. The Romanian fighters holding out in their mountains stronghold were running low of supplies, having only 800 rifles to arm a few thousand men, and were completely surrounded by Hungarian troops by the end of March.\n\nIn April 1849, Iancu was approached by the Hungarian envoy Ioan Dragoş (in fact, a Romanian deputy in the Hungarian Parliament).\nDragoș appeared to have been acting out of his own desire for peace, since Iancu's troops were tying down too many Hungarian troops, about 10,000, a third of the Hungarian Army in Transylvania, according to Hungarian general János Czecz. He worked hard to get the Romanian leaders to meet him in Abrud and listen to the Hungarian demands. Iancu's direct adversary, Hungarian commander Imre Hatvany, seems to have taken profit on the provisional armistice to attack the Romanians in Abrud. He did not, however, benefit from a surprise, as Iancu and his men retreated and then encircled him. In the meanwhile, Dragoș was lynched by the Abrud crowds, in the belief that he was part of Hatvany's ruse.\n\nHatvany also angered the Romanians by having Buteanu captured and murdered. While his position became weaker, he was permanently attacked by Iancu's men, until the major defeat of May 22. Hatvany and most of his armed group were massacred by their adversaries, as Iancu captured their cannons, switching the tactical advantage for the next months. Hatvany's troops lost 5,000 soldiers and all of their artillery. Kossuth was angered by Hatvany's gesture (an inspection of the time dismissed all of Hatvany's close collaborators), especially since it made future negotiations unlikely.\n\nOn 8 June, the Romanian stronghold in the mountains was attacked by the largest Hungarian force yet: 4,000 men supported by 19 cannons led by General Kemeny Farkas. The battle lasted between 11 and 17 June and ended in a crushing victory for the Romanians, the Hungarians having at least 500 troops killed during the battle.\n\nThe Russian intervention in June precipitated events, especially since Poles fighting in the Hungarian revolutionary contingents wanted to see an all-out resistance to the Tsarist armies. People like Henryk Dembiński mediated for an understanding between Kossuth and the Wallachian émigré revolutionaries. The latter, understandably close to Avram Iancu (especially Nicolae Bălcescu, Gheorghe Magheru, Alexandru G. Golescu, and Ion Ghica) were also keen to inflict a defeat on the Russian armies that had crushed their movement in September 1848. Fighting also continued in July, during the peace negotiations, on 2, 4, and 22 July, all Hungarian attacks being repulsed yet again. Finally, the conflict ended on 29 July, as Avram Iancu offered a guarantee to the Hungarian troops that he would not attack them, allowing them to withdraw in front of the Austro-Russian offensive.\n\nBălcescu and Kossuth met in May 1849, in Debrecen. The contact has for long been celebrated by Romanian Marxist historians and politicians: Karl Marx's condemnation of everything opposing Kossuth had led to any Romanian initiative being automatically considered \"\"reactionary\". In fact, it appears that the agreement was in no way a pact: Kossuth meant to flatter the Wallachians, by getting them to champion the idea of Iancu's armies leaving Transylvania for good, in order to help Bălcescu in Bucharest. While agreeing to mediate for peace, Bălcescu never presented these terms to the fighters in the Apuseni. His personal documents (commented by Liviu Maior) show that the un-realistic assumptions of Kossuth had made him view the Hungarian leader as a \"demagogue\"\".\n\nEven more contradictory, the only thing Avram Iancu agreed to (and which no party had asked for) was his forces' \"neutrality\" in the conflict between Russia and Hungary. Thus, he secured his position as the Hungarian armies suffered defeats in July, culminating in the Battle of Segesvár (Sighişoara), and then the capitulation of August 13.\n\nAvram Iancu agreed to disarm as soon as the Austrians took over, and wrote a detailed report to the new governor of Transylvania, General Ludwig von Wohlgemuth (in 1850). In order to avoid suspicion of Romanian separatism, the document does not mention the contacts with the Wallachians. As the Austrians granted the abolition of serfdom, they also forbade all representative institutions in Transylvania. While Hungarian nationalism was slowly fitting in the pattern that would make the \"Ausgleich\" acceptable for both sides involved, the Romanian option raised more and more irritation. The revolutionary zeal it had found under Iancu, although profiting the Monarchy, could also prove to be a weapon used for very different goals (the Austrians were especially fearful that the Eastern Orthodox faith of the Romanians would accommodate itself with Pan-Slavism, completing the gap between Serbia and the Russian Empire).\n\nIt is very possible that Iancu was not able to properly observe the new status quo. While decision for his initial arrest (in December 1849) was quickly overturned after local protests (and explained as an abuse), he was censored throughout his life, had his library confiscated, and was placed under surveillance. He was even arrested a second time, in 1852, after it was presumed that his presence alone served to inflame local sentiments. Local traditions hold that the emperor Franz Joseph was visiting Transylvania and on July 21st, 1852 he was in the Apuseni Mountains area, purportedly to attend The Maidens' Fair on Găina Mountain but also hoping that Iancu would agree to meet him. Allegedly, Iancu refused, uttering his famous line \"It's all for naught, a madman and a liar can't by any means come to understand each other\". Soon after his release, Iancu visited Vienna and attempted to petition the Emperor. He was prevented to do so by the police, a public humiliation which provoked a nervous breakdown from which he never recovered. He spent the rest of his life as a half-mad vagrant, traveling the Apuseni, living out of whatever alms that the impoverished moți population could spare for him, singing sad Romanian doina songs on his flute.\nAvram Iancu died on September 10, 1872 at Baia de Criș. His body was buried, according to his wish, under Horea's tree in Țebea (by tradition, the place where the Revolt of Horea, Cloșca and Crișan had started).\n\nAvram Iancu was officially declared as a \"Hero of the Romanian Nation\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47512564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47512564", "title": "Badri Roysam", "text": "Badri Roysam\n\nBadrinath \"Badri\" Roysam (born 1961) is an Indian-American professor and researcher. He is the current chairman of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Houston Cullen College of Engineering. Dr. Roysam is notable as the creator of the FARSIGHT project, which is a collaborative effort to create an open source software toolkit to analyze multidimensional images. Roysam's work as a researcher focuses on cancer immunotherapy and neuroscience.\n\nIn addition to interdisciplinary collaborations such as FARSIGHT, Dr. Roysam is also a proponent of the Electrical Power Analytics Consortium, which aims to improve the state of the power grid in the hurricane-prone Houston area.\n\nRoysam received his Bachelor of Technology degree from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in 1984. He then went on to earn his master's degree from Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri in 1987, and his Doctor of Science degree from the same institution in 1989.\n\nRoysam began his career at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York in 1989, where he was a professor of electrical and computer engineering. Here, he became director of the Rensselaer branch of the Center for Subsurface Imaging and Sensing Systems (CenSISS) from 2001 until his departure in 2010. CenSISS is a multi-institution and multidisciplinary NSF funded center. In 2006, it was endowed by the Bernard Marshall Gordon foundation and renamed the Bernard Marshall Gordon Center for Subsurface Imaging and Sensing Systems (Gordon-CenSISS).\n\nRoysam initiated the development of FARSIGHT while at RPI, with the intention of developing an interdisciplinary resource for imaging tools. The development of the FARSIGHT project triggered interest, and subsequently funding, from federal institutions such as DARPA and the NIH. The success of FARSIGHT also led to industry collaborations, such as with Kitware, a local New York City company founded by an RPI alumnus.\n\nIn 2010, Roysam left RPI for the University of Houston, becoming the Hugh Roy and Lillie Cranz Cullen endowed professor, as well as an administrative role as the chairman of the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department. Here he continued his work with FARSIGHT, and was part of the collaborative effort to develop a tool for the analysis of high dimensional data (STrenD). In recent years, Roysam has been recognized for his research in cancer immunotherapy using bioinformatics. Working in partnership with M.D. Anderson Cancer Center and the Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Department of the University of Houston, Roysam and his colleagues have developed software that can single out cancer cells and profile their interactions on a cell-to-cell level. This allows close study of immune system cells and how they can be used to neutralize cancer cells.\n\n"}
{"id": "1008244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1008244", "title": "Benno Adam", "text": "Benno Adam\n\nBenno Rafael Adam (15 July 1812, Munich - 8 March 1892, Kelheim) was a German animal painter.\n\nHe was the eldest son of the painter Albrecht Adam, and distinguished himself especially by his depictions of game animals, hunting dogs and pets in larger compositions (deer and boar hunting, fox baiting, etc.) He was associated with the Chiemsee artists' colony.\n\nIn addition to his paintings, he illustrated several textbooks and manuals, including \"Anleitung zur Rindviehzucht und zur verschiedenartigen Benutzung des Hornviehs\" (Guide to Beef Cattle Breeding and the Diverse Use of Horned Cattle) by Heinrich Wilhelm von Pabst, J. G. Cotta, Stuttgart (1851).\n\nIn the summer of 1834, he married Josepha Quaglio, the eldest daughter of the painter and architect Domenico Quaglio. Their son Emil Adam also became a painter. Benno Adam's brothers were the painters Franz and Eugen Adam.\n"}
{"id": "17931032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17931032", "title": "Brent Barraclough", "text": "Brent Barraclough\n\nBrent Barraclough is a classical pianist and film producer who was born in Canada in 1962 and is of British Citizenship. He studied piano at the Juilliard School (New York) and McGill University (Montreal). His principal piano teachers were Ruth Laredo, \"America's First Lady of the Piano\" and Thomas C. Plaunt. He also studied business and philosophy at New York University, University of Toronto, and Sauder School of Business (University of British Columbia).\n\nHe is known for his work as actor and producer in both \"The French Guy\" and \"2 Days Later with Jools Holland\". He was a national Director of The Drake Music Project and Chief Executive of \"Live Music Now!\" in London, England. He was also host of the Shaw Cable TV show \"Noteworthy\" in the early 1980s.\n\nHe was elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts (U.K.) in 2001. The RSA is a prestigious society that includes among its former members Benjamin Franklin, Charles Dickens and John Diefenbaker.\n\nHe is a member of The American Bach Society.\n\nIn 2012 he served on the Hnatyshyn Foundation Piano Jury with Anton Kuerti and Louise Bissette.\n\nHis official website is: http://www.brentbarraclough.com/\n"}
{"id": "5041218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5041218", "title": "Cai E", "text": "Cai E\n\nCai E (; 18 December 1882 – 8 November 1916) was a Chinese revolutionary leader and warlord. He was born Cai Genyin () in Shaoyang, Hunan, and his courtesy name was Songpo (). Cai eventually became an influential warlord in Yunnan, and is best known for his role in challenging the imperial ambitions of Yuan Shikai.\n\nCai's name has also been romanised as Tsai Ao.\n\nCai studied at the prestigious and progressive \"Shiwu Xuetang\" (School of Current Affairs), where he was taught by Liang Qichao and Tang Caichang, and went to Japan to study in 1899. Cai returned to China in 1900, when he was only 18, and attempted to take part in an uprising against the Qing Dynasty as part of the Self-Support Army, a revolutionary militia led by Tang Caichang. When the rebellion failed, Cai returned to Japan. During this second sojourn in Japan he received military training at the Tokyo Shimbu Gakko, followed by the Imperial Japanese Army Academy.\n\nHe returned to Guangxi Province, where he held several military posts and established a military training academy from 1904-10. While in Guangxi he joined the Tongmenghui, a Chinese revolutionary organization dedicated to the overthrow of the Qing dynasty. In 1910 he was transferred to Yunnan Province to command the 37th Brigade of the New Army and teach at the Yunnan Military Academy in Kunming. One of his pupils at the school was Zhu De, who began studying there in 1909 and graduated in 1912.\n\nShortly after the Xinhai Revolution began on 10 October 1911, Cai, leading the 37th Brigade, successfully occupied Yunnan. After the revolution he served as Commander-in-Chief of the Military Government of Yunnan.\n\nCai E was Governor of Yunnan from 1911-13. After the revolution Cai gained a reputation as a strong supporter of democracy and of Kuomintang politician Song Jiaoren. Following Song's assassination by Yuan Shikai, and Yuan's subsequent assumption of the presidency of the Republic of China, Yuan had Cai removed from office and eventually held under house arrest in Beijing. Tang Jiyao replaced Cai E as Military Governor of Yunnan in 1913.\n\nIn 1915 Yuan Shikai announced his plans to dissolve the Republic and proclaim himself the emperor of a new dynasty. After hearing of his intentions, Cai escaped detention on 11 November, first returning to Japan and then to Yunnan. After returning to Yunnan, Cai established the local National Protection Army to resist Yuan and defend the Republic.\n\nOn 12 December Yuan formally \"accepted\" a petition to become emperor, and protests spread throughout China. On 23 December Cai sent a telegram to Beijing threatening to declare independence if Yuan did not cancel his plans within two days. When Yuan did not respond favorably, Cai declared independence on 25 December and made plans to invade Sichuan. The governor of Guizhou joined Cai in rebellion, declaring independence on 27 December. Yuan had himself inaugurated as emperor on 1 January 1916, and Cai successfully occupied Sichuan later that month.\n\nYuan sent two leading military commanders from northern China to attack Cai, but although the forces sent by Yuan outnumbered Cai's army, Yuan's commanders were either unwilling or unable to defeat him. When it became clear that Cai's rebellion would be successful, many other provinces joined him in resisting Yuan. Guangxi and Shandong declared independence in March, Guangdong and Zhejiang in April and Shaanxi, Sichuan and Hunan in May. With several provinces behind them, the revolutionaries successfully forced Yuan to abandon monarchism on 20 March 1916.\n\nAfter Yuan died on 6 June 1916, Cai held the positions of Governor-General and Governor of Sichuan. He left for Japan for medical treatment at Kyushu Imperial University in Fukuoka for tuberculosis later in 1916, but died shortly after his arrival. He was accorded a state funeral in China at Yuelu Mountain in Hunan on 12 April 1917.\n\nMany of the warlords who served under Yuan Shikai did not support his ambition to revive the monarchy, and Cai E was one of the leading figures who successfully forced Yuan to step down. He served as an inspiration for the young Zhu De, who later became one of the most successful military leaders of the Chinese Red Army, the forerunner to the People's Liberation Army.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1015355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1015355", "title": "Courtney Brown (researcher)", "text": "Courtney Brown (researcher)\n\nCourtney Brown (born 1952) is an associate professor in the political science department at Emory University and is known for promoting the use of nonlinear mathematics in social scientific research. He is also known as a proponent of remote viewing, a form of extrasensory perception.\n\nBrown's research in applied mathematics is mostly focused on social science applications of time-dependent models. He has published five peer-reviewed books and numerous articles in applied mathematics. Brown is also a very visible advocate of the use of the R Programming Language, both for statistical as well as nonlinear modeling applications in the social sciences.\n\nBrown learned the basic Transcendental Meditation and an advanced technique called the TM-Sidhi program in 1991. He claims to have engaged in \"yogic flying\" at the Golden Dome of Pure Knowledge at Maharishi University of Management in Fairfield, Iowa in 1992, though there is no empirical evidence that such a thing is possible.\n\nThe field of remote viewing is exceptionally controversial. Brown's remote viewing findings have been dismissed by scientists, such as his colleague at Emory University Scott O. Lilienfeld, who has claimed that Brown has refused to subject his ideas and his claimed psychic powers to independent scientific testing on what Lilienfeld describes as \"curious\" grounds. This claim is based on a request that Brown show up in an Emory classroom to remote view something. Brown refused saying that he does not do anything related to remote viewing at Emory. Brown is not restricted in listing his affiliation with Emory when talking about remote viewing or any other subject, something that has been incorrectly reported elsewhere. He normally acts as a data analyst while working with other remote viewers (who do the actual viewing) who have been trained in procedures that were developed by the U.S. military.\n\nAmong a variety of controversial topics, Brown has claimed to apply remote viewing to the study of multiple realities, the nonlinearity of time, planetary phenomena, extraterrestrial life, UFOs, Atlantis, and even Jesus Christ. According to Michael Shermer \"The claims in Brown's two books are nothing short of spectacularly weird. Through his numerous SRV sessions he says he has spoken with Jesus and Buddha (both, apparently, are advanced aliens), visited other inhabited planets, time traveled to Mars back when it was fully inhabited by intelligent ETs, and has even determined that aliens are living among us—one group in particular resides underground in New Mexico.\"\n\nRobert Baker writing in the \"Skeptical Inquirer\" came to the conclusion that Brown's beliefs from remote viewing about alien civilizations is a case of self-deception.\n\nAround May 2017, the CIA officially shared publicly, the results of several experiments on remote viewing, confirming the use and development of these techniques by the intelligence of U.S. military, also included the step by step instructions for perfection of remote viewing technique., when prompted the officers in charge of this release, they limited their answer, by just saying; \"It is time...\", thus supporting the statements from Brown.\n\n"}
{"id": "244943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=244943", "title": "David Ahenakew", "text": "David Ahenakew\n\nDavid Ahenakew (July 28, 1933 – March 12, 2010) was a Canadian First Nations (Cree) politician, and former National Chief of the Assembly of First Nations.\n\nAhenakew was born at the Sandy Lake Indian Reserve in Saskatchewan. He and his wife, Grace Ahenakew, had five children.\n\nAhenakew served in the Canadian Forces from 1951 to 1967, during which time he was stationed in Germany, Korea (during the Korean War), and Egypt.\n\nIn 1967, upon leaving the army, Ahenakew accepted a position with the Saskatchewan government, and became active in the Federation of Saskatchewan Indian Nations (FSIN). He was elected to the position of FSIN president in 1968. He stated that his military experience heavily influenced his choice to pursue politics: \"I could see that what was happening to our people was the same kind of exploitation and degradation I had seen in Korea and Egypt.\"\n\nDuring his time as FSIN president he released a report entitled \"Indian Education in Saskatchewan,\" and played a role in the founding of the Saskatchewan Indian Cultural College and the Saskatchewan Indian Federated College in 1972.\n\nAhenakew received the Order of Canada in the degree of Member in 1978. His citation read: \"Member of a United Nations committee and of the World Indigenous Peoples Council. His many years of service to Indians and Métis in Saskatchewan culminated in his election as Chief of the Federation of Saskatchewan Indians, which has revolutionized Indian education in his province.\" He was stripped of the Order of Canada in 2005 after making controversial remarks about the Holocaust.\n\nIn 1982, he was elected Chief of the Assembly of First Nations, a national representative body for Canadian aboriginals.\n\nOn December 13, 2002, Ahenakew gave a speech to an FSIN group, which was attended by James Parker, a reporter from the \"Saskatoon StarPhoenix\". He made references to \"goddamn immigrants\" in Canada during his speech. During a question-and-answer session following his lecture, Ahenakew said that Jews were a disease in Germany and that Hitler was trying to \"clean up Europe\" when he \"fried six million of those guys.\" He also stated that Israel and the United States (specifically mentioning George W. Bush) were going to start the next world war.\n\nThe Germans used to tell me, and I got to know them well because I played soccer against them and with them and so forth. But they used to tell me that you guys are blessed. What we know about the Indians in Canada. They are blessed. But that blessing is being destroyed by your immigrants that are going over there. Especially the Jews, they said. The Second World War was started by the Jews and the Third World War, whatever it is, is between Israel and the Arab countries. I was there as well. But there's going to be a war because the Israelis and the \"Bushies\" – you know, the bully, the bigot in the United States – tells you that if you're not with me you're against me.\n\nAfter the session concluded, the \"StarPhoenix\" reporter asked him to clarify these remarks, and he explained that while serving in the army after the war, Germans had told him the Jews had provoked the war. The \"StarPhoenix\" quoted him as further saying:\n\nThe Jews damn near owned all of Germany prior to the war. That's why Hitler came in. He was going to make damn sure that the Jews didn't take over Germany, or even Europe. That's why he fried six million of those guys, you know. Jews would have owned the goddamned world. And look what they're doing now, they're killing people in Arab countries.\n\nThe reporter asked how Ahenakew could justify the Holocaust. The \"StarPhoenix\" quoted Ahenakew as replying:\n\nHow else do you get rid of a disease like that, that's going to take over, that's going to dominate?\n\nThe comments were first circulated in the Canadian national media several days later, and were quickly condemned as antisemitic by Jewish groups, aboriginal leaders and Canadian politicians alike. Both Perry Bellgarde, president of FSIN, and Matthew Coon Come, AFN national chief, were quick to distance themselves from Ahenakew's comments.\n\nIn June 2003, Ahenakew was formally charged by the Saskatchewan Justice Department with promoting hatred.\n\nIn an interview in the July/August 2003 edition of \"This Magazine\", Ahenakew expressed to reporter Alex Roslin his dissatisfaction with what he called \"racial control\" of the media, saying that \"when a group of people, a race of people, control the world media, something has to be done about it.\" The article also quotes claims that Ahenakew had long held racist beliefs against Jews, Blacks and other ethnic groups that had been shielded from the public.\n\nIn connection with the remarks from 2002, which were recorded on tape with his knowledge, Ahenakew was later convicted in July 2005 of willfully promoting hatred against Jews. Ahenakew apologized for the remarks, saying they did not represent his beliefs and that he was \"caught up in the heat of the moment. I was attempting to spark debate on what has been happening to our First Nations people.\" At his trial, he later recanted his apology and blamed his outburst on his diabetes, some wine and a change in medication, a defense that was rejected by the court and he was subsequently fined $1,000. Despite this, he retained his belief that the Jews started the Second World War. Jewish groups, aboriginals and politicians later called for Ahenakew's membership in the Order of Canada to be revoked. The Governor General revoked Ahenakew's membership shortly after his trial.\n\nIn June 2006, the decision was overturned by the Saskatchewan Court of Queen's Bench on the grounds that the trial judge failed to properly take into account that the remarks were uttered in the midst of an angry confrontation with a reporter, and therefore may not have constituted a \"willful\" promotion of hatred. A new trial was ordered.\n\nAhenakew was retried in Saskatoon in 2008. In February 2009, Saskatchewan Provincial Court Judge Wilfred Tucker acquitted Ahenakew because his statements, while \"revolting, disgusting and untrue\" did not show an intent to incite hatred.\n\nFollowing a long battle with cancer, Ahenakew died on March 12, 2010 at a hospital in Shellbrook, Saskatchewan, aged 76.\n\n"}
{"id": "17229496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17229496", "title": "Dominic Dim Deng", "text": "Dominic Dim Deng\n\nDominic Dim Deng (1 March 1950 – 2 May 2008) was a senior member of the Sudan People's Liberation Army, a distinguished military veteran General and the first Defence Minister in the Government of Southern Sudan who lost his life alongside his wife Madam Josephine Apieu Jenaro Aken, senior politician Dr. Justin Yac Arop and 18 other Sudan People's Liberation Army and Government of Southern Sudan officials on a leased CEM Air Beechcraft 1900 that crashed 375 km west of Juba, Sudan on May 2, 2008.\n\nDominic Dim, a member of the Dinka group from the Bahr el Ghazal region was born in a remote village called Adol in Twic County, Warrap State, Southern Sudan. In 1962, he attended Nyarkach Primary School. He completed his primary education at Nyarkach and joined Kuajok Intermediate School in 1964.\n\nIn 1966 at the age of only sixteen Dim joined the rebels of Southern Sudan in the First Sudanese Civil War. A peace agreement was signed in 1972 between the rebels and the Government of Sudan, known as the Addis Ababa Agreement, as part of the agreement Dim was absorbed in the Sudanese National Army (SNA) with a rank of 1st Lt.\n\nWhile he was on active duty in the SNA, Dim underwent several military courses. He passed all of the courses top of his batch as a result he was able to make rapid and regular promotions at different ranks in the Sudan National Army. With a new war brewing in the South, Dim eventually decided to leave the Sudan National Army with a rank of Col. and join SPLM/A in 1987.\n\nHis first assignment was Deputy Commander for Northern Zone (Bahr el Ghazal) which was commanded by the President of Southern Sudan Salva Kiir Mayardit. Two years later, he was promoted to Commander and assigned to Central Zone (Bor, Jonglei), where he defeated Saif El Hobuor. Cdr Diim was wounded in this operation and was given permission to travel to London for medical treatment in 1991/1992.\n\nWhile on medical leave in London, United Kingdom, Dim obtained BA Honorary degree in Business Administration in 1998.\n\nIn 2004 Dim was appointed as member of National Liberation Council, the highest political organ of the SPLM/A. In 2005, Dim became commander of Special Reserved Forces (Sudan People's Liberation Army) and nominated by Twic Mayardit Community as member of the South Sudan Legislative Assembly, a position he served until his death.\n\nIn 2005, when Sudan's Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) was signed all the SPLA ranks were converted to be similar to that of Sudan Armed Forces (SAF) ranks. Dim was promoted to the rank of Lt. General. In 2006 Lt. Gen. Dim was sent to South Africa for military leadership course, part of a programme initiated by the South African Government, for SPLM/A senior staff.\n\nIn 2007 he became the first political officer of the Sudan People's Liberation Army when he was appointed as the first Minister for SPLA Affairs in the Government of Southern Sudan. He was also locally elected as the Chairperson of Warrap State Communities.\n\nDim is buried alongside his wife at the Sudan People's Liberation Army Headquarters in Juba.\n\nDim was married to Josephine Apieu Jenaro Aken whom he met at Pannyok School where her father Jenario Aken was a teacher. They were married in 1973.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14642043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14642043", "title": "Dominique Monet", "text": "Dominique Monet\n\nDominique Monet, QC (January 2, 1865 – February 6, 1923) was a Canadian lawyer, politician, and judge.\n\nBorn in St-Michel de Napierville, Canada East, the son of Dominique Monet, Monet was educated at L'Assomption College and received an LL.D. from Laval University in 1889. He was called to the Quebec Bar in 1889 and was created a Queen's Counsel in 1899. He practiced law in Saint-Rémi, Montreal and Saint-Jean. He was first elected to the House of Commons of Canada for the electoral district of Napierville in the 1891 federal election. A Liberal, he was re-elected in the 1896 and 1900 election for the electoral district of Laprairie—Napierville.\n\nIn 1904, he was elected as the Liberal candidate to the Legislative Assembly of Quebec for the electoral district of Napierville. In February 1905, he was made a Minister Without Portfolio in the cabinet of Simon-Napoléon Parent and soon after was appointed Minister of Colonization and Public Works for a brief time. In October 1905, he was appointed Protonotary for the district of Montreal. In 1908, he was made a judge of the Superior Court for the district of d'Iberville.\n\nHe died while at sea near San Juan, Puerto Rico on February 6, 1923. He was buried in Saint-Jean.\n\n"}
{"id": "40512391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40512391", "title": "Early life and career of Ulysses S. Grant", "text": "Early life and career of Ulysses S. Grant\n\nThe early life and career of Ulysses S. Grant (born Hiram Ulysses Grant; April 27, 1822 – July 23, 1885) tells the story of the future general's ancestry, birth, and early career in and out of the United States army from 1822 to 1861. Grant was born in Ohio in 1822. Grant was educated in both private and public schools or academies and was later known to be an avid reader. Grant was raised a Methodist, but uncommon for his times, he was not baptized or forced to attend church by his parents. Growing up in a middle-class family, supported by his father's tanneries, he sought a different career in the military. He was appointed to West Point by Ohio Congressman Thomas L. Hamer. It was Hamer who had given Grant the name \"Ulysses S. Grant\" when Grant entered West Point as a plebe in 1839. After four years at West Point, he was stationed in Missouri, where he met his future wife, Julia Dent. In 1846, Grant served in the Mexican–American War, where he was brevetted for bravery. There he fought in Mexico and learned under two commanders, Zachary Taylor and Winfield Scott. Upon his return to the United States, he married Julia and started a family.\n\nAfter the war, Grant was assigned to posts in New York and Michigan before traveling West to a posting Fort Vancouver and at Fort Humboldt in present-day northern California. On his journey to California by ship, Grant compassionately aided victims of a cholera epidemic while traveling through Panama, arriving in San Francisco in 1853, during the California Gold Rush. Grant's tenure in the Pacific Northwest included the aftermath of the Cayuse War. Grant's various attempts at speculation ventures failed in his effort to support Julia and his family. While stationed at Fort Humboldt Grant became lonely and depressed and he began to drink. After accusations of drunkenness while on duty at Fort Humboldt, Grant was compelled to resign and returned to Missouri and his family. Six years of civilian life were difficult for Grant, as he had little aptitude for business or farming, and was devastated by the Panic of 1857. In 1859, the family moved again, to Galena, Illinois, where Grant had a job as a clerk in his father's leather shop. He worked there until 1861, when the American Civil War began.\n\nGrant was of English and Ulster Scots ancestry; his immigrant ancestor Mathew Grant arrived with Puritans from England in the 1630s. Grant's paternal grandmother Suzanna Delano, of French origin, was the granddaughter of Jonathan Delano (1647–1720), 7th child of Philippe de La Noye (1602–1681). Philippe was descended from the illustrious House of Lannoy, and was one of the \"Fortune\"'s passengers who landed at Plymouth in November 1621, joining the first settlers of the \"Mayflower\". The offspring of the paternal uncle of Suzanna, Thomas Delano (born 1704), gave a few decades later another president of the United States, Franklin D. Roosevelt.\n\nHiram Ulysses Grant was born in Point Pleasant, Ohio on April 27, 1822. Point Pleasant was located in the southwestern corner of Ohio near Cincinnati. His father Jesse Root Grant (1794–1873) was a self-reliant tanner and businessman, and his mother was Hannah (Simpson) Grant (1798–1883). Grant was Jesse's and Hannah's first child. Both Jessie and Hanna were natives of Pennsylvania. In the fall of 1823, the family moved to the village of Georgetown in Brown County, Ohio.\n\nAt the age of five, young Grant began his formal education, starting at a subscription school and later was enrolled in two private schools. In the winter of 1836–1837, Grant was a student at Maysville Seminary, and in the autumn of 1838 he attended John Rankin's academy. Raised in a Methodist family devoid of religious pretentiousness, Grant prayed privately and was not an official member of the church. Unlike his younger siblings, Grant was neither disciplined, baptized, nor forced to attend church by his parents. One of his biographers suggests that Grant inherited a degree of introversion from his reserved, even \"uncommonly detached\" mother (she did not visit the White House during her son's presidency). Grant assumed the duties expected of him as a young man at home, which primarily included maintaining the firewood supply; he thereby developed a noteworthy ability to work with, and control, horses in his charge, and used this in providing transportation as a vocation in his youth.\n\nAt the age of 17, with the help of his father, Grant was nominated by Congressman Thomas L. Hamer for a position at the United States Military Academy (USMA) at West Point, New York. Hamer mistakenly nominated him as \"Ulysses S. Grant of Ohio\". At West Point, he adopted this name with a middle initial only. His nickname became \"Sam\" among army colleagues at the academy since the initials \"U.S.\" also stood for \"Uncle Sam\". The \"S\", according to Grant, did not stand for anything, though Hamer had used it to abbreviate his mother's maiden name. The influence of Grant's family brought about the appointment to West Point, while Grant himself later recalled \"a military life had no charms for me\". Grant, stood 5 feet 1 inches and weighed 117 lbs, when he entered West Point. Grant later said that he was lax in his studies, but he achieved above average grades in mathematics and geology. Although Grant had a quiet nature, he did establish a few intimate friends at West Point, including Frederick Tracy Dent and Rufus Ingalls. He joined a fraternity group known as the \"Twelve in One\", and was highly esteemed by his classmates. While not excelling scholastically, Grant studied under Romantic artist Robert Walter Weir and produced nine surviving artworks. He also established a reputation as a fearless and expert horseman, setting an equestrian high-jump record that stood almost 25 years. He graduated in 1843, ranking 21st in a class of 39. Grant later recalled that his departure from West Point was of the happiest of his times and that he had intended to resign his commission after serving the minimum term of obligated duty. Despite his excellent horsemanship, he was not assigned to the cavalry, as assignments were determined by class rank, not aptitude. Grant was instead assigned as a regimental quartermaster, managing supplies and equipment in the 4th Infantry Regiment, with the rank of brevet second lieutenant.\n\nGrant's first assignment after graduation took him to the Jefferson Barracks near St. Louis, Missouri. After recuperating from an illness that left him thin and weak, Grant reported there in September 1843. It was the nation's largest military bastion in the West, commanded by Colonel Stephen W. Kearny. Grant was happy with his new commander, but still looked forward to the end of his military service and a possible teaching career. Grant spent some of his time in Missouri visiting the family of his West Point classmate, Frederick Dent, and getting to know Dent's sister, Julia; the two became secretly engaged in 1844.\n\nRising tensions with Mexico saw Grant's unit shifted to Louisiana that year as a part of the Army of Observation under Major General Zachary Taylor. President James K Polk ordered Taylor south to force the Mexican government to bargain over disputed territory between the United States and Mexico. Grant was in charge of securing hundreds of mules in preparation for the move south. Grant purchased the mules from Mexicans and had the mules branded, but the mules resisted being broken to wear a saddle and pack. Taylor took notice of Grant when Grant jumped in the water to help his men remove oyster beds so ships could advance from Aransas Bay to Corpus Christi, saying he wished he \"had more officers like Grant.\" On March 11, 1846, Grant's Fourth Infantry, part of the Third Battalion, left Corpus Christi, first traveling west and then veering south. Having reached the Rio Grand, both the Mexican and American armies spied on each other. On April 25, the Mexican–American War broke out when Mexican troops fired on and killed 11 American troops, Commanded by Captain Seth Thorton, at Rancho de Carricitos. Defending Fort Texas on the Rio Grande, Taylor's army advanced on Palo Alto and Resaca de la Palma.\n\nGrant's first battle experience came at the Battle of Palo Alto against a substantial Mexican force that intended to flank and attack the American army. Grant did not panic and readied his 1822 musket when Taylor ordered two large artillery guns that fired on the Mexican army, who retreated. The next day the American army followed the retreating Mexican army to Resaca de la Palma.Not content with his responsibilities as a quartermaster, Grant made his way to the front lines to engage in the battle, and participated as a \"de facto\" cavalryman at the Battle of Resaca de la Palma. Grant led his company in a charge capturing a Mexican officer and a few of his men, Grant's first victory. Grant later realized the ground he gained and his captives had earlier been won in the battle.\n\nCrossing the Rio Grand, the United States army continued its advance into Mexico. Thousands of American volunteers were incorporated into the U.S. military serving alongside the regular army, including Thomas Hamer, who had nominated Grant to West Point. Starting in September, Taylor and his Army of Invasion, moved south and engaged the Mexican army at the Battle of Monterrey. During the battle, Grant demonstrated his equestrian ability, carrying a dispatch through Monterrey's sniper-lined streets on horseback while mounted in one stirrup.\n\nPresident James K. Polk, wary of Taylor's growing popularity, divided his army, sending some troops (including Grant's unit) to form a new army under Maj. Gen. Winfield Scott. Scott's army landed at Veracruz and advanced toward Mexico City. The army met the Mexican forces at battles of Molino del Rey and Chapultepec outside Mexico City. At the latter battle, Grant dragged a howitzer into a church steeple to bombard nearby Mexican troops. Scott's army was soon into the city, and the Mexicans agreed to peace not long after.\n\nIn his memoirs, indicating he had learned extensively by closely observing the decisions and actions of his commanding officers, particularly admiring Taylor's methods, and in retrospect identified himself with Taylor's style. At the time he felt that the war was a wrongful one and believed that territorial gains were designed to spread slavery throughout the nation; writing in 1883, Grant said \"I was bitterly opposed to the measure, and to this day, regard the war, which resulted, as one of the most unjust ever waged by a stronger against a weaker nation.\" He also opined that the later Civil War was inflicted on the nation as punishment for its aggression in Mexico.\n\nOn August 22, 1848, after a four-year engagement, Grant and Julia were married. He and Julia would go on to have four children: Frederick Dent Grant; Ulysses S. \"Buck\" Grant, Jr.; Ellen Wrenshall \"Nellie\" Grant; and Jesse Root Grant. The couple corresponded during his service in Mexico; in one letter Julia shared with him a very pleasurable dream she had of him in a beard, which he was then sporting upon his return after the war.\n\nAlthough Grant received promotions during the Mexican–American War, the peacetime army offered little for a young officer's advancement. Lieutenant Grant was assigned to several different posts over the ensuing six years. His first post-war assignments took him and Julia to Detroit and Sackets Harbor, New York, the location that made them the happiest. In the spring of 1852, he traveled in to Washington, D.C. in a failed attempt to prevail upon the Congress to rescind an order that he, in his capacity as quartermaster, reimburse the military $1000 in losses incurred on his watch, for which he bore no personal guilt. He was sent west to Fort Vancouver in the Oregon Territory in 1852, initially landing in San Francisco during the height of the California Gold Rush. Julia could not accompany him as she was eight months pregnant with their second child; further, a lieutenant's salary would not support a family on the frontier. The journey proved to be an ordeal due to transportation disruptions and an outbreak of cholera within the entourage while traveling overland through Panama. Grant made use of his organizational skills, arranging makeshift transportation and hospital facilities to take care of the sick. There were 150 4th Infantry fatalities including Grant's long-time friend John H. Gore. After Grant arrived in San Francisco he traveled to Fort Vancouver, continuing his service as quartermaster; }side note to the war/{Mr.Jeans, senator of Pennsylvania at the time, also provided the North with supplies such as section reviews} Pacific Northwest between settlers and Indians in the aftermath of the Cayuse War.\n\nWhile on assignment out west and in an effort to supplement a military salary inadequate to support his family, Grant, assuming his work as quartermaster so equipped him, attempted but failed at several business ventures. The business failures in the West confirmed Jesse Grant's belief that his son had no head for business, creating frustration for both father and son. In at least one case Grant had even naively allowed himself to be swindled by a partner. These failures, along with the separation from his family, made for quite an unhappy soldier, husband and son. Rumors began to circulate that Grant was drinking in excess.\n\nIn the summer of 1853, Grant was promoted to captain, one of only fifty on active duty, and assigned to command Company F, 4th Infantry, at Fort Humboldt, on the northwest California coast. Without explanation, he shortly thereafter resigned from the army on July 31, 1854. The commanding officer at Fort Humboldt, brevet Lieutenant Colonel Robert C. Buchanan, a strict disciplinarian, had reports that Grant was intoxicated off duty while seated at the pay officer's table. Buchanan had previously warned Grant several times to stop his drinking. In lieu of a court-martial, Buchanan gave Grant an ultimatum to sign a drafted resignation letter. Grant resigned; the War Department stated on his record, \"Nothing stands against his good name.\" Rumors, however, persisted in the regular army of Grant's intemperance. According to biographer McFeely, historians overwhelmingly agree that his intemperance at the time was a fact, though there are no eyewitness reports extant. Two of Grant's lieutenants corroborated this incident and Buchanan confirmed it to another officer in a conversation during the Civil War. Historian Jean Edward Smith says, \"The story rings true. Jean Edward Smith maintains Grant's resignation was too sudden to be a calculated decision. Historian William McFeely said that Grant left the army simply because he was \"profoundly depressed\" and that the evidence as to how much and how often Grant drank remains elusive. Buchanan never mentioned it again until asked about it during the Civil War. The effects and extent of Grant's drinking on his military and public career are debated by historians. Lyle Dorsett said Grant was an \"alcoholic\" but functioned amazingly well. William Farina maintains Grant's devotion to family kept him from drinking to excess and sinking into debt.\n\nYears later after his resignation, Grant told John Eaton, \"the vice of intemperance had not a little to do with my decision to resign.\" Grant's father, again believing his son's only potential for success to be in the military, tried to get the Secretary of War to rescind the resignation, to no avail.\n\nAt age 32, with no civilian vocation, Grant began to struggle through seven financially lean years and poverty. His father, Jesse, initially offered Grant a position in the Galena, Illinois branch of the tannery business, on condition that Julia and the children, for economic reasons, stay with her parents in Missouri, or Grant's in Kentucky. Ulysses and Julia were adamantly opposed to another separation, and declined the offer. In 1854, Grant farmed on his brother-in-law's property near St. Louis, using slaves owned by Julia's father, but it did not succeed. Two years later, Grant and family moved to a section of his father-in-law's farm; to give his family a home, built a house he called \"Hardscrabble\". Julia hated the rustic house, which she described as an \"unattractive cabin\". During this time, Grant also acquired a slave from Julia's father, a thirty-five-year-old man named William Jones. Having met with no success farming, the Grants left the farm when their fourth and final child was born in 1858. Grant freed his slave in 1859 instead of selling him, at a time when slaves commanded a high price and Grant needed money badly. For the next year, the family took a small house in St. Louis where he worked, again without success, with Julia's cousin Harry Boggs, as a bill collector. In 1860 Jesse offered him the job in his tannery in Galena, Illinois, without condition, which Ulysses accepted. The leather shop, \"Grant & Perkins\", sold harnesses, saddles, and other leather goods and purchased hides from farmers in the prosperous Galena area. He moved his family to Galena before that year.\n\nAlthough unopposed to slavery at the time, Grant kept his political opinions private and never endorsed any candidate running for public office before the Civil War. His father-in-law was a prominent Democrat in Missouri, a factor that helped derail Grant's bid to become county engineer in 1859, while his own father was an outspoken Republican. In the 1856 election, Grants cast his first presidential vote for the Democratic candidate James Buchanan, saying he was really voting against Fremont, the Republican candidate. In 1860, he favored the Democratic presidential candidate Stephen A. Douglas over Abraham Lincoln, and Lincoln over the alternate Democratic candidate, John C. Breckinridge. Lacking the residency requirements in Illinois at the time, he could not vote. By August 1863, during the Civil War, after the fall of Vicksburg, Grant's political sympathies fully coincided with the Radical Republicans' aggressive prosecution of the war and for the abolition of slavery.\n\n"}
{"id": "441620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=441620", "title": "Edward Langworthy", "text": "Edward Langworthy\n\nEdward Langworthy (1738–1802) was an American teacher who was a delegate to the Continental Congress from Georgia. He signed the Articles of Confederation.\n\nEdward was born in Savannah, Georgia in 1738. Nothing is known of his ancestors since he was a foundling. He was raised in the Bethesda Orphan House at Savannah, and educated in the school there. He later taught in that same school. Since he was born only five years after James Oglethorpe shipped the first colonists to Georgia, it is likely that his parents were included with those recruited from debtors' prisons or poorhouses.\n\nLangworthy began working with Georgia's \"Committee of Safety\", and was their secretary when they became a revolutionary \"Council of Safety\" on December 11, 1775. The Georgia assembly sent him to the Continental Congress in 1777, and he arrived just in time to sign the Articles of Confederation. He served in the Congress until 1779.\n\nEdward moved to Baltimore, Maryland in 1785. He married a young lady named Wright, and the couple had four children. He also bought a part interest in a newspaper \"The Maryland Journal & Baltimore Advertiser\" and became its editor. In 1787 he sold his interest, and became an instructor at the Baltimore Academy.\n\nIn 1795 Langworthy was made the clerk of customs for Baltimore, a post he held until his death. He died of Yellow fever on November 2, 1802 and was buried at the Old Episcopal Church. The church was torn down in 1891, and details of any re-interment are unknown.\n"}
{"id": "19337462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19337462", "title": "Elena Ceaușescu", "text": "Elena Ceaușescu\n\nElena Ceaușescu (; \"née\" Lenuța Petrescu; 7 January 1916 – 25 December 1989) was a Romanian communist politician who was the wife of Nicolae Ceaușescu, President of the Socialist Republic of Romania. She was also the Deputy Prime Minister of Romania.\n\nShe was born Lenuța Petrescu into a peasant family in Petrești commune, Dâmbovița County, in the historical region of Wallachia. Her father worked as a ploughman. She was only able to acquire an elementary school level education. After elementary school, she moved along with her brother to Bucharest, where she worked as a laboratory assistant before finding employment in a textile factory. She joined the Bucharest branch of the Romanian Communist Party in 1939 and met 21-year-old Nicolae Ceaușescu. Ceaușescu was instantly attracted to her which, reportedly, made him never look at another woman in a romantic manner. Their relationship was interrupted by Ceaușescu's frequent stints in prison, but they finally married on 23 December 1947.\n\nAfter the Communists took power, Ceaușescu worked as a secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and was an unimportant figure until her husband became general secretary of the party. Starting in July 1972, Elena Ceaușescu was given various offices at senior levels in the Romanian Communist Party. In June 1973 she became a member of the Politburo of the Romanian Communist Party, becoming the second most important and influential person after Ceauşescu himself. She was deeply involved in party administration alongside her husband, and was one of the few spouses of a Communist Party boss to have a high political profile of her own.\n\nCeaușescu frequently accompanied her husband on official visits abroad. During a state visit to the People's Republic of China in June 1971, she took note of how Jiang Qing, Chairman Mao Zedong's wife, maintained a position of real power. Most likely inspired by this, she began to engineer her own political rise in Romania. In July 1971, after a mini-cultural revolution launched by her husband, she was elected a member of the Central Commission on Socio-Economic Forecasting, and in July 1972, she became a full member of the Romanian Communist Party Central Committee. In June 1973, after having been nominated by Emil Bodnăraș, she was elected to the party's Executive Committee. In November 1974, at the 11th Party Congress, she was made a member of the (renamed) political executive committee, and in January 1977, she became a member of the highest party body, the Permanent Bureau of the Political Executive Committee. In March 1975, she was elected to the Great National Assembly, the country's national legislature, holding the seat for Pitești, Arges County, the most important industrial region of the country, until her death in 1989. In March 1980, she was made a First Deputy Prime Minister, a state title she also held until she was executed in the Romanian Revolution.\nFrom the early 1980s onward, Elena was the object of a personality cult as intense as that of her husband, which exalted her as the \"Mother of the Nation.\" By all accounts, her vanity and desire for honours exceeded that of her husband. As with her husband, Romanian Television was under strict orders to take great care portraying her on screen. For instance, she was never supposed to be shown in profile because of her large nose and overall homely appearance.\n\nCeaușescu fled with her husband on 22 December 1989, after the events in Timișoara led to the Romanian Revolution, but she and her husband were captured in the town of Targoviste. At the show trial that took place, she answered only a few questions since her husband took a protective role, asked her to calm down and shook his head each time her mouth opened to reply in anger.\n\nOn the afternoon of 25 December 1989, (Christmas Day) in Târgoviște they were turned over to a firing squad and executed. Her arms, and those of her husband, were tied behind their backs. Popular history author Simon Sebag Montefiore has claimed that, before the sentences were carried out, Elena reacted far more belligerently than her husband, allegedly screaming: \"You motherfucking assholes!\" while being led up against the wall; at the same time Nicolae Ceaușescu sang \"The Internationale\". Their actual execution was not filmed in time – the firing squad was in a hurry to carry out the sentence – but the aftermath, including echoes of the final volley, the pall of smoke, and the bodies immediately afterwards, were caught on camera. She was 73 years old. She was the only woman ever executed by the modern state of Romania.\n\nCeaușescu was outlived by her mother, a near centenarian at the time of her death, her brother Gheorghe Petrescu (also an important figure in the party) and her three children: Valentin (b. 1948), Zoia (1949–2006) and Nicu (1951–1996), who was also a very important member of the Romanian Communist Party. Elena Ceaușescu was buried in Ghencea Cemetery.\n\nAfter graduating from primary school in her village and moving to Bucharest, Ceaușescu attempted to continue her education through night courses, but was expelled after being caught cheating. As such, her formal education was minimal. Despite this, during the communist period she was promoted as a scientist, and was also awarded a PhD in chemistry.\n\nIn 1957 she was a research scientist at ICECHIM (National Institute for Chemical Research). In the early 1960s she was reported to be secretary of the party committee of the Bucharest Central Institute of Chemical Researches, and, when her husband took over the party leadership in March 1965, she was listed as the institute's director. In December of the same year, she was elected a member of the newly established National Council of Scientific Research, and in September 1966 she was awarded the Order of Scientific Merit First Class. In March 1974, she was made a member of the Romanian Academy's Section for Chemical Sciences. Ceaușescu was given many honorary awards for scientific achievement in the field of polymer chemistry during the period when her husband ruled Romania.\n\nAfter the Revolution of 1989, several scientists have claimed that Ceaușescu had forced them to write papers in her name. Claims have also arisen that the university gave her the honour of the doctorate solely because of her political position.\n\nMost respected academic institutions and universities in the West refused to acknowledge her alleged academic merit. She was made a member of the Illinois Academy of Sciences. Ceaușescu later responded by saying that she never heard of Illinois and made an antisemitic remark about the President of the Academy of Sciences at the time, the chemist Emanuel Merdinger. She allegedly obtained her awards with money, instead of merit.\n\nAccording to a 1984 report by Radio Free Europe, \"It is rumored that, at the time when she wanted to receive her doctorate from the Bucharest Faculty of Chemistry, she met with strong opposition from the Romanian chemist Costin D. Nenitescu, the dean of the faculty. She was forced instead to present her thesis to Cristofor Simionescu and Ioan Ursu at the University of Iasi, where she met with complete success.\"\n\nIn summary, to quote from an article on plagiarism in the leading scientific journal \"Nature\":\nShe was sometimes nicknamed \"Codoi\", referring to her alleged mispronunciation of the name of the chemical compound CO (C for carbon, O for oxygen, and \"doi\" being Romanian for \"two\"). She was mocked by many, including an official who called her by this nickname during her show trial. Contributing to the humorous effect, \"codoi\" is an actual word in Romanian, meaning \"big tail\".\n\n\nHonorary Degree\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9431004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9431004", "title": "Elizabeth of Reute", "text": "Elizabeth of Reute\n\nThe Blessed Elizabeth of Reute, T.O.R., (also known as \"Betha the Good; Betha von Reute; Elisabeth Acheer; Elisabeth Achlin; Elisabeth Bona von Reute; Elisabeth den Gode; Elisabeth the Good; Elizabeth Acheer; Elizabeth of Reute; Elizabeth the Good; Elizabeth the Recluse; Elsbeth Achler; Elsbeth Achlin; Elsbeth von Reute\") (November 25, 1386 - November 25, 1420) was a German Franciscan tertiary sister who is venerated as a mystic and as having borne the Stigmata.\n\nElizabeth was born on November 25, 1386 to Hans and Anna Achler in Waldsee in the region of Upper Swabia (an historic and linguistic region in Germany). She was raised in a pious home, hearing the Gospels explained to her by her mother in the form of stories, where she developed a strong devotion to the Passion of Christ. She became a member of the Third Order of St. Francis at the age of fourteen. Seeking to further her spiritual growth, she took as her confessor the provost of the local Canonry of St. Peter in Waldsee, Dom Konrad Kügelin (1366-1428). Under his guidance, she and several other girls who belonged to that Franciscan fraternity sought to follow a more intense experience of their Franciscan vocation. To this end, they acquired a house in Reute on the outskirts of Waldsee in 1403.\n\nThis community was a proto-monastery of the Order, as tertiaries of the mendicant orders had not yet been allowed to profess vows. Elizabeth threw herself into a life of prayer and service, working in the cloister kitchen and in the garden, where she would spend long hours in prayer.\n\nShe was known for her hospitality to visitors to the little monastery, especially for her concern for the poor who came to the gate to beg. Her love of the Blessed Sacrament was so great that she lived the last twelve years of her life subsisting solely on the consecrated hosts. She died on her birthday in 1420.\n\nHer head is said to have showed the marks of the crown of thorns worn by Christ, and her body the marks of Christ's scourging. Although Stigmata only occasionally appeared on her hands, she always felt its pain. She was credited with the gift of prophecy foretelling the election of Pope Martin V and the end of the Great Western Schism.\n\nShe was buried in the parish church of Reute. A biography of her was written by Kügelin, her confessor, and sent to the Bishop of Konstanz. However, popular veneration for Elizabeth occurred only after 1623, when her tomb was opened by the then-provost of Waldsee. Miracles were attributed to her, which were compiled into a formal document by a contemporary canon, Heinrich Scheffler (d. 1635). Pope Clement XIII officially approved her \"cultus\" on 19 June 1766. Her feast day is celebrated in Germany on 25 November.\n\n"}
{"id": "49801521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49801521", "title": "Filmography and awards of Stanley Donen", "text": "Filmography and awards of Stanley Donen\n\nStanley Donen ( ; born April 13, 1924) is an American film director and choreographer, and occasionally worked in the American theater. He has directed 28 feature films and worked on various other films or television projects, often as a choreographer. He began his career in the chorus line on Broadway for director George Abbott, where he befriended Gene Kelly. Shortly afterwards he moved to Hollywood and collaborated with Kelly on numerous films as a chorographer until they became co-directors on his feature film debut \"On the Town\". In 1952 Donen and Kelly co-directed the musical \"Singin' in the Rain\", regarded as one of the greatest films ever made. He went on to direct hit films for several decades thereafter, many of which are currently regarded as classics. He has won numerous awards for his life's work, most notably an Honorary Academy Award in 1998 and a Career Golden Lion from the Venice Film Festival in 2004.\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "54429395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54429395", "title": "Flavian LaPlante", "text": "Flavian LaPlante\n\nFlavian Laplante, C.S.C. (1907-1981) was a Holy Cross Brother and a missionary who worked in Bangladesh from 1932 until 1981. He was a teacher and then a headmaster in different Catholic schools in the districts of Barisal, Noakhali and Chittagong. Later he was involved with the socio-economic development of the Jolodash community. He founded Miriam Ashram at Diang, on the 1 Karnaphuly River. He also built a grotto with the statue of Our Lady of Lourdes and turned it into a shrine.\n\nFlavian was born on 27 July 1907 in St.-Louis-de-Richelieu, Quebec, Canada to Honoré Laplante and Louise Théroux. He was the seventh child of nine.\n\nHe joined Congregation of Holy Cross at the age of 16. He took the name, Brother Flavian, on 15 August 1923. He professed Final Vows on 16 August 1928. He served at the Notre Dame College in Quebec as a teacher and dorm supervisor.\n\nHe was assigned to the Congregation's mission in East Bengal in 1932.\n\nSaint André Bessette remarked when he was leaving for his mission, \"How fortunate you are in becoming a missionary. I envy you.\" He arrived Chittagong in East Bengal on 1 December 1932. His first assignment was at a high school in Padrishibpur. Besides construction of the school he also taught at the school and later on was appointed as a Principal. He reached Chittagong in May 1942 to help people, when Japan was conducting air raids. He stayed there even at the time of famine. He started a project for fisherman to get new boats after World War II. He also started an orphanage at Diang. he was sent to Noakhali from 1957 to 1962. In Diang he renamed the settlement there Miriam Ashram or the “Marian Hermitage.\" He also started Women's Promotion Center with the help of the Holy Cross sisters. “Kalidaha Fishing Project” was started in 1975 to help fisherman motorize their boats and founded a technical school to give them the skills to build and repair their own boats. On 24 December 1976 he retired to the life of a hermit. He installed a statue of Our Lady on 1 October 1978 and organized the feast day on 11 February 1979.\n\nFlavian died in Bangladesh on 19 June 1981 after prolonged illness.\n\nBr. Flavian Laplante was declared a Servant of God by Patrick D’Rozario on 13 February 2009.\n"}
{"id": "21486576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21486576", "title": "Giuseppe Garibaldi", "text": "Giuseppe Garibaldi\n\nGiuseppe Garibaldi (; 4 July 1807 – 2 June 1882) was an Italian general and nationalist. A republican, he contributed to the Italian unification and the creation of the Kingdom of Italy. He is considered one of the greatest generals of modern times and one of Italy's \"fathers of the fatherland\" along with Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour, Victor Emmanuel II of Italy and Giuseppe Mazzini.\n\nGaribaldi is also known as the \"Hero of the Two Worlds\" because of his military enterprises in Brazil, Uruguay and Europe. He commanded and fought in many military campaigns that led eventually to the Italian unification. In 1848, the provisional government of Milan made Garibaldi a general, and in 1849, the Minister of War promoted him to General of the Roman Republic to lead the Expedition of the Thousand on behalf and with the consent of Victor Emmanuel II. His last military campaign took place during the Franco-Prussian War, as commander of the Army of the Vosges.\n\nGaribaldi was very popular in Italy and abroad, aided by exceptional international media coverage at the time. Many great intellectuals of the time, such as Victor Hugo, Alexandre Dumas, and George Sand, showered him with admiration. The United Kingdom and the United States helped him a great deal, offering him financial and military support in difficult circumstances. In the popular telling of his story, he is associated with the red shirts that his volunteers, the \"Garibaldini\", wore in lieu of a uniform.\n\nGaribaldi was born and christened Joseph-Marie Garibaldi on 4 July 1807 in Nice, which had been directly annexed by the First French Empire in 1805, to the Ligurian family of Giovanni Domenico Garibaldi from Chiavari and Maria Rosa Nicoletta Raimondo from Loano. In 1814, the Congress of Vienna returned Nice to Victor Emmanuel I of Sardinia; nevertheless, France re-annexed it in 1860 by the Treaty of Turin, which was ardently opposed by Garibaldi.\n\nGaribaldi's family's involvement in coastal trade drew him to a life at sea. He participated actively in the Nizzardo Italians community and was certified in 1832 as a merchant navy captain.\n\nIn April 1833 he travelled to Taganrog, Russia, in the schooner \"Clorinda\" with a shipment of oranges. During ten days in port he met Giovanni Battista Cuneo from Oneglia, a politically active immigrant and member of the secret Young Italy movement of Giuseppe Mazzini. Mazzini was an impassioned proponent of Italian unification as a liberal republic through political and social reform. Garibaldi joined the society and took an oath dedicating himself to the struggle to liberate and unify his homeland free from Austrian dominance.\nIn Geneva during November 1833, Garibaldi met Mazzini, starting a long relationship that later became troublesome. He joined the Carbonari revolutionary association, and in February 1834 participated in a failed Mazzinian insurrection in Piedmont. A Genoese court sentenced Garibaldi to death \"in absentia\", and he fled across the border to Marseille.\n\nGaribaldi first sailed to Tunisia before eventually finding his way to the Empire of Brazil. Once there, he took up the cause of Republic of Rio Grande do Sul in its attempt to separate from Brazil, joining the rebels known as the Ragamuffins in the Ragamuffin War.\n\nDuring this war he met Ana Ribeiro da Silva, commonly known as \"Anita\". When the Ragamuffins tried to proclaim another republic in the Brazilian province of Santa Catarina in October 1839, she joined him aboard his ship, \"Rio Pardo\", and fought alongside him at the battles of Imbituba and Laguna.\n\nIn 1841, Garibaldi and Anita moved to Montevideo, Uruguay, where Garibaldi worked as a trader and schoolmaster. The couple married in Montevideo the following year. They had four children – Menotti (born 1840), Rosita (born 1843), Teresita (born 1845), and Ricciotti (born 1847). A skilled horsewoman, Anita is said to have taught Giuseppe about the gaucho culture of southern Brazil and Uruguay. Around this time, he adopted his trademark clothing—the red shirt, poncho, and sombrero commonly worn by gauchos.\n\nIn 1842, Garibaldi took command of the Uruguayan fleet and raised an \"Italian Legion\" of soldiers known as \"Redshirts\", who wore red, blouse-type shirts, for the Uruguayan Civil War. He aligned his forces with the Uruguayan Colorados led by Fructuoso Rivera, who were aligned with the Argentine Unitarios. This faction received some support from the French and British Empires in their struggle against the forces of former Uruguayan president Manuel Oribe's Blancos, which was also aligned with Argentine Federales under the rule of Buenos Aires caudillo Juan Manuel de Rosas.\n\nThe Italian Legion adopted a black flag that represented Italy in mourning, with a volcano at the center that symbolized the dormant power in their homeland. Though contemporary sources don't mention the red shirts, popular history asserts that the legion first wore them in Uruguay, getting them from a factory in Montevideo that had intended to export them to the slaughterhouses of Argentina. These shirts became the symbol of Garibaldi and his followers.\nBetween 1842 and 1848, Garibaldi defended Montevideo against forces led by Oribe. In 1845 he managed to occupy Colonia del Sacramento and Martín García Island, and led the controversial sack of Gualeguaychú during the Anglo-French blockade of the Río de la Plata. Adopting guerrilla tactics, Garibaldi later achieved two victories during 1846, in the Battle of Cerro and the Battle of San Antonio del Santo.\n\nGaribaldi joined Freemasonry during his exile, taking advantage of the asylum the lodges offered to political refugees from European countries governed by despotic regimes. At the age of thirty-seven, during 1844, Garibaldi was initiated in the \"L'Asil de la Vertud\" Lodge of Montevideo. This was an irregular lodge under a Brazilian Freemasonry not recognized by the main international masonic obediences, such as the United Grand Lodge of England or the Grand Orient de France. While Garibaldi had little use for masonic rituals, he was an active Freemason and regarded Freemasonry as a network that united progressive men as brothers both within nations and as a global community. Garibaldi was eventually elected as the Grand Master of the Grand Orient of Italy.\n\nGaribaldi later regularized his position in 1844, joining the lodge \"Les Amis de la Patrie\" of Montevideo under the Grand Orient of France.\n\nThe fate of his homeland, however, continued to concern Garibaldi. The election of Pope Pius IX in 1846 caused a sensation among Italian patriots, both at home and in exile. Pius's initial reforms seemed to identify him as the liberal pope called for by Vincenzo Gioberti, who went on to lead the unification of Italy. When news of these reforms reached Montevideo, Garibaldi wrote to the Pope: \n\nMazzini, from exile, also applauded the early reforms of Pius IX. In 1847, Garibaldi offered the apostolic nuncio at Rio de Janeiro, Bedini, the service of his Italian Legion for the liberation of the peninsula. Then news of an outbreak of revolution in Palermo in January 1848 and revolutionary agitation elsewhere in Italy encouraged Garibaldi to lead around sixty members of his legion home.\n\nGaribaldi returned to Italy amidst the turmoil of the revolutions of 1848 in the Italian states and offered his services to Charles Albert of Sardinia. The monarch displayed some liberal inclinations, but treated Garibaldi with coolness and distrust. Rebuffed by the Piedmontese, he and his followers crossed into Lombardy where they offered assistance to the provisional government of Milan, which had rebelled against the Austrian occupation. In the course of the following unsuccessful First Italian War of Independence, Garibaldi led his legion to two minor victories at Luino and Morazzone.\n\nAfter the crushing Piedmontese defeat at Novara (23 March 1849), Garibaldi moved to Rome to support the Republic recently proclaimed in the Papal States, but a French force sent by Louis Napoleon (the future Napoleon III) threatened to topple it. At Mazzini's urging, Garibaldi took command of the defence of Rome. In fighting near Velletri, Achille Cantoni saved his life. After Cantoni's death, during the Battle of Mentana, Garibaldi wrote the novel \"Cantoni il volontario\" (Cantoni the Volunteer).\nOn 30 April 1849 the Republican army, under Garibaldi's command, defeated a numerically far superior French army. Subsequently, French reinforcements arrived, and the siege of Rome began on 1 June. Despite the resistance of the Republican army, the French prevailed on 29 June. On 30 June the Roman Assembly met and debated three options: surrender, continue fighting in the streets, or retreat from Rome to continue resistance from the Apennine mountains. Garibaldi, having entered the chamber covered in blood, made a speech favouring the third option, ending with: \"Ovunque noi saremo, sarà Roma.\" (Wherever we go, Rome will be there).\n\nThe sides negotiated a truce on 1 July, and on 2 July Garibaldi withdrew from Rome with 4,000 troops, and an ambition to rouse popular rebellion against the Austrians in central Italy. The French Army entered Rome on 3 July and reestablished the Holy See's temporal power. Garibaldi and his forces, hunted by Austrian, French, Spanish, and Neapolitan troops, fled to the north, intending to reach Venice, where the Venetians were still resisting the Austrian siege. After an epic march, Garibaldi took momentary refuge in San Marino, with only 250 men having not abandoned him. Anita, who was carrying their fifth child, died near Comacchio during the retreat.\n\nGaribaldi eventually managed to reach Porto Venere, near La Spezia, but the Piedmontese government forced him to emigrate again.\n\nHe went to Tangier, where he stayed with Francesco Carpanetto, a wealthy Italian merchant. Carpanetto suggested that he and some of his associates finance the purchase of a merchant ship, which Garibaldi would command. Garibaldi agreed, feeling that his political goals were, for the moment, unreachable, and he could at least earn his own living.\n\nThe ship was to be purchased in the United States, so Garibaldi went to New York, arriving on 30 July 1850. However, the funds for purchasing a ship were lacking. While in New York, he stayed with various Italian friends, including some exiled revolutionaries. He attended the masonic lodges of New York in 1850, where he met several supporters of democratic internationalism, whose minds were open to socialist thought, and to giving Freemasonry a strong anti-papal stance.\n\nThe inventor Antonio Meucci employed Garibaldi in his candle factory on Staten Island. (The cottage on Staten Island where he stayed is listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places and is preserved as the Garibaldi Memorial.) Garibaldi was not satisfied with this, and in April 1851 he left New York with his friend\nCarpanetto for Central America, where Carpanetto was establishing business operations. They went first to Nicaragua, and then to other parts of the region. Garibaldi accompanied Carpanetto as a companion, not a business partner, and used the name \"Giuseppe Pane\".\n\nCarpanetto went on to Lima, Peru, where a shipload of his goods was due, arriving late in 1851 with Garibaldi. En route, Garibaldi called on Andean revolutionary heroine Manuela Sáenz. At Lima, Garibaldi was generally welcomed. A local Italian merchant, Pietro Denegri, gave him command of his ship \"Carmen\" for a trading voyage across the Pacific. Garibaldi took the \"Carmen\" to the Chincha Islands for a load of guano. Then on 10 January 1852, he sailed from Peru for Canton, China, arriving in April.\n\nAfter side trips to Xiamen and Manila, Garibaldi brought the \"Carmen\" back to Peru via the Indian Ocean and the South Pacific, passing clear around the south coast of Australia. He visited Three Hummock Island in Bass Strait. Garibaldi then took the \"Carmen\" on a second voyage: to the United States via Cape Horn with copper from Chile, and also wool. Garibaldi arrived in Boston, and went on to New York. There he received a hostile letter from Denegri, and resigned his command. Another Italian, Captain Figari, had just come to the U.S. to buy a ship, and hired Garibaldi to take the ship to Europe. Figari and Garibaldi bought the \"Commonwealth\" in Baltimore, and Garibaldi left New York for the last time in November 1853. He sailed the \"Commonwealth\" to London, and then to Newcastle on the River Tyne for coal.\n\nThe \"Commonwealth\" arrived on 21 March 1854. Garibaldi, already a popular figure on Tyneside, was welcomed enthusiastically by local working men-though the \"Newcastle Courant\" reported that he refused an invitation to dine with dignitaries in the city. He stayed in Huntingdon Place Tynemouth for a few days, and in South Shields on Tyneside for over a month, departing at the end of April 1854. During his stay, he was presented with an inscribed sword, which his grandson Giuseppe Garibaldi II later carried as a volunteer in British service in the Second Boer War. He then sailed to Genoa, where his five years of exile ended on 10 May 1854.\n\nGaribaldi returned again to Italy in 1854. Using an inheritance from the death of his brother, he bought half of the Italian island of Caprera (north of Sardinia), devoting himself to agriculture. In 1859, the Second Italian War of Independence (also known as the Austro-Sardinian War) broke out in the midst of internal plots at the Sardinian government. Garibaldi was appointed major general, and formed a volunteer unit named the Hunters of the Alps (\"Cacciatori delle Alpi\"). Thenceforth, Garibaldi abandoned Mazzini's republican ideal of the liberation of Italy, assuming that only the Piedmontese monarchy could effectively achieve it. He and his volunteers won victories over the Austrians at Varese, Como, and other places.\n\nGaribaldi was, however, very displeased, as his home city of Nice (\"Nizza\" in Italian) had surrendered to the French in return for crucial military assistance. In April 1860, as deputy for Nice in the Piedmontese parliament at Turin, he vehemently attacked Cavour for ceding Nice and the County of Nice (\"Nizzardo\") to Louis Napoleon, Emperor of France. In the following years, Garibaldi (with other passionate \"Nizzardo Italians\") promoted the \"Italian irredentism\" of his \"Nizza\", even with riots (in 1872).\n\nOn 24 January 1860, Garibaldi married an 18-year-old Lombard woman, Giuseppina Raimondi. Immediately after the wedding ceremony, she informed him that she was pregnant with another man's child and Garibaldi left her the same day.\n\nAt the beginning of April 1860, uprisings in Messina and Palermo in the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies provided Garibaldi with an opportunity. He gathered about a thousand volunteers – called \"i Mille\" (the Thousand), or, as popularly known, the Redshirts – in two ships named Il Piemonte and Il Lombardo, and left from Genoa on 5 May in the evening and landed at Marsala, on the westernmost point of Sicily, on 11 May.\nSwelling the ranks of his army with scattered bands of local rebels, Garibaldi led 800 volunteers to victory over an enemy force of 1500 on the hill of Calatafimi on 15 May. He used the counter-intuitive tactic of an uphill bayonet charge. He saw that the hill was terraced, and the terraces would shelter his advancing men. Though small by comparison with the coming clashes at Palermo, Milazzo and Volturno, this battle was decisive in establishing Garibaldi's power in the island. An apocryphal but realistic story had him say to his lieutenant Nino Bixio, \"Qui si fa l'Italia o si muore\", that is, \"Here we either make Italy, or we die\". In reality, the Neapolitan forces were ill guided, and most of its higher officers had been bought out. The next day, he declared himself dictator of Sicily in the name of Victor Emmanuel II of Italy. He advanced to the outskirts of Palermo, the capital of the island, and launched a siege on 27 May. He had the support of many inhabitants, who rose up against the garrison—but before they could take the city, reinforcements arrived and bombarded the city nearly to ruins. At this time, a British admiral intervened and facilitated an armistice, by which the Neapolitan royal troops and warships surrendered the city and departed. Historians Clough et al. argue that Garibaldi’s Thousand were students, independent artisans, and professionals, not peasants. The support given by Sicilian peasants was from patriotism, but from their hatred of exploitative landlords and oppressive Neapolitan officials. Garibaldi himself had no interest in social revolution, and instead sided with the Sicilian landlords against the rioting peasants.\nBy conquering Palermo, Garibaldi had won a signal victory. He gained worldwide renown and the adulation of Italians. Faith in his prowess was so strong that doubt, confusion, and dismay seized even the Neapolitan court. Six weeks later, he marched against Messina in the east of the island, winning a ferocious and difficult battle at Milazzo. By the end of July, only the citadel resisted.\nHaving conquered Sicily, he crossed the Strait of Messina and marched north. Garibaldi's progress was met with more celebration than resistance, and on 7 September he entered the capital city of Naples, by train. Despite taking Naples, however, he had not to this point defeated the Neapolitan army. Garibaldi's volunteer army of 24,000 was not able to defeat conclusively the reorganized Neapolitan army (about 25,000 men) on 30 September at the Battle of Volturno. This was the largest battle he ever fought, but its outcome was effectively decided by the arrival of the Piedmontese Army. Following this, Garibaldi's plans to march on to Rome were jeopardized by the Piedmontese, technically his ally but unwilling to risk war with France, whose army protected the Pope. (The Piedmontese themselves had conquered most of the Pope's territories in their march south to meet Garibaldi, but they had deliberately avoided Rome, capital of the Papal state.) Garibaldi chose to hand over all his territorial gains in the south to the Piedmontese and withdrew to Caprera and temporary retirement. Some modern historians consider the handover of his gains to the Piedmontese as a political defeat, but he seemed willing to see Italian unity brought about under the Piedmontese crown. The meeting at Teano between Garibaldi and Victor Emmanuel II is the most important event in modern Italian history, but is so shrouded in controversy that even the exact site where it took place is in doubt.\n\nGaribaldi deeply disliked the Sardinian Prime Minister, Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour. To an extent, he simply mistrusted Cavour's pragmatism and \"realpolitik\", but he also bore a personal grudge for Cavour's trading away his home city of Nice to the French the previous year. On the other hand, he felt attracted toward the Piedmontese monarch, who in his opinion had been chosen by Providence for the liberation of Italy. In his famous meeting with Victor Emmanuel II at Teano on 26 October 1860, Garibaldi greeted him as King of Italy and shook his hand. Garibaldi rode into Naples at the king's side on 7 November, then retired to the rocky island of Caprera, refusing to accept any reward for his services.\n\nAt the outbreak of the American Civil War (in 1861), Garibaldi volunteered his services to President Abraham Lincoln. Garibaldi was offered a major general’s commission in the U. S. Army through the letter from Secretary of State William H. Seward to H. S. Sanford, the U. S. Minister at Brussels, July 17, 1861. On September 18, 1861, Sanford sent the following reply to Seward:\n\nThese conditions could not be met. On August 6, 1863, after the Emancipation Proclamation had been issued, Garibaldi wrote to Lincoln, \"Posterity will call you the great emancipator, a more enviable title than any crown could be, and greater than any merely mundane treasure\".\n\nOn 5 October 1861, Garibaldi set up the International Legion bringing together different national divisions of French, Poles, Swiss, German and other nationalities, with a view not just of finishing the liberation of Italy, but also of their homelands. With the motto \"Free from the Alps to the Adriatic,\" the unification movement set its gaze on Rome and Venice. Mazzini was discontented with the perpetuation of monarchial government, and continued to agitate for a republic. Garibaldi, frustrated at inaction by the king, and bristling over perceived snubs, organized a new venture. This time, he intended to take on the Papal States.\n\nGaribaldi himself was intensely anti-Catholic and anti-papal. His efforts to overthrow the pope by military action mobilized anti-Catholic support. For example, there were major anti-Catholic riots in his name across Britain in 1862, with the Irish Catholics fighting in defense of their Church. Garibaldi's hostility to the Pope's temporal domain was viewed with great distrust by Catholics around the world, and the French emperor Napoleon III had guaranteed the independence of Rome from Italy by stationing a French garrison in Rome. Victor Emmanuel was wary of the international repercussions of attacking the Papal States, and discouraged his subjects from participating in revolutionary ventures with such intentions. Nonetheless, Garibaldi believed he had the secret support of his government.\n\nIn June 1862, he sailed from Genoa to Palermo to gather volunteers for the impending campaign, under the slogan \"Roma o Morte\" (Rome or Death). An enthusiastic party quickly joined him, and he turned for Messina, hoping to cross to the mainland there. He arrived with a force of around two thousand, but the garrison proved loyal to the king's instructions and barred his passage. They turned south and set sail from Catania, where Garibaldi declared that he would enter Rome as a victor or perish beneath its walls. He landed at Melito on 14 August, and marched at once into the Calabrian mountains.\n\nFar from supporting this endeavor, the Italian government was quite disapproving. General Enrico Cialdini dispatched a division of the regular army, under Colonel Emilio Pallavicini, against the volunteer bands. On 28 August the two forces met in the rugged Aspromonte. One of the regulars fired a chance shot, and several volleys followed, killing a few of the volunteers. The fighting ended quickly, as Garibaldi forbade his men to return fire on fellow subjects of the Kingdom of Italy. Many of the volunteers were taken prisoner, including Garibaldi, who had been wounded by a shot in the foot. (The episode was the origin of a famous Italian nursery rhyme: \"Garibaldi fu ferito\" \"Garibaldi was wounded\").\n\nA government steamer took him to a prison at Varignano near La Spezia, where he was held in a sort of honorable imprisonment and underwent a tedious and painful operation to heal his wound. His venture had failed, but he was consoled by Europe's sympathy and continued interest. One historian of the American Civil War wrote that the distraction created by Garibaldi's wounding, followed by his unequivocal endorsement of the Union cause, was as important as Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation in preserving British and French neutrality in the American conflict—thus significantly aiding the Northern cause. After he regained his health, the government released Garibaldi and let him return to Caprera.\n\nEn route to London in 1864 he stopped briefly in Malta, where many admirers visited him in his hotel. Feeble protests by opponents of his anticlericalism were easily suppressed by the British colonial authorities. In London his presence was received with enthusiasm by the population. He met the British prime minister Viscount Palmerston, as well as revolutionaries then living in exile in the city. At that time, his ambitious international project included the liberation of a range of occupied nations, such as Croatia, Greece, and Hungary. He also visited Bedford and was given a tour of the Britannia Iron Works, where he planted a tree (which was cut down in 1944 due to decay).\n\nGaribaldi took up arms again in 1866, this time with the full support of the Italian government. The Austro-Prussian War had broken out, and Italy had allied with Prussia against the Austrian Empire in the hope of taking Venetia from Austrian rule (Third Italian War of Independence). Garibaldi gathered again his Hunters of the Alps, now some 40,000 strong, and led them into the Trentino. He defeated the Austrians at Bezzecca (securing the only Italian victory in that war) and made for Trento.\n\nThe Italian regular forces were defeated at Lissa on the sea, and made little progress on land after the disaster of Custoza. The sides signed an armistice by which Austria ceded Venetia to Italy, but this result was largely due to Prussia's successes on the northern front. Garibaldi's advance through Trentino was for nought, and he was ordered to stop his advance to Trento. Garibaldi answered with a short telegram from the main square of Bezzecca with the famous motto: \"Obbedisco!\" (\"I obey!\") .\nAfter the war, Garibaldi led a political party that agitated for the capture of Rome, the peninsula's ancient capital. In 1867, he again marched on the city, but the Papal army, supported by a French auxiliary force, proved a match for his badly armed volunteers. He was shot in the leg in the Battle of Mentana, and had to withdraw from the Papal territory. The Italian government again imprisoned him for some time, after which he returned to Caprera.\n\nIn the same year, Garibaldi sought international support for altogether eliminating the papacy. At an 1867 congress in Geneva he proposed: \"The papacy, being the most harmful of all secret societies, ought to be abolished.\"\nWhen the Franco-Prussian War broke out in July 1870, Italian public opinion heavily favored the Prussians, and many Italians attempted to sign up as volunteers at the Prussian embassy in Florence. After the French garrison was recalled from Rome, the Italian Army captured the Papal States without Garibaldi's assistance. Following the wartime collapse of the Second French Empire at the Battle of Sedan, Garibaldi, undaunted by the recent hostility shown to him by the men of Napoleon III, switched his support to the newly declared French Third Republic. On 7 September 1870, within three days of the revolution of 4 September in Paris, he wrote to the \"Movimento\" of Genoa, \"Yesterday I said to you: war to the death to Bonaparte. Today I say to you: rescue the French Republic by every means.\" Subsequently, Garibaldi went to France and assumed command of the Army of the Vosges, an army of volunteers.\n\nDespite being elected again to the Italian parliament, Garibaldi spent much of his late years in Caprera. He however supported an ambitious project of land reclamation in the marshy areas of southern Lazio. In 1879 he founded the \"League of Democracy\", which advocated universal suffrage, abolition of ecclesiastical property, emancipation of women, and maintenance of a standing army. Ill and confined to bed by arthritis, he made trips to Calabria and Sicily. In 1880, he married Francesca Armosino, with whom he previously had three children.\n\nOn his deathbed, Garibaldi asked for his bed to be moved to where he could gaze at the emerald and sapphire sea. On his death on 2 June 1882 at the age of almost 75, his wishes for a simple funeral and cremation were not respected. He was buried in his farm on the island of Caprera alongside his last wife and some of his children.\n\nIn 2012, Garibaldi's descendants announced that, with permission from authorities, they would have Garibaldi's remains exhumed to confirm through DNA analysis that the remains in the tomb are indeed Garibaldi's. Some anticipated that there would be a debate about whether to preserve the remains or to grant his final wish for a simple cremation. In 2013, personnel changes at the Ministry of Culture sidelined the exhumation plans. The new authorities were \"less than enthusiastic\" about the plan.\n\nGaribaldi wrote at least two novels, characterized by an anti-clerical tone:\nHe also wrote non-fiction:\n\nGaribaldi's popularity, skill at rousing the common people, and his military exploits are all credited with making the unification of Italy possible. He also served as a global exemplar of mid-19th century revolutionary nationalism and liberalism—but after the liberation of southern Italy from the Neapolitan monarchy, Garibaldi chose to sacrifice his liberal republican principles for the sake of unification.\n\nGaribaldi subscribed to the anti-clericalism common among Latin liberals, and did much to circumscribe the temporal power of the Papacy. His personal religious convictions are unclear to historians—in 1882 he wrote \"Man created God, not God created Man,\" yet in his autobiography he is quoted as saying, \"I am a Christian, and I speak to Christians – I am a true Christian, and I speak to true Christians. I love and venerate the religion of Christ, because Christ came into the world to deliver humanity from slavery,\" and, \"You have the duty to educate the people—educate the people—educate them to be Christians—educate them to be Italians ... Viva l'Italia! Viva Christianity!\" The Protestant minister Alessandro Gavazzi was his army chaplain.\n\nGiuseppe Garibaldi died at Caprera in 1882, where he was interred. Five ships of the Italian Navy have been named after him, including a World War II cruiser and the former flagship, the aircraft carrier \"Giuseppe Garibaldi\". Statues of his likeness, as well as the handshake of Teano, stand in many Italian squares, and in other countries around the world. On the top of the Janiculum hill in Rome, there is a statue of Garibaldi on horse-back. His face was originally turned in the direction of the Vatican (an allusion to his ambition to conquer the Papal States), but after the Lateran Treaty in 1929 the orientation of the statue was changed at the Vatican's request. A bust of Giuseppe Garibaldi is prominently placed outside the entrance to the old Supreme Court Chamber in the U.S. Capitol Building in Washington, DC, a gift from members of the Italian Society of Washington. Many theatres in Sicily take their name from him and are named Garibaldi Theatre.\n\nGaribaldi was a popular hero in Britain. In a book review in \"The New Yorker\" (9 and 16 July 2007) of a Garibaldi biography, Tim Parks cites the English historian, A. J. P. Taylor, as saying, \"Garibaldi is the only wholly admirable figure in modern history.\" The reputation stems from a monumental trilogy (1907–11), by G. M. Trevelyan. According to David Cannadine:\n\nIn 1865, English football team Nottingham Forest chose their home colours from the uniform worn by Garibaldi and his men in 1865. A school in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire was also named after him. The Garibaldi biscuit was named after him, as was a style of beard. The Giuseppe Garibaldi Trophy has been awarded annually since 2007 within the Six Nations rugby union framework to the victor of the match between France and Italy, in the memory of Garibaldi.\n\nGaribaldi, along with Giuseppe Mazzini and other Europeans, supported the creation of a European federation. Many Europeans expected that the 1871 unification of Germany would make Germany a European and world leader that would champion humanitarian policies. This idea is apparent in the following letter Giuseppe Garibaldi sent to Karl Blind on 10 April 1865:\n\nOn 18 February 1960, the American television series \"Dick Powell's Zane Grey Theatre\" aired the episode \"Guns for Garibaldi\" to commemorate the centennial of the unification of Italy. This was the only such program to emphasize the role of Italians in pre-Civil War America. The episode is set in Indian Creek, a western gold mining town. Giulio Mandati, played by Fernando Lamas, takes over his brother's gold claim. People in Indian Creek wanted to use the gold to finance a dam, but Mandati plans to lend support to General Garibaldi and Italian reunification. Garibaldi had asked for financing and volunteers from around the world as he launched his Redshirts in July 1860 to invade Sicily and conquer the Kingdom of Naples for annexation to what would finally become the newly-born Kingdom Of Italy with King Victor Emmanuel II.\n\nGaribaldi is a major character in two juvenile historical novels by Geoffrey Trease: \"Follow My Black Plume\" and \"A Thousand for Sicily\". They are both closely based on G. M. Trevelyan's accounts, the former set in the Roman Republic. Garibaldi is played by Raf Vallone in the 1952 film \"Red Shirts\", by Renzo Ricci in the 1961 film \"Garibaldi\", and by Giorgio Pasotti in the 2012 miniseries \"Anita Garibaldi\". Garibaldi was one of the most important characters of \"A Casa das Sete Mulheres\", a Brazilian serial of 2003, in which he was portrayed by Thiago Lacerda.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4248813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4248813", "title": "Gorakhnath", "text": "Gorakhnath\n\nGorakhnath (also known as Goraksanath, estimated c. early 11th century) was a Hindu yogi and saint who was the influential founder of the Nath Hindu monastic movement in India. He is considered as one of the two notable disciples of Matsyendranath. His followers are found in India at the place known as Garbhagiri which is in Ahmednagar in the state of Maharashtra. These followers are called yogis, \"Gorakhnathi\", \"Darshani\" or \"Kanphata\".\n\nThe details of his biography are unknown and disputed. He was one of nine saints also known as Navnath and is widely popular in Maharashtra, India. Hagiographies describe him as more than a human teacher and someone outside the laws of time who appeared on earth in different ages. Historians state Gorakhnath lived sometime during the first half of the 2nd millennium CE, but they disagree in which century. Estimates based on archaeology and text range from Briggs' 15th- to 12th-century to Grierson's estimate of the 14th-century.\n\nGorakhnath is considered a \"Maha-yogi\" (or great yogi) in the Hindu tradition. He did not emphasize a specific metaphysical theory or a particular Truth, but emphasized that the search for Truth and the spiritual life is a valuable and normal goal of man. Gorakhnath championed Yoga, spiritual discipline and an ethical life of self-determination as a means to reaching samadhi and one's own spiritual truths.\n\nGorakhnath, his ideas and yogis have been highly popular in rural India, with monasteries and temples dedicated to him found in many states of India, particularly in the eponymous city of Gorakhpur. Among urban elites, the movement founded by Gorakhnath has been ridiculed.\n\nHistorians vary in their estimate on when Gorakhnath lived. Estimates based on archaeology and text range from Briggs' 11th- to 12th-century to Baba Farid documents and Jnanesvari manuscripts leading Abbott to connect Gorakhnath to the 13th-century, to Grierson who relying on evidence discovered in Gujarat suggests the 14th-century. His influence is found in the numerous references to him in the poetry of Kabir and of Guru Nanak of Sikhism, which describe him as a very powerful leader with a large following, thereby suggesting he likely lived around the time these spiritual leaders lived in India.\n\nHistorical texts imply that Gorakhnath was originally a Buddhist in a region influenced by Shaivism, and he converted to Hinduism championing Shiva and Yoga. Gorakhnath led a life as a passionate exponent of ideas of Kumarila and Adi Shankara that championed the Yoga and Advaita Vedanta interpretation of the Upanishads. Gorakhnath considered the controversy between dualism and nondualism spiritual theories in medieval India as useless from practice point of view, he emphasized that the choice is of the yogi, that the spiritual discipline and practice by either path leads to \"perfectly illumined samadhi state of the individual phenomenal consciousness\", states Banerjea.\n\nThe hagiography on Gorakhnath describe him to have appeared on earth several times. The legends do not provide a time or place where he was born, and consider him to be superhuman. North Indian hagiographies suggest he originated from northwest India (Punjab, with some mentioning Peshawar). Other hagiographies on Gorakhnath in (Bengal) and Bihar suggest he originated from eastern region of India (Including Bangladesh).\n\nThese hagiographies are inconsistent, and offer varying records of the spiritual descent of Gorakhnath. All name Adinath and Matsyendranath as two teachers preceding him in the succession. Though one account lists five gurus preceding Adinath and another lists six teachers between Matsyendranath and Gorakhnath, current tradition has Adinath identified with Lord Shiva as the direct teacher of Matsyendranath, who was himself the direct teacher of Gorakhnath.\n\nThe legends in the Nath tradition assert that he traveled widely across the Indian subcontinent, and accounts about him are found in some form in several places including Nepal, Punjab, Sindh, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Assam, Tripura, Bengal, Odisha, Kathiawar(Gujarat), Maharashtra, Karnataka, and even Sri Lanka.\n\nThe Nath tradition states that its traditions existed before Gorakhnath, but the movement's greatest expansion happened under the guidance and inspiration of Gorakhnath. He produced a number of writings and even today is considered the greatest of the Naths. It has been purported that Gorakhnath wrote the first books on Laya yoga. In India there are many caves, many with temples built over them, where it is said that Gorakhnath spent time in meditation. According to Bhagawan Nityananda, the samadhi shrine (tomb) of Gorakhnath is at Nath Mandir near the Vajreshwari temple about one kilometer from Ganeshpuri, Maharashtra, India. According to legends Gorakhnath and Matsyendranath did penance in Kadri Temple at Mangalore, Karnataka. They are also instrumental in laying Shivlingam at Kadri and Dharmasthala.\n\nThe temple of \"Gorakhnath\" is also situated on hill called Garbhagiri near Vambori, Tal Rahuri; Dist Ahmednagar. There is also a famous temple of Gorakhnath in the state of Odisha.\n\nThe Gorakhnath Math is a monastery of the Nath monastic group named after the medieval saint, Gorakhnath (c. 11th century), of the Nath sampradaya. The math and town of Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh is named after him. The monastery and the temple perform various cultural and social activities and serve as the cultural hub of the city. The monastery also publishes texts on the philosophy of Gorakhnath.\n\nSome scholars associate the origins of Hatha yoga with the Nath yogis, in particular Gorakhnath and his guru Matsyendranath. According to British indologist James Mallinson, this association is false. In his view, the origins of hatha yoga should be associated with the Dashanami Sampradaya of Advaita Vedanta (Hinduism), the mystical figure of Dattatreya, and the Rāmānandīs.\n\nWhile the origins of Hatha yoga are disputed, according to Guy Beck – a professor of Religious Studies known for his studies on Yoga and music, \"the connections between Goraknath, the Kanphatas and Hatha yoga are beyond question\".\n\nThe Gurkhas of Nepal and Nepali people of India take their name from this saint. He has long been considered the \"rastradevata\" (lord of state) of Nepal, with his name appearing on numerous versions of Nepalese coins and currency notes. Gorkha, a historical district of Nepal, is named after him.\n\nThere is a cave with his paduka (footprints) and an idol of him. Every year on the day of Baisakh Purnima there is a great celebration in Gorkha at his cave, called Rot Mahotsav; it has been celebrated for the last seven hundred years.\n\nA legend asserts, state William Northey and John Morris, that a disciple of Machendra by name Gorakhnath, once visited Nepal and retired to a little hill near Deo Patan. There he meditated in an unmovable state for twelve years. The locals built a temple in his honor there, and it has since been remembered with\n\nKorakkar is one among the 18 Siddhars and also known as Goraknath amongst Navanathar. Agattiyar and Bogar were his gurus. His Jeeva samadhi temple is in Vadukupoigainallur of Nagapattinam district of Tamil Nadu. According to one account, he spent a portion of his growing-up years in the Velliangiri Mountains in Coimbatore.\n\nOther sanctums related with Korakkar are Perur, Thiruchendur and Triconamalli. Korakkar caves are found in Chaturagiri and Kolli Hills. Like other siddhas, Korakkar has written songs on Medicine, Philosophy, and Alchemy.\n\nThe Bengali Community located in these states and neighbouring country of Bangladesh have a sizable number of Yogi Brahmins (Also called Rudraja Brahmins/ Yogi Nath - who used surnames like Debnath, Debsharma, Nath, Ghoshal and Bhowmick) who have taken their name from this saint.\n\nAccording to Arvind-Pal Singh Mandair, a professor of Sikh Studies, Gorakhnath orders in Punjab were operating free community kitchens in Punjab when Guru Nanak founded Sikhism. Gorakhnath shrines have continued to operate a langar and provide a free meal to pilgrims who visit.\n\nRomola Butalia, an Indian writer of Yoga history, lists the works attributed to Gorakhnath as follows:\n\"Guru Gorakhnath is thought to have authored several books including the Goraksha Samhita, Goraksha Gita, Siddha Siddhanta Paddhati, Yoga Martanada, Yoga Siddhanta Paddhati, Yoga-Bija, Yoga Chintamani. He is believed to be the founder of the Nath Sampradaya and it is stated that the nine Naths and 84 Siddhas are all human forms created as yogic manifestations to spread the message of yoga and meditation to the world. It is they who reveal samadhi to mankind.\"\n\nThe \"Siddha Siddhanta Paddhati\" is a Hatha Yoga Sanskrit text attributed to Gorakhnath by the Nath tradition. According to Feuerstein (1991: p. 105), it is \"one of the earliest hatha yoga scriptures, the \"Siddha Siddhanta Paddhati\", contains many verses that describe the avadhuta\" (liberated) yogi.\n\nThe \"Siddha Siddhanta Paddhati\" text is based on an advaita (nonduality) framework, where the yogi sees \"himself in all beings, and all in himself\" including the identity of the individual soul (Atman) with the universal (Brahman). This idea appears in the text in various forms, such as the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "207981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=207981", "title": "Henry Fuseli", "text": "Henry Fuseli\n\nHenry Fuseli (German: Johann Heinrich Füssli; 7 February 1741 – 17 April 1825) was a Swiss painter, draughtsman and writer on art who spent much of his life in Britain. Many of his works, such as \"The Nightmare\", deal with supernatural subject-matter. He painted works for John Boydell's Shakespeare Gallery, and created his own \"Milton Gallery\". He held the posts of Professor of Painting and Keeper at the Royal Academy. His style had a considerable influence on many younger British artists, including William Blake.\n\nFuseli was born in Zürich, Switzerland, the second of 18 children. His father was Johann Caspar Füssli, a painter of portraits and landscapes, and author of \"Lives of the Helvetic Painters\". He intended Henry for the church, and sent him to the Caroline college of Zurich, where he received an excellent classical education. One of his schoolmates there was Johann Kaspar Lavater, with whom he became close friends.\n\nAfter taking orders in 1761 Fuseli was forced to leave the country as a result of having helped Lavater to expose an unjust magistrate, whose powerful family sought revenge. He travelled through Germany, and then, in 1765, visited England, where he supported himself for some time by miscellaneous writing. Eventually, he became acquainted with Sir Joshua Reynolds, to whom he showed his drawings. Following Reynolds' advice, he decided to devote himself entirely to art. In 1770 he made an art-pilgrimage to Italy, where he remained until 1778, changing his name from Füssli to the more Italian-sounding Fuseli.\n\nEarly in 1779 he returned to Britain, taking in Zürich on his way. In London he found a commission awaiting him from Alderman Boydell, who was then setting up his Shakespeare Gallery. Fuseli painted a number of pieces for Boydell, and published an English edition of Lavater's work on physiognomy. He also gave William Cowper some valuable assistance in preparing a translation of Homer. In 1788 Fuseli married (originally one of his models), and he soon after became an associate of the Royal Academy. The early feminist Mary Wollstonecraft, whose portrait he had painted, planned a trip with him to Paris, and pursued him determinedly, but after Sophia's intervention the Fuselis' door was closed to her forever. Fuseli later said \"I hate clever women. They are only troublesome\". In 1790 he became a full Academician, presenting \"Thor Battering the Midgard Serpent\" as his diploma work. In 1799 Fuseli was appointed professor of painting to the Academy. Four years later he was chosen as Keeper, and resigned his professorship, but resumed it in 1810, continuing to hold both offices until his death. As Keeper, he was succeeded by Henry Thomson.\n\nIn 1799 Fuseli exhibited a series of paintings from subjects furnished by the works of John Milton, with a view to forming a Milton gallery comparable to Boydell's Shakespeare gallery. There were 47 Milton paintings, many of them very large, completed at intervals over nine years. The exhibition proved a commercial failure and closed in 1800. In 1805 he brought out an edition of Pilkington's \"Lives of the Painters\", which did little for his reputation.\n\nAntonio Canova, when on his visit to England, was much taken with Fuseli's works, and on returning to Rome in 1817 caused him to be elected a member of the first class in the Academy of St Luke.\n\nAs a painter, Fuseli favoured the supernatural. He pitched everything on an ideal scale, believing a certain amount of exaggeration necessary in the higher branches of historical painting. In this theory he was confirmed by the study of Michelangelo's works and the marble statues of the Monte Cavallo, which, when at Rome, he liked to contemplate in the evening, relieved against a murky sky or illuminated by lightning.\n\nDescribing his style, the 1911 edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" said that:His figures are full of life and earnestness, and seem to have an object in view which they follow with intensity. Like Rubens he excelled in the art of setting his figures in motion. Though the lofty and terrible was his proper sphere, Fuseli had a fine perception of the ludicrous. The grotesque humour of his fairy scenes, especially those taken from \"A Midsummer-Night's Dream\", is in its way not less remarkable than the poetic power of his more ambitious works.\n\nThough not noted as a colourist, Fuseli was described as a master of light and shadow. Rather than setting out his palette methodically in the manner of most painters, he merely distributed the colours across it randomly. He often used his pigments in the form of a dry powder, which he hastily combined on the end of his brush with oil, or turpentine, or gold size, regardless of the quantity, and depending on accident for the general effect. This recklessness may perhaps be explained by the fact that he did not paint in oil until the age of 25.\nFuseli painted more than 200 pictures, but he exhibited only a small number of them. His earliest painting represented \"Joseph interpreting the Dreams of the Baker and Butler\"; the first to excite particular attention was \"The Nightmare\", exhibited in 1782. He painted two versions, shown in the Nightmare article. Themes seen in \"The Nightmare\" were repeated in his 1796 painting, \"Night-Hag visiting the Lapland Witches\".\n\nHis sketches or designs numbered about 800; they have admirable qualities of invention and design, and are frequently superior to his paintings. In his drawings, as in his paintings, his method included deliberately exaggerating the proportions of the human body and throwing his figures into contorted attitudes. One technique involved setting down arbitrary points on a sheet, which then became the extreme points of the various limbs. Notable examples of these drawings were made in concert with George Richmond when the two artists were together in Rome. He rarely drew the figure from life, basing his art on study of the antique and Michelangelo. He produced no landscapes—\"Damn Nature! she always puts me out,\" was his characteristic exclamation—and painted only two portraits.\n\nMany interesting anecdotes of Fuseli, and his relations to contemporary artists, are given in his \"Life\" by John Knowles (1831). He influenced the art of Fortunato Duranti.\n\nIn 1788 Fuseli started to write essays and reviews for the \"Analytical Review\". With Thomas Paine, William Godwin, Joseph Priestley, Erasmus Darwin, Mary Wollstonecraft, and others interested in art, literature and politics, Fuseli frequented the home of Joseph Johnson, a publisher and prominent figure in radical British political and intellectual life. He also visited Allerton Hall in Liverpool, the home of William Roscoe.\n\nWhen Louis XVI was executed in France in 1793, Fuseli condemned the revolution as despotic and anarchic, although he had first welcomed it as a sign of \"an age pregnant with the most gigantic efforts of character\".\n\nHe was a thorough master of French, Italian, English and German, and could write in all these languages with equal facility and vigour, although he preferred German as the vehicle of his thoughts. His principal work was his series of twelve lectures delivered to the Royal Academy, begun in 1801.\n\nHis pupils included John Constable, Benjamin Haydon, William Etty, and Edwin Landseer. William Blake, who was 16 years his junior, recognized a debt to him, and for a time many English artists copied his mannerisms.\n\nAfter a life of uninterrupted good health he died at the house of the Countess of Guildford on Putney Hill, at the age of 84, and was buried in the crypt of St Paul's Cathedral. He was comparatively wealthy at the time of his death.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48161313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48161313", "title": "Hook (Once Upon a Time)", "text": "Hook (Once Upon a Time)\n\nCaptain Killian \"Hook\" Jones is a fictional character in ABC's television series \"Once Upon a Time\". He is portrayed by Irish actor/musician Colin O'Donoghue, who became a series regular in the second season after making recurring appearances and became a fan favorite since his debut. He is based on the character from J. M. Barrie's play, \"Peter and Wendy\".\n\nIn the Enchanted Forest, Killian Jones is the younger brother of Liam Jones. As children, their father abandoned them and sold them into servitude to Captain Silver. However, with the help of the god Hades, the two escape servitude and become crew members of the \"Jewel of the Realm\". In service to a corrupt king, the two were sent to Neverland to retrieve a certain plant called dreamshade. Killian is reluctant to follow orders after Peter Pan informs them it is poisonous. A stubborn Liam is ultimately killed by the plant. Devastated by his brother's death, Jones grew bitter, blaming the king for his brother's death. Rechristening the vessel the \"Jolly Roger\", Jones became a ruthless pirate. Some time after, he seduces away the wife of Rumplestiltskin, Milah. When Rumplestiltskin tries to persuade Jones to have mercy, the pirate holds a sword to his throat and taunts him about his actions, which he deems cowardly. However, after becoming possessed with an entity known as the Dark One, Rumplestiltskin seeks out Jones, wishing to continue their duel. In this fight, Jones's life is saved by Milah, who opts to make a deal with her ex-husband. However, Rumplestiltskin is unable to forgive her for abandoning their son Baelfire, so he kills her. When Jones tries to exact revenge, Rumplestiltskin cuts off his hand, which he replaces with the hook he unsuccessfully used to kill the Dark One. From this point on, Jones became known as Captain Hook. Upon taking William Smee as his first mate, Hook returns to Neverland, as this would provide him with time to find a way to kill Rumplestiltskin. Shortly after his arrival, Hook gives shelter to Baelfire, who has arrived in Neverland and is on the run from Peter Pan. He forms an unlikely friendship with him, until Baelfire learns that his mother ran away with Hook, abandoning him. He is further enraged when he learns that Hook had been planning to use him to kill his father, beginning to realize that Hook is not so different from the man he wishes to kill. In response, Hook hands Bae over to the Lost Boys, the beings who serve Peter Pan.\n\nFlashbacks have revealed very little about Hook's past in Neverland. The earliest known event after his separation from Baelfire is Hook's meeting the exiled fairy Tinker Bell, with whom he shares his reasons for desiring revenge: the Dark One killed the woman he loved. In doing so, Hook also shares his philosophy on how he would risk his life for just two things: love or revenge. Later, it is revealed that among his duties as Pan's servant, Hook smuggled food from the Enchanted Forest into Neverland. During one of these voyages, Hook was nearly killed by a mermaid; however, the mermaid went against her father's wishes and spared his life. In gratitude, Hook offered the mermaid in question, Ursula, passage away from her father Poseidon. However, after Poseidon takes away Hook's chance at revenge, Hook breaks his word and steals Ursula's singing voice, so that Poseidon would be unable to use it against sailors. Likely around this same time, Hook killed knights who worked for King George in order to steal the King's treasure. Then he killed their prisoner Robert since \"dead men tell no tales.\" At some point, around the early 1980s, Hook made a deal with Pan and escaped Neverland.\n\nUpon returning home, he seeks out a prisoner named Belle (who had been the Dark One's prisoner for a time). However, after realizing that Belle had no knowledge or desire to kill Rumpelstiltskin, Hook knocks her unconscious and turns to leave. Before he can, however, he is intercepted by Queen Regina, who promises that she can help Hook kill the Dark One. In exchange, Hook is to dispose of her mother Cora in Wonderland. In order to test him for weakness, the Queen revealed to him that his father still lived and ordered Hook to kill him. Though the pirate was at first resistant, he eventually murdered his father in cold blood upon realizing that he had tried to replace the sons he abandoned with a new son, also named Liam. The Queen's test eventually proved pointless, as while in Wonderland, Cora used Hook's own weakness against him. Hook betrayed Regina and forged an alliance with Cora, as Regina's deal would involve amnesia. As Cora points out, it would be difficult for Hook to kill someone he cannot remember. When the Dark Curse is activated, Cora protects them both and part of the Enchanted Forest with a barrier spell, frozen in time for twenty-eight years.\n\nAfter this time period, the curse's power begins to weaken and time begins to move forward again. During this time, Hook is reached out by Captain Nemo, a sailor who seeks to ease Hook's pain and help him find a new family among Nemo's crew. However, while aboard the \"Nautilus\", Hook learns that Nemo's first mate is none other than his half-brother Liam. Upon learning Hook is responsible for their father's death, Liam tries to kill the pirate, but ultimately shoots Nemo instead. Hoping to save Nemo, Liam travels to the Mysterious Island, where time stands still, and Hook returns to the \"Jolly Roger\" to wait out the rest of the curse. After the curse has broken completely, Hook encounters Emma Swan and Snow White in the Enchanted Forest. Working with Aurora and Mulan, Emma and Snow counter Hook and Cora's attempts to follow them into Storybrooke. However, Hook had captured a magic bean from a giant he and Swan encountered previously, a bean which is used to carry him and Cora into Storybrooke. While in Storybrooke, Hook confronts Rumplestiltskin (known in this land as Mr. Gold) and robs him from his chance to return to his son. After he is thwarted by Belle and Gold, he tracks them down at the town line and shoots Belle. Belle falls across the town's border and loses her memory again. After he is betrayed by Regina and Cora (who decide to use the Dark One's dagger for themselves), Hook flees into the Land Without Magic and strikes Gold with dreamshade, the same poison which killed his brother. After realizing that Gold's life was spared in a deal made with Snow White, Hook agrees to work with Greg Mendell and Tamara, two of Pan's agents. Per their plan, he forges an alliance with Regina, then betrays her, so they can capture her. However, upon realizing that Greg and Tamara's plan would involve his death and the deaths of everyone else in Storybrooke, Hook betrays them and allies with his former enemies. Though he originally attempted to do the honorable thing and help save the town, when the plan offered by the townspeople seems to have little hope of success, he steals the magic bean to use for himself. However, upon learning of Baelfire's supposed death, he returns to honor his memory. Afterward, he journeys with Gold, Regina, and the heroes to Neverland to rescue Henry.\n\nIn Neverland, Hook becomes the group's guide. Though Hook’s original goal in rescuing Henry had been to honor Baelfire, over time he begins to develop real feelings for Emma, and after rescuing her father David from death, he realized that he had fallen in love with her. This grew more confusing when it was learned that Baelfire was still alive. As such, a love triangle which formed between Hook, Baelfire, and Emma nearly drove a wedge in their plans. However, Hook and Baelfire managed to reconcile in time rescue Henry from Pan. Once in Storybrooke, Hook agrees to step aside, so Emma and Baelfire (Henry's parents) can have a chance to get back together. After Pan tries to reenact the Dark Curse, Hook is present when his old foe is killed by his nemesis: Pan's son, Rumplestiltskin. With Pan destroyed, Regina succeeds in reversing his curse, sending Hook and the other inhabitants back to the Enchanted Forest, while Emma and Henry escape to New York City with new memories. While in the Enchanted Forest, Hook tries unsuccessfully to return to his old ways. But after betraying the mermaid Ariel to get his ship back, Hook is consumed with guilt. After a new curse is cast by Snow White in order to combat Zelena, the Wicked Witch of the West, Hook journeys to relocate Emma, in hopes of redeeming himself. After relocating Emma, Hook restores her memories with a potion and returns to Storybrooke with Emma and Henry to save Storybrooke from Zelena. While in Storybrooke, Hook is cursed by Zelena, who wishes to rob Emma of her powers. Using a resurrected Rumplestiltskin in her thrall, Zelena orchestrates a series of events which lead to Hook's inadvertently doing just that. Regina possesses enough light magic to stop Zelena for a time. However, after she is nearly killed by Gold, she opens a time portal, which Hook and Emma fall through. While in the Enchanted Forest, Hook and Emma inadvertently interrupt the meeting of Emma's parents: Snow White and Prince \"James\" David. With the help of Rumplestiltskin, Hook and Emma fix their mistake, but inadvertently rescue Marian, who was to die. To fix this mistake, Hook and Emma plan to bring Marian to the present, though they inadvertently bring Zelena instead (as the Wicked Witch had killed Marian and took her form). While in the Dark Castle, Emma uses her magic to reopen the portal to the present and begins a relationship with Hook, after he reveals he traded his ship for her.\n\nUpon returning to the present, Hook becomes enthralled in a deal with Gold, after he is deceived by the Dark One. Through the course of Storybrooke's battle against the former Queen Ingrid, Hook serves Gold in gathering more magic for himself. After Hook tries to prevent the Dark One from absorbing Emma's magic, Gold rips out Hook's heart and controls him. Through this, Gold forces Hook to suck the fairies into the immortal sorcerer Merlin's hat. After Ingrid sacrifices herself to stop her own curse, Hook is taken by Gold to be sacrificed in the ceremony that would sever the connection between him and his dagger. He is rescued by the timely arrival of Belle, who has taken possession of the real dagger. Later on, Hook works with Belle to find a spell to release the fairies imprisoned in the hat, inadvertently also releasing the Chernabog. The beast is eventually defeated with the help of Ursula and Cruella de Vil, who have made an alliance with Gold. When it is revealed that Gold, Ursula, and Cruella have not only formed an alliance but have resurrected Maleficent, Hook decides to make things right with Ursula. After her singing voice is restored, with the help of Ariel and Poseidon, Ursula fills Hook in on the rest of Gold's plan: to turn Emma dark. This plan is eventually done through Isaac Heller, the Author, who creates an alternate reality which robs heroes of their happy endings. In this reality, a cowardly Hook aids Emma and Henry on their quest to restore their old reality. In a fight against the evil Prince Charming, Hook is killed. However, when the alternate universe is undone, Hook's life is restored. Upon returning to Storybrooke, Gold's life is nearly drained by his own darkness. In hopes of preventing this, Merlin's apprentice removes Gold's darkness, trying to store it in his master's hat. The hat is not strong enough to contain it, and the darkness escapes. Though it originally targets the Apprentice, he is spared briefly by Emma, who expels it outside. However, when the darkness chooses Regina as its host, Emma selflessly accepts her role as the new Dark One, pleading with her parents and Hook to help remove her darkness.\n\nWith a combination of the powers of Regina and Zelena, Hook and the others are transported to the Enchanted Forest, where they are reunited with Emma. It is Hook who prevents Emma from coldly killing the Scottish princess Merida in a moment of desperation. In Camelot, Hook and the others search for Merlin to help save Emma from her own darkness. Though they stalled by the deranged King Arthur, they eventually free Merlin. However, through Arthur's machinations, Merlin fails to revive Emma's goodness. After Emma passes her test and remains a hero, Hook and the others are betrayed by Zelena, who helps Arthur bind Merlin to the control of Excalibur, forcing him to abandon Emma in her time of need. Now under Arthur's control, Merlin holds Emma's family captive. Though Emma manages to free her family, Hook receives a fatal wound from Excalibur. In desperation to not lose another love, Emma uses her dark magic to tether Hook to Excalibur, making him another Dark One. Though Hook initially tried to fight the Darkness, he was eventually unable to resist his renewed thirst for vengeance. In determination to return to Storybrooke to kill Rumplestiltskin, Hook kills Merlin and uses his heart to enact the Dark Curse. Guilt-ridden over what she had done, Emma confronts Hook and steals his and everyone else’s memories. When Hook awoke back in Storybrooke, he remembered nothing of the last six weeks. While in Storybrooke, Hook tries to break Emma's curse through true love's kiss, as Belle tried years before with Rumplestiltskin. As before, this plan fails. A short while later, Emma tricks Hook into giving her his sword - the main ingredient she needs to reawaken Gold, who she plans to use to remove Excalibur. In this conversation, Hook takes responsibility for his past villainy, condemns his actions, and praises the man Rumplestiltskin once was as a man who was just \"trying to keep his family together.\" In his mind, Rumplestiltskin became a monster, but Hook changed for the better. Eventually, Emma’s plan comes to fruition when she kidnaps Hook and Zelena, revealing her plan to kill the Wicked Witch after endowing her with the Darkness. The plan goes awry when Zelena restores her and Hook’s memories. Upon recalling what Emma did to him, Hook immediately renews his plot to revive every Dark One and kill Rumplestiltskin. However, after a confrontation with Emma and Regina, Hook has a crisis of conscience and turns on the Dark Ones. Subsequently, Hook sacrifices his life to destroy the Darkness once and for all. However, upon the discovery that Gold has betrayed Hook to take back his power, Emma blackmails him into helping her get into the Underworld, so that she may launch a mission to revive him.\n\nIn the Underworld, Hook is tortured by Hades. However, with the help of Milah, Emma rescues Hook from the Lord of the Underworld. Returning to the Underworld's replica of Snow and David's apartment, Hook confronts Gold about taking his sacrifice away, but lets it go for now, since he believes Gold helped save his life. When Emma tried to split her heart in order to share it with Hook, it is impossible. Returning to the cemetery, the heroes discover that Hades has chosen Emma, Regina, and Snow as the souls who will have to remain in the Underworld. Later, a guilt-ridden Hook informs Emma that he cannot return with Emma, even if they do defeat Hades, as he no longer believes himself worthy of her. However, after confronting his brother about his betraying the heroes to Hades and another betrayal centuries earlier, Hook forgives Liam and helps him move on. Afterward, Hook agrees to help defeat Hades and return to Storybrooke with Emma.\n\nHowever, it turns out that she cannot give him half of her heart, as his body has decomposed too much in the absence of his soul. They attempt to find ambrosia to restore his flesh to normal, but find Hades chopped down the tree. He agrees to resolve his unfinished business, promising to not let it be Emma. When King Arthur is murdered by Hades, Hook teams up with him to find his weakness. They find the pages Hades had tried to keep from them, which tells of his weakness. Hook manages to send them to Emma through Henry's book, so that she may defeat Hades. Hook then proceeds to move on, as defeating Hades was his unfinished business and finds himself in Olympus. There, Zeus rewards him for his actions by reuniting him with Emma. However, it had not been Emma who defeated Hades, but the god's true love: Zelena, who realized Hades cared more about his own power than her. However, it was too late to prevent Hades's cold murder of Robin Hood, Regina's true love.\n\nAt Robin's funeral in the season finale, Emma tries to delicately break it to Regina that Hook has returned, but as Gold tethers part of the Olympian Crystal to the magic in Storybrooke, Hook hastily runs in to make sure everyone is alright. Regina quickly puts aside her feelings and goes with the heroes to find out what Gold's plan is. After Henry and Violet run off to destroy magic, Emma and Regina join together to rescue him. However, due to Gold's machinations, magic in Storybrooke has become unstable. As Zelena uses Merlin's wand to return the people from Camelot, Merida, and the Merry Men home, another portal traps Hook, Snow, David and Zelena on the Mysterious Island Nemo and Liam had fled to years before: the Land of Untold Stories. There, they run into Dr. Henry Jekyll and his evil alter-ego Mr. Hyde. Initially, Hyde believes the heroes to be in the employ of Gold, whom he despises, and holds them captive. With the help of Jekyll, the heroes escape and assist Jekyll in creating a serum which separates Hyde from himself. With the help of Henry and the Dragon, the heroes manage to return to the Land Without Magic with Jekyll.\n\nAs the heroes return to Storybrooke, they learn that Hyde has arrived with several beings from the Land of Untold Stories. Shortly upon his arrival, the heroes manage to imprison Hyde in the asylum. During this time, Hook begins to suspect that something is up with Emma, but the Savior is reluctant to tell him as she does not want to cause him concern. Instead, she voices her fears to Archie Hopper. In the episode \"The Other Shoe,\" after Hook and Emma help Cinderella and her stepsister Clorinda against Lady Tremaine and the Evil Queen (newly separated from Regina), Emma puts her fears aside, and Hook moves into her house. During this time, as Gold tries to force Belle to share their child with him, Hook offers her asylum aboard his ship, out of guilt for having tried to kill her several times in the past. Ultimately, it is learned that Jekyll is not so different from Hyde. The Doctor manages to slip under the heroes' radar and get close to Belle, whom he hopes to kill, since he blames Rumplestiltskin for the death of Mary Lydgate. Hook manages to arrive in time and kill Jekyll. As Jekyll dies, so too does Hyde.\n\nLater on, Hook learns that among the many people from the Land of Untold Stories who have returned are Nemo and his half-brother Liam. Believing Nemo dead, Liam seeks vengeance against Hook for both the deaths of Nemo and their father. On board the \"Nautilus\", Hook is nearly killed by Liam, but is rescued by Henry, who begins to look at Hook as a surrogate father. Hook knocks Liam unconscious and manages to escape. Back on land, Hook and Liam mend their differences, as the latter learns that his brother is not the same man he was when he killed Brennan Jones. They are further able to reconcile when they discover that the doctors at Storybrooke General Hospital managed to save Nemo's life. However, as time wore on, the citizens of Storybrooke become plagued by attacks from the Evil Queen, who cannot be killed so long as Regina lives. As he and Emma help combat against the Queen, they also try to prevent her visions of her own death from coming true by forming an alliance with a former Savior, Aladdin. However, Aladdin too became a problem, as after becoming a genie, it was the Queen's wish that sent Emma to an alternate reality in which she had never been the Savior. Though Regina went on a quest to rescue her friend, Hook was now separated from the woman he loved. At this same time, the man destined to kill Emma arrived in Storybrooke: Gideon, the son of Hook's nemesis Rumplestiltskin, as well as the younger brother of Emma's ex-boyfriend. After training under the Black Fairy, Gideon returned, neutralized the Evil Queen, and sought out his parents.\n\nAfter Emma's return and subsequent defeating of Gideon, Hook consults with Archie about the prospect of seeking David's approval for Emma's hand in marriage. In order to do so, Hook agrees to help David learn who murdered his father. After stealing magic from Emma, they learn that David's father's last known location was in Pleasure Island, a place in the Enchanted Forest Hook recalled having dealings with Neverland. This leads them to August Booth, who spent time there as a puppet before being made real. August reveals that, contrary to what David thought, Robert was sober when he died and had left to retrieve James. From this, David deduces that King George had ordered his father's death. When Hook attempts to stop David from exacting vengeance, the Prince handcuffs him to a bike rack. However, Hook manages to work his way free in time to stop David from killing George in his cell. Afterward, Hook receives David's approval. However, before he could propose to Emma, Hook receives some missing pages from Henry's book from August. From these missing pages, Hook recognizes a picture of David's father as Robert, a man he killed years before. Horrified at the realization that he killed Emma's grandfather, Hook changes his mind about proposing and pockets the ring.\n\nAfter conferring with Dr. Hopper, Hook ultimately decides to tell Emma what he just found out so as to build an honest relationship with her. However, before he can muscle up the courage, Emma comes to him and reveals that she found the ring in Hook's things. Unwilling to tarnish the happy mood Emma's in with the dark truth, Hook kneels down and proposes, receiving an affirmative answer in return. Still guilty, he meets Nemo at the docks and after conferring with him about forgiveness, decides to burn his memories with a dreamcatcher. Emma catches him and is angry over him keeping secrets, ending their engagement until he can learn to change. He decides to go on an adventure with Nemo, in order to once again become the man that Emma needs, however after a talk with Snow on the docks who reminds him even the Evil Queen can get a happy ending, changes his mind and wants to go back to Emma. However, Gideon forcefully banishes him and keeps Emma's tears as a barrier to stop him from returning to Storybrooke.\n\nTrapped on the Nautilus with Nemo's crew, he attempts to find kraken blood to get back to Storybrooke, but ends up saving Aladdin and Jasmine from it instead. They try to track down Jafar, and end up on Hangman's island, before which he exchanges goodbyes with Nemo and Liam. On Hangman's Island he meets Ariel and inadvertently sets Jafar free, however Jasmine is able to defeat him and restore Agrabah. Ariel lends him a shell phone which he uses to contact Emma and let her know that he is fighting his way back to her. He later tracks down Blackbeard and challenges him to a game of cards for a magic bean, and if suffering loss, agrees to hand over the Jolly Roger. He loses intentionally, and uses the bean to go to Storybrooke with Blackbeard, but ends up in Neverland instead due to Gideon's barrier. Blackbeard abandons him to the Lost Boys (the ones who remained behind after season 3), however Tiger Lily is able to save him before he is killed. She informs him of a great darkness on the horizon that can only be defeated by the Savior, which Hook realizes in shock is Emma. He agrees to bring back half of a magic wand that will aid Emma by using his shadow. The Lost Boys hold on to him before he can escape, but his shadow is able to escape with the wand and give it to Emma. Hook is about to be executed when Emma uses pixie dust from her mother to save Hook and return him to Storybrooke. He and Emma make amends, after which he proposes once again, receiving a \"yes\" in return. He is the first to drink from the goblet holding a sleeping curse that will break Snow and Charming's curse set by the Evil Queen, and also makes amends with Emma's father.\n\nHook and Emma enjoy a morning together before being interrupted by Snow's wedding plans. Afterward he gives the half wand to Regina so she could cast a locator spell to find the other half, and seeks out wedding venues with Emma, her parents, and Henry, per Snow's request. However, afterwards he and Emma agree that they will marry when the time is right, not when the Black Fairy is still at large. Hook helps the Charmings find the other half wand at Granny's, and later that night asks Henry to be his best man for the wedding the next day, thinking the Black Fairy has been defeated by Gold. As he prepares, he is devastated to find out the Black Fairy is still at large and Emma plans on facing her alone. He knocks out Gold with dreamshade to buy Emma some time, but the Black Fairy saves her son. He later appears frozen as the Black Fairy nearly kills Emma, but Emma is able to stop her with a song in her heart and save her family. In the past, it is shown he met Snow and Charming when they inadvertently set off a spell which made everyone burst into song in Misthaven. He sang about revenge on the Dark One, and when realizing they have him in their dungeon, agrees to give them safe passage on his ship so they could confront the Evil Queen.\n\nHe later marries Emma, realizing they both want to go through with the wedding regardless of villainous threats. He rejoices with the rest of the town with song and dance, but as the clock strikes 6 the town is engulfed with the Black Fairy's curse.\n\nHook is sent back to the Enchanted Forest with Snow, David, Regina and Zelena. There they realize all the realms, including Oz and Agrabah, are crumbling and fading into nonexistence because the Black Fairy has wiped Emma's belief in them. Making Emma believe again becomes his first priority and he climbs the beanstalk with David in hopes of finding a magic bean, the same one he and Emma had climbed in season 2 on their first adventure. Him and David manage to find a bean but are chased away by a dragon hiding in the giants' castle. They attempt to escape down the beanstalk, but the world is still crumbling and Hook loses his grip and falls. The beanstalk also falls, pulling David with it. However, Snow manages to find both of them from under the wreckage and pushes Hook to go back to Emma. He makes it back to Regina and Zelena, tells them of his plan, but the magic in the bean is already fading. The Enchanted Forest continues to crumble until they are trapped in the center of the castle, when all of a sudden the destruction stops, as Henry has caused Emma to believe again. Rumplestiltskin kills the Black Fairy, and the group is sent back to Storybrooke. However, her last command for Gideon to kill the Savior remains and Hook is able to reunite with Emma just before she faces Gideon in the final battle. Gideon stabs Emma who willingly sacrifices herself, as Hook watches with horror, but Henry wakes her with true love's kiss. Hook reunites with Emma once more as a happy ending montage is shown for all—David decides to move into a farmhouse with Snow and take care of Neal, leaving Hook to become the new deputy of Storybrooke and ride off into the sunset in Emma's car. At the end, everyone is shown gathered at Granny's for dinner, as the book finally ends with the words: \"They lived happily ever after.\"\n\nYears after the final battle, Hook and Henry have kept up with sword-fighting practices as a teenage Henry prepares to leave home for a new adventure. Emma is worried about him going off on his own and missing more of his life but Hook reassures her and shows her a magical bottle that allows a message to be sent across realms. The bottle is given to Henry to take with him as he leaves.\n\nMany more years later, an adult Henry has found himself in trouble with Lady Tremaine in a new realm. Right before he's about to get captured, he uses the magic bottle to call on Hook, Emma, and Regina for help. Hook and Regina drop in through a portal and are able to free him. A little while later, Hook offers to go to the port to see if people have heard anything about Cinderella. There, he comes across the Hook from the Wish Realm, who had also been called over due to Henry's bottle message. The wish Hook explains that ever since meeting Emma in the Wish Realm years back, he had been traveling the realms in hopes of reuniting with her. He knocks out the original Hook in hopes of taking his place and getting a ride back to Storybrooke to be with Emma. The wish Hook finds Lady Tremaine, who physically transforms him into his younger form in exchange for helping getting rid of Henry.\n\nWhen the Wish Hook meets up with Henry again, Henry suspects that Hook hadn't been telling him the truth about Emma. Before he gets a real answer, Emma arrives through a portal and reveals to Henry that she's actually pregnant. As she and Henry celebrate the news, Wish Hook realizes his mistake and leaves them to find Hook and switch back. When he gets back to the port, he finds that Hook has already woken up and the two engage in a fight that ends with Wish Hook getting fatally stabbed. He tells Hook that he had intended to switch back because he has had a daughter himself, who was trapped in a prison by a vengeful witch, and did not want Hook to be separated from his child as well. Emma manages to heal Wish Hook and later tells him that he should travel with Henry to look for his daughter. After saying goodbye to Henry, Hook and Emma head through a portal back to Storybrooke.\n\nAfterwards, Henry and the other characters manage to foil a plot by Wish Rumple to wreak havoc on all the realms, and end up bringing them all to Storybrooke. Regina is elected \"The Good Queen\" of all the realms, and Hook and Emma attend her coronation with their baby girl Hope.\n\nIn season 6 episode \"Wish You Were Here\", the Evil Queen used one of her genie wishes to wish that Emma Swan had never become the savior. The wish created a whole new duplicate realm, known as the Wish Realm, which consists of alternate versions of the Enchanted Forest characters that come with different backstories for the 28 years after the point in which Regina never got to cast her curse. This includes an alternate version of Hook, who has an identical backstory to the original Hook's before that point in time, however, following that moment, he has been given an entirely different life and is his own separate character.\n\nIt is revealed in “A Pirate’s Life” that the main Hook on the series was now the wish realm version, as he is the one who has traveled with Henry and ended up being taken by the curse that resulted in Hyperion Heights.\n\nAfter Emma awakens in the realm from her spell caused by the Evil Queen's wish, she and the wish realm version of August head out to find a magical tree that he can use to build her a new wardrobe to take her back home to Storybrooke. Before they reach it, the two come across a wish Hook, who is old, fat, and unkempt. He intends to kidnap Emma for a reward but Emma manages to knock him out and later completes her mission, leaving the still-existing realm behind.\n\nAfter meeting Emma during her brief time in the Wish Realm, Hook believes that she is his true love and spends the following years traveling the realms in search of her. One day, he finds himself in the Magical Forest, after Henry's call for help ends up bringing over both living versions of \"Captain Hook.\" As he also heard Emma's name through the bottle, he assumes that she is also currently in the same realm and knocks out the original Hook, with plans to assume his identity and be the one who gets to go back with her. He finds Lady Tremaine, who he is revealed to have some sort of history with, and she agrees to transform him into the original Hook's physically younger form.\n\nHe meets back up with Henry, who then suspects that Hook is hiding something about Emma. As he's being confronted, Emma appears and reveals that she and the original Hook are expecting a baby. Hook feels guilty and tries to switch back, though not before the original Hook finds him and stabs him in the abdomen. As he's dying, Hook reveals that he was also a father and had a daughter who had been trapped in a prison by a vengeful witch. After initially being able to sneak in and play chess with her, his heart had been poisoned and he had lost track of her, with only a chess piece as his memory of her. He had hoped that an act of true love from Emma would be able to help him. The original Hook gets Emma to successfully heal him and when Henry decides that he wants to continue on his adventure, Emma suggests that Henry and Hook keep each other company. The original Hook and Emma say goodbye and leave the Magical Forest, and Hook begins his journey to finding his missing daughter with Henry and Regina in tow.\n\nSoon after, Hook, Regina and Henry meet Tiana and Ella (Jacinda) at a resistance camp formed to overthrow Lady Tremaine, and discuss plans about ambushing her castle.\n\nSome time many years later, Hook gets swept up in a curse and is given a new persona as Officer Rogers in the neighborhood of Hyperion Heights in Seattle. He gets promoted to a detective and is assigned to Weaver (a cursed Rumple) as his new partner. On his first day, he is tasked by Victoria and Weaver to frame Henry for theft, as Victoria continues to mess with Jacinda. He ultimately goes against them and protects Henry, though Weaver oddly ends up praising him for his moral code. Later, he meets up with Henry and tells him about a missing girl that he had tried to find earlier during his time as a cop, and remembers the time Emma healed him from his stab wound, although not her name. The two, along with Roni (a cursed Regina), decide to form an alliance against Victoria.\n\nSome time later he meets up with Henry and Roni and learns about a building commissioner that works for Victoria Belfrey, whom he later spies on and arrests. However, Weaver sets him free, assuring Rogers that the commissioner would spy on Belfrey for them now.\n\nWeaver and Rogers later discuss Tilly's (a cursed Alice) role in Rumple's case against Belfrey. Rogers is concerned for her well-being, and questions Weaver's treatment of her. Later, Tilly, regaining some of her pre-curse memories, shoots Weaver, saying Rumpelstiltskin had told her to do so. However, Weaver survives, and Rogers is there to meet him when he wakes up in the hospital, where he tells him to file a report, saying a masked man had shot him, and lets Tilly go. Rogers meets with Tilly in the waiting room and plays chess with her.\n\nIn a flashback, it is revealed that the Wish Realm version of Regina was not able to defeat Wish Realm Snow and Charming because they had stolen her magic. She appoints Hook with the task of finding a magic flower that could help both of them, which he does by the aid of Rapunzel. When he goes back to free her from her tower, she seduces him. In the morning, she shows herself to actually be Gothel and reveals that her daughter with Hook had been born by a magical speeding process initiated by the flower, which frees her from her prison. While she invites him to escape with her, he refuses, giving the Jolly Roger to Mr. Smee and staying behind to take care of his baby, who he names Alice after his mother.\n\nIn the same episode, Rogers is haunted by the missing case of Eloise Gardner, who he reveals to Henry disappeared the same night he gave up patrolling the neighborhood in favor of a drink. He asks Tilly if she has any information on her whereabouts, and she gives him a scrap of paper matching a drawing in Eloise's notebook and informs him that she died years ago. However, Rogers finds out it is actually Weaver's doing and Belfrey is involved, and frees Gothel who was trapped in Belfrey's tower, mistaking her for Eloise.\n\nLater, \"Eloise\" brings Rogers a cake to thank him, but it is hinted that she poisoned it when Roni (now awake as Regina) comes by and throws it in the trash. Rogers goes to meet Alice and brings her lunch and a chess set. In a flashback, it is shown that when Hook was with Regina and Henry at Tiana's resistance camp, he had reunited with Alice. However, he could not touch her as his heart had been poisoned, which causes Alice to run away in distress. She sends Ella and Henry back with her father's white chess knight.\n\nIn 2012, O'Donoghue was cast as Captain Hook/Killian Jones in the second season and was initially hired as a supporting character, but he was made a series regular before his first episode even aired. Hook always had an interest in the Savior, Emma Swan played by Jennifer Morrison but he then realizes this is the first time he felt love again ever since his first love, Milah died. He knew there was always something between them and then finally after many challenges, Emma and Killian become an item, and were confirmed as true love in \"Firebird\" when their love managed to pass the test and open the doors to the ambrosia, which as said earlier, only true love could pass this test. Many fans call their relationship \"Captain Swan.\" Christina Perri even dedicated her song \"The Words\" to this popular fictional couple. The couple has been nominated for People's Choice Awards best on-screen chemistry and Teen Choice Award's Best TV Liplock.\n\n"}
{"id": "2826893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2826893", "title": "James Nowlan", "text": "James Nowlan\n\nJames Nowlan (1862 – June 1924) was the President of the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) from 1901 to 1921 and is the longest serving president of the organisation. He was also a Sinn Féin representative and member of the Gaelic League. In 2009 he was named in the Sunday Tribune's list of the \"125 Most Influential People In GAA History\".\n\nNowlan was born in Monasterevin, County Kildare in 1862 and is listed in the local church as being baptised at Cowpasture, Monasterevin on 25 May 1862. His father, Patrick Nowlan, was an early member of the Irish Republican Brotherhood (IRB) and friend of James Stephens. Patrick Nowlan was a cooper from Kilkenny city and possibly moved from there to work at Cassidy's Whiskey in Monasterevin. James Nowlan also trained as a cooper.\n\nNowlan was a member of the Gaelic League, a lifelong supporter of the Irish language revival movement and a supporter of Sinn Féin from its foundation in 1905. In 1898 he was elected an alderman of Kilkenny Corporation. He used his time in this position to help promote the GAA, which had been set up 14 years prior and was a relatively new organisation at the time. In 1900 he became the first chairman of the Leinster Council of the GAA. He was elected President of the GAA nationally at the 1901 Congress held in September of that year. He would hold that position for twenty years - making him the longest serving president. During his time in office he attempted to steer the organisation on a more republican path.\n\nFollowing the Easter Rising, Nowlan was arrested by the British in May 1916 and interned without trial in Frongoch, Wales. In August of that year he was released and continued with his GAA and Sinn Féin duties. He publicly voiced support for the Irish Republican Army during the Anglo-Irish War in the 1920s.\n\nAt the 1921 Congress, held in March of that year, Nowlan retired as GAA President, and was appointed \"Honorary Life President\" of the association — the only person to be so honoured.\n\nNowlan died in June 1924 in his mid-70s. Nowlan Park, the GAA stadium in his native Kilkenny, was renamed in his honour three years later. He was buried in Glasnevin cemetery. There was no headstone on his grave until 2013 when the GAA erected a Celtic cross. In September 2016 the GAA unveiled a new trophy named The James Nowlan Cup to be presented to the All-Ireland under-21 hurling champions.\n"}
{"id": "29809016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29809016", "title": "Leila Janah", "text": "Leila Janah\n\nLeila Janah is the Founder and CEO of Samasource and LXMI, two companies that share a common social mission to end global poverty by giving work to people in need. She is also the author of \"Give Work: Reversing Poverty One Job at a Time\" and co-author of \"America's Moment: Creating Opportunity in the Connected Age\", a book by Rework America: A Markle Initiative.\n\nJanah was born on October 9, 1982 in Lewiston, New York, near Niagara Falls, and grew up in San Pedro, Los Angeles, California. She is the daughter of Indian immigrants, who came to the United States with nothing. Janah describes her childhood as being difficult, often due to a lack of financial security. As a teenager, Janah worked many jobs, including babysitting and tutoring. She attended the California Academy of Mathematics and Science. She won a scholarship at 17 through American Field Services, and convinced them to let her spend it teaching in Ghana where she spent 6 months during her senior year of high school. In Ghana, Janah taught English to young students in the village of Akuapem, many of whom were blind. Janah has cited this early experience as sparking her passion for working in Africa, and she continued to visit the continent during her time in college.\n\nJanah attended Harvard University, graduating in 2005 with a degree in African Development Studies. While at Harvard, Janah conducted fieldwork in Mozambique, Senegal and Rwanda and consulted to and authored papers for the World Bank's Development Research Group and on social and economic rights.\n\nUpon graduation, Janah worked as a management consultant with Katzenbach Partners , focusing on healthcare, mobile and outsourcing companies. One of Janah's first assignments with Katzenbach Partners was managing a call center in Mumbai. At the call center Janah met a young man who traveled each day by rickshaw from Dharavi, one of the largest slums in South Asia, to work at the center. Janah has cited this experience as sparking the inspiration for Samasource, the non-profit she founded in 2008.\nJanah left Katzenbach Partners in 2007 to become a visiting scholar at Stanford University with the Program on Global Justice, founded by law professor Joshua Cohen. That year, she co-founded Incentives for Global Health with Thomas Pogge, Leitner Professor of Philosophy and International Affairs at Yale, and Aidan Hollis, a Professor of Economics at the University of Calgary, which established a blueprint for incentivizing the development of new drugs for neglected diseases.\n\nIn 2008, Janah launched Samasource (then called Market for Change), an idea that was inspired by her time spent in Africa and her experience managing a call center in Mumbai. Samasource is a not-for-profit business with the mission to reduce global poverty by giving dignified online work to people living in poverty. Samasource uses an internet based model called microwork to break down large digital projects into smaller, easily trainable tasks for workers to complete at delivery centers. Samasource offers five services, including machine learning, data verification and image annotation. As of August, 2016, Samasource reports that it has impacted 32,265 people, which includes both direct Samasource workers and their dependents. Samasource also reports that their workers increase their income by 3.7x over the course of four years.\n\nJanah got the capital to start Samasource from winning $14,000 in a business-plan competition at Stanford. She raised an additional $30,000 in a European business plan competition. In 2009, Samasource was selected to participate in fbFund, a $10m seed fund to support developers and entrepreneurs. Janah got her first contract for Samasource with a company called Benetech, a non-profit social enterprise that provides technology solutions. Samasource has been named one of Fast Company's \"Most Innovative Companies\" and counts Walmart, Google and eBay among its clients.\n\nIn 2013, Janah founded Samaschool (previously SamaUSA), a program that moves people out of poverty by providing digital skills training and a connection to internet-based jobs that pay a living wage. Samaschool runs in-person programs in Arkansas, California, New York and Kenya, and also provides online classes that are available internationally. Samaschool courses train students in digital literary, workforce readiness and portfolio building.\n\nSamaschool started with a pilot program in the Bayview-Hunters Point neighborhood in San Francisco. The model originally focused on training students to perform digital work competitively, to prepare them for success on online work sites like oDesk and Elance. The program was first introduced in a 2011 TechCrunch article which attracted controversy for its assertion that Americans could compete with African and Asian workers who can afford to take assignments that pay lower fees. Samaschool has since shifted its focus to teach students the skills necessary to gain work in the gig economy. Samaschool is funded in part by the Robinhood Foundation.\n\nJanah founded Samahope in 2012, the first crowdfunding platform that directly funded doctors who provide life-changing medical treatments for women and children in poor communities. Samahope enabled anyone anywhere to directly fund doctors' life-changing medical treatments for women and children in need. Samahope was built on the belief that transparent funding mechanisms could help close the global surgery gap and ensure that all people have access to medical treatments Samahope combined with Johnson & Johnson's new global health platform, CaringCrowd, at the close of December 2015. Janah spoke about the decision to merge with Caring Crowd in a LinkedIn post, citing efficiency and branding as the two biggest factors.\n\nIn 2015, Janah co-founded LXMI, a for profit luxury skin care brand. Built on the idea of beauty in action™, LXMI employs marginalized women in the rural Nile Valley communities to harvest LXMI ingredients and reports that their producers earn 3x the average local wages. LXMI is named after the Hindu goddess of beauty and prosperity.\n\nLXMI was incubated at Samasource. Janah and Samasource are members of an LLC which owns LXMI, along with LXMI employees and investors. Currently, the jointly owned LLC owns 36% of LXMI, with Janah owning 24% and Samasource owning 12%. The LLC was set up for LXMI in order for Janah to donate the 1/3 of her shares back to Samasource in a way that would give Samasource oversight in the company. If LXMI pays a dividend or is acquired, Samasource would stand to benefit. Jones Day advised on the arrangement and referenced experience with other similar structures.\n\nJanah is a Young Global Leader of the World Economic Forum, a Director of CARE USA, a 2012 TechFellow, recipient of the inaugural Club de Madrid Young Leadership Award, and the youngest person to win a Heinz Award in 2014 when she received the 19th Annual Heinz Award in Technology, the Economy and Employment. She also received the Secretary’s Innovation Award for the Empowerment of Women and Girls from Hillary Clinton in 2012, and is a former Visiting Scholar at the Stanford University Program on Global Justice and Australian National University’s Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics. She is a recipient of the Rainer Arnhold and TEDIndia Fellowships, and serves on the San Francisco board of TechSoup Global and the Social Enterprise Institute.\n\nJanah was included as one of Elle Magazine's \"Women in Tech\" in 2016 and The New York Times T Magazine’s Five Visionary Tech Entrepreneurs Who Are Changing the World]” in 2015. She was also named a “Rising Star” on Forbes’ 30 Under 30 list in 2011, one of Fast Company’s “Most Creative People in Business” in 2012, and was profiled as one of Fortune’s “Most Promising Entrepreneurs” in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "1780998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1780998", "title": "Lists of university leaders", "text": "Lists of university leaders\n\nFor articles listing various university leaders around the world, please see individual national articles from the following countries:\n\n"}
{"id": "10542936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10542936", "title": "Luisa Battistati", "text": "Luisa Battistati\n\nLuisa Battistati was an Italian 19th-century woman who is recorded in American writer Sarah Josepha Hale’s \"Sketches of all distinguished women\" (1853) as a heroine of the insurrection against Austrian rule that had taken place in Lombardy known as the Five Days of Milan. The revolt took place during the period 18–22 March 1848 and was successful in expelling the Austrian garrison, commanded by Josef Radetzky, from the city. Radetzky would re-enter Milan on 6 August of that year, however, and Austria remained in control of the city until 1859.\n\nHale wrote:\n\nA native of Stradella, Sardinia, and a mantua-maker at Milan, [Luisa Battistati] displayed remarkable courage during the five days of the Revolution at Milan, in 1848. On Sunday, March 10th, she disarmed a cavalry soldier, though he carried a carbine. She placed herself at the head of the Poppietti bridge, and steadily continued there, fighting against the enemy during the 20th, 21st, and 22d days [of March], heading a valiant band of young men, and killing a Croate at every shot. She defended the large establishment at Vettabia, which contained 580 persons, being the edifice in which the widows and their children, and other females took refuge when Barbaressa stormed Milan. This young woman was, in 1850, married, and doing duty in the civic guard.\nHer entry in Henry Gardiner Adams’s \"A Cyclopaedia of Female Biography\" (1857) is identical down to the spelling, save for the statement that ‘[t]o this woman must be given a place in history, beside the heroine of Saragossa, and other examples of female intrepidity’, while the description of Battistati in Ellen Creathorne Clayton’s \"Female Warriors : Memorials of Female Valour and Heroism, from the Mythological Ages to the Present Era\" (1879) is a paraphrase of Hale’s text. She also appears in Jessica Amanda Salmonson’s \"The Encyclopedia of Amazons\" (1991).\n\n"}
{"id": "49934737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49934737", "title": "Lydia Brown", "text": "Lydia Brown\n\nLydia Brown (born 1993) is an Asian American autistic disability rights activist, writer, and public speaker who was honored by the White House in 2013. Brown is currently the chairperson of the Massachusetts Developmental Disabilities Council.\n\nWhile an undergraduate student at Georgetown University from 2011 until graduating in 2015, Brown was also a student organizer and advocate for disabled students on campus. Brown served as the first-ever Undersecretary of Disability Affairs for the Georgetown University Student Association, wrote and disseminated a citywide guide to resources for students with disabilities, designed a proposal for a Disability Cultural Center on campus, surveyed student government candidates on disability issues, organized a Twitter chat by Georgetown students with disabilities, and hosted and organized a Lecture & Performance Series on Disability Justice that featured talks with disability activists, scholars, and cultural workers including Karen Nakamura, Margaret Price, Leroy F. Moore Jr., Kassiane Asasumasu, Stephanie Kerschbaum, and Shain M. Neumeier.\n\nSince graduating from Georgetown, Brown is now a Public Interest Law Scholar at Northeastern University School of Law. In Massachusetts, Brown first wrote and introduced legislation in 2010 on autism and developmental disabilities training for law enforcement, including corrections officers, and has continued to lobby for passage of that bill.\n\nBrown worked as a policy analyst for the Autistic Self Advocacy Network, a national disability rights organization led by and for autistic people until 2015, and co-founded the Washington Metro Disabled Students Collective. Brown is also a former Patricia Morrissey Disability Policy Fellow at the Institute for Educational Leadership.\n\nIn 2011, Brown wrote a petition demanding school district-wide policy changes in Mercer County, Kentucky after viewing local news coverage of an incident in which Christopher Baker, a nine year old autistic student, was punished by being placed inside a large bag. The petition gained over 200,000 signatures and news coverage by the Associated Press and \"The Guardian\".\n\nIn 2013, Brown co-organized a protest outside the Food and Drug Administration White Oak Campus in Maryland against the Judge Rotenberg Center, which is known for its use of painful aversives as a form of behavioral modification on people with developmental disabilities, including many autistic people. Later, in 2014, Brown testified against the Judge Rotenberg Center's use of electric shock aversives at a Food and Drug Administration advisory panel hearing. Prior to the hearing, Brown submitted lengthy written testimony on behalf of TASH New England arguing that electric shock aversive devices should be banned as an ineffective and dangerous form of treatment. Brown maintains a living archive of documents and other resources related to the JRC on their website.\n\nThe Washington Peace Center selected Brown as the recipient of its 2014 Empowering the Future Youth Activist Award for their work with the Washington Metro Disabled Students Collective and the Autistic Self Advocacy Network.\n\nIn 2015, Brown was named a Top Thinker Under 30 in the Social Sciences by \"Pacific Standard\" and included on Mic's inaugural list of \"the next generation of impactful leaders, cultural influencers, and breakthrough innovators.\" Brown has lectured on neurodiversity; connections between trans, queer, and disability experiences; racial justice and the disability rights movement; and intersectionality at numerous colleges and universities, including Yale University, Bellevue College, University of Virginia, Grinnell College, College of William & Mary, and Vanderbilt University as part of the Inclusive Astronomy Conference. In 2015, Brown gave the keynote speech at the Students of Color Conference held in Yakima, Washington, and in 2016, Brown gave the keynote speech at the Queer I Am Leadership Symposium held at South Puget Sound Community College.\n\nAlongside E. Ashkenazy and Morénike Giwa-Onaiwu, Brown is the lead editor of \"All the Weight of Our Dreams,\" an anthology of art and writing entirely by autistic people of color published by the Autistic Women & Nonbinary Network in June 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40307724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40307724", "title": "Ma Ruifang", "text": "Ma Ruifang\n\nMa Ruifang(， Xiao'erjing: ; born 1942) is a Chinese author, scholar and professor at the School of Literature, Shandong University.\n\nMa was born in 1942 in Qingzhou, Shandong Province. Her grandfather Ma Defu () and father Ma Chuzhen () were doctors. She belonged to the Hui ethnic group. Her mother was educated. Ma read books in Yidu County Library () when she studied at primary school. She was accepted into Shandong University and graduated in 1965. In 1966,Mao Zedong launched the Cultural revolution and she was persecuted. In 1980, Ma started to study the literature of Pu Songling.\n\nMa became popular in China for her lectures on literature of Pu Songling in the CCTV-10 program \"Lecture Room\" in 2005.\n"}
{"id": "12553221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12553221", "title": "Mahabir Pun", "text": "Mahabir Pun\n\nMahabir Pun is a Nepalese teacher, social entrepreneur and an activist known for his extensive work in applying wireless technologies to develop remote areas of the Himalayas, also known as the Nepal Wireless Networking Project. \n\nBorn and raised in Nangi, a remote village in the mountainous district Myagdi District of western Nepal, Pun spent his childhood grazing cattle and sheep and attending a village school without paper, pencils, textbooks or qualified teachers. Traditionally, the local people had no education, and most men joined the British Gurkha army. Pun's life changed dramatically when his father, a retired Gurkha, took the remarkable step of moving the family to the southern plain of Nepal and investing their entire savings in his son's education. After finishing high school, Pun worked as a teacher for about 12 years in four schools, while supporting his brothers' and sisters' education. In 1989, after numerous applications to UK and US universities, he succeeded in gaining a partial scholarship to the University of Nebraska at Kearney, from which he graduated in 1996 with a bachelor's degree in Science Education. After graduation, he returned to his native village, twenty-four years after having left there as a child. It was in Nangi that he recognised the critical need for sustainable education, and began to formulate his goal of creating a high school to serve as a model for local educational and economic development. Pun founded the Himanchal High School with a special focus on computer education and other programmes with income-generating capacity. He then returned to the University of Nebraska for a master's degree in Educational Administration, which he completed in 2001.\n\nWhile in the United States of America, Pun had recognised that information technology had the potential to transform the education system and the economy of his village, and he had taken courses to acquire the skills needed to assemble, refurbish and use computers. On his return to Nepal, he successfully campaigned for the donation of used computers from Japan, Malaysia, Australia, Singapore, and the USA, and powered them with two small hydro generators (donated by Singaporean climbers on their way to Mount Everest) installed in a nearby stream. Pun began teaching computer classes to students and fellow teachers, but it proved impossible to establish a telephone connection to the nearest city, Pokhara, and the Internet. Pun e-mailed the BBC, asking for ideas. The BBC publicised his dilemma, and soon volunteers from Europe and the USA responded. In 2001, donors and volunteers helped him to rig a wireless connection between Nangi and the neighbouring village of Ramche, using small handmade TV dish antennae mounted in trees. Small grants soon led to the construction of improvised mountaintop relay stations and a link to Pokhara. By 2003, Nangi had a wireless connection to the Internet. Later, Pun brought in more used computers donated from abroad, distributed them to other schools in other villages, and began work to develop a wireless distance-learning project supported by income-generating ventures.\n\nPun's work on distance learning and online educational services constitutes the first attempt in Nepal to address the scarcity of qualified teachers through technology. He took steps to ensure the success and growth of his projects, by arranging for other teachers to attend a computer training course in Pokhara, starting economic projects to fund students' expenses and teachers' salaries, and by attracting hundreds of international volunteers with wide-ranging skills. He has since built a new cultural centre, and has developed communication links for yak farmers, as well as new ventures to hc international trekking and tour groups. He has, therefore, succeeded not just in creating a self-sustaining educational system, but also a range of new economic and social enterprises to support remote communities.\n\nMahabir Pun led the initiative to register a Nonprofit named \"Rashtriya Abiskar Kendra\" in 2012, widely termed as National Innovation Center in English. Primary objective to establish the Innovation center according to Mahabir is to foster research and developments for the economic development of the country.Mahabir worked with the government for funding of the project which did not happen and since July 2016, Mahabir is running a crowd funding campaign to fund National Innovation efforts. National Innovation Center crowd funding campaign plans to collect build a 10MW hydropower station, which according to the initiative would sustainably fund it's running cost. Mahabir has got social attraction with his donation of land for the National Innovation Center. The former prime minister of Nepal, Prachanda announced to hand NRS 15 millions to National Innovation Center.\n\nIn 2002, Pun was elected Ashoka Fellow by the Ashoka Foundation, the global association of leading social entrepreneurs. The Foundation noted Pun's contribution to overcoming the geographical isolation of many of the communities in which he works, with a new idea which could be replicated in other geographically isolated areas with few educational or economic opportunities.\n\nMahabir Pun was inducted in Internet Hall of Fame as an inductee in 2014 - \n\nIn 2004, Pun received the Overall Social Innovations Award from the Global Ideas Bank, aka the Institute for Social Inventions. They said, \"Using an inspired mix of solar power, tree-based relay systems, and wireless technology, the project is helping yak farmers stay in touch, families communicate and, with an expansion into distance learning, children to gain the education.\" \n\nIn 2007, Pun was awarded the Magsaysay Award, considered by some to be the Nobel Prize of Asia, in recognition of \"his innovative application of wireless computer technology in Nepal, bringing progress to remote mountain areas by connecting his village to the global village\". Pun is one of four Nepalis to receive the Magsaysay Award, and the only one to receive the Magsaysay Award for Community Leadership.\n\nLater in 2007, the University of Nebraska awarded Pun an honorary degree as Doctor of Humane Letters for his outstanding work for his country, Nepal.\n\nIn 2014 Pun was awarded the Jonathan B. Postel Service Award by the Internet Society.\n\nMahabir's center for Nepal Connection, Restaurant, Cafe and Idea sharing Place\n"}
{"id": "19638032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19638032", "title": "Mars (mythology)", "text": "Mars (mythology)\n\nIn ancient Roman religion and myth, Mars (, ) was the god of war and also an agricultural guardian, a combination characteristic of early Rome. He was second in importance only to Jupiter and he was the most prominent of the military gods in the religion of the Roman army. Most of his festivals were held in March, the month named for him (Latin \"Martius\"), and in October, which began the season for military campaigning and ended the season for farming.\n\nUnder the influence of Greek culture, Mars was identified with the Greek god Ares, whose myths were reinterpreted in Roman literature and art under the name of Mars. But the character and dignity of Mars differed in fundamental ways from that of his Greek counterpart, who is often treated with contempt and revulsion in Greek literature. Mars was a part of the Archaic Triad along with Jupiter and Quirinus, the latter of whom, as a guardian of the Roman people, had no Greek equivalent. Mars' altar in the Campus Martius, the area of Rome that took its name from him, was supposed to have been dedicated by Numa, the peace-loving semi-legendary second king of Rome. Although the center of Mars' worship was originally located outside the sacred boundary of Rome \"(pomerium)\", Augustus made the god a renewed focus of Roman religion by establishing the Temple of Mars Ultor in his new forum.\n\nAlthough Ares was viewed primarily as a destructive and destabilizing force, Mars represented military power as a way to secure peace, and was a father \"(pater)\" of the Roman people. In the mythic genealogy and founding myths of Rome, Mars was the father of Romulus and Remus with Rhea Silvia. His love affair with Venus symbolically reconciled the two different traditions of Rome's founding; Venus was the divine mother of the hero Aeneas, celebrated as the Trojan refugee who \"founded\" Rome several generations before Romulus laid out the city walls.\n\nThe importance of Mars in establishing religious and cultural identity within the Roman Empire is indicated by the vast number of inscriptions identifying him with a local deity, particularly in the Western provinces.\n\nMars may ultimately be a reflex of the Proto-Indo-European god Perkwunos, having originally a thunderer character. At least etymological Etruscan predecessors are present in Maris, though this is not universally agreed upon.\n\nLike Ares who was the son of Zeus and Hera, Mars is usually considered to be the son of Jupiter and Juno. However, in a version of his birth given by Ovid, he was the son of Juno alone. Jupiter had usurped the mother's function when he gave birth to Minerva directly from his forehead (or mind); to restore the balance, Juno sought the advice of the goddess Flora on how to do the same. Flora obtained a magic flower (Latin \"flos\", plural \"flores\", a masculine word) and tested it on a heifer who became fecund at once. She then plucked a flower ritually using her thumb, touched Juno's belly, and impregnated her. Juno withdrew to Thrace and the shore of Marmara for the birth.\n\nOvid tells this story in the \"Fasti\", his long-form poetic work on the Roman calendar. It may explain why the Matronalia, a festival celebrated by married women in honor of Juno as a goddess of childbirth, occurred on the first day of Mars' month, which is also marked on a calendar from late antiquity as the birthday of Mars. In the earliest Roman calendar, March was the first month, and the god would have been born with the new year. Ovid is the only source for the story. He may be presenting a literary myth of his own invention, or an otherwise unknown archaic Italic tradition; either way, in choosing to include the story, he emphasizes that Mars was connected to plant life and was not alienated from female nurture.\n\nThe consort of Mars was Nerio or Neriene, \"Valor.\" She represents the vital force \"(vis)\", power \"(potentia)\" and majesty \"(maiestas)\" of Mars. Her name was regarded as Sabine in origin and is equivalent to Latin \"virtus,\" \"manly virtue\" (from \"vir\", \"man\"). In the early 3rd century BC, the comic playwright Plautus has a reference to Mars greeting Nerio, his wife. A source from late antiquity says that Mars and Neriene were celebrated together at a festival held on March 23. In the later Roman Empire, Neriene came to be identified with Minerva.\n\nNerio probably originates as a divine personification of Mars' power, as such abstractions in Latin are generally feminine. Her name appears with that of Mars in an archaic prayer invoking a series of abstract qualities, each paired with the name of a deity. The influence of Greek mythology and its anthropomorphic gods may have caused Roman writers to treat these pairs as \"marriages.\"\n\nThe union of Venus and Mars held greater appeal for poets and philosophers, and the couple were a frequent subject of art. In Greek myth, the adultery of Ares and Aphrodite had been exposed to ridicule when her husband Hephaestus (whose Roman equivalent was Vulcan) caught them in the act by means of a magical snare. Although not originally part of the Roman tradition, in 217 BC Venus and Mars were presented as a complementary pair in the \"lectisternium\", a public banquet at which images of twelve major gods of the Roman state were presented on couches as if present and participating.\n\nScenes of Venus and Mars in Roman art often ignore the adulterous implications of their union, and take pleasure in the good-looking couple attended by Cupid or multiple Loves \"(amores)\". Some scenes may imply marriage, and the relationship was romanticized in funerary or domestic art in which husbands and wives had themselves portrayed as the passionate divine couple.\n\nThe uniting of deities representing Love and War lent itself to allegory, especially since the lovers were the parents of Concordia. The Renaissance philosopher Marsilio Ficino notes that \"only Venus dominates Mars, and he never dominates her\". In ancient Roman and Renaissance art, Mars is often shown disarmed and relaxed, or even sleeping, but the extramarital nature of their affair can also suggest that this peace is impermanent.\n\nVirility as a kind of life force \"(vis)\" or virtue \"(virtus)\" is an essential characteristic of Mars. As an agricultural guardian, he directs his energies toward creating conditions that allow crops to grow, which may include warding off hostile forces of nature. As an embodiment of masculine aggression, he is the force that drives wars – but ideally, war that delivers a secure peace.\n\nThe priesthood of the Arval Brothers called on Mars to drive off \"rust\" \"(lues)\", with its double meaning of wheat fungus and the red oxides that affect metal, a threat to both iron farm implements and weaponry. In the surviving text of their hymn, the Arval Brothers invoked Mars as \"ferus\", \"savage\" or \"feral\" like a wild animal.\n\nMars' potential for savagery is expressed in his obscure connections to the wild woodlands, and he may even have originated as a god of the wild, beyond the boundaries set by humans, and thus a force to be propitiated. In his book on farming, Cato invokes \"Mars Silvanus\" for a ritual to be carried out \"in silva\", in the woods, an uncultivated place that if not held within bounds can threaten to overtake the fields needed for crops. Mars' character as an agricultural god may derive solely from his role as a defender and protector, or may be inseparable from his warrior nature, as the leaping of his armed priests the Salii was meant to quicken the growth of crops.\n\nIt appears that Mars was originally a thunderer or storm deity, which explains some of his mixed traits in regards to fertility. This role was later taken in the Roman pantheon by several other gods, such as Summanus or Jupiter.\n\nThe wild animals most sacred to Mars were the woodpecker, the wolf, and the bear, which in the natural lore of the Romans were said always to inhabit the same foothills and woodlands.\n\nPlutarch notes that the woodpecker \"(picus)\" is sacred to Mars because \"it is a courageous and spirited bird and has a beak so strong that it can overturn oaks by pecking them until it has reached the inmost part of the tree.\" As the beak of the \"picus Martius\" contained the god's power to ward off harm, it was carried as a magic charm to prevent bee stings and leech bites. The bird of Mars also guarded a woodland herb \"(paeonia)\" used for treatment of the digestive or female reproductive systems; those who sought to harvest it were advised to do so by night, lest the woodpecker jab out their eyes. The \"picus Martius\" seems to have been a particular species, but authorities differ on which one: perhaps \"Picus viridis\" or \"Dryocopus martius\".\n\nThe woodpecker was revered by the Latin peoples, who abstained from eating its flesh. It was one of the most important birds in Roman and Italic augury, the practice of reading the will of the gods through watching the sky for signs. The mythological figure named Picus had powers of augury that he retained when he was transformed into a woodpecker; in one tradition, Picus was the son of Mars. The Umbrian cognate \"peiqu\" also means \"woodpecker,\" and the Italic Picenes were supposed to have derived their name from the \"picus\" who served as their guide animal during a ritual migration \"(ver sacrum)\" undertaken as a rite of Mars. In the territory of the Aequi, another Italic people, Mars had an oracle of great antiquity where the prophecies were supposed to be spoken by a woodpecker perched on a wooden column.\n\nMars' association with the wolf is familiar from what may be the most famous of Roman myths, the story of how a she-wolf \"(lupa)\" suckled his infant sons when they were exposed by order of King Amulius, who feared them because he had usurped the throne from their grandfather, Numitor. The woodpecker also brought nourishment to the twins.\n\nThe wolf appears elsewhere in Roman art and literature in masculine form as the animal of Mars. A statue group that stood along the Appian Way showed Mars in the company of wolves. At the Battle of Sentinum in 295 BC, the appearance of the wolf of Mars \"(Martius lupus)\" was a sign that Roman victory was to come.\n\nIn Roman Gaul, the goose was associated with the Celtic forms of Mars, and archaeologists have found geese buried alongside warriors in graves. The goose was considered a bellicose animal because it is easily provoked to aggression.\n\nAncient Greek and Roman religion distinguished between animals that were sacred to a deity and those that were prescribed as the correct sacrificial offerings for the god. Wild animals might be viewed as already belonging to the god to whom they were sacred, or at least not owned by human beings and therefore not theirs to give. Since sacrificial meat was eaten at a banquet after the gods received their portion – mainly the entrails \"(exta)\" – it follows that the animals sacrificed were most often, though not always, domestic animals normally part of the Roman diet. Gods often received castrated male animals as sacrifices, and the goddesses female victims; Mars, however, regularly received intact males. Mars did receive oxen under a few of his cult titles, such as Mars Grabovius, but the usual offering was the bull, singly, in multiples, or in combination with other animals.\n\nThe two most distinctive animal sacrifices made to Mars were the \"suovetaurilia\", a triple offering of a pig \"(sus)\", ram \"(ovis)\" and bull \"(taurus)\", and the October Horse, the only horse sacrifice known to have been carried out in ancient Rome and a rare instance of a victim the Romans considered inedible.\n\nThe earliest center in Rome for cultivating Mars as a deity was the Altar of Mars \"(Ara Martis)\" in the Campus Martius (\"Field of Mars\") outside the sacred boundary of Rome \"(pomerium)\". The Romans thought that this altar had been established by the semi-legendary Numa Pompilius, the peace-loving successor of Romulus. According to Roman tradition, the Campus Martius had been consecrated to Mars by their ancestors to serve as horse pasturage and an equestrian training ground for youths. During the Roman Republic (509–27 BC), the Campus was a largely open expanse. No temple was built at the altar, but from 193 BC a covered walkway connected it to the Porta Fontinalis, near the office and archives of the Roman censors. Newly elected censors placed their curule chairs by the altar, and when they had finished conducting the census, the citizens were collectively purified with a suovetaurilia there. A frieze from the so-called \"Altar\" of Domitius Ahenobarbus is thought to depict the census, and may show Mars himself standing by the altar as the procession of victims advances.\nThe main Temple of Mars \"(Aedes Martis)\" in the Republican period also lay outside the sacred boundary and was devoted to the god's warrior aspect. It was built to fulfill a vow \"(votum)\" made by a Titus Quinctius in 388 BC during the Gallic siege of Rome. The founding day \"(dies natalis)\" was commemorated on June 1, and the temple is attested by several inscriptions and literary sources. The sculpture group of Mars and the wolves was displayed there. Soldiers sometimes assembled at the temple before heading off to war, and it was the point of departure for a major parade of Roman cavalry held annually on July 15.\n\nA temple to Mars in the Circus Flaminius was built around 133 BC, funded by Decimus Junius Brutus Callaicus from war booty. It housed a colossal statue of Mars and a nude Venus.\n\nThe Campus Martius continued to provide venues for equestrian events such as chariot racing during the Imperial period, but under the first emperor Augustus it underwent a major program of urban renewal, marked by monumental architecture. The Altar of Augustan Peace \"(Ara Pacis Augustae)\" was located there, as was the Obelisk of Montecitorio, imported from Egypt to form the pointer \"(gnomon)\" of the Solarium Augusti, a giant sundial. With its public gardens, the Campus became one of the most attractive places in the city to visit.\n\nAugustus chose the Campus Martius as the site of his new Temple to Mars Ultor, a manifestation of Mars he cultivated as the avenger \"(ultor)\" of the murder of Julius Caesar and of the military disaster suffered at the Battle of Carrhae. When the legionary standards lost to the Parthians were recovered, they were housed in the new temple. The date of the temple's dedication on May 12 was aligned with the heliacal setting of the constellation Scorpio, the sign of war. The date continued to be marked with circus games as late as the mid-4th century AD.\n\nA large statue of Mars was part of the short-lived Arch of Nero, which was built in 62 AD but dismantled after Nero's suicide and disgrace \"(damnatio memoriae)\".\n\nIn Roman art, Mars is depicted as either bearded and mature, or young and clean-shaven. Even nude or seminude, he often wears a helmet or carries a spear as emblems of his warrior nature. Mars was among the deities to appear on the earliest Roman coinage in the late 4th and early 3rd century BC.\n\nOn the Altar of Peace \"(Ara Pacis)\", built in the last years of the 1st century BC, Mars is a mature man with a \"handsome, classicizing\" face, and a short curly beard and moustache. His helmet is a plumed neo-Attic-type. He wears a military cloak \"(paludamentum)\" and a cuirass ornamented with a gorgoneion. Although the relief is somewhat damaged at this spot, he appears to hold a spear garlanded in laurel, symbolizing a peace that is won by military victory. The 1st-century statue of Mars found in the Forum of Nerva (pictured at top) is similar. In this guise, Mars is presented as the dignified ancestor of the Roman people. The panel of the \"Ara Pacis\" on which he appears would have faced the Campus Martius, reminding viewers that Mars was the god whose altar Numa established there, that is, the god of Rome's oldest civic and military institutions.\n\nParticularly in works of art influenced by the Greek tradition, Mars may be portrayed in a manner that resembles Ares, youthful, beardless, and often nude. In the Renaissance, Mars' nudity was thought to represent his lack of fear in facing danger.\n\nThe spear is the instrument of Mars in the same way that Jupiter wields the lightning bolt, Neptune the trident, and Saturn the scythe or sickle. A relic or fetish called the spear of Mars was kept in a \"sacrarium\" at the Regia, the former residence of the Kings of Rome. The spear was said to move, tremble or vibrate at impending war or other danger to the state, as was reported to occur before the assassination of Julius Caesar. When Mars is pictured as a peace-bringer, his spear is wreathed with laurel or other vegetation, as on the Ara Pacis or a coin of Aemilianus.\n\nThe high priest of Mars in Roman public religion was the Flamen Martialis, who was one of the three major priests in the fifteen-member college of flamens. Mars was also served by the Salii, a twelve-member priesthood of patrician youths who dressed as archaic warriors and danced in procession around the city in March. Both priesthoods extend to the earliest periods of Roman history, and patrician birth was required.\n\nThe festivals of Mars cluster in his namesake month of March (Latin: \"Martius\"), with a few observances in October, the beginning and end of the season for military campaigning and agriculture. Festivals with horse racing took place in the Campus Martius. Some festivals in March retained characteristics of new year festivals, since \"Martius\" was originally the first month of the Roman calendar.\n\nMars was also honored by chariot races at the Robigalia and Consualia, though these festivals are not primarily dedicated to him. From 217 BC onward, Mars was among the gods honored at the lectisternium, a banquet given for deities who were present as images.\n\nRoman hymns \"(carmina)\" are rarely preserved, but Mars is invoked in two. The Arval Brothers, or \"Brothers of the Fields,\" chanted a hymn to Mars while performing their three-step dance. The \"Carmen Saliare\" was sung by Mars' priests the Salii while they moved twelve sacred shields \"(ancilia)\" throughout the city in a procession. In the 1st century AD, Quintilian remarks that the language of the Salian hymn was so archaic that it was no longer fully understood.\n\nThe word \"Mārs\" (genitive \"Mārtis\"), which in Old Latin and poetic usage also appears as \"Māvors\" (\"Māvortis\"), is cognate with Oscan \"Māmers\" (\"Māmertos\"). The Old Latin form was believed to derive from an Italic \"*Māworts\", but can also be explained as deriving from \"Maris,\" the name of an Etruscan child-god; scholars have varying views on whether the two gods are related, and if so how. Latin adjectives from the name of Mars are \"martius\" and \"martialis\", from which derive English \"martial\" (as in \"martial arts\" or \"martial law\") and personal names such as \"Martin\".\n\nMars also gave his name to the third month in the Roman calendar, \"Martius\", from which English \"March\" derives. In the most ancient Roman calendar, \"Martius\" was the first month. The planet Mars was named for him, and in some allegorical and philosophical writings, the planet and the god are endowed with shared characteristics. In many languages, Tuesday is named for the planet Mars or the god of war: In Latin, \"martis dies\" (\"Mars's Day\"), survived in Romance languages as \"martes\" (Spanish), \"mardi\" (French), \"martedi\" (Italian), \"marţi\" (Romanian), and \"dimarts\" (Catalan). In Irish (Gaelic), the day is \"An Mháirt\", while in Albanian it is \"e Marta\". The English word \"Tuesday\" derives from Old English \"Tiwesdæg\" and means \"Tiw's Day\", \"Tiw\" being the Old English form of the Proto-Germanic war god *Tîwaz, or Týr in Norse.\n\nIn Classical Roman religion, Mars was invoked under several titles, and the first Roman emperor Augustus thoroughly integrated Mars into Imperial cult. The 4th-century Latin historian Ammianus Marcellinus treats Mars as one of several classical Roman deities who remained \"cultic realities\" up to his own time. Mars, and specifically Mars Ultor, was among the gods who received sacrifices from Julian, the only emperor to reject Christianity after the conversion of Constantine I. In 363 AD, in preparation for the Siege of Ctesiphon, Julian sacrificed ten \"very fine\" bulls to Mars Ultor. The tenth bull violated ritual protocol by attempting to break free, and when killed and examined, produced ill omens, among the many that were read at the end of Julian's reign. As represented by Ammianus, Julian swore never to make sacrifice to Mars again—a vow kept with his death a month later.\n\nGradivus was one of the gods by whom a general or soldiers might swear an oath to be valorous in battle. His temple outside the Porta Capena was where armies gathered. The archaic priesthood of Mars Gradivus was the \"Salii\", the \"leaping priests\" who danced ritually in armor as a prelude to war. His cult title is most often taken to mean \"the Strider\" or \"the Marching God,\" from \"gradus\", \"step, march.\"\n\nThe poet Statius addresses him as \"the most implacable of the gods,\" but Valerius Maximus concludes his history by invoking Mars Gradivus as \"author and support of the name 'Roman'\": Gradivus is asked – along with Capitoline Jupiter and Vesta, as the keeper of Rome's perpetual flame – to \"guard, preserve, and protect\" the state of Rome, the peace, and the \"princeps\" (the emperor Tiberius at the time).\n\nA source from Late Antiquity says that the wife of Gradivus was Nereia, the daughter of Nereus, and that he loved her passionately.\n\nMars Quirinus was the protector of the Quirites (\"citizens\" or \"civilians\") as divided into \"curiae\" (citizen assemblies), whose oaths were required to make a treaty. As a guarantor of treaties, Mars Quirinus is thus a god of peace: \"When he rampages, Mars is called \"Gradivus\", but when he's at peace \"Quirinus\".\"\n\nThe deified Romulus was identified with Mars Quirinus. In the Capitoline Triad of Jupiter, Mars, and Quirinus, however, Mars and Quirinus were two separate deities, though not perhaps in origin. Each of the three had his own flamen (specialized priest), but the functions of the Flamen Martialis and Flamen Quirinalis are hard to distinguish.\n\nMars is invoked as \"Grabovius\" in the Iguvine Tablets, bronze tablets written in Umbrian that record ritual protocols for carrying out public ceremonies on behalf of the city and community of Iguvium. The same title is given to Jupiter and to the Umbrian deity Vofionus. This triad has been compared to the Archaic Triad, with Vofionus equivalent to Quirinus. Tables I and VI describe a complex ritual that took place at the three gates of the city. After the auspices were taken, two groups of three victims were sacrificed at each gate. Mars Grabovius received three oxen.\n\n\"Father Mars\" or \"Mars the Father\" is the form in which the god is invoked in the agricultural prayer of Cato, and he appears with this title in several other literary texts and inscriptions. \"Mars Pater\" is among the several gods invoked in the ritual of \"devotio\", by means of which a general sacrificed himself and the lives of the enemy to secure a Roman victory.\n\nFather Mars is the regular recipient of the \"suovetaurilia\", the sacrifice of a pig \"(sus)\", ram \"(ovis)\" and bull \"(taurus)\", or often a bull alone. To \"Mars Pater\" other epithets were sometimes appended, such as \"Mars Pater Victor\" (\"Father Mars the Victorious\"), to whom the Roman army sacrificed a bull on March 1.\n\nAlthough \"pater\" and \"mater\" were fairly common as honorifics for a deity, any special claim for Mars as father of the Roman people lies in the mythic genealogy that makes him the divine father of Romulus and Remus.\n\nIn the section of his farming book that offers recipes and medical preparations, Cato describes a \"votum\" to promote the health of cattle:\nMake an offering to Mars Silvanus in the forest \"(in silva)\" during the daytime for each head of cattle: 3 pounds of meal, 4½ pounds of bacon, 4½ pounds of meat, and 3 pints of wine. You may place the viands in one vessel, and the wine likewise in one vessel. Either a slave or a free man may make this offering. After the ceremony is over, consume the offering on the spot at once. A woman may not take part in this offering or see how it is performed. You may vow the vow every year if you wish.\nThat \"Mars Silvanus\" is a single entity has been doubted. Invocations of deities are often list-like, without connecting words, and the phrase should perhaps be understood as \"Mars and Silvanus\". Women were explicitly excluded from some cult practices of Silvanus, but not necessarily of Mars. William Warde Fowler, however, thought that the wild god of the wood Silvanus may have been \"an emanation or offshoot\" of Mars.\n\nAugustus created the cult of \"Mars the Avenger\" to mark two occasions: his defeat of the assassins of Caesar at Philippi in 42 BC, and the negotiated return of the Roman battle standards that had been lost to the Parthians at the Battle of Carrhae in 53 BC. The god is depicted wearing a cuirass and helmet and standing in a \"martial pose,\" leaning on a lance he holds in his right hand. He holds a shield in his left hand. The goddess Ultio, a divine personification of vengeance, had an altar and golden statue in his temple.\n\nThe Temple of Mars Ultor, dedicated in 2 BC in the center of the Forum of Augustus, gave the god a new place of honor. Some rituals previously conducted within the cult of Capitoline Jupiter were transferred to the new temple, which became the point of departure for magistrates as they left for military campaigns abroad. Augustus required the Senate to meet at the temple when deliberating questions of war and peace. The temple also became the site at which sacrifice was made to conclude the rite of passage of young men assuming the \"toga virilis\" (\"man's toga\") around age 14.\n\nOn various Imperial holidays, Mars Ultor was the first god to receive a sacrifice, followed by the Genius of the emperor. An inscription from the 2nd century records a vow to offer Mars Ultor a bull with gilded horns.\n\n\"Augustus\" or \"Augusta\" was appended far and wide, \"on monuments great and small,\" to the name of gods or goddesses, including Mars. The honorific marks the affiliation of a deity with Imperial cult. In Hispania, many of the statues and dedications to Mars Augustus were presented by members of the priesthood or sodality called the \"Sodales Augustales\". These vows \"(vota)\" were usually fulfilled within a sanctuary of Imperial cult, or in a temple or precinct (\"templum\") consecrated specifically to Mars. As with other deities invoked as \"Augustus\", altars to Mars Augustus might be set up to further the well-being (\"salus\") of the emperor, but some inscriptions suggest personal devotion. An inscription in the Alps records the gratitude of a slave who dedicated a statue to Mars Augustus as \"conservator corporis sui\", the preserver of his own body, said to have been vowed \"ex iussu numinis ipsius\", \"by the order of the \"numen\" himself\".\n\n\"Mars Augustus\" appears in inscriptions at sites throughout the Empire, such as Hispania Baetica, Saguntum, and Emerita (Lusitania) in Roman Spain; Leptis Magna (with a date of 6–7 AD) in present-day Libya; and Sarmizegetusa in the province of Dacia.\n\nIn addition to his cult titles at Rome, Mars appears in a large number of inscriptions in the provinces of the Roman Empire, and more rarely in literary texts, identified with a local deity by means of an epithet. Mars appears with great frequency in Gaul among the Continental Celts, as well as in Roman Spain and Britain. In Celtic settings, he is often invoked as a healer. The inscriptions indicate that Mars' ability to dispel the enemy on the battlefield was transferred to the sick person's struggle against illness; healing is expressed in terms of warding off and rescue.\n\nMars is identified with a number of Celtic deities, some of whom are not attested independently.\n\n\n\n\"Mars Balearicus\" is a name used in modern scholarship for small bronze warrior figures from Majorca (one of the Balearic Islands) that are interpreted as representing the local Mars cult. These statuettes have been found within talayotic sanctuaries with extensive evidence of burnt offerings. \"Mars\" is fashioned as a lean, athletic nude lifting a lance and wearing a helmet, often conical; the genitals are perhaps semi-erect in some examples.\n\nOther bronzes at the sites represent the heads or horns of bulls, but the bones in the ash layers indicate that sheep, goats, and pigs were the sacrificial victims. Bronze horse-hooves were found in one sanctuary. Another site held an imported statue of Imhotep, the legendary Egyptian physician. These sacred precincts were still in active use when the Roman occupation began in 123 BC. They seem to have been astronomically oriented toward the rising or setting of the constellation Centaurus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "554322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=554322", "title": "Mathieu de Montmorency", "text": "Mathieu de Montmorency\n\nMathieu Jean Felicité de Montmorency, duc de Montmorency-Laval (10 July 1767 – 24 March 1826) was a prominent French statesman during the French Revolution and Bourbon Restoration. He was elected as the youngest member of the National Assembly during the time of the French Revolution. He is also known for his military expertise, and ultimately this is what led to his fame. He was a well known statesman and politician who was popular for his revolutionary ideals. Throughout his life he served as a governor, a deputy of the Estates General, secretary of the assembly, and captain of the guards.\n\nMathieu de Montomorency was born in Paris, France on 10 July 1767. He was the son of Mathieu Paul Louis de Montmorency, vicomte de Laval (1748–1809) and Catherine Jeanne Tavernier de Boullongne (d. 1838). Montmorency's father was a scion of one of the oldest noble families in France, while his wife was the daughter of an aristocratic French planter in Guadeloupe. His mother's illegitimate mulatto half-brother was the famous Chevalier de Saint-Georges. He was a very tall, blonde, well-built man who had a contagious, youthful aura. Montmorency went on to seek higher education at College du Plessis, where he developed his love for the subject of philosophy and the idea of enlightenment.Montmorency was elected into the National Assembly at the very young age of 23. At the time, he was the youngest member to serve on the Constituent Assembly. Montmorency worked very diligently to make a name for himself among the other prominent members. He had great ease when it came to presenting his speeches. Although born into nobility, he did not let his arrogant reputation get the best of him. He always regarded others with great manners. His hard work in the National Assembly ultimately led him to be appointed as the secretary of the assembly.\n\nIn 1780, his father, a colonel of the Auvergne regiment, was appointed a \"premier gentilhomme de la chambre\" to King Louis XVI of France's younger brother, the Comte de Provence. However, when Catherine was denied the corresponding rank of \"dame pour accompagner\" to the prince's wife, Marie-Joséphine, due to her relatively low birth, Laval resigned his post in Provence's household. Montmorency was a very intelligent man. He was a diplomatist and a great writer. He eventually went to become a tutor for Henry, duke de Bordeaux, the grandson of Charles X.\n\nMathieu de Montmorency was married to his first cousin Hortense de Luynes. At the time this was seen as normal, because many noble families wanted to keep their bloodlines within each other. However, despite being married he actually paid very little attention to his wife. Due to the very relaxed nature of marriages, he often was seen without his wife. In actuality, Montmorency was madly in love with another cousin by the name of Marquise de Laval. Laval died suddenly, and Montmorency went to a great depression.\n\nMadame de Stael ultimately brought Montmorency out of his depression. Mathieu became Mme Stael’s friend in 1790 while he was in the constituent assembly. She was 24 years old when they met, while he was only 23. Mme Stael was a very educated woman. Their friendship started after writing a series of letters to each other. His attraction towards her grew more and more through each letter.\n\nOriginally known by the title of \"Comte de Montmorency-Laval\", Mathieu served as an adolescent with his father in the American Revolution. At the opening of the French Revolution, he joined the Third Estate and sat on the left side of the National Assembly, shifting from originally being on the Second Estate, the nobility. He served in the American War of Independence with Lafayette. America was a new nation that had built its nation on democracy and liberty. Montmorency is credited for bringing these new governmental ideas to France. Montmorency was a member of the noble class. The nobility had a very negative reputation, as they were known for being greedy and discourteous. However, Montmorency’s actions began to change the way the nobility was viewed at the start of the revolution. He was extremely generous and showed great remorse to people, unlike others. His ultimate goal was to make the French people happy, while still preserving the nobility. Years later, Montmorency went to become the Captain of the guards of the Count d’Artois. He also became the governor of the city and castle of Gompiègne and was elected the deputy of the estates general for the nobility of Montfort. These are all great accomplishments that Montmorency achieved throughout his life.\n\nAt the beginning of the Bourbon Restoration, he was promoted to the rank of \"maréchal de camp\", and accompanied Louis XVIII to Ghent during the Hundred Days. After the Battle of Waterloo and the final defeat of Napoleon in 1815, he was made a peer of France and received the title of \"Vicomte de Montmorency-Laval\". He was instrumental in convincing Armand-Emmanuel du Plessis, Duc de Richelieu to replace his former friend and former Bonapartist Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord as the new Prime Minister of France.\n\nKnown for strong reactionary, ultramontane, and Ultra-royalist views, Felicite became the French minister of foreign affairs under Jean-Baptiste Guillaume Joseph, comte de Villèle in December 1821. He recommended armed intervention in Spain, to restore Ferdinand VII, at the Congress of Verona in October 1822. However, he resigned his post in December, being compensated by the title of \"Duc de Montmorency-Laval\" and the cross of the Legion of Honour soon after.\n\nHe was elected to the Académie française in 1825, with few qualifications for the honour. The following year, he was named tutor to the six-year-old heir to the throne, the Duc de Bordeaux. He died two months after receiving this prestigious appointment, on 24 March 1826. He was discovered seated lifeless at the end of the Good Friday Liturgy in St. Thomas d'Aquin church in the fashionable St. Germain des Près faubourg.\n\nSee Vétillard, \"Notice sur la vie de M. le duc Mathieu de Montmorency\" (Le Mans, 1826), and, for his curious relations with Mme de Staël, P Gautier, \"Mathieu de Montmorency et Mme de Staël, d'après les lettres inédites de M. de Montmorency à Mme Necker de Saussure\" (1908);\nMadame de Boigne (Adélaïde d'Osmond) Mémoires: Récits d'une tante, Mercure de France,t.2\n"}
{"id": "2254447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2254447", "title": "Matonabbee", "text": "Matonabbee\n\nMatonabbee (–1782) was a Chipewyan hunter and leader he also was a trader and was a Chipewyan representative at the prince of whales fort. He travelled with Chief Akaitcho's older brother, Keskarrah. After his father died, Matonabbee spent some time living at Prince of Wales Fort where he learned to speak English.\n\nHe acted as a guide for Samuel Hearne during his exploration from 1770 to 1772. On July 14, 1771, while on an Arctic overland journey, he, his followers, and a group of Yellowknives, Dene known as Copper Indians, who had joined them at Clowey, massacred a group of over 20 unsuspecting Inuit (Eskimo); this would be known as the Bloody Falls massacre.\n\nAfter the death of many Chipewyans during a smallpox epidemic of 1782 and the defeat of Fort Prince of Wales by the French, Matonabbee became depressed after the destruction of the Churchill Factory 1782, which had been the primary source of his fortune and fame. He had been the main middleman between the various tribes of the Cree and the Hudson's Bay Company. He then committed suicide by hanging himself, thus being the earliest record of a northern First Nations to kill himself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5424837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5424837", "title": "Ozzie's Girls", "text": "Ozzie's Girls\n\nOzzie's Girls is an American sitcom spin-off of \"The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet\", which was broadcast in first-run syndication. The pilot episode, written by Ozzie Nelson and directed by David Nelson, aired as a \"special presentation\" on NBC on September 10, 1972. After NBC passed on the series, it was sold into first-run syndication where it aired as a weekly series during the 1973-74 season.\n\nLike \"The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet\", the premise of \"Ozzie’s Girls\" mirrored some aspects the Nelsons’ real lives. \"Ozzie’s Girls\" picks up seven years after the cancellation of \"Ozzie and Harriet\". Ozzie and Harriet’s sons, David and Ricky, have grown up, moved out and have families of their own. In the pilot episode, Ozzie and Harriet discuss how empty and quiet their home is with their boys gone. They then decide to rent their sons' old bedroom to a college student and place an ad in the campus news.\nThe ad is answered by Jennifer McKenzie (Brenda Sykes), a sophisticated, neat and studious college student, who speaks to Harriet over the phone. After Harriet tells Jennifer (whose was renamed “Brenda” in the series) that the room is available, Jennifer sets up a time to come to the Nelsons house. While Jennifer is enroute to the Nelsons’ home, another student, a free spirited hippy “slob” named Susan “Susie” Hamilton (Susan Sennett), answers the ad in person. After a minor misunderstanding over who answered the ad first, the girls decide to share the room. Despite their differences, the girls become fast friends and are soon considered to be part of the Nelson family by Ozzie and Harriet.\n\nMuch like \"Ozzie and Harriet\", episodes of \"Ozzie’s Girls\" center around the Nelsons being involved in lives and problems of “the kids”. Much of the humor stems from Ozzie and Harriet having to contend with girls' trials and dilemmas in more liberated era, after having raised two boys in a more conservative era.\n\nA total of 24 half-hour episodes were produced and aired in select markets from September 1973 to September 1974. The series was canceled in after one season.\n\n"}
{"id": "23347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23347", "title": "Paul Allen", "text": "Paul Allen\n\nPaul Gardner Allen (January 21, 1953 – October 15, 2018) was an American business magnate, investor, software engineer, humanitarian, and philanthropist. Alongside Bill Gates, Allen co-founded Microsoft in 1975, which helped spark the microcomputer revolution and later became the world's largest PC software company. In March 2018, he was estimated to be the 44th-wealthiest person in the world, with an estimated net worth of $21.7 billion, revised at the time of his death to $20.3 billion.\n\nAllen was the founder, with his sister Jody Allen, and Chairman of Vulcan Inc., the privately-held company that managed his various business and philanthropic efforts. He had a multibillion-dollar investment portfolio including technology and media companies, scientific research, real estate holdings, private spaceflight ventures, and stakes in other sectors. He owned two professional sports teams: the Seattle Seahawks of the National Football League and the Portland Trail Blazers of the National Basketball Association, and was part-owner of the Seattle Sounders FC, which joined Major League Soccer in 2009.\n\nAllen was the founder of the Allen Institute for Brain Science, Institute for Artificial Intelligence, Institute for Cell Science, Stratolaunch Systems, and Apex Learning. He gave more than $2 billion to causes such as education, wildlife and environmental conservation, the arts, healthcare, community services, and more. He received numerous awards and honors in several different professions, and was listed among the \"Time\" 100 Most Influential People in the World in both 2007 and 2008.    \n\nAllen was born on January 21, 1953, in Seattle, Washington, to Kenneth Sam Allen and Edna Faye (née Gardner) Allen. Allen attended Lakeside School, a private school in Seattle, where he befriended the two-years-younger Bill Gates, with whom he shared an enthusiasm for computers. They used Lakeside's Teletype terminal to develop their programming skills on several time-sharing computer systems. They also used the laboratory of the Computer Science Department of the University of Washington, doing personal research and computer programming; on at least one occasion in 1971 they were banned from the laboratory for abuse of their privileges there. According to Allen, in their teenage years he and Bill Gates would go dumpster-diving for computer program code. After graduating and obtaining a perfect SAT score of 1600, Allen went to Washington State University, where he joined Phi Kappa Theta fraternity; after two years, however, he dropped out in order to work as a programmer for Honeywell in Boston, near Harvard University where Bill Gates had ended up. Allen later convinced Gates to drop out of Harvard in order to create Microsoft.\n\nIn 1975, in Albuquerque, New Mexico, Allen and Gates began marketing a BASIC programming language interpreter. Allen came up with the original name of \"Micro-Soft\" (a combination of \"microcomputer\" and \"software\"), according to a 1995 \"Fortune\" magazine article.\n\nIn 1980, after Microsoft had committed to deliver IBM a disk operating system (DOS) for the original IBM PC, although they had not yet developed one, Allen spearheaded a deal for Microsoft to purchase QDOS (Quick and Dirty Operating System), written by Tim Paterson, who, at the time, was employed at Seattle Computer Products. As a result of this transaction, Microsoft was able to secure a contract to supply the DOS that would eventually run on IBM's PC line. This contract with IBM proved the watershed in Microsoft history that led to Allen's and Gates' wealth and success. Allen effectively left Microsoft in 1982 after receiving a Hodgkin's lymphoma diagnosis.\n\nGates reportedly asked Allen to give him some of his shares to compensate for the higher amount of work being performed by Gates. According to Allen, Gates said since he \"did almost everything on BASIC\", the company should be split 60–40 in his favor. Allen agreed to this arrangement, which Gates later renegotiated to 64–36. In 1983, Gates tried to buy Allen out at $5 per share; however, Allen refused and left the company with his shares intact. This proved critical to Allen's becoming a billionaire after Microsoft went public.\n\nAllen officially resigned from his position on the Microsoft board of directors on November 9, 2000. He remained as a senior strategy advisor to the company's executives. In January 2014, he still held 100 million shares of Microsoft.\n\n\nAllen confirmed that he was the sole investor behind aerospace engineer and entrepreneur Burt Rutan's SpaceShipOne suborbital commercial spacecraft on October 4, 2004. The craft was developed and flown by Mojave Aerospace Ventures, which was a joint venture between Allen and Rutan's aviation company, Scaled Composites. SpaceShipOne climbed to an altitude of over the Mojave Air and Space Port and was the first privately funded effort to successfully put a civilian in suborbital space. It won the Ansari X Prize competition and received the $10 million prize.\n\nOn December 13, 2011, Allen announced the creation of Stratolaunch Systems, based at the Mojave Air and Space Port. Stratolaunch is a proposed orbital launch system consisting of a dual-bodied, 6-engine jet aircraft, capable of carrying a rocket to high altitude; the rocket would then separate from its carrier aircraft and fire its own engines to complete its climb into orbit. If successful, this project would be the first wholly privately funded space transport system. Stratolaunch, which is partnering with Orbital ATK and Scaled Composites, is intended to launch in inclement weather, fly without worrying about the availability of launch pads and to operate from different locations. Stratolaunch plans to ultimately host six to ten missions per year. On April 13, 2015, Vulcan Aerospace was announced. It is the company within Allen's Vulcan Inc. that plans and executes projects to shift how the world conceptualizes space travel through cost reduction and on-demand access.\n\nAllen's Vulcan Real Estate division offers development and portfolio management services, and is known for the redevelopment of the South Lake Union neighborhood immediately north of downtown Seattle. Vulcan has developed of new residential, office, retail and biotechnology research space, and has a total development capacity of . Vulcan advocated for the Seattle Streetcar line known as South Lake Union Streetcar, which runs from Seattle's Westlake Center to the south end of Lake Union. In 2012, \"The Wall Street Journal\" called Allen's South Lake Union investment \"unexpectedly lucrative\" and one that led to his firm selling a office complex to Amazon.com for US$1.16 billion, one of the most expensive office deals ever in Seattle. \"It's exceeded my expectations\", Allen said of the South Lake Union development.\n\n\nAllen purchased the Portland Trail Blazers NBA team in 1988 from California real estate developer Larry Weinberg for $70 million. He was instrumental in the development and funding of the Moda Center (previously known as the Rose Garden), the arena where the Blazers play. He purchased the arena on April 2, 2007, and stated that this was a major milestone and a positive step for the franchise. The Allen-owned Trail Blazers reached the playoffs 19 times including the NBA Finals in 1990 and 1992. According to \"Forbes\", the Blazers were valued at $940 million in 2015 and ranked No. 12 out of 30 NBA teams.\n\nAllen purchased the Seattle Seahawks NFL team in 1996 when former owner Ken Behring threatened to move the Seahawks to Southern California. Herman Sarkowsky, a former Seahawks minority owner, told \"The Seattle Times\" about Allen's decision to buy the team, \"I'm not sure anybody else in this community would have done what [Allen] did.\" The Seahawks are valued at $1.33 billion in August 2014 by \"Forbes\", which says the team has \"one of the most rabid fan bases in the NFL\". Under the helm of Allen, the Seahawks went to the Super Bowl three times winning Super Bowl XLVIII and three NFC Championships (2005, 2013, 2014).\n\nAllen's Vulcan Sports & Entertainment is part of the ownership team of the Seattle Sounders FC, a Major League Soccer (MLS) franchise that began play in 2009 at CenturyLink Field, a stadium which was also controlled by Allen. The ownership team also includes film producer Joe Roth, businessman Adrian Hanauer, and comedian Drew Carey. The Sounders sold out every home game during its first season, setting a new MLS record for average match attendance.\n\nAllen and his sister Jody Allen together were the owners and executive producers of Vulcan Productions, a television and film production company headquartered in Seattle within the entertainment division of Vulcan Inc. Their films have received various recognition, ranging from a Peabody to Independent Spirit Awards, Grammys and Emmys. In 2014 alone, Allen's film, \"We The Economy,\" won 12 awards including a Webby award for best Online News & Politics Series. The films have also been nominated for Golden Globes and Academy Awards among many others. Vulcan Productions' films and documentary projects include \"Far from Heaven\" (2002), \"Hard Candy\" (2005), \"Rx for Survival: A Global Health Challenge\" (2005), \"Where God Left His Shoes\" (2006), \"\" (2007), \"This Emotional Life\" (2010), \"We The Economy\" (2014) \"Racing Extinction\" (2015) and Oscar-nominated \"Body Team 12\" (2015).\n\nIn 2013, Vulcan Productions co-produced the Richard E. Robbins-directed film \"Girl Rising\" which tells the stories of girls from different parts of the world who seek an education. Globally over 205 million households watched \"Girl Rising\" during the CNN and CNN International premieres, and over 4 million people have engaged with Girl Rising through websites and social media. Through the associated 10x10 program, over $2.1 million has been donated to help girls receive an education worldwide.\n\nAlso in 2013, Vulcan Productions signed on as a producing partner of \"Pandora's Promise\", a documentary about nuclear power, directed by Oscar-nominated director Robert Stone. It was released in select theaters nationwide June 12, 2013 and on CNN on November 7, 2013. A variety of college and private screenings as well as panel discussions have been hosted throughout the country.\n\nAllen gave more than $2 billion towards the advancement of science, technology, education, wildlife conservation, the arts, and community services in his lifetime. The Paul G. Allen Family Foundation, which he founded with Jody Allen, was established to administer a portion of Allen's philanthropic contributions. Since its formation, the foundation has given more than $494 million to over 1,500 nonprofits and in 2010, Allen became a signatory of The Giving Pledge, promising to give at least half of his fortune to philanthropic causes. Allen received commendations for his philanthropic commitments including the Andrew Carnegie Medal of Philanthropy and \"Inside Philanthropy\"'s \"Philanthropist of the Year\".\n\nIn September 2003, Allen launched the Allen Institute for Brain Science with a $100 million contribution dedicated to understanding how the human brain works. In total, Allen donated $500 million to the institute, making it his single largest philanthropic recipient. Since its launch, the Allen Institute for Brain Science has taken a Big Science and Open Science approach to tackle projects. The institute makes research tools available to the scientific community using an open data model. Some of the institute's most notable projects include the Allen Mouse Brain Atlas, Allen Human Brain Atlas and the Allen Mouse Brain Connectivity Atlas. The Allen Institute is also helping to advance and shape the White House's BRAIN Initiative as well as the Human Brain Project.\n\nFounded in 2014, the Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence (AI2)'s main focus is to research and engineer artificial intelligence. The Institute is modeled after the Allen Institute for Brain Science and led by researcher and professor, Dr. Oren Etzioni. AI2 has undertaken four main projects, Aristo, Semantic Scholar, Euclid and Plato. Project Aristo is working to build an AI system capable of passing an 8th grade science exam.\n\nIn December 2014, Allen committed $100 million to create the Allen Institute for Cell Science in Seattle. The institute is investigating and creating a virtual model of cells in the hope of bringing forth treatment of different diseases. Like the institutes before it, all data generated and tools developed will be made publicly available online.\n\nLaunched in 2016 with a $100 million commitment, The Paul G. Allen Frontiers Group aims to discover and support ideas at the frontier of bioscience in an effort to accelerate the pace of discovery. The group is led by Tom Skalak and will be targeting scientists and research areas that \"some might consider out-of-the-box at the very edges of knowledge\".\n\nAllen launched the Allen Distinguished Investigators Awards (ADI) in 2010 to support scientists pursuing early-stage research projects who often have difficulty securing funding from traditional sources.\n\nAllen donated the seed money to build SETI's Allen Telescope Array, eventually contributing $30 million to the project.\n\nThe Paul Allen's flower fly was named in recognition of his contributions to Dipterology.\n\nAllen provided more than $7 million to fund a census of elephant populations in Africa, the largest such endeavour since the 1970s. The Great Elephant Census team flew over 20 countries to survey African savannah elephants. The survey results were published in 2015 and showed rapid rates of decline which were accelerating.\n\nHe began supporting the University of British Columbia's Sea Around Us Project in 2014 to improve data on global fisheries as a way to fight illegal fishing. Part of his $2.6 million in funding went towards the creation of FishBase, an online database about adult finfish. Allen funded the Global FinPrint initiative, launched in July 2015, a three-year survey of sharks and rays in coral reef areas. The survey is the largest of its kind and designed to provide data to help conservation programs.\n\nAllen backed Washington state initiative 1401 to prohibit the purchase, sale and distribution of products made from 10 endangered species including elephants, rhinos, lions, tigers, leopards, cheetahs, marine turtles, pangolins, sharks and rays. The initiative gained enough signatures to be on the state's ballot on November 3, 2015, and passed.\n\nAlongside the United States Department of Transportation (USDOT), Allen and Vulcan Inc. launched the Smart City Challenge, a contest inviting American cities to transform their transportation systems. Created in 2015 with the USDOT's $40 million commitment as well as $10 million from Allen's Vulcan Inc., the challenge aims to create a first-of-its-kind modern city that will demonstrate how cities can improve quality of life while lowering greenhouse gas emissions. The winning city was Columbus, Ohio.\n\nAs a founding member of the International SeaKeepers Society, Allen hosted its proprietary SeaKeeper 1000TM oceanographic and atmospheric monitoring system on all three of his megayachts.\n\nAllen funded the building of microgrids, which are small-scale power grids that can operate independently, in Kenya to help promote reusable energy and empower its businesses and residents. He was an early investor in the Mawingu Networks, a wireless and solar-powered Internet provider which aims to connect rural Africa with the world, and Off Grid Electric, a company focused on providing solar energy to people in emerging nations.\n\nIn 2014, Allen pledged at least $100 million toward the fight to end the Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa, making him the largest private donor in the Ebola crisis. He also created a website called TackleEbola.org as a way to spread awareness as well as serve as a way donors could fund projects in need. The site additionally highlighted organizations working to stop Ebola that Allen supported such as International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement, Médecins Sans Frontières, Partners in Health, UNICEF and World Food Program USA. On April 21, 2015, Allen brought together key leaders in the Ebola fight at the Ebola Innovation Summit in San Francisco. The summit aimed to share key learnings and reinforce the need for continued action and support to bring the number of Ebola cases down to zero, which was achieved in January 2016.\n\nIn October 2015, the Paul G. Allen Family Foundation announced it would award seven new grants totaling $11 million to prevent future widespread outbreaks of the virus.\n\nIn 2012, along with his research team and the Royal Navy, Allen attempted to retrieve the bell from , which sank in the Denmark Strait during World War II, but the attempt failed due to poor weather. On August 7, 2015, they tried again and recovered the bell in very good condition. It was further restored and put on display in May 2016 in the National Museum of the Royal Navy, Portsmouth, in remembrance of the 1,415 crewmen lost.\n\nSince 2015, Allen funded the RV \"Petrel\", which has explored several notable shipwrecks, including; the in the Sibuyan Sea off the coast of Romblon, Philippines, and the during an expedition to Guadalcanal.\n\nAllen established several non-profit community institutions that feature his private collections of historic artifacts. These include:\n\nAn active art collector, Allen gifted more than $100 million to support the arts. On October 15, 2012, the Americans for the Arts gave Allen the Eli and Edythe Broad Award for Philanthropy in the Arts. Allen also loaned out more than 300 pieces from his private art collection to 47 different venues. In 2013, Allen sold Barnett Newman's \"Onement VI\" (1953) at Sotheby's in New York for $43.8 million which at the time was the record price to have been paid for a work by the abstract artist.\n\nIn 2015, Allen founded the Seattle Art Fair, a four-day event with 60-plus galleries from around the world including the particpation of the Gagosian Gallery, David Zwirner, and many others. The event drew thousands and inspired other satellite fairs throughout the city.\n\nIn August 2016, Allen announced the launch of Upstream Music Fest + Summit, an annual festival fashioned after South by Southwest. Held in Pioneer Square, the first festival took place in May 2017.\n\nIn 1989, Allen donated $2 million to the University of Washington to construct the Allen Library, which was named after his father Kenneth S. Allen, a former associate director of the University of Washington library system. In the same year, Allen donated an additional $8 million to establish the Kenneth S. Allen Library Endowment. In 2012, the endowment was renamed the Kenneth S. and Faye G. Allen Library Endowment after Allen's mother (a noted bibliophile) died.\n\nIn 2002, Allen donated $14 million to the University of Washington to construct the Paul G. Allen Center for Computer Science and Engineering. The building was dedicated in October 2003.\n\nIn 2010, Allen announced a gift of $26 million to build the Paul G. Allen School of Global Animal Health at Washington State University, his alma mater. The gift was the largest private donation in the university's history.\n\nIn 2016, Allen pledged a $10 million donation over four years for the creation of the Allen Discovery Centers at Tufts University and Stanford University. The centers would fund research that would read and write the morphogenetic code. Over eight years the donation could be as much as $20 million.\n\nIn 2017, Allen donated $40 million (with an additional $10 million added by Microsoft) to reorganize the University of Washington's Computer Science and Engineering department into the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science and Engineering.\n\nWhile Allen expressed interest in romantic love and one day having a family, he never married and had no children. His marriage plans, with his first girlfriend Rita, were cancelled as he felt he \"was not ready to marry at 23\". He was sometimes considered reclusive.\n\nAllen received his first electric guitar at the age of sixteen, and was inspired to play it by listening to Jimi Hendrix. In 2000, Allen played rhythm guitar on the independently-produced album \"Grown Men\". In 2013, he had a major label release on Sony's Legacy Recordings; \"Everywhere at Once\" by Paul Allen and the Underthinkers. PopMatters.com described \"Everywhere at Once\" as \"a quality release of blues-rock that's enjoyable from start to finish\".\n\nOn February 7, 2018, an interview with Quincy Jones was released by the magazine \"New York\" on their \"Vulture\" website. In this interview, Jones said that he had extreme respect for Eric Clapton, his band Cream, and Allen. Referencing Allen's Hendrix-like play, the article mentioned a jam session on a yacht with Stevie Wonder.\n\nAllen's yacht, \"Octopus\", launched in 2003. As of 2013, it was 14th on the list of motor yachts by length. The yacht is equipped with two helicopters, a submarine, an ROV, a swimming pool, a music studio and a basketball court.\n\nAllen loaned \"Octopus\" for a number of operations. Most notably, \"Octopus\" was used in the search for a missing American pilot and two officers whose plane disappeared off Palau and the study of a rare fish called a coelacanth among many others.\n\n\"Octopus \"is a member of AMVER, a voluntary group ship reporting system used worldwide by authorities to arrange assistance for those in distress at sea.\n\nThe ship is also known for its annual celebrity-studded parties which Allen hosted at the Cannes film festival, where Allen and his band played for guests. These performances included musicians such as Usher and David A. Stewart.\n\nAllen also owned \"Tatoosh,\" which is one of the world's 100 largest yachts. In January 2016, it was reported that \"Tatoosh\" allegedly damaged coral in the Cayman Islands. In April 2016, the Department of Environment (DoE) and Allen's Vulcan Inc. successfully completed a restoration plan to help speed recovery and protect the future of coral in this area.\n\nIn 2016, Allen purchased a platform supply vessel and christened it RV \"Petrel\". The project team aboard \"Petrel\" was responsible for locating IJN \"Musashi\" when they were still aboard \"Octopus\". In 2017, on Allen's directions, RV \"Petrel\" found the USS \"Indianapolis\" (CA-35), USS \"Ward\" (DD-139), the wrecks of the Battle of Surigao Strait and the Battle of Ormoc Bay. In 2018, \"Petrel\" found a lost US Navy C-2A Greyhound aircraft in the Philippine Sea, the in the Coral Sea and more recently the USS \"Juneau\" (CL-52).\n\nAllen was diagnosed with Stage 1-A Hodgkin's lymphoma in 1982. His cancer was successfully treated by several months of radiation therapy. Allen was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin lymphoma in 2009. Likewise, the cancer was successfully treated until it returned in 2018, which ultimately caused his death by septic shock on October 15, 2018. He was 65 years old.\n\nFollowing his death, Allen's sister Jody Allen was named executor and trustee of all of Paul Allen’s estate, pursuant to his instructions, giving her responsibility for overseeing the execution of his will and settling his affairs with tax authorities and parties with an interest in his projects. \n\nSeveral Seattle-area landmarks, including the Space Needle, Columbia Center and CenturyLink Field, as well as various Microsoft offices throughout the United States, were illuminated in blue on November 3, 2018 as a tribute to Allen.\n\nAllen received numerous awards in many different areas, including sports, philanthropy, and the arts:\n\n\n\nIn 2011, Allen's memoir \"\", was published by Portfolio, a Penguin Group imprint. The book recounts how Allen became enamored with computers at an early age, conceived the idea for Microsoft, recruited his friend Bill Gates to join him, and launched what would become the world's most successful software company. It also explores Allen's business and creative ventures following his 1983 departure from Microsoft, including his involvement in SpaceShipOne, his purchase of the Portland Trailblazers and Seattle Seahawks, his passion for music, and his ongoing support for scientific research. The book made \"The New York Times Best Seller list\". The paperback version of \"Idea Man\", which included a new epilogue, came out on October 30, 2012.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56230060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56230060", "title": "Peter Kimbowa", "text": "Peter Kimbowa\n\nPeter Kimbowa (PK) is a Board member and advisor to the Boards in: ESKOM Uganda Limited, Equity Bank, Baylor College of Medicine which is based both in Mulago Hospital and Houston Texas, and advisor to the Petroleum Authority of Uganda (PAU). He is also a member of the Kampala Archdiocese and Uganda Investment Authority.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57978947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57978947", "title": "Philipp Nikandrov", "text": "Philipp Nikandrov\n\nPhilipp Nikandrov is a Russian architect (born 1968 in Leningrad). His expertise lie in large scale, complex projects of Mixed-Use and high-rise typology and urban planning. His design approach lies between contextualism and minimalism, with architectural metaphors derived from site context, history of the place and cultural background.\n\nThe most notable projects include the Evolution Tower in Moscow’s financial district and the Lakhta-Center Phase 1 in Saint-Petersburg, with a vertical dominant that currently holds the title of Europe’s tallest Skyscraper.\n\nPhilipp Nikandrov started his professional career in 1990 in Urban Planning Institute and later in architectural studio of Yuri Mitjurev. In 1997 he joined international company RMJM and served as senior designer, project architect and European Studio co-principal, working in the firm’s offices in UK, Middle East and later in Russia. In 2011 Philipp Nikandrov joined the leading Russian design company GORPROJECT as its chief architect, managing the architectural design of few high-rise projects in Moscow and Saint-Petersburg.\n\nAs design team leader he participated in numerous international and regional design competitions. Most notable amongst his large-scale projects from competition to realization was Okhta Centre (2006-2010) and later Lakhta Centre (from 2011) - Gazprom Headquarters in Saint-Petersburg with 465m tower component, which construction ends in 2018 and will rank as Europe’s tallest skyscraper targeting LEED Gold certification for its achievements in sustainable design.\n\nAs project architect and chief designer Philipp Nikandrov has delivered the Moscow’s Evolution Tower from its earlier concept to completion (2004-2015).\n\nEvolution Tower received international and national awards (second place in Emporis Skyscraper Awards in 2016, the featured finalist of 2015 CTBUH Best Tall Building Awards and finalist of MIPIM Award 2016, FIABCI 2018 Prix d'Excellence (gold for the best class A office building),etc).\n\nPhilipp Nikandrov is an author of high-profile publications and participant of architectural exhibitions and international conferences such as CTBUH, UNESCO World Heritage, Forum 100+, Skyscrapers Asia Summit 2017 in Singapore (as its chairman), etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24648862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24648862", "title": "Poldowski", "text": "Poldowski\n\nPoldowski was the professional pseudonym of a Belgian-born British composer and pianist born Régine Wieniawski (16 May 187928 January 1932), daughter of the Polish violinist and composer Henryk Wieniawski. Some of her early works were published under the name Irène Wieniawska. She married Sir Aubrey Dean Paul, 5th Baronet (1869–1961), becoming Lady Dean Paul. Her name appears in a number of forms:\n\nRégine Wieniawski was born on 16 May 1879 in Ixelles, Brussels, where her father, the Polish virtuoso violinist and composer Henryk Wieniawski, had earlier settled on his appointment as a professor of the Brussels Conservatory. Her mother was an Englishwoman, Isabelle Bessie Wieniawski (née Hampton), the niece of Irish pianist and composer George Alexander Osborne (who studied under Johann Peter Pixis, François-Joseph Fétis and Friedrich Kalkbrenner and was a close friend of Frédéric Chopin and Hector Berlioz) and a member of a London family that had had associations with Rossini, Meyerbeer, Jenny Lind, Michael William Balfe and Anton Rubinstein. She was named Régine after her paternal grandmother Regina Wolff.\n\nIt is sometimes stated that Régine was born a few weeks after the death of her father. However, this seems to be an error caused by some earlier sources stating she was born in May 1880 rather than May 1879; her father died on 31 March 1880, in Moscow, while on a concert tour, when Irene was ten months old.\n\nHer musical studies are also disputed. She initially studied piano with a Miss Ellis. She told her official biographers that she entered the Brussels Conservatoire at age 12, studying piano with Pierre Storck and composition with François-Auguste Gevaert. Later she continued her studies in London with Michael Hambourg and Percy Pitt. After her marriage she returned to Paris to study with André Gedalge, and after her first child died she studied under Vincent d'Indy at the Schola Cantorum de Paris. However, some of the above is contradicted by the fact that her name does not appear in any records of the Brussels Conservatory.\n\nIn 1887, aged eight, she was introduced to and befriended by Nellie Melba, then making her debut at La Monnaie. In 1893, aged 14, she publicly performed some of her own compositions. She was a neighbour of Octave Maus and her songs \"Cortège\" and \"Cythère\" were dedicated to Maus and his wife Madeleine.\n\nIn 1896, Régine Wieniawski and her mother moved to London. There she published some early works under the name Irène Wieniawska. In 1901, she married a descendant of the 1st Duke of Marlborough, Sir Aubrey Edward Henry Dean Paul, 5th Bt (19 October 1869 – 16 January 1961) to whom she had been introduced by Nellie Melba. She thus became Lady Dean Paul, and adopted British nationality, but continued to publish works as \"Irène Wieniawska\" They had three children:\n\nThe early death of Lady Dean Paul's first-born son devastated her and ultimately led to the break-up of her marriage. It inspired three works, the songs \"Soir\" and \"Berceuse d'Armorique\", and the violin-piano piece \"Berceuse pour l'enfant mourant\". She then adopted the pseudonym Poldowski. \n\nGervase Elwes introduced her Paul Verlaine songs to the English concert stage in 1912 at the Queen's Hall. These songs then had a great vogue in Paris and this performance made a deep impression. He had been impressed with her music ever since he had first encountered it almost 20 years earlier, in 1893 in Brussels. He felt they showed \"great originality and for her age, great finish\". Elwes encountered her again in 1903, in Brussels, and she dedicated two of her songs to him. A concert of her songs she was to have given in the United States with Gervase Elwes in 1921 had to be cancelled when he was killed in a rail accident in Boston.\n\nShe moved to Brussels in the spring of 1912 after Queen Elizabeth of Belgium had expressed a desire to hear her. She accompanied Émile Chaumont in the premiere of her Violin Sonata in D minor, which was dedicated to Octave Maus, and was then performed in Paris by her close friend, the French pianist Lazare Lévy, whom she had met in Miss Ellis's class. Lévy premiered her piano solo piece \"Caledonian Market\", in 1923. In January 1912 her friend Henry Wood conducted the premieres of her \"Suite miniature\" and \"Nocturnes\" at the Sunday Concerts. In 1913 she returned to Brussels for the last time to accompany Jane Bathori-Engel in four of her Verlaine settings.\n\nShe and her family converted to Roman Catholicism in 1916. In 1919, at the Queen's Hall, Henry Wood accompanied Poldowski at the premiere of her piano and orchestra piece, \"Pat Malone's Wake\". She fell seriously ill in the autumn of 1913. In August 1919 Poldowski moved to the United States, where her \"symphonic opera\" \"Silence\" was published despite serious financial issues. She legally separated from her husband in 1921.\n\nShe returned to London in 1922; her regular visitors included playwright Alfred Sutro, mezzo-soprano Marguerite d'Alvarez, conductor Eugène Goossens, fils, harpsichordist Violet Gordon-Woodhouse, violinist Paul Kochanski and composer George Gershwin.\n\nHer 1923 series of midday recitals at the Hyde Park Hotel, known as \"The International Concerts of La Libre Esthétique\", attracted Arthur Rubinstein, Jacques Thibaud and the London String Quartet. She also opened a fashionable \"haute couture\" boutique where she produced several creations for the British Royal Family. On a 1925 tour of Spain, she was given a gift of a diamond bracelet by the King and Queen of Spain.\n\nShe later became seriously ill with pneumonia, her right lung was removed, and died of a heart attack on 28 January 1932, in London, aged 52.\n\nPoldowski was a gifted composer of songs, and her style shows strong influences of Claude Debussy. She set 22 French texts of Paul Verlaine, as well as English texts by William Blake, W. B. Yeats, Alfred, Lord Tennyson and others.\n\nRecently, the complete cycle of 22 songs has been transcribed for chamber ensemble by David Jackson. A recording of the complete cycle by Ensemble 1904, featuring the unpublished 22nd song \"Nous deux (Donc, ce sera par un clair jour d'été)\", was to be released by Resonus Classics in 2017.\n\n\nHer other works include:\n\nMany of her larger works are lost. Her complete catalogue of music, including unpublished works, compiled by David Mooney, is available at SMI Music Theses Register.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "392443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=392443", "title": "Sani Abacha", "text": "Sani Abacha\n\nSani Abacha (; 20 September 1943 – 8 June 1998) was a Nigerian Army officer and politician who served as the \"de facto\" President of Nigeria from 1993 to 1998.\n\nA Kanuri from Borno, Abacha was born and brought up in Kano, Nigeria. He attended the Nigerian Military Training College and Mons Officer Cadet School before being commissioned as a 2nd lieutenant in 1963.\n\nAbacha was commissioned in 1963 after he had attended Mons Officer Cadet School in Aldershot, England. Before then, he had attended the Nigerian Military Training College in Kaduna.\n\nAbacha's military career is distinguished by a string of successful coups. He is by some records the most successful coup plotter in the history of Nigeria's military. Abacha, then a 2nd Lieutenant with the 3rd Battalion in Kaduna, took part in the July 1966 Nigerian counter-coup from the conceptual stage. He may have been a participant in the Lagos or Abeokuta phases of the coup the previous January as well.\n\nHe was also a prominent figure in the 1983 Nigerian coup d'état which brought General Muhammadu Buhari to power in 1983, and the August 1985 coup which removed Buhari from power. When General Ibrahim Babangida was named President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 1985, Abacha was named Chief of Army Staff. He was appointed Minister of Defence in 1990.\n\nIn 1993, Abacha became the first Nigerian soldier to attain the rank of a full General without skipping a single rank.\n\nOn 17 November 1993, Abacha overthrew the short-lived transitional government of Chief Ernest Shonekan. In September 1994, he issued a decree that placed his government above the jurisdiction of the courts, effectively giving him absolute power. Another decree gave him the right to detain anyone for up to three months without trial.\n\nThe Abacha administration became the first to record unprecedented economic achievements: he oversaw an increase in the country's foreign exchange reserves from $494 million in 1993 to $9.6 billion by the middle of 1997, reduced the external debt of Nigeria from $36 billion in 1993 to $27 billion by 1997, brought all the controversial privatization programs of the Babangida administration to halt, reduced an inflation rate of 54% inherited from Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida to 8.5% between 1993 and 1998, all while the nation's primary commodity, oil was at an average of $15 per barrel.\n\nAbacha's government was accused of human rights abuses, especially after the hanging of Ogoni activist Ken Saro-Wiwa by the Oputa Commission (only one of several executions of Ogoni activists opposed to the exploitation of Nigerian resources by the multinational petroleum company, Royal Dutch Shell Group); Moshood Abiola and Olusegun Obasanjo were jailed for treason, and Wole Soyinka charged in absentia with treason. His regime suffered opposition externally by pro-democracy activists. He however supported the Economic Community of West African States and sent Nigerian troops to Liberia and Sierra Leone to help restore democracy to those countries.\n\nDespite being repeatedly condemned by the US State Department, Abacha did have a few ties to American politics. In 1997, Senator James Inhofe (R-Oklahoma) travelled to Nigeria to meet with Abacha as a representative of the \"Family\", a group of evangelical Christian politicians and civic leaders. Abacha and the Family had a business and political relationship from that point until his death. Abacha also developed ties with other American political figures such as Senator Carol Moseley Braun, Rev. Jesse Jackson and Minister Louis Farrakhan. Several African American political leaders visited Nigeria during his reign and Farrakhan supported his administration.\n\nDuring Abacha's regime, he and his family reportedly stole a total of £5 billion from the country's coffers. In 2004, Abacha was listed as the fourth most corrupt leader in history. During a service marking the 10th anniversary of the death of the dictator, several former Nigerian heads of state, including Gen. Muhammadu Buhari, refuted claims that Abacha looted the country, claiming such accusations are \"baseless\".\nAbacha's national security adviser, Alhaji Ismaila Gwarzo, played a central role in the looting and transfer of money to overseas accounts. His son Mohammed Abacha and best friend Alh. Mohammed M. Sada were also involved.\n\nA preliminary report published by the Abdulsalam Abubakar transitional government in November 1998 described the process. Sani Abacha told Ismaila Gwarzo to provide fake funding requests, which Abacha approved. The funds were usually sent in cash or travellers' cheques by the Central Bank of Nigeria to Gwarzo, who took them to Abacha's house. Mohammed Sada then arranged to launder the money to offshore accounts. But several calls for the prosecution of MM.Sada were turned down by the Olusegun Obasanjo presidency even after being indicted by the Justice Oputa lead Human Rights Violation Investigation Commission (popularly known as Oputa Panel). An estimated $1.4 billion in cash was delivered in this way.\n\nIn March 2014, the United States Department of Justice revealed that it had frozen more than $458 million believed to have been illegally obtained by Abacha and other corrupt officials.\n\nEarly in 1998, Abacha announced that elections would be held in August of the same year, with a view toward handing power to a civilian government on 1 October. It soon became apparent, though, that Abacha had no intention of permitting an honest election; by April he had strong-armed the country's five parties into endorsing him as the sole presidential candidate.\n\nAbacha died in June 1998 while at the presidential villa in Abuja. He was buried on the same day, according to Muslim tradition, without an autopsy. This fueled speculation that he may have been executed extrajudicially by way of being poisoned by political rivals via prostitutes. The government identified the cause of death as a sudden heart attack. It is reported that he was in the company of two Indian prostitutes imported from Dubai. It is thought that the prostitutes laced his drink with a poisonous substance, making Abacha feel unwell around 4:30am. He retired to his bed and was dead by 6:15am.\n\nAfter Abacha's death, Maj. Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, Nigeria's Chief of Defence Staff, was sworn in as the country's head of state. Abubakar had never before held public office and was quick to announce a transition to democracy, which led to the election of President Olusegun Obasanjo.\n\nAbacha was married to Maryam Abacha and had seven sons and three daughters. He left fifteen grandchildren: eight girls and seven boys.\n\nAbacha's legacy is mixed. His administration oversaw ECOMOG military successes in West Africa that raised Nigeria's military profile. In February 2014, during Nigeria's centenary celebrations, the Nigerian government honoured Abacha for his contributions to the country's development though Nobel Laureate Wole Soyinka who was similarly honored by the administration of President Goodluck Jonathan criticized the honor bestowed on Abacha by rejecting the honor, noting it as the 'canonization of terror'. Soyinka further noted that by honouring Abacha, the government of Goodluck Jonathan had gathered \"a century’s accumulated degeneracy in one preeminent symbol, then place[d] it on a podium for the nation to admire, emulate and even – worship\". Abacha was largely unpopular in southern Nigeria because of his administration's human rights abuses, execution of Ken Saro Wiwa, resulting in Nigeria attaining a pariah status internationally.\n\nThe names of Abacha, his wife Maryam, and son Mohammed are often used in advance fee fraud (419) scams; he is identified in scam letters as the source for money that does not exist.\n\nAfter Abacha's death, the Obasanjo government implicated Abacha and his family in a wholesale looting of Nigeria's coffers. The late dictator's son, Mohammed Abacha, continues to maintain that all the assets in question were legitimately acquired. In 2002, Abacha's family purportedly agreed to return $1.2 billion that was taken from the central bank.\n\nOn 7 August 2014, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) announced the largest forfeiture in the DOJ's history: the return of $480 million to the Nigerian government. Assistant Attorney General Caldwell noted that \"rather than serve his country, General Abacha used his public office in Nigeria to loot millions of dollars, engaging in brazen acts of kleptocracy\". “With this judgment, we have forfeited $480 million in corruption proceeds that can be used for the benefit of the Nigerian people. Through the Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Initiative, the Department of Justice’s Criminal Division denies kleptocrats like Abacha the fruits of their crimes, and protects the U.S. financial system from money laundering. In coordination with our partners in Jersey, France and the United Kingdom, we are helping to end this chapter of corruption and flagrant abuse of office.”\n\nAccording to the DOJ forfeiture, the assets returned to the Nigerian government represented proceeds of corruption during and after the military regime of General Abacha. The complaint alleges that General Abacha, his son Mohammed Sani Abacha, their associate Abubakar Atiku Bagudu and others embezzled, misappropriated and extorted billions of dollars from the government of Nigeria and others, then laundered their criminal proceeds through U.S. financial institutions and the purchase of bonds backed by the United States. As alleged in the complaint, General Abacha and others systematically embezzled billions of dollars in public funds from the Central Bank of Nigeria under a false national security imperative. The complaint further alleged that Abacha and his conspirators withdrew the funds in cash and then moved the money overseas through U.S. financial institutions. General Abacha and his finance minister also allegedly caused the government of Nigeria to purchase Nigerian government bonds at vastly inflated prices from a company controlled by Bagudu and Mohammed Abacha, generating an illegal windfall of more than $282 million. In addition, Abacha and his associates allegedly extorted more than $11 million from a French company and its Nigerian affiliate in connection with payments on government contracts. Funds involved in each of these schemes were allegedly laundered through the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "1009110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1009110", "title": "Shiva Naipaul", "text": "Shiva Naipaul\n\nShiva Naipaul (; 25 February 1945 – 13 August 1985), born Shivadhar Srinivasa Naipaul in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, was a Trinidadian and British novelist and journalist.\n\nShiva Naipaul was the younger brother of novelist V. S. Naipaul. He went first to Queen's Royal College and St Mary's College in Trinidad, then emigrated to Britain, having won a scholarship to study Chinese at University College, Oxford. At Oxford, he met and later married Jenny Stuart, with whom he had a son, Tarun.\n\nWith Jenny's support, Shiva Naipaul wrote his first novel, \"Fireflies\" (1970), which won the Winifred Holtby Memorial Prize from the Royal Society of Literature for best regional novel. It was followed by \"The Chip-Chip Gatherers\" (1973). He then decided to concentrate on journalism, and wrote two non-fiction works, \"North of South\" (1978) and \"Black & White\" (1980), before returning to the novel form in the 1980s with \"A Hot Country\" (1983), a departure from his two earlier comic novels set in Trinidad, as well as a collection of fiction and non-fiction, \"\" (1984).\n\nOn the morning of 13 August 1985, at the age of 40, Naipaul had a fatal heart attack while working at his desk.\n\n\"The Spectator\" magazine, for which his wife Jenny had worked as a secretary, and which had published many of his articles, established the Shiva Naipaul Memorial Prize.\n\nIn Paul Theroux's \"Sir Vidia's Shadow\", a memoir of Shiva's elder brother, V. S. Naipaul, Theroux described Shiva as a \"sot\", shrunken by the towering figure of his successful brother, with a penchant for drunken partying and a need to have his meals made for him. Theroux also took issue with Naipaul's skills as a writer, particularly as a travel writer.\n\n\"Sir Vidia's Shadow\" has come under attack for what are described as inaccuracies, and the novelist Martin Amis wrote that \"Shiva Naipaul was one of those people who caused your heart to lift when he entered the room ... in losing him, we have lost thirty years of untranscribed, unvarnished genius\".\n\nAn \"Arena\" documentary on his brother V. S. Naipaul reproduced footage of Shiva from an earlier documentary from the early 1980s, in which Shiva returned to Trinidad to see his mother.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42794198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42794198", "title": "Sir Barry Denny, 2nd Baronet", "text": "Sir Barry Denny, 2nd Baronet\n\nSir Barry Denny, 2nd Baronet (died 20 October 1794) was an Anglo-Irish politician.\n\nDenny was the son of Sir Barry Denny, 1st Baronet and Jane Denny. He served as an officer in the Kerry Militia, eventually becoming a Major. Following his father's death in April 1794, he became a baronet and was elected to his late father's seat in the Irish House of Commons, representing Kerry. He also served as High Sheriff of Kerry in 1794. At a by-election for the seat in October that year, Denny promised to remain neutral and not come between the Crosbie, Blennerhassett and Herbert families who were contesting the seat. One of the candidates, John Gustavus Crosbie, took offence at one of Denny's remarks which he took to be a breach of his neutrality, and challenged him to a duel. Denny was shot through the head and killed by Crosbie in the ensuing duel. He had married Anne Morgell, the daughter of Crosbie Morgell, on 12 January 1794, and died without issue. He was about to be raised to the Peerage of Ireland as Baron Denmore when he was killed.\n"}
{"id": "2252727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2252727", "title": "Solar Designer", "text": "Solar Designer\n\nAlexander Peslyak (Александр Песляк) (born 1977), better known as Solar Designer, is a security specialist from Russia. He is best known for his publications on exploitation techniques, including the return-to-libc attack and the first generic heap-based buffer overflow exploitation technique, as well as computer security protection techniques such as privilege separation for daemon processes. \n\nPeslyak is the author of the widely popular password cracking tool John the Ripper. His code has also been used in various third-party operating systems, such as OpenBSD and Debian.\n\nPeslyak has been the founder and leader of the Openwall Project since 1999. He is the founder of Openwall, Inc. and has been the CTO since 2003. He served as an advisory board member at the Open Source Computer Emergency Response Team (oCERT) from 2008 until oCERT's conclusion in August 2017. He also co-founded oss-security.\n\nHe has spoken at many international conferences, including FOSDEM and CanSecWest. He wrote the foreword to Michał Zalewski's 2005 book \"Silence on the Wire\".\n\nAlexander received the 2009 \"Lifetime Achievement Award\" during the annual Pwnie Award at the Black Hat Security Conference. In 2015 Qualys acknowledged his help with the disclosure of a GNU C Library codice_1 function buffer overflow (CVE-2015-0235).\n\n"}
{"id": "1577663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1577663", "title": "Spring-heeled Jack", "text": "Spring-heeled Jack\n\nSpring-heeled Jack is an entity in English folklore of the Victorian era. The first claimed sighting of Spring-heeled Jack was in 1837. Later sightings were reported all over Great Britain and were especially prevalent in suburban London, the Midlands and Scotland.\n\nThere are many theories about the nature and identity of Spring-heeled Jack. This urban legend was very popular in its time, due to the tales of his bizarre appearance and ability to make extraordinary leaps, to the point that he became the topic of several works of fiction.\n\nSpring-heeled Jack was described by people who claimed to have seen him as having a terrifying and frightful appearance, with diabolical physiognomy, clawed hands, and eyes that \"resembled red balls of fire\". One report claimed that, beneath a black cloak, he wore a helmet and a tight-fitting white garment like an oilskin. Many stories also mention a \"Devil-like\" aspect. Others said he was tall and thin, with the appearance of a gentleman. Several reports mention that he could breathe out blue and white flames and that he wore sharp metallic claws at his fingertips. At least two people claimed that he was able to speak comprehensible English.\n\nIn the early 19th century, there were reports of ghosts that stalked the streets of London. These human-like figures were described as pale; it was believed that they stalked and preyed on lone pedestrians. The stories told of these figures formed part of a distinct ghost tradition in London which, some writers have argued, formed the foundation of the later legend of Spring-heeled Jack.\n\nThe most important of these early entities was the Hammersmith Ghost, which in 1803 and 1804 was reported in Hammersmith on the western fringes of London; it would later reappear in 1824. Another apparition, the Southampton ghost, was also reported as assaulting individuals in the night. This particular spirit bore many of the characteristics of Spring-heeled Jack, and was reported as jumping over houses and being over tall.\n\nThe first alleged sightings of Spring-heeled Jack were made in London in 1837 and the last reported sighting is said in most of the secondary literature to have been made in Liverpool in 1904.\n\nAccording to much later accounts, in October 1837 a girl by the name of Mary Stevens was walking to Lavender Hill, where she was working as a servant, after visiting her parents in Battersea. On her way through Clapham Common, a strange figure leapt at her from a dark alley. After immobilising her with a tight grip of his arms, he began to kiss her face, while ripping her clothes and touching her flesh with his claws, which were, according to her deposition, \"cold and clammy as those of a corpse\". In panic, the girl screamed, making the attacker quickly flee from the scene. The commotion brought several residents who immediately launched a search for the aggressor, but he could not be found.\n\nThe next day, the leaping character is said to have chosen a very different victim near Mary Stevens' home, inaugurating a method that would reappear in later reports: he jumped in the way of a passing carriage, causing the coachman to lose control, crash, and severely injure himself. Several witnesses claimed that he escaped by jumping over a high wall while babbling with a high-pitched, ringing laughter.\n\nGradually, the news of the strange character spread, and soon the press and the public gave him the name \"Spring-heeled Jack\".\n\n A few months after these first sightings, on 9 January 1838, the Lord Mayor of London, Sir John Cowan, revealed at a public session held in the Mansion House an anonymous complaint that he had received several days earlier, which he had withheld in the hope of obtaining further information. The correspondent, who signed the letter \"a resident of Peckham\", wrote:\n\nThough the Lord Mayor seemed fairly sceptical, a member of the audience confirmed, \"servant girls about Kensington, Hammersmith and Ealing, tell dreadful stories of this ghost or devil\". The matter was reported in \"The Times\" on 9 January, other national papers on 10 January and, on the day after that, the Lord Mayor showed a crowded gathering a pile of letters from various places in and around London complaining of similar \"wicked pranks\". The quantity of letters that poured into the Mansion House suggests that the stories were widespread in suburban London. One writer said several young women in Hammersmith had been frightened into \"dangerous fits\" and some \"severely wounded by a sort of claws the miscreant wore on his hands\". Another correspondent claimed that in Stockwell, Brixton, Camberwell and Vauxhall several people had died of fright and others had had fits; meanwhile, another reported that the trickster had been repeatedly seen in Lewisham and Blackheath.\n\nThe Lord Mayor himself was in two minds about the affair: he thought \"the greatest exaggerations\" had been made, and that it was quite impossible \"that the ghost performs the feats of a devil upon earth\", but on the other hand someone he trusted had told him of a servant girl at Forest Hill who had been scared into fits by a figure in a bear's skin; he was confident the person or persons involved in this \"pantomime display\" would be caught and punished. The police were instructed to search for the individual responsible, and rewards were offered.\n\nA peculiar report from \"The Brighton Gazette\", which appeared in the 14 April 1838 edition of \"The Times\", related how a gardener in Rosehill, Sussex, had been terrified by a creature of unknown nature. \"The Times\" wrote that \"Spring-heeled Jack has, it seems, found his way to the Sussex coast\", even though the report bore little resemblance to other accounts of Jack. The incident occurred on 13 April, when it appeared to a gardener \"in the shape of a bear or some other four-footed animal\". Having attracted the gardener's attention by a growl, it then climbed the garden wall and ran along it on all fours, before jumping down and chasing the gardener for some time. After terrifying the gardener, the apparition scaled the wall and made its exit.\n\nPerhaps the best known of the alleged incidents involving Spring-heeled Jack were the attacks on two teenage girls, Lucy Scales and Jane Alsop. The Alsop report was widely covered by the newspapers, including a piece in \"The Times\", while fewer reports appeared in relation to the attack on Scales. The press coverage of these two attacks helped to raise the profile of Spring-heeled Jack.\n\nJane Alsop reported that on the night of 19 February 1838, she answered the door of her father's house to a man claiming to be a police officer, who told her to bring a light, claiming \"we have caught Spring-heeled Jack here in the lane\". She brought the person a candle, and noticed that he wore a large cloak. The moment she had handed him the candle, however, he threw off the cloak and \"presented a most hideous and frightful appearance\", vomiting blue and white flame from his mouth while his eyes resembled \"red balls of fire\". Miss Alsop reported that he wore a large helmet and that his clothing, which appeared to be very tight-fitting, resembled white oilskin. Without saying a word he caught hold of her and began tearing her gown with his claws which she was certain were \"of some metallic substance\". She screamed for help, and managed to get away from him and ran towards the house. He caught her on the steps and tore her neck and arms with his claws. She was rescued by one of her sisters, after which her assailant fled.\n\nEight days after the attack on Miss Alsop, on 28 February 1838, 18-year-old Lucy Scales and her sister were returning home after visiting their brother, a butcher who lived in a respectable part of Limehouse. Miss Scales stated in her deposition to the police that as she and her sister were passing along Green Dragon Alley, they observed a person standing in an angle of the passage. She was walking in front of her sister at the time, and just as she came up to the person, who was wearing a large cloak, he spurted \"a quantity of blue flame\" in her face, which deprived her of her sight, and so alarmed her, that she instantly dropped to the ground, and was seized with violent fits which continued for several hours.\n\nHer brother added that on the evening in question, he had heard the loud screams of one of his sisters moments after they had left his house and on running up Green Dragon Alley he found his sister Lucy on the ground in a fit, with her sister attempting to hold and support her. She was taken home, and he then learned from his other sister what had happened. She described Lucy's assailant as being of tall, thin, and gentlemanly appearance, covered in a large cloak, and carrying a small lamp or bull's eye lantern similar to those used by the police. The individual did not speak nor did he try to lay hands on them, but instead walked quickly away. Every effort was made by the police to discover the author of these and similar outrages, and several persons were questioned, but were set free.\n\n\"The Times\" reported the alleged attack on Jane Alsop on 2 March 1838 under the heading \"The Late Outrage At Old Ford\". This was followed with an account of the trial of one Thomas Millbank, who, immediately after the reported attack on Jane Alsop, had boasted in the Morgan's Arms that he was Spring-heeled Jack. He was arrested and tried at Lambeth Street court. The arresting officer was James Lea, who had earlier arrested William Corder, the Red Barn Murderer. Millbank had been wearing white overalls and a greatcoat, which he dropped outside the house, and the candle he dropped was also found. He escaped conviction only because Jane Alsop insisted her attacker had breathed fire, and Millbank admitted he could do no such thing. Most of the other accounts were written long after the date; contemporary newspapers do not mention them.\n\nAfter these incidents, Spring-heeled Jack became one of the most popular characters of the period. His alleged exploits were reported in the newspapers and became the subject of several penny dreadfuls and plays performed in the cheap theatres that abounded at the time. The devil was even renamed \"Spring-heeled Jack\" in some Punch and Judy shows, as recounted by Henry Mayhew in his \"London Labour and the London Poor\":\n\nBut, even as his fame was growing, reports of Spring-heeled Jack's appearances became less frequent if more widespread. In 1843, however, a wave of sightings swept the country again. A report from Northamptonshire described him as \"the very image of the Devil himself, with horns and eyes of flame\", and in East Anglia reports of attacks on drivers of mail coaches became common. In July 1847 \"a Spring-heeled Jack investigation\" in Teighnmouth, Devon led to a Captain Finch being convicted of two charges of assault against women during which he is said to have been \"disguised in a skin coat, which had the appearance of bullock's hide, skullcap, horns and mask\". The legend was linked with the phenomenon of the \"Devil's Footprints\" which appeared in Devon in February 1855.\n\nIn the beginning of the 1870s, Spring-heeled Jack was reported again in several places distant from each other. In November 1872, the \"News of the World\" reported that Peckham was \"in a state of commotion owing to what is known as the \"Peckham Ghost\", a mysterious figure, quite alarming in appearance\". The editorial pointed out that it was none other than \"Spring-heeled Jack, who terrified a past generation\". Similar stories were published in \"The Illustrated Police News\". In April and May 1873, there were numerous sightings in Sheffield of the \"Park Ghost\", which locals also came to identify as Spring-heeled Jack. \n\nThis news was followed by more reported sightings, until in August 1877 one of the most notable reports about Spring-heeled Jack came from a group of soldiers in Aldershot's barracks. This story went as follows: a sentry on duty at the North Camp peered into the darkness, his attention attracted by a peculiar figure \"advancing towards him.\" The soldier issued a challenge, which went unheeded, and the figure came up beside him and delivered several slaps to his face. A guard shot at him, with no visible effect; some sources claim that the soldier may have fired blanks at him, others that he missed or fired warning shots. The strange figure then disappeared into the surrounding darkness \"with astonishing bounds.\"\n\nLord Ernest Hamilton's 1922 memoir \"Forty Years On\" mentions the Aldershot appearances of Spring-heeled Jack; however, he (apparently erroneously) says that they occurred in the winter of 1879 after his regiment, the 60th Rifles, had moved to Aldershot, and that similar appearances had occurred when the regiment was barracked at Colchester in the winter of 1878. He adds that the panic became so great at Aldershot that sentries were issued ammunition and ordered to shoot \"the night terror\" on sight, following which the appearances ceased. Hamilton thought that the appearances were actually pranks, carried out by one of his fellow officers, a Lieutenant Alfrey. However, there is no record of Alfrey ever being court-martialled for the offence.\n\nIn the autumn of 1877, Spring-heeled Jack was reportedly seen at Newport Arch, in Lincoln, Lincolnshire, wearing a sheep skin. An angry mob supposedly chased him and cornered him, and just as in Aldershot a while before, residents fired at him to no effect. As usual, he was said to have made use of his leaping abilities to lose the crowd and disappear once again.\n\nBy the end of the 19th century the reported sightings of Spring-heeled Jack were moving towards the north west of England. Around 1888, in Everton, north Liverpool, he allegedly appeared on the rooftop of Saint Francis Xavier's Church in Salisbury Street. In 1904 there were reports of appearances in nearby William Henry Street.\n\nNo one was ever caught and identified as Spring-heeled Jack; combined with the extraordinary abilities attributed to him and the very long period during which he was reportedly at large, this has led to numerous and varied theories of his nature and identity. While several researchers seek a normal explanation for the events, other authors explore the more fantastic details of the story to propose different kinds of paranormal speculation.\n\nSceptical investigators have dismissed the stories of Spring-heeled Jack as mass hysteria which developed around various stories of a bogeyman or devil which have been around for centuries, or from exaggerated urban myths about a man who clambered over rooftops claiming that the Devil was chasing him.\nOther researchers believe that some individual(s) may have been behind its origins, being followed by imitators later on. Spring-heeled Jack was widely considered not to be a supernatural creature, but rather one or more persons with a macabre sense of humour. This idea matches the contents of the letter to the Lord Mayor, which accused a group of young aristocrats as the culprits, after an irresponsible wager. A popular rumour circulating as early as 1840 pointed to an Irish nobleman, the Marquess of Waterford, as the main suspect. Haining suggested this may have been due to him having previously had bad experiences with women and police officers.\n\nThe Marquess was frequently in the news in the late 1830s for drunken brawling, brutal jokes and vandalism, and was said to do anything for a bet; his irregular behaviour and his contempt for women earned him the title \"the Mad Marquis\", and it is also known that he was in the London area by the time the first incidents took place. In 1880 he was named as the perpetrator by E. Cobham Brewer, who said that the Marquess \"used to amuse himself by springing on travellers unawares, to frighten them, and from time to time others have followed his silly example.\" In 1842, the Marquess married and settled in Curraghmore House, County Waterford, and reportedly led an exemplary life until he died in a riding accident in 1859.\n\nSceptical investigators have asserted that the story of Spring-heeled Jack was exaggerated and altered through mass hysteria, a process in which many sociological issues may have contributed. These include unsupported rumours, superstition, oral tradition, sensationalist publications, and a folklore rich in tales of fairies and strange roguish creatures. Gossip of alleged leaping and fire-spitting powers, his alleged extraordinary features and his reputed skill in evading apprehension captured the mind of the superstitious public—increasingly so with the passing of time, which gave the impression that Spring-heeled Jack had suffered no effects from ageing. As a result, a whole urban legend was built around the character, being reflected by contemporary publications, which in turn fuelled this popular perception.\n\nA variety of wildly speculative paranormal explanations have been proposed to explain the origin of Spring-heeled Jack, including that he was an extraterrestrial entity with a non-human appearance and features (e.g., retro-reflective red eyes, or phosphorus breath) and a superhuman agility deriving from life on a high-gravity world, with his jumping ability and strange behaviour, and that he was a demon, accidentally or purposefully summoned into this world by practitioners of the occult, or who made himself manifest simply to create spiritual turmoil.\n\nFortean authors, particularly Loren Coleman and Jerome Clark, list \"Spring-heeled Jack\" in a category named \"phantom attackers\", with another well-known example being the \"Mad Gasser of Mattoon\". Typical \"phantom attackers\" appear to be human, and may be perceived as prosaic criminals, but may display extraordinary abilities (as in Spring-heeled Jack's jumps, which, it is widely noted, would break the ankles of a human who replicated them) and/or cannot be caught by authorities. Victims commonly experience the \"attack\" in their bedrooms, homes or other seemingly secure enclosures. They may report being pinned or paralysed, or on the other hand describe a \"siege\" in which they fought off a persistent intruder or intruders. Many reports can readily be explained psychologically, most notably as the \"Old Hag\" phenomenon, recorded in folklore and recognised by psychologists as a form of hallucination. In the most problematic cases, an \"attack\" is witnessed by several people and substantiated by some physical evidence, but the attacker cannot be verified to exist.\n\nThe vast urban legend built around Spring-heeled Jack influenced many aspects of Victorian life, especially in contemporary popular culture. For decades, especially in London, his name was equated with the bogeyman, as a means of scaring children into behaving by telling them if they were not good, Spring-heeled Jack would leap up and peer in at them through their bedroom windows, by night.\n\nHowever, it was in fictional entertainment where the legend of Spring-heeled Jack exerted the most extensive influence, owing to his allegedly extraordinary nature. Three pamphlet publications, purportedly based on the real events, appeared almost immediately, during January and February, 1838. They were not advertised as fiction, though they likely were at least partly so. The only known copies were reported to have perished when the British Library was hit during The Blitz, but their catalog still lists the first one.\n\nThe most notable fictional Spring-heeled Jacks of the 19th and early 20th centuries were:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA similar figure known as Pérák, the Spring Man of Prague was reported to have been seen in Czechoslovakia around 1939–1945. As writers such as Mike Dash have shown, the elusiveness and supernatural leaping abilities attributed to Pérák bear a close resemblance to those exhibited by Spring-heeled Jack, and distinct parallels can be drawn between the two entities. The stories of Pérák provide a useful example of how the traits of Spring-heeled Jack have a broad cultural resonance in urban folklore. Pérák, like Spring-heeled Jack, went on to become a folklore hero, even starring in several animated superhero cartoons, fighting the SS, the earliest of which is Jiří Trnka's 1946 film \"Pérák a SS\" or \"Springman and the SS\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17838670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17838670", "title": "Stacy (singer)", "text": "Stacy (singer)\n\nUmmu Syaikhah Stacy binti Anam (born 18 August 1990), known professionally as Stacy, is a Malaysian singer, songwriter who rose to fame after winning the sixth season of \"Akademi Fantasia\", receiving 43% of over 3.8 million votes. Her debut album, \"Aku Stacy\", was released on 9 March 2009. She's also known as Malaysia's Dancing Queen, and has been cited as \"Ratu Pop\".\n\nStacy competed against thirteen other contestants to win Season 6 of \"Akademi Fantasia\". The judging panel often harbours her performances with praises every week for being consistent, which implied her as the front-runner of the season. Ramli M.S., the academy principal of AF6 complimented Stacy as a loyal student who is very serious in learning something new. According to him, Stacy is always focus during each lesson and applied all the lessons that she learned during her performances on stage. Throughout the competition, Stacy remained at top three when the voting session was closed at the end of every concert, with four collective highest votes. Before the finale concert, three out of four media reporters predicted her to be the winner of the show. At the end of the finale, the prediction came true when she was crowned as the sixth winner of the show, beating four other students, with a vote of 43%.\n\nStacy's coronation song \"Aku Stacy\" was released immediately after her win and it became a huge success. The song quickly became her first number one single in Carta Era for two weeks, as well as topping Carta 30 Era at number one. It stayed in the chart for 22 weeks, making its own history as one of the songs that stayed in the chart for a long period of time. The single also entered Muzik FM chart at number 9. The song slowly climbed to top the chart at No. 1, making it as Stacy's first No. 1 single in the chart. In Hot FM 30, the song only managed to peak at number 14 before finally dropping out from the chart. In Muzik Muzik, it peaked at No. 3.\n\nFollowing the successful release of her first single, Stacy's own show \"Aku Stacy\" was launched in Astro Ria. The show featured her journey in the entertainment industry after her win. In the meantime, her first compilation live album, \"The Best of Stacy\" was released in September 2008 which featured all of her ten performances in Akademi Fantasia, excluding the fifth concert. The album was well-received as it sold thousand copies in the first week.\n\nIn December 2008, the song \"Aku Stacy\" made it to the final round of Anugerah Juara Lagu, an annual award show in Malaysia to honour the best Malay song every year, a rare accomplishment made by newcomers in the industry.Despite her busy schedules to be fully prepared for Anugerah Juara Lagu, Stacy's second single, \"Gagap\", premiered in the season finale of . The song is commercially successful as it becomes her second single to reach Top 5 in most charts. In Carta Era, the single has peaked at number 2 and was held off by Adam's \"Benar-Benar\". In Carta Hot Fm, the song debuted at number 17 and went to peak at number 5. The song also entered Carta Muzik FM at number 10, and eventually peaked at number 4. In Carta Muzik Muzik, the second peaked at number 2, being held of by Adam's \"Benar-Benar\". Along with Nubhan, fellow student of AF6, Stacy was listed fourth in Murai's list of \"Most Outstanding Newcomers of 2008\".\n\nIn February 2009, Stacy was short-listed as the top 5 finalist for three major categories in Anugerah Bintang Popular, namely Most Popular Artiste, Most Popular Female New Artist, as well as Most Popular Female Singer, where she was voted as the Most Popular Female New Artist. Stacy was also given a certificate of recognition by Sabah's Ministry of Sport and Youth (KBS) for her on-going efforts to improve herself as a newcomer in entertainment industry. She was also recognised as Sabah's youth icon and idol in the entertainment industry.\n\nHer debut album, \"Aku Stacy\", was released on 9 March 2009. She worked closely with notable local composers such as Ajai, Adi Mok as well as Edry KRU and Kieran Kuek. Just like the previous winners of Akademi Fantasia, she gets the opportunity to launch her album in her own town which takes place in Kota Kinabalu.\n\nStacy's third single, \"Pakai Buang\" was released on 9 May 2009. The song slowly climbs national charts and so far is peaking at No. 5 in Carta Muzik FM. In Carta , \"Pakai Buang\" debuted at number 5 and is currently peaking at No. 4. In June 2009, Stacy was nominated in Shout! Awards 2009 for the category of Popstar Award, in which she won. She was also being nominated in two categories of 2009 Anugerah Planet Muzik, which are Best Vocal Performance in a Song for New Female Artiste as well as Most Popular Malaysian Artiste which was won by Siti Nurhaliza by only 1%. Stacy was voted second.\n\nIn March 2011, Stacy participated in Astro Mania! contest where Malaysia's established singers compete amongst themselves to be crowned the Superstar. Stacy was selected by M. Nasir to join his red team. She remained at Top 5 every week in the competition until the finals. She ended up as runner-up winning RM250,000.\n\nHer second album, entitled \"Stay-C\" was released on 9 September 2011. The album contains eight new songs, with the lead radio single, \"Kisah Dongeng\". The album is produced by Astro and distributed by Warner Music Malaysia.\n\nOn 11 November 2011, Stacy's new single \"Kasanova\" was officially launched with behind the scenes footage, special acoustics performances and the world premiere of \"Kasanova\" music video.\n\n\"Pelangi Senja\" was released as the third single from Stay-C. The song was a commercial success, peaking atop Hot.fm and charts. The ballad showcased Stacy's versatile vocals, with critics praising her vocal performance in the song. The song was also hailed at No.2 as the most popular song in Malaysia in 2012. Stacy managed to get to the final of the 27th Anugerah Juara Lagu. The video was released in July 2012.\n\nThe success of her final single from Stay-C, \"Bosan\" is proven when the song managed to compete in the grand final of AJL28 in January 2014. It was her fifth time competing in the final round of the most prestigious musical event in Malaysia. Her performance was received with mixed reviews by critics.\n\nStacy's third album, \"#1\" was released on 17 May 2014 at Zouk KL. The album contains 10 songs, including the single, \"Gilalah\" and the collaboration with Indonesian boyband, SM*SH, \"Hello\". The album has 2 CDs, whereby CD2 features remix version of the songs. Besides Malaysia, the album was released in Singapore, Indonesia and Brunei. The album proved Stacy's artistry as she was involved directly in the making of the album from the beginning to the end.\n\nStacy proved herself once again as a consistent artist when her first single \"Gilalah\" made it to the final of in 2015. \"Gilalah\" was a commercial success, having been played on the mainstream radios such as ERA.fm and Hot.fm every so often. It was the first song where Stacy was involved in making the lyrics totally. The video of the single was directed by herself and first showed exclusively on .\n\nIn September 2014, Stacy released the video of \"Patah\" a promotional single from the album. Despite the solid vocal performance, the song failed to crack the radio charts.\n\nStacy made a triumphant comeback to the music and radio charts with her third single, \"Not For Sale\" featuring Malaysian famous rapper , which charted highly on most radio charts, as well as topping the Muzik-Muzik charts. \"Not For Sale\" also became a soundtrack for Malay popular drama \"Tuan Anas Mikael\". The accompanying music video was released on 4 August 2015. The song also brought Stacy to her 7th AJL appearance in January 2016. Although she was sick a day before her performance, she wowed the audiences with her vocals and moves.\n\nIt is confirmed that Stacy would release a new single entitled \"Romeo\" in December 2015. The single was later released on 30 January 2016. Her husband, Akim wrote the song for her. After her marriage with Akim, she released a song called \"Bila-Bila\" which discusses her love for her husband. The song was released on Team Sangat Gila Stacy channel on YouTube on 22 October 2016. Stacy later took a break from music due to pregnancy and taking care of her family.\n\nAfter about a year hiatus, Stacy released her new dance-pop single titled \"Cakap Ke Tangan\" on 25 August 2017. The song is written by her husband, Akim Ahmad and Laq. The official music video for the single was released on 13 October 2017 and is directed by Casper, whom she works with for \"Not For Sale\" video.\n\nIn July 2018, Stacy announced that she is not renewing her contract with her management company, Rocketfuel Entertainment. She has been with the company since her Akademi Fantasia debut in 2008. She also announced that she has set-up her own talent management company, Rhyme & Rhythm Music Entertainment with husband, Akim.\n\n\n\nStacy was born in Kota Kinabalu to Anam Bayar and Agnes Kaloos. She began her studies at SRK St. Joseph, then to St. Michael's Secondary School, Penampang. Due to her family's financial problem, she had no choice but to drop out of school at the age of 16 when she was in Secondary 4. To support her family, she became a singer in local clubs.\n\nPrior to her audition for AF6, Stacy tried out for other notable singing reality shows, such as One in a Million 1, and also Gang Starz in which she teamed up with her brother, Camellus De'lleli Anam, to form a group named E-voke. However, she only made it to the semi-finals before they were booted out. Her decision to audition for AF6 was derived from her mother's suggestion as soon as she turned 18.\n\nStacy was also given a full scholarship to continue her studies in Limkokwing University Of Creative Technology. She studied in diploma of music and art, and began her first semester in February 2010.\n\nStacy was a Christian before embracing Islam in August 2015, and chose \"Ummu Syaikhah Stacy binti Anam\" as her Muslim name. Stacy married Malaysian singer-songwriter in Kota Kinabalu, Sabah in 2016. On 17 February 2017, the couple welcomed their first child, a daughter named Eshaal.\n\nStacy is currently the ambassador for Clinelle (a skin care product), Cornetto, SilkyGirl and Intimate. In 2013, she was appointed as Drive M7 (an energy drink) ambassador, together with Aaron Aziz and Fizo Omar. Stacy also appears in Kit Kat and Digi advertisements along with her husband, .\n\nStacy was a spokesperson for BOH Tea (2009), Power Root-Ali Cafe (2009), Canon Malaysia (2009) and Corntoz Mamee Double-Decker (2009).\n"}
{"id": "36648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36648", "title": "Stevie Nicks", "text": "Stevie Nicks\n\nStephanie Lynn Nicks (born May 26, 1948) is an American singer and songwriter. Nicks is best known for her work as a songwriter and vocalist with Fleetwood Mac, and also for her chart-topping solo career. She is known for her distinctive voice, mystical stage persona, and poetic, symbolic lyrics. Collectively, her work both as a member of Fleetwood Mac and as a solo artist has produced over 40 top-50 hits and sold over 140 million records, making her one of the best-selling music acts of all time with Fleetwood Mac.\n\nNicks has been named one of the 100 Greatest Songwriters of All Time, and as one of the world's top \"100 Greatest Singers of All Time\" by \"Rolling Stone\". As a member of Fleetwood Mac, she was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1998. She has garnered eight Grammy Award nominations and two American Music Award nominations as a solo artist. She has won numerous awards with Fleetwood Mac, including a Grammy Award and five Grammy Award nominations.\n\nNicks joined Fleetwood Mac in 1975 along with her then boyfriend, Lindsey Buckingham. \"Rumours\", Fleetwood Mac's second album after the incorporation of Nicks and Buckingham, was the best-selling album of the year of its release and to date has sold over 40 million copies worldwide, making it the fifth biggest-selling studio album of all time. The album remained at number one on the American albums chart for 31 weeks and reached number one in various countries worldwide. The album won the Grammy Award for Album of the Year in 1978. It produced four U.S. top-10 singles, with Nicks' \"Dreams\" being the band's first and only U.S. number-one hit.\n\nIn 1981, while remaining a member of Fleetwood Mac, Nicks began her solo career, releasing the album \"Bella Donna\", which topped the \"Billboard\" album charts and has reached multiplatinum status. She has released a total of eight solo studio albums to date, with her most recent, titled \"\", released in October 2014.\n\nStephanie \"Stevie\" Nicks was born at Good Samaritan Hospital in Phoenix, Arizona, to Jess Nicks (July 2, 1925 – August 10, 2005), former president of Greyhound's Armour-Dial, and Barbara Nicks (November 12, 1927 – December 29, 2011), a homemaker. Nicks's grandfather, Aaron Jess \"A.J.\" Nicks, Sr. (May 18, 1892 – August 1, 1974), a struggling country music singer, taught Nicks to sing duets with him by the time she was four years old. Nicks's mother was so protective that she kept her at home \"more than most people\" and during that time fostered in her daughter a love of fairy tales. The infant Stephanie could pronounce her own name only as \"tee-dee\", which led to her nickname of \"Stevie\".\nHer father's frequent relocation as a food business executive had the family living in Phoenix, Albuquerque, El Paso, Salt Lake City, Los Angeles, and San Francisco during Nicks's youth. With the Goya guitar that she received for her 16th birthday, Nicks wrote her first song, \"I've Loved and I've Lost, and I'm Sad But Not Blue\". She spent her adolescence playing records constantly, and lived in her \"own little musical world.\" While attending Arcadia High School in Arcadia, California, she joined her first band, the Changing Times, a folk rock group focused on vocal harmonies.\n\nNicks first met her future musical and romantic partner, Lindsey Buckingham, during her senior year at Menlo-Atherton High School. When she saw Buckingham playing \"California Dreamin'\" at Young Life club, she joined him in harmony. She later recalled, \"I was a senior in high school and Lindsey was a junior. And we went to a Young Life meeting – which was a religious meeting that simply got you out of the house on Wednesday nights – and um, he was there and I was there and we sat down and played \"California Dreaming\". I thought he was a darling. I didn't see him again for two years and he called me up and asked if I wanted to be in a band... And so, I was in this band with him for three and a half years – a band called Fritz.\"\n\nBuckingham was in a psychedelic rock band named Fritz, but two of its musicians were leaving for college. He asked Nicks in mid 1967 to replace the lead singer, a guitarist named Jody Moreing. For the next three years, Fritz was composed of Nicks on lead vocals, Buckingham on bass and vocals, Brian Kane on lead guitar, Javier Pacheco on keyboards, and Bob Aguirre on drums. Pacheco was the main songwriter in the group, with a psychedelic bent, but Nicks's own compositions brought a country rock flair to the group. Fritz became popular as a live act when it opened for both Jimi Hendrix and Janis Joplin from 1968 until 1970. Nicks credits each of those acts as having inspired her own stage intensity and performance. Both Nicks and Buckingham attended San Jose State University, where Nicks majored in speech communication and planned to become an English teacher. Nicks dropped out of college the semester before graduation.\n\nAfter Fritz disbanded in 1972, Nicks and Buckingham continued to write as a duo, recording demonstration tapes at night in Daly City on a one-inch, four-track Ampex tape machine Buckingham kept at the coffee-roasting plant belonging to his father, Morris. They then secured a deal with Polydor Records, which used tracks from their demo tapes to release the album \"Buckingham Nicks\" in 1973. The album was not a commercial success, despite the live shows that Nicks and Buckingham performed together to support it, and Polydor dropped the pair from the label. To support herself and Buckingham, who wrote music while recovering from mononucleosis, Nicks worked a variety of jobs, which included waiting tables and a stint cleaning engineer/producer Keith Olsen's house, where Nicks and Buckingham lived for a time before moving in with Richard Dashut. Nicks says that she first used cocaine during this time. \"We were told that it was recreational and that it was not dangerous,\" Nicks recalled to Chris Isaak in 2009.\n\nNicks and Buckingham moved in with Dashut in 1972. While there, Buckingham landed a guitar-playing gig with the Everly Brothers and toured with them while Nicks stayed behind working on songs. During this time, Nicks wrote \"Rhiannon\" after seeing the name in the novel \"Triad\" by Mary Leader. She also wrote \"Landslide\", inspired by the scenery of Aspen, and her inner turmoil over her decision to pursue music and her relationship with Buckingham:\n\n\"I realized then that everything could tumble, and when you're in Colorado, and you're surrounded by these incredible mountains, you think 'avalanche'. It meant the whole world could tumble around us and the landslide would bring you down.\" \"Everybody seems to think that I wrote this song about them... and my dad, my dad did have something to do with it, but he absolutely thinks that he was the whole complete reason it was ever written. I guess it was about September 1974, I was home at my dad and mom's house in Phoenix, and my father said, 'You know, I think that maybe... you really put a lot of time into this [her singing career], maybe you should give this six more months, and if you want to go back to school, we'll pay for it ... Lindsey and I went up to Aspen, and we went to somebody's incredible house, and they had a piano, and I had my guitar with me, and I went into their living room, looking out over the incredible, like, Aspen sky way, and I wrote \"Landslide\"... three months later, Mick Fleetwood called.\"\n\nNicks and Buckingham joined Fleetwood Mac in January 1975, six weeks after Keith Olsen played their track \"Frozen Love\" for drummer Mick Fleetwood, who had come to Sound City in California in search of a studio to record Fleetwood Mac's next album. Fleetwood remembered Buckingham's guitar work when guitarist Bob Welch departed to pursue a solo career. On December 31, 1974, Fleetwood called Buckingham to ask him to replace Welch as guitarist, but Buckingham insisted that Nicks and he were \"a package deal.\" A few days later, Nicks and Buckingham discussed the offer over dinner with Fleetwood and the McVies, and the feeling was mutual that incorporating the Buckingham–Nicks pair would improve Fleetwood Mac, making the British band into an Anglo-American one. The first rehearsals confirmed this feeling, with the harmonies of the newcomers adding a pop accessibility to the hard rock. Despite this development, the duo of Buckingham-Nicks was called to perform three sold-out dates in Birmingham, Alabama – the one area in which their album had seen success. During these final performances as Buckingham-Nicks, Nicks and Buckingham told their fans that they had just joined Fleetwood Mac.\nIn 1975, the band achieved worldwide success with the album \"Fleetwood Mac\". Nicks's \"Rhiannon\", which appeared on the album, was eventually voted as one of The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time by \"Rolling Stone\". Her live performances of the song throughout the decade began to take on a theatrical intensity not present on the album's single. The song built to a climax in which Nicks's vocals were so impassioned that Mick Fleetwood declared, \"her 'Rhiannon' in those days was like an exorcism.\" Also included on the album was \"Landslide\", which achieved over three million airplays and spawned multiple cover versions.\n\nAlso in 1975, Nicks worked with clothing designer Margi Kent to develop Nicks's unique onstage look, with costumes that featured flowing skirts, shawls, and platform boots.\n\nFollowing the success of \"Fleetwood Mac\", increasing tension between Nicks and Buckingham began to take its toll on their creativity, and Nicks ended the relationship. Fleetwood Mac began recording their follow-up album, \"Rumours\", in early 1976 and continued until late in the year. Also, Nicks and Buckingham sang back-up on Warren Zevon's self-titled second album.\n\nAmong Nicks's contributions to \"Rumours\" was \"Dreams\", which became the band's only \"Billboard\" Hot 100 number-one hit single to date. Nicks had also written and recorded the song \"Silver Springs\", but it was ultimately not included on the album because the early versions of the song ran too long, the album was getting to be longer than the producer's target of 22 minutes per side, and the band was also concerned that the album had too many slow songs. Instead, the shorter and faster Nicks-penned tune \"I Don't Want to Know\" was recorded in its place. Studio engineer and co-producer Ken Caillat said that Nicks was very unhappy to find that the band had decided against her song \"Silver Springs\", which he said was beautifully crafted, and carried some of the band's best guitar work. Despite being devastated by the bad news, Nicks quickly laid down her vocal tracks for \"I Don't Want to Know\". Nicks's song \"Silver Springs\" was written about her relationship with Buckingham, and it was released as a B-side of the \"Go Your Own Way\" single—Buckingham's song about Nicks. Copies of the single eventually became collectors' items among fans of Fleetwood Mac. \"Silver Springs\" was included on the four-disc Fleetwood Mac retrospective \"25 Years – The Chain\" in 1992.\n\nIn November 1977, after a New Zealand concert for the \"Rumours\" tour, Nicks and Fleetwood, who was married to Jenny Boyd, secretly began an affair. The pair mutually decided to end the affair. \"Never in a million years could you have told me that would happen,\" Nicks has stated. \"Everybody was angry, because Mick was married to a wonderful girl and had two wonderful children. I was horrified. I loved these people. I loved his family. So it couldn't possibly work out. And it didn't. I just couldn't.\" She has also stated that had the affair progressed, it \"would have been the end of Fleetwood Mac\". Soon after, in October 1978, Mick Fleetwood left his wife for Nicks's best friend Sara Recor.\n\nAfter the success of the \"Rumours\" album and tour in 1977 to 1978, Fleetwood Mac began recording their third album with Buckingham and Nicks, \"Tusk\", in the spring of 1978. That year, Nicks sang back-up on virtually every track of \"Not Shy\", recorded by musician Walter Egan, a friend of both Nicks and Buckingham. One track, \"Magnet and Steel\", inspired by Nicks, prominently featured her on back-up vocals and became a hit single on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart during the summer of 1978.\nLindsey Buckingham also produced the album, and played guitar and provided backing vocals on some of the tracks.\n\nBy 1978, Nicks had amassed a large backlog of songs dating back to her Buckingham Nicks days that she had been unable to record and release with Fleetwood Mac because of the constraint of having to accommodate three songwriters on each album. Nicks wrote and recorded demos for a solo project during \"Tusk\" sessions in 1979 and the \"Tusk\" world tour of 1979–80. Nicks, Danny Goldberg, and Paul Fishkin founded Modern Records to record and release Nicks's material. Nicks recorded the hit duets \"Whenever I Call You Friend\" with Kenny Loggins in 1978, and \"Gold\" with John Stewart in 1979.\n\nFleetwood Mac's \"Tusk\" was released on October 19, 1979. During 1981, Nicks made occasional guest appearances with Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers on their \"Hard Promises\" tour.\n\nNicks' first solo album, \"Bella Donna\", was released on July 27, 1981, to critical and commercial acclaim, reaching number one on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart, with four singles making the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, and \"Rolling Stone\" deeming her \"the Reigning Queen of Rock and Roll\".\n\nThe day that \"Bella Donna\" reached number one on the \"Billboard\" 200, Nicks found out that her best friend Robin Anderson was diagnosed with leukemia in 1981. Robin was told she only had three months to live, and also was told she was going to give birth. Robin gave birth to a son, appointing Nicks as the child's godmother. \"I never got to enjoy \"Bella Donna\" at all because my friend was dying. Something went out that day; something left.\" Following Robin's death in 1982, Nicks married Robin's widower Kim Anderson, believing that her friend would want her to care for the baby. \"We were all in such insane grief, just completely deranged,\" she told \"The Telegraph\" in 2007. The couple divorced three months after the marriage.\n\n\"Bella Donna\" introduced Nicks' back-up singers, Sharon Celani and Lori Perry, who have contributed vocals to all of Nicks' solo albums since then. In November 1981, Nicks embarked on the \"White Winged Dove\" tour, which she had to cut short to record the \"Mirage\" album with Fleetwood Mac. Nicks toured with Fleetwood Mac for the \"Mirage\" tour in late 1982.\n\nNicks released her second solo album, \"The Wild Heart\", on June 10, 1983. The album went double platinum, reached number five on the \"Billboard\" 200 albums chart, and featured three hit singles. It also introduced songwriter and performer Sandy Stewart as co-writer and vocalist.\n\nNicks performed at the second US Festival at Glen Helen Regional Park in San Bernardino, California, and later toured the US from June 1983 to November 1983. Nicks appeared on \"Saturday Night Live\" in December 1983, performing \"Stand Back\" and \"Nightbird\".\n\nFollowing the tour for \"The Wild Heart\", Nicks commenced work on her third solo album. Originally titled \"Mirror Mirror\", Nicks recorded songs for the album during 1984. However, Nicks was unhappy with the album, and opted to record a new batch of songs in 1985. \"Rock A Little\", as it was retitled, was released November 18, 1985, to commercial success, supported by three successful singles.\n\nNicks toured for \"Rock A Little\" in 1986. The tour ended on October 10, 1986. Nicks also performed with Bob Dylan and Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers during their tour in Australia.\n\nThe tour marked a turning point in Nicks' life. The January before the tour was to begin, a plastic surgeon warned her of severe health problems if she did not stop using cocaine. \"I said, 'What do you think about my nose?',\" she recalled on \"The Chris Isaak Hour\" in 2009. \"And he said, 'Well, I think the next time you do a hit of cocaine, you could drop dead. As Stevie said “I used to carry a gram of cocaine in my boot at all times,” as said in a 2013 interview.'\" At the end of the Australian tour, Nicks checked herself into the Betty Ford Center for 30 days to overcome her cocaine addiction. Recalling the strong influence of Janis Joplin and Jimi Hendrix on her music and life, she told a UK interviewer, \"I saw how they went down, and a part of me wanted to go down with them ... but then another part of me thought, I would be very sad if some 25-year-old lady rock and roll singer ten years from now said, 'I wish Stevie Nicks would have thought about it a little more.' That's kind of what stopped me and made me really look at the world through clear eyes.\"\n\nLater that year, on the advice of friends concerned that she might relapse, she visited a psychiatrist who prescribed the sedative Klonopin to help her remain free from cocaine.\n\nIn late 1985, Fleetwood Mac began work on \"Tango in the Night\", but due to her promotional schedule for the \"Rock A Little\" album and subsequent tour, Nicks was mostly unavailable to work on the album with the band except for a few weeks following her stay at the Betty Ford Center in 1986 (which was the inspiration for the song \"Welcome To The Room...Sara\"). She sent the band demos of her songs to work on in her absence. The album was released in April 1987 and became the band's second-highest selling album ever, behind \"Rumours\".\n\nCreative differences and unresolved personal issues within the band led Buckingham to quit the group right before their world tour. According to bassist John McVie, a \"physically ugly\" confrontation between Nicks and Buckingham ensued when Nicks angrily challenged Buckingham's decision to leave the band.\n\nThe band embarked on the \"Shake The Cage\" tour in September 1987, with Buckingham replaced by Rick Vito and Billy Burnette. The tour was suspended during Nicks' bout with chronic fatigue syndrome and developing addiction to Clonazepam, though it resumed in 1988. \"Tango in the Night\" met with commercial success and was followed in 1988 by Fleetwood Mac's \"Greatest Hits\" album in November 1988.\n\nAlso in 1988, Nicks began work on a fourth solo album with English record producer Rupert Hine. \"The Other Side of the Mirror\" was released on May 11, 1989, to commercial success. Nicks became romantically involved with Hine.\n\nNicks toured the US and Europe from August to November 1989, the only time she has toured Europe as a solo act. She has famously been quoted since as stating that she has \"no memory of this tour\" due to her increasing dependency on Clonazepam, prescribed in ever increasing amounts by a psychiatrist between 1987 and 1994, in an attempt to keep Nicks from regressing to her former abuse of cocaine.\n\nIn 1989, Nicks set to work with Fleetwood Mac on a new album, \"Behind the Mask\", which was released in 1990 to moderate commercial success in the US. In the UK, however, the album entered the chart at number one and was certified platinum. The band went on a world tour to promote the album, on the last night of which Buckingham and Nicks reunited on stage to perform \"Landslide\". After the tour concluded, Nicks left the group over a dispute with Mick Fleetwood, who would not allow her to release the 1977 track \"Silver Springs\" on her album \"\", because of his plans to save it for release on a forthcoming Fleetwood Mac box set. Fleetwood knew that the song would be valuable as a selling point for the box set, since over the years, it had gained interest among the band's fans.\n\nOn the 10th anniversary of her solo career debut, Nicks released \"Timespace: The Best of Stevie Nicks\" on September 3, 1991. The following year, Fleetwood Mac also released a four-disc box set, \"25 Years – The Chain\", which included \"Silver Springs\".\n\nDuring the 1992 US presidential campaign, Bill Clinton used the Fleetwood Mac hit \"Don't Stop\" as his campaign theme song, and Nicks rejoined the classic \"Rumours\" line-up of the band (including Buckingham) to perform the song at Clinton's 1993 inaugural gala. No plans for an official reunion were made at that time. Nicks was criticized for her weight gain. Nicks, who is , had gained weight, peaking at 175 lbs (79.4 kg). \"Klonopin was worse than the cocaine,\" she has said. \"I lost those 8 years of my life. I didn't write, and I had gained so much weight.\"\n\nIn late 1993, while Nicks held a baby shower at her house, she tripped over a box, passed out, and cut her forehead near a fireplace. \"I'm one of those people who doesn't injure themselves. I was horrified to see that blood. I hadn't had enough wine. I knew it was the Klonopin,\" she said, realizing that she needed help, and endured a painful 47-day detox in a hospital.\n\nFollowing her successful detox, Nicks released her fifth solo album, \"Street Angel\", recorded during 1992 and 1993 using material written mostly in previous years. Released on May 23, 1994, \"Street Angel\" was poorly received, reaching number 45 on the \"Billboard\" Top 200. Nicks has since expressed major disappointment with the album, claiming that a lot of its production work took place during her second stint in rehab, meaning she had little or no say over the final product. Despite a three-month tour in support of the album, Nicks was crushed by the focus on her weight and the poor reception of the album. Disgusted by the criticism she received during the tour for being overweight, she vowed to never set foot on a stage again unless she slimmed down.\n\nIn 1996, Nicks reunited with Lindsey Buckingham and contributed the duet \"Twisted\" to the \"Twister\" movie soundtrack, while in 1996, the Sheryl Crow-penned \"Somebody Stand by Me\" featured on the \"Boys on the Side\" soundtrack, and Nicks also remade Tom Petty's \"Free Fallin'\" for Fox's TV hit \"Party of Five\".\n\nIn 1996, Lindsey Buckingham, working on a planned solo album, enlisted the help of Mick Fleetwood and John McVie, which eventually led to a reunion of the entire band. A newly invigorated and slimmed-down Nicks joined Fleetwood Mac for \"The Dance\", a highly successful 1997 tour that coincided with the 20th anniversary of the release of \"Rumours\". Prior to the tour, Nicks started work with a voice coach, to lend her voice more control and protect it from the stress of lengthy touring schedules. She also went on a diet and started jogging to lose weight.\n\nThe live CD release, \"The Dance\", was released to commercial and critical acclaim, earning the group several Grammy nominations, including their live performance of Nicks' \"Silver Springs\".\n\nIn 1998, she joined the group for its induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. That same year, Fleetwood Mac was awarded the Outstanding Contribution at the BRIT Awards.\n\nShe put work on a new solo album on hold when she was approached by Warner Music to release a solo career-spanning box set, to finish her contract with Atlantic Records in the US. After the culmination of the Fleetwood Mac reunion tour, Nicks settled down in Los Angeles and Phoenix with close friends and colleagues to devise a track list for this three-disc collection.\n\nThe box set \"Enchanted\" was released to acclaim on April 28, 1998, with liner notes from Nicks, as well as exclusive rare photographs, and pages from her journals. Nicks supported the box set with a successful US tour. In 1998, Nicks contributed to the \"Practical Magic\" soundtrack and performed in Don Henley's benefit concert for the Walden Woods Project.\n\nNicks had begun writing actively for \"Trouble in Shangri-La\" in 1994 and 1995 as she came out of her Klonopin dependency. According to her, friend and former musical partner Tom Petty was responsible for convincing her to write music again when he rebuffed her request that he write a song with her. She resumed recording songs for the \"Trouble in Shangri-La\" album with Sheryl Crow, who produced and performed on several tracks. When a scheduling conflict forced Crow to drop out of the project, Nicks first approached R&B producer Dallas Austin, but these sessions have never surfaced. Nicks finally called on John Shanks to produce the remainder of the album, with additional contributions from David Kahne, Rick Nowels, Pierre Marchand, and Jeff Trott. Artists Natalie Maines, Sarah McLachlan, and Macy Gray contributed to some of the tracks.\n\nReleased May 1, 2001, \"Trouble in Shangri-La\" restored Nicks's solo career to critical and commercial success. \"Planets of the Universe\" was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance, and Nicks was named VH1's \"Artist of the Month\" for May 2001. Nicks was named one of \"People\" magazine's 50 Most Beautiful People, was featured in a well-received \"Behind the Music\" episode, and performed an episode of the VH1 Storytellers Concert Program. Nicks made several television appearances in support of the album and performed at the 2001 Radio Music Awards.\n\nNicks supported the album with a successful tour, although some shows were canceled or postponed because of her bout with acute bronchitis. Shows were also canceled because of the September 11 attacks in the U.S.\n\nIn 2001, Fleetwood Mac began work on a new studio album, though this time without Christine McVie, leaving Nicks as the sole woman in the band for the first time. After the end of her solo tour, Nicks convened with the other members of the band for recording during 2002.\n\n\"Say You Will\" was released in April 2003 and met with commercial success but mixed reviews. Nicks joined the group to support the album with a world tour lasting until September 2004.\n\nShe has subsequently stated in several interviews that she was not happy with the album or the successful world tour that followed, citing production disputes with Buckingham as a core factor, as well as the absence of fellow female band member Christine McVie. A documentary of the making of the album, \"Destiny Rules\", was released on DVD in 2004 and chronicles the sometimes-turbulent relationships between band members, especially Buckingham and Nicks, during that time in the studio.\n\nAfter a few months' respite from the \"Say You Will\" tour, Nicks did a four-night stint in May 2005 at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas, and then did 10 shows with Don Henley dubbed the \"Two Voices\" tour. During the summer of 2005, Nicks continued doing solo shows (\"Gold Dust\" tour) with pop singer Vanessa Carlton as the opening act, playing over 20 dates nationwide.\n\nOn March 27, 2007, Reprise Records released \"Crystal Visions – The Very Best of Stevie Nicks\" in the US. The album debuted at number 21 on the \"Billboard\" 200 albums chart. The album has sold over 505,000 copies in the U.S.\n\nThe compilation includes her hit singles, a dance remix, and one new track, a live version of Led Zeppelin's \"Rock and Roll\". Two versions of this album were made, one with just the audio CD and a deluxe version which includes a DVD featuring all of Nicks' music videos with audio commentary from Nicks herself, as well as rare footage from the \"Bella Donna\" recording sessions.\n\nA tour with Chris Isaak, opening in Concord, California on May 17, 2007, supported the release.\n\nReprise Records initially released two radio-only promos, the live version of \"Landslide\" with the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra and \"Rock and Roll\". Both tracks failed to garner much airplay and made no impact on the charts. Reprise Records released \"Stand Back\" (issued with club mixes) on May 29, 2007. \"Stand Back\", which peaked at number five on the pop singles chart in 1983, reached number two on the \"Billboard\" Club chart. Nicks previously reached number one on this chart, with \"Planets of the Universe\" (from \"Trouble in Shangri-La\") in 2001. The remix single of \"Stand Back\" debuted on the \"Billboard\" Hot Singles Sales chart on September 15, 2007, at number 10, peaking at number four the following week. It also debuted on the \"Billboard\" Hot Dance Singles Sales chart at number three, later peaking at number one .\n\nOn March 31, 2009, Nicks released the album, \"The Soundstage Sessions\", via Reprise Records. The album debuted at number 47 on the \"Billboard\" 200 albums chart. The first single from the album, \"Crash into Me\", was released as a digital download, along with \"Landslide\" (orchestra version) as a B-side, on March 17, 2009.\n\nIn late 2008, Fleetwood Mac announced that the band would tour in 2009, beginning in March. As per the 2003–04 tour, Christine McVie would not be featured in the line-up. The tour was branded as a 'greatest hits' show titled \"Unleashed\", although they played album tracks such as \"Storms\" and \"I Know I'm Not Wrong\".\n\nAfter completing the \"Unleashed\" tour with Fleetwood Mac, Nicks began work on her first solo album in a decade with David A. Stewart, a musician and record producer best known for being one half of the duo Eurythmics.\n\nNicks performed in a series of shows in August 2010 (\"it's not really a tour\", she said). They did not contain any of her new music, because she did not want it to end up on YouTube. The Santa Barbara show benefited a young girl she had met through the Make-a-Wish Foundation in Los Angeles with rhabdomyosarcoma, a rare cancer.\n\nOn January 13, 2011, Reprise announced Nicks' upcoming album \"In Your Dreams\" would be released on May 3, and the lead single, \"Secret Love\", would be released on February 8. Reprise provided a free download of the single to fans who ordered the album via certain websites. Nicks originally wrote \"Secret Love\" in 1976 and recorded a demo of it for Fleetwood Mac's 1977 album, \"Rumours\". It did not make the final cut for the album. The demo version had been circulating among fans for many years prior to its inclusion on \"In Your Dreams\". Nicks promoted the song with a video directed by Dave Stewart. Nicks' goddaughter Kelly appears in the video wearing a vintage dress that Nicks wore on stage in 1976. According to Nicks, Kelly portrays the young Stevie Nicks blending with the soul of Nicks' 62-year-old self. On the US \"Billboard\" charts, \"Secret Love\" was a modest hit on the Adult Contemporary Singles chart, peaking at number 20, and at number 25 on the Triple-A Singles chart. Another song on the album, \"For What It's Worth\", features Nicks' niece in the video. The song reached number 25 on the \"Billboard\" Adult Contemporary chart in September 2011. A documentary film was made for the album, directed by Stewart. The documentary was critically acclaimed, and Nicks appeared at many film festivals to support the documentary.\n\nNicks promoted the album with appearances on various television shows, including \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\", \"The X Factor\", \"The Talk\", \"Good Morning America\", \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\", \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\". and \"Dancing with the Stars\".\n\n\"In Your Dreams\" was well received by music critics. \"Rolling Stone\" commented \"It's not just her first album in 10 years, it's her finest collection of songs since the Eighties\". The album debuted at number six on the \"Billboard\" 200, giving Nicks her fifth top-10 album on that chart, with 52,000 copies sold in the first week. Elsewhere, the album has made numerous top-50 debuts, including number 24 on the Australian ARIA chart, number 22 in Canada, and number 14 in the UK.\n\nThe same day that Nicks' new album was released, Fox Network broadcast the \"Glee\" episode (Season 2, Episode 19) \"Rumours\" that featured six songs from Fleetwood Mac's 1977 album, including Nicks' song \"Dreams\" (the band's only number-one song on the US charts). The show sparked renewed interest in the band and its most commercially successful album, and \"Rumours\" re-entered the \"Billboard\" 200 chart at number 11, the same week that \"In Your Dreams\" debuted at number six. (Nicks was quoted by \"Billboard\" saying that her new album was \"my own little \"Rumours\".\").\n\nNicks contributed a cover of Buddy Holly's \"Not Fade Away\" for the tribute album \"\", which was released in September 2011.\n\nOn March 29, 2012, Nicks made a guest appearance as herself on the NBC sitcom \"Up All Night\". The show featured an excerpt of the 1981 track \"Sleeping Angel\", as well as new duets with both Maya Rudolph and Christina Applegate of \"Whenever I Call You Friend\" and \"Edge of Seventeen\". Rudolph and Applegate have said they are fans of the singer. \n\nOn December 14, 2012, it was announced that Nicks would be featured on an original track done in collaboration with Dave Grohl for his Sound City soundtrack, alongside other artists.\n\nIn 2013, Fleetwood Mac toured again as a four-piece band throughout North America and Europe. On April 30, the band released their first new studio material since 2003's \"Say You Will\" via digital download on iTunes with the four-track EP, \"Extended Play\" containing three new songs and one new song from the Buckingham Nicks sessions (\"Without You\").\n\nOn December 3, 2013, Nicks released the \"In your Dreams\" documentary film on DVD. The DVD debuted at number seven on the \"Billboard\" Top Music Video sales chart and number 29 on the UK Music Video Top 40 chart.\n\nIn 2014, Nicks appeared on the third season of television series \"American Horror Story\" titled \"\". She played a fictional version of herself, portraying a \"white witch\" with supernatural powers in two episodes. On the show, she performed the songs \"Rhiannon\", \"Has Anyone Ever Written Anything For You?\", and \"Seven Wonders\". \"I said, 'That's perfect,'\" she told \"Us\" in response to the show's music request. \"Because that's exactly how I like to affect people. I want people to put my songs on because they are unhappy and need a boost to dance around their apartment a little and feel good. That's why I write. 'Of course you can use my music. Take it!'\" In May 2014, Nicks was honored with a BMI Icon Award. In July 2014, it was announced that Nicks would join \"The Voice\" as the adviser for Adam Levine's team.\n\nIn September 2014, Nicks released her eighth studio album, \"\" which reached number seven on the \"Billboard\" 200. She also began a North American tour with Fleetwood Mac, now reunited with Christine McVie, the On with the Show tour. The tour began in September 2014 and concluded in November 2015.\n\nIn May 2015, Nicks reissued \"Crystal Visions – The Very Best of Stevie Nicks\" on \"crystal clear\" transparent double vinyl. The vinyl came with a vinyl messenger bag and a limited-edition lithograph.\n\nThroughout 2016 and 2017, Nicks toured with The Pretenders on the 24 Karat Gold Tour.\n\nOn April 26, 2017, \"Pitchfork\" revealed that Nicks would be featured on a track from American singer Lana Del Rey's fifth studio album, \"Lust for Life\", which was released on July 21, 2017. The song is titled \"Beautiful People Beautiful Problems\".\n\nOn July 9, 2017, Nicks performed at the British Summer Time festival in Hyde Park in London, supporting Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers. She later performed \"Stop Draggin' My Heart Around\" with Petty as part of the Heartbreakers' set, in what would turn out to be their final performance of the song together before Tom Petty's death in October 2017.\n\nStanding at , Nicks has stated she felt \"a little ridiculous\" standing next to Mick Fleetwood, who is . For this reason, she developed a penchant for platform boots. \"Even when platforms went completely out of style, I kept wearing them because I didn't want to go back to being in heels\", she told \"Allure\" in 1995. Over the years, Nicks has developed a style which she calls her \"uniform\". Her “uniform” is known as a witchy kind of look that goes with her songs and performances.\n\nNicks has said that her vocal style and performance antics evolved from female singers like Grace Slick and Janis Joplin. She admitted inspiration when she saw Joplin perform live (and opened for with her first band Fritz) shortly before Joplin's death. Nicks owns a strand of Joplin's stage beads. She also commented that she once saw a woman in her audience dressed in dripping chiffon with a Gibson Girl hairstyle and big boots, and Nicks knew she wanted something similar. She took the look and made it her own. Nicks possesses the vocal range of a contralto and her voice has been described as a \"gruff, feathery alto\" Over the years, she has decorated her microphone stand with roses, ribbons, chiffon, crystal beads, scarves, and small stuffed toys.\nNicks has started a charity foundation titled \"Stevie Nicks' Band of Soldiers\" which is used for the benefit of wounded military personnel.\n\nIn late 2004, Nicks began visiting Army and Navy medical centers in Washington, D.C. While visiting wounded service men and women, Nicks became determined to find an object she could leave with the soldiers that would raise their spirits, motivate, and give them something to look forward to each day. She eventually decided to purchase hundreds of iPod Nanos, load them with music, artists, and playlists which she would hand select, and autograph them:\n\nShe now regularly delivers these tokens of her appreciation, bringing her closest friends, such as Mick Fleetwood, along to share the experience:\n\nNicks' style has remained the same throughout her years in the spotlight and even \"at 60 she is still working the gossamer tunics and shawls that have influenced two generations of Stevie acolytes, and given her performances the feel of a Wiccan ritual\" writes \"New York Times\" reporter Ruth La Ferla. Nicks has been known for her multiple wardrobe changes during live performances, almost having a new outfit for each song she sang. The cost to keep up her overall style, of hair, makeup, and wardrobe, was not cheap. Nicks filed tax deductible expenses in 1991 costing \"$12,495 for makeup and hairstyling [and] $43,291 for professional clothing and maintenance\". Stevie sings about the store where her iconic style all started in the song \"Gypsy\" on Fleetwood Mac's 13th studio album \"Mirage\", released in 1982. In the song, Stevie sings of a store called the Velvet Underground, a boutique in San Francisco, California where famous rockers like Janis Joplin and Grace Slick were known to shop. It is here at the Velvet Underground where Stevie's unique and easily recognizable style most notably began.\n\nMany artists have cited Nicks as a source of influence and musical inspiration. These have included Beyoncé and Destiny's Child, Echosmith, Courtney Love, Michelle Branch, Belinda Carlisle, the Dixie Chicks, Mary J. Blige, Sheryl Crow, Nadia Ali, Florence Welch, Taylor Swift, Vanessa Carlton, Delta Goodrem, and Lorde, who have cited Nicks as an inspiration.\n\nThe Dixie Chicks covered her 1975 classic \"Landslide\", which became a top-10 hit (number one on the Adult Contemporary chart) and a number one hit on the Country chart. This cover also earned her a BMI Songwriters Award in 2003 when it won Song of the Year (the award is given to the songwriter of the track, regardless of the performer). According to BMI, \"Landslide\" also earned Nicks the 35th Robert J. Burton Award as \"Most Performed Country Song of the Year\". This distinction is given to the song tallying the most feature US broadcast performances during the eligibility period. Included on the Dixie Chicks' platinum Monument album \"Home\", \"Landslide\" was a Country, Adult Top 40, Hot 100 and AC \"Billboard\" charts smash. Alternative rock band the Smashing Pumpkins made an acoustic cover of the song that was featured on their 1994 B-side collection \"Pisces Iscariot\".\n\nOther successful covers have included the Corrs' \"Dreams\" and Courtney Love's band Hole with \"Gold Dust Woman\". \"Edge of Seventeen\" was sampled on Destiny's Child's 2001 number one single \"Bootylicious\". Nicks appeared in the video for \"Bootylicious\" and in an episode of MTV's \"Making The Video\" that featured it, in which she expressed her admiration for both the song and the group. Also, American actress and singer Lindsay Lohan covered \"Edge of Seventeen\" on her second studio album \"A Little More Personal (Raw)\" (2005). Deep Dish fulfilled their \"Dreams\" of working with Nicks in 2005 when Nicks offered to re-record vocals on a remix of her number-one penned song, \"Dreams\". The Deep Dish version went on to reach number two on the \"Billboard\" Hot Dance Airplay chart, as well as providing Nicks with her third UK top-40 hit. Nicks provided additional vocals and writing on Vanessa Carlton's 2007 album, \"Heroes and Thieves\".\n\nOn January 31, 2010, Nicks performed with Taylor Swift at the 52nd Annual Grammy Awards. Swift, who describes Nicks as one of her childhood heroes, introduced her to the audience by saying, \"It's a fairy tale and an honor to share the stage with Stevie Nicks.\"\n\nNicks' only marriage was to Kim Anderson, the widower of her friend Robin Anderson. They married in 1983 soon after Robin Anderson died of leukemia and while the \"Bella Donna\" album was on the top of the charts. \"I was determined to take care of [Robin's] baby, so I said to Kim, 'I don't know, I guess we should just get married.\" Nicks and Anderson divorced after only three months: \"We didn't get married because we were in love, we got married because we were grieving and it was the only way that we could feel like we were doing anything.\" Years after their divorce, she reunited with her stepson when he was a teenager, putting him through college, and she has maintained contact with him ever since.\n\nNicks had been romantically linked to Lindsey Buckingham since 1966, briefly to Mick Fleetwood in 1977, Eagles drummer/vocalist Don Henley during the late 1970s, and briefly to Eagles songwriter J. D. Souther. She connected with Jimmy Iovine, who produced \"Bella Donna\" during 1980–81, and with Eagles and James Gang guitarist Joe Walsh during 1983–86, whom she referred to in 2007 as one of her greatest loves, though the couple could not sustain the relationship because of mutual drug abuse. Nicks toured with Walsh in 1984, and wrote \"Has Anyone Ever Written Anything for You?\" about Walsh's deceased daughter.\n\nNicks has said that she consciously chose not to have children of her own, due to her demanding career and desire to follow her art wherever it should take her: \"My mission maybe wasn't to be a mom and a wife; maybe my particular mission was to write songs to make moms and wives feel better.\" Of her niece, godchildren, and extended family she says: \"I have lots of kids. It's much more fun to be the crazy auntie than it is to be the mom, anyway.\"\n\nNicks has maintained a journal nearly every day since Fleetwood Mac began. \"I like to tell all my fairy goddaughters and my niece that when I'm gone they can sit on the floor and go through all these journals, and they can walk through my life, and they can smell the gardenia perfume on the pages. They can have it in their hands, who I was.\" Regarding a book based on her life, she has said, \"I wouldn't write a book unless I could really tell the truth, and say all the people are in it are represented right ... If I'm gonna talk about all the people in my life, I need to be old enough and so do they, that nobody's gonna care ... I would never write a book about the bad parts. I would mostly revel in the fantastic parts, of which there were so many.\"\n\nIn early 2007, reports surfaced concerning Lindsay Lohan's interest in buying the rights to Nicks' life story and developing a motion picture in which she planned to play her. In March 2007, while promoting her album \"Crystal Visions\", Nicks was asked about this rumor. She told \"Access Hollywood\", \"That is completely insane and crazy. There is no movie in the works on my life. Nobody can do a movie about my life without me being involved, because nobody knows what really happened in my life until I tell them. So, nobody can make a movie about my life. And if anybody ever went and made a movie about my life without my permission and my being involved, I would slam it so hard to the press that it would never do anything.\" In 2009, she told \"The New York Times\" about Lohan, \"Over my dead body. She needs to stop doing drugs and get a grip. Then maybe we'll talk.\"\n\nUntil July 2007, Nicks lived in Paradise Valley, Arizona, a suburb of Phoenix in a home she had built in 1981 and shared with her brother Chris, his wife Lori, and their daughter Jessica. She announced in mid-2007 that her Paradise Valley home would be put up for sale, citing her aspirations to \"downsize\" and focus more on her charity work, and that in the previous year she had only \"spent about two weeks there\". The house was put on the market for a reported $3.8 million and later sold for $3 million.\n\nNicks became an ordained minister with the Universal Life Church and officiated at the wedding of Deer Tick singer John McCauley and singer-songwriter Vanessa Carlton on December 27, 2013.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn October 2005, Nicks attended the Melbourne Cup Week in Australia, and one of the horse-racing stakes was named after her: The Stevie Nicks Plate. She used this opportunity to launch her promotion of an Australian/New Zealand extension to her \"Gold Dust\" tour in February and March 2006. Nicks toured in Australia and New Zealand with popular Australian performer John Farnham. She also appeared in concert with Tom Petty in June near Manassas, Virginia, and at the Bonnaroo Music Festival that same month.\n\nIn 2006, Nicks performed with Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers for the first leg of their tour in the summer, and later in the year returned as a guest performer for a number of songs on the tour celebrating Petty's 30th anniversary since his debut album. Tom Petty's Homecoming Concert in Gainesville, FL, which contained performances with Stevie Nicks, was filmed for PBS \"Soundstage\" as well as DVD release for March 2007. Nicks was also the featured performer for Bette Midler's benefit function, Hulaween, in October 2006.\n\nBeginning in May 2007, Nicks began touring with pop/rock artist Chris Isaak. The last Stevie Nicks/Chris Isaak show was June 17, 2007, at the Tweeter Center in Boston. Nicks continued the tour solo, with Vanessa Carlton opening on some dates. The tour finished at The Borgata in Atlantic City on August 24, 2007.\n\nIn 2008, Nicks embarked on the \"Soundstage Sessions\" tour in the U.S. A video recording of one concert date was released in 2009: \"Live in Chicago\". Vanessa Carlton performed as a guest artist.\n\nIn 2009, Fleetwood Mac embarked on a global hits tour. The \"Unleashed\" tour took place in arenas on multiple continents. The tour ended in December with two sell-out shows of 35,000 people at the New Plymouth TSB Bowl of Brooklands in New Zealand.\n\nRod Stewart and Nicks co-headlined \"The Heart and Soul\" tour. Launched March 20, 2011, in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, the tour united the two singers for a series of arena concerts throughout North America – with performances in New York, Toronto, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Chicago, Detroit, Tampa, Montreal, and more.\n\nA solo tour for \"In Your Dreams\" began on August 9, 2011 in Denver, Colorado. Nicks announced on her July 27 appearance on \"America's Got Talent\" that Michael Grimm would be going on tour with her. She then continued on an Australian and New Zealand leg of the tour accompanied by Dave Stewart until December 2011.\n\nNicks joined Rod Stewart in the summer of 2012 for another leg of the \"Heart and Soul\" tour, and resumed the \"In Your Dreams\" tour in June 2012.\n\n\nNicks has been nominated for eight Grammy Awards as a solo artist, holding the record for most nominations for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance without a win.\n\nNicks has been nominated for nine competitive Grammy Awards as a member of Fleetwood Mac, winning the 1978 Grammy Award for Album of the Year for \"Rumours\", and received the 2003 Grammy Hall of Fame Award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58217114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58217114", "title": "Sueli Carneiro", "text": "Sueli Carneiro\n\nAparecida Sueli Carneiro Jacoel, best known as Sueli Carneiro (born 24 June 1950 in São Paulo) is an Afro-Brazilian philosopher, writer and anti-racism activist.  Carneiro is the founder and current director of Geledés — Instituto da Mulher Negra (Geledés - Black Women's Institute), and considered a leading author on black feminism in Brazil.\n\nCarneiro was born in 1950, in the São Paulo neighborhood of Lapa, the eldest of seven children of José Horácio Carneiro, a railroad worker, and Eva Alves Carneiro, a seamstress. She graduated in philosophy at University of São Paulo and got her doctorate in education at the same institution. Carneiro became active in the black feminist movement in Brazil from the late 1970s. In 1983,  when the São Paulo state government created the Conselho Estadual da Condição Feminina (\"State Council for the Feminine Condition\"), Carneiro got involved in a successful campaign for a black woman, the radio broadcaster Marta Arruda, to join the council; there were no black woman among the thirty-two council members.\n\nIn 1988, she founded  Geledés — Instituto da Mulher Negra, first independent black feminist organization in São Paulo. Months after, Carneiro was invited to join the Conselho Nacional da Condição Feminina (National Council for the Feminine Condition), in Brasília.\n\nCarneiro created the only health program specific for Afro-Brazilian women. Weekly, more than thirty women are attended by psychologists and social workers, paticipating in lectures on sexuality, contraception, physical and mental health at  Geledés headquarters. She also created \"SOS Racismo\", a program offering free legal assistance for victims of racial discrimination in São Paulo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24819060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24819060", "title": "Sultan al Haseri", "text": "Sultan al Haseri\n\nSultan al Haseri (died July 9, 2005) was a citizen of Saudi Arabia who was killed during a shootout with Saudi security officials in 2005.\nAl Haseri and nine other men were surrounded by security officials for three days.\nAl Haseri and four other men named on Saudi Arabia's list of most wanted terrorist suspects were killed\nduring the standoff.\nThe five men, Al Haseri, Zaid al-Samari, Saleh al-Fraidi, Nayef al-Jeheishi and Mohammad al-Suwailmi had just been placed two weeks earlier on a list of 36 men wanted by Saudi security officials.\n\nSecurity officials elected not to storm the hideout because it was in a residential neighborhood and was believed to be packed with explosives.\n\nThe \"Khaleej Times\" reported that Saudi security officials asserted Al Haseri had \"“taken part in the abduction and killing of a (foreign) resident.”\"\nThe \"Khaleej Times\" speculated the foreign resident was Paul Johnson, an American engineer, who was kidnapped and beheaded in June 2004.\n"}
{"id": "11730918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11730918", "title": "Witches of Warboys", "text": "Witches of Warboys\n\nThe Witches of Warboys were Alice Samuel and her family, who were accused of, and executed for witchcraft between 1589 and 1593 in the village of Warboys, in the fens of England. It was one of many witch trials in the early modern period, but scholar Barbara Rosen claims it \"attracted probably more notice than any other in the sixteenth century\".\n\nThe trials of the witches occurred during the sixteenth century at Warboys in Huntingdonshire. The first allegations were made in November 1589 by Jane Throckmorton, the 10-year-old daughter of Robert Throckmorton the Squire of Warboys when she started suffering from fits (see Initial Allegations below). She accused the 76-year-old Alice Samuel of being the cause; this was echoed by Jane’s four sisters and some household servants who began exhibiting similar symptoms. When Alice Samuel was brought forward to the children, they became more ill and had the urge to scratch her.\n\nRobert Throckmorton was a close friend of Sir Henry Cromwell, one of the wealthiest commoners in England and the grandfather of Oliver Cromwell. In March 1590, Lady Cromwell came to Warboys to visit. At the Throckmorton house, she interviewed Alice Samuel and what came after the interview served to confirm the suspicions the Throckmortons had. Lady Cromwell was tormented by Alice Samuel in her dreams, and after some time she became ill and died (buried 1592). This was enough proof to put Alice Samuel through a trial that would find her and the rest of her family guilty.\n\nThe first allegations declaring Alice as a practitioner of witchcraft were made in November 1589. Following this, there were a total of twelve maid-servants of the Throckmorton household (in addition to the five daughters) who experienced fits and the torment of Alice Samuell’s witchcraft. Jane’s fits were described as such: \"Sometimes she would neese [sneeze] very loud and thick for the space of half an hour together; and evidently as one in a great trance and sound lay quietly as long, soon after would begin to swell and heave up her belly so as none was able to bend her or keep her down, sometime thee would shake one leg and no other part of her, as if the palsie had been in it, sometimes the other, presently she would shake one of her arms and then the other, and soon after her head, as if she had been infected with the running palsie\".\n\nJane's mother and grandmother were by the child’s side while other neighbors came to see her. When Alice Samuel came in, the child proclaimed: \"Grandmother look where the old witch sitteth (pointing to Samuell) did you ever see one more like a witch than she is: Take off her black thrumbed [shaggy or fringed] cap, for I cannot abide to look on her\". Jane's mother thought nothing of this at first, thinking her child was sleep deprived and sick. However, because Jane continued to get worse, her parents sent her urine to Doctor Barrow of Cambridge, who sent medicine to Jane three separate times thinking it would heal her. It did not. After the third time, the Doctor inquired whether there were any signs of sorcery or witchcraft involved that the parents could see. Jane’s urine was then sent to a family acquaintance, Master Butler, for examination and he sent back the same remedies that Doctor Barrow had sent. Exactly a month later, on the same day almost to the hour, two more of Master Throckmorton’s daughters fell sick to the same illness that was afflicting Jane.\n\nThese daughters, two to three years older than Jane, cried out: \"Take her away, look where she standeth here before us in a black thrumbed cap it is she that hath bewitched us and she will kill us if you do not take her away\".\n\nThe parents were then worried, but could not understand why any such harm would come to them, for they had only moved into the town the \"Michaelmas before\" (September 29, 1588). Their youngest daughter, nine years old, fell sick less than a month later. Soon after this, the oldest daughter, fifteen years old, fell sick. She was sickest out of the five. Both cried out against Alice Samuell. Their eldest sister, having been the strongest, strived with the spirit, and was grievously tortured not being able to overcome it. This caused her to \"(neefe), screech and groan very fearfully, sometimes it would heave up her belly and bounce up her body with such violence that she was not kept upon her bed\". When sitting in a chair, her fits often caused her to break that chair.\n\nThe daughters could not see, hear or feel while in these fits. They accused Mother Samuell, asking for her to be taken away. These fits would sometimes last for half a day and happened up to six or seven times a day. They believed that God freed them of this sorcery and afterwards, the sisters remembered nothing of what they had been saying.\n\nIn March 1590, Lady Cromwell and Alice had a discussion regarding the accusations made against Alice. During this conversation, Lady Cromwell reportedly grabbed a pair of scissors and cut a lock of hair off Alice, and gave it to Mrs. Throckmorton to burn (a folk remedy believed to weaken a witch's power). That night, Lady Cromwell had nightmares, became ill and later died in 1592.\n\nFollowing the death of Lady Cromwell, a local parson convinced Alice to admit to witchcraft, which she retracted the very next day. However, she confessed again when she was brought before the Bishop of Lincoln, and taken to Huntingdon where she was imprisoned with her daughter and husband. The family was tried in April 1593 for the murder by witchcraft of Lady Cromwell. Alice’s words to Lady Cromwell (\"Madam, why do you use me thus? I never did you any harm as yet\") were used against her at the trial, and all three were found guilty and eventually hanged.\n\nThe jailer and his wife examined the corpses.\nHistorian Jim Kermode argues that the discovery of a witches' mark (also known as a \"devil's mark\") was important legal proof at this period in England. \"[I]t gradually became accepted that the mark, with women, most commonly took the form of a teat-like growth in the pudenda\".\n\nThis tale of the jailer's postmortem examination has been widely quoted in modern scholarship, for example with reference to the animal/human divide, the \"sado-erotic fascination of the witches' teat\", and particularly in feminist interpretations of the Early Modern witch trials. It is also cited by writers such as Lynn Picknett.\n\nThe scholar George Kittredge (1860–1941) called the Warboys trial \"the most momentous witch-trial that had ever occurred in England\", partially because it had \"demonstrably produced a deep and lasting impression on the class that made laws\". He makes a case that the Warboys trial influenced the passage of the Witchcraft Act of 1604.\n\nFollowing the hangings, Robert Throckmorton left Warboys hastily, his wife allegedly dying shortly before his departure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8442733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8442733", "title": "Yeraz", "text": "Yeraz\n\nThe Yeraz people, sometimes called Yer-az or Yerazi, are an Azerbaijani sub-group, also referred to as a clan, consisting of Azeris originally from present-day Armenia. The term Yeraz in the Azeri language derives from \"Azeri from Yerevan\", and used even if the person does not hail from the city of Yerevan itself.\n\nDue to longtime historic tensions between neighboring Armenia and Azerbaijan, virtually all the Yeraz have left Armenia for Azerbaijan and other countries before tensions exploded with the Nagorno-Karabakh War. Because they developed with some different customs and cuisine from Azeris in Azerbaijan, the Yerazi have maintained a cohesive sub-culture within the country. Due to tension and cultural differences between Azeris from Azerbaijan and Azeris from Armenia, the term \"Yeraz\" can be construed as a pejorative.\n\nThe Azeri community in Armenia represented a large number but has been virtually non-existent since 1988–1991, when the overwhelming majority of Azeris fled the country as a result of the Nagorno-Karabakh War and the ongoing conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan. United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) estimates the current population of Azeris in Armenia to be somewhere between 30 and a few hundred persons, with majority of them living in rural areas and being members of mixed couples (mostly Azeri women married to Armenian men), as well as elderly and sick, and thus unable to leave the country. Most of them are also reported to have changed their names and maintain a low profile to avoid discrimination.\n\nIn Azerbaijan, the Yeraz form a cohesive political clan that, along with the Nakhchivani clan, has dominated Azerbaijani politics since Soviet times. Though born in Nakhchivan, the family of Heydar Aliyev, longtime President of Azerbaijan and father of its current President, originated from Armenia; as a result he essentially had a double-origin and strong political base in Azerbaijan's Western clans. As the distribution of power in Azeri politics is based on clan and familial ties, these two Western Azeri clans have pushed other clans from power and formed a pyramidal web of patronage built around Nakhichevanis and Yerazi clan groups.\n\nThe leader of the Yeraz clan is Jalal Aliyev, uncle of Azeri President Ilham Aliyev. Ramiz Mehtiev, the head of the President's Executive Body, is another prominent member. Before Jalal Aliyev, the unofficial leader of the Yerazi was Ali Insanov, a co-founder of the ruling New Azerbaijan Party and the former Health Minister of Azerbaijan for 12 years. Insanov and influential bureaucrat Akif Muradverdiyev were considered among the most powerful members of the Yerazi clan until they were sacked by President Ilham Aliyev for corruption before the November 2005 parliamentary elections.\n\nThe Yeraz have two non-political movements: Ağrıdağ (Azeri name for: \"Ararat\") and the Irevan Birliyi (Yerevan Unity) . Founded by Insanov, Ağrıdağ acted as a vehicle to spread the clan's influence at the national level, particularly over the country's health system.\n\n"}
