{"id": "20633574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20633574", "title": "Abyzou", "text": "Abyzou\n\nIn the myth and folklore of the Near East and Europe, Abyzou is the name of a female demon. Abyzou was blamed for miscarriages and infant mortality and was said to be motivated by envy ( \"phthonos\"), as she herself was infertile. In the Jewish tradition, she is identified with Lilith, in Coptic Egypt with Alabasandria, and in Byzantine culture with Gylou, but in various texts surviving from the syncretic magical practice of antiquity and the early medieval era she is said to have many or virtually innumerable names.\n\nAbyzou (also spelled Abizou, Obizu, Obizuth, Obyzouth, Byzou etc.) is pictured on amulets with fish- or serpent-like attributes. Her fullest literary depiction is the compendium of demonology known as the \"Testament of Solomon\", dated variously by scholars from as early as the 1st century AD to as late as the 4th.\n\nA.A. Barb connected Abyzou and similar female demons to the story of the primeval sea, Abzu, in ancient Mesopotamian religion. Barb argued that although the name \"Abyzou\" appears to be a corrupted form of the Greek \"ábyssos\" \"abyss\", the Greek itself was borrowed from Akkadian \"Apsu\" or Sumerian \"Abzu\".\n\nThe primeval sea was originally an androgyne or asexual, later dividing into the male Abzu (fresh water) and the female Tiamat (seawater, appearing as the Tehom in the Book of Genesis). The female demons, among whom Lilith is the best-known, are often said to have come from the primeval sea. In ancient Greek religion, female sea monsters that combine allure and deadliness may also derive from this tradition, including the Gorgons (who were daughters of the old sea god Phorcys), sirens, harpies, and even water nymphs and Nereids.\n\nIn the Septuagint, the Greek version of the Hebrew Bible, the word \"Abyssos\" is treated as a noun of feminine grammatical gender, even though Greek nouns ending in \"-os\" are typically masculine. \"Abyssos\" is equivalent in meaning to Abzu as the dark chaotic sea before Creation. The word also appears in the Christian New Testament, occurring six times in the Book of Revelation, where it is conventionally translated not as \"the deep\" but as \"the bottomless pit\" of Hell. Barb argues that in essence the Sumerian Abzu is the \"grandmother\" of the Christian Devil.\n\nIn the late antique \"Testament of Solomon\", Abyzou (as Obizuth) is described as having a \"greenish gleaming face with dishevelled serpent-like hair\"; the rest of her body is covered by darkness. The speaker (\"King Solomon\") encounters a series of demons, binds and tortures each in turn, and inquires into their activities; then he metes out punishment or controls them as he sees fit. Put to the test, Abyzou says that she does not sleep, but rather wanders the world looking for women about to give birth; given the opportunity, she will strangle newborns. She claims also to be the source of many other afflictions, including deafness, eye trouble, obstructions of the throat, madness, and bodily pain. Solomon orders that she be chained by her own hair and hung up in front of the Temple in public view. The writer of the \"Testament\" appears to have been thinking of the \"gorgoneion\", or the icon of the Medusa's head, which often adorned Greek temples and occasionally Jewish synagogues in late antiquity.\n\nEnvy is a theme in the \"Testament\", and during his interrogation by the king, Beelzebub himself asserts that he inspires envy among humans. Among the succession of demons bound and questioned, the personification of Envy is described as headless, and motivated by the need to steal another's head: \"I grasp in an instant a man's head ... and put it on myself.\" As with Envy's Sisyphean efforts to replace his head, Abyzou (Obizuth) cannot rest until she steals a child each night.\n\nOn the inscribed healing amulets of the Near Eastern and Graeco-Roman magico-medical tradition, illness or affliction is often personified and addressed directly; the practitioner may be instructed to inscribe or chant a phrase that orders the ailment to depart: for example, \"Flee, Fever!\" The ailment may also be conceived of as caused by a demon, who must be identified correctly by name and commanded to depart. In this mode, magico-healing practice bears comparison to exorcism.\n\nAbyzou is depicted and named on several early Byzantine bronze amulets. With her hands tied behind her back, she kneels as she is whipped by a standing figure, identified as Solomon or Arlaph, called Afarof in the \"Testament of Solomon\" and identified with the archangel Raphael. On one amulet, the figure is labeled as Arlaph, but an inscription reads \"The Seal of Solomon [is] with the bearer; I am Noskam.\" The reverse inscription is written within an ouroboros, the symbol of a snake biting its tail to form a circle: \"Flee, flee, Abyzou, [from] Sisinios and Sisinnia; the voracious dog dwells here.\" (Saint Sisinnios sometimes takes the Solomon role on Christian amulets.) Although Abyzou is regarded mainly as a threat to child-bearing women and to infants, some of the names of those seeking protection from her on extant amulets are masculine.\n\nMedieval amulets show a variation on this iconography, with Abyzou trampled underfoot by a horseman. The rider is identified again either as Solomon or Arlaph; one example depicts the rider as Sisinnios, with the demon named as both Abizou and Anabardalea, and an angel named Araph (for Arlaph) standing by with one raised wing. The medieval lead amulets that show the rider subduing the female often have a main image that resembles a gorgoneion and is likely a womb symbol (\"hystera\").\n\nIn one magic-related text, the archangel Michael confronts Abyzou and compels her to tell him the 40 names that can control her. In magico-religious practice, the knowledge of the secret name of a deity, divine force, or demon offers power over that entity.\n\nIn the \"Testament of Solomon,\" the demon herself declares that she has ten-thousands of names and forms, and that Raphael is her antithesis. She says that if her name is written on a scrap of papyrus when a woman is about to give birth, \"I shall flee from them to the other world.\"\n\nVariants on the name of Abyzou appear frequently in charms in languages such as ancient Greek, Hebrew, and Romanian.\n\nThe female childbirth demon appears frequently in magical texts under her Babylonian name Gyllou or Gylou. In one Greek tale set in the time of \"Trajan the King\", Gyllou under torture reveals her \"twelve and a half names\":\n\nIn medieval texts, one of Gylou's twelve and a half names is given as Anabardalea, a name also associated with Abyzou.\n\nIn the form of Gello, the demon appears in a fragment from Sappho's poetry.\n\nAntaura is a female demon who causes migraine headaches. She is known primarily from a 2nd/3rd century silver \"lamella\" (inscribed metal leaf) found at the Roman military settlement Carnuntum in present-day Austria. Antaura, whose name means something like \"Contrary Wind\", is said to come out of the sea. In the inscription, she is confronted by the Ephesian Artemis, who plays the role assigned to the male figures Solomon, Arlaph, and Sisinnios in Jewish and Christian magic.\n\nAt the monastery of St. Apollo in Bawit, Egypt, a wall painting depicts the childbirth demon under the name Alabasandria (or Alabasdria) as she is trampled under the hooves of a horse. The rider wears a belted tunic and trousers in the Parthian manner, and an inscription, now faded, was read at the time of its discovery as Sisinnios. This central image is surrounded by other figures, including a centaur, the piercing of the evil eye, and the demon's daughter, winged and reptile-tailed, identified by an inscription.\n\n\nFor similar or related figures, see:\n\n"}
{"id": "56801387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56801387", "title": "Albert Reuss", "text": "Albert Reuss\n\nAlbert Reuss (2 October 1889 – 4 November 1975) was a painter and sculptor born in Vienna who fled to England in 1938 following the Anschluss, Adolf Hitler’s annexation of Austria to the German Reich. In the process, Reuss lost many members of his family, and the reputation he had built up as an artist in Vienna. He continued to work as an exiled artist in England, but his style changed dramatically, reflecting the trauma he had suffered. Several provincial galleries in England hold his work, most notably Newlyn Art Gallery in Cornwall, the British Museum and the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, the Österreichische Galerie Belvedere (the Belvedere Gallery) and the Albertina both in Vienna, and the Tel Aviv Museum of Art in Israel.\n\nAlbert Reuss was the son of Hungarian Jews, Ignaz Reisz (1855–1911) and Sidonia née Freund (1861–1928). Ignaz was a \"Fleischhauermeister\" and \"Fleischhändler\", a master butcher and meat trader. The couple at some stage moved to Malacky, in former Hungary, now Slovakia, where their first three sons were born. In the late 1880s, the family moved to Vienna, where Albert was born, followed by a further six children, three of whom died in infancy, leaving seven surviving children in all. The family name Reisz was changed by the Austrian authorities to Reiss.\nFrom a young age, Albert became estranged from his family. A frail, sickly and vulnerable child, he seemed neither to fit into nor to belong to the family into which he was born. He suffered from ill-health and had considerable difficulties with social interaction throughout his life. He was introduced to the world of art by a rich uncle, Baron Andreas Ritter von Reisinger, who was married to his father‘s sister, and who appears to have instilled in the young boy a lifelong inferiority complex. Albert's artistic abilities emerged when he was only five years old, and at the age of 14, he applied, unsuccessfully, to the \"Akademie der bildenden Künste Wien\". Unable to pursue his dream of becoming an artist, he was obliged, on leaving school, to assist his father as a butcher. Given his delicate disposition and artistic sensibilities, working at the butchery was not an effective fit. There followed a series of equally unsuitable jobs, including salesman, childminder and actor, all of which ended in dismissal. These repeated experiences of rejection only added to his lack of self-worth. He became determined to teach himself by copying the Old Masters in the Belvedere Gallery and managed to gain several commissions for these paintings, as well as some commissions to paint portraits.\n\nAt the beginning of the First World War, he was obliged to undertake military service, but was allowed to do this in Vienna, due to his poor health, avoiding frontline duty. In 1915 he met his future wife, Rosa Feinstein (1891–1970), the daughter of Benjamin Feinstein, a merchant, and his wife Hinda née Prechner. Benjamin was born in Warsaw, Poland, which was at that time under the rule of Imperial Russia, making him and his family technically Russian. Rosa offered Albert the acceptance and encouragement he so desperately needed. Their marriage lasted for 55 years, and throughout that time she acted, in effect, as his agent and manager.\n\nThe couple were married in December 1916, but shortly after, Albert contracted tuberculosis and spent 18 months in a sanatorium. He took advantage of his confinement by drawing portraits of fellow patients, from which he began to establish a reputation as a portrait artist. Once he had recovered, the couple moved to an apartment at Möllwaldplatz 3, Vienna IV, where Albert established his studio, and in October 1922 they converted to Christianity. Also at this time, Albert started to use the surname \"Reuss\", though this change of name was not officially recognised until 1931. A young student, Sylvio Metzger, also moved into the apartment and developed a lifelong friendship with Albert and Rosa. A large body of correspondence between Sylvio and the couple has survived, and is stored, along with much other documentation, at \"basis wien\" in Vienna.\n\nDuring the 1920s, Reuss gradually established himself as an artist, working initially in portraiture, then developing an individual style of line drawing, which he called his linear work. In 1922, he exhibited a portrait at the Vienna Secession, (also known as \"the Union of Austrian Artists\"), and had his first solo exhibition at the Würthle Galerie in 1926. In 1930, a newspaper proprietor sponsored him to spend a year in Cannes, where he completed forty portraits and landscapes in oil, following which, he had a second solo exhibition at the Würthle Galerie in 1931. His exhibitions received good reviews in the Viennese press. Reuss subsequently became a member of the prestigious artists' association, the Hagenbund, with whom he exhibited on a number of occasions during the 1930s.\n\nFrom 1926 to 1938, Reuss taught at the \"Fachlehranstalt für das Kleidungsgewerbe\" (The Specialist Teaching Institute for the Clothing Industry\")\". In 1934, he also started working as a sculptor, creating, among other things, portrait busts of the Viennese councillor Johann Grassinger and of the actress Maria Eis, as well as a study of his wife Rosa, now in the Tel Aviv Museum of Art. Throughout this period, the couple developed a middle-class lifestyle, and filled their flat in Vienna with numerous books, artefacts and artworks, including two works by Egon Schiele. Thus, by 1938, Reuss had become an established and relatively prosperous painter and sculptor in Vienna. However, this period coincided with the rise of Hitler and the Nazi Party, and by this time, it became clear that Albert and Rosa would have to flee their home country.\n\nFollowing the Anschluss, the annexation of Austria to the German Reich in March 1938, the Reusses packed up all their possessions, including Reuss's artworks, into 38 crates and left these in storage, but almost everything was confiscated by the Nazis. With the help of Cornishman and Quaker, John Sturge Stephens (1891–1954), they escaped from Vienna to England, where they arrived in Dover penniless and empty-handed in August 1938. They had with them 10 Reichsmark (equivalent at the time to about £1 sterling), the maximum cash allowed to emigrants by the German authorities. Some members of the Reiss family were not so fortunate: Albert's brother Julius and his family and his sister Ernestine and her husband Roman Torn,were murdered in the Holocaust. Reuss's remaining siblings emigrated to the United States.\n\nAfter a brief stay in London, the Reusses were invited by John Sturge Stephens to his cottage in St Mawes, the springboard of their future life in Cornwall. Now in their late forties, they were obliged to build a new life and career from scratch. This proved to be a struggle, despite the significant help and support they received from numerous benefactors. Two local female painters in St Mawes offered Reuss the use of their studio, and in October 1938, a first exhibition was held there, followed by another exhibition at Lanham's Gallery in St Ives, Cornwall in December 1938. A third exhibition took place in August 1939 in Truro, Cornwall. However, after England‘s declaration of war against Germany in September 1939, Reuss was briefly interned as an \"enemy alien\" in June 1940 at a detention centre in Shropshire, which greatly distressed him. Following his release in August 1940, Albert and Rosa moved to Cheltenham, where they remained for the next eight years. A fourth solo exhibition took place in 1940 in Cheltenham, followed by a fifth in 1944, Reuss having produced over 200 paintings in the corner of his small living room. He also obtained a job as an art teacher at \"Dean Close School,\" an independent school in Cheltenham, which helped him to become more financially self-reliant, and to supplement his income as an artist. In 1947, Albert and Rosa Reuss were finally granted British nationality.\n\nIn 1948, the Reusses moved to Mousehole, a fishing village in Cornwall, three miles beyond Penzance. Here they established the ARRA Gallery. Two flats (one to rent out), together with a studio and gallery, had been built for them by painter Ruth Adams (1893–1948), whom they had first met in 1938 at Lanham's Gallery in St Ives. Ruth was an ardent admirer of Reuss and was determined to bring her friends back to Cornwall, but she died in an accident just four weeks after their arrival, having left ARRA to the Reusses in her will. This inevitably caused gossip, and the entire episode was a most inauspicious way for Albert and Rosa to begin their new life in the village. Whereas they had been well accepted in St Mawes and Cheltenham, here they were largely to remain outsiders, despite a number of important new friendships. Much to his chagrin, Reuss's attempts to join the Penwith Society of Arts were unsuccessful, as is evident in correspondence with founding member Peter Lanyon. Nevertheless, now 60 years of age, Reuss continued to paint for the rest of his life, supported by the many friends and admirers he and Rosa had made over their first few years in England.\n\nWhilst Albert painted, Rosa managed the ARRA Gallery together with their friend, Jeanne Day, and in collaboration with the Arts Council of Great Britain, hosting local artists such as Mousehole-born Jack Pender (1918–1998) and Alexander Mackenzie (1923 -2002) of the St Ives School. The gallery eventually closed in 1956. Between 1945 and 1956, Rosa also organised numerous solo exhibitions of her husband's work in municipal galleries throughout England, particularly in the North, where many galleries still hold his works.\n\nFrom 1953, Reuss held regular one-man shows at the renowned O’Hana Gallery in London. Jacques O'Hana was an international art dealer specializing in the French Impressionists. He was a colourful, larger-than-life character, who became Reuss's friend and mentor for the next 20 years until O'Hana's death in 1974.\n\nOnce ARRA closed, and there were no further exhibitions in the provinces, the couple started to experience considerable financial difficulties. They managed to obtain compensation for victims of political persecution and a small pension from the Austrian Government. They received additional financial support from Reuss's younger brother, Max Reiss, with whom Albert had a difficult relationship.\n\nAlbert and Rosa's last few years were also plagued by ill-health, with repeated hospital stays for both of them. In January 1970, Rosa passed away. She had spent her entire life caring for and supporting her husband and ensuring that he remained in touch with the outside world. Albert was inconsolable, but struggled on alone for a further five years, still painting. He became concerned about his artistic heritage, fearing that his paintings could be destroyed after his death.\n\nHe entered into a lengthy correspondence with the Austrian Press Secretary and later Deputy Ambassador in London, Dr Ingo Mussi (1935–2012), who arranged, with Jacques O'Hana, for some of Reuss's works to be sent to international galleries in Vienna and Israel. Following O'Hana's death in 1974, almost 200 works, including paintings, sculptures and drawings, remained in the London gallery. Ingo Mussi arranged, with the permission of the dying artist, for these to be sent to Vienna to be curated by an organisation called \"Euro Art\". In September 1975, \"Euro Art\" hosted an exhibition held on the premises of the Bawag Foundation, which had been established in 1974. Bawag was a bank which had close ties with the Social Democratic Party (SPÖ) and the Austrian Trade Union Federation (ÖGB). The bank actively sponsored the promotion of Austrian contemporary art and culture, and Albert Reuss's works were thus amongst the first to be exhibited by the Foundation, in full collaboration with the Socialist government of that time. The exhibition was called \"Bilder der Einsamkeit - Albert Reuss\" \"(Pictures of Loneliness - Albert Reuss)\", and was opened by the Education Minister Dr Fred Sinowatz, who was later to become Austrian Chancellor from 1983 to 1986. In his dying moments, Albert Reuss was finally able to experience success and recognition in his home country. He died on 4 November 1975 at the age of 86 years after a brief stay at a care home in Truro.\n\nReuss was a complex individual. A tall, slim, handsome man, he could often appear aloof, even arrogant. Despite his Viennese elegance, he sometimes behaved irrationally, for example he wrote a number of highly inappropriate letters to the very people who were trying to help him. Yet despite his eccentricities, and at times his unacceptable behaviour, he could also be most charming and had a remarkable capacity to draw people to him, even those he offended. He and Rosa were genuinely loved by a large number of people who were prepared to go to great lengths to help and support them.\n\nDuring the early 1950s, when Reuss was exhibiting in galleries in the North of England, he occasionally gave talks in an attempt to explain his work. An article was published on 11 November 1951 (newspaper unknown) entitled \"Artist Comes to ‘Explain’\" where Reuss is quoted as having described three stages in the development of his art:\n\n″Gateshead's Shipley Art Gallery ... includes pictures representing each of the three important stages through which Reuss's artistic life has passed from early pencil drawings, in which his striving after the essence of his subject was first observable, through the translation of this essence into oils, then to his later more uncompromising works.″\n\nHis earlier linear work of the 1920s was characterised by drawings which used a few brief pencil strokes to invoke recognisable images. This gave way to detailed and colourful oil paintings of landscapes, still lifes and figures, influenced by the expressionist Carinthian school of painting. This was a style he first developed during his period in Cannes, using a palette knife and “iridescent and opalescent colour”, for example \"The Carinthian Family\" \"(Die Kärntner Familie)\" (1932, private collection). This body of work was well received by the Viennese art critics of the 1930s, but following his exhibition in Vienna in 1975, his earlier work was described as \"conventional\", whilst he was thought to have \"found himself\" during his exile in England. Indeed, following his exile, there was an immediate change in Reuss's work into a style which could loosely be called Surrealism; his oil paintings now became simplified and muted with much cooler colours. Figures often looked sad or listless, or were portrayed with their backs turned. Compare for example \"Woman Reading with Mother-In-Law's Tongue\", a portrait of Rosa (1935, Newlyn Art Gallery) with \"Woman Reading\" (1942–1947, Newlyn Art Gallery). After moving to Mousehole in 1948, bleak landscapes started to appear, with broken fences and walls, and trees stripped of foliage. The art critics of the 1950s commented in particular on the beauty and simplicity of these paintings, the economy of line, and the artist's considerable draughtsmanship. Some also saw in Reuss's work a certain spiritual quality. In later years, Reuss's paintings became ever more desolate, and the figures started to disappear. Where figures were present, these looked abandoned, like flotsam on the beach. This is particularly evident in \"Figure and Tree Stump\" originally titled \"Self-Portrait in the Open\" (1967, Newlyn Art Gallery). Often random objects such as corrugated iron and boulders appeared in the landscape, and sometimes even penetrated into rooms, for example \"Interior II\" (1971/72, Newlyn Art Gallery).\n\nAn apt description of Reuss's post-Vienna work appears on the Kunsthandel Widder Gallery's websiteReuss’s artistic output is very much informed by his biography. Objects, floating relinquished through space and having lost any foothold, predominate his imagery… Ripped out of their natural context, those objects tell the story of a voyage, of a kind of abandonment of an object that does not fit in its new environment. In Reuss's artwork, style and choice of subject-matter invoke an association with Surrealism. Dali and Chirico are but the two most important artists [who] bring to mind Reuss's artwork. Reuss's depiction of people has a similarly estranged air about them as those of his objects. Taken out of context, of time, of place, the pictured people appear oddly strange. Melancholic and lonely, but also calm and gentle, Reuss's creations remind the viewer of the art of Josef Floch.There can be no doubt that these works were an expression of Reuss's mental state, of the extreme melancholy and despair that he had suffered throughout his life, but most especially the trauma he had experienced as a consequence of his exile, culminating in the \"Pictures of Loneliness\" of his final years.\n\nDuring the last few months of Reuss's life, Dr Mussi urged the ailing artist to appoint an heir, and to make it clear to whom he wished to leave his life's work. He suggested the possibility of leaving it to a public collection in Austria. Frail and confused, Reuss did not understand what was needed, and probably thought that by sending the bulk of his works to Vienna, he was doing just that. Consequently, there was no specific clause in his will naming an heir for his artistic works, though he was clear concerning his other assets, having written his will some years earlier with Rosa. All his artwork therefore went to the named residuary beneficiary, Miss Norette Reed, who had been a friend of Albert and Rosa for many years, and was an ardent admirer of Reuss's work. Norette was not expecting this gift, and in fact had donated her own collection of 31 Reuss paintings to the Newlyn Orion Gallery (now Newlyn Art Gallery) in June 1975, a few weeks before Reuss's death, specifying that this was to be kept as a permanent collection and not for sale. This became known as the \"Norette Collection\". She now inherited those paintings still remaining at ARRA, Reuss's studio and home in Mousehole, as well as those which had been transferred to Vienna. She was happy for the works in Vienna to remain there, as this had clearly been Reuss's wish, but resolved in June 1977 that she would also donate to the Newlyn Orion all the unsold works which she had inherited, both those in Vienna as well as those which had remained in England. However, in January 1979, Reuss's works still in Vienna were unexpectedly returned to Cornwall. John Halkes, the director at that time of the Newlyn Orion, was delighted with these new acquisitions, some of which were from Reuss's Vienna period. In an interview with Susan Soyinka, Reuss's biographer, in October 2016, he said: \"I thought the sensible thing to do was to cream off some of the better ones and add them to the \"Norette Collection\" ... Meanwhile … we didn’t have storage ... so (the remainder) were steadily exhibited and sold over the years.\" The remaining works, available for sale, now became known as the Vienna Collection, which in later years was retitled the \"Reuss Collection\".\n\nJohn Halkes was keen to honour Norette Reed's expressed wishes to raise Reuss's artistic profile and to ensure that a biography would be written. True to his word, he mounted several exhibitions during the 1970s and 1980s, not only at the Newlyn Orion but also at galleries in Plymouth and Bristol. In 1984, Halkes gave Reuss's written estate to a young German art student, Lioba Reddeker (1961–2011), who intended to write a biography, but was unable to complete this. Following her death, the entire documentation, including Lioba's research papers, was passed to ″basis wien″, a database of Austrian artists which she had founded.\n\nNorette Reed died on 10 June 1991 and bequeathed one third of her residual estate to the Newlyn Orion. When John Halkes left the gallery in 1990, Reuss's works were put into storage and, apart from a further exhibition in 1992, were rarely seen for almost three decades.\n\nIn recent years, there has been a renewed interest in the “lost generation” of emigrated artists, including Reuss, in Austria and Germany, and indeed there are a number of galleries in Vienna and Berlin which specialize in exiled artists. Reuss's work featured in two hugely successful exhibitions called \"Die Uns Verliessen\" \"(The Ones Who Left Us)\", held in Vienna in 1980, and \"Art in Exile\", held in 1986 in several venues in Europe, including London. More recently, his works have featured in the Leopold Museum in the 2007 exhibition \"Zwischen den Kriegen. Österreichische Künstler 1918–1938 (Between the wars: Austrian artists 1918-1938\"), in 2015 as part of \"The Bigger Picture\" at the Penlee House Gallery and Museum in Penzance, and in 2016 at the Tel Aviv Museum of Art, Israel. His work is also represented in Thomas B Schumann's large collection of exile art in Germany, and Herr Schumann used one of Reuss's paintings, \"The Art Critic\", on the cover of a book published in 2016, \"Deutsche Künstler im Exil 1933 bis 1945\", \"(German Artists in Exile 1933 to 1945)\".\n\nMonica Bohm Duchen, the organiser of the 1986 \"Art in Exile\" exhibition, is in the process of organising a major national event called Insiders/Outsiders, an exciting nationwide arts festival planned for 2019 to celebrate the extraordinary contribution of refugees from Nazi Europe to British culture. There are plans to exhibit some of Reuss's work at a few galleries in Cornwall as part of this project.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6734450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6734450", "title": "An Intelligent Person's Guide to Atheism", "text": "An Intelligent Person's Guide to Atheism\n\nAn Intelligent Person's Guide to Atheism is the first book by Daniel Harbour, an Oxford maths and philosophy graduate, who at the time of writing was working for a PhD in linguistics at MIT.\n\nRather than a history of atheism, as the title may suggest, the book is a guide to why (according to the author) atheism is superior to theism and why the (a)theist discussion is important. \n\nAccording to Harbour, atheism is \"the plausible and probably correct belief that God does not exist\", while theism is \"the implausible and probably incorrect belief that God does exist\", and anyone who cares about the truth should be an atheist. Harbour makes his case on the basis of two fundamental worldviews which he labels the Spartan Meritocracy and the Baroque Monarchy. Worldviews are the ways in which we look at and try to explain the world around us; as a result, the validity of our worldviews is extremely important because it determines the validity and reasonableness of our beliefs. \n\nThe Spartan Meritocracy makes minimal assumptions, that are subject to criticism and possible revision, when trying to explain the world - focusing more upon a proper method of inquiry than on reaching any particular or prejudicial conclusions. The Baroque Monarchy, however, relies upon elaborate dogmatic assumptions in the absence of any evidence — assumptions which are placed beyond question, critique or revision. \n\nHarbour spends little time directly comparing atheism and theism; rather, he compares these two opposing worldviews and argues that the Spartan Meritocracy is more plausible, more reasonable, and helps make the world a better place to live. Thus, anyone who cares about the truth should be inclined to adopt it rather than blind obedience to dogmatism as in the Baroque Monarchy.\n\nHe does not, however, argue that there is a direct and necessary connection between these worldviews and either atheism or theism — he acknowledges that it is possible in theory for an atheist to adopt the Baroque Monarchy and for some types of theist to adopt the Spartan Meritocracy. Strictly speaking, then, the main thrust of his argument is that the Spartan Meritocracy is superior and anyone who cares about the truth should adopt this worldview. Nevertheless, he also argues that it is highly unlikely for theism ever to occur within the Spartan Meritocracy due to the evidence the world presents, and that, consequently, anyone who adopts the Spartan Meritocracy will almost inevitably be an atheist. Harbour constructs an argument throughout the book to demonstrate that the Spartan Meritocracy leads logically and naturally to atheism rather than theism.\n\nMuch of Daniel Harbour's book is focused on demonstrating the ways in which the Spartan Meritocracy does a better job of helping us to explain the world and make the world a better place to live in. The former involves analyzing the impact of science and technology, pursuits fundamentally based upon a spartan and meritocratic perspective of nature.\n\n\"It would be one thing to abandon the paradigm of rational enquiry if it were merely a proposal on paper. However, centuries of effort have made it much more: it is the most successful attempt to understand the world that the world has ever seen. By dint of breadth, the paradigm stands out. Through the sum total of its theories, it covers more facts, explains more phenomena, and unmasks the mechanisms of more one-time mysteries than any alternative.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11323578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11323578", "title": "Arcadio Larraona Saralegui", "text": "Arcadio Larraona Saralegui\n\nArcadio María Larraona Saralegui, CMF (13 November 1887 – 7 May 1973) was a Spanish Cardinal of the Catholic Church. He served as Prefect of the Sacred Congregation of Rites from 1962 to 1968, and was elevated to the cardinalate in 1959.\n\nLarraona Saralegui was born in Oteiza de la Solana, Navarra, to Patricio Larraona and his wife Bartolina Saralegui. He was the second of five children, his siblings being named Luis, Digna, Amparito (who died in infancy), and Amparo. Entering the Congregation of the Missionary Sons of the Immaculate Heart of Mary in 1899, Larraona Saralegui received his habit on 28 July 1902, and professed his final vows on 8 December 1903. After attending the University of Lleida, he was ordained to the priesthood by Archbishop Juan Soldevilla y Romero on 10 June 1911. Larraona Saralegui left for Rome on the following 24 October to study at the Pontifical Roman Athenaeum \"S. Apollinare\" (from where he obtained his doctorate in canon and civil law) and the University of Rome.\n\nAt his alma mater of the Pontifical Roman Athenaeum \"S. Apoillinare\", he was made Professor of Institutions and History of Civil Law in 1919, and later served as Professor of Roman law for forty years. Within the Claretians, he held the posts of counselor of the Italian province, visitor to Germany, and general assistant to Italy, Central Europe, and China. He was appointed consultor, in the Roman Curia, of the Sacred Congregation of the Oriental Churches on 8 October 1929, and of the Sacred Congregation of Religious on 3 December of that same year.\n\nHe was made Undersecretary (27 November 1943) and later Secretary (11 December 1949) of the Congregation of Religious. Before naming him as Major Penitentiary on 13 August 1961, Pope John XXIII created him Cardinal-Deacon of \"Ss. Biagio e Carlo ai Catinari\" in the consistory of 14 December 1959. He thus became the first Claretian member of the College of Cardinals; he required the permission of his order to change his brown habit for scarlet robes, provided they were made of wool. On 12 February 1962, Cardinal Larraona Saralegui was advanced to Prefect of the Sacred Congregation of Rites and, in preparation of the Second Vatican Council, President of the Pontifical Commission of the Sacred Liturgy.\n\nCardinal Larraona Saralegui was appointed Titular Archbishop of \"Diocaesarea in Isauria\" on 5 April 1962, and received his episcopal consecration on the following 19 April from Pope John, with Cardinals Giuseppe Pizzardo and Benedetto Aloisi Masella serving as co-consecrators, in the Lateran Basilica. He resigned as Titular Archbishop, on 20 April of that same year. Attending all four sessions of the Second Vatican Council, he served as a cardinal elector in the 1963 papal conclave that selected Pope Paul VI. Larraona Saralegui, who had acquired the reputation of being sternly conservative, was Cardinal Protodeacon, or the most senior Cardinal-Deacon, from 26 June 1967 to 28 April 1969. He resigned as Prefect of Rites on 9 January 1968, and later exercised his right as a Cardinal-Deacon of ten years' standing to become a Cardinal-Priest (receiving the title of \"S. Cuore di Maria\" in the consistory of 28 April 1969).\n\nCardinal Larraona Saralegui died at 10:10 am after a six-day broncho pulmonary infection in the Roman headquarters of the Claretians, at age 85. He is buried in the chapel of S. Giuseppe in the basilica of Sacro Cuore di Maria, according to his will.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2542727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2542727", "title": "Artgemeinschaft", "text": "Artgemeinschaft\n\nThe Artgemeinschaft Germanic Faith Community (; abbreviated AG GGG) is a German Neopagan and Neo-Nazi organization founded in 1951 by Wilhelm Kusserow, a former member of the SS. In 1983, it merged with the \"Nordungen\" (founded 1924). From 1989 to 2009, it was headed by Jürgen Rieger.\n\nArtgemeinschaft mixes far-right ideology with Nordic and Teutonic religions such as Ásatrú, but also elements of atheism. In the 1960s some theosophic and so called ariosophic aspects were added.\n\nThe \"weltanschauung\" of the party is xenophobic and antisemitic. A belief of the party is \"Artgemeinschaft\" (loosely translated as \"racial community\"), a basic tenets of which is the \"Artglaube\" (\"racial belief\").\n\nIn contrast to other pagan organisations, neither Guido von List nor Lanz von Liebenfels plays any role.\n\nImportant in their beliefs are theses by Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, Eduard v. Hartmann and Feuerbach in order to attack Christian moral and to replace it with a pagan one. According to Fromm, belief in Gods is not an important momentum for the Artgemeinschaft.\n\nMembership is regulated according to racial criteria; only \"northern born\" people may become members. The members belong to different currents of the far-right, from militant neo-fascists to representatives of the Neue Rechte (New Right).\n\nThe AG GGG publishes the völkisch \"Nordische Zeitung\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30140872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30140872", "title": "Bandhmati", "text": "Bandhmati\n\nThe Bandhmati are a Hindu caste found in the state of Uttar Pradesh in India. They are also known as Banbasi.\n\nThe Bandhmati are a caste that are traditionally involved in the manufacture of ropes. According to some traditions, they are a community of Banjaras that took to the manufacture of ropes as such became an endogamous sub-group. The Bandhmati are found mainly in Saharanpur District, and are mostly Hindu, with the exception of a small group of Muslim Bandhmati. Their main tribal deity is Balmiki. The Bandhmati speak the Khari boli dialect of Hindi, although most of the community both speak and understand standard Hindi.\n\nThe Bandhmati practice strict community endogamy, as well as clan exogamy, which a common practice among most North Indian Hindus. They live in multi-caste villages, but occupy their own distinct quarters. Each of their settlement contains an informal caste council, known as a panchayat, sometimes also called a sabha or association. The panchayat is headed by a chaudhary, a position which is elective. As an institution, the main function of the panchayat is to resolve any intra-community dispute, as well as acting an instrument of social control.\n\nThe Banndhmati are still involved in their traditional occupation, which is the manufacture of ropes. These are then sold at the local market. The raw material for the manufacture of the ropes is obtained from government owned forest, for which the community require licences. A significant number of Bandhmati are agricultural labourers, while other often migrating to Mumbai and Delhi to work as daily wage labourers. Like other scheduled caste communities, they live an extremely marginal economic existence. A small number of Bandhmati have also become poultry farmers, selling their produce in the towns nearest to their settlements.\n\n"}
{"id": "21538296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21538296", "title": "Bojil Kolarov", "text": "Bojil Kolarov\n\nBojil Kolarov () is a Bulgarian writer specializing in the study of the origins and history of Hindu culture and philosophy. He was born in 1972 in Sofia (Bulgaria) and graduated in 1997 in philosophy and biology from Sofia University.\n\nHis published works include :\n\nHe has also written many independent articles about political science, cultural studies and parapsychology.\n\nHe has travelled to many countries including India, where he visited a majority of holy Hindu places. He is interested in Indian philosophy, yoga and meditation, which he studied in ashrams in Hrishikesh.\n\nThe central idea in his study is the superiority of Hindu tradition in relation to the outside forces that have been in conflict with it for the past millienium.\n"}
{"id": "48368613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48368613", "title": "Champat Rai Jain", "text": "Champat Rai Jain\n\nChampat Rai Jain (1867-1942) was an influential Jain writer and comparative religion scholar of the 20th century who contrasted Jainism and Christianity. He visited various European countries to give lectures on Jainism. He was conferred with the title \"Vidya-Varidhi\" (lit. Ocean of Wisdom) by Bharata Dharma Mahamandal (The India-Religious Association).\n\nChampat Rai Jain was born on 6 August 1867 in Delhi, India. He was married at the age of 13. In 1892, he went to England to study law. He was the founder of the Jaina mission in London. He died on 2 June 1942. He was a barrister-at-law, orator, writer, and attempted to explain Jainism with modern age psychology and science terminology.\n\nAccording to Padmanabh Jaini, the colonial era Champat Rai Jain was an apologist of Jainism, defended the Jain doctrines that were criticized by Christian missionaries, and authored the first Jaina text aimed at the Christian world when Christian missionaries expressed frustration at Jain people with no pagan creator gods refusing to convert to Christianity.\n\nChampat Rai Jain attempted to present Jainism as a scientific religion, a knowledge that he claimed had neither dogmatism nor mysticism.\n\nChampat Rai Jain wrote in three main languages of his time: English, Hindi, Urdu.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Key of Knowledge\", a book authored by Champat Rai Jain, was published in 1915. It was widely acclaimed among the scholars.\n\nThe Pioneer (on March 12, 1916) wrote: \"Mr. Rai's book is singularly lucid and readable and not a word in it could give umbrage to the most sensitive votaries of the creeds discussed.\"\n\n\"The author's learning and breadth of outlook entitle him to patient hearing...\"- The East and West—March (1916)\n\nVijay K. Jain, a modern Jainism scholar in the Preface of his book \"From IIM-Ahmedabad To Happines\" wrote:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1827551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1827551", "title": "Claude Auguste Court", "text": "Claude Auguste Court\n\nClaude Auguste Court (24 September 1793 – January 1880) was a French soldier and mercenary.\n\nHe was hired by Maharaja Ranjit Singh of Punjab in 1827 to organize and train the artillery. He was promoted to the rank of general, and served as one of the leading European officers in the Punjab Army\n\nCourt was born at Saint-Cézaire-sur-Siagne, France, on 24 September 1793. He was educated at the Ecole Polytechnique in Paris.\n\nIn 1813, he joined the French army. After Napoleon's defeat in the Waterloo in 1815 he was dismissed from service. He left France in 1818 for Baghdad and joined the Persian forces which were trained at Kermanshah by a handful of ex-officers of Napoleon's army including Jean-Baptiste Ventura. While in Persia, he met Paolo Avitabile, another Neapolitan adventurer, and together they travelled on to Lahore reaching there in early 1827.\n\nMaharaja Ranjit Singh gave Court employment in the artillery befitting his talents and scientific attainments. Court was responsible for the training of artillerymen, the organization of batteries and the establishment of arsenals and magazines on European lines. The Maharaja had his own foundries for casting guns and for the manufacture of shells. Court supervised these in collaboration with Sardar Lahina Singh Majithia.\n\nWhen Court produced the first shell at the Lahore foundry, the Maharaja bestowed upon him a prize of Rs 30,000, and when he produced the fuse, he was rewarded with an award of Rs 5,000. Court received a salary of Rs 2,500 per month, besides a jagir.\n\nHe took part in the expedition of Peshawar (1834) and the battle of Jamrud (1837).\nHe was promoted to general in 1836.\n\nClaude Auguste Court continued to serve the State after the death of Maharaja Ranjit Singh.\nAfter the death of Kanvar Nau Nihal Singh on 5 November 1840, Court along with Ventura sided with Sher Singh who was installed as Maharaja, with their help in investing the Fort of Lahore, on 20 January 1841.\n\nAfter Maharaja Sher Singh's assassination in September 1843, he fled to Firozpur, in British territory, and, ultimately securing his discharge from the Sikh army, proceeded with his Punjabi wife and the children to France in 1844. He purchased an estate in the countryside and a residence in the city of Paris where he lived until his death in 1880. A very useful overview of Court's life in India is found in Jean-Marie Lafont's book \"Indika: Essays in Indo-French Relations, 1630-1976 \"[New Delhi, 2000]. Lafont presents an enormous amount of new information of the 'French Generals\" serving in Lahore in the 1820s-30s as well as the intellectual interest France showed in all things Indian in the 19th century.\n\nCourt was one of the first Europeans to become interested in the coins of South Asia, which he collected from 1829. Part of the collection was described in \"Revue Numismatique\" in 1839 and Court talks of his coin collection in his valuable \"Memoires\" published in Paris in 1856-57. Court died in Paris in January 1880 leaving his heirs his rich coin collection. We know almost nothing of its fate since then until three albums came to light in an English book sale. They contained 627 coin rubbings, allowing many of Court's coins to be identified. These had been bought by a coin collector, Alexander Cunningham, whose collection was acquired by the British Museum in 1888–94. Cunningham may also have owned the albums.\n\n"}
{"id": "2496204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2496204", "title": "Confessionalism (religion)", "text": "Confessionalism (religion)\n\nConfessionalism, in a religious (and particularly Christian) sense, is a belief in the importance of full and unambiguous assent to the whole of a religious teaching. Confessionalists believe that differing interpretations or understandings, especially those in direct opposition to a held teaching, cannot be accommodated within a church communion.\n\nConfessionalism can become a matter of practical relevance in fields such as Christian education and Christian politics. For example, there is a question over whether Christian schools should attempt to enforce a specific religious doctrine, or whether they should simply teach general \"Christian values\". Similarly, some Christian political parties have been split over whether non-Christians should be allowed to participate — confessionalists, arguing against it, stress the importance of religious doctrine, while non-confessionalists say that shared values are more important than adherence to exact beliefs.\n\nHistorically, the term confessionalism for the first time was used in mid-19th century. Of course the phenomenon of confessionalism and the term “confession”, from which the term confessionalism derived, is much older, referring to once individual belief, then collective belief. Furthermore, the term confession in different languages implies different notions (faith, denomination, croyance, culte, communauté religieuse).\n\nIn the 16th and 17th centuries the term confession was only used for the documents of belief (cf. Confessio Augustana) while the religious communities of Roman Catholics, Lutherans, and Calvinists were referred to as “religious parties”, different “religions” or “churches” - not as confessions. In the late 18th century the term confession started to expand to religious bodies sharing a common creed. The first evidence is the Wöllner and Prussian Religious Edict of 1788 (though there might be earlier proofs for the English-speaking world). The international Congress of Vienna in 1815 still didn’t use the term confession to mark different Christian denominations. Labelling Christian groups “confessions” implied a certain degree of civil progress and tolerance, accepting that no party could claim absolute truth. The original intention to pacify conflicts between the denominations in the 19th century turned into its opposite: Confession bore the ground for new conflicts, as for example in the Cologne conflict about mixed marriages in 1837. The Roman Catholic Church refused to consider itself as merely a confession.\n\nHowever ahistorical the terminology (cf. the latest semantical research of L. Hölscher), historians talk about the Early Modern period as a “confessional age” (first evidence: Ernst Troeltsch, 1906) and with good reasons use the terms of confessionalization and confessionalism.\n\nIn the third half or the 19th century the term confessionalism occurred in dictionaries. It referred to internal Protestant conflicts (orthodoxy v. “living” Protestantism), to conflicts between different confessional groups, to everyday resentments and to any exaggerated emphasis of religious identity against competing identities. The Catholic Staatslexikon in 1959 defines Confessionalism as the “endeavour of the confessions to defend their religious doctrine” and their identity, in opposition to indifferentism, but it also meant the “overemphasize of confessional differences, esp. transferring them into the realm of state and society”. In later editions of dictionaries there is no lemma any more since the phenomenon lost its wider impact. Confessionalism exerted a severe impact on European social and political History between 1530 and 1648 and again between 1830 and the 1960s.\n\nNowadays confessionalism is of minor relevance in European state churches. It rose to importance in the early 19th century and vanished in the 1960s. This is why some scholars talk about this time-period as a \"second confessional age\", comparing the dimensions of confessionalism with the \"first confessional age\" (16th to 17th centuries). However, various European free churches still consider confessions important, for example, the Evangelical Lutheran Free Church and the Independent Evangelical-Lutheran Church both require clergy and congregations to declare a quia subscription to the Book of Concord.\n\nIn Lebanon, the concept of confessionalism holds an important political meaning, since political power and governmental bureaucracy are organized according to religious confessions (as it happened in Switzerland, Germany, the Netherlands and other countries before). For example, the National Pact (an unwritten covenant) and later the Taif Agreement provide for a Maronite Christian president, a Sunni Muslim prime minister, and a Shia Muslim speaker of parliament.\n\nThe idea of confessionalism can generate considerable controversy. Some Christian denominations, particularly newer ones, focus more on the \"experience\" of Christianity than on its formal doctrines, and are accused by confessionalists of adopting a vague and unfocused form of religion. Anti-confessionalists, declaring that the confessionalist view of religion is too narrow and that people should be able to seek religion in their own way, generally argue that it is the spirit and values of religion that matter, rather than the particular rules. Confessionalists generally counter that the \"spirit and values\" of any given faith cannot be attained without first knowing truth as given in formal dogmas.\n\n"}
{"id": "6207243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6207243", "title": "Demographics of atheism", "text": "Demographics of atheism\n\nAccurate demographics of atheism are difficult to obtain since conceptions of atheism vary across different cultures and languages from being an active concept to being unimportant or not developed. In global studies, the number of people without a religion is usually higher than the number of people without a belief in a deity and the number of people who agree with statements on lacking a belief in a deity is usually higher than the number of people who self-identify as \"atheists\". According to sociologist Phil Zuckerman, broad estimates of those who have an absence of belief in a deity range from 500 to 750 million people worldwide. Other estimates state that there are 200 million to 240 million self-identified atheists worldwide, with China and Russia being major contributors to those figures. According to sociologists Ariela Keysar and Juhem Navarro-Rivera's review of numerous global studies on atheism, there are 450 to 500 million positive atheists and agnostics worldwide (7% of the world's population), with China having the most atheists in the world (200 million convinced atheists).\n\nOf the global atheist and non-religious population, 76% reside in Asia and the Pacific, while the remainder reside in Europe (12%), North America (5%), Latin America and the Caribbean (4%), sub-Saharan Africa (2%) and the Middle East and North Africa (less than 1%).<ref name=\"Pew Global Unaffiliated 12/2012\"></ref> The prevalence of atheism in Africa and South America typically falls below 10%. According to the Pew Research Center's 2012 global study of 230 countries and territories, 16% of the world's population is not affiliated with a religion, while 84% are affiliated. Furthermore, the global study noted that many of the unaffiliated, which include atheists and agnostics, still have various religious beliefs and practices.\n\nHistorical records of atheist philosophy span several millennia. Atheistic schools are found in early Indian thought and have existed from the times of the historical Vedic religion. Western atheism has its roots in pre-Socratic Greek philosophy, but did not emerge as a distinct world-view until the late Enlightenment.\n\nDiscrepancies exist among sources as to how atheist and religious demographics are changing. Questions to assess non-belief may ask about negation of the prevailing belief, rather than an assertion of positive atheism. Also, self-identification is not congruous to people's lack of beliefs automatically. For instance, merely not having a belief in a god, for whatever reason, does not automatically mean that people self-identify as an \"atheist\". According to the 2012 WIN/Gallup International Survey, the number of atheists is on the rise across the world, with religiosity generally declining. However, other global studies have indicated that global atheism may be in decline due to irreligious countries having the lowest birth rates in the world and religious countries having higher birth rates in general.\n\nThe demographics of atheism are substantially difficult to quantify. Words like, \"God\" or \"atheism\" seldom translate well across cultures or languages, and if they are there, they have variant meanings which make cross cultural comparisons tenuous. As such, it can be hard to draw boundaries between atheism, non-religious beliefs, and non-theistic religious and spiritual beliefs. Furthermore, atheists may not report themselves as such, to prevent suffering from social stigma, discrimination, and persecution in some countries.\n\nBecause some governments have strongly promoted atheism and others have strongly condemned it, atheism may be either over-reported or under-reported for different countries. There is a great deal of room for debate as to the accuracy of any method of estimation, as the opportunity for misreporting (intentionally or not) a category of people without an organizational structure is high. Also, many surveys on religious identification ask people to identify themselves as \"agnostics\" or \"atheists\", which is potentially confusing, since these terms are interpreted differently, with some identifying themselves as being agnostic atheists. Additionally, many of these surveys only gauge the number of irreligious people, not the number of actual atheists, or group the two together. For example, research indicates that the fastest growing religious status may be \"no religion\" in the United States, but this includes all kinds of atheists, agnostics, and theists. According to the World Factbook, Non-religious people make up 9.66%, while one fifth of them are atheists.\n\nStatistics on atheism are often difficult to represent accurately for a variety of reasons. Atheism is a position compatible with other forms of identity including religions. Anthropologist Jack David Eller, states that \"atheism is quite a common position, even within religion\" and that \"surprisingly, atheism is not the opposite or lack, let alone the enemy, of religion but is the most common form of religion.\" Furthermore, he observes that \"some atheists call themselves \"spiritual\", and as we have shown above, atheism in its broadest sense does not preclude other religious concepts like nature spirits, dead ancestors, and supernatural forces.\" In many cultures, little conceptual or practical distinction is made between “natural” and “supernatural” phenomena and the very notions of \"religious\" and \"nonreligious\" dissolve into unimportance, especially since people have beliefs in other supernatural or spiritual things irrespective of belief in gods. For instance, in Netherlands people who lack of beliefs in gods do have a variety of beliefs in other supernatural entities or things. \n\nGlobally, some atheists also consider themselves Agnostic, Buddhist, Hindu, Jains, Taoist, or hold other related philosophical beliefs. Some, like Secular Jews and Shintoists, may indulge in some religious activities as a way of connecting with their culture, all the while being atheist. Therefore, given limited poll options, some may use other terms to describe their identity. Some politically motivated organizations that report or gather population statistics may, intentionally or unintentionally, misrepresent atheists. Survey designs may bias results due to the nature of elements such as the wording of questions and the available response options. Statistics are generally collected on the assumption that religion is a categorical variable. Instruments have been designed to measure attitudes toward religion, including one that was used by L. L. Thurstone. This may be a particularly important consideration among people who have neutral attitudes, as it is more likely that prevailing social norms will influence the responses of such people on survey questions that effectively force respondents to categorize themselves either as belonging to a particular religion or belonging to no religion. A negative perception of atheists and pressure from family and peers may also cause some atheists to disassociate themselves from atheism. Misunderstanding of the term may also be a reason some label themselves differently.\n\nFor example, a Canadian poll released September 12, 2011 sampled 1,129 Canadian adults and collected data on the numbers of declared atheists. These numbers conflicted with the latest Canadian census data that pre-supposed that a religious affiliation predisposed a belief in a deity and was based on a poorly worded question. A quote from the study:\nThe data also revealed some interesting facts about Canadians' beliefs:\nEven when people directly claim to not believe in a deity, they still do not self-identify as “atheist.” For instance, 41% of Norwegians, 48% of the French, and 54% of Czechs claimed to not believe in a deity, but only 10%, 19%, and 20% of those respondents self-identified as “atheist,” respectively. In the United States, only 5% of the population did not have a belief in a god and out of that small group only 24% self-identified as \"atheist\", while 15% self-identified as \"agnostic\" and 35% self-identified as \"nothing in particular\".\n\nThough China is state atheism, 85% of the population practice various kinds of religious behaviors with some regularity.\n\nIn the Netherlands, beliefs of \"convinced atheists\" are quite diverse: 41.1% of them believe in telepathy, 21.1% believe in reincarnation, 13.3% believe in life after death, and 1.6% believe in heaven. The percentages on telepathy and reincarnation were similar to the percentages of \"religious people\" in the Netherlands. Furthermore, the author of the study notes, \"Thus, despite the fact that they claim to be convinced atheists and the majority deny the existence of a personal god, a rather large minority of the Dutch convinced atheists believe in a supernatural power!\"\n\nA 2004 survey by the BBC in 10 countries showed the proportion of the population \"who don't believe in God\" to be close to 17% in the countries surveyed, however, 8% of the respondents specifically stated that they consider themselves to be \"atheists\". Diversity was observed in that \"across the entire sample, almost 30% of all atheists surveyed said they sometimes prayed.\"\n\nA study on global religiosity, secularity, and well-being notes that it is unlikely that most atheists and agnostics base their decision to not believe in the gods on a careful, rational analysis of philosophical and scientific arguments since science testing scores in societies where atheism or theism is widespread, are just as poor and such societies have widespread supernatural beliefs besides gods. Reviewing psychological studies on atheists, Miguel Farias, noted that studies concluding that analytical thinking leads to lower religious belief \"do not imply that that atheists are more conscious or reflective of their own beliefs, or that atheism is the outcome of a conscious refutation of previously held religious beliefs\" since they too have variant beliefs such as in conspiracy theories of the naturalistic variety. In terms of apostasy, a greater proportion of people who leave religion, do so for motivational rather than rational reasons and the majority of deconversions occur in adolescence and young adulthood when one is emotionally volatile. Furthermore, Farias notes that atheists are indistinguishable from New Age individuals or Gnostics since there are commonalities such as being individualistic, non-conformist, liberal, and valuing hedonism and sensation. According to Phil Zuckerman, the majority of atheists and other secular people who were raised with a religion, leave their religion and beliefs in their late teens or early twenties while a smaller proportion do so at a mature age. \nA study on personality and religiosity found that members of secular organizations (like the international Center for Inquiry) have similar personality profiles to members of religious groups. This study found that members of secular organizations are very likely to label themselves primarily as \"atheists\", but also very likely to consider themselves humanists. It was also found that secular group members show no significant differences in their negative or positive affect. The surveyed individuals also had similar profiles for conscientiousness (discipline or impulse control, and acting on values like \"pursuit of truth\"). Secular group members tended to be less agreeable (e.g. more likely to hold unpopular, socially challenging views), as well as more open minded (e.g. more likely to consider new ideas) than members of religious groups. Luke Galen, a personality researcher, writes \"Many previously reported characteristics associated with religiosity are a function not of belief itself, but of strong convictions and group identification.\" Catherine Caldwell-Harris notes that \"non-believers\" are interested in social justice concerns and posits that this is due to their lack of belief in an afterlife, leading to a focus on what can be fixed here and now. Another study by Caldwell-Harris describes atheists as being capable of experiencing awe, which she states debunks stereotypes of atheists as \"cynical and joyless\". A 2014 study created six different personality profiles of 'types' of nonbelievers and compared them to Big Five personality traits. In countries which have high levels of atheism such as Scandinavian nations, atheist organizations there generally have very low membership and only those that have links to a political party or offer legalized rituals have some noticeable membership.\n\nAccording to William Bainbridge's international study, atheism is common among people whose interpersonal social obligations are weak and is also connected to lower fertility rates in advanced industrial nations.\n\nIn a global study on atheism, sociologist Phil Zuckerman noted that countries with higher levels of atheism also had the highest suicide rates compared to countries with lower levels of atheism. He concludes that correlations does not necessarily indicate causation in either case. A study on depression and suicide suggested that those without a religious affiliation have a higher suicide attempt rates than those with a religious affiliation. A study into mental well-being in religious and non-religious people found that mental well-being for both religious people and non-religious people hinged on the certainty of their belief, and that previous studies had not controlled for the effect of belonging to a group when studying churchgoers. Benjamin Beit-Hallahmi regarded atheists in Western society to be \"much more likely to be a man, married, with higher education\", and regarded the personality of atheists to be \"less authoritarian and suggestible, less\ndogmatic, less prejudiced, more tolerant of others, law-abiding, compassionate, conscientious, and well educated. They are of high intelligence, and many are committed to the intellectual and scholarly life\". A review of the literature found that being non-religious did not necessarily entail poorer mental health.\n\nThough atheists are in the minority in most countries, they are relatively common in Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, East Asia and present communist states. It is difficult to determine actual atheist numbers. Furthermore, the conflation of terms such as atheist, agnostic, non-religious and non-theist add to confusion among poll data.\n\nAccording to the Encyclopædia Britannica, 2% of the world's population self-identify as atheists and the average annual global change for atheism from 2000 to 2010 was −0.17%. \nA 2002 survey by Adherents.com estimates the proportion of the world's people who are \"secular, non-religious, agnostics and atheists\" at about 14%.\n\nA 2004 survey by the BBC in 10 countries showed the proportion of the population \"who don't believe in God\" varying between 0% (Nigeria) and 39% (UK), with an average close to 17% in the countries surveyed, however, 8% of the respondents specifically stated that they consider themselves to be \"atheists\". Diversity was observed in the views of atheists including that \"across the entire sample, almost 30% of all atheists surveyed said they sometimes prayed.\"\n65% of those polled in a 2011 survey by the British Humanist Association answered no to the question \"Are you religious?\"\n\nA 2004 survey by the CIA in the World Factbook estimates about 12.5% of the world's population are non-religious, and about 2.4% are atheists.\n\nA 2005 poll by AP/Ipsos surveyed ten countries. Of the developed nations, people in the United States were \"most sure\" of the existence of God or a higher power (2% atheist, 4% agnostic), while France had the most skeptics (19% atheist, 16% agnostic). On the religion question, South Korea had the greatest percentage without a religion (41%) while Italy had the smallest (5%).\n\nA 2010 Pew Research global study found that 16 percent of the global population to be unaffiliated with a religion, however, Pew notes that \"more than three-quarters of the religiously unaffiliated live in Asia, the majority in China. Many of the people in this group do hold some religious or spiritual beliefs and may even believe in a deity, but they do not identify with a particular faith.\" Of the global atheist and nonreligious population, 76% reside in Asia and the Pacific, while the remainder reside in Europe (12%), North America (5%), Latin America and the Caribbean (4%), sub-Saharan Africa (2%) and the Middle East and North Africa (less than 1%).\n\nSociologist Phil Zuckerman's global studies on atheism have indicated that global atheism may be in decline due to irreligious countries having the lowest birth rates in the world and religious countries having higher birth rates in general.\n\nAccording to WIN/Gallup International, in their 2012 poll of 57 countries, 23% of respondents were \"not religious\" and 13% were \"convinced atheists\" and in their 2014 poll of 65 countries 22% were \"not religious\" and 11% were \"convinced atheists\". However, other researchers have advised caution with the WIN/Gallup International figures since other surveys which use the same wording, have conducted many waves for decades, and have a bigger sample size, such as World Values Survey; have consistently reached lower figures for the number of atheists worldwide.\n\nA Pew 2015 global projection study for religion and nonreligion projects that between 2010 and 2050 there will some initial increases of the unaffiliated followed by a decline by 2050 due to lower global fertility rates among this demographic.\n\nIn terms of the United States, a 2012 Pew report showed that 32% of people under 30, 21% of people between the ages of 30-49, 15% of people between the ages of 50-64 and 9% of people over the age of 65 could be characterized as religiously unaffiliated. However, 68% of all the unaffiliated expressed belief in God and out of the whole US population, only 2.4% self identified as \"atheist\".\n\nA 2013 poll by UPI/Harris showed that three-quarters of U.S. adults say they believe in God, down from 82 percent in 2005, 2007 and 2009. Just under 2-in-10 U.S. adults described themselves as very religious, with an additional 4-in-10 describing themselves as somewhat religious down from 49 percent in 2007. Twenty-three percent of Americans identified themselves as not at all religious, nearly double the 12 percent reported in 2007.\n\nThe 2015 Pew Religious Landscape survey reported that , 22.8% of the American population is religiously unaffiliated, atheists made up 3.1% and agnostics made up 4% of the US population.\n\nA 1998 survey based on a self-selected sample of biological and physical scientists of the National Academy of Sciences in the United States found that 7% believed in the existence of God, 72.2% did not, and 20.8% were agnostic or had doubts. Eugenie Scott argued that there are methodological issues in the study, including ambiguity in the questions. A study on leading scientists in the US, with clearer wording and allowing for a broader concept of \"god\", concluded that 40% of prominent scientists believe in god.\n\nIn 1916, 1,000 leading American scientists were randomly chosen from \"American Men of Science\" and 41.8% believed God existed, 41.5% disbelieved, and 16.7% had doubts/did not know; however when the study was replicated 80 years later using \"American Men and Women of Science\" in 1996, results were very much the same with 39.3% believing God exists, 45.3% disbelieved, and 14.5% had doubts/did not know.\n\nA 2014 survey by David Chalmers and David Bourget on nearly 1,000 professional philosophers from 99 leading departments of philosophy shows that 72.8% considered themselves as atheists, 14.6% considered themselves as theist, and 12.6% as something else.\n\nA TNSRMS Cameroun survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 29 October 2012, to 5 November, 2012, found that 3% of Cameroon were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nIn November 2013, al-Sabah estimated that up to 3 million (3.57%) Egyptians were atheists.\n\nA TNS RMS Ghana survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 7 November 2012, to 33 November, 2012, found that 0% of Ghana were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Infinite Insight survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted on November, 2014, found that 2% of Kenya were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA BJ Group survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted on 8 November, 2014, to 19 November, 2014 found that 1% of Morocco were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Market Trends International survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 13 October, 2014 to 9 November, 2014, found that 2% of Nigeria were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Topline Research Solutions (TRS) survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 24 December 2012, to 2 December, 2012, found that 4% of South Africa were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Infinite Insight survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 5 November 2012, to 6 December, 2012, found that 6% of South Sudan were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Emrhod International survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 24 November 2012, to 2 December, 2012, found that 0% of Tunisia were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA ACSOR-Surveys survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 1 November, 2014 to 10 November, 2014, found that 0.33% of Afghanistan were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA MPG LLC (Marketing Professional Group) survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted on November, 2014, found that 2% of Armenia were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA SIAR Research and Consulting Group survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 16 October, 2014, to 12 November, 2014, found that 0.1% of Azerbaijan were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA SRGB (SRG Bangladesh Limited) survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 5 November, 2014, to 25 November, 2014, found that 0.4% of Bangladesh were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA GORBI (Georgian Opinion Research Business International) survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 15 October, 2014, to 15 November, 2014, found that 1% of the Georgia were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA DataPrompt International survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 20 October, 2014 to 14 November, 2014, found that less than 3% of India were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Deka survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 15 October, 2014 to 5 November, 2014, found that 0.19% of Indonesia were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nAccording to Moaddel and Azadarmaki (2003), less than 5% of Iranians do not believe in God.\n\nA IIACSS survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 20 November 2012, to 2 December, 2012, found that 0% of Iraq were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Maagar Mochot ltd. survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted on November, 2014, found that 8% of Israel were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA NRC (Nippon Research Center) survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 31 October, 2014 to 12 November, 2014, found that 32% of Japan were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nAccording to Inglehart et al (2004), less than 1% of those in Jordan do not believe in God.\n\nA Romir survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 23 October, 2014 to 30 October, 2014, found that 8% of Kazakhstan were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nAccording to Froese (2004), 7% of those in Kyrgyzstan are atheist.\n\nA REACH (Research and Consulting House) survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 17 October, 2014 to 5 November, 2014, found that 2% of Lebanon were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA TNS Malaysia survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 27 October, 2014 to 15 November, 2014, found that 3% of Malaysia were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nAccording to Barret et al (2001), 9% of those in Mongolia are atheist.\n\nBarret et al (2001) report that 15% of North Koreans are atheist.\n\nA Gallup Pakistan survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 2 October, 2014 to 12 October, 2014, found that 1% of Pakistan were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Palestinian Center for Public Opinion (PCPO) survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 2 November, 2014 to 12 November, 2014, found that 1% of Palestine were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA WisdomAsia survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 1 November, 2014, to 15 November, 2014, found that 61% of the People's Republic of China were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA CSG survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 27 October, 2014, to 16 November, 2014, found that 34% of the Hong Kong were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA PSRC (Philippines Survey & Research Center Inc.) survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted on 9 October, 2014, to 12 November, 2014 found that 20% of Philippines were \"convinced atheists.\" \n\nAccording to Inglehart et al (2004), 14% of those in the Republic of China do not believe in God.\n\nA PARC (Pan Arab Research Center) survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted on November 2011, found that 5% of Saudi Arabia were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nInglehart et al (2004) found that 13% of those in Singapore do not believe in God.\n\nA Be Research (Index Kosova) survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 1 November, 2014 to 7 November, 2014, found that 6% of South Korea were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nAccording to Froese (2004), 2% of those in Tajikistan are atheist.\n\nA Infosearch survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 12 October, 2014 to 13 November, 2014, found that 1% of Thailand were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nAccording to Froese (2004), 2% of those in Turkmenistan are atheist.\n\nA Romir survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 16 November 2012, to 6 December, 2012, found that 2% of Uzbekistan were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Indochina Research survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted on 17 October, 2014, to 31 October, 2014 found that 13% of Vietnam were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nAccording to a 2010 Eurostat Eurobarometer Poll, 51% of European Union citizens responded that \"they believe there is a God\", whereas 26% answered that \"they believe there is some sort of spirit or life force\" and 20% said that \"they don't believe there is any sort of spirit, God, or life force\" and results were widely varied between different countries.\n\nAccording to another Poll about religiosity in the European Union in 2012 by Eurobarometer 16% are Non-believers/Agnostics and 7% are Atheists. 72% of EU citizens are Christians and 2% are Muslims.\n\n(*) 13% of respondents in Hungary identify as Presbyterian. In Estonia and Latvia, 20%\nand 19%, respectively, identify as Lutherans. And in Lithuania, 14% say they are “just a\nChristian” and do not specify a particular denomination. They are included in the “other”\ncategory.\n(**) Identified as \"don't know/refused\" from the \"other/idk/ref\" column are excluded from this statistic.\n(***) Figures may not add to subtotals due to rounding.\n\nAccording to the 2011 Albanian census found 2.5% of Albania were atheists.\n\nA Österreichisches Gallup Institute survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted on November, 2014, found that 13% of Austria were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Pew Research Center poll, conducted from June 2015 to July 2016, found that 2% of Belarus were atheists, while 9% stated that they \"Do not believe in God\".\n\nA iVOX bvba survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 28 October, 2014 to 18 November, 2014, found that 18% of Belgium were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Pew Research Center poll, conducted from June 2015 to July 2016, found that 2% of Bosnia and Herzegovina were atheists, while 4% stated that they \"Do not believe in God\".\n\nA Pew Research Center poll, conducted from June 2015 to July 2016, found that 2% of Bulgaria were atheists, while 17% stated that they \"Do not believe in God\".\n\nA Pew Research Center poll, conducted from June 2015 to July 2016, found that 4% of Croatia were atheists, while 10% stated that they \"Do not believe in God\".\n\nA 2010 Eurobarometer poll found that 3% of the Cyprus stated that \"I don't believe there is any sort of spirit, God or life force\".\n\nA Pew Research Center poll, conducted from June 2015 to July 2016, found that 25% of the Czech Republic were atheists, while 66% stated that they \"Do not believe in God\".\n\nA DMA/Research survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted on November, 2014, found that 12% of Denmark were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Pew Research Center poll, conducted from June 2015 to July 2016, found that 9% of Estonian population were atheists, while 45% stated that they \"Do not believe in God\".\n\nA Taloustutkimus Oy survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 19 October, 2014 to 7 November, 2014, found that 10% of Finland were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA BVA survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 20 October, 2014 to 23 October, 2014, found that 10% of France were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Produkt + Markt survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted on November, 2014, found that 17% of Germany were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Pew Research Center poll, conducted from June 2015 to July 2016, found that 3% of Greece were atheists, while 6% stated that they \"Do not believe in God\".\n\nA Pew Research Center poll, conducted from June 2015 to July 2016, found that 5% of Hungary were atheists, while 30% stated that they \"Do not believe in God\".\n\nA Capacent Gallup survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 29 October, 2014 to 12 November, 2014, found that 14% of Iceland were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Red C Research and Marketing survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 20 October, 2014 to 27 October, 2014, found that 10% of Ireland were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA DOXA survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 16 October, 2014 to 30 October, 2014, found that 6% of Italy were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Be Research (Index Kosova) survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 1 November, 2014, to 7 November, 2014 found that 1% of Kosovo were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Pew Research Center poll, conducted from June 2015 to July 2016, found that 3% of Latvia were atheists, while 15% stated that they \"Do not believe in God\".\n\nA Pew Research Center poll, conducted from June 2015 to July 2016, found that 2% of Lithuania were atheists, while 11% stated that they \"Do not believe in God\".\n\nA 2010 Eurobarometer poll found that 24% of the Luxembourg stated that \"I don't believe there is any sort of spirit, God or life force\". A 2012 Eurobarometer poll found that only 6% of the Luxembourg were \"convinced atheists.\" \n\nA BRIMA survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 1 November, 2014 to 24 November, 2014, found that 2% of the Republic of Macedonia were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA 2010 Eurobarometer poll found that 2% of the Malta stated that \"I don't believe there is any sort of spirit, God or life force\".\n\nA Pew Research Center poll, conducted from June 2015 to July 2016, found that 1% of Moldova were atheists, while 3% stated that they \"Do not believe in God\".\n\nAccording to the 2011 Montenegro census found 1.24% of Montenegro were atheists.\n\nA December 2014 survey by the VU University Amsterdam found that 25% of the Netherlands were atheists.\n\nA 2010 Eurobarometer poll found that 29% of the Norway stated that \"I don't believe there is any sort of spirit, God or life force\".\n\nA deeper analysis of the 2010 Eurobarometer poll found that 9% of the Norway were atheists.\n\nA Pew Research Center poll, conducted from June 2015 to July 2016, found that 2% of Poland were atheists, while 8% stated that they \"Do not believe in God\".\n\nA Pew Research Center poll, conducted from June 2015 to July 2016, found that 4% of Romania stated that they \"Do not believe in God\".\n\nA Pew Research Center poll, conducted from June 2015 to July 2016, found that 4% of Russia were atheists, while 15% stated that they \"Do not believe in God\".\n\nA 2010 Eurobarometer poll found that 13% of the Slovakia stated that \"I don't believe there is any sort of spirit, God or life force\".\n\nA 2010 Eurobarometer poll found that 26% of the Slovenia stated that \"I don't believe there is any sort of spirit, God or life force\".\n\nAccording to the Center for Sociological Research found that in May 2017 that 10.2% of Spain were atheists.\n\nA Pew Research Center poll, conducted from June 2015 to July 2016, found that 2% of Serbia were atheists, while 10% stated that they \"Do not believe in God\".\n\nA CMA Research survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 20 October, 2014 to 31 November, 2014, found that 17% of Sweden were \"convinced atheists.\" A Gallup Poll in 2016 reported that 18% of Swedes self report as atheist and 55% as non-religious.\n\nA Leger Switzerland survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 29 October, 2014 to 9 November, 2014, found that 12% of Switzerland were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Pew Research Center poll, conducted from June 2015 to July 2016, found that 3% of Ukraine were atheists, while 9% stated that they \"Do not believe in God\".\n\nA ORB International survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 19 November, 2014 to 28 November, 2014, found that 13% of the United Kingdom were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Leger survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted on November 2014, found that 12% of Canada were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nAccording to Barrett et al (2001), 7% of Cuba were atheist.\n\nAccording to Inglehart et al (2004), 7% of those in the Dominican Republic do not believe in God.\n\nA BRAIN Research survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 27 October, 2014, to 7 November, 2014 found that 4% of Mexico were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Dichter & Neira survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 16 October, 2014 to 19 October, 2014, found that 2% of Panama were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Colmar Brunton survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 4 November, 2014, to 11 November, 2014 found that 13% of Australia were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Tebbutt Research survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 1 November, 2014, to 15 November, 2014, found that 1% of the Fiji were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nThe International Social Survey Programme was conducted by Massey University in 2008 found 13% of New Zealand were atheists.\n\nA Tebbutt Research survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 1 November, 2014 to 15 November, 2014, found that 0.41% of Papua New Guinea were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA Voices! Research & Consultancy survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted on October 2014, found that 4% of Argentina were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA IBOPE Inteligência survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 13 November, 2014, to 17 November, 2014 found that 2% of Brazil were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nAccording to Inglehart et al (2004), 3% of those in Chile do not believe in God.\n\nA Centro Nacional de Consultoría survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 1 November, 2014, to 7 November, 2014, found that 3% of the Colombia were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA CEDATOS survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 31 October, 2014, to 20 November, 2014, found that 2% of the Ecuador were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nA DATUM Internacional survey, commissioned by WIN-Gallup International, conducted from 30 October, 2014 to 4 November, 2014, found that 2% of Peru were \"convinced atheists.\"\n\nAccording to a study by Eric Kaufmann in 2010, 24% of Uruguay were atheists.\n\n"}
{"id": "50071375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50071375", "title": "Dharasena", "text": "Dharasena\n\n\"Acharya\" Dharasena was a \"Digambara monk\" of first century CE.\n\n\"Āchārya\" Dharasena, in first century CE, guided two \"Āchāryas\", \"Āchārya\" Pushpadant and \"Āchārya\" Bhutabali, to put the teachings of Mahavira in the written form. The two \"Āchāryas\" wrote, on palm leaves, \"Ṣaṭkhaṅḍāgama\"- among the oldest known \"Digambara\" Jain texts. Digambara tradition consider him to be the 33rd teacher in succession of Gautama, 683 years after the \"nirvana\" of Mahavira.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2181051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2181051", "title": "Echinopsis peruviana", "text": "Echinopsis peruviana\n\nEchinopsis peruviana (syn. Trichocereus peruvianus), the Peruvian torch cactus, is a fast-growing columnar cactus native to the western slope of the Andes in Peru, between about above sea level. It contains the psychoactive alkaloid mescaline as well as other alkaloids, although reported levels vary considerably and do not approach the concentrations found in \"Echinopsis pachanoi\".\n\nThe plant is bluish-green in color, with frosted stems, and 6-9 broadly rounded ribs; it has large, white flowers. It can grow up to tall, with stems up to in diameter; it is fully erect to begin with, but later possibly arching over, or even becoming prostrate. Groups of 6-8 honey-colored to brown rigid spines, up to in length, with most about , are located at the nodes, which are evenly spaced along the ribs, up to approximately apart.\n\n\"Echinopsis peruviana\" ssp. \"puquiensis\" (Rauh & Backeb.) Ostolaza\n\nSome varieties, with scientifically invalid names, of \"Echinopsis peruviana\" are:\n\n\n\"Echinopsis peruviana\" is one of a number of \"Echinopsis\" species native to the Andes that have been reported to contain the psychoactive alkaloid mescaline. Others include \"E. pachanoi\", \"E. lageniformis\", \"E. scopulicola\", \"E. santaensis\" and \"E. puquiensis\". All those columnar species thought to be psychoactive have been called \"San Pedro\" in Spanish. Reported concentrations of mescaline vary widely, with causes suggested to include: taxonomic uncertainty leading to difficulties in identification; genetic differences between species and within populations; environmental factors, such as temperature and water availability, affecting plants during growth; and variations in laboratory techniques.\n\nSome studies have reported no mescaline content in wild-harvested Peruvian specimens of \"E. peruviana\", and in plants grown in Europe. In those studies that have compared different species and cultivars, when mescaline has been found, it has been at very much lower concentrations than in the highest yielding forms of other species; for example 0.24% of dry weight for \"E. peruviana\" KK242 compared to 4.7% for a strain of \"E. pachanoi\" on sale in traditional Peruvian shamans' markets, a factor of almost 20 times less.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39283194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39283194", "title": "Emanuel Raphael Belilios", "text": "Emanuel Raphael Belilios\n\nEmanuel Raphael Belilios, CMG, JP (14 November 1837 – 11 November 1905) was a Hong Kong Jewish opium dealer and businessman.\n\nBelilios was born in Calcutta, British India on 14 November 1837. His father was Raphael Emanuel Belilios, member of a Jewish Venetian family. Belilios married Simha Ezra in 1855, and in 1862 he settled in Hong Kong and engaged in trade. His fabulous success saw him described in the British press at the time as \"one of the merchant princes of the colony.\"\n\nIn the 1870s, Belilios was chairman of the Hongkong and Shanghai Hotels, Limited.\n\nHe tried to establish relations with the then British prime minister Benjamin Disraeli by proposing a marble and bronze statue of Disraeli, which was declined by the prime minister himself. Belilios erected the Beaconsfield Arcade, a reference to Disraeli title Lord Beaconsfield, in Hong Kong instead. However until his death Bellios would annually send a wreath to decorate the statue of Benjamin Disraeli on Parliament Square.\n\nHe became Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Chairman from 1876 to 1882, appointed to the Legislative Council of Hong Kong in 1881 and as the Council's Senior Unofficial Member from 1892 to 1900.\n\nBelilios gained his reputation as a philanthropist. In the years 1887 and 1888, Belilios gave out two annual scholarships valued at $60, to the students of the Hong Kong College of Medicine for Chinese and studying at the Alice Memorial Hospital. In August 1889, Belilios donated $25,000 to set up a girls' government school. The Belilios Public School was renamed from Central School for Girls in honour of Belilios.\n\nHis first son David Belilios perished in the plague of 1898.\n\nRegarding the Chinese population Belilios observed favourably that: “The native Chinese make no difference between a Jew and Christian. Both are foreigners in their eyes, but, if anything they are better affected towards the Jew who they regard as Asiatic like themselves.”\n\nBelilios died in London on 11 November 1905. On his death he bequeathed a £250,000 to found a free college for Jewish children in Calcutta.\n\nThe Belilios family originated in the Iberian Peninsula. Research in Jewish communal archives have traced the family to Portugal where they live for severals generations as New Christians. The Belilios family was forcibly converted in 1497 to Christianity along with the entire Jewish community of Portugal. In all likelihood the Belilios family remained ethnically apart and practiced crypto-Judaism as marranos until a wave of persecution targeted the elite Portuguese New Christian merchant families in the early seventeenth century.\n\nRaphael Belilios, who was known in Portugal as Filipo Terço, fled the inquisition to Venice. Like other families from the generation of refugees the Belilios family strained to pass on objects with a symbolic connection to their former homeland. In 1653 we see Raphael Belilios is recorded in Venice as leaving to his two daughters the silverware that had come with him from Lisbon to Venice.\n\nThe Belilios having settled in Venice in the early seventieth century regained their previous commercial success and within a century the family firm operated in Venice, Livorno and Aleppo. Jewish merchants engaged in Mediterranean trade at the time was conducted business through tight familial alliances with the Sepahrdic community. As a result, during the 18th century the Belilios family were the business partners of the Ergas, Baruch Carvaglio and Silvera families of Livorno. The Belilios and Carvaglio families intermarried for at least three generations establishing two prosperous merchants dynasties.\n\nFamily documents such as wills speak of the Belilios family belonging to \"the Jewish nation, of Spanish and Portuguese descent\" and \"established in Livorno, Venice, London, Amsterdam and Aleppo.\" This mapped the business interests and offices of the Belilios family partnerships which leveraged intense ethnic networking and marriage ties into lasting trading relationships. Trading documents show the Belilios family in the seventeenth and eighteenth century also intensely trading with Catholic and even Hindu merchants in Goa.\n\nHistorians have identified the Belilios family as culturally a type known as Port Jews a concept formulated by Lois Dubin and David Sorkin as a social type that engaged in seafaring and maritime economy of Europe in the seventeenth and eighteenth century. Port Jews according to Lois Dubin were marked by a flexibility towards religion, an engagement with European culture and \"a reluctant cosmopolitanism that was alien to both traditional and 'enlightened' Jewish identities.\" Families such as the Belilios have been described as \"the earliest modern Jews\" and offering an \"alternative path\" to Jewish modernity from the Court Jews and the Ashkenazi centred Haskalah.\n\nThe Belilios family, like many other Sepahrdic Jews operating out of Livorno, positioned themselves as central merchants and brokers in the booming trade of coral and diamonds coming from the Indian Ocean. Not traveling to India themselves they ran a family partnership in Aleppo and from there relied on a chain of mostly Mizrahi Jewish brokers and caravan traders through Syria, Iraq and Persia to connect them to their distant Hindu trading partners in the far off Portuguese colony.\n\nThe Belilios were not only traders but also Rabbis. Rabbi Jacob Belilios served the community of Venice in the early eighteenth century. Rabbi Jacob Belilios was one of the main Rabbinical voices in Italy who sought to suppress the mystical visionary and kabbalist Moshe Chaim Luzzato, for fear he was of a renewed outbreak of messianism less than a century since the crisis wrought by the heretical claims of Shabbatai Zvi.\n\nThe 1730s saw the Venetian Jewish community afflicted by a profound financial crisis and records show Rabbi Jacob Belilios in 1737–1738 was sent on a mission with a fellow member of the community to seek assistance from the flourishing Spanish and Portuguese Jews congregations in London and Amsterdam.\n\nThis downturn in Venetian affairs may have encouraged members of the family to settle permanently on Aleppo. The branch of the Belilios family which established itself and a branch of the family firm in Aleppo was one a clutch of Sephardic families known as the Livornese Jews under the protection of the French crown. Thus, in 1744 when Isaac Belilios is recorded as having killed a Muslim caravan conductor he was tried by the French consul.\n\nThese privileges caused friction within the Jewish community of long established and Ladino speaking Sepahrdic Jewish families and Arabic speaking Syrian Jews. The Livornese Jews of Aleppo were known as the \"Segnores Francos\" by these poorer Eastern Sephardim who were Jews long established in the Ottoman Empire. These families spoke Spanish, Portuguese, French and Italian rather than Ladino and their Arabic was basic at best.\n\nThere was also a cultural divide with the older Sepahrdic community. The Livornese families such as the Belilios were known in Aleppo to follow European customs when it came to dress. This included wearing whigs, hats and contravening Rabbinic ordinance went clean shaven. Like the other Western Sephardim the Belilios kept themselves apart, at least initially, from the poorer Eastern Sephardim or the Arabic speaking Jews of Baghdad and Persia they traded with. However, during the eighteenth century the Aleppo branch of the Belilios family was brought into ever closer trading relationships with Baghdadi Jews and Persian Jews.\n\nDuring the 18th century the Belilios are recorded as owning ships that travelled between Syria and Venice. However their fortunes sagged. The decline of Aleppo which was followed by the decline of Venice itself in the early 19th century saw a brand of the Belilios family establish itself in Basra to take advantage of the booming ocean trade with British India and then now intermarried with the leading families of the older Ladino speaking elite of Aleppo such as the Lanyado family move onwards to Calcutta and Singapore.\n\nBy the early nineteenth century the Belilios no longer operated as a united family and those established in the Far East were more modest merchants. This brought the Belilios family from being dominant players in the Western Sepahrdic world to outsiders in the flourishing Baghdadi Jewish diaspora, with who they intermarried including with the Gubbay and Judah families that were prominent in Calcutta. By the early nineteenth century the Belilios family established in the Far East has assimilated to Baghdadi Jewish culture and were primarily Arabic and English speaking.\n\nIsaac Raphael Belilios, the brother of Emmanuel Raphael Belilios, who was also born in Calcutta established himself in Singapore, with whom the Baghdadi Jews of Calcutta were in constant contact, and went on to dominate the cattle market. Belilios Lane, Belilios Terrace and Belilios Road in Singapore are named after him.\n\nThe stunning success of Emmanuel Raphael Belilios in Hong Kong catapulted the family to wealth and then to Great Britain. The son of Emmanuel Raphael Belilios, Raphael Emanuel Belilios (or \"Billy\"), was a barrister in England. He was admitted to the Middle Temple in 1900 and called to the Bar in 1903.\n\nIn the same year, Raphael had an arranged marriage to Vera Charlotte Hart, the only daughter of Sir Israel Hart of Holland Park and Lady Charlotte Victoria of Knighton, Leicester Raphael was admitted to the Bar on 16 May 1903. He occupied chambers at Middle Temple from 1904 to 1922. The death of Raphael Emmanuel Bellios meant unlike other Baghdadi Jewish families such as the Sassoons the fortune of Emanuel Raphael Belilios did not establish a dynasty.\n\nPlaques on the wall of the Spanish Synagogue in Venice record that many of the last members of the Belilios family established in Venice perished in the Holocaust.\n\n"}
{"id": "2058291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058291", "title": "Evangelist portrait", "text": "Evangelist portrait\n\nEvangelist portraits are a specific type of miniature included in ancient and mediaeval illuminated manuscript Gospel Books, and later in Bibles and other books, as well as other media. Each Gospel of the Four Evangelists, the books of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, may be prefaced by a portrait of the Evangelist, usually occupying a full page. Their symbols may be shown with them, or separately. Often they are the only figurative illumination in the manuscript. They are a common feature in larger Gospel Books from the earliest examples in the 6th century until the decline of that format for illustrated books in the High Middle Ages, by which time their conventions were being used for portraits of other authors. \nThey originate in the classical secular tradition of the author portrait, which was often the only illustration in a classical manuscript, also used as a frontispiece (not unlike the contemporary author photo, though this is usually shown on the back cover or wrapper). A very few examples of Late Antique secular author portraits survive, and rather more later copies. Some examples also draw on the conventions of the Late Antique consular portrait, much used for the Emperors, who were also consuls. Examples of these, copied from the original, can be seen in the Chronography of 354 (see also the Missorium of Theodosius I of 30 years later). The Evangelist may be holding a book, but is not writing in it, and he faces the front on a large throne, surrounded by an elaborate frame, usually domed or pedimented. These frameworks are thought to draw from the style of the Scaenae frons, or elaborate proscenium structures of Roman theatres.\n\nThe traditional symbols of the Evangelists were often included in the images, or especially in the Insular tradition, either given their own additional images on a separate page, or used instead of an evangelist portrait. The symbols are: the Lion of Mark, the Eagle of John, the Ox or Calf of Luke and the Angel or Man of Matthew. Often all are shown with wings, as in the familiar winged lion used in the coat of arms of Venice, whose patron saint was Mark. Sometimes, as in the example from Lorsch, the symbols are shown dictating the text to the evangelist.\n\nLate Antique evangelist portraits often show standing figures, as in the ivory panels of the Throne of Maximianus in Milan, but from the Insular art of the 7th to 10th centuries, evangelist portraits in manuscripts nearly always closely followed the seated classical models, showing the Evangelists at full-length, either looking out at the viewer or writing at a table or desk and seen at an oblique angle. These were derived from unknown classical prototypes, similar to those in the Codex Amiatinus and Saint Augustine Gospels, though both of these types are rather different from the general types. Usually a setting is provided for the figure. Details of the classical models, such as anachronistic scrolls and scroll-boxes, and a small writing-stand with a single dolphin-shaped support (see gallery below), survive well into the Middle Ages, sometimes clearly misunderstood by the artists concerned. Perhaps because of the secular origins of the typology, haloes are less likely to be worn than in other types of image. The level of detail shown in the furniture and fittings is unusual for Early Medieval art. An arch behind the author, often with curtains hanging across it, in some examples close to the classical models, gradually is turned into a decorative framing device for the whole scene.\n\nEarly Gospel Books often had a very elaborate and costly treasure binding or cover in metalwork, often with jewels and ivories. These most often featured a central panel with Christ in Majesty, often including the Evangelists and/or their symbols in the corners. Versions of the same composition appear in all media used for Early Medieval religious art, including wall paintings. The Tassilo Chalice is an 8th-century example of pure metalwork with five oval medallion portraits of Christ and the Evangelists (with symbols) round the cup.\n\nThe early artists of the Insular period often show evangelists from the front who appear to be standing, although a chair is drawn behind them; the human figure was not a focus of interest or skill for these artists. Later Insular depictions seem to show figures without chairs, who are standing. Most of Europe continued to use the seated model however, usually seen in a three-quarters on view, and usually with a cushion behind. Sometimes all four evangelists were combined on a page, sometimes around a Christ in Majesty. Standing portraits were usual, however, for wall and later panel paintings (and in the Tree of Jesse composition) with the Evangelists often treated as, and mixed with, other saints. \nThe Gospel book as a medium for heavily illustrated manuscripts declined in the West from the Romanesque period, and with it the use of the Evangelist portrait. In the Eastern Orthodox world, the Gospel Book remained a primary focus for illumination, and Evangelist portraits, derived from contemporary Byzantine versions, are heavily represented among the earliest illuminations from the new Slav national traditions, such as the 11th-century Ostromir Gospels and the Khitrovo Gospels of about 1390 from Muscovy. In the West the portraits continued to be found in Bibles, more often as the picture within a historiated initial at the start of each Gospel. Other books sometimes contained them as well. Similar compositions began to be used for other saint-authors, especially for St Jerome, who is often shown in a book-lined study, often with his symbol, a lion, dozing at his feet. Similarly St Gregory the Great may be shown with a dove, representing his inspiration from the Holy Spirit, whispering in his ear.\n\n"}
{"id": "16144811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16144811", "title": "Freedom of religion in Laos", "text": "Freedom of religion in Laos\n\nThe Constitution provides for freedom of religion; however, the Government restricted this right in practice. Some government officials committed abuses of citizens' religious freedom.\nDuring the period covered by this report, the overall status of respect for religious freedom did not significantly change. While respect for non-Protestant groups appeared to improve slightly, respect for Protestant groups appeared to decline in several parts of the country. In most areas, officials generally respected the constitutionally guaranteed rights of members of most faiths to worship, albeit within strict constraints imposed by the Government. Authorities in some areas continued to display intolerance for minority religious practice especially by Protestant Christians. The Lao Front for National Construction (LFNC), a popular front organization for the Lao People's Revolutionary Party (LPRP), was responsible for oversight of religious practice. The Prime Minister's Decree on Religious Practice (Decree 92) was the principal legal instrument defining rules for religious practice. Decree 92 also institutionalized the Government's role as the final arbiter of permissible religious activities. Although this decree has contributed to greater religious tolerance since it was promulgated in 2002, authorities have increasingly used its many conditions to restrict some aspects of religious practice.\n\nDuring the period covered by this report, some local officials pressured minority Protestants to renounce their faith on threat of arrest or forceful eviction from their villages. Such cases occurred in Bolikhamsai, Houaphan, and Luang Namtha provinces. Arrests and detention of Protestants occurred in Luang Namtha, Oudomsai, Salavan, Savannakhet, and Vientiane provinces. Two Buddhist monks were arrested in Bolikhamsai Province for having been ordained without government authorization. In some areas, minority Protestants were forbidden from gathering to worship. In areas where Protestants were actively proselytizing, local officials have sometimes subjected them to \"reeducation.\"\n\nA Christian man in Salavan Province was arrested on April 1, 2006 for refusing to renounce his faith and placed under house arrest until his release in late July 2006. At the end of the period covered by this report, there were four known religious prisoners, as well as at least seven other Protestants who were apparently being detained without charges for other than religious reasons, but in whose cases religion was suspected to have played a role. Conflicts between ethnic groups and movement among villages sometimes exacerbated religious tensions. The efforts of some Protestant congregations to establish churches independent of the Lao Evangelical Church (LEC) continued to cause strains within the Protestant community.\n\nThe country has an area of and a population of 6.4 million. Almost all ethnic or \"lowland\" Lao are followers of Theravada Buddhism; however, lowland Lao constitute only 40-50 percent of the population. The remainder of the population belongs to at least 48 distinct ethnic minority groups. Most of these ethnic minorities are practitioners of animism, with beliefs that vary greatly among groups. Animism is predominant among most Sino-Thai groups, such as the Thai Dam and Thai Daeng, as well as among Mon-Khmer and Burmo-Tibetan groups. Even among lowland Lao, many pre-Buddhist animistic religious beliefs have been incorporated into Theravada Buddhist practice. Catholics and Protestants constitute approximately 2 percent of the population. Other minority religious groups include those practicing the Baha'i faith, Islam, Mahayana Buddhism, and Confucianism. A very small number of citizens follow no religion.\n\nThe Constitution, promulgated in 1991, provides for freedom of religion; however, local authorities in particular sometimes violated this right. Article 30 of the Constitution provides for freedom of religion, a fact frequently cited by officials in reference to religious tolerance. Article 9 of the Constitution, however, discourages all acts that create divisions among religious groups and persons. The Government has interpreted this clause restrictively, and both local and central government officials widely refer to Article 9 as a reason for placing constraints on religious practice, especially proselytizing and the expansion of Protestantism among minority groups. Although official pronouncements acknowledge the existence of different religious groups, they emphasize religion's potential to divide, distract, or destabilize.\n\nA person arrested or convicted for religious offenses, as with most other alleged civil liberties violations, had little protection under the law. Detained persons may be held for lengthy periods without trial. Court judges, not juries, decided guilt or innocence in court cases, and the defense rights of the accused were limited. All religious groups, including Buddhists, practice their faith in an atmosphere in which application of the law is arbitrary. Certain actions interpreted by officials as threatening brought harsh punishment. Religious practice was \"free\" only if practitioners stayed within tacitly understood guidelines of activity acceptable to the Government.\n\nThe Government typically refused to acknowledge any wrongdoing on the part of its officials, even in egregious cases of religious persecution. Blame was usually attributed to the victims rather than the persecuting officials. In some past cases, officials concocted patently unbelievable explanations for events in order to exonerate local officials. While the Government has sometimes admitted that local officials are often part of the problem, it has been unwilling to take action against officials who have violated laws and regulations on religious freedom.\n\nIn its 20 articles, Decree 92 establishes guidelines for religious activities in a broad range of areas. While the decree provides that the Government \"respects and protects legitimate activities of believers,\" it also seeks to ensure that religious practice \"conforms to the laws and regulations.\" Decree 92 reserves for the LFNC the \"right and duty to manage and promote\" religious practice, requiring that nearly all aspects of religious practice receive the approval of the LFNC office having responsibility for the village, district, and province where the activity occurs and, in some cases, requiring approval from the central level LFNC.\n\nDecree 92 legitimizes proselytizing by Lao citizens, printing religious materials, owning and building houses of worship, and maintaining contact with overseas religious groups–all contingent upon a strict approval process. In practice, the Government used the approval process to restrict the religious activities of certain groups and has effectively prevented some religious denominations from importing and printing religious materials as well as constructing houses of worship.\n\nThe Government required several religious groups, apparently with the exception of Buddhists and Catholics, to report membership information periodically to the Religious Affairs Department of the LFNC. The Government also restricted the publication of religious materials that applied to most religious groups, again excepting Buddhists.\n\nBoth the Constitution and Decree 92 assert that religious practice should serve national interests by promoting development and education and instructing believers to be good citizens. The Government presumed both a right and a duty to oversee religious practice at all levels to ensure religious practice fills these roles in society. In effect this has led the Government to intervene in the activities of minority religious groups, particularly Protestants, on the grounds that their practices did not promote national interests or demonstrated disloyalty to the Government.\n\nAlthough the state is secular in name and practice, members of governmental institutions are by-and-large followers of Theravada Buddhism, the religion of the majority of the ethnic Lao population. The Government's exemption of Buddhism from many of the Decree 92 restrictions imposed on other organized religions and its promotion of Buddhism as an element of the country's cultural and spiritual identity gave Theravada Buddhism the status of an unofficial national religion. Many persons regarded Buddhism as both an integral part of the national culture and a way of life. The increasing incorporation of Buddhist ritual and ceremony in state functions reflected the elevated status of Buddhism in society.\n\nIn some areas where animism predominated among ethnic minority groups, local authorities have actively encouraged those groups to adopt Buddhism and abandon their \"backward\" beliefs in magic and spirits. The Government discouraged animist practices that it regarded as outdated, unhealthy, or illegal, such as the practice in some tribes of killing children born with defects or of burying the bodies of deceased relatives under peoples' homes.\n\nAlthough the Government did not maintain diplomatic relations with the Holy See, representatives of the Papal Nuncio visited from Thailand and coordinated with the Government on assistance programs, especially for lepers and persons with disabilities.\n\nSince 2001 the Government has more closely scrutinized the activities of Laos' small Muslim population but has not interfered with the community's religious activities. Muslims in the small Islamic community were able to practice their faith openly and attend the two active mosques. Daily prayers and the weekly Jumaat prayer on Fridays proceeded unobstructed, and all Islamic celebrations were allowed. Muslims were permitted to go on the Hajj. Groups that conduct Tabligh teachings for the faithful came from Thailand once or twice per year. In 2006, a local Muslim joined with members of other religious groups to represent the Government at an Interfaith Conference on Religion in Jakarta, Indonesia.\n\nThe Government observes two religious holidays, the That Luang Festival (the end of Buddhist Lent) and the Buddhist New Year. It recognized the popularity and cultural significance of Buddhist festivals, and most senior officials openly attended them. The Government generally allowed major religious festivals of all established congregations without hindrance.\n\nAuthorities require new denominations to join other religious groups with similar historical antecedents despite clear differences between the groups' beliefs. In March 2004 the LFNC's Order Number 1 required all Protestant groups to become a part of the LEC or the Seventh-day Adventist Church. The order stated that no other denominations would be permitted to register, a measure to prevent \"disharmony\" in the religious community. Although the Prime Minister's Decree on Religious Practice establishes procedures for new denominations to register, the Government's desire to consolidate religious practice for purposes of control has effectively blocked new registrations. In theory, denominations not registered with the LFNC were not allowed to practice their faith.\n\nThere was no religious instruction in public schools nor were there any parochial or religiously-affiliated schools operating in the country. However, several private pre-schools and English language schools received support from religious groups abroad. In practice many boys spent some time in Buddhist temples, where they received instruction in religion as well as in academics. Temples traditionally have filled the role of schools and continued to play this role in smaller communities where formal education was limited or unavailable. Christian denominations, particularly the LEC, Seventh-day Adventists, and the Catholic Church, operated Sunday schools for children and young persons. Baha'i Spiritual Assemblies conducted religious training for children as well as for adult members.\n\nThe Government requires and routinely granted permission for formal links with co-religionists in other countries. In practice the line between formal and informal links was blurred, and relations generally were established without much difficulty.\n\nThe Government's tolerance of religion varied by region and by religion. Throughout the country, however, religious practice was restrained by official rules and policies that only allowed religious groups to practice their faith under circumscribed conditions. LEC members and other Protestant groups that have wanted to be recognized as separate from the LEC continued to be the targets of most restrictions. The Buddhist Supreme Patriarch, or Sangkarat, maintained close links to the Government. Government officials commonly invited Buddhist monks to bless newly opened Government buildings and offices. As a result of the Government's decentralization policy that diffused power to provinces and districts, central government control over the behavior of provincial, district, and local officials was weakened. Local officials were often unaware of government policies on topics such as religious tolerance due to the incomplete dissemination and application of existing laws and regulations and, when aware of the laws, often failed to enforce the laws. The LFNC at times visited areas where religious persecution had taken place in order to instruct local officials on government policy and regulation. More often, however, the LFNC's Religious Affairs Department encouraged local or provincial governments to resolve conflicts on their own and in accordance with Decree 92.\n\nIn some areas unauthorized churches have generally been allowed to conduct services without hindrance by local authorities. Within the LEC, some congregations have sought greater independence and have forged their own connections with Protestant groups abroad. Authorities in several provinces insisted that independent church congregations return to the LEC, but in other areas authorities allowed independent churches to conduct services without hindrance.\n\nMethodists have consistently sought to register with the LFNC since the beginning of this decade as a separate denomination. In early 2006, Methodists again requested to register with the Government as a religious group separate and apart from the LEC but received no official response. In early 2006 some village and district officials appeared to be taking a stronger stance against unauthorized Methodist congregations; however, this reportedly tapered off in late 2006.\n\nBetween 1999 and 2001 local authorities closed approximately 20 of Vientiane Province's 60 LEC churches. Beginning in 2002, most of these churches were allowed to reopen. However, despite requests, officials in several districts of Savannakhet Province did not allow local congregations to reopen as many as 6 of Savannakhet's approximately 40 churches, and they remained closed at the end of the reporting period. Despite recent requests that a church building in Dong Nong Khun Village, which was confiscated by local officials in 2000, be returned to its congregation, provincial officials stated in early 2007 that the number of Protestants in the village was not sufficient to warrant having a church even though local Protestants claimed more than 100 worshippers in the village.\n\nAs many as 200 of the LEC's nearly 400 congregations do not have permanent church structures and conduct worship services in members' homes. Since the 2002 promulgation of Decree 92, officials from the LFNC's Religious Affairs Department have stated that home churches should be replaced with designated church structures whenever possible. At the same time, village and district LFNC offices often refused permission to construct new churches, and home churches remained the only viable place of worship for many LEC congregations. The LEC continued to encounter difficulties registering new congregations and receiving permission to establish new places of worship or repair existing facilities, particularly in Luang Prabang City, Attapeu, Luang Namtha, and Savannakhet provinces. No new LEC churches were permitted during the reporting period.\n\nBaha'i spiritual assemblies in Vientiane and Savannakhet cities practiced freely, but smaller communities in Khammouane and Savannakhet provinces periodically faced restrictions by local authorities, such as limitations on both the nature and extent of some religious activities.\n\nLao authorities remained suspicious of major supporters, both foreign and domestic, of religious communities other than Buddhism, especially Protestant groups, in part because these faiths do not share the high degree of direction and incorporation into the government structure that Theravada Buddhism does. Some authorities criticized Christianity as an American or imperialist \"import\" into the country. In the past decade, the LEC suffered the brunt of local-level efforts to close churches, arrest church leaders, and force members to renounce their faith. The LEC's rapid growth during the last decade, its contacts with religious groups abroad, the active proselytizing by some of its members, and its relative independence of government control contributed to the Government's suspicion of the church's activities. Some authorities also interpreted Christian teachings of obedience to God as signifying disloyalty to the Government and ruling party. There was also strong evidence that the Communist Party leadership viewed Christianity as a tool of western countries to undermine the Communist political system. While LEC leadership was primarily Lao, the LEC membership was mostly ethnic Mon-Khmer tribes and the Hmong, two groups that historically have resisted central Government control, which contributed to the Government's distrust of the LEC.\n\nDuring the reporting period there were no reports of official interference with or denial of permission to hold religious celebrations in churches, but there were reports that Protestants in some villages were not allowed to hold Christian celebrations in their homes, thus restricting Protestant activities to church buildings only. This was particularly a problem for Protestants who had not been given approval to build church structures in their villages. For example, Protestants in Nakun Village, Bolikhamsai Province, and Xunya Village, Luang Namtha Province, have reportedly been restricted in their ability to hold religious meetings and celebrations in their homes. Protestants in both villages also have not been given approval to build church structures.\n\nLongstanding restrictions on the Catholic Church's operations in the north resulted in the continued existence of only a handful of small congregations in Sayaboury, Bokeo, Luang Namtha, and Vientiane provinces; however, there were signs during the reporting period that the Government was slowly easing its control over the Catholic community in the north. The Government permitted more frequent visits by the Bishop of Luang Prabang to the north to conduct services for the scattered Catholic community there, but it continued to restrict his travel and prevent his residence in Luang Prabang. There were no ordained Catholic priests operating in the north. Several church properties, including a school in Vientiane Municipality, were seized by the Government after 1975 and have not been returned, nor has the Government provided restitution.\n\nThe Government prohibited foreigners from proselytizing, although it permitted foreign NGOs with religious affiliations to work in the country. Authorities sometimes seized religious tracts and teaching materials from local Protestants entering the country from abroad and arrested and expelled foreigners attempting to proselytize. In early 2006 two South Koreans were reportedly arrested for proselytizing in Bokeo Province and were expelled.\n\nAlthough Decree 92 authorized the printing of non-Buddhist religious texts and allowed religious materials to be imported from abroad, it also required permission for such activities from the LFNC. The LFNC did not authorize Christian or Baha'i denominations to print their own religious materials, although both groups have sought permission to do so for several years. Because of these restrictions, some approved Protestant congregations complained of difficulties in obtaining Bibles and other religious materials. The Government has not allowed the Seventh-day Adventists to import Bibles or other religious materials, but the Government did allow the LEC to import a small number of Bibles in early 2007.\n\nDuring the reporting period, Bibles were confiscated at the Lao-Thai Friendship Bridge from those attempting to import materials for existing congregations. However, there were no reports of arrests associated with these confiscations, as had occurred in past years. Several non-Christian groups indicated that they have not been restricted in bringing religious materials into the country.\n\nThe Government generally did not interfere with citizens wishing to travel abroad for short-term religious training. In past years, the Government required that Lao citizens exiting the country receive an exit stamp. This requirement was eliminated in early 2007. Even before the exit stamp requirement was eliminated, many persons of all faiths traveled abroad informally for religious training without obtaining advance permission and without informing authorities of the purpose of their travel. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs usually granted exit visas, but on occasion it refused travel permission to persons going abroad for what it regarded as suspect activities.\n\nIdentity cards did not specify religion, nor did family \"household registers\" or passports, two other important forms of identification. On occasion authorities withheld new ID cards or household registers from Protestants because of their religious beliefs or threatened to withhold official documentation unless they renounced their faith. In 2006 district officials in Houaphan Province reportedly accepted several passport applications from Protestants within their district but subsequently refused to send the applications to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for processing.\n\nAuthorities continued to arrest and detain persons for their religious activities. Detentions that occurred during the reporting period tended to be longer than in 2005-2006. At the end of the period covered by this report, there were four religious prisoners: three in Vientiane Province and one in Oudomsai Province. There was also one abduction of a man in Luang Namtha Province in January 2007 in which religion may have played a role. Additionally, six ethnic Hmong, five males and one adult female, who had been detained in 2005 as part of a group of 27, apparently remained in detention at the end of the reporting period. While religion was not considered the primary reason for their detentions, it was considered to be one factor involved. Conditions in prisons were reportedly harsh; like other prisoners, religious detainees suffered from inadequate food rations, lack of medical care, and cramped quarters.\n\nFrom late 2006 through the end of the reporting period, Protestants in Xunya Village of Luang Namtha Province have reportedly been restricted in their right to worship by local officials. Following the death of a local member of the Protestant community in March 2007, local officials reportedly refused the community permission to hold a Christian funeral service. In May 2007 the LFNC reportedly gave permission for Christian weddings and funerals to take place in the village, but Protestants are reportedly not allowed to gather for worship services. In January 2007 several Christian families in Long District of Luang Namtha Province and Xiang Kho District of Houaphan Province were reportedly asked to renounce their Christian beliefs by local and district-level officials or leave their villages.\n\nIn March 2007 Protestants in Nakun Village of Bolikhamsai Province were reportedly reeducated and asked to sign statements indicating that they had engaged in proselytizing. The Protestants were reported as saying that they had been pressured by local officials in regard to their Christian beliefs and had been reeducated several times. Also in March, several Protestant families in Nam Deua Village of Bolikhamsai Province were reportedly told to give up their religious beliefs and threatened with expulsion from their village. In May 2007 7 of the ten Christian families in Nakun Village were reportedly forced to resettle to another village after refusing to renounce their Protestant beliefs.\n\nIn January 2007 Mr. Khamsone Baccam, an ethnic Thai Dam man described as a Protestant leader, was arrested in Oudomsai Province. The Government has been unwilling to acknowledge that he is being held, and multiple requests for information about his status were not answered.\n\nAlso in January 2007, Mr. Somphone Khantisouk was abducted from a roadside in Luang Namtha Province, reportedly by local police. While the exact reason for Somphone's abduction is unclear, religion is not considered to be the primary cause. However, some in the religious community have indicated that his perceived religious affiliation may have been one factor involved in his abduction.\n\nBolikhamsai Province officials indicated in February 2007 that two Buddhist monks had been arrested for being ordained without Government approval and for celebrating inappropriately following the ordination ceremony. The two were reportedly only detained a short time before being released.\n\nIn December 2006 five ethnic Yao Protestants were arrested in Luang Namtha Province for constructing a church building without appropriate authorization. The five men were released on January 20, 2007, reportedly after complying with a local official's request that they sign a document renouncing their faith. Since their release, the men have reportedly been closely watched by local officials and have not been allowed to gather for worship services.\n\nIn late 2006 several villagers in Luang Namtha Province were reportedly called into a local police station and questioned following a children's performance in the village. Reportedly, local officials incorrectly thought that the performance may have had some relationship to a \"foreign religion.\"\n\nIn November 2006 two ethnic Khmu U.S. Legal Permanent Residents who were visiting Khon Khen Village in Vientiane Province were detained after participating in and videotaping a Protestant celebration in the village. The two, a pastor and his wife, were released after three-weeks' detention and payment of a $9,000 fine.\n\nThirteen ethnic Khmu Protestants in Khon Khen Village were also arrested in November 2006. According to government officials, 1 of the 13 was quickly released after it was discovered that he was a local official. Nine of the 12 other Khmu Protestants were released from a police detention facility on May 16. Three pastors, considered the leaders of the group, remained in prison at the end of the reporting period. The Government has not indicated if there are any charges against the three that remain incarcerated.\n\nIn August 2006 two LEC members in Saveth Village, Savannakhet Province, were arrested, reportedly for being outspoken about their faith. The two men were held without charges for several months. Eventually, they were charged with \"causing division in society\" and sentenced to six months in prison. The two were released on February 9, 2007.\n\nFrom June through July 2006, a Protestant man in Nam Heng Village of Oudomsai Province was reportedly jailed for possessing ammunition at his residence. According to the LEC, the man had completed his service in the military and did have a small amount of ammunition at his residence, not unusual in remote villages where people engage in hunting. The Protestant community, however, regarded the ammunition as an excuse for his arrest, believing the real reason was local officials' opposition to his Christianity. The man was released in July following payment of a $200 fine.\n\nIn April 2006 district officials in Salavan Province arrested an LEC member, Mr. Adern, who refused the village chief's order to recant his faith. He was reportedly from one of four Protestant families that had lived in the village, two of which had reportedly been forced to leave by the time of his arrest. During the first 10 days of house arrest he was reportedly bound with wrist and ankle shackles but was then unshackled and allowed to move freely in his home. Mr. Adern was released from house arrest in July 2006.\n\nIn 2005 authorities in Bolikhamsai Province detained a group of 27 ethnic Hmong. The group—all but one minors at the time they were initially detained—were residents at the Petchabun displaced-persons' settlement in northern Thailand, and were irregularly deported back to Laos by Thai authorities who considered them illegal immigrants. Some sources indicated that the group members were Christians and may have been detained in Laos in part due to their religious affiliation. Six of the 27 Hmong were apparently still in detention or otherwise unaccounted for at the end of the reporting period. Complicating this case, the Government had refused to acknowledge it was holding the group of 27 for 15 months and, only in March 2007, did it claim it had \"found\" the 21 girls from the group. The Government released the girls into the custody of extended family members but did not allow the presence of international observers at the release ceremony. Many of the girls have reportedly returned to Thailand. The Government still has not accounted for the five males and one adult female.\n\nIn late 2005 an unapproved LEC Church in Houaysay Noi Village, Bokeo Province, was destroyed by local officials, and six church leaders were arrested. One of the six died while in jail, and the other five were released in early 2006.\n\nIn 1999, authorities arrested two members of the Lao Evangelical Church in Oudomsai Province, Mr. Nyoht and Mr. Thongchanh, and charged them with treason and sedition, although their arrests appeared to have been for proselytizing. Nyoht was sentenced to 12 years in prison and Thongchanh to 15 years. In October 2006 Nyoht died while in prison. Thongchanh remained in prison at the end of this reporting period despite appeals that his case be reviewed.\n\nEfforts by local officials to force Protestants to renounce their faith continued in some areas. In some cases, officials threatened religious minorities with arrest or expulsion from their villages if they did not comply.\n\nIn January 2007 officials in Long District of Luang Namtha Province and Xiang Kho District of Houaphan Province reportedly threatened several Protestant families with expulsion if they did not renounce their beliefs. In March 2007 officials in Nam Deua District of Bolikhamsai Province also reportedly pressured some Protestants to renounce their beliefs.\n\nLands belonging to several Protestant families in Nam Heng Village of Oudomsai Province were reportedly confiscated by the village chief and redistributed to other villagers in early 2006. Some other Protestants who had previously resettled to the village were said to have returned to their home province of Phongsaly after being pressured by the village chief. According to Lao officials and the LEC, the land confiscation issue was resolved in mid-2006. Local Protestants in the village indicated in early 2007 that, while opposition to Christianity may have complicated the issue, most of those whose lands were confiscated had moved to Nam Heng Village without Government authorization.\n\nIn February 2005 authorities expelled Protestant villagers from Ban Kok Pho Village of Bolikhamsai Province after they refused to renounce their faith.\n\nIn early 2005 authorities in Muang Phin District of Savannakhet Province detained 24 ethnic Brou Protestants associated with the LEC at the district police office for several days in order to force their renunciation of faith. All but two of the men recanted their faith. These two men were imprisoned for approximately 1 year but were reportedly released in early 2006.\n\nLocal officials in some areas attempted to force Protestants to renounce their faith; however, there were no reports of explicit forced conversion to another faith during the reporting period. In cases where renunciations occurred, villagers were told by local officials that they would be expelled from their villages if they did not sign documents renouncing their faith. In at least one case, villagers in Nakun Village of Bolikhamsai Province who chose not to renounce their beliefs were reported to have been relocated by local officials. According to Protestants following the incident, village officials had suggested that Protestant villagers convert to Buddhism or to their previously held animist beliefs. The same officials reportedly told villagers that Protestantism is not good because it is an American religion.\n\nThere were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S. citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.\n\nThe Government's record of respect for religious freedom, particularly in regard to Protestant minorities, continued to be marred by problems at the local level, with incidents of persecution occurring in many provinces. However, some positive steps were taken during the reporting period to address specific religious freedom concerns.\n\nIn its official pronouncements in recent years, the Government called for conciliation and equality among religious faiths. The LFNC continued to instruct local officials on religious tolerance. Officials from the LFNC traveled with representatives of the LEC to several provinces to promote better understanding between LEC congregations and local officials.\n\nThe LEC continued to conduct an active program of public service during this reporting period, providing developmental assistance and organizing social welfare projects in several areas that had previously experienced religious intolerance. In conjunction with the LFNC, the LEC continued to conduct meetings with officials and Protestants in some villages where there had been religious tensions.\n\nOn May 6, 2007 the LEC opened a Sports and Vocational Training Center in Vientiane Municipality on a piece of property that had been confiscated by the Government several years earlier. The land was returned to the LEC contingent on the Center being made available for use by Lao athletes to prepare for the 2009 South East Asian Games.\n\nIn early 2007 church members in Houaysay Noi Village, Bokeo Province, were given approval to meet in a house church. The village had previously experienced problems, when in late 2005, an unapproved LEC Church in Houaysay Noi Village was destroyed by local officials, and six church leaders were arrested. One of the six died while in jail, and the other five were released in early 2006.\n\nIn the past, local officials in some areas obstructed Christian congregations' observance of religious holidays such as Christmas. Church officials indicated that Christmas activities at recognized religious venues in 2006 were less restricted than in 2005, particularly in Vientiane Municipality.\n\nChurches that had previously been closed were allowed to reopen in some provinces in 2006. The Government permitted the reopening of four LEC churches in Bolikhamsai Province that were officially closed in past years, including a church in Khamsan Village that had been closed since 2003. Officials in Muang Feuang District of Vientiane Province granted permission for LEC members to reconstruct a destroyed church in Phone Ngam Village in late 2005, and the church has since reopened. During the reporting period, there were no reported LEC church closures.\n\nIn contrast to the past policy of denying all such requests, several provinces also permitted some Christian congregations to expand or renovate long-standing churches. In 2006 Catholics were permitted to construct two rural churches in Vientiane Province. Catholic communities had existed in both villages for more than 10 years.\n\nIn June 2006 authorities permitted the Catholic Church to conduct an ordination in Vientiane Municipality along with the ordination of a deacon in Champassak Province. This marked the first Catholic ordinations in the country since 1975.\n\nThe ordination in Vientiane Municipality was initially scheduled to take place in late 2005 in Bolikhamsai Province; however, the Government blocked it. In December 2006 the Government allowed the ordination of three additional Catholic priests in Vientiane Municipality. Approval for the ordinations represented improvements over past restrictions.\n\nThe small Seventh-day Adventist Church, confined to a handful of congregations in Vientiane Municipality and Bolikhamsai, Bokeo, Champassak, Luang Prabang, and Xiengkhoug provinces, reported no significant Government interference in its activities in recent years, and its members appeared to be free to practice their faith.\n\nIn late 2006 the Baha'is were able, with assistance from the Lao Front for National Construction, to reclaim two pieces of property in Vientiane and Khammouane provinces that had been seized by the Government in 1975. In 2006 the Government officially approved land for the establishment of four new Baha'i centers, two in Vientiane Municipality, one in Vientiane Province, and one in Savannakhet Province. While the land approval has been granted, the Baha'i have not yet received all required paperwork from the District Land Offices and have not yet requested approval to begin construction of the new centers. Additionally, in June 2006 the Government gave official approval for Baha'is to use land where they already have a cemetery.\n\nBaha'i local spiritual assemblies and the National Spiritual Assembly routinely held Baha'i 19-day feasts and celebrated all holy days. The Baha'i National Spiritual Assembly in Vientiane met regularly and has sent delegations to the Universal House of Justice in Mount Carmel, in Haifa, Israel. Visitors from sister congregations in Malaysia have visited the Baha'i Center in Vientiane.\n\nFor the most part, the various religious communities coexist amicably. Society places importance on harmonious relations, and the dominant Buddhist faith generally is tolerant of other religious practices. There has been no ecumenical movement to date. Local cultural mores generally instilled respect for longstanding, well-known differences in belief. However, interreligious tensions arose on rare occasions within some minority ethnic groups, particularly in response to proselytizing or disagreements over rights to village resources. Efforts of some congregations to establish churches independent of the LEC or associated with denominations based abroad led to some tensions within the Protestant community. Frictions also have arisen over the refusal of some members of minority religious groups, particularly Protestants, to participate in Buddhist or animist religious ceremonies.\n\nIn December 2005 an LEC pastor, Mr. Aroun Varaphong, was killed in Bolikhamsai Province after preaching at a pre-Christmas service. There is no evidence that a serious investigation into his killing was ever conducted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1599757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1599757", "title": "Greg Puciato", "text": "Greg Puciato\n\nGregory John Puciato (born March 27, 1980) is best known as the lead singer of the disbanded The Dillinger Escape Plan and is currently the lead singer of The Black Queen and Killer Be Killed. He is noted for reckless live performances, wide vocal range, outspoken views, and controversy stemming from his bands' performances and interviews.\n\nIn the December 2007 issue of \"Revolver\" Puciato was voted one of the \"37 greatest metal frontmen\" of all time. In 2013 he was named number one by MetalSucks in their listing of \"top 25 modern metal frontmen\".\n\nGreg Puciato grew up in Baltimore, Maryland. The city was surrounded by poverty and African-American culture that \"had a giant influence on [him],\" both in the sense that he does not \"feel uncomfortable in any area\" and on his fondness for R&B and hip-hop. As a child, he became a fan of Guns N' Roses through MTV, which was the first band he was \"obsessed with.\" Around the age of nine, he saw Metallica's video for \"One\" which bridged him from hard rock to extreme metal music. During that period, Puciato started playing guitar, with \"Seek & Destroy\" being the first song that he learned how to play. He describes the following years as centered around thrash metal and Nintendo, and shortly afterward, the Bad Brains.\n\nAt fourteen, Puciato was in a thrash metal group, and they did not have a singer, which lead him to move to vocals because he was \"too much of a control freak to let someone else sing\" and could not do both at the same time, but he continued playing by himself. During that time, Puciato became a fan of funk metal bands including the Bad Brains, Faith No More, Primus and Living Colour. Pucaiato cites Mike Patton and H.R. as his biggest vocal inspirations when growing up, who \"opened my eyes a lot to what could be done with the voice overtop of heavy music.\"\n\nAlthough raised in a non-practicing home, Puciato attended a Catholic private school. He was a good student and skipped grades, graduating at the age of seventeen. Later, he studied for a year in Maryland and decided to take a break, during which he was invited to join The Dillinger Escape Plan.\n\nPuciato joined The Dillinger Escape Plan in September 2001 and first performed with the group weeks later at the \"CMJ music conference\" in October 2001.\n\nIn a scenario mirroring that of young Henry Rollins and Black Flag, Puciato started out as a fan of The Dillinger Escape Plan in their earlier days. When the band split with their singer Dimitri Minakakis (due to him wanting to focus more on Graphic Arts/Design), they searched publicly for a new singer by releasing the instrumental version of the song \"43% Burnt\" (off of their debut album). Puciato sent in a tape with one version of him mimicking Dimitri Minakakis and one with his own take on the song. He was contacted shortly after by the band, auditioned in person, and was subsequently asked to join. Coincidentally, the band's first release with Puciato was for a Black Flag tribute compilation, where they covered Damaged I and II. He has since sung on every subsequent release.\n\nIn August 2016 he told \"Metal Hammer\" magazine that the previously announced Dillinger \"hiatus\" was in fact a \"break up\" and explained the artistic reasoning for doing so.\n\nPuciato was also involved with Spylacopa, an experimental musical project headed by Candiria guitarist John LaMacchia (along with Julie Christmas of Made Out of Babies and Jeff Caxide of Isis). Spylacopa released a self-titled EP in 2008, with vocals, as well as some guitar and piano/programming, written by Puciato. Similar programming and piano playing would appear on The Dillinger Escape Plan's \"Option Paralysis\" album as the bonus track \"Chuck McChip\". Puciato confirmed in 2012 that Spylacopa is \"dead\".\n\nLater in February 2011, Max Cavalera, in an interview with Swedish magazine \"Metalshrine\", revealed that he and Greg were working on a full-length album, similar in style to Cavalera's Nailbomb project. The band, later named Killer Be Killed, was also announced to feature former Mars Volta drummer Dave Elitch, and Troy Sanders of Mastodon. In September 2013 the band recorded their self-titled debut album at Fortress Studio in Los Angeles with producer Josh Wilbur. It was released on May 13, 2014.\n\nHe announced in an interview with \"Revolver Magazine\" that he was involved in a new band with Josh Eustis and Nine Inch Nails/A Perfect Circle guitar tech Steven Alexander, called The Black Queen, with a release originally expected at some stage in 2014. The band posted their first song, \"The End Where We Start\", and an explanation for the long wait in June 2015. The debut album \"Fever Daydream\" was self-released on January 29, 2016, debuting at Number 2 on the Billboard Electronic chart.\n\nOn June 15, 2018, the band announced that a new album called \"Infinite Games\" would be released on September 28th, as well as the formation of a label named Federal Prisoner with frequent visual collaborator and fine artist Jesse Draxler. Puciato called the label \"as much an act of refusal as it is a statement of intent\", further elaborating in a blog post for Spotify that they would be \"giving more than we would be gaining\" by signing to an outside label, and that \"everything I used to see as help, I suddenly saw as unnecessary at best, and a liability at worst.\"\n\nPuciato sang all of the vocals on the five-song, self-titled EP of digital hardcore band Error (founded by future NIN-member Atticus Ross and Epitaph Records owner and Bad Religion founding guitarist Brett Gurewitz. His position was mainly considered as temporary studio work, since the band never played any concerts. Puciato confirmed in 2012 that Error is \"dead\".\n\nPuciato is furthermore a frequent collaborator, and guest on other shows. He lent his vocals to Genghis Tron's song \"The Feast\" on their 2008 release \"Board Up the House\".\n\nHe contributed a remix of the song \"Bad Fall\" on the 2009 Prong remix album \"Power of the Damn Mixxxer\". He features in A Static Lullaby's song \"The Pledge\" from their 2008 album \"Rattlesnake!\"\n\nHe and The Dillinger Escape Plan repeatedly joined the stage with Nine Inch Nails during their Wave Goodbye Tour in North America, and in Australia (both with The Dillinger Escape Plan, and solo, performing the songs \"Wish\" and \"Mr. Self Destruct\").\n\nHe contributed minor backup vocals on the song \"The Marvelous Slut\" on the Every Time I Die album \"New Junk Aesthetic\". In late November 2009 he appeared on stage during the two Deftones concerts at the Avalon Hollywood.\n\nHe sang the Deftones songs \"Passenger\" and \"Hexagram\", as well as the Metallica classic \"Battery\", all with Chino Moreno, as part of the Chi Cheng benefit show, and then later performed \"Passenger\" most nights on the 2011 Deftones/Dillinger Escape Plan North American tour.\n\nIn 2010 he appeared on and co-wrote (with Max Cavalera) the Soulfly track \"Rise of the Fallen\" on their record \"Omen\", and has on occasion performed the song live with them.\n\nHe also appears on the Architects track \"Year In/Year Out\" on their 2011 release \"The Here and Now\".\n\nIn February 2011 Puciato and Devin Townsend publicly decided to collaborate after both being Tweeted by a fan expressing interest in seeing them work together. The track ended up being called \"The Mighty Masturbator\" and was released as part of Townsend's \"Deconstruction\" album. Upon hearing the vocals, Townsend remarked \"Ladies and Gentlemen, Greg Puciato just tore me a new asshole. Fucking hell…AWESOME\".\n\nIn 2012 Puciato appeared as vocalist on Igor Cavalera's electronic duo Mixhell's track \"Exit Wound\".\n\nIn May 2014 Suicide Silence announced that Puciato had contributed guest vocals to a song called \"Monster Within\", on the album \"You Can't Stop Me\", their first album after the death of vocalist Mitch Lucker.\n\nIn January 2015 Puciato appeared as a murderer in the Retox video \"Let's Not Keep in Touch\", in which he chases and kills Retox guitar player Mike Crain with a baseball bat, before dumping him out of a van which Justin Pearson is driving.\n\nIn July 2015 Puciato appeared as a guest vocalist on the Lamb of God track \"Torches.\"\n\nIn December 2016 Puciato appeared as a \"shadow figure\" in the Drab Majesty video \"39 By Design\".\n\nPuciato wrote the foreword for Jesse Draxler's 2018 visual arts book \"Misophonia\". \n\nIn a 2013 interview, Puciato said that he does not \"have a filter\" on his statements, live performances and songs' lyrics, and in the past he thought that this \"was a plus\". For this reason, he claims that his social media had become a \"distraction\" and their original intention was distorted, which was to have a closer relationship with his fans, and that led him to close them all in early 2013, including Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. \n\nOn July 23, 2010, Puciato's death was faked by bandmates Ben Weinman and Liam Wilson, when they posted on their Twitter accounts that Puciato had passed in his sleep. Shortly after their Warped Tour set on July 23, Every Time I Die vocalist Keith Buckley tweeted, \"If Greg Puciato is dead, then his corpse just played a great set on mainstage today.\" debunking the rumors of Puciato's death.\n\nHe has been outwardly critical of both organized religion and mainstream politics, and of the relationship between the two, and has been consistently supportive of LGBT rights, criticizing homophobia in metal, releasing a shirt in support of LGBT rights with The Dillinger Escape Plan, and debuting a video from The Black Queen on \"Out\"'s magazine website.\n\nPuciato has been outspoken on his opinions about other musicians, especially during his tenure with The Dillinger Escape Plan, criticizing artists such as Puddle of Mudd, Fall Out Boy, and Jared Leto of Thirty Seconds to Mars, the latter whom he called a \"poser\".\n\nIn 2012, Puciato dated former pornographic actress Jenna Haze.\n\nIn an interview with \"The Independent\" in 2016, Puciato revealed that he has struggled with panic attacks and agoraphobia.\n\nIn 2017, he detailed his vocal writing and recording processes. He stated: \"I don't leave anything out of the realm of possibility when it comes to vocal style, as far as getting what I want. I'm more interested in capturing or amplifying the emotion of the song\". Puciato compared writing a song to a \"morphing straight line\", rather than a \"collection of parts\".\n\nDuring The Dillinger Escape Plan's 2002 performance at the Reading Festival in the United Kingdom, Puciato defecated onstage, put it into a bag, and threw it into the crowd before smearing the rest onto himself, proclaiming \"This is a bag of shit, I just wanted to show you this so you'll recognize it later on throughout the day\" referring to other bands that would appear that day of the festival, especially Puddle of Mudd. The act caused much controversy and had them on the verge of being banned in the UK.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7578994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7578994", "title": "Hubbard College of Administration International", "text": "Hubbard College of Administration International\n\nHubbard College of Administration International is an unaccredited school that teaches administration using methods developed by Church of Scientology founder, L. Ron Hubbard. The headquarters for the school is located at 320 North Vermont Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90004. The school began operations in 1990 and its current headquarters were established in 2001. It is a 501(c)(3) public charity, and as a religious organization does not file an annual return, however it states itself to be a \"secular educational institution\".\n\nStudents are not required to have a high school diploma to gain early admission and start taking courses at the school. Students are not required to take the ACT or SAT tests to gain admission. The school does have an application form that must be completed and submitted with a $150 fee. The school requests letters of recommendation and says it tests students for IQ, leadership qualities, and reading level. The admission process may also include interviews to determine an applicant's qualifications and desire to further his/her education.\n\nThe school grants a \"Specialized Associate Degree Program\" which it calls, \"Associate of Applied Science Degree of Management and Administration\". The school also offers \"Continuing Education Certificate Programs\". There also exist a number of \"Public Workshops and Corporate Programs\" which are short courses on specific topics. The school also provides WISE certificate programs; WISE being a Scientology-affiliated business group.\n\nHubbard College of Administration Is now in the process of being accredited.\n\nAs of October, 2006, the tuition for the \"degree program\" costs $30,179; books and supplies cost $2,643.28; the total cost is $32,852.28. Costs for the continuing education programs range from ~$3000 to ~$18,000. Costs of public workshops and corporate programs are ~$250. WISE certificate programs range from ~$6000 to $8000.\n\nThe school's website says that financial aid is available, however, since the school is not accredited, students are not eligible to participate in any federally-funded financial aid programs, such as Pell Grants, Perkins Loans, or any other government assisted loan programs.\n\nAs of January, 2015, the tuition for the \"degree program\" costs $52,000–books and supplies excluded.\n\nThe school teaches a method of business administration developed by L. Ron Hubbard. The school uses a teaching method called \"Study Technology\", also developed by Hubbard, as a method of teaching its students. The school does not have semesters or terms. Students can begin taking courses at any time of the year and they may attend either full-time or part-time.\n\n"}
{"id": "40026811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40026811", "title": "Huey Tecuilhuitl", "text": "Huey Tecuilhuitl\n\nHuey Tecuilhuitl also called Uey Tecuilhuitl is the name of the eighth month of the Aztec calendar. It is also a festival in the Aztec religion dedicated to Xilonen and Cihuacoatl. It is called the Great festival of the Lords.\n"}
{"id": "15839412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15839412", "title": "Illyrian mythology", "text": "Illyrian mythology\n\nIllyrian mythology is only known through mention of Illyrian deities on Roman period monuments, some with \"interpretatio Romana\". There appears to be no single most prominent Illyrian god and there would have been much variation between individual Illyrian tribes. The Illyrians did not develop a uniform cosmology on which to center their religious practices. \n\nSome deities are known exclusively from Istria, such as \"Eia\", \"Malesocus\", \"Boria\" and \"Iria\". In Liburnia, \"Anzotica\" is identified with Venus. Other local theonyms include \"Latra\", \"Sentona\" and \"Ica\". \"Bindus\", identified with Neptune, was worshipped among the Japodes. Further north, the hot springs of Topusko were dedicated to \"Vidasus\" and \"Thana\", identified with Silvanus and Diana. From the eastern Balkans, the cult of the Thracian horseman spread to Illyria during the early centuries CE. The god \"Medaurus\" mentioned in a dedication at Lambaesis in Africa by a Roman senator and native of Risinium appears to be identical to the horseman, being described as riding on horseback and carrying a lance. The Delmatae had \"Armatus\" as a god of war. The god \"En\" was also worshipped by Illyrians. \"En\" was demoted to demonic status following the arrival of Christianity in Illyria, and continues to be used in the Albanian language to refer to Thursday ().\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1019347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1019347", "title": "Indigenous church mission theory", "text": "Indigenous church mission theory\n\nIndigenous churches are churches suited to local culture and led by local Christians. There have been two main Protestant strategies proposed for the creation of indigenous churches:\n\n\nHenry Venn (Anglican, Church Missionary Society) (1796–1873) and Rufus Anderson (Congregationalist, American Board) (1796–1880) simultaneously developed a strategy of Indigenization in response to the extreme paternalism exercised by western missionaries of the early 19th century, particularly in Asia. They perceived that \"rice\" Christians were completely dependent on missionaries and loyal to the church only as long as they were receiving free food. In exchange, missionaries expected complete loyalty from the \"natives\" and resisted giving up authority and control. The system was thought to foster an unhealthy parent–child relationship between the missionaries and national believers.\n\nAnthony Norris Groves (1795–1853) attempted to avoid this problem in pioneer areas by guarding against any form of dependency from the start. He chose to represent no foreign denomination or missionary society, and he encouraged full co-operation between all Protestant missionaries for the encouragement of indigenous initiatives. He predated Roland Allen by eighty years as an advocate of Indigeneity rather than Indigenization. Looking directly to God for guidance and provision, he was a formative influence on Hudson Taylor and the \"faith mission\" movement, but the direct influence of his indigenous strategy is more evident in the remarkable movements associated with Bakht Singh in India and Watchman Nee in China.\nJohn Livingstone Nevius (1829–1893) served as a Presbyterian missionary to China in the late 1800s. After questioning the methods of western missionaries of his time, he wrote a book published in 1886, \"The Planting and Development of Missionary Churches\", which called for discarding old-style missions and the adoption of his new plan to foster an independent, self-supporting local church. He criticized the missionaries' practice of paying national workers out of mission funds, believing the healthy local church should be able to support its own local workers.\n\nHudson Taylor (1832–1905) was a Protestant missionary from England to China and founder of the China Inland Mission. He became disillusioned with other Protestant missionaries in China that lived in compounds and employed indigenous people as servants. Taylor subsequently learned local dialects, adopted local dress, and went up and down rivers in China preaching. He sought to distance himself from any paternal organizations or denominations in favour of \"faith missions\" which relied on the support of nationals and individuals. He also sought to train indigenous leaders to lead churches and mission stations in China, rather than have them run by foreigners.\n\nDixon Edward Hoste (1861–1946) succeeded Hudson Taylor as director of the China Inland Mission. Hoste is credited with making the Chinese churches apply the three-self principle of self-government, self-support, and self-propagation. This threefold motto was later adopted by the Three-Self Patriotic Movement after missionaries were expelled from China.\n\nRoland Allen (1868–1947) also attempted to apply indigenous church principles to the missions of his day. After serving as an Anglican missionary in China from 1895 to 1903, he returned to England and spent 40 years writing about missions principles. Two of his books, \"Missionary Methods: St. Paul's or Ours?\" (1912) and \"The Spontaneous Expansion of the Church: And Causes that Hinder It,\" are still in print.\n\nAlice Luce (1873–1955), first an Anglican missionary in India, and subsequently an Assemblies of God missionary among Hispanics along the US–Mexico border, was influenced by Allen's theory of missions and in 1921 she wrote a series of articles, \"Paul's Missionary Methods\", for the \"Pentecostal Evangel\". Due to her advocacy, indigenous church principles became normative for Assemblies of God missions during the early part of the 20th century.\n\nNicolás Zamora (1875–1914) founded on 28 February 1909 the first Indigenous Evangelical Church in the Philippines. Behind the founding of the IEMELIF, nationalist and subsequent independence movements. Filipinos wanted full autonomy, including in the realm of religion, as the 333 years of Spanish rule were marked by the Catholic Church's control over both temporal and spiritual affairs. His vision and motivation was faith in God's providence, and belief that the Filipino was capable of erecting a self-sustaining, autonomous, and self-propagating evangelical church. In 1903, he was assigned to be a pastor at Knox Memorial Church becoming the first Filipino Protestant pastor. Zamora took up law at the University of Santo Tomas where he honed his skills in debate and oration, then entered a seminary in Shanghai.\n\nJohn Wesley Haley (1878–1951), Free Methodist Church in Canada missionary to South Africa 1902–1909, 1917–1934, and Ruanda-Urundi 1934–1946. Haley left South Africa after several decades of ministry disillusioned with traditional mission practice and initiated new ministry in Burundi following the indigenous mission approach, involving Burundian converts in the leadership, decision-making process \"from the beginning\". He felt a special kinship with the work of Nevius and Allen, despite limited understanding from his mission board.\n\nMelvin Hodges (1909–1988), an Assemblies of God missionary to Nicaragua, again popularized the idea in the 1950s with his book, \"On the Mission Field: The Indigenous Church.\" He defined the indigenous church as \"a native church ... which shares the life of the country in which it is planted and finds itself ready to govern itself, support itself, and reproduce itself.\" Hodges believed that foreign money creates dependence and establishes paternalistic patterns within mission movements, leading to an unhealthy, anemic church. His experience as a missionary no doubt influenced his presentation of the three-self principle. He emphasized the need for flexibility and tailoring the principles to fit the need of the local believers.\n\nIn his book \"Transforming Mission\", David Bosch (1929–1992), a missiologist, echoed Paul G. Hiebert's suggestion that a \"fourth\" \"self\" needed to be added to the Venn–Anderson framework: \"self-theologizing\". Though much self-theologizing had already taken place in mission churches, much of it has been left unnoticed or considered syncretistic. Bosch suggested that in order to not fall into the two extremes of syncretism or \"Babylonian captivity\", self-theologizing must be in dialogue with the universal invisible church. Only then would a truly indigenous church exist.\n\n"}
{"id": "46283160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46283160", "title": "Islamic Research and Educational Academy", "text": "Islamic Research and Educational Academy\n\nThe Islamic Research and Educational Academy (IREA) is an independent Islamic dawah organisation based in Hoppers Crossing, Victoria. It has been categorised as 'extremist' by some groups. It is Sunni-based and says, \"We use religion to unite, where others may seek to use it to divide\". It is led by Waseem Razvi.\n\nThe founding President of IREA, Waseem Razvi was born in 1981 and brought up in Saudi Arabia by parents of Indian origin. In 2004, he moved to Australia for higher studies. He obtained a master's degree in information systems from the Melbourne Institute of Technology in 2007. He quit from his job in 2010 to engage fully in Dawah works.\n\nRazvi has been quoted as describing Australia, \"As the largest multicultural country in the world, Australia accommodates people from around 200 nationalities. It is an open migrant country that embraces people of all cultures and religions with open hands and hearts\" and that \"Australian society gives followers of different faiths every opportunity to propagate their religion peacefully.\" \"I am delivering sermons in certain churches in which I try to present the true picture of Islam as well as to remove misgivings, with a focus on major similarities and commonalities of Islam and Christianity.”\n\nRazvi has met with Egyptian Sheikh Yusuf al-Qaradawi in Qatar, who has said he supports IREA's dawah.\n\nRazvi has travelled to Saudi Arabia and Qatar to raise funds and to lecture. He said in Saudi Arabia that there is a group in Australia, Q Society , founded by Christian and Jewish zealots, with the slogan, 'Muslims should be kicked out of Australia.'\n\nRazvi is a supporter of the late Islamic preacher, Ahmed Deedat, whose books have been banned from sale in France for being, \"violently anti-Western, anti-Semitic and inciting to racial hate.\"\n\nIREA runs \"Australian Islamic Peace Conferences\" (AIPC) which the ABC News has reported as a \"controversial event\".\n\nRazvi has described the three main goals of the \"Australian Islamic Peace Conferences\" was to, \"achieving unity among Muslims, build bridges of understanding between Muslims and Australian community, and open a door of communications for Muslims with the authorities. Organization of AIPC was a culmination of my endeavors to achieve these goals and it was a very successful one.\"\n\nThe advertised main speaker for the 2013 Peace Conference was Abdul Rahman Al-Sudais who, \"has called for violent jihad\" and is alleged to have made Antisemitic remarks. Prior to the conference Al-Sudais was denied a visa to enter Australia. Speaking at the 2013 conference was Abu Hamza who has been accused of telling men, \"how to beat their wives\".\n\nFor the 2013 Peace Conference, held at the Melbourne Showgrounds, Christians from various churches initially had approval to hire a stall to give away Bibles. The approval was subsequently withdrawn. The explanation given was, \"because it would be unsafe\".\n\nOne of IREA's conferences was banned by the Melbourne University because it required gender segregation of the audience.\n\nAt the 2015 conference, a young boy impersonated Islamic tele-evangelist Zakir Naik (Razvi's role model) who is banned in Britain and the conference keynote speaker Hussein Yee has implied that the Jews were behind the 2001 World Trade Centre attack.\n\nThe March 2017 conference is entitled, \"Quran The book that shook the world\". Speakers include Shady Alsuleiman and Keysar Trad. In the promotional flyers, the three females have their faces replaced with black ink, while the faces of all other 12 male speakers are displayed. With organisers saying it was done to protect the women from being, \"targeted in the streets.\" Subsequently, one of the female speakers, Monique Toohey pulled out after seeing her face blacked out, saying, \"I didn't feel like it aligned with my values, and certainly not in a way that I choose to represent myself publicly\".\n\nThe \"Council for the Prevention of Islamophobia Inc\" is co-located with IREA. Razvi is the secretary of the organisation. Its purpose is to, \"to protect and defend the Muslim community from discrimination based on their Islamic faith and/or race by multiple means\". \n\nAn Australian speaking tour by the Dutch-American activist and author Ayaan Hirsi Ali, was proposed for April 2017. The \"Council for the Prevention of Islamophobia\" said there would be 5,000 protesters outside the Festival Hall in Melbourne if she was to speak at that venue, because, \"she is an extremist who condones violence and radicalises people.\" Her Australian tour was cancelled.\n\nWaseem Razvi and the IREA have been involved in proposals for mosques in the Melbourne suburbs of Craigieburn, Melton and the City of Casey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8782708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8782708", "title": "Jan Groenveld", "text": "Jan Groenveld\n\nJan Groenveld (1945 – 22 October 2002) was a member of the LDS Church and the Jehovah's Witnesses. She spent fifteen years in these and other organisations before leaving them in 1975 and resolving to make more information about what she saw as \"cults\" available to the general public.\n\nGroenveld first began providing information about groups she referred to as cults to the public and counselling affected individuals in 1979. In 1980, she founded the \"Freedom in Christ\" ministry, whose purpose was to counsel former members of controversial groups, and provide information about coercive religious sects.\n\nJan founded the Cult Awareness and Information Centre (CAIC), in 1990. Groenveld's CAIC website was started in 1991.\n\nGroenveld first met Steven Hassan in 1993, when she brought him to Brisbane, Australia from the United States for a seminar. Hassan educated Groenveld as to the \"serious potential for doubt and lack of veracity in satanic ritual abuse stories\".\n\nIn 1999 a Brisbane tabloid, the Sunday Mail interviewed Groenveld on the likelihood that more destructive cults would show up in Australia during 1999 before the new Millennium. The publication titled Groenveld a \"cult specialist\" two other Australian publications, the Courier Mail, a Brisbane tabloid, and The Mercury a tabloid in Hobart titled her a \"cult expert.\" She warned the publication about a cult called the Twelve Tribes Mission, believing them to possess militant tendencies. She warned: \"There are people out there all over the place who would like to be another Jim Jones\", referring to the Peoples Temple suicides.\n\nGroenveld's work has also been cited in Snow's \"Deadly Cults: The Crimes of True Believers\".\n\nJan Groenveld died in October 2002, and was survived by her husband, 3 sons, 2 daughters and 2 foster daughters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17984818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17984818", "title": "Kurt Weiland", "text": "Kurt Weiland\n\nKurt Weiland is a native of Austria and an executive in the Church of Scientology International. He is director of external affairs for the Church of Scientology's Office of Special Affairs, and Scientology's vice president of communications. He is a member of the organization's board of directors, and handles government, legal and public affairs for Scientology. He has often represented Scientology to the press as a media spokesman. Weiland works out of the Church of Scientology's offices in Los Angeles, California.\n\nIn 1984 Weiland was a member of the Church of Scientology's Religious Technology Center, and performed work for the organization in Santa Barbara, California. Weiland was executive director of Scientology's Office of Special Affairs in 1994, and was responsible for its international legal affairs and public relations. In December 1994 he prevented Richard Leiby, a reporter for \"The Washington Post\", from attending a luncheon at the National Press Club sponsored by the Church of Scientology International. Weiland did not allow Leiby to enter the First Amendment Lounge, and told him: \"You seem to make a living by writing falsehoods.\" \"We know that you used to work in Clearwater, and we know exactly what you wrote,\" Weiland said to Leiby.\n\nIn an interview at the National Press Club in 1994, the \"St. Petersburg Times\" asked Weiland and Scientology President Heber Jentzsch about the Church of Scientology's practice of investigating reporters who write about Scientology. \"First of all, we don't do that. There's no institutional or organized campaign or effort or action ongoing to go after a reporter,\" lied Weiland. When asked about a discrepancy after Church of Scientology officials confirmed in 1998 that their attorneys had hired a firm to investigate a reporter for the \"Boston Herald\", Weiland said: \"It's not a personal thing. Every time a reporter steps out of his way to create damage to the church ... then, of course, it's gloves off.\" He said that the \"Boston Herald\" reporter's articles were inaccurate, and the Church of Scientology decided to investigate the individual in order to determine what \"vested interest\" he was working for and what \"sinister motive\" he had.\n\nWeiland was the Deputy Commanding Officer of the Office of Special Affairs in 1995, and served on the board of directors of the Church of Scientology International. In 1996 he was director of the Office of Special Affairs, and in 1997 Weiland managed external affairs for the Church of Scientology.\n\nOn June 13, 2003, Weiland accompanied actor and Scientologist Tom Cruise and director of the Church of Scientology's Los Angeles Celebrity Centre, Tommy Davis, to meet with then-United States Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage. In the half-hour-long private meeting, they raised concerns with Armitage about the treatment of Scientologists in Germany and other countries.\n\nIn 2006, Weiland was listed on a \"Senior Honor Roll\" in \"Impact\", the magazine of the International Association of Scientologists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29649358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29649358", "title": "Liberal Anglo-Catholicism", "text": "Liberal Anglo-Catholicism\n\nThe terms liberal Anglo-Catholicism and liberal Anglo-Catholic refer to people, beliefs and practices within Anglicanism that affirm liberal Christian perspectives while maintaining the traditions culturally associated with Anglo-Catholicism. The word \"liberal\" in this context refers to both theological and social liberalism.\n\nThe social liberalism of liberal Anglo-Catholics can be seen in an association with Christian socialism. With regard to Christian socialism, Frederick Denison Maurice in 1849 said, \"I seriously believe that Christianity is the only foundation of Socialism, and that a true Socialism is the necessary result of a sound Christianity.\" Generally, liberal Anglo-Catholics will be social justice–minded. Jonathan Daniels, a seminarian of the Episcopal Church in the United States who died during the civil rights movement, is a modern martyr for liberal Anglo-Catholics.\n\nLiberal Anglo-Catholics allow modern knowledge and research to inform their use of reason. Science and religion, for instance, are held to be legitimate and different methodologies of revealing God's truth. This also directly affects the liberal Anglo-Catholic's reading of scripture, ecclesiastical history, and general methodology of theology. A metaphor is that theology for liberal Anglo-Catholics is a \"dance\" that allows people to slowly grow in an understanding of God.\n\nIn the UK the Affirming Catholicism movement is a home to many liberal Anglo-Catholics. Examples of liberal Anglo-Catholics include the former Archbishops of Canterbury Rowan Williams and Michael Ramsey. Westcott House, Cambridge, is a Church of England theological college in the tradition of liberal Anglo-Catholicism.\n\n"}
{"id": "5508843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5508843", "title": "List of Shia books", "text": "List of Shia books\n\n\n\n\n\nThese books include discussions about Theology (Tawḥīd, Nubuwwah, Imamah, etc. ) of Shi'a.\n\nThese books seek to give a rational account of Shi'a theology in contrast with the Ash'ari, Mu'tazili and other theological schools of Islam. The contents of these books are taken from the 8th to the 13th century (2nd to 7th century of Islam).\n\nThese books seek to give a rational account of Shi'a theology in contrast with modern Western ideologies including Marxism and Liberalism during the 20th century.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAcademic sources:\n\nOnline Shi'a references:\n"}
{"id": "27490004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27490004", "title": "List of ancient Greek and Roman monoliths", "text": "List of ancient Greek and Roman monoliths\n\nThis is a list of ancient monoliths found in all types of Greek and Roman buildings.\n\nIt contains monoliths\n\nTransporting was done by land or water (or a combination of both), in the later case often by special-built ships such as obelisk carriers. For lifting operations, ancient cranes were employed since ca. 515 BC, such as in the construction of Trajan's Column.\n\nIt should be stressed that all numbers are estimations since only in the rarest cases have monoliths been actually weighed. Rather, weight is calculated by multiplying volume by density. The main source, J. J. Coulton, assumes 2.75 t/m³ for marble and 2.25 t/m³ for other stone. For an explanation of the large margin of error, which often leads to widely differing numbers, see these introductory remarks.\n\nBelow a selection of Greek monoliths sorted by their date.\n\nBelow a selection of Roman monoliths sorted by their date; the list also includes work on Greek temples which was continued into the Roman era.\n\n</div>\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18437569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18437569", "title": "List of area seventies of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints", "text": "List of area seventies of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints\n\nAt the April 1995 general conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), church president Gordon B. Hinckley announced the creation of a new leadership position known as the area authority. In 1997, area authorities were renamed area authority seventies and ordained to the office of seventy. The church announced that these seventies would become members of a Quorum of the Seventy based upon the geographic region to which they were assigned. Later, the title \"area authority seventy\" was shortened to area seventy, which is the title currently in use.\n\nWhen area authority seventies were first called in 1997, the Third, Fourth, and Fifth Quorums were created. At that time, the Third Quorum consisted of those seventies living in the church's Europe, Africa, Asia, Australia, and Pacific areas. The Fourth Quorum comprised those living in the Mexico, Central America, and South America areas. The Fifth Quorum of the Seventy comprised those living in the United States and Canada\n\nIn July 2004, the Sixth Quorum of the Seventy was organized from the Fifth Quorum because the number of quorum members exceeded 70, the number of members prescribed by scripture. The Fifth Quorum then comprised area seventies serving in the church's North America Northwest, North America West, Idaho, Utah North, Utah Salt Lake City, and Utah South areas, while the Sixth Quorum comprised those living in the North America Central, North America East, North America Northeast, North America Southeast, and North America Southwest areas.\n\nIn July 2005, the church announced that, due to the great distance members of the Third and Fourth Quorums of the Seventy had to travel to meet as quorums, the Seventh and Eighth Quorums of the Seventy would be created. The Third Quorum included those area seventies living in the church's Africa Southeast, Africa West, Europe Central, Europe East, and Europe West areas. The Fourth Quorum included those members living in the Brazil North, Brazil South, Chile, and South America South areas. The Fourth Quorum included those living in the Central America, Mexico North, Mexico South, South America North, and South America West areas.\n\nIn the intervening years, along with the changes announced in quorum composition, the church's geographic areas were consolidated and realigned. Now each quorum is composed of area seventies in the following areas:\n\nBelow is a list of the 241 currently serving area seventies, as of October 2015.\n"}
{"id": "35080836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35080836", "title": "List of converts to Christianity from paganism", "text": "List of converts to Christianity from paganism\n\nThis is a list of notable converts to Christianity from pagan religions. Paganism is a term which, from a Western perspective, has come to connote a broad set of spiritual or cultic practices or beliefs of any folk religion, and of historical and contemporary polytheistic religions in particular.\n\nWhile the term has historically been used to denote adherents of any non-Abrahamic faith, for the purposes of this list, only adherents of non-major polytheistic, shamanistic, pantheistic, or animistic religions will be listed in this section.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5797157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5797157", "title": "List of encyclicals of Pope Pius XI", "text": "List of encyclicals of Pope Pius XI\n\nThis article contains a list of encyclicals of Pope Pius XI. Pius XI issued 31 papal encyclicals during his reign as pope and was considering one at his death.\n\nAt the time of his death, Pius XI was reviewing an early version of an additional encyclical, \"Humani generis unitas\" (On the Unity of the Human Race), on the Church, anti-Semitism, racism and persecution of Jews.\n"}
{"id": "1587235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1587235", "title": "Mbwiri", "text": "Mbwiri\n\nMbwiri is a Central African demon who is said to possess people. Those he possesses would usually be diagnosed with epilepsy by a doctor.\n\nWhen such a possession occurs, the shaman is called. A hut is built in which the afflicted resides along with the shaman and his assistants until he is cured. For ten days or a fortnight these people eat and drink at the expense of the patient's relatives, and dance to the music of flute and drum. Mbwiri is said to abhor good living, and this is the best way to drive him out. The patient will be the only one who knows that he is possessed. The patient also dances until the epileptic fits come on. When he is pronounced cured, he builds a little fetish house, and thenceforth avoids certain kinds of food and performs certain duties. Sometimes, however, the process appears to result in madness, and some patients run away into the bush.\n\n"}
{"id": "39890329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39890329", "title": "Nicky Imber", "text": "Nicky Imber\n\nNicky Imber (Vienna 1920 -1996) was a multidisciplinary Jewish artist best known for his sculptures on Jewish themes. Grand nephew of Naftali Herz Imber, author of the Israeli national anthem 'Hatikva'.\nAfter escaping the Nazi concentration camp in Dachau, he pledged to dedicate his art to perpetuating the memory of the Holocaust. Among his more famous works are \"The Hope\" and \"The Love of Torah\". His work can be seen around the world, in Northern Israel, the United States, and the Venezuelan Museum of Natural History in Caracas.\n\nNicky Imber was born in Vienna, Austria. During his studies at the Academy of Arts in Vienna, he drew anti-Nazi caricatures for Jewish student publications. After several thwarted attempts by the family to leave Vienna, in 1938, in the wake of the 'Anschluss', Imber was deported to Dachau. Witnessing the murders of family and friends, he plotted his escape. Using skills he had learned in art school, he made a face mask out of bread and sand, stole a Nazi soldier's uniform and walked out the front gate unnoticed. In 1940, he boarded a ship headed to Haifa. The ship's passengers were refused entry by the British mandatory authorities and imprisoned in a detention camp in Mauritius.\n\nIn 1943, Imber worked out a deal with the authorities for his release by joining the British Army, serving as a war artist and a dental assistant in East Africa. After the war, he opened an art school in Nairobi, Kenya, and worked as a photographer and a safari guide.\n\nIn 1949 to 1954, he lived in Venezuela, where he was contracted to do an East African Diorama series. The National Museum added an entire wing to display it.During this period he got married and had a daughter Raquel, who accompanied and assisted him.\nIn 1959, Imber was commissioned to create sculptures and dioramas for the Haifa Prehistory Museum at Gan Ha-em in Haifa, Israel. In 1960 he returned to Venezuela to restaured the Phelps series of Dioramas for the Museum in Caracas.\n\nBetween 1961 and 1971 he travelled extensively around Europe and after establishing an international name for himself, returned to the United States. In New York he became famous for his realistic oil paintings of portraits of Aga Khan, Tyrone Power, Ava Gardner, David Ben-Gurion, Golda Meir, Sir Richard Burton and Simon Bolivar.\n\nReturning to Venezuela in 1976, Imber created huge sculptures of prehistoric animals, forming one of the world's largest historical animal parks. During this period he also created realistic sculptures of famous Venezuelans for the country's National Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 1978, Imber spent three years designing and building a Holocaust memorial park at the entrance to the city of Karmiel located in the Galilee, entitled 'From Holocaust to Resurrection.' Imber also established animal theme playgrounds around the city. \n\nIn the 1980s, Imber established residence in Karmiel, Israel. In Israel he was inspired to create highly emotional, life like collections.\n\nNicky Imber died in 1996 in Vienna, Austria.\n\n"}
{"id": "10981604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10981604", "title": "Poju Zabludowicz", "text": "Poju Zabludowicz\n\nChaim \"Poju\" Zabludowicz (born 6 April 1953) is a Finnish-born British business magnate, investor, art collector and philanthropist.\n\nThe \"Sunday Times Rich List 2018\" of the wealthiest people in the United Kingdom ranked him 90th with a personal net worth of £1,500 million.\n\nZabludowicz was born in Helsinki, the son of arms industry businessman Shlomo Zabludowicz, and raised in Tampere, where he attended \"Svenska Samskolan i Tammerfors\", the Swedish-speaking school in the city. He graduated with a degree in Economics and Political Science from Tel Aviv University and later worked at BFG Bank AG in Frankfurt. He is married to UK-born Anita Zabludowicz. His father, Shlomo, built the family business around Soltam, an Israeli defence contractor.\n\nIn 1978, Zabludowicz was appointed a Director of Tamares, the family's holding company, and has headed the company since 1990. Tamares invests in a number of different private and public companies, and in real estate properties. The company owns 40% of the land in downtown Las Vegas. Today, Tamares Group holds a $3 billion portfolio. Its real estate holdings encompass 2.3 million square feet of office space.\n\nIn 1993, Zabludowicz set up Ivory Gate, a property investment company based in London. Using offshore vehicles, Ivory Gate made investments in UK commercial property.\n\nIn 2006, Zabludowicz established and was the chairman of the Advisory Board of Auctor Capital Partners, a corporate finance and advisory house for hedge funds. He has been the Chairman of the Advisory Board of Synova Capital from 2007 to 2014, a private equity fund specialising in investments in UK growth companies, and Chairman of Tamares Telecom since 2011, a privately held service provider that operates and markets communications services based on a new internationally deployed fibre-optic network.\n\nZabludowicz has been a Director of Mustavaaran Kaivos since 2011, a company that owns the mineral rights to the Mustavaara vanadium/iron/titanium deposit in northeastern Finland, and has been a Director and Member of the Human Capital Committee of Outotec from March 2012 until March 2017, a company that provides technologies and services for the metal and mineral processing industries.\n\nZabludowicz has served as a member on a number of boards, including the European Advisory Board of Citigroup, the board of directors of GEMS (an Asia Pacific private equity fund), and Stratos Ventures (an early stage venture capital firm with a focus on information and communication technology sectors).\n\nZabludowicz is the owner of the Finnish ice hockey team Tappara.\n\nIn June 2016, it was announced that ARTA, a fine art shipping startup based in New York, has raised $1 million in capital from a group of institutional and strategic investors, among them Poju and Anita Zabludowicz.\n\nZabludowicz is the founder and former Chairman of BICOM, the Britain Israel Communications and Research Centre, an organisation founded in 2001 which lobbies the UK government on behalf of Israel. He is reported to have given the pressure group more than £2 million in three years. He is a benefactor of the UJIA (United Jewish Israel Appeal), and was a Member of the Advisory Boards of CST (Community Security Trust) and UJIA, and a Trustee of Jewish Leadership Council.\n\nZabludowicz has given donations to David Cameron's leadership campaign and to the Conservative Party. According to Electoral Commission records, the Tamares Group provided £15,000 for Cameron’s leadership campaign in 2005 and has donated £55,000 to Conservative funds in 2006 and 2007, and £131,805 in 2010. To date, Zabludowicz has donated a total of £380,000 to the Conservative Party.\n\nHe has also donated €8,000 to Alexander Stubb's election campaign in 2014.\n\nThe \"Zabludowicz Center for Autoimmune Diseases\" opened in Sheba Medical Center through Poju and Anita Zabludowicz's donations. The center centralises under one roof all aspects of autoimmune research and treatment, and brings together physicians and researchers from multidisciplinary fields such as internal medicine, clinical immunology, autoimmunity, rheumatology, ophthalmology, neurology, obstetrics and gynaecology.\n\nPoju and Anita Zabludowicz have been involved in a large number of activities, from sponsoring of exhibitions and art fairs, to organising various fundraising events. In 2014, they have donated funds towards the realisation of the planned Helsinki Guggenheim.\n\nZabludowicz has donated between $100,000-250,000 to the Clinton Foundation.\n\nZabludowicz has been a patron of the Finnish British Chamber of Commerce since 2011.\n\nSince the 1990s, Poju and Anita Zabludowicz have been accumulating a 500-artist, 5,000-piece collection of artwork. They exhibit their private art collection at three different locations, one of them being \"176\", a gallery in a former 19th-century Methodist chapel in Chalk Farm, north London. Inaugurated in 2007, the Zabludowicz Collection's London project space presents exhibitions of collection works and new commissions by artists linked to the collection. One sculpture in the collection, a miniature statue of Jesus with an erection, surrounded by 50 other sculptures also with erections, has been considered \"grotesquely offensive\" by some Christians, one of whom has said she will bring a private prosecution against the Baltic Centre for Contemporary Art in Gateshead, which has exhibited the statue.\n\n1500 Broadway houses a selection of works from the Zabludowicz Collection. The programme at 1500 consists of temporary exhibitions and events whilst the lobby is open to the public during office hours.\n\nAcross three locations on Sarvisalo, an island in Loviisa, Finland, the Zabludowicz Collection has initiated an international residency programme for invited artists. The residency programme offers an environment for the production of art.\n\nIn November 2015, it was announced that the Zabludowicz Collection will launch an artist residency programme in Las Vegas.\n\nSome art magazines and websites have listed Poju and Anita Zabludowicz in their annual rankings:\n\n\nZabludowicz has served as the Founder and Trustee of the Zabludowicz Collection since 1994, Council Member of Tate Modern International (since 1999), Member of the Board of Kiasma (since 2009), Founding Patron of Camden Arts Centre, and Co-Chairman of British Friends of the Art Museums of Israel (BFAMI).\n\nAccording to \"The Jewish Chronicle\", Zabludowicz hosted secret talks at his London home in March 2011 between Israeli President Shimon Peres and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas.\n\nZabludowicz claimed in October 2011 that he was tricked into funding the lavish lifestyle and globetrotting of former UK Defence Secretary Liam Fox and Fox's adviser Adam Werritty.\n\nZabludowicz was called to the High Court in November 2013 as witness in Scot Young's divorce case.\n\nIn February 2017, it was reported that Israel Police are investigating whether Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu received gifts or other benefits from Zabludowicz as part of a corruption investigation against the prime minister.\n\nZabludowicz and his family reside mainly on The Bishops Avenue in Hampstead, a street in London referred to as Billionaire's Row, and have homes in Caesarea, Tel Aviv, and Sarvisalo, a small island in Finland. They purchased the house on The Bishops Avenue in 1989, and later purchased the adjacent house in 1997. The £60 million pair of \"his and hers\" mansions have an adjoining art gallery. They also own a 120-ft yacht. In January 2017, it was revealed that Zabludowicz has purchased a ₪25 million home in Neve Tzedek, a neighborhood of Tel Aviv. This purchase was listed as the 11th most expensive real estate deal in Israel in 2016.\n\nIn 2008, Zabludowicz was listed at number 30 in the \"Jewish Chronicle Top 100\", a \"list of those who wield the greatest influence on British Jewry.\" In 2014, he was listed at number 75.\n\nIn 2015, in its annual ranking of the wealthiest people in Israel, \"Forbes Israel\" ranked Zabludowicz 13th with a personal net worth of ₪8.7 billion. He was also ranked 37th on \"The Estates Gazette Rich List\", a comprehensive guide to the wealth of those involved in the UK’s property market, compiled by the authors of \"The Sunday Times Rich List\".\n\nIn 2015, Anita Zabludowicz, received an OBE for her services to the arts.\n\nIn 2017, Poju and Anita Zabludowicz were ranked the 9th richest couple in Britain.\n\n"}
{"id": "34595837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34595837", "title": "Pratima (Jainism)", "text": "Pratima (Jainism)\n\nIn Jainism, Pratima () is a step or a stage marking the spiritual rise of a lay person (\"shravak\"). There are eleven such steps called \"pratima\". After having passed the eleven steps, one is no longer a \"sravaka\", but a \"muni\" (monk).\n\nRules prescribed for laymen are divided into twelve \"vrata\" (vows) and eleven \"pratimas\" (steps) and are described in several codes of conduct (\"shravakacharas\").\n\nThe \"pratimas\" are mentioned in several ancient texts like Ratnakaranda Shravakachara (2nd century A.D.).\n\nThe twelve vows are:\n\nThe eleven stages (\"pratima\") are:\n\nAshadhara in his Sagara-Dharmammrata (13th century) has groups the 11 steps into three ranks.\n\n\nThose who have ascended to the eleventh pratima are termed Kshullaka (with two articles of clothing) and Ailaka (with only one piece of cloth) in the Digambara tradition. The eleventh pratima is termed Shramanabhuta Pratima (being almost like a Shramana) in the Svetambara tradition. The next step is that of a full Jain Muni.\n\n"}
{"id": "3294414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3294414", "title": "Protector (title)", "text": "Protector (title)\n\nProtector, sometimes spelled protecter, is used as a title or part of various historical titles of heads of state and others in authority. The word literally means \"one who protects\".\n\n\"Wakil ar-Ra`aya\" (rendered as Protector of the People) was the (or a?) title of the Persian imperial Monarch under the Zand dynasty - those rulers refused (except the last as noted) the style Shahanshah. The founding ruler adopted the style; it appears that his successors used the same style, although documentation is obscure\n\n\n\n\n\nThe self-styled Emperor Norton I of the United States included among his titles \"Protector of Mexico.\"\n\n\nSince the thirteenth century it has been customary at Rome to confide to some particular Cardinal a special solicitude in the Roman Curia for the interests of a given religious order or institute, confraternity, church, college, city, nation, etc. Such a person is known as a \"Cardinal Protector\".\n\nThe title \"Hâdim ül Haramain ish Sharifain\" or \"Khādim al-Ḥaramayn al-Sharifayn\", Arabic/Turkish for 'Servant of the Noble Sanctuaries', notably Mecca and Medina (the destinations of the hajj pilgrimage; both in the Grand Sherif's peninsular Arabian territory; the third being Jerusalem, part of an Ottoman province) was awarded to Ottoman Sultan Salim Khan I by the Sherif of Mecca in 1517, a year after his conquest of Egypt and assuming of the title of Commander of the Faithful, and Successor of the Prophet of the Lord of the Universe, i.e. Caliph; both remained part of the full style of his successors on the Turkish throne.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22845598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22845598", "title": "Raphael Ankawa", "text": "Raphael Ankawa\n\nRaphael Ben Mordechai Ankawa, also spelled Ankavah or Encouau, (1848–1935) was the Chief Rabbi of Morocco and a noted commentator, talmudist, \"posek\", and author.\n\nBorn in Salé, Morocco in 1848, he is known to the Jews of North Africa as \"Malach Raphael\" or the Angel Raphael. In 1880, he became President of the Rabbinical Court or \"Beit Din\" in Sale and founded a \"yeshiva\" there. In 1918, he was appointed the first President of the High Rabbinical Court of Rabat, Morocco. He published numerous works on jurisprudence, including \"Karne Reem\" (Jerusalem 1910), \"Hadad Vetema\" (Jerusalem 1978), \"Paamone Zahav\" (Jerusalem 1912), and \"Paamon Ve-Rimon\" (Jerusalem 1967); some of them continue to be regarded as authoritative.\n\nHis funeral, on 3 August 1935, was visited by over 50,000 followers. His grave became a place of Jewish pilgrimage. Rabbi Ankawa is survived by hundreds of descendants today, mostly in Israel, France, Venezuela and the United States. Leading Halachic rabbis refer to his books as sources for contemporary Jewish legal works.\n\n"}
{"id": "13169286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13169286", "title": "Ring (novel series)", "text": "Ring (novel series)\n\nRing (リング Ringu) is a series of horror novels written by Koji Suzuki. The novels were initially a trilogy, consisting of \"Ring\", \"Spiral\", and \"Loop.\" A short story collection called \"Birthday\" was released shortly after, introducing extra stories interconnecting the trilogy. Two further books, \"S\" and \"Tide\", were published in 2012 and 2013 respectively.\n\nThe novels revolve around a curse, embodied within a videotape, unleashed by Sadako Yamamura, the ghost of a psychic who was raped and murdered before being thrown into a well. Though the curse was initially presented as a supernatural force, it is eventually revealed to be a cataclysmic virus which Sadako utilizes for her own misanthropic ends.\n\nThe success of the novels led to the release of numerous film adaptations in Japan, South Korea, and the United States of America.\n\nThis story is set in present-day Tokyo. When four teenagers mysteriously die one night at the same time, Kazuyuki Asakawa, a journalist and uncle to one of the teens, takes a particular interest in the case and investigates. This leads him to a holiday resort called Hakone Pacific Island, where the four teens stayed one week before their death. There he watches a videotape left behind in their room which contains a series of abstract and realistic images. At the end of the sequence of cryptic and disturbing images, a warning appears: \"The one who saw these images is destined to die in one week at this time. If you do not wish to die, do as will be said from now on. That is-\" but the rest is erased by an advertisement. This has a strange mental effect on Kazuyuki, who immediately believes that the tape has now placed its mark on him.\n\nHe enlists the help of his best friend, Ryuji Takayama, a philosophy graduate and an admitted rapist. When Ryuji hears Kazuyuki's story, he watches the tape, and asks Kazuyuki to make him a copy for him to study at home. Their investigations lead them to the volcanic island of Oshima. After Kazuyuki's wife and child also watch the tape, Kazuyuki realises he must find the truth and perform the \"charm\" to prevent the deaths of both his family and his friend.\n\nThen their investigations lead them to search for a person named Sadako Yamamura. Sadako was the daughter of Shizuko Yamamura, who was known for her exceptional ESP abilities but later branded as a charlatan. In depression, Shizuko jumped into Mount Mihara's crater. Later they learn that Sadako, who lived 30 years ago, was still missing. The evidence leads them back to Hakone where they find a well. At the bottom lie Sadako's remains; Kazuyuki sets her free by giving her a proper burial. Thinking he has performed the charm, Ryuji and Kazuyuki go home convinced. At Ryuji's deadline, he is watching the videotape; the space around the TV becomes distorted. He dials Mai Takano, his assistant. The television shows the scene of rolling dice. Ryuji tries to telephone Kazuyuki and yells \"Get me out of here!\" before screaming as he is killed by the curse.\n\nWhen Kazuyuki realizes that the charm was to copy the tape and show it to somebody else, he rushes to his family to save them.\n\nThe events in the story occur a day after Ryuji's death. By chance, Ando Mitsuo, Ryuji's former university classmate, is assigned to do the autopsy of Ryuji. He and his colleague, Miyashita, found a benign tumor in Ryuji's throat which is believed to be the cause of his death. They are puzzled because the tumor that they find resembles a smallpox tumor that was eradicated 30 years ago. Ando, along with his colleague, Miyashita, find out that an organism called the Ring Virus causes this tumour. The virus is transferred to the body through the tape and begins to grow into a tumour inside the viewer's throat. When the charm is not performed, the tumor grows until it blocks the airway and kills the person. To stop this, the tape must be copied and shown to another person.\nInside his stomach they find the word RING and a series of cryptic messages. This further perplexes Ando.\n\nIn search for the cryptic messages meaning, he comes to meet Ryuji's assistant, Mai Takano. Mai, who seems to know something about the videotape, tells Ando about the curse but is unsure how Ryuji died. As a scientist, Ando laughs at Mai's explanation. He goes to talk to Kazuyuki but finds that he and his family were involved in a car accident. It is discovered that Kazuyuki's wife and child were dead before the crash. Kazuyuki is critically wounded and unable to talk. At the accident site there lies a crushed videotape. When Mai suddenly disappears, Ando is further motivated to investigate. He stumbles upon Ryuji's files which contain the title, THE RING. He is uncertain about the discovery because it contains supernatural explanations and contradicts scientific ones.\n\nThe virus mutated and uses the report as a medium. After reading the report, Ando has thoughts of Sadako and the well. Through a series of events, he is led to the well in Hakone.\n\nDays after Mai's disappearance, he meets a beautiful woman named Masako who introduced herself as Mai's older sister. He falls in love with her. In doing so, they make love one night and Masako ends up pregnant. Later he finds out that Masako and Sadako are the same. One night he receives a letter from Sadako/Masako stating; \"Don't ever disobey me because you don't know who you are dealing with.\" Ando chooses Sadako and is told to publish Ryuji's files and dominate the world.\n\nA medical student named Kaoru Futami has a father who has contracted a deadly disease called Metastatic Human Cancer (MHC), a cancer involving both animals and plants. He discovers that his father was involved in a massive supercomputer project named LOOP. The LOOP was a computer simulation of the emergence of life but that did not succeed. It is known that everyone who was involved in the LOOP has died by the same type of cancer.\n\nIn the course of events, Kaoru meets a woman named Reiko and falls in love with her. They sleep together, and Reiko becomes pregnant, which makes Reiko vulnerable to MHC. Kaoru continues his investigations, which lead him to a man (and the last surviving person involved in the LOOP) named Amano. Amano reveals that LOOP was a project involving 100 supercomputers strung together and aiming to recreate life. Amano tells Kaoru of a lab in New Mexico where another scientist might be alive. Kaoru goes there only to find the scientist dead. Then, he enters the lab and finds a pair of virtual reality goggles and gloves. He tried it, and minutes later he is in the LOOP.\n\nIn the LOOP, he sees everything, but one event intrigues him, the emergence of the Ring Virus. He sees in detail all the events of the previous novels from different angles. After some discussion with Amano, he knows that the LOOP's creator wanted to recreate Ryuji's death and in so doing could clone him and insert him into someone's womb. The cloned Ryuji, however, had the Ring Virus in him. When Ryuji was born, the virus escaped and mutated into MHC.\n\nKaoru is desperate to find a cure for MHC, but he encounters a storm that leaves him dying. He is saved by an old man named Cristoph Eliot, the leader of the LOOP project. He reveals that Kaoru was Ryuji's clone and so has an exceptional gift, immunity to MHC.\n\nKaoru has to be analyzed so that his immunity can be understood. An analysis machine is created. The analyzed object, however, has to be molecularized in order to be scanned accurately, meaning that Kaoru might die. Heroically, he agrees to this.\n\nThe old man transfers Kaoru's analyzed molecules into the LOOP. He promises that Reiko, his wife, can see him through the VR Goggles and that she will not be alone. In the LOOP, Kaoru is reborn through Sadako as Ryuji. He creates a vaccine for the Ring virus which he gives to Ando, reenacting the epilogue of \"Spiral\". The book ends with Kaoru/Ryuji sitting watching the stars, thinking that Reiko is watching over him.\n\nThis short story collection consists of stories related to the \"Ring\" novels. It is also the conclusion to the Ring series.\n\nFloating Coffin – These are the final moments of Mai Takano's life within the premises of Spiral.\n\nIt begins when she watches the tape. She starts ovulating then, and Sadako's DNA is planted in Mai's eggs. After viewing the tape, she feels nausea. Unknown to her, Sadako is being conceived in her womb. Days later, Sadako has total control of Mai since she lacks the will to resist. Exactly seven days after viewing the tape, Mai gives birth to a baby Sadako. When Sadako is reborn, she kills Mai with her psychic powers.\n\nLemonheart – The second story of the collection tells the story of Sadako when she was 19 years old in Tokyo. This is 30 years prior to the Ring. \nWhen Sadako graduated from high school, she joined the Hiroshi Acting Troupe as an apprentice. As days go by, she falls in love with Toyama, the soundman. Once, she is caught doing nensha with a turned-off TV. This alienates her from the group. While Sadako and Toyama are intimate, a spiteful member of the troupe records their conversation. When the member plays this recording, everyone who hears it dies five days later. Because of these events, Sadako flees to Hakone to her father, who is in the hospital.\n\nAt a well, a doctor rapes her, but she defends herself with a psychic attack on the doctor. He retaliates by strangling Sadako, which incapacitates her power. Helpless, she is thrown into the well. As she dies, she has a vision of being reborn inside Mai Takano's womb, which occurs in the first story.\n\nHappy Birthday – The final story develops the plot of the last novel, \"Loop\", while incorporating new information disclosed in the previous two short stories. It depicts the last events taking place in the \"Ring\" universe chronologically and is also the conclusion of the series.\n\nReiko is questioning the worth of giving birth to a child if the only world he'll arrive in is full of death. Her older son has died, and the father of her unborn child still missing. There she goes to a lab and learn the final secrets of the LOOP.\n\nS is a 2012 Koji Suzuki novel and the fifth entry of the series.\n\nFollowing on the story told in the series of novels that began with the runaway bestseller \"Ring\", this work starts with 28-year-old image processing specialist Takanori Ando being handed a USB memory stick by the president of the CG production company where he works. Tasked with analyzing its contents, Ando gasps at the graphic images he sees, and quickly concludes that they cannot have been faked or generated by CG software. Assuming the man in the video did indeed kill himself, what could his purpose have been in leaving this footage behind?\nAndo saves the file to his PC. When he plays it again the next day, the man's body has shifted to a lower position, and in subsequent viewings, the video undergoes further changes. Meanwhile, Ando's fiancée Akane Maruyama, a 24-year-old high-school teacher, learns she is pregnant with his child. When she is at Ando’s apartment, she is drawn as if by an irresistible force to watch the suicide video on his PC. After examining the video more closely, Ando manages to identify the apartment building where he believes it was filmed. He also realizes that someone is following him, though intermittently, and that he may in fact be in danger.\nThe man who holds the key to the story is philosophy instructor Ryuji Takayama, who appeared in previous volumes of the series. Twenty-five years ago, Takayama had died after watching a video that transmitted a curse, but, miraculously returning to life, he has been battling the evil villainess Sadako to prevent the Sadako Virus from spreading. Akane is in fact Takayama's child by a woman who carries Sadako's DNA, and the man who kills himself in the suicide is a way of informing Ando about the intervening events.\n\nKoji Suzuki - Tide, 2013.\n\nReleased in 2013 and the sixth entry to the series, \"Tide\" is linked most directly to its sequel \"Loop\".\nCram-school math instructor Seiji Kashiwa is a creation of the supercomputer LOOP, and the biological information implanted in him reflects the lives of Ryuji Takayama, who appeared in both Ring and Loop, and Kaoru Futami, who appeared in the latter volume; but due to a system error, portions of his memory have become lost. One day, student Rie Yoshina comes to him for advice regarding her friend Haruna Tajima, who inexplicably fell into a coma after seeing a female dogū figurine of the Jomon Period (ca. 12,000–300 BCE) depicting the release of a snake. It is a baffling story, but as he listens to Rie's account, Seiji senses intuitively that it is a message directed at him. As if guided by some unknown force, he begins going back over the events that took place in \"Ring\". The reader learns about the conflicts between Shizuko Yamamura and her daughter Sadako, who were central to the events; about the early years of the ancient ascetic who gave Shizuko her special powers; and about the surprising secret of Ryuji Takayama's birth. In the process, Seiji becomes one with Ryuji, and begins filling in the missing pieces of his memory. At the same time, he comes to feel a connection with the unbroken tides of human passion and memory that have ebbed and flowed since time immemorial, and in turn, to understand why he has been given life in this world.\n\nThere have been at least a dozen films made which are either direct adaptations of Suzuki's \"Ring\" books, or which create new stories using the same characters and background story of the books.\n\nFour adaptions have been made of Suzuki's 1991 book \"Ring\". The first was the Japanese TV film \"\", released in 1995. This remained very close to the book but didn't have the success of later films.\n\nIn 1998, Hideo Nakata made a new Japanese adaptation of the book in his film \"Ring\". The original sequel to this was \"Rasen\", an adaptation of \"Spiral\" (Suzuki's sequel to his first \"Ring\" book). However, due to poor reception, a new sequel, Ring 2, was released in 1999 which continued the storyline of Ring but was not based on Suzuki's books. This was followed in 2000 by \"\", which was based on the short story \"Lemonheart\" from Suzuki's 1999 book, \"Birthday\".\n\nOne \"Ring\" film has been made in South Korea, the 1999 film \"The Ring Virus\".\n\nThree full-length \"Ring\" films were made in the USA, plus one short film. In 2002, \"The Ring\" was released. This was an adaptation of Nakata's 1998 film. A short film, \"Rings\", was released in 2005 to fill the gaps between the 2002 film and the second full-length film \"The Ring Two\", also released in 2005. A third full-length film, \"Rings\", was released in 2017.\n\nIn 2012 \"Sadako 3D\" was released, adapted from Suzuki's book \"S\", and in and 2013 \"Sadako 3D 2\" was released.\n\nIn 2015, \"Hikiko-san vs Sadako\" was released. It is a crossover of the Japanese Hikiko-san series of horror films.\n\nIn 2016, \"Bunshinsaba vs Sadako\" was released. It is a crossover of the People's Republic of China \"Bunshinsaba\" series of horror films. (The South Korean \"Bunshinsaba\" series is unrelated.) trailer and review\n\nIn 2016 \"Sadako vs. Kayako\", directed by Kōji Shiraishi, was released. It is a crossover of the \"Ju-on\" and \"Ring\" series of horror films. It features Sadakaya, a ghost that resulted from the fusion of Sadako and the \"Ju-on\" antagonist Kayako Saeki.\n\nThe 2003 film \"Scary Movie 3\" significantly parodies the American remake film \"The Ring\".\n\nThe 2009 season 5 episode of \"Ghost Whisperer\", \"Head Over Heels\", contains horses going crazy. The episode makes a direct comparison with Samara driving the horses crazy in her barn with her nensha powers\n\nThe 2013 season 5 episode of \"Castle\", \"Scared to Death\", contains a haunted DVD so scary that it kills people three days after they watch it. The episode makes a direct comparison between the curse and \"The Ring\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10616157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10616157", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Châlons", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Châlons\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Châlons (Latin: \"Dioecesis Catalaunensis\"; French: \"Diocèse de Châlons\") is a diocese of the Latin Rite of the Roman Catholic Church in Châlons-sur-Marne, France. The diocese comprises the department of Marne, excluding the arrondissement of Reims.\n\nIt is a suffragan of the Archdiocese of Reims.\n\nLocal legends maintain that the evangelization of Châlons by St. Memmius, sent thither by St. Peter and assisted by his sister Poma, also by St. Donatian and St. Domitian, took place in the first century. These legends are not creditable, and in the revised list of the diocesan saints in the Breviary (prayer book) these legends have been suppressed.\n\nLouis Duchesne, a prominent scholar of early Christianity in Gaul, assigns the founding of the See of Châlons to the fourth century. Amandinus, who attended the Council of Tours in 461, is traditionally listed as its ninth bishop. Leudomerus (St. Lumier), Bishop of Châlons about 580, was noted for his rapport with animals.\n\nThe bishops of Châlons played a part in French history as Peers of France. At the coronation of the Capetian kings, the Bishop of Châlons always carried the royal ring.\n\nThe older cathedral at Châlons had been dedicated to Saint Vincent, up to the time of Charles the Bald. It had become the cathedral under Bishop Felix I, ca. 625, when the older cathedral was abandoned. In 931, and again in 963, the town of Châlons suffered serious fires. In 931 the fire was deliberately set by King Raoul (Rudolph) in reprisal for the support given by Bishop Bovo to Count Héribert of Vermandois against the King. In 963 it was Count Héribert of Vermandois who put the city to the flames because Bishop Gebuin had supported the deposition of Héribert's son from the archbishopric of Reims. In both cases the cathedral suffered serious damage. In 1138 the cathedral was struck by lightning and mostly destroyed.\n\nThe new Cathedral of S. Étienne was consecrated in 1147 by the exiled Pope Eugene III, assisted by eighteen cardinals, with Bernard of Clairvaux in attendance. In 1253, when he was visiting Rome, Bishop Pierre de Hans was able to obtain what was claimed to be a fragment of the head of S. Étienne (Stephen the Protomartyr) from the Abbot of the monastery at S. Paolo fuori le mura.\n\nThe first seminary in Châlons was founded by Bishop Jérome de Burges (or Jérôme Bourgeois) on 14 October 1572, in part of the abandoned Hôpital Saint Lazare, which was thereafter called the Collège S. Lazare. From 1617, the seminarists shared quarters with the Jesuits, and when the Jesuits moved to larger quarters, the seminary followed them. It was only in 1646 that Bishop de Vialar provided them with separate, and inadequate, quarters. Bishop de Clermont-Tonnerre had the church of S. Nicholas demolished and the seminary extended on its foundations.\n\nThe Collège de Châlons (Collège S. Lazare) was endowed by Bishop Cosme Clausse on 30 May 1615, and he and the City entered into a contract with the Jesuits to staff the college on 23 February 1617. The Jesuits directed the school until they were expelled from France in 1762, at which point the collège was turned over to laymen and secular clergy until the end of the monarchy in 1791. In 1784 some 245 pupils were being educated there.\n\nThe diocese was well supplied with positions which carried income with them. The cathedral had eight dignities: the Dean, the Cantor, the Grand Archdeacon (of Châlons), the Archdeacon of Joinville, the Archdeacon of Astenai, and the Archdeacon of Vertus, the Treasurer, and the Succentor. In addition there were thirty Canons. In 1699 the number of Canons was thirty-nine, while in 1764 the number was thirty-one. There had once been a Provost as well, but the office was abolished by Bishop Roger in 1065, with royal consent. The bishop appointed the four Archdeacons and the Treasurer, while the Dean, the Cantor, and the Succentor were elected by the Chapter of the Cathedral. The Chapter also assigned the prebends, to which the Archdeacons and Treasurer were not entitled.\n\nThere were also two Collegiate Churches in the city of Châlons, Saint-Trinité (with ten prebendaries, appointed by the Cathedral Chapter) and Nôtre Dame en Vaux (with twelve prebendaries, appointed by the Cathedral Chapter). Among its abbeys, the diocese counted: St. Memmius (Augustinians), founded in the fifth century by Alpinus; Toussaints (Augustinians), founded in the eleventh century; Châtrices (Augustinians); Montier-en-Der (Benedictines), founded in the seventh century by St. Bereharius, a monk from Luxeuil; Saint Urbain, founded in 865; Saint-Pierre au Mont (Benedictines), founded during the same period; Moiremont (Benedictines); Huiron (Benedictines); Saint-Sauveur-de Vertus (Benedictines); Nôtre-Dame de Vertus (Augustinians); Trois-Fontaines (Cistercians); Haute-Fontaine (Cistercians); Cheminon (Cistercians); and Moutier-en-Argonne (Cistercians). The king was the patron and made the appointments at Toussaints, Saint-Pierre, Saint-Memmius, and Châtrices. Nôtre-Dame de l'Epine, near Châlons, was a place of pilgrimage as early as the beginning of the fifteenth century, thanks to the mysterious discovery of a miraculous image of the Virgin Mary.\n\nIn 1790 the National Constituent Assembly decided to bring the French church under the control of the State. Civil government of the provinces was to be reorganized into new units called 'départements', originally intended to be 83 or 84 in number. The dioceses of the Roman Catholic Church were to be reduced in number, to coincide as much as possible with the new departments. Since there were more than 130 bishoprics at the time of the Revolution, more than fifty dioceses needed to be suppressed and their territories consolidated. Clergy would need to take an oath of allegiance to the State and its Constitution, specified by the Civil Constitution of the Clergy, and they would become salaried officials of the State. Both bishops and priests would be elected by special 'electors' in each department. This meant schism, since bishops would no longer need to be approved (preconised) by the Papacy; the transfer of bishops, likewise, which had formerly been the exclusive prerogative of the pope in canon law, would be the privilege of the State; the election of bishops no longer lay with the Cathedral Chapters (which were all abolished), or other responsible clergy, or the Pope, but with electors who did not even have to be Catholics or Christians.\n\nThe diocese of Châlons-sur-Marne was one of the dioceses which was suppressed, and its territory was transferred to a new diocese centered at Reims, and called the 'Diocese of the Marne'. The bishop of Marne would be the Metropolitan of a 'Metropole du Nord-Est', which would include: Marne, Aisne, Ardennes, Meurthe, Moselle, and Nord. The dioceses of Soissons and Troyes were also suppressed and incorporated into the 'Diocèse du Marne'. The Bishops of Reims, Châlons, Soissons and Troyes protested, addressing letters to their clergy and to the 'electors' and warning them to take no account of the activities of the government as regards the Church. In Châlons a large number of the clergy were in favor of reforms. One in four of the curates, and one in five of the vicars, refused to take the oath to the Civil Constitution (or retracted it after they had taken it). This meant that they were discharged from their functions and left without incomes; they became targets of the more radical of the revolutionaries.\n\nIn Marne, the 539 electors were invited to assemble by the Constituent Assembly, and 395 of them assembled at Reims in March 1791. They elected Fr. Gangand, the curé of Mareuil-sur-Ay, but he refused. Then, on March 15, they elected Nicolas Diot as Bishop and Metropolitan of Marne, and he thus acquired control over the suppressed diocese of Châlons-sur-Marne. He was consecrated in Paris on 1 May 1791 by Constitutional Bishop Jean-Baptiste Gobel. The consecration was valid, having been performed in the proper form by three Roman Catholic bishops, but illicit and schismatic, since the election and consecration had taken place without the sanction of Pope Pius VII. Diot acquiesced in new attitudes; he actually presided at the marriage of one of his priest. He survived the Terror (which had abolished Religion and replaced it with Reason), and as late as 1800 he carried out an episcopal consecration (Cambrai) In 1801 he presided at a diocesan synod, and in June 1802 at a Metropolitan synod. He died on 31 December 1802.\n\nIn the meantime First Consul Napoleon Bonaparte was preparing to end the religious confusion in France by entering into a Concordat with the Vatican. He had plans for the future, and he required a united France in order to carry them out successfully. In separate actions both he and Pius VII called on all bishops in France to submit their resignations. On November 29, 1801, by the bull \"Qui Christi Domini\", Pope Pius VII suppressed all of the Roman Catholic dioceses in France, and reinstituted them under papal authority. This act did away with whatever doubt or ambiguity might still exist as to a 'Constitutional Church' and 'Constitutional dioceses' in France. United in 1802 with the Diocese of Meaux and in 1821 with the Archdiocese of Reims, the Diocese of Châlons was re-established in 1822, and is suffragan to the Archdiocese of Reims.\n\nThe Concordat of 1801 was unilaterally abrogated by the Law of Separation of Church and State, enacted on 9 December 1905. From that date, the Republic no longer nominated French bishops. The law also declared that all religious buildings were property of the state and local governments, and enacted the prohibition of affixing religious signs on public buildings. Nuns were removed from hospital staffs. Schools were secularized, and religious instruction was forbidden to children between the ages of six and thirteen. The law did not apply to the provinces of Alsace or Lorraine, which were at the time part of the German Empire.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2741936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2741936", "title": "Seven Sages of the Bamboo Grove", "text": "Seven Sages of the Bamboo Grove\n\nThe Seven Sages of the Bamboo Grove (also known as the Seven Worthies of the Bamboo Grove, ) were a group of Chinese scholars, writers, and musicians of the 3rd century CE. Although the various individuals all existed, their interconnection is not entirely certain. Several of the seven were linked with the Qingtan school of Daoism as it existed in the Cao Wei state (or nation).\n\nThe Seven Sages found their lives to be in danger when the avowedly \"Confucian\" Jin Dynasty (Sima clan) came to power. Among other things, some of the seven wrote poems criticizing the court and the administration, and wrote Daoist influenced literature. Not all seven sages had similar views. Some of the seven tried to negotiate their way through the difficult political positions by self-consciously adopting the roles of alcohol-fueled pranksters and eccentrics avoiding government control (for example, Liu Ling), yet some ended up joining the Jin dynasty (for example Wang Rong). However much they may or may not personally engaged in \"qingtan\", they became the subjects of it themselves in the \"Shishuo Xinyu\" (Chinese: 世說新語 \"A New Account of the Tales of the World\").\n\nThe Seven Sages are Ji Kang (aka Xi Kang), Liu Ling, Ruan Ji, Ruan Xian, Xiang Xiu, Wang Rong and Shan Tao. Ji Kang was especially close to Ruan Ji; their relationship was described as \"stronger than metal and fragrant as orchids\". The wife of Shan Tao was said to be impressed by Ruan Ji and Ji Kang's prowess when she spied on them during sex.\n\nAs it is traditionally depicted, the group wished to escape the intrigues, corruption and stifling atmosphere of court life during the politically fraught Three Kingdoms period of Chinese history. They gathered in a bamboo grove near the house of Ji Kang in Shanyang (now in Henan province) where they enjoyed, and praised in their works, the simple, rustic life. This was contrasted with the politics of court. The Seven Sages stressed the enjoyment of Chinese alcoholic beverages, personal freedom, spontaneity and a celebration of nature.\n\nIt would be Ji Kang's refusal to work for the new regime which would eventually lead to his execution. The group's rural life became a common theme for art, and they inspired other artists who wished to retreat during times of political upheavals.\n\nAnother person associated with the Seven Sages is Rong Qiqi (榮啟期), who in fact lived quite earlier. This association is depicted in some apocryphal art from the fourth century CE, in a tomb near Nanjing.\n\nThe Seven Sages, or the symbol that they became, have been remarked to be influential in Chinese poetry, music, art, and overall culture.\n\nThe Seven Sages of the Bamboo Grove have inspired not only generations of poets, but also painters and other artists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36965293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36965293", "title": "Sheri Salata", "text": "Sheri Salata\n\nSheri Salata (born October 20, 1959) is co-president of Oprah Winfrey Network (OWN) and president of Winfrey’s Harpo Productions. She was born in Georgia and raised in Chicago's northern suburbs. She graduated from the University of Iowa in the early 1980s. Salata's first job was assistant to Perry Stebor, an executive at Grey Advertising in Chicago. Salata entered Harpo Studios in 1995 as promotions producer. In 2009 she was named president of Harpo Studios. Salata served as executive producer of \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" from 2006 until the show ended in 2011. She was co-president of OWN with Erik Logan from July 2011 until May 2016.\n\nIn May 2016, Sheri stepped down as co-president to form her own brand innovation agency STORY alongside Nancy Hala. OWN and the Oprah Media Group will be clients.\n\nSalata was introduced to a wider audience in the TV series \"\", airing on OWN January–August 2011.\n\nSalata is unmarried and keeps English bulldogs. She practices Transcendental Meditation at work as part of a company initiative.\n"}
{"id": "39747755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39747755", "title": "Shinto origins of sumo", "text": "Shinto origins of sumo\n\nThe Shinto origins of sumo can easily be traced back through the centuries and many current sumo rituals are directly handed down from Shinto rituals. The Shinto religion has historically been used as a means to express Japanese nationalism and ethnic identity, especially prior to the end of World War II. In its association with Shinto, sumo has also been seen as a bulwark of Japanese tradition.\n\nSumo can be traced back to ancient Shinto rituals to ensure a bountiful harvest and honor the spirits known as kami. In modern times, the canopy over the sumo ring, called the dohyō is reminiscent of a Shinto shrine, the officiator is dressed in garb very similar to that of a Shinto priest, and the throwing of salt before a bout is believed to purify the ring.\n\nPrior to becoming a professional sport in the Tokugawa period, sumo was originally performed on the grounds of a shrine or temple. The present \"dohyō\", which is still considered sacred, is in honor of the days when matches were held on the sacred grounds of shrines and temples. The roof over the \"dohyō\" called \"yakata\" originally represented the sky for the purpose of emphasizing the sacred nature of \"dohyō\", which symbolizes the earth. On the day before the beginning of each tournament, the \"dohyō-matsuri\", a ring-blessing ceremony, is performed by sumo officials called \"gyōji\". They are the referees on the \"dohyō\", who judge each sumo match. Their elaborate, colorful costumes are based on ceremonial court robes of the Heian period (AD 794 – 1185). Also their black hats are exact copies of the hats worn by Shinto priests depicted in various Heian art. Dressed in the white robes of a Shinto priest \"gyōji\" purify and bless the \"dohyō\" in a solemn ceremony during which salt, kelp, dried squid and chestnuts are buried in the center of the \"dohyō\". Observing officials and invited guests drink sake, Japanese traditional alcoholic drink as it is offered to each one in turn. The remaining sake is poured over the straw boundary of the \"dohyō\", as an offering to the gods. Shinto ritual still continues to pervade every aspect of sumo. Before a tournament, two of the sumo officiators known as gyōji functioning as Shinto priests enact a ritual to consecrate the newly constructed \"dohyō\".\n\nEach day of the tournament the dohyō-iri, or ring-entering ceremonies performed by the top divisions before the start of their wrestling day are derived from sumo rituals. This ceremony involves them ascending the \"dohyō\", walking around the edge and facing the audience. They then turn and face inwards, clap their hands, raise one hand, slightly lift the ceremonial aprons called kesho-mawashi, and raise both hands, then continue walking around the \"dohyō\" as they leave the same way they came in. This clapping ritual is an important Shinto element and reminiscent of the clapping in Shinto shrines designed to attract the attention of the gods. The yokozuna's ring-entering ceremony is regarded as a purification ritual in its own right, and is occasionally performed at Shinto shrines for this purpose. Every newly promoted \"yokozuna\" performs his first ring-entering ceremony at the Meiji Shrine in Tokyo.\n"}
{"id": "39299470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39299470", "title": "Silvanae", "text": "Silvanae\n\nIn the religion of the Roman Empire, the Silvanae are nymphs or goddesses associated with the woodland god Silvanus. They are attested by inscriptions mainly in Pannonia, with a little more than a third of the evidence scattered in the rest of the Western Roman Empire. Elsewhere, and in Latin literature, Silvanus is accompanied by nymphs. \"Silvanae\" may be a regional preference in naming, not a form of cultic devotion distinct from the Nymphs of Silvanus. Like similar nature deities, Silvanus himself is found sometimes conceived of as plural \"(Silvani)\", and Silvani/Silvanae form a male-female complement characteristic of the Roman conception of deity.\n\nA Silvana is often depicted holding a tree branch, and although the evidence is sketchy, they may have been a form of hamadryades, nymphs who inhabit trees. The Silvanae sometimes bear the epithet \"augustae\", given to deities associated with Imperial cult, or \"silvestres\", \"woodland\". In Dacia, they are once called \"Campestres\", like the \"Mothers of the Field\" honored by the Roman military. They are sometimes in the company of the crossroads goddesses known as Quadruviae, Triviae or Biviae (Four-, Three- or Two-Ways), found in Celtic regions of the Empire.\n\nMost dedications to the Silvanae were made by free citizens and military personnel, including legionaries, a military prefect of equestrian rank, and a decurion. About a quarter of the dedications were made by women.\n\nSilvanae, usually three in number, are depicted frontally in a row with their hands or arms intertwined. They can also appear singly, or in a group of as many as nine figures. When Silvanus appears with them, he stands to the left or right without interrupting their grouping. The Silvanae carry tree branches, flower pots, conch shells, or wreaths. With one exception, in which they appear nude from the waist up, Silvanae are clothed.\n\nBecause of their concentration in the Danubian provinces, Silvanae are sometimes thought to be Imperial forms of the Celtic Matres or Matronae, \"mother\" goddesses who often appear as a clothed triad bearing flowers or other vegetative symbols. The identification is particularly suggested by an inscription from Lugdunum that names \"Matres Pannoniorum\". M.L. West thought them more likely to be Illyrian nymphs than Italic. The three Silvanae may reflect an understanding of Silvanus's tripartite nature as described in the \"Gromatici Veteres\" and by St. Augustine.\n"}
{"id": "1057768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1057768", "title": "Takht-e Soleymān", "text": "Takht-e Soleymān\n\nTakht-e Soleymān (), also known as Azar Goshnasp (), literally \"the Fire of the Warriors\", is an archaeological site in West Azarbaijan, Iran. It lies midway between Urmia and Hamadan, very near the present-day town of Takab, and west of Tehran.\n\nThe fortified site, which is located on a hill created by the outflow of a calcium-rich spring pond, was recognized as a World Heritage Site in July 2003. The citadel includes the remains of a Zoroastrian fire temple built during the Sassanid period and partially rebuilt (as a mosque) during the Ilkhanid period. This temple housed one of the three \"Great Fires\" or \"Royal Fires\" that Sassanid rulers humbled themselves before in order to ascend the throne. The fire at Takht-i Soleiman was called \"ādur Wishnāsp\" and was dedicated to the \"arteshtar\" or warrior class of the Sasanid. A 4th century Armenian manuscript relating to Jesus and Zarathustra, and various historians of the Islamic period, mention this pond. The foundations of the fire temple around the pond is attributed to that legend. Takht-E Soleyman appears on the 4th century Peutinger Map.\n\nThis site got its biblical name after the Arab conquest. Folk legend relates that King Solomon used to imprison monsters inside a nearby 100 m deep crater which is called \"Zendan-e Soleyman\" \"Prison of Solomon\". Solomon is also said to have created the flowing pond in the fortress.\n\nArchaeological excavations have revealed traces of a 5th-century BC occupation during the Achaemenid period, as well as later Parthian settlements in the citadel. Coins belonging to the reign of Sassanid kings, and that of the Byzantine emperor Theodosius II (AD 408-450), have also been discovered there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3182397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3182397", "title": "Talmud Torah", "text": "Talmud Torah\n\nTalmud Torah schools were created in the Jewish world, both Ashkenazic and Sephardic, as a form of religious school for boys of modest backgrounds, where they were given an elementary education in Hebrew, the Scriptures (especially the Pentateuch), and the Talmud (and Halakha). This was meant to prepare them for Yeshiva or, particularly in the movement's modern form, for Jewish education at a high school level. The Talmud Torah was modelled after the Cheder, a traditional form of schooling whose essential elements it incorporated, with changes appropriate to its public form rather than the heder's \"private\" financing through less formal or institutionalized mechanisms, including tuition fees and donations.\n\nThe father was traditionally the sole teacher of his children in Jewish history (Deut. xi. 19). The institution known as the \"\"bei rav\" or \"bet rabban\" (house of the teacher), or as the \"bei safra\" or \"bet sefer\"\" (house of the book), is said to have been originated by Ezra' and his Great Assembly, who provided a public school in Jerusalem to secure the education of fatherless boys of the age of sixteen years and upward. But the school system did not develop until Joshua ben Gamla the high priest caused public schools to be opened in every town and hamlet for all children above six or seven years of age (B. B. 21a).\n\nThe expense was borne by the community, and strict discipline was observed. Rav, however, ordered Samuel b. Shilat to deal tenderly with the pupils, to refrain from corporal punishment, or at most to use a shoe-strap in correcting pupils for inattention. A stupid pupil was made monitor until able to grasp the art of learning. Raba fixed the number of pupils at twenty-five for one teacher; if the number was between twenty-five and forty an assistant teacher (\"resh dukana\") was necessary; and for over forty, two teachers were required.\n\nOnly married men were engaged as teachers, but there is a difference of opinion regarding the qualification of the \"melammed\" (teacher). Raba preferred one who taught his pupils much, even though somewhat carelessly, while Rav Dimi of Nehardea preferred one who taught his pupils little, but that correctly, as an error in reading once adopted is hard to correct (ib.). It is, of course, assumed that both qualifications were rarely to be found in one person.\n\nThe teaching in the Talmud Torah consumed the whole day, and in the winter months a few hours of the night besides. Teaching was suspended in the afternoon of Friday, and in the afternoon of the day preceding a holy day. On Sabbaths and holy days no new lessons were assigned; but the work of the previous week was reviewed on Sabbath afternoons by the child's parent or guardian (Shulḥan 'Aruk, Yoreh De'ah, 245).\n\nThe Talmud Torah did little for what was then considered the properly religious teaching and training of the pupils; this was left to parents or guardians. The main object of the early schools was, instead, to instruct the pupil in the laws of Moses and in the knowledge of the rabbinical writings, more from a literary than from a practical standpoint. In later times, influenced in a measure by the Christian parochial schools of the thirteenth century, the reading of the prayers and benedictions and the teaching of the principles of the Jewish faith were included. In almost every community an organization called \"Hevra Talmud Torah\" was formed, whose duty was to create a fund and provide means for the support of public schools, and to control all teachers and pupils.\n\nR. Asher ben Jehiel (1250–1328) ruled to allow withdrawals from the funds of the Talmud Torah for the purpose of meeting the annual tax collected by the local governor, since otherwise great hardships would fall upon the poor, who were liable to be stripped of all their belongings if they failed in the prompt payment of their taxes (Responsa, rule vi., § 2). On the other hand, money from the general charity fund was at times employed to support the Talmud Torah, and donations for a synagogue or cemetery were similarly used (ib. rule xiii., §§ 5,14).\n\nBecause Talmudic and Torah education was traditionally deemed obligatory for males and not females, Talmud Torahs were traditionally single-sex institutions. It is common even in the present day for men to continue their full-time Torah studies well into their third decade of life while females pursue \"secular\" education such as computer programming, mathematics, and home economics.\n\nThe Talmud Torah organization in Rome included eight societies in 1554, and was reconstituted August 13, 1617 (Rieger, \"Gesch. der Juden in Rom,\" p. 316, Berlin, 1895). Later, certain synagogues assumed the name \"Talmud Torah,\" as in the case of one at Fes, Morocco in 1603 (Ankava, \"Kerem Ḥemed,\" ii. 78, Leghorn, 1869) and one at Cairo. This was probably because the school was held in or adjoined the synagogue.\n\nThe income of the society was derived from several sources:\n\nSamuel de Medina (1505–89) ruled that in case of a legacy left by will to a Talmud Torah and guaranteed by the testator's brother, the latter was not held liable if the property had been consumed owing to the prolonged illness of the deceased (Responsa, Ḥoshen Mishpaṭ, No. 357). A legacy for the support of a yeshivah and Talmud Torah in a certain town, if accompanied by a provision that it may be managed \"as the son of the testator may see fit,\" may be transferred, it was declared, to a yeshivah elsewhere (ib. Oraḥ Ḥayyim, i., No. 60; see also \"Paḥad Yiẓḥaḳ,\" s.v., p. 43a).\n\nThe election of officers was made by ballot: three gabba'im, three vice-gabba'im, and a treasurer. Only learned and honorable men over 36 years of age were eligible for election. The taḳḳanot regulating these sources of the Talmud Torah's income were in existence in the time of R. Moses Isserles. R. Yoel Sirkis, rabbi of Cracow in 1638, endorsed these regulations and added many others, all of which were confirmed at a general assembly of seventy representatives of the congregations on the 25th of Ṭebet, 5398 (1638; F. H. Wetstein, \"Ḳadmoniyyot,\" document No. 1, Cracow, 1892).\n\nSolomon b. Abraham ha-Kohen (sixteenth century) decided that it requires the unanimous consent of the eight trustees of a Talmud Torah to engage teachers where a resolution has been passed that \"no trustee or trustees shall engage the service of a Melamed without the consent of the whole\" (Responsa, ii., No. 89, ed. Venice, 1592).\n\nAs a specimen of the medieval organization of these schools that of the Cracow schools may be selected. From the congregational record (pinḳes) of Cracow in 1551 it appears that the Talmud Torah society controlled both private and public schools. It passed the following taḳḳanot, or Jewish legal writs:\n\n(1) The members shall have general supervision over the teachers and shall visit the Talmud Torah every week to see that the pupils are properly taught.\n\n(2) No melamed may teach the Pentateuch except with the translation \"Be'er Mosheh\" (Judæo-German transl. by Moses b. Issachar, Prague, 1605), \"which is in our vernacular\"; for the advanced pupils he shall use no other than the Rashi commentary.\n\n(3) A melamed in the primary class shall teach not more than twenty-five pupils and shall have two assistants.\n\n(4) One melamed shall not compete with another during the term of his engagement, and shall not seek to obtain a pupil in charge of another teacher, even at the expiration of the term, unless the father or the guardian of the pupil desires to make a change.\n\n(5) The members of the Ḥebra Talmud Torah shall hire a competent and God-fearing melamed, with an assistant, for poor and orphaned boys at the bet ha-midrash.\n\n(6) The melamed and assistant shall teach pupils the\nHebrew alphabet (with the vowels), the Siddur, the Pentateuch (with the \"Be'er Mosheh\" translation), the Rashi commentary, the order of the prayers, etiquette, and good behavior—every boy according to his grade and intelligence; also reading and writing in the vernacular. The more advanced shall be taught Hebrew grammar and arithmetic; those of the highest grade shall study Talmud with Rashi and Tosafot.\n\n(7) Boys near the age of thirteen shall learn the regulations regarding tefillin.\n\n(8) At the age of fourteen a boy who is incapable of learning Talmud shall be taught a trade or become a servant in a household.\n\nThe Sephardim are said to have conducted their Talmud Torah schools more methodically than the Ashkenazim, particularly in Europe. The one in Amsterdam was highly praised by R. Shabbethai b. Isaiah Horowitz (\"Wawe ha-'Ammudim,\" p. 9b, appended to \"Shelah\", Amsterdam, 1698). Shabbethai Bass, in the introduction to his \"Sifte Yeshanim\" (p. 8a, ib. 1680), describes this Talmud Torah and wishes it might serve as a model for other schools:\n\n\"It is built near the synagogue, and has six rooms, each accommodating a separate class under a melammed. The first class is for small boys who are learning to read their prayers. In the second class they learn the Pentateuch from beginning to end, with the musical accents. In the third, they translate the Pentateuch into the vernacular and use the Rashi commentary, divided into the regular weekly sidrot.\n\n\"In the fourth, they learn the Prophets and the Hagiographa, with the proper accents and translation. In the fifth, they learn grammar and begin upon a series of halachic excerpts from the Talmud, the text being in Hebrew and the explanations in the vernacular. Before the approach of a holy day they memorize the laws in the Shulchan Aruch pertaining to that holy day. The sixth class is preparatory to the yeshivah in the bet ha-midrash and is conducted by the ḥakam-rabbi. In this class every day one halachah, with the commentaries of Rashi and the Tosafot, is studied, and compared with the conclusions in the codes of Maimonides, Asheri, and Caro.\n\n\"The hours of study are from 8 to 11 in the morning, and from 2 to 5 in the afternoon; in winter, till the Mincha prayer. The expense of maintaining this school is defrayed from a fund contributed by the members of the Ḥebra Talmud Torah. This Sephardic school made an exception to the rule of keeping the pupils in Talmud Torah all day, and a few hours of the night in the short winter days.\"\n\nThe Talmud Torah at Nikolsburg, Moravia, from 1724 to 1744, gave poor boys an education equal to that which was offered their more fortunate companions. The studies consisted of Siddur, Chumash (Pentateuch), and Talmud (Moritz Güdemann, \"Quellenschriften zur Gesch. des Unterrichts und der Erziehung bei den Deutschen Juden,\" p. 275). The schools in eastern Europe retained the ancient type and methods of the Ashkenazic schools up to the middle of the nineteenth century, when a movement for improvement and better management took place in the larger cities.\n\nIn 1857 at Odessa, the Talmud Torah which had existed ever since the city was chartered was reorganized into a model school by distinguished pedagogues. In 1881 S. J. Abramowitch was appointed principal over 400 pupils. In 1904 two branches were opened in the suburbs with an additional 400 pupils. The boys were furnished text-books and clothing for free. Expenses were altogether 20,000 rubles annually. Every city within the Jewish Pale in Russia had a similar school. The income was derived from a Jewish tax on meat and from private contributions.\n\nIn Jerusalem the Talmud Torah of the Sephardim, called \"Tiferet Yerushalayim,\" was reorganized by the \"hacham bashi\" rabbi Raphael Meir Panigel in 1891, with 300 pupils and 13 teachers. The boys learned Arabic and arithmetic in addition to other subjects, which ranged from the alphabet to the Talmud. The time of study was from sunrise to sunset. The largest contributions for the support of the school came from the Sassoon family, Baghdadi Jews of Bombay and Calcutta, through the meshullachim.\n\nThe Ashkenazic Talmud Torah and Etz Chaim Yeshiva, with 35 teachers and over 1,000 pupils, succeeded the school established by R. Judah he-Hasid (Jerusalem). It was started with a fund contributed by Hirsch Wolf Fischbein and David Janover in 1860. The annual expenditure was in 1910 about $10,000, over half of which was collected in the United States. At Jaffa the Talmud Torah and yeshiva Sha'are Torah was organized in 1886 by N. H. Lewi, with 9 teachers and 9 classes for 102 boys. Its expenses were about $2,000 yearly, mostly covered by donations from abroad.\n\nIn America the Machzikei Talmud Torah in New York City, an Ashkenazi Talmud Torah, was organized in 1883 by Israel (Isidor) Rosenthal. It maintained schools on its own premises at 225-227 East Broadway. It instructed over 1,100 boys at a yearly expense of about $12,000. On January 22, 1905, the society opened a branch at 67 East 7th street, to which Jacob H. Schiff donated $25,000. The society was managed by a board of directors and a committee of education. The studies comprised elementary Hebrew, the reading of the prayers, the translation of the Pentateuch into Yiddish and English, and the principles of the Jewish faith and practise. The time of study occupied only two hours per day, after public-school hours, as all pupils attended the city schools for secular education. There were several other Talmud Torahs in New York; and similar institutions existed in all cities of the United States and Canada with a large Jewish population.\n\nGirls in the United States at this time were often educated at public schools together with boys, and they received their Jewish education through programs at synagogues and Sunday schools, because Jewish day schools were less common. As a result, the \"New World\" Talmud Torah of the first half of the 20th century was co-ed.\n\nTalmud Torah schools continue to exist throughout the Jewish world. They are usually primary schools whose curricula incorporate Jewish and secular material in order to prepare students for Jewish education in the high school or yeshiva environments. Talmud Torah schools tend in their contemporary form to be mixed schools which follow a traditional orientation to Jewish education—that is, one which approach to Judaism is congruent with the Sephardic and historic Ashkenazi orientation, as opposed to the nineteenth- and twentieth-century emergence of Ashkenazi denominations such as the Reform, Conservative, and Reconstructionist movement\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25269351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25269351", "title": "Tamagaki", "text": "Tamagaki\n\nA is a fence surrounding a Japanese Shinto shrine, a sacred area or an imperial palace. Believed to have been initially just a brushwood barrier of trees, \"tamagaki\" have since been made of a variety of materials including wood, stone and—in recent years—concrete. Depending on the material and technique utilized, such fences have a variety of names:\nThe simple fences of ancient and medieval times became more elaborate in pre-modern Japan with the addition of roofs, wainscoting and grilles between posts. An example is the 1636 around the main sanctuary of Nikkō Tōshō-gū.\n\nIf the enclosed area is surrounded by multiple fences, generally the innermost one is called . The of Ise Grand Shrine is surrounded by four fences. From outside to inside these are: , outer and inner \"tamagaki\" and \"mizugaki\". At Ise these fences separate areas for worshipers of different status. All visitors are allowed to pass a gate through the outermost \"itagaki\" fence, while traditionally only members of the imperial family were allowed to pass through the second fence, the outer \"tamagaki\". Today this privilege has been extended to elected representatives. Local mayors and members of assemblies worship at the inner eaves of the outer \"tamagaki\", representatives of prefectural governments, officials of Ise Shrine and Living National Treasures stand halfway between the outer and inner \"tamagaki\". The prime minister, members of both chambers of the diet, and other senior elected officials are allowed to the point just outside the gateway to the inner \"tamagaki\". Entrance to the inner \"tamagaki\" is limited to members of the imperial family and only the emperor and the empress are generally allowed to enter through the innermost \"mizugaki\" fence.\n\nThe \"tamagaki\" and the traditional \"torii\" gate are sometimes replaced by a covered corridor called \"kairō\" and a \"rōmon\" gate. Originally Buddhist, neither was initially typical of shrines, but in time they often came to play the role of the more traditional \"tamagaki\". A famous example is Iwashimizu Hachiman-gū in Kyoto prefecture. This phenomenon was partly caused by the strong influence of Buddhism on \"kami\" worship due to the syncretic fusion of Buddhism and local religion (shinbutsu shūgō).\n"}
{"id": "48400304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48400304", "title": "The Death of God", "text": "The Death of God\n\nThe Death of God is a 1961 book by Gabriel Vahanian, a part of the discussion of death of God theology during the period.\n"}
{"id": "12729182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12729182", "title": "Thomas Harrison Provenzano", "text": "Thomas Harrison Provenzano\n\nThomas Harrison Provenzano (June 6, 1949 – June 21, 2000) was a convicted murderer executed by means of lethal injection by the state of Florida. Provenzano believed he was Jesus Christ and also compared his execution with Christ's crucifixion.\n\nProvenzano was an unemployed electrician when on January 10, 1984 he entered Orange County Courthouse in Orlando carrying a shotgun, an assault rifle, and a revolver along with a large quantity of ammunition and opened fire with the revolver when two bailiffs approached to search him. Provenzano had been charged with disorderly conduct five months earlier and had gone to the Court House with the intention of shooting the officer who had charged him. He killed 60-year-old Deputy Sheriff William Arnie Wilkerson, a retired Navy Lt. Commander who had served 14 years with the Sheriff's Department. In addition, 53-year-old Deputy Sheriff Harry Dalton was wounded and suffered brain damage becoming partially paralyzed eventually dying from his injuries seven years later in 1991. 19 year old Correctional Officer Mark Parker was hit in the spine and paralyzed from the neck down after being caught in the crossfire as he used his own body to shield a civilian from the gunfire. Parker eventually died in March 2009 due to complications from his injuries. Provenzano would be found guilty and sentenced to death for the attack.\n\nIn 1999, the state of Florida heard a petition from Provenzano that argued that the electric chair was a cruel and unusual punishment. During the proceedings, Michael Minerva, who had witnessed Jerry White's execution, said that \"White's body stiffened and was thrust upward and backward to the back of the electric chair\" after the current had been switched on to the chair. He also said that he heard air moving through White's lips and throat, though he could not tell whether the air was going in or out. But even after the execution by electric chair of Allen Lee Davis had caused many irregularities, the constitutionality of the electric chair remained upheld. However, by the time the inmate following Davis was to be executed, Florida inmates sentenced to death could choose between lethal injection and the electric chair. Everyone executed in Florida following Davis thus far () has chosen lethal injection.\n\nProvenzano was originally scheduled to be the second person executed in Florida's newly built electric chair on Wednesday July 14, 1999, but the execution was stayed following the gruesome death of Allen Lee Davis (\"supra\") just six days before the scheduled July 14, 1999 execution date on Thursday, July 8, 1999. Provenzano’s eventual execution was carried out using a lethal injection protocol subsequently adopted by the Florida state legislature.\n\nProvenzano had spent almost 16 years on death row before being executed at Florida State Prison in Starke on June 21, 2000. He was the 48th murderer executed in Florida since that state's reintroduction of the death penalty in 1976.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11300809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11300809", "title": "UFO convention", "text": "UFO convention\n\nA UFO convention is a convention about UFOs that usually take place annually at hotels or convention centers. Historically, many would mainly feature contactees giving presentations about their experiences. Other topics, like UFO conspiracy theory, general conspiracy theory, and other paranormal phenomena are often discussed. However, some serious topical discussions and seminars are conducted at modern conventions.\n\nUFO conventions have been featured in various pop culture:\n\nTelevision\n"}
{"id": "24464731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24464731", "title": "Wu (shaman)", "text": "Wu (shaman)\n\nWu () are spirit mediums who have practiced divination, prayer, sacrifice, rainmaking, and healing in Chinese traditions dating back over 3,000 years.\n\nThe Chinese word \"wu\" \"spirit medium; shaman; shamaness; sorcerer; doctor; proper names\" was first recorded during the Shang Dynasty (ca. 1600–1046 BCE), when a \"wu\" could be of either sex. During the late Zhou Dynasty (1045-256 BCE) \"wu\" was used to specify \"female shaman; sorceress\" as opposed to \"xi\" 覡 \"male shaman; sorcerer\" (which first appears in the 4th century BCE \"Guoyu\"). Other sex-differentiated shaman names include \"nanwu\" 男巫 for \"male shaman; sorcerer; wizard\"; and \"nüwu\" 女巫, \"wunü\" 巫女, \"wupo\" 巫婆, and \"wuyu\" 巫嫗 for \"female shaman; sorceress; witch\".\n\n\"Wu\" is used in compounds like \"wugu\" 巫蠱 \"sorcery; cast harmful spells\", \"wushen\" 巫神 or \"shenwu\" 神巫 (with \"shen\" \"spirit; god\") \"wizard; sorcerer\", and \"wuxian\" 巫仙 (with \"xian\" \"immortal; alchemist\") \"immortal shaman\".\n\nThe word \"tongji\" 童乩 (lit. \"youth diviner\") \"shaman; spirit-medium\" is a near-synonym of \"wu\". Chinese uses phonetic transliteration to distinguish native \"wu\" from \"Siberian shaman\": \"saman\" 薩滿 or \"saman\" 薩蠻. \"Shaman\" is occasionally written with Chinese Buddhist transcriptions of Shramana \"wandering monk; ascetic\": \"shamen\" 沙門, \"sangmen\" 桑門, or \"sangmen\" 喪門.\n\nJoseph Needham (1954:134) suggests \"shaman\" was transliterated \"xianmen\" 羨門 in the name of Zou Yan's disciple Xianmen Gao 羨門高 (or Zigao 子高). He quotes the \"Shiji\" that Emperor Qin Shi Huang (r. 221–210 BCE), \"wandered about on the shore of the eastern sea, and offered sacrifices to the famous mountains and the great rivers and the eight Spirits; and searched for \"xian\" \"immortals\", [\"xianmen\"], and the like.\" Needham (1954:134) compares two later Chinese terms for \"shaman\": \"shanman\" 珊蛮, which described the Jurchen leader Wanyan Xiyin, and \"sizhu\" 司祝, which was used for imperial Manchu shamans during the Qing Dynasty.\n\n\"Shaman\" is the common English translation of Chinese \"wu\", but some scholars (de Groot 1910, Mair 1990:35) maintain that the Siberian \"shaman\" and Chinese \"wu\" were historically and culturally different shamanic traditions. Arthur Waley (1955:9) defines \"wu\" as \"spirit-intermediary\" and says, \"Indeed the functions of the Chinese \"wu\" were so like those of Siberian and Tunguz shamans that it is convenient (as has indeed been done by Far Eastern and European writers) to use shaman as a translation of \"wu\". In contrast, Schiffeler (1976:20) describes the \"untranslatableness\" of \"wu\", and prefers using the romanization \"\"wu\" instead of its contemporary English counterparts, \"witches,\" \"warlocks,\" or \"shamans\",\" which have misleading connotations. Taking \"wu\" to mean \"female shaman\", Edward H. Schafer translates it as (1951:153) \"shamaness\" and (1980:11) \"shamanka\". The transliteration-translation \"\"wu\" shaman\" or \"\"wu\"-shaman\" (Unschuld 1985:344) implies \"Chinese\" specifically and \"shamanism\" generally. \"Wu\", concludes Falkenhausen (1995:280), \"may be rendered as \"shaman\" or, perhaps, less controversially as \"spirit medium\".\" Paper (1995:85) criticizes \"the majority of scholars\" who use one word \"shaman\" to translate many Chinese terms (\"wu\" 巫, \"xi\" 覡, \"yi\" 毉, \"xian\" 仙, and \"zhu\" 祝), and writes, \"The general tendency to refer to all ecstatic religious functionaries as shamans blurs functional differences.\"\nThe Modern Standard Chinese pronunciation of 巫 is \"wu\", which phonologically descends from (ca. 6th century CE) Middle Chinese and (ca. 6th century BCE) Old Chinese. Compare these Middle and Old Chinese reconstructions of \"wu\" 巫: \"mu\" < *\"mwo\" (Bernhard Karlgren), \"mjuo\" < *\"\" (Zhou Fagao), *\"mjag\" (Li Fanggui), \"mju\" < *\"ma\" (Axel Schuessler), and *\"mag\" (Victor H. Mair) . Linguists disagree whether \"wu\" had an Old Chinese velar final \"-g\" or \"-ɣ\". This 巫 is pronounced \"mouh\" in Cantonese, \"vu\" in Vietnamese, \"mu\" in Korean, and \"fu\" or \"miko\" in Japanese.\n\nThe contemporary Chinese character for \"wu\" combines the graphic radicals \"gong\" \"work\" and \"ren\" \"person\" doubled (cf. \"cong\" ). This 巫 character developed from Seal script characters that depicted dancing shamans, which descend from Bronzeware script and Oracle bone script characters that resembled a cross potent.\n\nThe first Chinese dictionary of characters, the (121 CE) \"Shuowen Jiezi\" defines \"wu\" as \"zhu\" \"sacrifice; prayer master; invoker; priest\" (祝也 女能以舞降神者也 象从工 两人舞形, tr. Hopkins 1920:432) and analyzes the Seal graph, \"An Invoker. A woman who can serve the Invisible, and by posturing bring down the spirits. Depicts a person with two sleeves posturing.\" This Seal graph for \"wu\" is interpreted as showing \"the 工 work of two dancing figures set to each other – a shamanistic dance\" (Karlgren 1923:363) or \"two human figures facing some central object (possibly a pole, or in a tent-like enclosure?)\" (Schafer 1951:153).\n\nThis dictionary also includes a variant Great Seal script (called a \"guwen\" \"ancient script\") that elaborates \"wu\" 巫. Hopkins (1920:433) analyzes this \"guwen\" graph as \"gong\" 廾 \"two hands held upward\" at the bottom (like \"shi\" 筮's Seal graph) and two \"mouths\" with the \"sleeves\" on the sides; or (1920:424) \"jade\" because the \"Shuowen\" defines \"ling\" 靈 \"spiritual; divine\" as synonymous with \"wu\" and depicting (巫以玉事神, tr. Hopkins 1920:424), \"an inspired shaman serving the Spirits with jade.\"\n\nSchafer (1951:154) compares the Shang Dynasty oracle graphs for \"wu\" and \"nong\" \"play with; cause\" (written with 玉 \"jade\" over 廾 \"two hands\") that shows \"hands (of a shaman?) elevating a piece of jade (the rain-compelling mineral) inside an enclosure, possibly a tent. The Seal and modern form 巫 may well derive from this original, the hands becoming two figures, a convergence towards the dancer-type graph.\"\n\nTu Baikui 塗白奎 (quoted by Boileau 2002:354) believes the \"wu\" oracle character \"was composed of two pieces of jade and originally designated a tool of divination.\" Citing Li Xiaoding 李孝定 that \"gong\" 工 originally pictured a \"carpenter's square\", Allan (1991:77) argues that oracle inscriptions used \"wu\" 巫 interchangeably with \"fang\" \"square; side; place\" for sacrifices to the \"sifang\" 四方 \"four directions\".\n\nThis 巫 component is semantically significant in several characters:\n\nThe comprehensive \"Hanyu Da Zidian\" dictionary (1989 1:412) lists five meanings of \"wu\" 巫, translatable as:\nThe former two \"shaman\" and \"doctor\" \"wu\" meanings are discussed below in detail. The latter three \"proper name\" meanings of apply to mountains, places, and people. \"Wushan\" \"Wu Mountain\" is located near Chongqing in Sichuan Province. In Chinese, it is known through the four-character idiom \"Wushanyunyu\" 巫山雲雨 (with \"clouds and rain\") \"lovers' rendezvous; coitus\" (for example, see \"Rain Clouds over Wushan\"). In English, Wu Mountain is known as the archeological site where Wushan Man \"taxon of \"Homo erectus\"\" was discovered. Two nearby place names are \"Wuxi\" 巫溪 (Wu Stream) and \"Wu Gorge\" (Wuxia 巫峽), which is in the Yangtze River's Three Gorges region. The Chinese surname \"Wu\" goes back to the Shang Dynasty (for example, legendary Wu Xian 巫咸), but is comparatively uncommon today (but does appear, for example, in the name of recording artist Wu Qixian 巫啟賢 \"Eric Moo\"). Wuma 巫馬 (lit. \"shaman horse\") is both a Chinese compound surname (for example, the Confucian disciple Wuma Shi/Qi 巫馬施/期) and a name for \"horse shaman; equine veterinarian\" (for example, the \"Zhouli\" official).\n\nHistorical linguists hypothetically connect the etymology of Chinese \"wu\" \"spirit medium; shaman\" not only with Sino-Tibetan languages, but also with Mongolic, Austronesian, Mon–Khmer, Turkic, and Indo-Iranian language groups.\n\nBerthold Laufer (1917:370) proposed a relation between Mongolian \"bügä\" \"shaman\", Turkish \"bögü\" \"shaman\", \"Chinese \"bu\", \"wu\" (shaman), \"buk\", \"puk\" (to divine), and Tibetan \"aba\" (pronounced \"ba\", sorcerer)\".\n\nCoblin (1986:107) puts forward a Sino-Tibetan root **\"\" \"magician; sorcerer\" for Chinese \"wu\" < \"mju\" < *\"mjag\" 巫 \"magician; shaman\" and Written Tibetan\" 'ba'-po\" \"sorcerer\" and\" 'ba'-mo\" \"sorcereress\" (of the Bön religion).\n\nSchuessler (2007:516) notes Chinese \"xian\" < \"sjän\" < *\"sen\" 仙 \"transcendent; immortal; alchemist\" was probably borrowed as Written Tibetan \"gšen\" \"shaman\" and Thai < Proto-Tai *' \"doctor; sorcerer\". In addition, the Mon–Khmer and Proto-Western-Austronesian *' \"shaman\" may also be connected with \"wu\". Schuessler lists four proposed etymologies.\n\nFirst, \"wu\" could be the same word as \"wu\" 誣 \"to deceive\" (Karlgren 1923:363). Schuessler notes a Written Tibetan semantic parallel between \"magical power\" and \"deceive\": \"sprul-ba\" \"to juggle, make phantoms; miraculous power\" cognate with \"magical deception\".\nSecond, \"wu\" could be cognate with \"wu\" \"to dance\". Based on analysis of ancient characters, Hopkins (1920, 1945) proposed that \"wu\" 巫 \"shaman\", \"wu\" \"not have; without\", and \"wu\" 舞 \"dance\", \"can all be traced back to one primitive figure of a man displaying by the gestures of his arms and legs the thaumaturgic powers of his inspired personality\" (1945:5). Many Western Han Dynasty tombs contained jade plaques or pottery images showing \"long-sleeved dancers\" performing at funerals, who Erickson (1994:52-54) identifies as shamans, citing the \"Shuowen jiezi\" that early \"wu\" characters depicted a dancer's sleeves.\n\nThird, \"wu\" could also be cognate with \"mu\" 母 \"mother\" since \"wu\", as opposed to \"xi\" 覡, were typically female. Edward Schafer associates \"wu\" shamanism with fertility rituals.\nLinguistic facts reveal the intimate relationships between the word \"wu\" (*\"myu\") \"shamanka\" and such words as \"mother\", \"dance\", \"fertility\", \"egg\", and \"receptacle\". The ancient shamanka, then, was closely related to the fecund mother, to the fertile soil, to the receptive earth. The textual evidence supports these philological associations. In Shang and Chou times, shamankas were regularly employed in the interests of human and natural fertility, above all in bringing rain to parched farmlands – a responsibility they shared with ancient kings. They were musicians and dancers and oracles. (1973:10) \nJensen (1995:421) cites the Japanese sinologist Shirakawa Shizuka 白川静's hypothesis that the mother of Confucius was a \"wu\".\nFourth, \"wu\" could be a loanword from Iranian *\"maguš\" \"magi; magician\" (cf. Old Persian \"maguš\", Avestan \"mogu\"), meaning an \"able one; specialist in ritual\". Mair (1990) provides archaeological and linguistic evidence that Chinese \"wu\" < *\"mag\" 巫 \"shaman; witch, wizard; magician\" was a loanword from Old Persian *\"maguš\" \"magician; magi\".\n\nMair connects the nearly identical Chinese Bronze script for \"wu\" 巫 (above) and Western heraldic cross potent ☩, an ancient symbol of a \"magi\" or \"magician\", for which both words were ultimately borrowed from the same Iranian word.\n\nThe oldest written records of \"wu\" are Shang Dynasty oracle inscriptions and Zhou Dynasty classical texts. Boileau notes the disparity of these sources.\nConcerning the historical origin of the \"wu\", we may ask: were they a remnant of an earlier stage of the development of archaic Chinese civilization? The present state of the documentation does not allow such a conclusion for two reasons: first, the most abundant data about the \"wu\" are to be found in Eastern Zhou texts; and, second, these texts have little in common with the data originating directly from the Shang civilization; possible ancestors of the Eastern Zhou \"wu\" are the cripples and the females burned in sacrifice to bring about rain. They are mentioned in the oracular inscriptions but there is no mention of the Shang character \"wu\". Moreover, because of the scarcity of information, many of the activities of the Zhou \"wu\" cannot be traced back to the Shang period. Consequently, trying to correlate Zhou data with Neolithic cultures appears very difficult. (2002:376) \n\nShima's (1971:418) concordance of oracle inscriptions lists 58 occurrences of the character \"wu\": 32 in repeated compounds (most commonly 巫帝 \"\"wu\" spirit/sacrifice\" and 氐巫 \"bring the \"wu\") and 26 in miscellaneous contexts. Boileau (2002:354-5) differentiates four meanings of these oracular \"wu\":\nThe inscriptions about this living \"wu\", which is later identified as \"shaman\", reveal six characteristics:\nBased on this ancient but limited Shang-era oracular record, it is unclear how or whether the \"Wu\" spirit, sacrifice, person, and place were related.\n\nChinese \"wu\" 巫 \"shaman\" occurs over 300 times in the Chinese classics, which generally date from the late Zhou and early Han periods (6th-1st centuries BCE). The following examples are categorized by the common specializations of \"wu\"-shamans:\nmen and women possessed by spirits or gods, and consequently acting as seers and soothsayers, exorcists and physicians; invokers or conjurers bringing down gods at sacrifices, and performing other sacerdotal functions, occasionally indulging also in imprecation, and in sorcery with the help of spirits. (De Groot 1910 6:1212) \n\nA single text can describe many roles for \"wu\"-shamans. For instance, the \"Guoyu\" idealizes their origins in a Golden Age. It contains a story about King Zhao of Chu (r. 515-489 BCE) reading in the \"Shujing\" that the sage ruler Shun \"commissioned Chong and Li to cut the communication between heaven and earth\". He asks his minister to explain and is told.\nAnciently, men and spirits did not intermingle. At that time there were certain persons who were so perspicacious, single-minded, and reverential that their understanding enabled them to make meaningful collation of what lies above and below, and their insight to illumine what is distant and profound. Therefore the spirits would descend upon them. The possessors of such powers were, if men, called \"xi\" (shamans), and, if women, \"wu\" (shamanesses). It is they who supervised the positions of the spirits at the ceremonies, sacrificed to them, and otherwise handled religious matters. As a consequence, the spheres of the divine and the profane were kept distinct. The spirits sent down blessings on the people, and accepted from them their offerings. There were no natural calamities.\n\nThe belief that demonic possession caused disease and sickness is well documented in many cultures, including ancient China. The early practitioners of Chinese medicine historically changed from \"wu\" 巫 \"spirit-mediums; shamans\" who used divination, exorcism, and prayer to \"yi\" 毉 or 醫 \"doctors; physicians\" who used herbal medicine, moxibustion, and acupuncture.\n\nAs mentioned above, \"wu\" 巫 \"shaman\" was depicted in the ancient 毉 variant character for \"yi\" 醫 \"healer; doctor\". This archaic \"yi\" 毉, writes Carr (1992:117), \"ideographically depicted a shaman-doctor in the act of exorcistical healing with (矢 'arrows' in) a 医 'quiver', a 殳 'hand holding a lance', and a \"wu\" 巫 'shaman'.\" Unschuld believes this 毉 character depicts the type of \"wu\" practitioner described in the \"Liji\".\nSeveral times a year, and also during certain special occasions, such as the funeral of a prince, hordes of exorcists would race shrieking through the city streets, enter the courtyards and homes, thrusting their spears into the air, in an attempt to expel the evil creatures. Prisoners were dismembered outside all gates to the city, to serve both as a deterrent to the demons and as an indication of their fate should they be captured. (1985:37) \nReplacing the exorcistical 巫 \"shaman\" in 毉 with medicinal 酒 \"wine\" in \"yi\" 醫 \"healer; doctor\" signified, writes Schiffeler (1976:27), \"the practice of medicine was not any longer confined to the incantations of the \"wu\", but that it had been taken over (from an official standpoint) by the \"priest-physicians,\" who administered elixirs or wines as treatments for their patients.\"\n\n\"Wu\" and \"yi\" are compounded in the word \"wuyi\" 巫醫 \"shaman-doctor; shamans and doctors\", translated \"exorcising physician\" (De Groot 1910), \"sorcerer-physician\" (Schiffeler 1976), or \"physician-shaman\" (Mainfort 2004). Confucius quotes a \"Southern Saying\" that a good \"wuyi\" must have \"heng\" \"constancy; ancient tradition; continuation; perseverance; regularity; proper name (e.g., \"Yijing\" Hexagram 32)\". The (ca. 5th century BCE) \"Lunyu\" \"Confucian Analects\" and the (ca. 1st century BCE) \"Liji\" \"Record of Rites\" give different versions of the Southern Saying.\n\nFirst, the \"Lunyu\" quotes Confucius to mention the saying and refer to the Heng Hexagram:\nThe Master said, The men of the south have a saying, Without stability a man will not even make a good shaman or witch-doctor. Well said! Of the maxim; if you do not stabilize an act of \"te\" 德, you will get evil by it (instead of good), the Master said, They (i.e. soothsayers) do not simply read the omens. (13/22, tr. Waley 1938:77) \nConfucius refers to a \"Yijing\" line interpretation of the Heng \"Duration\" Hexagram (tr. Wilhelm 1967:127-9): \"Nine in the third place means: He who does not give duration to his character meets with disgrace.\" In Waley's earlier article about the \"Yijing\", he translated \"If you do not stabilize your \"virtue,\" Disgrace will overtake you\", and quoted the \"Lunyu\".\n\"The people of the south have a saying, 'It takes \"heng\" to make even a soothsayer or medicine-man.' It's quite true. 'If you do not stabilize your virtue, disgrace will overtake you'.\" Confucius adds 不占而已矣, which has completely baffled his interpreters. Surely the meaning is 'It is not enough merely to get an omen,' one must also \"heng\" 'stabilize it'. And if such a rule applies even to inferior arts like those of the diviner and medicine-man, Confucius asks, how much the more does it apply to the seeker after [\"de\"] in the moral sense? Surely he too must 'make constant' his initial striving! (1933:136-137)\n\nSecond, the \"Liji\" quotes Confucius to elaborate upon the Southern Saying.\nThe Master said, 'The people of the south have a saying that \"A man without constancy cannot be a diviner either with the tortoise-shell or the stalks.\" This was probably a saying handed down from antiquity. If such a man cannot know the tortoise-shell and stalks, how much less can he know other men? It is said in the \"Book of Poetry\" (II, v, ode 1, 3) \"Our tortoise-shells are wearied out, And will not tell us anything about the plans.\" The Charge to [Yue] says ([\"Shujing\"], IV, VIII, sect. 2, 5, 11), \"Dignities should not be conferred on men of evil practices. (If they be), how can the people set themselves to correct their ways? If this be sought merely by sacrifices, it will be disrespectful (to the spirits). When affairs come to be troublesome, there ensues disorder; when the spirits are served so, difficulties ensue.\" 'It is said in the [\"Yijing\"], \"When one does not continuously maintain his virtue, some will impute it to him as a disgrace; (in the position indicated in the Hexagram.) 'When one does maintain his virtue continuously (in the other position indicated), this will be fortunate in a wife, but in a husband evil'.\" (55, tr. Legge 1885 2:363-364) \nThis \"Liji\" version makes five changes from the \"Lunyu\" (Carr 1992:121-122). (1) It writes \"bushi\" 卜筮 \"diviner\" instead of \"wuyi\" 巫醫 \"shaman-doctor\", compounding \"bu\" \"divine by bone or shell, scapulimancy or plastromancy\" and \"shi\" (also with \"shaman\") \"divine by milfoil stalks, cleromancy or sortilege\". (2) Instead of quoting Confucius to remark \"well said!\"; he describes the southern proverb as \"probably a saying handed down from antiquity\" and rhetorically questions the efficacy of divination. (3) The \"Liji\" correctly quotes the \"Shijing\" (195, tr. Karlgren 1950:142) criticizing royal diviners: \"Our tortoises are (satiated =) weary, they do not tell us the (proper) plans.\" (4) It quotes the \"Charge to Yue\" 說命 (traditionally attributed to Shang king Wu Ding) differently from the fabricated \"Guwen\" \"Old Texts\" \"Shujing\" \"Classic of History\" chapter with this name.\nDignities may not be conferred on man of evil practices, but only on men of worth. Anxious thought about what will be good should precede your movements. Your movements also should have respect to the time for them. … Officiousness in sacrifices is called irreverence; ceremonies when burdensome lead to disorder. To serve the spirits in this way is difficult. (17, tr. Legge 1865:256-8)\n(5) It cites an additional \"Yijing\" Hexagram 32 line (tr. Wilhelm 1967:129) that gender determines the auspiciousness of \"heng\". \"Six in the fifth place means: Giving duration to one's character through perseverance. This is good fortune for a woman, misfortune for a man.\"\n\nThe mytho-geography \"Shanhaijing\" \"Classic of Mountains and Seas\" associates \"wu\"-shamans with medicinal herbs.\nEast of the Openbright there are Shaman Robust, Shaman Pushaway, Shaman Sunny, Shaman Shoe, Shaman Every, and Shaman Aide. They are all on each side of the corpse of Notch Flaw and they hold the neverdie drug to ward off decay. (tr. Birrell 2000:141) \nThere is Mount Divinepower. This is where Shaman Whole, Shaman Reach, Shaman Share, Shaman Robust, Shaman Motherinlaw, Shaman Real, Shaman Rite, Shaman Pushaway, ShamanTakeleave, and Shaman Birdnet ascend to the sky and come down from Mount Divinepower. This is where the hundred drugs are to be found. (tr. Birrell 2000:174) \n\"Shaman Whole\" translates Wu Xian 巫咸 below.\n\nBoileau contrasts Siberian and Chinese shamanic medicines.\nConcerning healing, a comparison of the \"wu\" and the Siberian shaman shows a big difference: in Siberia, the shaman is also in charge of cures and healing, but he does this by identifying the spirit responsible for the disease and negotiates the proper way to appease him (or her), for example by offering a sacrifice or food on a regular basis. In archaic China, this role is performed through sacrifice: exorcism by the \"wu\" does not seem to result in a sacrifice but is aimed purely and simply at expelling the evil spirit. (2002:361) \n\n\"Wu\" anciently served as intermediaries with nature spirits believed to control rainfall and flooding. During a drought, \"wu\"-shamans would perform the \"yu\" \"sacrificial rain dance ceremony\". If that failed, both \"wu\" and \"wang\" \"cripple; lame person; emaciated person\" engaged in \"ritual exposure\" (Schafer 1951) rainmaking techniques based upon homeopathic or sympathetic magic. As Unschuld (1985:33-34) explains, \"Shamans had to carry out an exhausting dance within a ring of fire until, sweating profusely, the falling drops of perspirations produced the desired rain.\" These \"wu\" and \"wang\" procedures were called \"pu\" / \"expose to open air/sun\", \"fen\" \"burn; set on fire\", and \"pulu\" \"reveal; lay bare; expose to open air/sun\".\n\nFor the year 639 BCE, the \"Chunqiu\" records, \"In summer, there was a great drought\" in Lu, and the \"Zuozhuan\" notes a discussion about \"fen wu wang\" 焚巫尪:\nThe duke (Xi) wanted to burn a \"wu\" and a cripple at the stake. Zang Wenzhong 臧文仲 said: this is no preparation for the drought. Repair the city walls, limit your food, be economic in your consumption, be parsimonious and advise (people) to share (the food), this is what must be done. What use would be \"wu\" and cripple? If Heaven wanted to have them killed, why were they born at all? If they (the cripple and the \"wu\") could produce drought, burning them would augment very much (the disaster). (tr. Boileau 2002:363, cf. Legge 1872:180) \nThe duke followed this advice, and subsequently \"scarcity was not very great\".\n\nThe \"Liji\" uses the words \"puwang\" 暴尪 and \"puwu\" 暴巫 to describe a similar rainmaking ritual during the reign (407-375 BCE) of Duke Mu 穆公 of Lu.\nThere was a drought during the year. Duke Mu called on Xianzi and asked him about the reason for this. He said: 'Heaven has not (given us) rain in a long time. I want to expose to the sun a cripple and what about that?' (Xianzi) said: 'Heaven has not (given us) rain in a long time but to expose to the sun the crippled son of somebody, that would be cruel. No, this cannot be allowed.' (the duke said): 'Well, then I want to expose to the sun a \"wu\" and what about that?' (Xianzi) answered: 'Heaven has not (given us) rain in a long time but to put one's hope on an ignorant woman and offer her to pray (for rain), no, this is too far (from reason).' (tr. Boileau 2002:364, cf. Legge 1885 1:201) \nCommentators interpret the \"wu\" as a female shaman and the \"wang\" as a male cripple.\n\nDe Groot connects the \"Zuozhuan\" and \"Liji\" stories about ritually burning \"wu\".\nThese two narratives evidently are different readings of one, and may both be inventions; nevertheless they have their value as sketches of ancient idea and custom. Those 'infirm or unsound' \"wang\" were non-descript individuals, evidently placed somewhat on a line with the \"wu\"; perhaps they were queer hags or beldams, deformed beings, idiotic or crazy, or nervously affected to a very high degree, whose strange demeanour was ascribed to possession. (1910 6:1194) \n\nOneiromancy or dream interpretation was one type of divination performed by \"wu\" 巫. The \"Zuozhuan\" records two stories about \"wu\" interpreting the guilty dreams of murderers.\n\nFirst, in 581 BCE the lord of Jin, who had slain two officers from the Zhao (趙) family, had a nightmare about their ancestral spirit, and called upon an unnamed \"wu\" \"shaman\" from Sangtian 桑田 and a \"yi\" \"doctor\" named Huan 緩 from Qin.\nThe marquis of [Jin] saw in a dream a great demon with disheveled hair reaching to the ground, which beat its breast, and leaped up, saying: \"You have slain my descendants unrighteously, and I have presented my request to the High God in consequence.\" It then broke the great gate (of the palace), advanced to the gate of the State chamber, and entered. The duke was afraid and went into a side-chamber, the door of which it also broke. The duke then awoke, and called the witch of [Sangtian], who told him everything which he had dreamt. \"What will be the issue?\" asked the duke. \"You will not taste the new wheat,\" she replied. <br>\nAfter this, the duke became very ill, and asked the services of a physician from [Qin], the earl of which sent the physician [Huan] to do what he could for him. Before he came, the duke dreamt that his disease turned into two boys, who said, \"That is a skilful physician; it is to be feared he will hurt us; how shall we get out of his way?\" Then one of them said: \"If we take our place above the heart and below the throat, what can he do to us?\" When the physician arrived, he said, \"Nothing can be done for this disease. Its seat is above the heart and below the throat. If I assail it (with medicine), it will be of no use; if I attempt to puncture it, it cannot be reached. Nothing can be done for it.\" The duke said, \"He is a skilful physician\", gave him large gifts, and send him back to [Qin].<br>\nIn the sixth month, on the day [bingwu], the marquis wished to taste the new wheat, and made the superintendent of his fields present some. While the baker was getting it ready, [the marquis] called the witch of [Sangtian], showed her the wheat and put her to death. As the marquis was about to taste the wheat, he felt it necessary to go to the privy, into which he fell, and so died. One of the servants that waited on him had dreamt in the morning that he carried the marquis on his back up to heaven. The same at mid-day carried him on his back out from the privy, and was afterwards buried alive with him. (tr. Legge 1872:374, note \"witch\" translates \"wu\") \nCommentators have attempted to explain why the \"wu\" merely interpreted the duke's dream but did not perform a healing ritual or exorcism, and why the duke waited until the prediction had failed before ordering the execution. Boileau (2002:368) suggests the \"wu\" was executed in presumed responsibility for the Zhao ancestral spirit's attack.\n\nSecond, in 552 BCE a \"wu\" named Gao 皋 both appears in and divines about a dream of Zhongxing Xianzi. After conspiring in the murder of Duke Li of Jin, Zhongxing dreams that the duke's spirit gets revenge.\nIn autumn, the marquis of [Jin] invaded our northern border. [Zhongxing Xianzi] prepared to invade [Qi]. (Just then), he dreamt that he was maintaining a suit with duke [Li], in which the case was going against him, when the duke struck him with a [\"ge\"] on his head, which fell down before him. He took his head up, put it on his shoulders, and ran off, when he saw the wizard [Gao] of [Gengyang]. A day or two after, it happened that he did see this [Gao] on the road, and told him his dream, and the wizard, who had had the same dream, said to him: \"Your death is to happen about this time; but if you have business in the east, you will there be successful [first]\". Xianzi accepted this interpretation. (tr. Legge 1872:478, note \"wizard\" translates \"wu\") \nBoileau questions:\nwhy wasn't the \"wu\" asked by Zhongxin to expel the spirit of the duke? Perhaps because the spirit went through him to curse the officer. Could it be that the \"wu\" was involved (his involvement is extremely strong in this affair) in a kind of deal, or is it simply that the \"wu\" was aware of two different matters concerning the officer, only one connected to the dream? (2002:369) \n\nAccording to these two stories, \"wu\" were feared and considered dangerous. This attitude is also evident in a \"Zhuangzi\" story about the \"shenwu\" 神巫 \"spirit/god shaman\" Jixian 季咸 from Zheng.\nIn [Zheng], there was a shaman of the gods named [Jixian]. He could tell whether men would live or die, survive or perish, be fortunate or unfortunate, live a long time or die young, and he would predict the year, month, week, and day as though he were a god himself. When the people of [Zheng] saw him, they all ran out of his way. (tr. Watson 1968:95) \n\"As soothsayers.\" writes de Groot (1910 6:1195), \"the \"wu\" in ancient China no doubt held a place of great importance.\"\n\nSinological controversies have arisen over the political importance of \"wu\" 巫 in ancient China. Some scholars (e.g., Eliade 1964 and Chang 1983) believe Chinese \"wu\" used \"techniques of ecstasy\" like shamans elsewhere; others (e.g., Keightley 1983) believe \"wu\" were \"ritual bureaucrats\" or \"moral metaphysicians\" who did not engage in shamanistic practices.\n\nChen Mengjia wrote a seminal article (1936) that proposed Shang kings were \"wu\"-shamans.\nIn the oracle bone inscriptions are often encountered inscriptions stating that the king divined or that the king inquired in connections with wind- or rain-storms, rituals, conquests, or hunts. There are also statements that \"the king made the prognostication that …,\" pertaining to weather, the border regions, or misfortunes and diseases; the only prognosticator ever recorded in the oracle bone inscriptions was the king ... There are, in addition, inscriptions describing the king dancing to pray for rain and the king prognosticating about a dream. All of these were activities of both king and shaman, which means in effect that the king was a shaman. (1936:535, tr. Chang 1983:46-47) \nChen's shaman-king hypothesis was supported by Kwang-chih Chang who cited the \"Guoyu\" story about Shao Hao severing heaven-earth communication (above).\nThis myth is the most important textual reference to shamanism in ancient China, and it provides the crucial clue to understanding the central role of shamanism in ancient Chinese politics. Heaven is where all the wisdom of human affairs lies. … Access to that wisdom was, of course, requisite for political authority. In the past, \"everybody\" had had that access through the shamans. Since heaven had been severed from earth, only those who controlled that access had the wisdom – hence the authority – to rule. Shamans, therefore, were a crucial part of every state court; in fact, scholars of ancient China agree that the king himself was actually head shaman. (1983:45) \nSome modern scholars disagree. For instance, Boileau (2002:350) calls Chen's hypothesis \"somewhat antiquated being based more on an a priori approach than on history\" and says,\nIn the case of the relationship between \"wu\" and \"wang\" [king], Chen Mengjia did not pay sufficient attention to what the king was able to do as a king, that is to say, to the parts of the king's activities in which the \"wu\" was not involved, for example, political leadership as such, or warfare. The process of recognition must also be taken into account: it is probable that the \"wu\" was chosen or acknowledged as such according to different criteria to those adopted for the king. Chen's concept of the king as the head \"wu\" was influenced by Frazer's theories about the origin of political power: for Frazer the king was originally a powerful sorcerer. (2002:351) \n\nThe \"Shujing\" \"Classic of History\" lists Wu Xian 巫咸 and Wu Xian 巫賢 as capable administrators of the Shang royal household. The Duke of Zhou tells Prince Shao 召 that:\nI have heard that of ancient time, when King Tang had received the favoring decree, he had with him Yi Yin, making his virtue like that of great Heaven. Tai Jia, again, had Bao Heng. Tai Wu had Yi Zhi and Chen Hu, through whom his virtue was made to affect God; he had also [巫咸] Wu Xian, who regulated the royal house; Zu Yi had [巫賢] Wu Xian. Wu Ding had Gan Pan. These ministers carried out their principles and effected their arrangements, preserving and regulating the empire of [Shang], so that, while its ceremonies lasted, those sovereigns, though deceased, were assessors to Heaven, while it extended over many years. (tr. Legge 1865:206, n.b., names standardized to pinyin) \nAccording to Boileau,\nIn some texts, Wu Xian senior is described as being in charge of the divination using [\"shi\" 筮] achilea. He was apparently made a high god in the kingdom of Qin 秦 during the Warring States period. The Tang subcommentary interprets the character \"wu\" of Wu Xian father and son as being a cognomen, the name of the clan from which the two Xian came. It is possible that in fact the text referred to two Shang ministers, father and son, coming from the same eponymous territory \"wu\". Perhaps, later, the name (\"wu\" 巫) of these two ministers has been confused with the character \"wu\" (巫) as employed in other received texts. (2002:358) \n\n\"Wu\"-shamans participated in court scandals and dynastic rivalries under Emperor Wu of Han (r. 141-87 BCE), particularly regarding the crime of \"wugu\" 巫蠱 (with \"gu\" \"venom-based poison\") \"sorcery; casting harmful spells\". In 130 BCE, Empress Chen Jiao was convicted of using shamans from Yue to conduct \"wugu\" magic. She \"was dismissed from her position and a total of 300 persons who were involved in the case were executed\" (tr. Loewe 1970:169), their heads were cut off and exposed on stakes. In 91 BCE, an attempted coup against crown prince Liu Ju involved accusations of practicing \"wugu\", and subsequently \"no less than nine long months of bloody terrorism, ending in a tremendous slaughter, cost some tens of thousands their lives!\" (tr. Groot 1910 5:836).\n\nEver since Emperor Wu of Han established Confucianism as the state religion, the ruling classes have shown increasing prejudice against shamanism (de Groot 1910:1233-42, Waley 1955:11-12). Some modern writers view the traditional Confucianist disdain for female shamans as sexism. Schafer wrote:\nIn the opinion of the writer, the Chou ruling class was particularly hostile to women in government, and regarded the ancient fertility rites as impure. This anti-female tendency was even more marked in the state of Lu, where Confucius approved of the official rain-ceremony in which men alone participated. There was, within ancient China, a heterogeneity of culture areas, with female shamans favored in some, males in others. The \"licentiousness\" of the ceremonies of such a state as Cheng (doubtless preserving the ancient Shang traditions and customs) was a byword among Confucian moralists. Confucius' state seems on the other hand to have taken the \"respectable\" attitude that the sexes should not mingle in the dance, and that men were the legitimate performers of the fertility rites. The general practice of the later Chou period, or at least the semi-idealized picture given of the rites of that time in such books as the \"Chou li\", apparently prescribed a division of magical functions between men and women. The former generally play the role of exorcists, the latter of petitioners. This is probably related to the metaphysical belief that women, embodying the principle \"yin\", were akin to the spirits, whereas men, exemplifying the element \"yang\", were naturally hostile to them. (1951:158) \nAccepting the tradition that Chinese shamans were women (i.e., \"wu\" 巫 \"shamaness\" as opposed to \"xi\" 覡 \"shaman\"), Kagan believes:\nOne of the main themes in Chinese history is the unsuccessful attempt by the male Confucian orthodoxy to strip women of their public and sacred powers and to limit them to a role of service ... Confucianists reasserted daily their claim to power and authority through the promotion of the phallic ancestor cult which denied women religious representation and excluded them from the governmental examination system which was the path to office, prestige, and status. (1980:3-4) \nIn addition, Unschuld (1980:125-128) refers to a \"Confucian medicine\" based upon systematic correspondences and the idea that illnesses are caused by excesses (rather than demons).\n\nThe \"Zhouli\" provides detailed information about the roles of \"wu\"-shamans. It lists (Falkenhausen 1995:282), \"Spirit Mediums as officials on the payroll of the Zhou Ministry of Rites (\"Liguan\" 禮官, or Ministry of Spring, \"Chun guan\" 春官).\" This text differentiates three offices: the Siwu 司巫 \"Manager/Director of Shamans\", Nanwu 男巫 \"Male Shamans\", and \"Nüwu\" 女巫 \"Female Shamans\".\n\nThe managerial Siwu, who was of \"Shi\" 士 \"Gentleman; Yeoman\" feudal rank, yet was not a \"wu\", supervised \"the many \"wu\"\".\nThe Managers of the Spirit Mediums are in charge of the policies and orders issued to the many Spirit Mediums. When the country suffers a great drought, they lead the Spirit Mediums in dancing the rain-making ritual (\"yu\" 雩). When the country suffers a great calamity, they lead the Spirit Mediums in enacting the long-standing practices of Spirit Mediums (\"wuheng\" 巫恆). At official sacrifices, they [handle] the ancestral tablets in their receptacles, the cloth on which the spirits walk, and the box containing the reeds [for presenting the sacrificial foodstuffs]. In all official sacrificial services, they guard the place where the offerings are buried. In all funerary services, they are in charge of the rituals by which the Spirit Mediums make [the spirits] descend (\"jiang\" 降). (tr. von Falkenhausen 1995:285, cf. de Groot 1910 6:1189-1190) \n\nThe Nanwu and Nüwu have different shamanic specializations, especially regarding inauspicious events like sickness, death, and natural disaster.\nThe Male Spirit Mediums are in charge of the \"si\" 祀 and \"yan\" 衍 Sacrifices to the Deities of the Mountains and Rivers. They receive the honorific titles [of the deities], which they proclaim into the [four] directions, holding reeds. In the winter, in the great temple hall, they offer [or: shoot arrows] without a fixed direction and without counting the number. In the spring, they make proclamations and issue bans so as to remove sickness and disease. When the king offers condolence, they together with the invocators precede him. <br>\nThe Female Mediums are in charge of anointing and ablutions at the exorcisms that are held at regular times throughout the year. When there is a drought or scorching heat, they dance in the rain-making ritual (\"yu\"). When the queen offers condolence, they together with the invocators precede her. In all great calamities of the state, they pray, singing and wailing. (26, tr. von Falkenhausen 1995:290, cf. de Groot 1910 6:1189) \n\nVon Falkenhausen concludes:\nIf we are to generalize from the above enumeration, we find that the Spirit Mediums' principal functions are tied up with averting evil and pollution. They are especially active under circumstances of inauspiciousness and distress. In case of droughts and calamities, they directly address the supernatural powers of Heaven and Earth. Moreover, they are experts in dealing with frightful, dangerous ghosts (the ghosts of the defunct at the time of the funeral, the evil spirits at the exorcism, and the spirits of disease) and harmful substances (unburied dead bodies during visits of condolence and all manner of impure things at the lustration festival). (1995:293)\n\nThe poetry anthology \"Chu Ci\", especially its older pieces, is largely characterized by its shamanic content and style, as explicated to some extent by sinologist David Hawkes.(1985[2011]:\"passim\") Among other points of interest are the intersection of Shamanic traditions and mythology/folk religion in the earlier textual material, such as \"Tianwen\" (possibly based on even more ancient shamanic temple murals), the whole question of the interpretation of the 11 verses of the \"Jiu Ge\" (\"Nine Songs\") as the libretto of a shamanic dramatic performance, the motif of shamanic spirit flight from \"Li Sao\" through subsequent pieces, the evidence of possible regional variations in wu shamanism between Chu, Wei, Qi, and other states (or shamanic colleges associated with those regions), and the suggestion that some of the newer textual material was modified to please Han Wudi, by Liu An, the Prince of Huainan, or his circle. The \"Chu Ci\" contents have traditionally been chronologically divided into an older, pre-Han dynasty group, and those written during the Han Dynasty. Of the traditionally-considered to be the older works (omitting the mostly prose narratives, \"Bu Ju\" and \"Yu Fu\") David Hawkes considers the following sections to be \"functional, explicitly shamanistic\": \"Jiu Ge\", \"Tian Wen\", and the two shamanic summons for the soul, \"The Great Summons\" and \"Summons of the Soul\".(1985[2011]:38) Regarding the other, older pieces he considers that \"shamanism, if there is any\" to be an incidental poetic device, particularly in the form of descriptions of the shamanic spirit journey.\n\nThe mainstream of Chinese literacy and literature is associated with the shell and bone oracular inscriptions from recovered archeological artifacts from the Shang dynasty and with the literary works of the Western Zhou dynasty, which include the classic Confucian works. Both are associated with the northern Chinese areas. South of the traditional Shang and Zhou areas was the land (and water) of Chu. Politically and to some extent culturally distinct from the Zhou dynasty and its later 6 devolved hegemonic states, Chu was the original source and inspiration for the poems anthologized during the Han dynasty under the title \"Chu Ci\", literally meaning something like \"the literary material of Chu\".(Hawkes:16-17 and 28-29) Despite the tendency of Confucian-oriented government officials to suppress wu shamanic beliefs and practice, in the general area of Chinese culture, the force of colonial conservatism and the poetic voice of Qu Yuan and other poets combined to contribute an established literary tradition heavily influenced by wu shamanism to posterity.(Hawkes:19-20) Shamanic practices as described anthropologically are generally paralleled by descriptions of wu practices as found in the \"Chu Ci\", and in Chinese mythology more generally.(Hawkes:42-47)\n\nThe signature poem of the \"Chu Ci\" is the poem \"Li Sao\". By China's \"first poet\", Qu Yuan, a major literary device of the poem is the shamanic spirit journey. \"Yuan You\", literally \"The Far-off Journey\" features shamanic spirit flight as a literary device, as does \"Jiu Bian\", as part of its climactic ending. In the \"Li Sao\", two individual shaman are specified, Ling Fen (靈氛) and Wu Xian (巫咸).(Hawkes:45, note 9) This Wu Xian may or may not be the same as the (one or more) historical person(s) named Wu Xian. Hawkes suggests an equation of the word \"ling\" in the Chu dialect with the word \"wu\".(46 and 84)\n\nThe \"Heavenly Questions\" (literally \"Questioning Heaven\") is one of the ancient repositories of Chinese myth and a major cultural legacy. Propounded as a series of questions, the poem provides incite and provokes questions about the role of wu shaman practitioners in society and history.\n\nThe \"Jiu Ge\" may be read as the lyrical preservation of a shamanic dramatic performance. Apparently typical of at least one variety of shamanism of the Chu area of the Yangzi River basin, the text exhibits a marked degree of eroticism in connection with shamanic invocations.\n\nSummoning the soul (\"hun\") of the possibly dead was a feature of ancient culture. The 2 \"Chu Ci\" pieces of this type may be authentic transcriptions of such a process.\n\nVarious individual wu shaman are alluded to in the \"Chu Ci\". In some cases the binomial nomenclature is unclear, referring perhaps to one or two persons; for example, in the case of Peng Xian, who appears likely to represent Wu Peng and Wu Xian,(Hawkes:70 and 84-86) which is a common type of morphological construction in Classical Chinese poetry. David Hawkes refers to some wu shaman as \"Shaman Ancestors\". Additionally, the distinction between humans and transcendent divinities tends not to be explicit in the received \"Chu Ci\" text. In some cases, the individual wu shaman are known from other sources, such as the \"Shanhaijing\" (\"Classic of Mountains and Seas\"). The name of some individual shaman includes \"Wu\" (巫) in the normal position of the family surname, for example, in the case of Wu Yang (巫陽, \"Shaman Bright\"). Wu Yang is the major speaker in \"Zhao Hun\"/\"Summons for the Soul\". He also appears in \"Shanhaijing\" together with Wu Peng (巫彭): 6 wu shaman are depicted together reviving a corpse, with Wu Peng holding the Herb of Immortality.(Hawkes:45 and 230-231)\n\nThe ancient Chinese traditions of \"wu\"-shamans continue in the contemporary cultures of China, Hong Kong, Singapore, and Taiwan. Popular practices include clairvoyance, fortune telling, exorcism, invocation, and prayer.\n\nScholars have studied many aspects of modern \"wu\". De Groot (1910 6:1243-1268) provided descriptions and pictures of hereditary shamans in Fujian, called \"saigong\" (pinyin \"shigong\") 師公. Paper (1999) analyzed \"tongji\" mediumistic activities in the Taiwanese village of Bao'an 保安. Noll (2004) documented Chuonnasuan (1927–2000), the last shaman of the Oroqen in northeast China.\n\nJordan Paper summarizes the present-day shaman's religious significance.\nMediums, frequently associated with local temples … are ubiquitous aspects of popular Chinese religion. They are (or at least were into the mid-twentieth century) common from far north in Manchuria to the extreme south of Hainan and Guangtung, and from the eastern island of Taiwan to Tibet in China's far west. (1995:117-8) \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41511534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41511534", "title": "Yazdin", "text": "Yazdin\n\nYazdin (died 627) was an influential Iranian aristocrat, who served as the financial minister of the Sasanian king Khosrow II (r. 590-628).\n\nYazdin was a native of Kirkuk in the Garamig ud Nodardashiragan province; he belonged to a high-class Iranian family (although of original Aramean descent) which practiced Zoroastrianism. He was the son a certain Mihryar, and had a brother named Dadgushnasp. Yazdin's mother was the daughter of the governor (\"marzban\") of Nisibis. When Yazdin grew up, he was sent to a Zoroastrian school, which he, however, disliked and fled from. He shortly arrived to his foster parents who received him warmly. He was later found by his father, who, after having beaten him, sent him back to the school. Yazdin fled once again, and was in the end allowed to stay with his foster parents, while his brother Dadgushnasp would go to school instead. Yazdin visited the church several times with his foster parents, but in the end fled from them and got baptized.\n\nDue to his aristocratic origin, Yazdin had much land under his possession, mostly near Kirkuk and Margha. He is later mentioned as serving as the financial minister of king Khosrow II. Because Yazdin was a Christian and member of the Church of the East, he did everything, to improve the position of his coreligionists. Yazdin built numerous churches and enjoyed the fullest confidence of Khosrow.\n\nDuring the Byzantine–Sasanian War of 602–628, a certain Yazden was appointed as the governor of Armenia. This Yazden may have been the same person as Yazdin. In 614, the Sasanians seized the True Cross and brought it to the capital Ctesiphon, where Yazdin took care of the cross and had a celebration along with the other Christians of the Empire. He then sent a piece of the cross to Mount Izla, a place near Nisibis.\n\nYazdin also had rivals at the Sasanian court of Ctesiphon, which included Khosrow's wife Shirin, and the royal physician Gabriel of Sinjar, who unlike him, were both Miaphysite Christians, and were attempting to push back the influence of the Nestorian Christians in favor of their church.\n\nHowever, in 624, the Byzantine emperor Heraclius turned the tide of war against the Sasanians, and advanced into northern Adurbadagan, and by 627, he was close to Ctesiphon. These Sasanian failures made Khosrow so angry that he had several of his officers, including Yazdin, executed. Yazdin had a son named Shamta, who is said to have killed Khosrow. However, according to other sources, it was the Iranian aristocrat Mihr Hormozd, who had Khosrow killed.\n\n"}
