{"id": "954883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=954883", "title": "A Saintly Switch", "text": "A Saintly Switch\n\nA Saintly Switch is a 1999 American made-for-television comedy film directed by Peter Bogdanovich and produced by Walt Disney Entertainment, first exhibited on ABC's \"The Wonderful World of Disney\". The plot revolves around an aging NFL quarterback and his stay-at-home wife switching bodies. The resultant comedy focuses on family values as she has to handle the highly-physical job while he has to handle art classes, bonding with his children, and morning sickness.\n\nAt the film's opening, Dan and Sara Anderson are experiencing marital fallout. According to their preteen children, Clark and Annette, they both underestimate each other's role in the family. When a new position with the Saints takes them to New Orleans, they purchase a dilapidated mansion. Upon arrival, they start fighting worse than ever. The children go up into the attic and discover a book of spells, finding out from their babysitter, the resident voodoo sorceress, that this house once belonged to the most powerful sorceress in the area. Desperate to save their parents marriage, they cast a spell which inadvertently switches their parents' bodies.\n\nThe next morning, Dan wakes up in Sara's body, and she vice versa. They try to act like nothing has changed, which means they must do each other's jobs. After managing for about a day or two, still trying to keep the children (who already know what's going on) from finding out, Dan (in Sara's body) goes to the doctor because he (she) is feeling sick and discovers that he (she) is pregnant. The rest of the movie continues in similar fashion: as they live life in the other's body they grow to understand one another.\n\nThanks to the secret coaching she is receiving from Dan, Sara starts to get better at football. Her nurturing nature leads to her/him implementing the sort of \"reward\" list and tactics usually expected in a classroom. Surprisingly, this encourages the team so much that they start winning match after match. On the other hand, Dan is learning how to keep house and, though still rather uncomfortable, is rather enjoying his/her pregnancy and getting closer to the children in the process. As time passes, both parents really begin to understand what the other was complaining about, commenting on this to one another and wondering if they'll ever switch back or if they'll be stuck in each other's bodies for the rest of their lives.\n\nWhen the pregnancy is about nine months along, the Saints come to the final game against the Redskins. If they win, Dan and the team go to the Super Bowl, and Dan would never have to worry about money or moving around again. Exhilarated, he and Sara embrace each other at the table and shout jubilantly at each other. This is heard by the children, who use this opportunity to finally confess all to their parents. They try to undo the spell, but fail. They call the babysitter, who translates that the spell will reverse once its purpose is complete: when their parents truly understand each other, they will be restored to their rightful bodies. However, there is a warning clause that implies that unless they manage to undo the spell before the birth of the baby, it will be permanent.\n\nAfter the babysitter leaves and the Andersons go to bed, Dan and Sara apologize to each other, then kiss, which turns out to be the necessary act of understanding. The next day is the big match, and Dan's teammates instantly notice the difference in his behavior. While Sara goes into labor, his attempts to motivate his teammates with insults causes them to start fumbling. Clark reminds him to forget his old methods of motivation and revert to the \"touchy-feely stuff\" Sara used. In the hospital, Sara is puffing, panting, swearing, and ordering the nurses to bring her a TV. Around the time Dan wins the championship game, she finally gives in to nature and gives birth to a son. Later on, Dan is offered another job, but turns it down for his family.\n\n\nThe film was dedicated to the memory of Dave Waymer by its writer and producer, Sally Hampton, whose experience as an NFL wife (Hampton and Waymer were married in 1981) was the inspiration behind the story. Hampton said she had loosely based the lead characters on their personalities and, ironically, the lead actor, David Alan Grier and Waymer share the same July 1 birthday and Hampton, was born late afternoon of July 29 making her birthday only hours away from the July 30 birthdays of lead actress, Vivica A. Fox and director Peter Bogdanovich. Adding to these coincidences, principal photography of the film began on June 29, 1998, what would have been the 17th wedding anniversary of Hampton's marriage to Waymer\n\n\"Variety\" gave the film a positive review. Whilst noting plot similarities to \"Freaky Friday\", \"Trading Places\" and \"The Parent Trap\", as well as character stereotypes, Ray Richmond stated \"there is so much to like about the genuinely canny show that all of the other stuff sounds nitpicky and harsh. Under Bogdanovich's sure hand, this is a stylish fantasy that leaves you with a smile.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "15286115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15286115", "title": "Aboriginal Peoples Television Network", "text": "Aboriginal Peoples Television Network\n\nThe Aboriginal Peoples Television Network (APTN, stylized aptn) is a Canadian broadcast and Category A cable television network. Established in 1992 with government support to broadcast in Canada's northern territories, since 1999 APTN has had a national broadcast licence. It airs and produces programs made by, for and about Indigenous peoples in Canada and the United States. Based in Winnipeg, Manitoba, it is the first network by and for Indigenous peoples.\n\nIn 1980 the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) issued the \"Therrien Committee Report\". In that report, the committee concluded that northern Indigenous peoples had increasing interest in developing their own media services and that the government has a responsibility to ensure support in broadcasting of Indigenous cultures and languages. The committee recommended measures to enable northern native people to use broadcasting to support their languages and cultures.\n\nThe Canadian government created the \"Northern Broadcasting Policy,\" issued on March 10, 1983. It laid out principles to develop Northern native-produced programming. The policy included support for what was called the \"Northern Native Broadcast Access Program,\" a funded program to produce radio and/or television programs in First Peoples' languages to reflect their cultural perspectives.\n\nSoon after the program's creation, problems were recognized in the planned program distribution via satellite. In January 1987, Canadian aboriginal and Northern broadcasters met in Yellowknife, Northwest Territories to form a non-profit consortium to establish a Pan-Northern television distribution service. In 1988, the Canadian government gave the organizers $10 million to establish the network. The application for the new service, initially known as Television Northern Canada (TVNC), was approved by the CRTC in 1991. The network officially launched on over-the-air signals to the Canadian territories and far northern areas of the provinces on January 21, 1992.\n\nAfter several years broadcasting in the territories, TVNC began lobbying the CRTC to amend their licence to allow TVNC to be broadcast nationally; they promoted the \"uniqueness\" and \"significance\" of a national Aboriginal service. On February 22, 1999, the CRTC granted TVNC a licence for a national broadcast network.\n\nOn September 1, 1999, the network also re-branded as the Aboriginal Peoples Television Network (APTN). It was added to all specialty television services across Canada. APTN was the first national public television network for indigenous peoples.\n\nIn 2009, APTN had an annual budget of C$42 million.\n\nAPTN's service consists of six different feeds: two terrestrial feeds, separate national cable feeds for Eastern (Ontario and east), Western Canada (Manitoba and west), Northern Canada as well as a national HD feed.\n\nThe terrestrial feed, the successor to the original TVNC, is available over-the-air in Canada's far northern areas. It consists of flagship station CHTY-TV in Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, semi-satellite CHWT-TV in Whitehorse, Yukon, and numerous low-powered rebroadcasters across the Northwest Territories, Yukon, Nunavut, Alberta, Quebec and Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\nOn August 31, 2011, APTN shut down 39 low-power television repeaters across the Northwest Territories and Yukon, representing nearly half of its over-the-air transmitters. Although this was conducted on the same day as Canada's over-the-air digital conversion deadline in certain mandatory markets, these transmitters were not subject to this deadline. None of the mandatory markets was located the Northwest Territories and Yukon.\n\nIn November 2016, CEO Jean La Rose told the \"Winnipeg Free Press\" that APTN was negotiating carriage for a U.S. service. He noted that there was a high level of interest among Native Americans for programming relevant to their communities.\n\nThe Eastern Canada cable feed operated as the national feed until the Western Canada feed began service on October 2, 2006.\n\nAPTN is licensed as a national network by the CRTC, thus putting it on par with CBC Television, Radio-Canada and TVA. Since APTN's relaunch as a national network in 1999, all Canadian cable and satellite television providers have been required to include it in their basic service. However, many cable companies outside the Arctic place it above channel 60 on their systems, rendering it inaccessible to older cable-ready television sets that do not go above channel 60. The CRTC considered requiring cable companies to move APTN to a lower dial position, but decided in 2005 that it would not do so.\n\nAPTN offers a variety of programming related to Aboriginal peoples, including documentaries, news magazines, dramas, entertainment specials, children's series, movies, sports events, educational programs and more. APTN's network programming is c. 56% English, 16% French, and 28% Aboriginal languages.\n\nPrograms which have aired on the network include:\n\n\nThis is programming which APTN has indicated is targeted towards children. Some of them currently air on weekends under the \"kids\" label which has its own logo.\n\nIn March 2008, APTN launched a high definition channel known as APTN HD; initially, the HD feed was a straight simulcast of APTN's Eastern cable feed, complying with the requirement that a specialty channel's HD simulcast must be 95% identical in programming and scheduling to its standard-definition feeds. In May 2017, the CRTC amended APTN's license so that APTN HD's programming would no longer necessarily have to mirror the scheduling of the SD feeds, as long as 95% of its programming had aired at some point on one of APTN's SD feeds. The network argued that this change would allow it more flexibility in scheduling programming on APTN HD to reach a broader audience.\n\nOn June 14, 2017, a subsidiary of APTN, First Peoples Radio Inc. (FPR), was granted licences by the CRTC to operate radio stations in Toronto and Ottawa aimed at urban Indigenous populations in those cities. The Ottawa station will broadcast on 95.7 FM and the Toronto station will use 106.5 FM. Both frequencies had previously been allocated to Aboriginal Voices Radio which had its licenses revoked in 2015. FPR had also applied for licenses in Edmonton, Calgary, and Vancouver but the CRTC granted these to other applicants.\n\nFirst Peoples Radio Inc had originally announced that its two radio stations, CFPT-FM in Toronto and CFPO-FM in Ottawa, were to go on the air by June 2018 but later delayed its soft launch until October 24, 2018. FPR will produce and share programming with the Missinipi Broadcasting Corporation in Saskatchewan and Native Communications Incorporated in Manitoba and is also in talks with the Aboriginal Multi-Media Society, which has been granted radio licenses in Edmonton and Calgary, and Northern Native Broadcasting (Terrace), which operates an Indigenous radio station in Terrace, British Columbia and has been granted a license to operate a radio station in Vancouver, about potential programming partnerships.\n\nThe stations first went on the air on October 24, 2018 at noon, branded as Elmnt.FM.\n\nAPTN is working towards launching a similar outlet, tentatively titled All Nations Network, in the United States. The network has already aired works produced in the United States, such as the full-length documentary film \"Skydancer,\" directed by Katja Esson, about the community of Akwesasne and its ironworkers. It was aired on both APTN and PBS in the United States in October 2012, after winning awards at film festivals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "205007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205007", "title": "Alamut Castle", "text": "Alamut Castle\n\nAlamut (, meaning \"eagle's nest\") is a ruined mountain fortress located in Alamut region in the South Caspian province of Daylam near the Rudbar region in Persia, approximately 100 km (60 mi) from present-day Tehran.\n\nIn 1090 AD, Alamut Castle was seized as a mountain fortress under the leadership of Hasan-i Sabbah, and until 1256 it was the site of intense activity for the Shi'a Nizari Ismai'lis, functioning as the headquarters of their state, which consisted of a series of unconnected strategic strongholds scattered throughout Persia and Syria, with each stronghold being surrounded by huge swathes of hostile territory.\n\nThe fortress was thought impregnable to any military attack, and was fabled for its heavenly gardens, library, and laboratories where philosophers, scientists, and theologians could debate in intellectual freedom.\n\nIn 1256, Ruknu-d-Dīn Khurshāh surrendered the fortress to the invading Mongols, and its famous library holdings were destroyed. Sources on the history and thought of the Ismailis in this period are therefore lacking and the majority extant are written by their detractors. After the Mongol destruction, the castle was of only regional significance, passing through the hands of various local powers. Today, it lies in ruins, but because of its historical significance, it is being developed by the Iranian government as a tourist destination.\n\nThe Alamut castle was built by the Justanid ruler, Wahsudan b. Marzuban, a follower of zaydi Shiaism, around 865 AD. During a hunting trip, he witnessed a soaring eagle perch down high on a rock. Realizing the tactical advantage of this location, he chose the site for the construction of a fortress, which was called \"Aluh āmū[kh]t\" likely meaning \"Eagle's Teaching\" or \"Nest of Punishment\". Alamut remained under Justanid control until the arrival of the Ismaili chief \"da’i\" (missionary) Hasan-i Sabbah to the castle in 1090 AD, marking the start of the Alamut period in Ismaili history.\n\n\n\n\nFollowing his expulsion from Egypt over his support for Nizar bin Mustansir, Hasan-i Sabbah found that his co-religionists, the Ismailis, were scattered throughout Iran, with a strong presence in the northern and eastern regions, particularly in Daylaman, Khorasan and Quhistan. The Ismailis and other occupied peoples of Iran held shared resentment for the ruling Seljuqs, who had divided the country's farmland into \"iqtā’\" (fiefs) and levied heavy taxes upon the citizens living therein. The Seljuq \"amirs\" (independent rulers) usually held full jurisdiction and control over the districts they administered. Meanwhile, Persian artisans, craftsmen and lower classes grew increasingly dissatisfied with the Seljuq policies and heavy taxes. Hasan too, was appalled by the political and economic oppression imposed by the Sunni Seljuq ruling class on Shi'i Muslims living across Iran. It was in this context that he embarked on a resistance movement against the Seljuqs, beginning with the search for a secure site from which to launch his revolt.\n\nBy 1090 AD, the Seljuq vizier Nizam al-Mulk had already given orders for Hasan's arrest and therefore Hasan was living in hiding in the northern town of Qazvin, approximately 60 km from the Alamut castle. There, he made plans for the capture of the fortress, which was surrounded by a fertile valley whose inhabitants were mainly fellow Shi’i Muslims, the support of whom Hasan could easily gather for the revolt against the Seljuqs. The castle had never before been captured by military means and thus Hasan planned meticulously. Meanwhile, he dispatched his reliable supporters to the Alamut valley to begin settlements around the castle.\n\nIn the summer of 1090 AD, Hasan set out from Qazvin towards Alamut on a mountainous route through Andej. He remained at Andej disguised as a schoolteacher named Dehkhoda until he was certain that a number of his supporters had settled directly below the castle in the village of Gazorkhan or had gained employment at the fortress itself. Still in disguise, Hasan made his way into the fortress, earning the trust and friendship of many of its soldiers. Careful not to attract the attention of the castle's Zaydi ‘Alid lord, Mahdi, Hasan began to attract prominent figures at Alamut to his mission. It has even been suggested that Mahdi's own deputy was a secret supporter of Hasan, waiting to demonstrate his loyalty on the day that Hasan would ultimately take the castle.\n\nEarlier in the summer, Mahdi visited Qazvin, where he received strict orders from Nizam al-Mulk to find and arrest Hasan who was said to be hiding in the province of Daylaman. Upon his return to the Alamut fortress, Mahdi noticed several new servants and guards employed there. His deputy explained that illness had taken many of the castle's workers and it was fortunate that other labourers were found from the neighbouring villages. Worried about the associations of these workers, Mahdi ordered his deputy to arrest anyone with connections to the Ismailis.\n\nMahdi's suspicions were confirmed when Hasan finally approached the lord of the fortress, revealing his true identity and declared that the castle now belonged to him. Immediately, Mahdi called upon the guards to arrest and remove Hasan from the castle, only to find them prepared to follow Hasan's every command. Astounded, he realized he had been tricked and was allowed to exit the castle freely. Before leaving however, Mahdi was given a draft of 3000 gold dinars as payment for the fortress, payable by a Seljuq officer in service to the Ismaili cause named Ra’is Muzaffar who honoured the payment in full. The Alamut fortress was captured from Mahdi and therefore from Seljuq control by Hasan and his supporters without resorting to any violence.\n\nWith Alamut now in his possession, Hasan swiftly embarked on a complete re-fortification of the complex. By enhancing the walls and structure of a series of storage facilities, the fortress was to act as a self-sustaining stronghold during major confrontations. The perimeters of the rooms were lined with limestone, so as to preserve provisions to be used in times of crisis. Indeed, when the Mongols invaded the fortress, Juwayni was astonished to see stored countless supplies in perfect condition to withstand a possible siege. Recent work by Iranian archeologists at the northern gate of the fortress revealed two interconnected cellars, likely used as private spaces or for food storage.\n\nNext, Hasan took on the task of irrigating the surrounding villages of the Alamut valley. The land at valley's floor was arable land, allowing for the cultivation of dry crops including barley, wheat and rice. In order to make available the maximum amount of cultivable land, the ground was terraced under Hasan's direction. The sloping valley was broken up into step-like platforms upon which abundant food could be cultivated. In times of need the surrounding villages were well equipped to furnish the castle with ample supplies.\n\nThe construction of Alamut's famous library likely occurred after Hasan's fortification of the castle and its surrounding valley. With its astronomical instruments and rare collection of works, the library attracted scholars and scientists of a variety of religious persuasions from around the world who visited it for many months at a time, hosted by the Ismailis. By and large the writings of the Persian Ismailis, both scientific and doctrinal, did not survive beyond the Alamut period. In addition to the rich literature they had already produced in Arabic, the relocation of the Ismaili center to Iran now prompted a surge in Persian Ismaili literature. The bulk of Nizari writing produced in this period, however, was lost or destroyed during the Mongol invasions. While the majority of Alamut's theological works on Ismailism were lost during the library's destruction, a few significant writings were preserved including the major anonymous work of 1199 AD entitled \"Haft Bāb-i Bābā Sayyidnā\" and a number of treatises by Nasir al-Din al-Tusi.\n\nOne of the earliest losses of the library came during the early years of the Imam Jalal al-Din Hasan’s leadership at Alamut. In keeping with his principles of bridging the gaping relations between the Persian Ismailis and the broader Sunni world, Imam Jalal al-Din Hasan invited a number of religious scholars from the town of Qazvin to visit the castle's library and burn any books they deemed heretical. However, it was not until under the direction of the Mongol ruler, Hulegu Khan, when the Mongols ascended to the fortress in December 1256 AD, that the Alamut library was lost. With the permission of Hulegu, Juvayni explored the library and selected a few works he deemed worthy of salvaging, before the remainder was set aflame. His choice items included copies of the Qur'an, a number of astronomical instruments and treatises, and a number of Ismaili works. An anti-Ismaili, Ata-Malik Juvayni's personal leanings were the sole measure of heretical content of the library's doctrinal works. Thus, some of the richest treatises regarding the tenets of Ismaili faith were lost with his destruction of the library. From his tour and survey of the castle, Juvayni compiled a description of Alamut that he incorporated into his chronicle of the Mongol invasions, entitled \"Tarikh-i Jahangushay-i Juvaini\" (\"The History of the World Conqueror\").\n\nWith the death of Hasan-i Sabbah in 1124 AD, the Alamut fortress was now in the command of the \"da’i\" Kiya Buzurg Ummid, under whose direction Ismaili-Seljuq relations improved. However, this was not without a test of the strength of Buzurg Ummid's command, and consequently the Seljuqs began an offensive in 1126 AD on the Ismaili strongholds of Rudbar and Quhistan. Only after these assaults failed did the Seljuq sultan Sanjar concede to recognise the independence of the Ismaili territories. Three days before his death, Kiya Buzurg-Ummid designated his son Muḥammad ibn Kiyā to lead the community in the name of the Ismaili Imam.\n\nAccordingly, Muḥammad succeeded Kiya Buzurg Ummid in 1138 AD. Though they expected some resistance to his rule, the fragmented Seljuqs were met with continued solidarity amongst the Ismailis, who remained unified under Muhammad's command. The early part of Muhammad's rule saw a continued low level of conflict, enabling the Nizaris to acquire and construct a number of fortresses in the Qumis and Rudbar regions, including the castles of Sa’adat-kuh, Mubarak-kuh, and Firuz-kuh. Muhammad designated his son Hasan, born in 1126 AD, to lead the community in the name of the Imam. Hasan was well trained in Ismaili doctrine and \"ta’wil\" (esoteric interpretation).\n\nTaken by illness in 1162 AD, Muhammad was succeeded by Hasan, who was then about thirty-five years of age. Only two years after his accession, the Imam Hasan ‘ala dhikri al-salam, apparently conducted a ceremony known as \"qiyama\" (resurrection) at the grounds of the castle of Alamut, whereby the Imam would once again become visible to his community of followers in and outside of the Nizārī Ismā'īlī state. Given Juwayni's polemical aims, and the fact that he burned the Ismā'īlī libraries which may have offered much more reliable testimony about the history, scholars have been dubious about his narrative but are forced to rely on it given the absence of alternative sources. Fortunately, descriptions of this event are also preserved in Rashid al-Din’s narrative and recounted in the Haft Bab-i Abi Ishaq, an Ismaili book of the 15th century AD. However, these are either based on Juwayni, or don't go into great detail. No contemporary Ismaili account of the events has survived, and it is likely that scholars will never know the exact details of this time.\n\nThe Imam Hasan ‘ala dhikrihi al-salam died only a year and a half after the declaration of the \"qiyama\". According to Juwayni, he was stabbed in the Ismaili castle of Lambasar by his brother in law, Hasan Namwar.\nWhat little we know about the Imamate at Alamut is narrated to us by one of the greatest detractors of the Ismailis, Juwayni. According to the Ismaili version of the events, in the year following the death of the Imam-Caliph al-Mustansir, a \"qadi\" (judge) by the name of Abul Hasan Sa'idi travelled from Egypt to Alamut, taking with him Imam Nizar’s youngest son, who was known as al-Hadi. Imam Hadi apparently lived in concealment in the Alamut valley, under the protection of Hasan-i Sabbah, then the chief \"da’i\" of the Nizari Ismaili state. Following him were Imam Muhtadi and Imam Qahir, also living in concealment from the general population, but in touch with the highest-ranking members of the Ismaili hierarchy (hudūd). These living and visible proofs of the existence of the concealed Imams are known in Ismaili doctrine as \"hujjat\" (proof). The period of the Imam’s concealment was marked by central direction from the chief \"da’i\" at the Alamut fortress across the Nizari Ismaili state. With the emergence of Imam Hasan ‘ala dhikri al-salam however, the period of concealment \"(saṭr)\" was now complete.\n\nSucceeding Hasan 'ala dhikri al-salam in 1166, was the Imam Nūr al-Dīn Muhammad II, who, like his father and the imams of the pre-Alamut period, openly declared himself to his followers. Under the forty-year rule of the Imam Nur al-Din Muhammad, the doctrine of Imamate was further developed and, consistent with the tradition of Shi'i Islam, the figure of the Imam was accorded greater importance.\nWithin Persia, the Nizaris of the qiyama period largely disregarded their former political endeavours and became considerably isolated from the surrounding Sunni world. The death of Muhammad II however, ushered in a new era for the Nizaris, under the direction of the next Imam Jalal al-din Hasan. Imam Jalal al-Din Hasan invited Sunni scholars and jurists from across Khurasan and Iraq to visit Alamut, and even invited them to inspect the library and remove any books they found to be objectionable. During his lifetime, the Imam Jalal al-Din Hasan maintained friendly relations with the `Abbasid Caliph al-Nasir. An alliance with the caliph of Baghdad meant greater resources for the self-defence of not only the Nizari Ismaili state, but also the broader Muslim world.\n\nAfter his death in 1221, Imam Jalal al-Din Hasan was succeeded by his son ‘Ala al-Din Muhammad. Ascending to the throne at only nine years of age, Imam 'Ala al-Din Muhammad continued his father's policy of maintaining close relations with the Abbasid caliph. Under the leadership of Imam 'Ala al-Din Muhammad, the need for an Imam to constantly guide the community according to the demands of the times was emphasized. Intellectual life and scholarship flourished under the rule of Imam 'Ala al-Din Muhammad. The Nizari libraries were invigorated with scholars from across Asia, fleeing from the invading Mongols. Among these intellectuals, some, including Naṣīr al-Din Tusi, were responsible for important contributions to Ismaili thought towards the end of the Alamut period. Having written on the topics of astronomy, philosophy, and theology, Tusi's notable contributions to Ismaili thought include \"Rawdat al-Taslim\" (Paradise of Submission), which he composed with Hasan-i Mahmud Katib, and \"Sayr va Suluk\" (The Journey), his spiritual autobiography. Following his two major ethical works, al-Tusi studied under the patronage of the Ismaili Imam at the Alamut library until it capitulated to the Mongols in 1256.\nBy the time of Imam 'Ala al-Din Muhammad's murder in 1255, the Mongols had already attacked a number of the Ismaili strongholds in Quhistan. Imam 'Ala al-Din Muhammad was succeeded by his eldest son Imam Rukn al-Din Khurshah who engaged in a long series of negotiations with invading Mongols, and under whose leadership, the Alamut castle was surrendered to the Mongols.\n\nThe expansion of Mongol power across Western Asia depended upon the conquest of the Islamic lands, the complete seizure of which would be impossible without dismantling the ardent Nizari Ismaili state. Consisting of over fifty strongholds unified under the central power of the Imam, the Nizaris represented a significant obstruction to the Mongol undertaking. The task of successively destroying these castles was assigned to Hulegu, under the direction of his brother, the Great Khan Möngke. Only after their destruction could the invading Mongols proceed to remove the Abbasid caliph from Baghdad and advance their conquest westward.\n\nBefore Hulegu set forth toward Persia, the threat to the Muslim world posed by the swelling Mongol force was perceived by the Ismaili Imam ‘Ala al-Din Muhammad, who in 1238 joined the Abbasid caliph, al-Mustansir, in appealing to the European monarchs of England and France to coalesce in a \"Christian-Muslim Alliance\" against the Mongols. Although the European rulers did not accept this proposal, the Ismaili Imam partnered again with the Sunni caliph in 1246 AD when the two journeyed to the enthronement of the Great Khan Güyük in Mongolia. Their joint expressions of peace were not acknowledged by the Mongol lord and shortly after in 1252 AD, the Mongols arrived in Quhistan.\n\nThe first Mongol attack on the Ismailis came in April 1253 AD, when many of the Quhistani fortresses were lost to the Christian Mongol general Ket-Buqa. By May, the Mongol troops had proceeded to the fortress of Girdkuh where Ismaili forces held ground for several months. In December, a cholera outbreak within the castle weakened the Ismaili defences. Reinforcements quickly arrived from the neighbouring Alamut fortress and thwarted the attacking Mongols, killing several hundred of Ket-Buqa's troops. The castle was saved but the subsequent Mongol assaults on the towns of Tun and Tus resulted in massacres. Across Khurasan the Mongols imposed tyrannical laws and were responsible for the mass displacement of the province's population.\n\nAfter the massacres at Tun in 1256 AD, Hulegu became directly involved in the Mongol campaign to eliminate the Ismaili centres of power. From a lavish tent erected for him at Tus, Hulegu summoned the Ismaili governor at Quhistan, Nasir al-Din Muhtasham and demanded the surrender of all fortresses in his province. Nasir al-Din explained that submission could only come at the Imam's orders and that he, as governor, was powerless to seek the Ismailis' compliance.\n\nMeanwhile, Imam ‘Ala al-Din Mohammad, who had been murdered, was succeeded by his son Rukn al-Din in 1255 AD. In 1256 AD, Rukn al-Din commenced a series of gestures demonstrating his submission to the Mongols. In a show of his compliance and at the demand of Hulegu, Rukn al-Din began the dismantling process at Alamut, Maymundiz and Lamasar, removing towers and battlements. However, as winter approached, Hulegu took these gestures to be a means of delaying his seizure of the castles and on November 8, 1256, the Mongol troops quickly encircled the Maymundiz fortress and residence of the Imam. After four days of preliminary bombardment with significant casualties for both sides, the Mongols assembled their mangonels around the castle in preparation for a direct siege. There was still no snow on the ground and the attacks proceeded, forcing Rukn al-Din to declare his surrender in exchange for his and his family's safe passage. A \"yarligh \" (decree) was drafted and taken to the Imam by Juwayni. After another bombardment, Rukn al-Din descended from Maymundiz on the 19th day of November.\n\nIn the hands of Hulegu, Rukn al-Din was forced to send the message of surrender to all the castles in the Alamut valley. At the Alamut fortress, the Mongol Prince Balaghai led his troops to the base of the castle, calling for the surrender of the commander of Alamut, Muqaddam al-Din. It was decreed that should he surrender and pledge his allegiance to the Great Khan within one day, the lives of those at Alamut would be spared. Maymundiz was reluctant and wondered if the Imam's message of surrender was an actually act of duress. In obedience to the Imam, Muqaddam and his men descended from the fortress, and the Mongol army entered Alamut and began its demolition.\n\nCompared with Maymundiz, the Alamut fortress was far better fortified and could have long withstood the assaults of the Mongol army. However, the castle was relatively small in size and was easily surrounded by the Mongols. Still, the most significant factor in determining the defeat of the Ismailis at Alamut was the command by the Imam for the surrender of the castles in the valley. Many of the other fortresses had already complied, therefore not only would Muqaddam's resistance have resulted in a direct battle for the castle, but the explicit violation of the instructions of the Imam, which would impact significantly on the Ismaili commander's oath of total obedience to the Imam.\n\nThe conquest of the Ismaili castles was critical to the Mongol's political and territorial expansion westward. However, it was depicted by Juwayni as a \"matter of divine punishment upon the heretics [at] the nest of satan\". Juwayni's depiction of the fall of the Nizari Ismaili state reveals the religious leanings of the anti-Ismaili historian. When Rukn al-Din arrived in Mongolia with promises to persuade the prevailing Ismaili fortresses to surrender, the Great Khan Mongke no longer believed the Imam to be of use. En route back to his homeland, Rukn al-Din was put to death. In his description of this, Juwayni concludes that the Imam's murder cleansed \"the world which had been polluted by their evil\". Subsequently, in Quhistan, the Ismailis were called by thousands to attend large gatherings, where they were massacred. While some escaped to neighbouring regions, the Ismailis who perished in the massacres following the capture of the Ismaili garrisons numbered nearly 100,000.\n\nAccording to Ata-Malik Juvayni during the assault on the Alamut fort, \"Khitayan\" built siege weapons resembling crossbows were used. \"Khitayan\" meant Chinese and it was a type of arcuballista, deployed in 1256 under Hulagu's command. Stones were knocked off the castle and the bolts \"burnt\" a great number of the Assassins. They could fire a distance around 2,500 paces. The device was described as an \"ox's bow\". Pitch which was lit on fire was applied to the bolts of the weapon before firing. Another historian thinks that instead gunpowder might have been strapped onto the bolts which caused the burns during the battle recorded by Juvayini.\n\nThe natural geographical features of the valley surrounding Alamut largely secured the castle's defence. Positioned atop a narrow rock base approximately 180 m above ground level, the fortress could not be taken by direct military force. To the east, the Alamut valley is bordered by a mountainous range called Alamkuh \"(The Throne of Solomon)\" between which the Alamut River flows. The valley's western entrance is a narrow one, shielded by cliffs over 350 m high. Known as the Shirkuh, the gorge sits at the intersection of three rivers: the Taliqan, Shahrud and Alamut River. For much of the year, the raging waters of the river made this entrance nearly inaccessible. Qazvin, the closest town to the valley by land can only be reached by an underdeveloped mule track upon which an enemy's presence could easily be detected given the dust clouds arising from their passage.\n\nThe military approach of the Nizari Ismaili state was largely a defensive one, with strategically chosen sites that appeared to avoid confrontation wherever possible without the loss of life. But the defining characteristic of the Nizari Ismaili state was that it was scattered geographically throughout Persia and Syria. The Alamut castle therefore was only one of a nexus of strongholds throughout the regions where Ismailis could retreat to safety if necessary. West of Alamut in the Shahrud Valley, the major fortress of Lamasar served as just one example of such a retreat. In the context of their political uprising, the various spaces of Ismaili military presence took on the name \"dar al-hijra\" (place of refuge). The notion of the \"dar al-hijra\" originates from the time of the Prophet Muhammad, who fled with his supporters from intense persecution to safe haven in Yathrib. In this way, the Fatimids found their \"dar al-hijra\" in North Africa. Likewise during the revolt against the Seljuqs, several fortresses served as spaces of refuge for the Ismailis.\n\nIn pursuit of their religious and political goals, the Ismailis adopted various military strategies popular in the Middle Ages. One such method was that of assassination, the selective elimination of prominent rival figures. The murders of political adversaries were usually carried out in public spaces, creating resounding intimidation for other possible enemies. Throughout history, many groups have resorted to assassination as a means of achieving political ends. In the Ismaili context, these assignments were performed by \"fidā’īs\" (devotees) of the Ismaili mission. They were unique in that civilians were never targeted. The assassinations were against those whose elimination would most greatly reduce aggression against the Ismailis and, in particular, against those who had perpetrated massacres against the community. A single assassination was usually employed in favour of widespread bloodshed resultant from factional combat. The first instance of assassination in the effort to establish an Nizari Ismaili state in Persia is widely considered to be the murder of Seljuq vizier, Nizam al-Mulk. Carried out by a man dressed as a Sufi whose identity remains unclear, the vizier's murder in a Seljuq court is distinctive of exactly the type of visibility for which missions of the fida’is have been significantly exaggerated. While the Seljuqs and Crusaders both employed assassination as a military means of disposing of factional enemies, during the Alamut period almost any murder of political significance in the Islamic lands was attributed to the Ismailis, whence they came to be known as the \"Assassins\".\n\nDuring the medieval period, Western scholarship on the Ismailis contributed to the popular view of the community as a radical sect of assassins, believed to be trained for the precise murder of their adversaries. By the 14th century AD, European scholarship on the topic had not advanced much beyond the work and tales from the Crusaders. The origins of the word forgotten, across Europe the term Assassin had taken the meaning of \"professional murderer\". In 1603 the first Western publication on the topic of the Assassins was authored by a court official for King Henry IV and was mainly based on the narratives of Marco Polo (1254–1324) from his visits to the Near East. While he assembled the accounts of many Western travelers, the author failed to explain the etymology of the term Assassin.\n\nThe infamous Assassins were finally linked by orientalists scholar Silvestre de Sacy (d.1838) to the Arabic \"hashish\" using their variant names \"assassini\" and assissini in the 19th century. Citing the example of one of the first written applications of the Arabic term \"hashishi\" to the Ismailis by historian Abu Shams (d.1267), de Sacy demonstrated its connection to the name given to the Ismailis throughout Western scholarship. Ironically, the first known usage of the term \"hashishi\" has been traced back to 1122 AD when the Fatimid Caliph al-Amir employed it in derogatory reference to the Syrian Nizaris. Without accusing the group of utilizing the hashish drug, the caliph used the term in a pejorative manner. This label was quickly applied by anti-Ismaili historians to the Ismailis of Syria and Persia. Used figuratively, the term \"hashish\" i connoted meanings such as outcasts or rabble. The spread of the term was further facilitated through military encounters between the Nizaris and the Crusaders, whose chroniclers adopted the term and disseminated it across Europe.\n\nThe legends of the Assassins had much to do with the training and instruction of Nizari \"fida’is\", famed for their public missions during which they often gave their lives to eliminate adversaries. Misinformation from the Crusader accounts and the works of anti-Ismaili historians have contributed to the tales of \"fida’is\" being fed with hashish as part of their training. Whether \"fida’is\" were actually trained or dispatched by Nizari leaders is unconfirmed, but scholars including Wladimir Ivanow purport that the assassination of key figures including Seljuq vizier Nizam al-Mulk likely provided encouraging impetus to others in the community who sought to secure the Nizaris from political aggression. In fact, the Seljuqs and Crusaders both employed assassination as a military means of disposing of factional enemies. Yet during the Alamut period almost any murder of political significance in the Islamic lands became attributed to the Ismailis. So inflated had this association grown, that in the work of Orientalist scholars such as Bernard Lewis the Ismailis were virtually equated to the politically active \"fida’is\". Thus the Nizari Ismaili community was regarded as a radical and heretical sect known as the Assassins. Originally, a \"local and popular term\" first applied to the Ismailis of Syria, the label was orally transmitted to Western historians and thus found itself in their histories of the Nizaris.\n\nThe tales of the \"fida’is\"’ training collected from anti-Ismaili historians and orientalists writers were confounded and compiled in Marco Polo’s account, in which he described a \"secret garden of paradise\". After being drugged, the Ismaili devotees were said be taken to a paradise-like garden filled with attractive young maidens and beautiful plants in which these \"fida’is\" would awaken. Here, they were told by an \"old\" man that they were witnessing their place in Paradise and that should they wish to return to this garden permanently, they must serve the Nizari cause. So went the tale of the \"Old Man in the Mountain\", assembled by Marco Polo and accepted by Joseph von Hammer-Purgstall (1774–1856), a prominent orientalist writer responsible for much of the spread of this legend. Until the 1930s, von Hammer's retelling of the Assassin legends served as the standard account of the Nizaris across Europe.\n\nModern works on the Nizaris have elucidated the history of the Nizaris and in doing so, dispelled popular histories from the past as legends. In 1933, under the direction of the Imam Sultan Muhammad Shah, Aga Khan III (1877–1957), the Islamic Research Association was developed. Prominent historian Wladimir Ivanow, was central to both this institution and the 1946 Ismaili Society of Bombay. Cataloguing a number of Ismaili texts, Ivanow provided the ground for great strides in modern Ismaili scholarship.\n\nIn recent years, the archaeologist Peter Willey has provided interesting evidence against the folkloric Assassin histories of earlier scholars. Drawing on its established esoteric doctrine, Willey asserts that the Ismaili understanding of Paradise is a deeply symbolic one. While the Qur'anic description of Heaven includes natural imagery, Willey argues that no Nizari \"fida’i\" would seriously believe that he was witnessing Paradise simply by awakening in a beauteous garden. The Nizaris' symbolic interpretation of the Qur'anic description of Paradise serves as evidence against the possibility of such an exotic garden used as motivation for the devotees to carry out their armed missions. Furthermore, Willey points out that Juwayni the courtier of the Great Mongke, surveyed the Alamut castle just before the Mongol invasion. In his reports about of the fortress, there are elaborate descriptions of sophisticated storage facilities and the famous Alamut library. However, even this anti-Ismaili historian makes no mention of the folkloric gardens on the Alamut grounds. Having destroyed a number of texts of the library's collection, deemed by Juwayni to be heretical, it would be expected that he would pay significant attention to the Nizari gardens, particularly if they were the site of drug use and temptation. Juwayni not having once mentioned such gardens, Willey concludes that there is no sound evidence in favour of these fictitious legends. A reference collection of material excavated at Alamut Castle by Willey is in the British Museum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44609216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44609216", "title": "Alison Becker", "text": "Alison Becker\n\nAlison Helene Becker (born ) is an American actress, comedian, television personality,and television writer. She is the previous host of VH1's \"Top 20 Video Countdown\" and formerly the co-host/sidekick on the FuelTV panel talk-show \"The Daily Habit\".\n\nBecker was born in Allamuchy Township, New Jersey. She attended Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., where she graduated cum laude with a degree in English in 1999. After college graduation, she moved to New York City and began exploring the fields of theatre and comedy, creating a variety of original characters and sketch comedies.\n\nBecker is a regular player at the Upright Citizens Brigade improv theatre. She has also performed for Hopscotch: A New York Sex Comedy, Caroline's on Broadway, and other comedy clubs. She starred on \"Boiling Points\", the MTV prank television show. She was a VJ on the music video TV channel Fuse, where she hosted \"F-List\" and some other shows. She was the host of VH1's \"Top 20 Video Countdown\". She is on the online show \"Mayne Street\" with ESPN broadcaster Kenny Mayne on ESPN. She was a co-host on the FuelTV talk show \"The Daily Habit\" and had a recurring role on NBC's \"Parks and Recreation\", appearing in all seven seasons as local newspaper reporter Shauna Malwae-Tweep. She also appeared in the CollegeHumor \"Badman\" Batman spoof videos and a \"If Google Was a Guy\" sketch.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26995938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26995938", "title": "Bhatkhande Music Institute Deemed University", "text": "Bhatkhande Music Institute Deemed University\n\nBhatkhande Music Institute Deemed University, formerly Bhatkhande Music Institute, is a music institute in Lucknow. Established in 1926 by Vishnu Narayan Bhatkhande, it was declared a deemed university by University Grants Commission (UGC) in 2000, and offers music education in Vocal Music, Instrumental, Rhythms, Dance, Musicology and Research and Applied Music.\n\nThe Institute finds its origin in the Marris College of Music, established in 1926 by renowned classical singer and musicologist, Vishnu Narayan Bhatkhande and Rai Umanath Bali with the help of Dr. Rai Rajeshwar Bali, then Education minister of the United Provinces, the institution was formally inaugurated by then Governor of United Provinces, Sir William Sinclair Marris, and was also named after him.\n\nLater, on 26 March 1966, the Government of Uttar Pradesh took over the college and renamed it after its founder as Bhatkhande Music College of Hindustani Music, later and now Bhatkhande Music Institute University, after Government of India through a notification on 24 October 2000, declared the institute a deemed university.\n\nDuring the 1970s & 1980s, the institute organized annual festivals in which the most eminent of the country’s musicians performed. Some of the memorable concerts, that included performances by stars like Pd. Ravishanker, Amjad Ali Khan, Zakir Hussain, N Rajam, VJ Jog, Sitara Devi, etc. were part of the Lucknow Festival in the 1970s. During the same period various new courses, like \"Thumri\" (singer Mrs. Begum Akhtar was the honorary faculty), were introduced.\n\nIn 2005, it organised a three-day classical music festival part of the Lucknow Mahotsav.\n\nPrimarily teaching vocal, dance, musicology and applied music in Hindustani classical music, the institute also started teaching western classical music in 2009, a move that didn't go well with some chauvinists (not musicians or affiliated to the Institute), who feared that addition of Western classical music could later lead to replacement of Bharatnatyam courses by 'belly dancing.' \n\n\nThe institute offers courses in Vocal Music, Instrumental, Rhythms, Dance, Musicology & Research and Applied Music leading up to: Diploma in Music - 2 years, Bachelor of Performing Arts (B.P.A.) - 3 years, Master of Performing Arts (M.P.A.) - 2 years and Ph.D.. Apart from this there are special for the training in Dhrupad-Dhamar, Thumri singing and Light classical music which includes music composition and direction. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7354493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7354493", "title": "Book scanning", "text": "Book scanning\n\nBook scanning (or magazine scanning) is the process of converting physical books and magazines into digital media such as images, electronic text, or electronic books (e-books) by using an image scanner.\n\nDigital books can be easily distributed, reproduced, and read on-screen. Common file formats are DjVu, Portable Document Format (PDF), and Tagged Image File Format (TIFF). To convert the raw images optical character recognition (OCR) is used to turn book pages into a digital text format like ASCII or other similar format, which reduces the file size and allows the text to be reformatted, searched, or processed by other applications.\n\nImage scanners may be manual or automated. In an ordinary commercial image scanner, the book is placed on a flat glass plate (or platen), and a light and optical array moves across the book underneath the glass. In manual book scanners, the glass plate extends to the edge of the scanner, making it easier to line up the book's spine. Other book scanners place the book face up in a v-shaped frame, and photograph the pages from above. Pages may be turned by hand or by automated paper transport devices. Glass or plastic sheets are usually pressed against the page to flatten it.\n\nAfter scanning, software adjusts the document images by lining it up, cropping it, picture-editing it, and converting it to text and final e-book form. Human proofreaders usually check the output for errors.\n\nScanning at () is adequate for conversion to digital text output, but for archival reproduction of rare, elaborate or illustrated books, much higher resolution is used. High-end scanners capable of thousands of pages per hour can cost thousands of dollars, but do-it-yourself (DIY), manual book scanners capable of 1200 pages per hour have been built for US$300.\n\nCommercial book scanners are not like normal scanners; these book scanners are usually a high quality digital camera with light sources on either side of the camera mounted on some sort of frame to provide easy access for a person or machine to flip through the pages of the book. Some models involve V-shaped book cradles, which provide support for book spines and also center book position automatically.\n\nThe advantage of this type of scanner is that it is very fast, compared to the productivity of overhead scanners.\n\nProjects like Project Gutenberg (est. 1971), Million Book Project (est. circa 2001), Google Books (est. 2004), and the Open Content Alliance (est. 2005) scan books on a large scale.\n\nOne of the main challenges to this is the sheer volume of books that must be scanned. In 2010 the total number of works appearing as books in human history was estimated to be around 130 million. All of these must be scanned and then made searchable online for the public to use as a universal library. Currently, there are three main ways that large organizations are relying on: outsourcing, scanning in-house using commercial book scanners, and scanning in-house using robotic scanning solutions.\n\nAs for outsourcing, books are often shipped to be scanned by low-cost sources to India or China. Alternatively, due to convenience, safety and technology improvement, many organizations choose to scan in-house by using either overhead scanners which are time-consuming, or digital camera-based scanning machines which are substantially faster and is a method employed by Internet Archive as well as Google. Traditional methods have included cutting off the book's spine and scanning the pages in a scanner with automatic page-feeding capability, with subsequent rebinding of the loose pages.\n\nOnce the page is scanned, the data is either entered manually or via OCR, another major cost of the book scanning projects.\n\nDue to copyright issues, most scanned books are those that are out of copyright; however, Google Book Search is known to scan books still protected under copyright unless the publisher specifically prohibits this.\n\nFor book scanning on a low budget, the least expensive method to scan a book or magazine is to cut off the binding. This converts the book or magazine into a sheaf of looseleaf papers, which can then be loaded into a standard automatic document feeder (ADF) and scanned using inexpensive and common scanning technology. While this is not a desirable solution for very old and uncommon books, it is a useful tool for book and magazine scanning where the book is not an expensive collector's item and replacement of the scanned content is easy. There are two technical difficulties with this process, first with the cutting and second with the scanning.\n\nMore precise and less destructive than cutting pages with a paper guillotine or razor or scissors is the technique of meticulous unbinding by hand, assisted with tools. This technique has been successfully employed for tens of thousands of pages of archival original paper scanned for the Riazanov Library digital archive project from newspapers and magazines and pamphlets, varying from 50 to 100 years old and more, and often composed of fragile, brittle paper. Although the monetary value for some collectors (and for most sellers of this sort of material) is destroyed by unbinding, unbinding in many cases actually greatly assists preservation of the physical pages themselves, making them more accessible to researchers and less likely to be damaged when subsequently examined. The down side is that unbound stacks of pages are \"fluffed up\", and therefore more exposed to oxygen in the air, which may in some cases (theoretically) speed deterioration. This can be addressed by putting weights on the pages after they are unbound, and storage in appropriate containers.\n\nHand unbinding will preserve text that runs into the gutters of bindings, and most critically allows more easy and complete high quality scans to be made of two page wide material, such as center cartoons, graphic art, and photos in magazines. The digital archive of The Liberator 1918-1924 on Marxist Internet Archive nicely demonstrates the quality of two page wide graphic art scans made possible by careful hand unbinding prior to flat bed or other scanning.\n\nUnbinding techniques vary with the binding technology, from simply removing a few staples to unbending and removing nails to meticulous grinding down of layers of glue on the spine of a book to precisely the right point, followed by laborious removal of the string used to hold the book together.\n\nNote that with some newspapers (such as Labor Action 1950-1952) there are columns on the center facing pages that run right in-between the pages. Chopping off part of the spine of a bound volume of such papers will lose part of this text. Even the Greenwood Reprint of this publication failed to preserve the text content of those center columns, cutting off significant amounts of text there. Only when bound volumes of the original newspaper were meticulously unbound, and the opened pair of center pages were scanned as a single page on a flat bed scanner was the center column content made digitally available. Alternatively, one can present the two facing center pages as three scans. One of each individual page, and one of a page sized area situated over the center of the two pages.\n\nOne method of cutting a stack of 500 to 1000 pages in one pass is accomplished with a guillotine paper cutter. This is a large steel table with a paper vise that screws down onto the stack and firmly secures it before cutting. The cut is accomplished with a large sharpened steel blade which moves straight down and cuts the entire length of each sheet all at once. A lever on the blade permits several hundred pounds of force to be applied to the blade for a quick one-pass cut.\n\nA clean cut through a thick stack of paper cannot be made with a traditional inexpensive sickle-shaped hinged paper cutter. These cutters are only intended for a few sheets, with up to ten sheets being the practical cutting limit. A large stack of paper applies torsional forces on the hinge, pulling the blade away from the cutting edge on the table. The cut becomes more inaccurate as the cut moves away from the hinge, and the force required to hold the blade against the cutting edge increases as the cut moves away from the hinge.\n\nThe guillotine cutting process dulls the blade over time, requiring that it be resharpened. Coated paper such as slick magazine paper dulls the blade more quickly than plain book paper, due to the kaolinite clay coating. Additionally, removing the binding of an entire hardcover book causes excessive wear due to cutting through the cover's stiff backing material. Instead the outer cover can be removed and only interior pages need be cut.\n\nAn alternate method of unbinding books is to use a table saw. While this method is potentially dangerous and does not leave as smooth an edge as the guillotine paper cutter method, it is more readily available to the average person. The ideal method is to clamp the book between two thick boards using heavy machine screws to provide the clamping force. The entire wood and book package is fed through the table saw using the rip fence as a guide. A sharp fine carbide tooth blade is ideal for generating an acceptable cut. The quality of the cut depends on the blade, feed rate, type of paper, paper coating, and binding material.\n\nOnce the paper is liberated from the spine, it can be scanned one sheet at a time using a traditional flatbed scanner or automatic document feeder.\n\nPages with a decorative riffled edging or curving in an arc due to a non-flat binding can be difficult to scan using an ADF. An ADF is designed to scan pages of uniform shape and size, and variably sized or shaped pages can lead to improper scanning. The riffled edges or curved edge can be guillotined off to render the outer edges flat and smooth before the binding is cut.\n\nThe coated paper of magazines and bound textbooks can make them difficult for the rollers in an ADF to pick up and guide along the paper path. An ADF which uses a series of rollers and channels to flip sheets over may jam or misfeed when fed coated paper. Generally there are fewer problems by using as straight of a paper path as is possible, with few bends and curves. The clay can also rub off the paper over time and coat sticky pickup rollers, causing them to loosely grip the paper. The ADF rollers may need periodic cleaning to prevent this slipping.\n\nMagazines can pose a bulk-scanning challenge due to small nonuniform sheets of paper in the stack, such as magazine subscription cards and fold out pages. These need to be removed before the bulk scan begins, and are either scanned separately if they include worthwhile content, or are simply left out of the scan process.\n\nIn 1995, Phil Zimmerman published \"PGP Source Code and Internals\" as a $60 hardbound book, which under the First Amendment could legally be shipped abroad. The buyer could either display it in a library or destructively scan it so that the source code could be compiled via freely available GNU software into the Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) cryptosystem that the U.S. government regarded as a restricted munition. Zimmerman was being prosecuted for distributing PGP software and wanted to test the law in the courts. It was not directly tested, but export restrictions have eased: it is legal to export PGP anywhere but the seven countries and specified groups and individuals to which nothing can be exported from the U.S.\n\nSoftware driven machines and robots have been developed to scan books without the need of disbinding them in order to preserve both the contents of the document and create a digital image archive of its current state. This recent trend has been due in part to ever improving imaging technologies that allow a high quality digital archive image to be captured with little or no damage to a rare or fragile book in a reasonably short period of time.\n\nThe first fully automated book scanner was the DL (Digitizing Line) scanner, manufactured by 4DigitalBooks in Switzerland. First known installation was at Stanford University in 2001.\nScanner received a Dow Jones Runner-Up award under Business Applications Category in 2001.\n\nMost high-end commercial robotic scanners use traditional air and suction technology while some others use alternative approaches like bionic finger for turning the pages. Some scanners take advantage of Ultrasonic sensor or Photoelectric sensor to detect dual pages and prevent skipping of pages. With reports of machines being able to scan up to 2900 pages per hour robotic book scanners are specifically designed for large-scale digitization projects.\n\nGoogle's patent 7508978 shows an infrared camera technology which allows to detect and automatically adjust the three-dimensional shape of the page.\nResearchers from the University of Tokyo have an experimental non-destructive book scanner that includes a 3D surface scanner to allow images of a curved page to be straightened in software. Thus the book or magazine can be scanned as quickly as the operator can flip through the pages; about 200 pages per minute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56146439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56146439", "title": "Byron's letters", "text": "Byron's letters\n\nThe letters of Lord Byron, of which about 3,000 are known, range in date from 1798, when Byron was 10 years old, to 9 April 1824, a few days before he died. They have long received extraordinary critical praise for their wit, spontaneity and sincerity. Many rate Byron as the greatest letter-writer in English literature, and consider his letters comparable or superior to his poems as literary achievements. They have also been called \"one of the three great informal autobiographies in English\", alongside the diaries of Samuel Pepys and James Boswell. Their literary value is reflected in the huge prices collectors will pay for them; in 2009 a sequence of 15 letters to his friend Francis Hodgson was sold at auction for almost £280,000.\n\nAlthough in his letters Byron adapted his style and stance to his different correspondents, they all share an unstudied, unliterary appearance, an \"offhand eloquence\", which at its best resembles the talk of a conversationalist of genius. He never wrote to produce an effect. Lord Macaulay, in one of his essays, wrote that Byron's letters \"are less affected than those of Pope and Walpole, [and] have more matter in them than those of Cowper\"; if literary art was employed it was \"that highest art which cannot be distinguished from nature\". All are deeply imbued with his volatile and indefinable personality, which, for those who find his personality offensive, can be something of a disadvantage. They are marked by rapid alternations of mood, by common sense, wit, intellect and sincerity, and by a cool and unshakeable scepticism. They fascinate the reader through the huge zest for life they manifest. They share with his poems the characteristics of vigour and movement. \"Everything is said without reserve, without attenuation, savagely\", wrote André Maurois; they \"[sweep] the reader along in an irresistible onrush\". They repeat words as if they were rhymes, and have rhythms that resemble those of the poems apart from being more varied. They share the outlook on life of Byron's more realistic poems, like \"Beppo\", \"Don Juan\" and \"The Vision of Judgment\", rather than the darkly romantic \"Childe Harold\", \"Manfred\" and \"The Corsair\".\n\nAlthough Byron's life was cut short at the age of only 36, almost 3000 letters of his are known. There are three main reasons why that number is so large: one is simply the pleasure Byron took in composing them; another is the fact that Byron spent many years in self-imposed exile in Italy and Greece, which made it necessary for him to write to keep in touch with his friends in England; and finally, the sensational success of \"Childe Harold's Pilgrimage\" when Byron was only 23 turned him into a national and then international celebrity, making his letters valuable relics to be collected rather than thrown away.\n\nByron's correspondents can be divided up into successive groups. As a boy he wrote to his mother, his half-sister Augusta, and the family lawyer John Hanson. At Southwell there were John Pigot and his sister Elizabeth. Byron's friends at college included Scrope Davies, John Cam Hobhouse and Francis Hodgson. With the publication of \"Childe Harold\" he became known to a new circle, the poets Robert Charles Dallas, Thomas Moore and Samuel Rogers, along with his banker Douglas Kinnaird and his publisher John Murray. Then there were the women who fell in love with him: Lady Caroline Lamb, Lady Frances Webster, Lady Oxford, and his future wife Annabella Milbancke; also his confidante Lady Melbourne. A new group of friends in Switzerland included the poet Percy Bysshe Shelley, Shelley's wife Mary and sister-in-law Claire Clairmont. Members of the Shelley circle with whom Byron corresponded included Thomas Medwin, Edward Williams and his common-law wife Jane, Edward John Trelawny, and the poet Leigh Hunt. In Venice there were Byron's lover Teresa Guiccioli, her brother Gamba and husband Count Guiccioli, the British consul Richard Belgrave Hoppner, and Alexander Scott. Finally, Byron's Greek adventure brought him into contact with a new circle: the rebel leader Prince Mavrokordatos, the banker Samuel Barff, and members of the London Philhellenic Committee, including Colonel Leicester Stanhope.\n\nIn 1830, 6 years after his death, about 560 of Byron's letters were published by his friend Thomas Moore under the title \"Letters and Journals of Lord Byron: With Notices of his Life\". The next edition of the letters and journals appeared in six volumes in 1898-1901, edited by R. E. Prothero as part of a 13-volume \"Works\". Prothero included nearly 1200 letters, conscientiously edited, though like Moore he excised all passages likely to offend 19th-century sensibilities. A collection of about 350 unpublished letters was bequeathed by John Hobhouse's daughter Lady Dorchester to John Murray, who published them as \"Lord Byron’s Correspondence\" in 1922, in two volumes, though yet again in a bowdlerized form. In 1950 Peter Quennell produced a selection of the letters, called \"Byron: A Self-Portrait\", of which 50 letters had not up to that point been published. In 1966 the American literary scholar Leslie A. Marchand, having written a magisterial biography of Byron, began work on editing his letters. The result, \"Byron's Letters and Journals\", appeared in 11 volumes plus an index volume between 1973 and 1982, with a final supplementary volume in 1994. He was assisted in his work by the edition's publisher, John Murray VI, grandson of the earlier editor and great-great-grandson of Byron's own publisher. Marchand's work included about 3000 letters, and it remains the reference edition. The first two volumes won the Modern Language Association's James Russell Lowell Prize for 1974, the judges calling it \"an outstanding achievement in humane editing\". In 1982 he followed this up with a one-volume selection of Byron's letters and journals. In 2015 Richard Lansdown published another selection, which differed from Marchand's in being about twice the size and in attempting to cover Byron's whole life rather than just picking out the best letters. Jeffery Vail called it \"engrossing, moving, hilarious, and sometimes heartbreaking\", and preferred it to the Marchand selection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "339562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=339562", "title": "Camera lucida", "text": "Camera lucida\n\nA camera lucida is an optical device used as a drawing aid by artists.\n\nThe \"camera lucida\" performs an optical superimposition of the subject being viewed upon the surface upon which the artist is drawing. The artist sees both scene and drawing surface simultaneously, as in a photographic double exposure. This allows the artist to duplicate key points of the scene on the drawing surface, thus aiding in the accurate rendering of perspective.\n\nThe \"camera lucida\" was patented in 1806 by William Hyde Wollaston. The basic optics were described 200 years earlier by Johannes Kepler in his Dioptrice (1611), but there is no evidence he or his contemporaries constructed a working camera lucida. By the 19th century, Kepler's description had fallen into oblivion, so Wollaston's claim was never challenged. The term \"camera lucida\" (Latin \"well-lit room\" as opposed to \"camera obscura\" \"dark room\") is Wollaston's. (cf. Edmund Hoppe, Geschichte der Optik, Leipzig 1926)\n\nWhile on honeymoon in Italy in 1833, the photographic pioneer William Fox Talbot used a \"camera lucida\" as a sketching aid. He later wrote that it was a disappointment with his resulting efforts which encouraged him to seek a means to \"cause these natural images to imprint themselves durably\".\n\nIn 2001, artist David Hockney's book \"\" was met with controversy. His argument, known as the Hockney-Falco thesis, is that the notable transition in style for greater precision and visual realism that occurred around the decade of the 1420s is attributable to the artists’ discovery of the capability of optical projection devices, specifically an arrangement using a concave mirror to project real images. Their evidence is based largely on the characteristics of the paintings by great artists of later centuries, such as Ingres, Van Eyck, and Caravaggio.\n\nThe \"camera lucida\" is still available today through art-supply channels but is not well known or widely used. It has enjoyed a resurgence recently through a number of Kickstarter campaigns.\n\nThe name \"camera lucida\" (Latin for \"light chamber\") is obviously intended to recall the much older drawing aid, the \"camera obscura\" (Latin for \"dark chamber\"). There is no optical similarity between the devices. The \"camera lucida\" is a light, portable device that does not require special lighting conditions. No image is projected by the \"camera lucida\".\n\nIn the simplest form of \"camera lucida\", the artist looks down at the drawing surface through a half-silvered mirror tilted at 45 degrees. This superimposes a direct view of the drawing surface beneath, and a reflected view of a scene horizontally in front of the artist. This design produces an inverted image which is right-left reversed when turned the right way up. Also, light is lost in the imperfect reflection. Wollaston's design used a prism with four optical faces to produce two successive reflections (see illustration), thus producing an image that is not inverted or reversed. Angles ABC and ADC are 67.5° and BCD is 135°. Hence, the reflections occur through total internal reflection, so very little light is lost. It is not possible to see straight through the prism, so it is necessary to look at the very edge to see the paper.\nThe instrument often came with an assortment of weak negative lenses, to create a virtual image of the scene at several distances. If the right lens is inserted, so that the chosen distance roughly equals the distance of the drawing surface, both images can be viewed in good focus simultaneously.\n\nIf white paper is used with the \"camera lucida\", the superimposition of the paper with the scene tends to wash out the scene, making it difficult to view. When working with a \"camera lucida\", it is often beneficial to use black paper and to draw with a white pencil.\n\nAs recently as a few decades ago, the \"camera lucida\" was still a standard tool of microscopists. It is still a key tool in the field of palaeontology. Until very recently, photomicrographs were expensive to reproduce. Furthermore, in many cases, a clear illustration of the structure that the microscopist wished to document was much easier to produce by drawing than by micrography. Thus, most routine histological and microanatomical illustrations in textbooks and research papers were \"camera lucida\" drawings rather than photomicrographs. The \"camera lucida\" is still used as the most common method among neurobiologists for drawing brain structures, although it is recognised to have limitations. \"For decades in cellular neuroscience, camera lucida hand drawings have constituted essential illustrations. (...) The limitations of camera lucida can be avoided by the procedure of digital reconstruction\". Of particular concern is distortion, and new digital methods are being introduced which can limit or remove this, \"computerized techniques result in far fewer errors in data transcription and analysis than the camera lucida procedure\". It is also regularly used in biological taxonomy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11067172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11067172", "title": "Cefalù Cathedral", "text": "Cefalù Cathedral\n\nThe Cathedral of Cefalù () is a Roman Catholic basilica in Cefalù, Sicily. It is one of nine structures included in the UNESCO World Heritage Site known as Arab-Norman Palermo and the Cathedral Churches of Cefalù and Monreale.\n\nThe cathedral was erected in 1131 in the Norman architectural style, the island of Sicily having been conquered by the Normans in 1091. According to tradition, the building was erected after a vow made to the Holy Saviour by the King of Sicily, Roger II, after he escaped from a storm to land on the city's beach. The building has a fortress-like character and, seen from a distance, it dominates the skyline of the surrounding medieval town. It made a powerful statement of the Norman presence.\n\nThe cathedral was built in a long-populated area, as attested by the presence of a Roman road and a Paleo-Christian mosaic. Construction began in 1131, the apse mosaics were begun in 1145, and the sarcophagi that Roger II provided for his tomb and that of his wife were put in place the same year.\nAfter 1172 the church suffered a period of decline. In 1215 Frederick II of Hohenstaufen moved the two sarcophagi to the Cathedral of Palermo. Construction of the cathedral was resumed soon after, the façade being completed in 1240. The Cathedral was consecrated in 1267 by Rodolphe de Chevriêres, Bishop of Albano.\n\nIn 1472 a portico, by Ambrogio da Como, was added between the two towers of the facade.\n\nThe cathedral is preceded by a large terraced parvis, which was originally a cemetery. According to tradition, it was created with earth brought from Jerusalem, which was believed to have qualities that caused the rapid mummification of corpses.\n\nThe façade is characterized by two large Norman towers with mullioned windows, each surmounted by a small spire added in the 15th century. Each spire is different: one has a square plan surrounded by flame-shaped merlons, the latter symbolizing the Papal authority and the mitre; the other has an octagonal plan and Ghibelline merlons, symbolizing the Royal and temporal power.\n\nThe 15th-century portico has three arches, the two outer being pointed, supported by four columns and vaulting ribs. Under the portico is the \"Porta Regum\" (Kings' Door), with a finely decorated marble portal flanked by wall paintings.\n\nThe interior of the cathedral is on the Latin cross plan, divided into a nave and two aisles by arcades of antique columns: fourteen in pink granite and two in cipolin. The bases and capitals are from the 2nd century AD. Two large capitals supporting the triumphal arch of the nave were probably made by an Apulian workshop in the mid-12th century.\n\nThe roof of the nave was lowered, as can be seen from the exterior of the building. The transept is higher than both the nave and aisles. While parts of the building are barrel-vaulted and parts have an open timber roof, the presbytery has a ribbed vault of stone.\n\nBeyond the crossing, the church is unusual in combining a style that is essentially Romanesque in its massive simple forms with the pointed (or ogival) arch. This feature is also seen in Monreale Cathedral. It is a forerunner of the Gothic style which was to develop in the region of Paris within a few years.\n\nThe church has three apses, an arrangement also seen in Sicily at Monreale Cathedral. The two lower side apses have the upper tiers of the exterior decorated by blind arcading of small crossed arches and sculpted corbels, also seen used extensively at Monreale. The corbels date from 1215-1223 and portray masks, heads of animals, and human figures in contorted positions. The corbels of the central apse are more recent. The central apse originally had three large ocular windows, which were later closed to give space for the mosaic, and a larger central window of ogival shape. Two other pairs of circular windows are located at the transept's ends.\n\nThe cathedral has a cloister that can be entered from within the church. The arcade has pointed arches, each of which rests on slender, paired columns. The form is not different from that of Spanish and some French cloisters; the composite capitals of the coupled columns are Norman and other more generically Romanesque in their motifs. This cloister is the model for the successive Norman cloisters of Sicily, in particular that of the Monreale.\n\nIt was probably planned that the entire church be decorated in mosaic, but this was completed only in the presbyterium area. Mosaic still covers the apse and about half of the side walls. Roger II brought masters in the technique of mosaic from Constantinople. They adapted their traditional Byzantine decorative art to an architectural structure that was of northern European origin.\n\nThe dominant figure of the decorative scheme is the bust of Christ Pantokrator, portrayed on the semi-dome of the apse with a hand raised in Benediction. In his left hand he carries the Gospel of John, in which can be read, in Greek and Latin: \"I am the light of the world, who follows me will not wander in the darkness but will have the light of life\" (John, ).\n\nIn the upper tier of the apsidal wall is depicted the Blessed Virgin Mary, her hands raised in prophecy, flanked by four archangels. In the second and third tiers, on either side of the central window, are figures of apostles and evangelists, placed according to a planned theological programme.\n\nThe mosaic decoration extends into the presbyterium, with the side walls showing figures of prophets and saints. On the right wall, adjacent to the royal throne, are royal figures, while on the left side, adjacent the bishop's throne, are priestly figures. Each figure is accompanied by an inscription, in Greek or Latin, describing the character portrayed. The decoration of the cross-vaulted ceiling depicts four cherubim and four seraphim.\n\nThe chief figures, that of Christ Pantokrator and the Virgin Mary, are clothed in blue, given luminosity by a background of gold tiles. The work is of the highest order, displaying elegance in the draping of the figures' robes and in the sensitivity of their faces and gestures. It is considered the finest Byzantine mosaic in Italy and comparable to other fine Late Byzantine work from Constantinople.\n\nThe Byzantine mosaic decoration was completed before 1170. The lower part and the side walls of the presbyterium were not completed until the 17th century. They covered preceding paintings of which scarce traces remain today.\n\nOf the original painted decoration, a figure of Urban V from the late 14th century, on a column on the left aisle; and a \"Madonna enthroned\" from the 15th century, in the left arm of the transept, remain.\n\nThe basilica houses several funerary monuments, including a late Antique sarcophagus, a medieval one, and the notable sepulchre of the Bishop Castelli of the 18th century.\n\nThe 12th-century baptismal font, carved from a single block of stone, is decorated with four small sculpted lions. The church also houses a canvas of the Madonna from Antonello Gagini's workshop (16th century) and a painted wooden cross by Guglielmo da Pesaro (1468). The organ is a large two-manual instrument with detached console and plain pipework, sitting above a panelled wooden case.\n\nThe nave's ceiling has a painted decoration with busts, fanciful animals and other motifs, probably the work of Arabic craftsmen.\n\nStarting in 1985, the Palermo artist Michele Canzoneri was commissioned and has installed 72 modern, abstract, stained-glass windows based on episodes from the Old and New Testaments. These have aroused some controversy for their style.\n\nExcavations in the cathedral area have brought to light parts of a 6th-century polychrome mosaic. They depict a dove drinking, parts of two other birds, two small trees, and a lily-shaped flower, enclosed in a frame with ogival and lozenge motifs.\n\nThis mosaic belonged probably to a pre-existing Byzantine basilica. This area of Cefalù was frequented at least up to the 8th century, when it was an episcopal see.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22771151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22771151", "title": "Christian views on sin", "text": "Christian views on sin\n\nThe doctrine of sin is central to Christianity, since its basic message is about redemption in Christ. Christian hamartiology describes sin as an act of offence against God by despising his persons and Christian biblical law, and by injuring others. In Christian views it is an evil human act, which violates the rational nature of man as well as God's nature and his eternal law. According to the classical definition of St. Augustine of Hippo sin is \"a word, deed, or desire in opposition to the eternal law of God.\"\n\nAmong some scholars, sin is understood mostly as legal infraction or contract violation of non-binding philosophical frameworks and perspectives of Christian ethics, and so salvation tends to be viewed in legal terms.\n\nOther Christian scholars understand sin to be fundamentally relational—a loss of love for the Christian God and an elevation of self-love (\"concupiscence\", in this sense), as was later propounded by Augustine in his debate with the Pelagians. As with the legal definition of sin, this definition also affects the understanding of Christian grace and salvation, which are thus viewed in relational terms.\n\nThe first reference to \"sin\" as a noun is of \"\"sin\" is crouching at your door; it desires to have you, but you must rule over it” waiting to be mastered by Cain, a form of literary theriomorphism. \nThe first use of the verb is God appears to Abimelech \"in the dream, “Yes, I know you did this with a clear conscience, and so I have kept you from \"sinning\" against me. That is why I did not let you touch her.”\" in Genesis 20:3. Isaiah announced the consequences: \"But your iniquities have separated you from your God; your sins have hidden his face from you, so that he will not hear. For your hands are stained with blood, your fingers with guilt. Your lips have spoken falsely, and your tongue mutters wicked things\" — a separation between God and man, and unrequited worshipping.\n\nOriginal sin, also called ancestral sin, is the Christian doctrine of humanity's state of sin resulting from the fall of man, stemming from Adam's rebellion in Eden, namely the sin of disobedience in consuming from the tree of knowledge of good and evil. This condition has been characterized in many ways, ranging from something as insignificant as a slight deficiency, or a tendency toward sin yet without collective guilt, referred to as a \"sin nature\", to something as drastic as total depravity or automatic guilt of all humans through collective guilt.\n\nThe concept of original sin was first alluded to in the 2nd century by Irenaeus, Bishop of Lyon in his controversy with certain dualist Gnostics. Other church fathers such as Augustine also developed the doctrine, seeing it as based on the New Testament teaching of Paul the Apostle ( and ) and the Old Testament verse of . Tertullian, Cyprian, Ambrose and Ambrosiaster considered that humanity shares in Adam's sin, transmitted by human generation. Augustine's formulation of original sin was popular among Protestant reformers, such as Martin Luther and John Calvin, who equated original sin with concupiscence, affirming that it persisted even after baptism and completely destroyed freedom. The Jansenist movement, which the Catholic Church declared to be heretical, also maintained that original sin destroyed freedom of will.\n\nThe way Thomas Aquinas viewed sin and vices was radically different from later approaches, especially that of 17th-century moral theology. He presented sin and vices as contraries of virtues. He discusses the subject in his Summa Theologica part Ia–IIae (\"Prima secundae\") qq. 71–89.\n\nIn one of his definitions of sin Thomas quotes Augustine of Hippo's description of sin as \"a thought, words and deed against the Eternal Law.\"' \nTo recognise the possibilities of sin in man is equal to acknowledge his human nature, his control and mastery of his own actions. Sin is a motion to the goal, it is judged by the object to which it is directed. The field of sin is the same as the field of virtue. There are three major fields: relationship with God, with oneself and with the neighbour. Thomas distinguished between mortal and venial sins. Mortal sin is when a person has irreparably destroyed the very principle of his/her order to the goal of life. Venial sin is when he/she has acted in a certain disordered way without destructing that principle:\nAccording to Aquinas the gravity of sin depends also on \"some disposition of the agent\" (cf. STh I–II q. 18, aa. 4, 6). Sin, venial by reason of its object, may become mortal. It happens when person fixes his/her ultimate happiness, the last end of his/her life (Lat. \"finis ultimus\") in the object of that venial sin. When venial sin is used as a way to provoke mortal sin it becomes mortal as well, e.g. when someone uses empty conversation or a chat to seduce someone to commit adultery. Also sin, mortal by reason of its object, may become venial because of the agent's disposition when his/her evil act does not have full moral capacity, i.e. is not deliberated by reason. That may happen for instance when sudden movements of unbelief arise in the mind. (Cf. STh I–II q.72 a.5).\n\nThe difference and gravity of sins may be discerned on the grounds of spirit and flesh, even mortal sins may differ in gravity. Carnal sins like lust, adultery or fornication, gluttony and avarice, because the person who commits them is inordinately directed towards material goods that are a serious matter, are mortal sins. They may cause much shame and infamy. But spiritual sins like blaspheming of God or apostasy are, according to Thomas, still greater evil, as they have more of the aversion from God. They are directed against a greater object. The formal, essential element of sin is more at the centre in them. (cf. STh I–II q.72 a.2)\n\nAccording to another formulation of the concept of sin in the \"Summa\", at the heart of sin is \"the turning away from the immutable good\", i.e. God, and \"inordinate turning to mutable good\", i.e. creatures. (STh I–IIae q.87 a.4) This cannot be understood as if in the concrete sinful deed the sinner commits two separate and independent acts. Both \"aversio\" and \"conversio\" constitute one single guilty action. At the root of the inordinate turning to the creatures is self-love which expresses itself in disordered desire (\"cupiditas\") and rebellion towards God (\"superbia\").\n\nSpeaking about sloth (Lat. \"acedia\") Thomas points out that every deed which \"by its very nature is contrary to charity is a mortal sin\". An effect of such deed is the destruction of \"spiritual life which is the effect of charity, whereby God dwells in us.\" Sin of a mortal character is always committed with the consent of reason: \"Because the consummation of sin is in the consent of reason\"'. (cf. STh II–IIae q.35 a.3) Venial and mortal sins can be compared to sickness and death. While venial sin impairs full healthy activity of a person, mortal sin destroys the principle of spiritual life in him/her.\n\nRoman Catholic doctrine distinguishes between personal sin (also sometimes called \"actual sin\") and original sin. Personal sins are either mortal or venial.\n\nMortal sins are sins of grave (serious) matter, where the sinner performs the act with full knowledge and deliberate consent. (cf. CCC 1857)\n\nThe act of committing a mortal sin destroys charity, i. e. the grace in the heart of a Christian; it is in itself a rejection of God (CCC1855). If left un-reconciled, mortal sins may lead to eternal separation from God, traditionally called damnation.\n\nVenial sins are sins which do not meet the conditions for mortal sins. The act of committing a venial sin does not cut off the sinner from God's grace, as the sinner has not rejected God. However, venial sins do injure the relationship between the sinner and God, and as such, must be reconciled to God, either through the Sacrament of Reconciliation or receiving the Eucharist (after proper contrition fulfilled).\n\nBoth mortal and venial sins have a dual nature of punishment. They incur both guilt for the sin, yielding eternal punishment, and temporal punishment for the sin. Reconciliation is an act of God's mercy, and addresses the guilt and eternal punishment for sin. Purgatory and indulgences address the temporal punishment for sin, and exercise of God's justice.\n\nRoman Catholic doctrine also sees sin as being twofold: Sin is, at once, any evil or immoral \"action\" which infracts God's law and the inevitable consequences, the \"state of being\" that comes about by committing the sinful action. Sin can and does alienate a person both from God and the community. Hence, the Catholic Church's insistence on reconciliation with both God and the Church itself.\n\nThe Roman Catholic view of sin has recently expanded. Monsignor Gianfranco Girotti, Regent of the Catholic Apostolic Penitentiary, has said that \"known sins increasingly manifest themselves as behavior that damages society as a whole,\" including, for example:\n\nMortal sins, which are any severe and intentional actions that directly disobey God, are often confused with the seven deadly sins, which are pride, envy, wrath, sloth, greed, gluttony, and lust. They are not, however, the same. The seven deadly sins are called \"deadly\" because they might lead another to commit other sins. Some forms of the seven deadly sins (i.e. debilitating one's health because of their love of food) can constitute as grave matter, while others may just be venal (i.e. over-eating).\n\nAnother group of four or five sins distinguished by the Church are the sins that cry to heaven: murder, sodomy, (oppression of a people,) oppression of the weak and defrauding the laborer.\n\nMany Protestants of a Calvinist orientation teach that, due to original sin, humanity has lost any and all capacity to move towards reconciliation with God (Romans 3:23;6:23; Ephesians 2:1–3); in fact, this inborn sin turns humans away from God and towards themselves and their own desires (Isaiah 53:6a). Thus, humans may be brought back into a relationship with God only by way of God's rescuing the sinner from his/her hopeless condition (Galatians 5:17–21; Ephesians 2:4–10) through Jesus' substitutionary atonement (Romans 5:6–8; Colossians 2:13–15; 1 Timothy 2:5–6). According to traditional Reformed theology and classical Lutheranism, Salvation is \"sola fide\" (by faith alone); \"sola gratia\" (by grace alone); and is begun and completed by God alone through Jesus (Ephesians 2:8,9). This understanding of original sin (Romans 5:12–19), is most closely associated with Calvinist doctrine (see total depravity) and Lutheranism. Calvinism allows for the relative or nominal \"goodness\" of humanity through God's common grace upon both those predestined to salvation and those predestined to damnation, upon the regenerate and the unregenerate. Methodist Arminian theology adapts the concept by stating that humans, entirely sinful and totally depraved, can only \"do good\" through God's \"prevenient grace\".\n\nThis is in contrast to the Roman Catholic teaching that while sin has tarnished the original goodness of humanity prior to the Fall, it has not entirely extinguished that goodness, or at least the \"potential\" for goodness, allowing humans to reach towards God to share in the Redemption which Jesus Christ won for them. Some Protestants and Orthodox Christians hold similar views.\n\nThere is dispute about where sin originated. Some who interpret the king of Tyre in Ezekiel 28 as a symbol for Satan believe sin originated when Satan coveted the position that rightfully belongs to God. The origin of individual sins is discussed in James 1:14–15 – \"but each one is tempted when, by his own evil desire, he is dragged away and enticed. Then, after desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin; and sin, when it is full-grown, gives birth to death.\" (NIV)\n\nWithin some branches of Protestantism, there are several defined types of sin (as in Roman Catholicism):\n\n\nThe (Chalcedonian) Eastern Orthodox as well as the (non-Chalcedonian) Oriental Orthodox use \"sin\" both to refer to humanity's fallen condition and to refer to individual sinful acts. In many ways the Orthodox Christian view of sin is similar to the Jewish, although neither form of Orthodoxy makes formal distinctions among \"grades\" of sins.\n\nThe Eastern Catholic Churches, which derive their theology and spirituality from same sources as the Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox, tend not to adhere to the Roman Catholic distinction between mortal and venial sin taught by the Latin Church. Like the Orthodox Churches, however, the Eastern Catholic Churches do make a distinction between sins that are serious enough to bar one from Holy Communion (and must be confessed before receiving once again) and those which are not sufficiently serious to do so. In this respect, the Eastern Tradition is similar to the Western, but the Eastern Churches do not consider death in such a state to automatically mean damnation to \"hell.\"\n\nJehovah's Witnesses believe that sin is inherited, like a disease, and has been passed on from generation to generation of humans, beginning with Adam and Eve, whom Witnesses believe are real historical characters. They believe that it began with the Devil, and then with humans wanting to decide for themselves what was \"Good and Bad.\" They believe that at that very moment they lost perfection and began to die. Jehovah's Witnesses consider human beings to \"be\" souls, and so when a human dies due to sin, they believe that his soul dies as well. They believe that Jesus is the only human ever to have lived and died sinless.\n\nIn Christianity, it is generally understood that the death of Jesus was a sacrifice that relieves believers of the burden of their sins. However, the actual meaning of this precept is very widely debated. The traditional teaching of some churches traces this idea of atonement to blood sacrifices in the ancient Hebraic faith.\n\nChristian theologians have presented different interpretations of atonement:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26246590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26246590", "title": "Color symbolism", "text": "Color symbolism\n\nColor symbolism in art and anthropology refers to the use of color as a symbol in various cultures. There is great diversity in the use of colors and their associations between cultures and even within the same culture in different time periods. The same color may have very different associations within the same culture at any time. Diversity in color symbolism occurs because color meanings and symbolism occur on an individual, cultural and universal basis. Color symbolism is also context-dependent and influenced by changes over time. Symbolic representations of religious concepts or articles may include a specific color with which the concept or object is associated. There is evidence to suggest that colors have been used for this purpose as early as 90,000 BC.\n\nRed is often associated with love, passion, and lust. It is frequently used in relation to Valentine's Day. It can also be used to signify danger or warning. For instance, it is used for stop signs and fire engines. In China, red is often used to symbolize good luck or happiness, and is used for many holidays or weddings.\n\nBlue is the color of the ocean and the sky; it often symbolizes serenity, stability, or inspiration. It can be a calming color, and symbolize reliability. In the Catholic Church, the Virgin Mary is most often depicted wearing blue, to symbolize her divinity. Blue is widely used for baby boys' clothes or bedrooms, although the reason blue is so strongly associated with boys is debated.\n\nYellow is a color often associated with sunshine or joy. It is sometimes used in association with cowardice or fear, i.e, the phrase \"yellow-bellied\". Children tend to like this color, and it is used to market products to children; it is also used for school buses and taxi cabs since it is such a bright, noticeable color.\n\nGreen is most often used to represent nature, healing, or fertility, since it's such a dominant color in nature. It can be a very relaxing color but is also used in the US to symbolize money, greed, or jealousy. Saying that someone is \"green\" means they're inexperienced or new.\n\nBlack, in Western culture, is considered a negative color and usually symbolizes death, grief, or evil. People often wear black for mourning, although this practice isn't as wide-spread as it was in the past.\n\nWhite most often symbolizes perfection, faith, innocence, softness, and cleanliness. Brides often wear white dresses to symbolize virginity or purity.\n\nPink is associated with softness, femininity, sweetness, and love. However, it was formerly used as a masculine color, frequently used for baby boys; it wasn't until the early 20th century that the gender roles of pink and blue were reversed.\n\nColor plays an important role in setting expectations for a product and communicating its key characteristics. Color is the second most important element that allows consumers to identify brand packaging.\n\nMarketers for products with an international market navigate the color symbolism variances between cultures with targeted advertising. The car manufacturer, Volkswagen ran a commercial in Italy with a black sheep in the middle of a larger flock symbolizing those who owned a VW Golf as someone unique and self-assured among a crowd of others who were not. In several cultures around the world, a black sheep represents an outcast and is seen as something undesirable. In Italy, a black sheep represents confidence and independence. There are many additional variances in color symbolism between cultures. Cold is symbolized by blue in East Asia, the USA, and Sweden while warmth is symbolized by yellow in the USA and by blue in The Netherlands. Sometimes the meanings of colors are in stark opposition across geographic boundaries, requiring products marketed to specific demographics to account for those changes across different markets. For instance, feminity is symbolized by blue in The Netherlands and pink in the USA., whereas masculinity is symbolized by blue in Sweden and the USA, and red in the UK and France. In some instances color symbolism in marketing is constructed. For companies whose products are defined by the name of their color their sales are susceptible to the symbolism and association of that name. In one example, a company selling a paint color named “off white” more than doubled its sales by renaming the same color as “ancient silk.”\n\nColor symbolism has morphed over time. Between the 5th and 17th centuries color was largely related to in a religious context. Blue was symbolic of heaven and white of purity. Today, purity is still symbolized by white in Australia and the USA but by blue in other countries like India. Similarly, the church influenced the perception of colors like crimson and purple. Largely because the dyes for these colors could only be sourced from precious pigments, religious figures like Madonna, Cardinals, and the Virgin were seen in scarlet and purple. Today, purple symbolizes evil and infidelity in Japan, but the same is symbolized by blue in East Asia and by yellow in France. Additionally, the sacred color of Hindu and Buddhist monks is orange. The Renaissance was also a time in which black and purple were colors of mourning. Today, Mourning or death is symbolized by white in East Asia, black in the USA, and blue in Iran, while happiness is symbolized by white in Australia and NZ, and yellow in China.\n\nThere is a general disagreement over whether reactions to color and their symbolism are a result of cultural conditioning or of instinct. Several studies concluded that color is part of the social learning process because of the significant symbolism within the culture. High quality, trustworthiness and dependability are symbolized by blue in the USA, Japan, Korea and green and yellow in China - as well as purple in China, South Korea and Japan. Because of these variances, critical cues vary across cultures. Warning signs are coded differently as danger is symbolized by green in Malaysia, and red in the USA and Mexico. The same color of green symbolizes envy in Belgium and the USA, but envy is symbolized by yellow in Germany and Russia, and purple in Mexico. Even the colors that denote powerful emotions vary. Love is symbolized by green in Japan, red and purple in China, Korea, Japan and the USA. Unluckiness is symbolized by red in Chad, Nigeria and Germany. Luckiness is symbolized by red in China, Denmark and Argentina. The traditional bridal color is red in China and white in the USA. Ambition and desire are symbolized by red in India.\n\nColor has different meanings in different countries.  We can specifically look at the Arabic culture and take it into consideration. We can start with the color white. In the Arabic culture, white is thought of as the color that is symbolic for nature.  Since it related with nature, it has a meaning that is one of positivity. It also relates with that of being clean and pure.  White is a color that is commonly worn during prayers and with that, it symbolizes purity. White’s positive connotation carries out into other aspects.  It is also used as a symbol for positivity in the future. White is also used to symbolize the end of war. You will also see women adorn white at their weddings as a sign of positivity.  Since doves are white, they share the symbolic meaning that comes with the color.  This in turn causes them to be associated with positivity of good news. \n\nWhen you look at the color Black in Arabic culture you can find that it is related to funerals and death. Women will often wear black to funerals in order to show that they are sad for those who have passed.  Also relating to death, black is associated with hell. Black is also used to symbolize dark.  Hell is thought to be a dark black place associating black as negative.  Black in general is looked at as having negative connotations around it. For example, the symbolism of a black heart refers to someone who is unkind.  \n\nGreen is a color that is commonly found in Islam.  It is a color found in nature and with this, it is associated with and represents goodness. Green is a color that has an overall positive meaning.   The color green also has to do with truthfulness, again going with positivity.  If you look at phrases, the symbolic meanings are generally positive.  If you look at the phrase green hand, it relates to being generous which is a positive thing. \n\nRed has an overall positive association with it. Often you will find that red is a color associated with roses and blood.  The color red has to do with love and passion.  In sayings you can find it to have either a negative or positive meaning such as the term red eye relates with anger.  The Arabic culture also associates this color with death.\n\nBlue is related with positivity when discussing it with nature, otherwise it can be related with negative connotations. When used in the phrase blue eyes, it refers to jealousy. A blue body relates with death and therefore is associated with negativity.\n\nYellow is another color that is also associated with nature and the sun.  Again, since it is a color related with nature, it takes on the symbolic meaning of positivity.  Gold is also categorized under here and is also takes on a positive meaning.  Generally, when used in phrases, the color yellow has to do with negativity.  For example, a yellow smile means to be mean. \n\nColor symbolism is displayed in many ways. One of the most common ways we see color symbolism displayed in through our emotions. In this article Color-emotions associations: Past experience and personal preference it takes a look at how we connect colors with our emotions and how it depends on a person’s preference and or their past experiences. \n\n"}
{"id": "178942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=178942", "title": "Conceptual art", "text": "Conceptual art\n\nConceptual art, sometimes simply called conceptualism, is art in which the concept(s) or idea(s) involved in the work take precedence over traditional aesthetic, technical, and material concerns. Some works of conceptual art, sometimes called installations, may be constructed by anyone simply by following a set of written instructions. This method was fundamental to American artist Sol LeWitt's definition of Conceptual art, one of the first to appear in print:\n\nTony Godfrey, author of \"Conceptual Art (Art & Ideas)\" (1998), asserts that conceptual art questions the nature of art, a notion that Joseph Kosuth elevated to a definition of art itself in his seminal, early manifesto of conceptual art, \"Art after Philosophy\" (1969). The notion that art should examine its own nature was already a potent aspect of the influential art critic Clement Greenberg's vision of Modern art during the 1950s. With the emergence of an exclusively language-based art in the 1960s, however, conceptual artists such as Art & Language, Joseph Kosuth (who became the american editor of Art-Language), and Lawrence Weiner began a far more radical interrogation of art than was previously possible (see below). One of the first and most important things they questioned was the common assumption that the role of the artist was to create special kinds of material objects.\nThrough its association with the Young British Artists and the Turner Prize during the 1990s, in popular usage, particularly in the UK, \"conceptual art\" came to denote all contemporary art that does not practice the traditional skills of painting and sculpture. It could be said that one of the reasons why the term \"conceptual art\" has come to be associated with various contemporary practices far removed from its original aims and forms lies in the problem of defining the term itself. As the artist Mel Bochner suggested as early as 1970, in explaining why he does not like the epithet \"conceptual\", it is not always entirely clear what \"concept\" refers to, and it runs the risk of being confused with \"intention\". Thus, in describing or defining a work of art as conceptual it is important not to confuse what is referred to as \"conceptual\" with an artist's \"intention\".\n\nThe French artist Marcel Duchamp paved the way for the conceptualists, providing them with examples of prototypically conceptual works — the readymades, for instance. The most famous of Duchamp's readymades was \"Fountain\" (1917), a standard urinal-basin signed by the artist with the pseudonym \"R.Mutt\", and submitted for inclusion in the annual, un-juried exhibition of the Society of Independent Artists in New York (which rejected it). The artistic tradition does not see a commonplace object (such as a urinal) as art because it is not made by an artist or with any intention of being art, nor is it unique or hand-crafted. Duchamp's relevance and theoretical importance for future \"conceptualists\" was later acknowledged by US artist Joseph Kosuth in his 1969 essay, \"Art after Philosophy\", when he wrote: \"All art (after Duchamp) is conceptual (in nature) because art only exists conceptually\".\n\nIn 1956 the founder of Lettrism, Isidore Isou, developed the notion of a work of art which, by its very nature, could never be created in reality, but which could nevertheless provide aesthetic rewards by being contemplated intellectually. This concept, also called \"Art esthapériste\" (or \"infinite-aesthetics\"), derived from the infinitesimals of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz – quantities which could not actually exist except conceptually. The current incarnation () of the Isouian movement, Excoördism, self-defines as the art of the infinitely large and the infinitely small.\n\nIn 1961 the term \"concept art\", coined by the artist Henry Flynt in his article bearing the term as its title, appeared in a proto-Fluxus publication \"An Anthology of Chance Operations\". \nHowever, it assumed a different meaning when employed by Joseph Kosuth and by the English Art and Language group, who discarded the conventional art object in favour of a documented critical inquiry, that began in Art-Language The Journal of conceptual art in 1969, into the artist's social , philosophical and psychological status. By the mid-1970s they had produced publications, indices, performances, texts and paintings to this end. In 1970 \"Conceptual Art and Conceptual Aspects\", the first dedicated conceptual-art exhibition, took place at the New York Cultural Center.\n\nConceptual art emerged as a movement during the 1960s – in part as a reaction against formalism as then articulated by the influential New York art critic Clement Greenberg. According to Greenberg Modern art followed a process of progressive reduction and refinement toward the goal of defining the essential, formal nature of each medium. Those elements that ran counter to this nature were to be reduced. The task of painting, for example, was to define precisely what kind of object a painting truly is: what makes it a painting and nothing else. As it is of the nature of paintings to be flat objects with canvas surfaces onto which colored pigment is applied, such things as figuration, 3-D perspective illusion and references to external subject matter were all found to be extraneous to the essence of painting, and ought to be removed.\n\nSome have argued that conceptual art continued this \"dematerialization\" of art by removing the need for objects altogether,\nwhile others, including many of the artists themselves, saw conceptual art as a radical break with Greenberg's kind of formalist Modernism. Later artists continued to share a preference for art to be self-critical, as well as a distaste for illusion. However, by the end of the 1960s it was certainly clear that Greenberg's stipulations for art to continue within the confines of each medium and to exclude external subject matter no longer held traction.\nConceptual art also reacted against the commodification of art; it attempted a subversion of the gallery or museum as the location and determiner of art, and the art market as the owner and distributor of art. Lawrence Weiner said: \"Once you know about a work of mine you own it. There's no way I can climb inside somebody's head and remove it.\" Many conceptual artists' work can therefore only be known about through documentation which is manifested by it, e.g. photographs, written texts or displayed objects, which some might argue are not in themselves the art. It is sometimes (as in the work of Robert Barry, Yoko Ono, and Weiner himself) reduced to a set of written instructions describing a work, but stopping short of actually making it—emphasising the idea as more important than the artifact. This reveals an explicit preference for the \"art\" side of the ostensible dichotomy between art and craft, where art, unlike craft, takes place within and engages historical discourse: for example, Ono's \"written instructions\" make more sense alongside other conceptual art of the time.\n\nLanguage was a central concern for the first wave of conceptual artists of the 1960s and early 1970s. Although the utilisation of text in art was in no way novel, only in the 1960s did the artists Lawrence Weiner, Edward Ruscha, Joseph Kosuth, Robert Barry, and Art & Language begin to produce art by exclusively linguistic means. Where previously language was presented as one kind of visual element alongside others, and subordinate to an overarching composition (e.g. Synthetic Cubism), the conceptual artists used language in place of brush and canvas, and allowed it to signify in its own right. Of Lawrence Weiner's works Anne Rorimer writes, \"The thematic content of individual works derives solely from the import of the language employed, while presentational means and contextual placement play crucial, yet separate, roles.\"\n\nThe British philosopher and theorist of conceptual art Peter Osborne suggests that among the many factors that influenced the gravitation toward language-based art, a central role for conceptualism came from the turn to linguistic theories of meaning in both Anglo-American analytic philosophy, and structuralist and post structuralist Continental philosophy during the middle of the twentieth century. This linguistic turn \"reinforced and legitimized\" the direction the conceptual artists took. Osborne also notes that the early conceptualists were the first generation of artists to complete degree-based university training in art. Osborne later made the observation that contemporary art is \"post-conceptual\" in a public lecture delivered at the Fondazione Antonio Ratti, Villa Sucota in Como on July 9, 2010. It is a claim made at the level of the ontology of the work of art (rather than say at the descriptive level of style or movement).\n\nThe American art historian Edward A. Shanken points to the example of Roy Ascott who \"powerfully demonstrates the significant intersections between conceptual art and art-and-technology, exploding the conventional autonomy of these art-historical categories.\" Ascott, the British artist most closely associated with cybernetic art in England, was not included in Cybernetic Serendipity because his use of cybernetics was primarily conceptual and did not explicitly utilize technology. Conversely, although his essay on the application of cybernetics to art and art pedagogy, \"The Construction of Change\" (1964), was quoted on the dedication page (to Sol Lewitt) of Lucy R. Lippard's seminal \"Six Years: The Dematerialization of the Art Object from 1966 to 1972\", Ascott's anticipation of and contribution to the formation of conceptual art in Britain has received scant recognition, perhaps (and ironically) because his work was too closely allied with art-and-technology. Another vital intersection was explored in Ascott's use of the thesaurus in 1963 , which drew an explicit parallel between the taxonomic qualities of verbal and visual languages – a concept would be taken up in Joseph Kosuth's \"Second Investigation, Proposition 1\" (1968) and Mel Ramsden's \"Elements of an Incomplete Map\" (1968).\n\n\"By adopting language as their exclusive medium, Weiner, Barry, Wilson, Kosuth and Art & Language were able to sweep aside the vestiges of authorial presence manifested by formal invention and the handling of materials.\"\nAn important difference between conceptual art and more \"traditional\" forms of art-making goes to the question of artistic skill. Although skill in the handling of traditional media often plays little role in conceptual art, it is difficult to argue that no skill is required to make conceptual works, or that skill is always absent from them. John Baldessari, for instance, has presented realist pictures that he commissioned professional sign-writers to paint; and many conceptual performance artists (e.g. Stelarc, Marina Abramović) are technically accomplished performers and skilled manipulators of their own bodies. It is thus not so much an absence of skill or hostility toward tradition that defines conceptual art as an evident disregard for conventional, modern notions of authorial presence and of individual artistic expression.\n\nThe first wave of the \"conceptual art\" movement extended from approximately 1967 to 1978. Early \"concept\" artists like Henry Flynt, Robert Morris, and Ray Johnson influenced the later, widely accepted movement of conceptual art. Conceptual artists like Dan Graham, Hans Haacke, and Lawrence Weiner have proven very influential on subsequent artists, and well known contemporary artists such as Mike Kelley or Tracey Emin are sometimes labeled \"second- or third-generation\" conceptualists, or \"post-conceptual\" artists.\n\nMany of the concerns of the conceptual art movement have been taken up by contemporary artists. While they may or may not term themselves \"conceptual artists\", ideas such as anti-commodification, social and/or political critique, and ideas/information as medium continue to be aspects of contemporary art, especially among artists working with installation art, performance art, net.art and electronic/digital art.\n\n\n\nBooks\n\n\nEssays\n\n\nExhibition catalogues\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2310106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2310106", "title": "Dari Alexander", "text": "Dari Alexander\n\nDari Alexander (born October 26, 1969) is an American news anchor. She is the co-anchor for the news at 5 and 10 p.m. on FOX 5 NY WNYW with Steven Lacy, in New York City. She also was a Former Fox News Anchor and Correspondent.\n\nAlexander was born and raised in New York City. She graduated from Mount Holyoke College with a degree in politics and Spanish literature. After college, she returned to New York and worked as a paralegal in the Organized Crime Unit at the New York County District Attorney's Office and later as Secretary of the Banking Board in the New York State Banking Department. She began her career working as a field producer for CBS News. Prior to joining FNC, Alexander served as a weekend anchor/reporter for WFAA-TV (ABC) in Dallas. She also worked in Columbus, Ohio for then NBC O & O, WCMH-TV. Alexander was also one of the first reporters to report from Ground Zero on September 11, 2001. \nDuring her tenure at WNYW Alexander has co-anchored the \"Fox 5 News at 6\" with Rick Folbaum and solo, until she replaced Rosanna Scotto in 2008 when she moved to Good Day New York. Dari became the Co-Anchor of the Fox 5 news at 5 and 10 pm with Ernie Anastos, until 2014 when Anastos moved to his 6pm news show. She now sits alongside with her Co-anchor Steve Lacy, for the 5 and 10pm newscasts. Alexander briefly anchored alongside Greg Kelly in 2012, until he returned to Good Day New York. Before that, she was an anchor and correspondent at the Fox News Channel, where she anchored \"Fox News Live,\" hours and traveled extensively overseas, including to Kabul, Afghanistan and to Pakistan, where she covered the murder of Daniel Pearl.\n\nAlexander lives in Manhattan with her husband Will Alexander and their two children, a son (b. 2005) and a daughter (b. 2007). Alexander authored a diet and weight loss book, Quick & Clean Diet, published in 2013, with a foreword by Mehmet Oz. She is involved with many charities, including: Literacy Advocacy, The InnerCity Scholarship Fund and The FreshAir Fund.\n\n"}
{"id": "171512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171512", "title": "Dead Man Walking (book)", "text": "Dead Man Walking (book)\n\nDead Man Walking (1993) is a work of non-fiction by Sister Helen Prejean, a Roman Catholic nun and one of the Sisters of Saint Joseph of Medaille based in New Orleans. Arising from her work as a spiritual adviser to two convicted murderers on Death Row, the book is set largely at the Louisiana State Penitentiary (Angola) in West Feliciana Parish, Louisiana. It examines moral issues related to the men's acknowledgement of their crimes and to the state's use of the death penalty.\n\nPrejean has become a leading American advocate for the abolition of the death penalty. Her campaign was initiated following her correspondence and visits that she maintained with two convicted murderers. She started this ministry in 1982. The first man was Elmo Patrick Sonnier, who was sentenced to death by electric chair. She visited Sonnier in prison and agreed to be his spiritual adviser in the months leading up to his death. The second was Robert Lee Willie, for whom she also served as spiritual adviser.\n\nPrejean gained insight into the minds of these convicted murderers and the process involved in executions, including its effects on the prison guards and other personnel. She became convinced that the state's use of the death penalty was morally wrong and began speaking out against capital punishment. At the same time, she founded \"Survive\", an organization devoted to providing counseling to the families of victims of violence.\n\nThe title of the book comes from a phrase once traditional in American prisons, to designate a man condemned to death. They were held on what was known as Death Row, deprived of most social contact and unable to work or participate in prison programs. Prior to the 1960s, when guards would lead a condemned man down the prison hallway, they would call out, \"Dead man walking! Dead man walking here!\" The origin of the phrase is debated. It may have been to warn other staff or prisoners, to let them know they should be on their guard since a death row prisoner has nothing to lose and could be violent. It may also have been a kind of honorific declamation, to let other prisoners know that they should move out of the way - death row prisoners being seen as an elite within the prison system. Alternatively, the call may have been a stigma attached to the condemned man, to remind others within earshot not to touch him in order not to catch his bad luck. In any case, its symbolism is clear: the condemned prisoner, in the eyes of the law, was dead already.\n\nIn 1995, a film based on the book was made, starring Susan Sarandon and Sean Penn.\n\nThe book was adapted as an opera of the same name, composed by Jake Heggie with a libretto by playwright Terrence McNally. It premiered at the San Francisco Opera in October 2000. The international premiere of the opera was in August 2003, in Adelaide. It has been produced in several other cities, including by the Union Avenue Opera in St. Louis, Missouri.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2630798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2630798", "title": "Eliza Clark (actress)", "text": "Eliza Clark (actress)\n\nEliza Clark is an American actress and playwright. She is the sister of Spencer Treat Clark. She has acted in minor parts in movies and commercials. In 1990 she briefly played Jessica Buchanan on the soap opera \"One Life to Live\".\n\nClark has also directed many productions at Yale University since September 2003, including Wendy Wasserstein's \"Uncommon Women and Others\", Rebecca Gilman's \"The Glory of Living\" and Wendy MacLeod's \"House of Yes\".\n\nShe is also a playwright; her play, \"The Metaphysics of Breakfast\", appeared in the 2005 New York Fringe Festival. She is a member of Youngblood at the Ensemble Studio Theatre, which is a collective of professional playwrights. She writes for and performs in the web sitcom, \"Inconvenient Molly\".\n\nAt Yale University, she was a member of the improvisational comedy group Viola Question, and the sketch comedy group The Fifth Humour.\n\nHer plays have appeared at Provincetown Playhouse, and in the Yale Playwrights Festival at the Yale Repertory Theater, for three years in a row: \"The Metaphysics of Breakfast\" (2005), \"Hiccup\" (2006), and \"Puppy.\" Her most recent play, \"Edgewise\" performed at the Cherry Lane Theater in New York City in August 2008. She is the recipient of the 2010 P73 playwriting fellowship from Page 73 Productions.\n\nIn 2010 she was on the writing staff of the AMC series \"Rubicon\".\n\nIn 2012, Clark married screenwriter and film director Zack Whedon. The two met while writing for \"Rubicon\".\n"}
{"id": "4849234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4849234", "title": "Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity", "text": "Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity\n\nThe Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity () also variously known as the Epistles of the Brethren of Sincerity, Epistles of the Brethren of Purity and Epistles of the Brethren of Purity and Loyal Friends was a large encyclopedia in 52 treatises (\"rasā'il\") written by the mysterious Brethren of Purity of Basra, Iraq sometime in the second half of the 10th century CE (or possibly later, in the 11th century). It had a great influence on later intellectual leading lights of the Muslim world, such as Ibn Arabi, and was transmitted as far abroad within the Muslim world as Al-Andalus. The \"Encyclopedia\" contributed to the popularization and legitimization of Platonism in the Islamic world.\n\nThe identity and period of the authors of the \"Encyclopedia\" have not been conclusively established, though the work has been mostly linked with the Isma'ilis. Some suggest that besides Ismailism, the Brethren of Purity also contains elements of Sufism, Mu'tazilism, Nusairism, Rosicrucianism, etc.\n\nThe subject of the work is vast and ranges from mathematics, music, astronomy, and natural sciences, to ethics, politics, religion, and magic—all compiled for one, basic purpose, that learning is training for the soul and a preparation for its eventual life once freed from the body.\n\nAuthorship of the \"Encyclopedia\" is usually ascribed to the mysterious \"Brethren of Purity\" a group of Ismaili scholars placed in Basra, Iraq sometime around 10th century CE . While it is generally accepted that it was the group who authored at least the 52 rasa'il, the authorship of the \"Summary\" (\"al-Risalat al-Jami'a\") is uncertain; it has been ascribed to the later Majriti but this has been disproved by Yves Marquet (see the \"Risalat al-Jami'a\" section).\nSince style of the text is plain, and there are numerous ambiguities, due to language and vocabulary, often of Persian origin, it has been suggested that the authors of the encyclopedia were of Persian descent.\n\nSome philosophers and historians such as Tawhidi, Ibn al-Qifti, Shahrazuri disclosed the names of those allegedly involved in the development of the work: Abu Sulayma Bisti, Muqaddasi, 'Ali ibn Harun, Zanjani, Muahmmad ibn Ahmad Narhruji, 'Awfi. All these people are according to Henry Corbin, Ismailis\n\nFurther perplexities abound; the use of pronouns for the authorial \"sender\" of the \"rasa'il\" is not consistent, with the writer occasionally slipping from third person to first-person (for example, in Epistle 44, \"The Doctrine of the Sincere Brethren\"). This has led some to suggest that the \"rasa'il\" were not in fact written co-operatively by a group or consolidated notes from lectures and discussions, but were actually the work of a single person. Of course, if one accepts the longer time spans proposed for the composition of the \"Encyclopedia\", or the simpler possibility that each \"risala\" was written by a separate person, sole authorship would be impossible.\n\nThe subject matter of the \"Rasa'il\" is vast and ranges from mathematics, music, logic, astronomy, the physical and natural sciences, as well as exploring the nature of the soul and investigating associated matters in ethics, revelation, and spirituality.\n\nIts philosophical outlook was Neoplatonic and it tried to integrate Greek philosophy (and especially the dialectical reasoning and logic of Aristotelianism) with various astrological, Hermetic, Gnostic and Islamic schools of thought. Scholars have seen Ismaili and Sufi influences in the religious content, and Mu'tazilite acceptance of reasoning in the work. Others, however, hold the Brethren to be \"free-thinkers\" who transcended sectarian divisions and were not bound by the doctrines of any specific creed.\n\nTheir unabashed eclecticism is fairly unusual in this period of Arabic thought, characterised by fierce theological disputes; they refused to condemn rival schools of thought or religions, instead insisting that they be examined fairly and open-mindedly for what truth they may contain:\nIn total, they cover most of the areas an educated person was expected to understand in that era. The epistles (or \"rasa'il\") generally increase in abstractness, finally dealing with the Brethren's somewhat pantheistic philosophy, in which each soul is an emanation, a fragment of a universal soul with which it will reunite at death; in turn, the universal soul will reunite with Allah on Doomsday. The epistles are intended to transmit right knowledge, leading to harmony with the universe and happiness.\n\nOrganizationally, it is divided into 52 epistles. The 52 rasa'il are subdivided into four sections, sometimes called books (indeed, some complete editions of the \"Encyclopedia\" are in four volumes); in order, they are: 14 on the Mathematical Sciences, 17 on the Natural Sciences, 10 on the Psychological and Rational Sciences, 11 on Theological Sciences.\n\nThe division into four sections is no accident; the number four held great importance in Neoplatonic numerology, being the first square number and for being even. Reputedly, Pythagoras held that a man's life was divided into four sections, much like a year was divided into four seasons. The Brethren divided mathematics itself into four sections: arithmetic was Pythagoras and Nicomachus' domain; Ptolemy ruled over astronomy with his \"Almagest\"; geometry was associated with Euclid, naturally; and the fourth and last division was that of music. The fours did not cease there- the Brethren observed that four was crucial to a decimal system, as formula_1; numbers themselves were broken down into four orders of magnitude: the ones, tens, hundreds, and thousands; there were four winds from the four directions (north, south, east, west); medicine concerned itself with the four humours, and natural philosophers with the four elements of Empedocles.\n\nAnother possibility, suggested by Netton is that the veneration for four stems instead from the Brethren's great interest in the \"Corpus Hermeticum\" of Hermes Trismegistus (identified with the god Hermes, to whom the number four was sacred); that hermetic tradition's magical lore was the main subject of the 51st rasa'il.\n\nNetton mentions that there are suggestions that the 52nd risalah (on talismans and magic) is a later addition to the \"Encyclopedia\", because of intertextual evidence: a number of the rasa'il claim that the total of rasa'il is 51. However, the 52nd risalah itself claims to be number 51 in one area, and number 52 in another, leading to the possibility that the Brethren's attraction for the number 51 (or 17 times 3; there were 17 rasa'il on natural sciences) is responsible for the confusion. Seyyed Hossein Nasr suggests that the origin of the preference for 17 stemmed from the alchemist Jābir ibn Hayyān's numerological symbolism.\n\nBesides the fifty-odd epistles, there exists what claims to be overarching summary of the work, which is not counted in the 52, called \"The Summary\" (\"<nowiki>al-Risalat al-Jami'a</nowiki>\") which exists in two versions. It has been claimed to have been the work of Majriti (d. \"circa\" 1008), although Netton states Majriti could not have composed it, and that Yves Marquet concludes from a philological analysis of the vocabulary and style in his \"La Philosophie des Ihwan al-Safa\" (1975) that it had to have been composed at the same time as the main corpus.\n\nLike conventional Arabic Islamic works, the Epistles have no lack of time-worn honorifics and quotations from the Qur'an, but the \"Encyclopedia\" is also famous for some of the didactic fables it sprinkled throughout the text; a particular one, the \"Island of Animals\" or the \"Debate of Animals\" (embedded within the 22nd rasa'il, titled \"On How The Animals and their Kinds are Formed\"), is one of the most popular animal fables in Islam. The fable concerns how 70 men, nearly shipwrecked, discover an island where animals ruled, and began to settle on it. They oppressed and killed the animals, who unused to such harsh treatment, complained to the King (or Shah) of Djinns. The King arranged a series of debates between the humans and various representatives of the animals, such as the nightingale, the bee, and the jackal. The animals nearly defeat the humans, but an Arabian ends the series by pointing out that there was one way in which humans were superior to animals and so worthy of making animals their servants: they were the only ones Allah had offered the chance of eternal life to. The King was convinced by this argument, and granted his judgement to them, but strongly cautioned them that the same Qur'an that supported them also promised them hellfire should they mistreat their animals.\n\nMore metaphysical were the four ranks (or \"spiritual principles\"), which apparently were an elaboration of Plotinus' triad of Thought, Soul, and the One, known to the Brethren through \"The Theology of Aristotle\" (a version of Plotinus' \"Enneads\" in Arabic, modified with changes and paraphrases, and attributed to Aristotle); first, the Creator (\"al-Bārī\") emanated down to Universal Intellect (\"al-'Aql al-Kullī\"), then to Universal Soul (\"al-Nafs\"), and through Prime Matter (\"al-Hayūlā al-Ūlā\"), which emanated still further down through (and creating) the mundane hierarchy. The mundane hierarchy consisted of Nature (\"al-Tabī'a\"), the Absolute Body (\"al-Jism al-Mutlaq\"), the Sphere (\"al-Falak\"), the Four Elements (\"al-Arkān\"), and the Beings of this world (\"al-Muwalladāt\") in their three varieties of animals, minerals, and vegetables, for a total hierarchy of nine members. Furthermore, each member increased in subdivisions proportional to how far down in the hierarchy it was, for instance, Sphere, being number seven has the seven planets as its members.\n\nAnother area in which the Brethren differed was in their conceptions of nature, in which they rejected the emanation of Forms that characterized Platonic philosophy for a quasi-Aristotelian system of substances:\n\nThe 14th edition (EB-2:187a; 14th Ed., 1930) of the Encyclopædia Britannica described the mingling of Neoplatonism and Aristotelianism this way:\nThe text in the \"Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity\" describes biological diversity in a manner similar to the modern day theory of evolution. The contexts of such passages are interpreted differently by scholars.\n\nIn this document some modern day scholars note that “chain of being described by the Ikhwan possess a temporal aspect which has led certain scholars to view that the authors of the Rasai’l believed in the modern theory of evolution”. According to the Rasa’il “But individuals are in perpetual flow; they are neither definite nor preserved. The reason for the conservation of forms, genus and species in matter is fixity of their celestial cause because their efficient cause is the Universal Soul of the spheres instead of the change and continuous flux of individuals which is due to the variability of their cause”. This statement is supporting the concept that species and individuals are not static, and that when they change it is due to a new purpose given. In the Ikhwan doctrine there are similarities between that and the theory of evolution. Both believe that “the time of existence of terrestrial plants precedes that of animals, minerals precede plants, and organism adapt to their environment”, but asserts that everything exists for a purpose.\n\nMuhammad Hamidullah describes the ideas on evolution found in the \"Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity\" (\"The Epistles of Ikhwan al-Safa\") as follows:\n\nEnglish translations of the \"Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity\" were available from 1812, hence this work may have had an influence on Charles Darwin and his inception of Darwinism. However Hamidullah's \"Darwin was inspired by the Epistles of the Ihkwan al-Safa\" theory sounds unlikely as Charles Darwin comes from an evolutionist family with his well-known physician grandfather, Erasmus Darwin, author of the poem The Origin of Sociey on evolution, was one of the leading Enlightenment evolutionists.\n\nThe 48th epistle of the \"Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity\" features a fictional Arabic narrative. It is an anecdote of a \"prince who strays from his palace during his wedding feast and, drunk, spends the night in a cemetery, confusing a corpse with his bride. The story is used as a gnostic parable of the soul's pre-existence and return from its terrestrial sojourn\".\n\nComplete editions of the encyclopedia have been printed at least three times:\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia\" has been widely translated, appearing not merely in its original Arabic, but in German, English, Persian, Turkish, and Hindustani. Although portions of the \"Encyclopedia\" were translated into English as early as 1812, with the Rev. T. Thomason's prose English introduction to Shaikh Ahmad b. Muhammed Shurwan's Arabic edition of the \"Debate of Animals\" published in Calcutta, a complete translation of the \"Encyclopedia\" into English does not exist as of 2006, although Friedrich Dieterici (Professor of Arabic in Berlin) translated the first 40 of the epistles into German; presumably, the remainder have since been translated. The \"Island of Animals\" have been translated several times in differing completion; the fifth risalah, on music, has been translated into English as have the 43rd through the 47th epistles.\n\nThe first complete Arabic critical edition and fully annotated English translation of the \"Rasa’il Ikhwan al-Safa’\" with commentaries is being published by a team of experts as editors, translators and scholars. This constitutes a philosophy bi-lingual book series that is published by Oxford University Press in association with the Institute of Ismaili Studies in London; and this large-scale project is chaired by the series General Editor Nader El-Bizri. This book series was initiated by an introductory volume of studies edited by Nader El-Bizri, which was published by Oxford University Press in 2008, and followed in 2009 by the voluminous Arabic critical edition and annotated English translation with commentaries of \"The Case of the Animals Versus Man Before the King of the Jinn\" (Epistle 22). - Additional volumes have since been published: ‘On Logic’ (Eps. 10-14; 2010), ‘On Music’ (Ep. 5; 2010), ‘On Magic’ (Ep. 52a; 2011); 'On Arithmetic and Geometry' (Eps. 1-2; 2012); 'On the Natural Sciences' (Eps. 15-21; 2013), 'On Geography' (Ep. 4; 2014), 'On Astronomia' (Ep. 3; 2015). \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20521150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20521150", "title": "Fan-funded music", "text": "Fan-funded music\n\nFan-funded music is a type of crowdfunding that specifically pertains to music. Often, fan-funded music occurs in conjunction with direct-to-fan marketing. Fans of music have the option to donate and collectively raise money with the goal of jump-starting the career of a given musical artist. The fan-funding of music occurs primarily through web-based services using a business model for crowdfunding. Fans are typically given rewards based on their monetary contributions.\n\nArtistShare.com<br>\nArtistShare is documented as being the first fan-funded website for music. The service lets musicians fund their projects utilizing a \"fan-funding\" model. In exchange for funding on a particular project, contributors receive various benefits. ArtistShare emphasizes on their website that for each project, the artist is in no way required to relinquish ownership of copyright, as this model is not a work made for hire.\n\nIndiegogo.com<br>\nIndiegogo is a Crowd funding portal that allows users to create a page for their funding campaign, set up an account with PayPal, make a list of \"perks\" for different levels of donation, then create a social media-based publicity effort. Users publicize the projects themselves through Facebook, Twitter and similar platforms. The site takes a 4% fee for successful campaigns. For campaigns that fail to raise their target amount, users have the option of either refunding all money to their contributors at no charge or keeping all money raised minus a 9% fee. Unlike similar sites such as Kickstarter, Indiegogo disburses the funds immediately, when the contributions are collected through the user's PayPal accounts. Indiegogo also offers direct credit card payment acceptance through their own portal. Those funds are disbursed up to two weeks after the conclusion of a campaign.\n\nKickstarter.com<br>\nOften hailed as the most successful and well-known Crowd funding platform. Kickstarter has been featured on CNN, The New York Times, TIME magazine, BBC and Wired Magazine. Kickstarter is a Crowd funding website that has successfully funded everything from films, games, and music to art, design, and technology. Project creators choose a deadline and a goal minimum of funds to raise. If the chosen goal is not gathered by the deadline, no funds are collected. The platform is open to backers from anywhere in the world and to creators from the US or the UK. Kickstarter takes a 5% fee and Amazon.com takes an additional 3%.\n\nPledgeMusic.com<br>\nPledgeMusic is an international Crowd funding platform geared specifically toward musicians. Users (Pledgers) receive exclusive content in exchange for their contributions to artists fundraising campaigns. PledgeMusic does not retain any ownership or rights to any music created through the platform. Funding transactions occur only after a goal is successfully met. The site is staffed my music industry moguls and maintains partnerships with major players in the digital and physical music spheres allowing for numerous options to help record, produce, manufacture, market, and distribute artist's music, merchandise, and tickets. The site charges a 15% flat fee. PledgeMusic operates on two types of artist campaigns, direct-to-fan and a Pre-order campaign. In a pre-order campaign, fans are charged immediately upon pledging. This type of campaign is designed for labels and artists who have already completed a recording, and are looking for a strategic way to pre-sell and market it.\n\nRocketHub.com<br>\nRocket Hub is an established crowd funding platform open to anyone including musicians. Project holders on Rocket Hub have the option to keep raised proceeds even if the fundraising pledge was not successful. Rocket Hub is a completely open platform, meaning that anyone can create a fan-funding campaign and there is no screening process before the project goes live. The site takes an 8% commission off successful projects.\n\nSellaband.com<br>\nSellaband is a crowd funding platform that allows registered Artists to use a direct-to-fan approach to finance albums or concerts. Artists will pledge an amount, the minimum funding target being € 3000, and the maximum funding target, €250.000. Artists may also choose if they want to integrate a revenue sharing option into their funding. The minimum incentive is a download.\n\nThe British rock band Marillion are considered to be one of the first artists to have truly harnessed the power of the internet as a means of music distribution and direct contact with fans, which began with setting up a website in 1996 and raising $60,000 to help finance a 1997 North American tour. They have also been described by \"The Guardian\" music journalist Alexis Petridis as \"the undisputed pioneers\" of the fan-funded music model, beginning with the distribution of their 2001 release \"Anoraknophobia\". Amidst a dissolving relationship with their record label and management team, the band calculated that they would need 5,000 fans to order the album to finance the project. However, they needed the money up-front, before the record was released. They turned to their mailing list and asked fans to pre-order the album in what was later described by the BBC as \"a unique funding campaign\". Pre-sales well exceeded their 5,000-unit target (reaching about 12,000 pre-sales total). Marillion have since released several other albums based on a fan-funded model, receiving a £360,000 advance for their 15th studio album \"Happiness Is the Road\".\n\nUnofficially dubbed the \"queen\" of Kickstarter, Amanda Palmer is an example of one of the most successful fan-funded music campaigns of all time. On April 30, 2012, Palmer ran a campaign on Kickstarter, with a goal of $100,000 to fund her newest studio album, \"Theatre Is Evil\". By the end of May 2012, Palmer had amassed almost $1.2 million, ultimately receiving donations from nearly 25,000 individuals. By comparison, the average successful project on Kickstarter at the time raised about $5,000.\n\nBoston-based singer/songwriter Ellis Paul is another important case study in the field of fan-funded music. His 2010 release, The Day After Everything Changed, was funded completely by fan donations. Instead of using a traditional crowd-funding platform, he adapted the online merchandise platform Nimbit to his own fan-funding scheme. Paul set up a tiered donation hierarchy, ranging from the $15 Street Busker level, up to the $10,000 Woody Guthrie level. Fans received different perks based on the tier at which they donated. The project proved to be highly successful, with total donations exceeding $100,000. Paul is putting his fan-funding to the test again; he is currently in the midst of fan-funding a new studio album set to release sometime in 2013.\n\nTokyo-based garage metal band Electric Eel Shock is another group that has seen some success in the way of fan-funded music. In 2004 they offered a \"SAMURAI 100\" package, which gave fans the opportunity to secure \"guest list for life\" status. The package cost £100 and the band raised £10,000 by selling 100 such packages.\n\nAs a business practice, fan-funded music is not without its criticism. Fan-funded music has gained popularity in the past few years however, money raised through these platforms still is only estimated to make up 1% of the amount spent on albums and tours. Many bands start off with fan funding to finance their initial album but then get signed to a record label. Major labels are signing artists with successful fan funded campaigns using the campaigns as a filter before investing in them. Other, more well-known bands have used fan funding to distance themselves from their label contracts and manage their own music. There has yet to be a band that has used fan funding to fully finance their career. In 2001, \"The Guardian\" journalist Gareth McLean was scathing of Marillion's pioneering efforts to continue their career without a label by dealing directly with their fans on the Internet, writing: \"They have, they explained, decided to eschew the machinations of the record industry in order to be closer to the people. (One suspects that their decision occurred round about the time that the record industry decided to shun Marillion).\"\n\nSome claim that artists overestimate the cost of recording an album and dishonestly solicit more money than they need via fan-funding. With advancements in digital technology, recording equipment has become increasingly compact and more affordable. It is no longer a requirement for an artist to need a large recording studio that houses oversized equipment. This increase in accessibility that the everyday musician has today has made it possible for artists to record their own albums from their homes. Since there are no restrictions for what artists can ask for, it is not unheard of for artists to inflate the expected costs and then keep the extra money as profit.\n\nCritics also point out that the fan-funded music model has turned bands into marketers and sales personnel. Artists must be able to develop personal marketing strategies in order to get the money to even begin working on their music. Artists must put lots of time and effort into creating a campaign that engages their fans and gets them to donate to their project. This can prove difficult for any artist to create a campaign that does not come off as \"[a] shrill and desperate-modern-day pan-handling by entitled go-getters.\" While fan-funded platforms are accessible for any musician, they have become over-crowded with both artists and anyone with an idea. \"For every legitimately exciting pitch there are dozens of musicians, filmmakers and designers pleading for funds to complete ill-conceived projects.\"\n\nRunning fan-funded campaigns cost bands a large sum of money. They must pay for video production for the video that every campaign has, a producer and an engineer to mix and master their album, and fulfill all of the rewards promised to their fans as well as the shipping on them. Often the money made off these projects ends up going to paying the costs of running a successful fan funded campaign. For example, a large portion of the $1 million that Amanda Palmer raised went into funding her Kickstarter project itself. Artists such as Palmer have huge fan bases to appeal to for money, but for the average artist raising that kind of money isn't a reliable method.\n\n"}
{"id": "37910936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37910936", "title": "Fasting spittle", "text": "Fasting spittle\n\nFasting spittle – saliva produced first thing in the morning, before breakfast – has been used to treat a wide variety of diseases for many hundreds of years. Spittle cures are usually considered to be more effective if fasting spittle is used.\n\nAn early recorded use of spittle as a cure comes from the Gospel of St Mark, believed to have been written in about 70 AD:\n\nWriting at about the same time as Mark, the Roman natural philosopher Pliny commented in his \"Natural History\" that fasting spittle was efficacious in the treatment of ophthalmia, and that the fasting spittle of a woman was particularly beneficial for treating bloodshot eyes.\n"}
{"id": "33760922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33760922", "title": "Formal balance", "text": "Formal balance\n\nFormal balance, also called symmetrical balance, is a concept of aesthetic composition involving equal weight and importance on both sides of a composition.\n"}
{"id": "42168285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42168285", "title": "Harlan Hall", "text": "Harlan Hall\n\nHarlan Hall is a historic opera house located at 603 Locust St. in Marshall, Illinois. The opera house opened in 1872 to provide a venue for theatrical performances in Marshall. The building has an Italianate design with tall, narrow windows, wide bracketed eaves, and a steeply sloping roof. Both local and traveling theatrical acts performed in the theater, which also hosted concerts, public meetings, and other events. The opera house had a livery stable on its first floor for its patrons' horses, an unusual feature for contemporary theaters. In 1904, B. F. Johnson purchased the building and converted it to a movie theater; while it still served as a civic auditorium, the building no longer showed theatrical performances after this point. The building has since held a Moose Lodge, and its first floor has been converted to a commercial space.\n\nThe building was added to the National Register of Historic Places on November 29, 2001.\n"}
{"id": "1272918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1272918", "title": "Herman Charles Merivale", "text": "Herman Charles Merivale\n\nHerman Charles Merivale MA (27 January 1839 – 17 August 1906) was an English dramatist and poet, son of Herman Merivale. He also used the punning pseudonym Felix Dale.\n\nA barrister, writer, and civil servant who was Permanent Under-Secretary of the India Office, he was educated at Harrow School and Balliol College, Oxford, where Algernon Charles Swinburne and Charles Bowen were his contemporaries. He graduated BA in 1861. At his father's home he met many distinguished men, including Lord Robert Cecil (afterwards Prime Minister Lord Salisbury), who became a lifelong friend. His friends in literary and dramatic circles included William Makepeace Thackeray, Edward Bulwer-Lytton, Matthew Arnold, Anthony Trollope, W. S. Gilbert, Arthur Sullivan, Edmund Yates, Charles Dickens and others. \nFollowing his father's death in 1874 he gave up the law in favour of literature and the theatre. Merivale wrote many farces and burlesques. For John Hollingshead he produced a burlesque, \"The Lady of Lyons Married and Settled\", performed at the Gaiety Theatre (5 October 1878), and \"Called There and Back\" (15 October 1884). \"The Butler\" (1886) and \"The Don\" (1888) were both written for the actor J. L. Toole. In writing \"The Don\", and other works, Merivale was assisted by his wife, Elizabeth, the daughter of John Pittman, whom he married in London on 13 May 1878.\n\nSuffering from depression for many years, following a breakdown in 1879 he went to Australia on the advice of his physician, and then returned with his health recovered, only to discover that the power of attorney he had left with a defaulting solicitor had cost him his entire fortune.\n\nA few years before his death Merivale became a Roman Catholic. He died suddenly of heart failure on 14 January 1906 at 69 Woodstock Road, Acton, Middlesex, and was buried in his father's grave in Brompton Cemetery. He had no children and his widow was granted a civil-list pension of £50 in 1906.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16496567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16496567", "title": "Indecs Content Model", "text": "Indecs Content Model\n\nindecs (an acronym of \"interoperability of data in e-commerce systems\"; written in lower case) was a project partly funded by the European Community \"Info 2000\" initiative and by several organisations representing the music, rights, text publishing, authors, library and other sectors in 1998-2000, which has since been used in a number of metadata activities. A final report and related documents were published; the indecs Metadata Framework document is a concise summary.\n\nindecs provided an analysis of the requirements for metadata for e-commerce of content (intellectual property) in the network environment, focusing on semantic interoperability. Semantic interoperability deals with the question of how one computer system knows what the terms from another computer system mean (e.g. if A says \"owner\" and B says \"owner\", are they referring to the same thing? If A says \"released\" and B says \"disseminated\", do they mean different things?).\n\nindecs was built from a simple generic model of commerce (the \"model of making\"): a model of the life cycle of any kind of content from conception to the final physical or digital copies. The top-level model is summarised as \"people make stuff; people use stuff; and (for commerce to take place) people make deals about the stuff\". If secure machine-to-machine management of commerce is to be possible, the stuff, the people and the deals must all be securely identified and described in standardised ways that machines can interpret and use. Central to the analysis is the assumption that it is possible to produce a generic mechanism to handle complex metadata for all different types of content. So, for example, instead of treating sound carriers, books, videos and photographs as fundamentally different things with different (if similar) characteristics, they are all recognised as creations with different values of the same higher-level attributes, whose metadata can be supported in a common environment.\n\nThe indecs analysis supports interoperability of at least five different types:\n\n\nThe indecs project developed a framework, described in detail in the final project documents, within which such interoperability could be achieved. indecs proposed four principles as key to the management of identification:\n\n\nindecs also produced a definition of metadata:\n\nThe indecs framework stresses the significance of relationships, which lie at the heart of the indecs analysis. It underlines the importance of unique identification of all entities (since otherwise expressing relationships between them is of little practical utility). Finally, it raises the question of authority: the identification of the person making the claim is as significant as the identification of any other entity.\n\nThe underlying assumptions or axioms of the indecs approach are (1) Metadata is critical; (2) Stuff is complex; (3): Metadata is modular; and (4) Transactions need automation.\n\nThe indecs Framework does not presuppose any specific business model or legal framework; it can be used to describe transactions of copyrighted, open source, or freely available material.\n\nThe framework has been developed further as a generic ontology-based approach dealing with defined types of entity and attribute, and the relators that link them within a contextual model structure (where context is defined as an intersection of \"time\" and \"place\", in which \"entities\" may play roles). Its main use to date has been in applications of commercial transactions of content and in some library-related applications. Examples of applications using this approach include:\n\nOne of the deliverables of the indecs project was a specification for a Directory of Parties. This led to a subsequent project, Interparty, funded under the European Commission's Information Society Technologies Programme, to design and specify a network to support interoperability of party identification (for both natural and corporate names) across different domains, building on the indecs principles. InterParty was not proposed as a replacement for existing schemes for the identification of participants in the intellectual property domain (e.g. national library name authority files or systems oriented towards the needs of rights licensing) but as a means of effecting their interoperation. Some of its conclusions have been used elsewhere, e.g. in the work on the proposed ISO ISNI (International Standard Name Identifier).\n\nOther developments are continuing, notably through the OntologyX semantic engineering tools and services from Rightscom. The approach also has much in common with the CIDOC Conceptual Reference Model (CRM), an ontology for cultural heritage information, and the Functional Requirements for Bibliographic Records (FRBR) model in the library world.\n\nIn June 2009 a new initiative, the Vocabulary Mapping Framework (VMF), was announced by a consortium of partners. Funded by JISC, in Nov 2009 this delivered (as the first phase of an ongoing program of work) an extensive and authoritative mapping of vocabularies from nine major content metadata standards, creating a downloadable tool to support interoperability across communities. The mapping is also extensible to other standards. The work builds on the principles of interoperability established in the indecs Content Model, and is an expansion of the existing RDA/ONIX Framework for Resource Categorization into a comprehensive vocabulary of resource relators and categories, which will be a superset of those used in major standards from the publisher/producer, education and bibliographic/heritage communities. The International DOI Foundation, which fully endorses this work, is to provide a web hosting facility for the Framework as part of its commitment to promoting the wider use of interoperable metadata, and will use the vocabulary mapping wherever possible to support the association of metadata with DOI names \n\nIndecs uses one common underlying structure which may be considered in three views: the general view; the commerce view; and the intellectual property (legal) view. An intellectual property right is a legal concept, with terms defined in a series of international conventions and treaties and under national law. The precise characteristics by which recognition of intellectual property rights is secured are elusive and are settled by editorial, commercial or, ultimately, by a legal judgement. Indecs does not attempt to replace such legal considerations, though a specific set of legal elements might be included in an indecs-based structure, and the indecs framework specifically includes some definitions from major international treaties such as the Berne Convention and the WIPO Copyright Treaty.\n\nDifferent models of the life cycle of content may have important differences, not least in the specific meaning attached to the names of terms they employ. FRBR, indecs and CRM were each informed by different functional requirements, and so evolved different mechanisms for dealing with the issues that seemed most important to them. Each is a particular view on the \"universe of discourse\" of resources and relationships: there are many valid views. Broadly, they are compatible, and effective integration of metadata from schemes based on them should be achievable, but they must be handled with care. As an example: the terms abstraction, manifestation, item and expression are often used in considering content life cycles (e.g. a sound recording is the expression of a musical work during a recording session at a particular place and time, and is distinct from, say, the master tape made, which is a manifestation). These were dealt with in indecs, but may have slightly different meanings in other schemes. Such an analysis of meaning of a term from a scheme is possible in indecs by mapping the precise definitions into further terms with precise definitions within the framework. indecs and other frameworks based on it continue to be developed and refined through the process of implementation.\n"}
{"id": "11679421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11679421", "title": "Judith Wright Centre of Contemporary Arts", "text": "Judith Wright Centre of Contemporary Arts\n\nThe Judith Wright Centre of Contemporary Arts is a performing arts center in Fortitude Valley in Brisbane, Queensland. The venue was renovated and re-opened as an arts centre in October 2001. The Centre is named after Judith Wright, who was a celebrated Queensland poet and an advocate for Indigenous rights and an environmental activist. Wright was one of two Australian poets considered for the Nobel Prize for Literature. She died June 25, 2000 in Canberra.\n\nThe Centre is managed by the Queensland Government through Arts Queensland. Affectionately called The Judy, is located at corner Berwick Street and 420 Brunswick Street in Fortitude Valley.\n\nThe venue includes performance spaces that are well equipped for lighting, sound and AV and the three rehearsal studios for dance, theatre and music feature natural light. The audience experience is intimate with a relaxed welcoming style of cabaret and racked seating. The main performance space is a black box style with plenty of flexibility to stage a diverse range of performances. Further info at The venue encompasses to adjacent buildings, one two-story and the other five-story. The larger structure was originally a factory for Bushell's tea. Redevelopment of the site was designed by COX Architects & Planners and built by Multiplex Constructions.\n\nThe Centre is home to some of Queensland's top arts and cultural organisations. Its facilities include a 300-seat performance space, rehearsal spaces for theatre, music, dance and circus, an art gallery, artist studios, coffee shop, bar and restaurant. It is home to a number of organisations including Ausdance Queensland, Carbon Media, contemporary circus Circa, contemporary dance company Expressions Dance Company, Flying Arts alliance Inc., The Institute of Modern Art, Qld branch of Matchbox Pictures and Ultra Linea Architects.\n\nEach year, the venue hosts the Queensland Poetry Festival.\nThe premier event for contemporary music BIGSOUND is held annually in September bringing together about 120 top emerging bands and national and international music buyers for a conference that attracts speakers including Peter Garrett, Nick Cave, Claire Bowdich and more.\n\n"}
{"id": "12233812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12233812", "title": "Levantine pottery", "text": "Levantine pottery\n\nPottery and ceramics have been produced in the Levant since prehistoric times. \n\nThe history of pottery in the region begins in the Late Neolithic period, sometimes known as Pottery Neolithic (PN) or occasionally, based on a supposed local sequence of the site of Jericho, Pottery Neolithic A.\n\nThere is no good evidence for pottery production in Early Neolithic (Pre-pottery Neolithic/PP) times, but the existence of pyrotechnology that allowed humans to attain temperatures in excess of 1000 °C for reducing limestone to lime to make plaster, indicates a level of technology ripe for the discovery of pottery and its spread. In the PPN period portable vessels of lime plaster, called \"vaisselles blanche\" or \"White Ware\" served some of the functions that pottery later fulfilled. These vessels tended to be rather large and coarse and were somewhat rare.\n\nThere are some indications that pottery may have been in use in the third and final phase of Early Neolithic, PPNC (recognized Early Neolithic phases are, beginning with the earliest, PPNA, PPNB and PPNC); however such artifacts are rare, their provenance equivocal and the issue remains in doubt. Approximately sometime in the late 6th millennium BC pottery was introduced into the southern Levant and it became widely used. The supposedly sophisticated forms and technological and decorative aspects suggested to archaeologists that it must have been received as an imported, technological advance from adjacent regions to the north and was not developed locally. The evidence for this hypothesis, however, remains equivocal for lack of documentation in the archaeological record. This hypothesis also does not take into account the bulk of simple, rudely fashioned vessels that were part of the ceramic repertoire of this period.\n\nBecause of discoveries of earlier pottery traditions made starting in the 1990s, the time frame for the initial Late Neolithic ceramic period is thought to be roughly 7000-6700 BCE. These earliest pottery traditions may be known in literature as 'Initial Pottery Neolithic' in the Balikh River area of Syria and Turkey, for example Tell Sabi Abyad. Or it may be known as 'Halula I' in the Syrian Euphrates area; the main site is Tell Halula. Also, it may be known as 'Rouj 2a' in Northern Levantine Rouj basin (Idlib, Syria).\n\nBy the earliest PN phase pottery was ubiquitous and it remained so for virtually all periods in the southern Levant until modern times. Exceptions were in desert areas where semi-nomads favored less heavy, fragile and bulky arrangements. Pottery styles, based mostly on form, fabric and decorative elements have been used to help identify chrono-cultural phases. White ware remained in use, but it seems to have remained rare and the vessels were often small and rather delicate. It is possible that not a few such vessels were found and identified as pottery.\n\nThe earliest PN phase is associated with the site of Sha'ar HaGolan in the Jordan Valley. This pottery is sometimes called \"Yarmukian Ware\". The diagnostic pottery typical of this period is somewhat sophisticated. Its most outstanding aspect is the use of long, narrow, incised bands of lines filled with herringbone decoration, often painted red or yellow. Forms of vessels may be quite delicate and lug handles on small jars with long necks are not uncommon. More common, coarser and less well made vessels are also present but are less diagnostic for the period.\n\nCommon or cruder wares generally have simple shapes and are often less well finished and are not decorated. Vessel walls of this class are often of uneven thickness and look 'lumpy'. This crude aspect is often further emphasized by grass-wiped exteriors and the negative impressions left by straw or vegetal tempers (i.e. chopped up dried grass or weeds)which combust and leave hollows after firing. These inclusion were either added intentionally, or are the unintentional result of poorly levigated (i.e. a process of purifying clay by removal of natural, non-clay inclusions such as stones and plant materials) or unlevigated clay, and are characteristic of this coarse Neolithic pottery. Later Neolithic pottery tends to favor the use of different tempers, sand, gravel, small stones and sometimes grog (ground up pottery). Much Neolithic pottery is low-fired and did not attain temperatures far above 600°C, which is more or less the minimum required for creating pottery from low-fired clays. Probably these vessels were pit-fired rather than fired in kilns, although such an hypothesis remains to be proven. To date there is no direct evidence in excavation based literature on how Neolithic peoples of the southern Levant fired their pottery. \n\nLater Neolithic pottery has less distinctive features. Work at Jericho by K. Kenyon suggested to her two periods of Late Neolithic, based on the existence of coarser and finer pottery groups. The former, supposedly representing a less sophisticated and earlier occupation, was labeled PNA (Pottery Neolithic A); the latter was called PNB (Pottery Neolithic B). Many researchers now believe the difference to be one of function rather than evidence for chronological differences between these two groups, since examples of each are often found in contemporary contexts. Thus, PNB types are often designated as fine or luxury wares.\n\nThe site of Munhatta, excavated by J. Perrot, has contributed a large series of ceramic assemblages dated to the Neolithic period. In one phase there are some extraordinarily sophisticated ceramic vessels of especially finely levigated, highly polished or burnished (polishing of almost dry, leather hard, surfaces of unfired clay to produce a smooth surface that becomes shiny when fired), black fabric. Other pottery suggests that some potters in this period, dated later than an earlier, \"Yarmukian\" phase at the site (identified by Sha'ar HaGolan type pottery), were highly skilled craftspeople. One researcher, Y. Garfinkel, refers to this phase as \"Jericho IX\" after a stratum and associated pottery excavated by J. Garstang at Jericho (he excavated at Jericho prior to Kenyon). The decorated pottery of this period often has red paint in the form of stripes, sometimes in large, wide herringbone-like decorations. \n\nNot all pottery from these phases is so chrono-culturally diagnostic. Most vessels are of plain wares and utilitarian types. In addition, other methods of decoration are known in the later Neolithic. They include the use of slips (color applied to an entire vessel), burnishing and incising (e.g. notching, combing, slashing, etc.). Wavy lines of combing, often combined with painting are one of the distinctive types of Late Neolithic decoration associated with the Rabah phase (see below). The use of red slips and paints is common in this and later periods, and is probably the direct outcome of clays used, which are rich in iron oxides that tend, under some conditions, to fire to earthy red tones ranging from brown to orange and brick-red. These same clays, when fired in a reducing atmosphere (i.e. devoid of oxygen) often become gray or black in color. Dark colored, gray to black cores on some pots indicate incomplete firing\n\nThe most recent PN phase is named after the site of Wadi Rabah, excavated by J. Kaplan. Y. Garfinkel relegates this final LN period to Early Chalcolithic. The distinction seems to be mostly a matter of terminology. Since there is no definitive break between Late Neolithic and Early Chalcolithic, each researcher must decide what is Neolithic and what is Early Chalcolithic. The situation is even more complicated because there appears to be considerable regional variation in Neolithic pottery assemblages and not a little confusion as to what constitutes chrono-culturally related assemblages. That is a function of the generally poor preservation of PN sites and the way in which they were excavated. \nSummary: Neolithic pottery may well have arrived as a full-blown technological set from more northerly regions. Pottery appears to have become ubiquitous in the southern Levant by late in the 6th millennium and remained as an integral part of human material culture up to the present. Some local potters showed particular skill in their production, which suggests, as is the case with flint knappers, real craft specialization. That is related to skills in finding and preparing raw materials, fashioning pots, decorating them, and controlling the pyrotechnology needed to turn them into pottery. Some aspects of pottery, form, fabric, modes of decoration are relatively reliable diagnostic indicators of chrono-cultural identities of human society. Pottery, mostly in the form of sherds, often makes up the bulk of material culture artifacts found on excavated sites dating from the PN period.\n\nThe Chalcolithic (or \"Copper-Stone Age\") is a chrono-cultural period that may have lasted for over a millennium, although the date of its end is somewhat problematic. The earliest phases of this period are associated with pottery that is little different from the pottery of the Latest Neolithic periods (see Late Neolithic Pottery). While plain wares probably dominate most assemblages, it is the decorated types which have been paid most attention to by scholars. There are few well excavated sites and no good stratigraphic sequences that have produced enough well-stratified pottery to allow for the development of any reliable chronological sequence in pottery styles, although some are claimed. Pottery of the Chalcolithic period can, for the present, be divided into two major chronological groups, Early and Late Chalcolithic. The more distinctive is the later group, known from some extensively excavated sites which have yielded large ceramic repertoires. There appear to be regional differences, especially between the northern and southern spheres of the southern Levant and at sites to the east. Some of these differences may also be chronological; new 14C (radiocarbon) dates suggest one type site, Teleilat el Ghassul in the northern Aravah Valley in Jordan, is somewhat earlier in date than a group of sites in the Beersheva Basin. Garfinkel's attempt to divide this period into three phases, Early, Middle and Late, is based on a number of spurious assemblages and is lacking in authority. While such chronological distinctions may be possible, not enough is presently known of the sequence of the Chalcolithic for determining it. \n\nPottery of the Early Chalcolithic period is often similar to that of the Late Neolithic. One diagnostic feature of this period is found in pottery made on mats, probably of straw. When this was the case, the clay was pressed into the weave of the mat, leaving an impression which potters sometimes did not remove. Thus some bases of vessels in this period bear distinct patterns of mats on which they were made. Other techniques used for pottery production in this period include painting and slipping of exteriors, and the limited use of incised decoration, sometimes in a fish bone pattern but of usually much larger dimensions than that associated with Yarmukian pottery. One specialized form associated with this period is the so-called 'torpedo' vessel, a long narrow, thick-walled jar with two large, vertical lugs attached to its upper, almost tube-like body. Pottery of the Late Chalcolithic period sees a continuation of many of the basic shapes and types of the earlier period, but much of the typical decoration of the earlier Chalcolithic is discontinued.\n\nLate Chalcolithic pottery is known for some special shapes including: 1)cornets—cone-like vessels with narrow apertures and long, highly tapered sides ending in exaggerated, long stick-like bases; 2) (so-called)churns or bird vessels, barrel-shaped vessels, often with bow shaped neck, one flat end and two lugs at either horizontal end of barrel, intended for suspension; 3) small bowls with straight sides tapering to flat bases (so-called V-shaped despite the flat bases; fenestrated-pedestaled bowls, small vases with vertical lugs pierced circularly, vertical tube handles, large holemouths with broad shoulders and relatively narrow bases. \n\nSmall bowls and cornets of this period can be especially thin and appear to have been turned on wheels, but they are only finished that way. Recent research on the techniques of bowl making in this period indicate these vessels, while turned on a wheel, were actually only finished that way by scraping, after having been fashioned by hand. There is no evidence to show that the fast potter's wheel was used in the Chalcolithic period for 'throwing pots' using centripetal force. The wavy line or indented ledge handle makes its appearance in the central littoral in this period, presaging its adoption as the most common type of handle throughout the Early Bronze Age. Common decorations include raised, rope-like bands on some vessels, red painting and pie-crust like decoration on rims of large vessels (excepting holemouths. Combing, that produced wide, broad, flat lines, is sometimes found on jars of the Late Chalcolithic. Pronounced regional variations as well as functions of sites determine the kinds of vessels, types of clay used, and the forms of decoration preferred. Chalcolithic pottery technology and morphology greatly influenced the ceramic styles of the succeeding Early Bronze I period, especially in the southern region.\n\nSpecialized production of ossuaries (boxes intended to hold bones after decarnation; i.e., secondary burials) is well documented in this period. It includes many types of rectangular boxes, some with extremely elaborate facades. Some anthropomorphic visages appear on these ossuaries in three-dimensional sculpting (rare), often with the nose particularly prominently, while other features are generally painted. Some ossuaries are fashioned of typical jars, altered and adorned for this specific mortuary-related function.\n\nAbandonment of many sites at the end of the Chalcolithic period and major changes in material culture led archaeologists to name the post Chalcolithic period the \"Early Bronze Age,\" a misnomer (only copper without tin {copper + tin = bronze} was in use) that has become an accepted convention. Pottery continued to be made in quantity and, until quite recently there was thought to have been a thoroughgoing break in traditions from earlier periods, in typology and morphology. While major differences are known and became greater as the Early Bronze Age progressed, the earliest phases show more than a modicum of continuity with Chalcolithic potting traditions. The Early Bronze Age may now be divided up into three sequential phases, Early Bronze I, Early Bronze II and Early Bronze III. Some scholars include an Early Bronze IV in the Early Bronze Age. That period is known to other scholars as Middle Bronze I, Early Bronze-Middle Bronze and Intermediate Bronze. On the basis of pottery styles there is some justification for using the term Early Bronze IV. \n\nEarly Bronze I (ca. 3500 - ca. 3000 BCE) pottery in the southern region is obviously derived from Chalcolithic traditions. Similar types of vessels are known and they were, in the earliest phases, made according to traditional Chalcolithic methods of manufacture. In the north there seems to be much less continuity, but that may be more of perception of the archaeological record. Unfortunately there is no good Chalcolithic sequence in the north from which one may learn precisely what the latest Chalcolithic facies is.\nWhat is clear is that in the earliest phases of EB I there is a pronounced regionalism that becomes less visible over time. Regionalism is particularly marked in the earliest phase of Early Bronze I, with a dichotomy between northern and southern spheres of influence and a mosaic of more localized traditions within those larger spheres. In the southern region pie-crust type decoration is commonly found on large storage jars, while for the first time this type of detail is also found on holemouth vessels. The ledge handle becomes prominent in this period; its earliest exponents, obviously inherited from the preceding period, is notable for almost invariably having a wavy-line edge in many variations. Only rather late in the period and in specific regions was this appendage made with smooth edges. Poor preservation at most southern sites has limited knowledge of the typology of this early phase.\n\nPottery from the northern region fully recognized as Early Bronze I, shows less evidence of owing its inspiration to the preceding period. However, this may merely be a function of limited perception by researchers who fail to distinguish the pottery of what may be an initial phase of Early Bronze I. A slightly later phase is well known from a number of sites, the best known of which is Yiftah'el in the Beit Netofa Valley system. The site has yielded a relatively large corpus of reasonably preserved vessels. The most distinctive pottery of this period is known as \"Gray Burnished Ware\" or sometimes as \"Esdraelon Ware\" or Proto-Urban C pottery. This ware is known for its generally gray color, highly burnished finish, and a limited and distinctive range of morphological types, almost invariably bowls. Most of the bowls have a carinated (angled) profile, some of them with flat projections forming an undulating line in a birds eye view. Similar morphological types are also found in red or in buff colors. Additional ceramic types have features that are reminiscent of Chalcolithic types. In addition the ledge handle is also prominent in this period. Pottery is always handmade and in the earliest phases appears to have been home-made by local potters working within general traditions of how a pot should look, but with little slavish copying. The high loop handle was popular in this period for jugs and juglets.\n\nA second phase of Early Bronze I may be seen in both the northern and southern regions. In the north much pottery is painted or slipped red and burnished. Gray Burnished Ware continues to be made but examples of this ware, in the earlier period finely made and obviously luxury items, are less well made. A related morphological type is a curved bowl with a line of evenly spaced conical protrusions just below the rim on the exterior of the vessel. Such bowls are also known to be red-slipped in the north; in the south similar types are very rare and neither slipped nor burnished. Grain-wash, a kind of painting that leave a pattern that is slightly reminiscent of wood (sometimes called band-slip) makes its appearance in this period in the north. Pithoi are of different types. Two well-known types are distinguished by their rims; one has a pronounced bow-rim, while the other has a thickened rim with regular striations that give it its name, 'rail rim'. In the south there remains a deal of regionality, stressed by two types of decorated wares which only slightly overlap in their distribution. They are 'line painted group', red lines usually on a light background. Within that group is a very distinctive 'basket style', that imitates basketry. This type was commonly found in the Hill Country around Jerusalem and down to Jericho and Bab edh-Dhra in the Jordan Rift Valley. Further south, in the Shephela (piedmont) down to the Northern Negev is found a group of pottery with distinctive striated handles, often double stranded, and sometimes with thin coils of clay wrapped horizontally around where the handles were attached to the vessel walls. Other generic types were made, including more standardized pithoi, often with a thick, whilt quick-lime type coating on their exteriors. These pithoi were commonly decorated with flat, thin strips of clay placed horizontally around the vessel in 1 or more bands and pressed flat at regular intervals so as to give the impression of a rope. \n\nIt is in this period that there is a great increase of standardization within the larger spheres, northern and southern. While no center of pottery production has yet been found, there seems to be evidence for extensive trading of pottery between sites or possibly from a central point of production. Only extensive petrographic analyses can help to prove this and perhaps pinpoint some possible location for such centers.\n\nBy the third and final phase of Early Bronze I there remains a dichotomy between north and south, with red-burnishing as opposed to no burnishing and the extensive use of white, quick-lime slip reflecting northern and southern traditions, respectively. Extensive trade of ceramics, or possibly groups of itinerant potters seem to have left much evidence for their movement or that of pots between regions and within regions. Morphological types are shared from region to region and sphere to sphere, but often with localized details. All pottery from this period is handmade. Egyptian imported pottery if found in some sites in the south western region in this period. Most sites have only a small quantity, but a few select sites suggest prolonged contacts with Egyptians and possibly even Egyptians residing in the southern Levant.\nPottery of Early Bronze I in the north seems to presage that of Early Bronze II in terms of morphology and decoration (especially red painting and burnishing), although in the later period potters achieved similar types through very different technological approaches. Wheels seem to have come into use and new fabrics, better levigated (cleared of coarse materials) were made. So-called 'metallic ware' was introduced in this period. Some examples look as if they were imitating metal, while the high-fired fabrics give off a metallic-like ring when struck. Jugs, platters of this ware were found alongside others of more plain fabrics. 'Metallic Ware' was probably made somewhere in Lebanon or in the region of Mount Hermon and disseminated to the south, generally as far as the Jezreel Valley. Further south similar morphological types are known, but they are of different wares. Early Bronze III types continue the earlier tradition, but in the north a new ware type, transported from the Caucasus and probably brought overland via Anatolia and Syria, makes its appearance. First discovered at Tel Bet Yerah on the Kinneret (Khirbet Kerak), on the southern shores of the Sea of Galilee / Lake Kinneret (in which excavations the ware was first defined during the 1920s), it is called Khirbet Kerak Ware. \n\nIt was obviously made by potters who brought the tradition with them. Examples are of highly distinctive types, jugse and jars, sometimes with fluting, painted and highly burnished red or black or a combination of these colors, andirons, some with decorations and faces, and carinated bowls. Khirbet Kerak Ware was always handmade. Khirbet Kerak Ware is also known as Red Black Burnished Ware (sometimes hyphenated \"Red-Black\") in west Syrian and Amuq Valley contexts. In Transcaucasia - from which area it seems ultimately to have originated - the ware is also referred to as Karaz or Pulur Ware. As such, it may be associated with the later historic appearance of the people recognised historically as the Hurrians. Petrographic analyses shows some of it was made locally. Other local traditions continue and eventually influenced the pottery of the Intermediate Age, which followed.\n\nThe potter's wheel, used primarily for throwing small bowls using centrifugal force is known from this period. It represents an innovation that was continued in the following period, when it was employed to fashion rims for vessels of certain types. The piriform juglet makes its appearance in this period, but whether it has any connection with the later, Middle Bronze II vessels of analogous form, is unclear. With the exception of Khhirbet Kerak Ware, the pottery of this period continues the Early Bronze traditions and passed them on to the people who populated the small communities of the succeeding period.\n\nThis period goes under a number of names: Early Bronze/Middle Bronze, Early Bronze IV and Intermediate Bronze are just some of the appellations given it. The pottery of the earliest phases has a clear 'Early Bronze flavor'. Some of the shapes of vessels and the details of them, e.g. flat bases and folded 'envelope-like' ledge handles indicate continuity of traditions. Indeed, recent evidence of Early Bronze III sites shows that certain forms made their appearance then and continued into Early Bronze IV or even later. The four-spouted lamp is one of these; another is the 'teapot' shape. \n\nThere is a major dichotomy and great differences between the pottery of the northern and southern regions. Certain shapes are associated with particular fabric types which, can be related to one or the other region. The pottery of this period shows some innovations, including the use of the wheel for fashioning the rims of jars. In the south decoration was generally incisions, while painting was more common in the north. There are also regional variations with pottery from Transjordan somewhat different from that associated with areas west of the Jordan.\n\nUnfortunately relatively few settlements have been dug from this period and most of the pottery known is derived from tombs. That is because most of the major population centers were deserted at the end of Early Bronze III and people tended to settle in much smaller communities. Probably because they had less resources and perhaps had to work harder to keep themselves, they left relatively scanty evidence of their permanent settlements. Once it was believed that most of the people of this period were semi-nomadic, but as time goes by more and more evidence of sedentism in this period is being found. In the north is found the first evidence of infiltration of Syrian type pottery in a group of so-called 'Megiddo teapots', small, delicate, wheel-made vessels of high-fired, dark, almost metallic fabric decorated with white, wavy lines. \n\nSites have yielded evidence of local variations in decoration, morphology and fabrics. One such is the use of burnished red slips known from the cemetery at Bab edh-Dhra. In the Beth Shan region certain vessels have special painted decoration, while a cave near Tel Qedesh in Upper Galilee yielded many pedestaled lamps. Basically, the pottery of this period represents the last dying gasps of a tradition that reaches back into the local Chalcolithic (with even earlier antecedents) period and continuing on into the Early Bronze Age. There are, however, hints at the major changes to come in influences from the area to the north, Syria, which was to revolutionize ceramic traditions in the southern Levant for the next two millennia.\n\nPottery of this period owes relatively little to local antecedents. It has its roots in more northerly regions, especially in the traditions of Syria, which in turn was in contact with Mesopotamian and Anatolian regions. The pottery of the full-blown Middle Bronze Age (Middle Bronze IIA, IIB and IIC) represents a revolutionary tradition for the southern Levant.\n\nThis period is divided into three different sub periods: MBII A, B, and C. We shall see that B and C are closer linked than A. This period is diagnosed by the well-burnished red slip so often seen in the corresponding layers at digs. The slip is normally used on the smaller vessels of the period. Other decorating techniques found to be frequent amongst this period's pottery are horizontal sometimes triangular designs in black or red paint.\n\nThe second half of this period (B+C) is not seen by the burnished red slip, which all but disappeared during the eighteenth century, replaced by white/creamy slip. The pottery is often quite thinly walled and even kilned at high temperatures. Despite this, there is a progression of techniques from MBII A, which does denote continuity in society from then. Other noticeable traits of the period are a lack of painted design on most types of pottery and then only unicolored. The one color often tends to be stripes or circles with the odd bird making an appearance. These designs appear on ointment juglets.\n\nThe ointment juglet is the most important piece of pottery of the period. The fashion of juglets swings gradually from piriform ones to cylindrical. Amongst these vessels we find zoomorphic shapes like animals or human heads. These designs are often accompanied by “puncturing”, which used to be filled by white lime.\n\nLastly Chocolate on White Ware and Bichrome Ware are important pottery types appearing in the 16th century. The first of the two types consists of a thick white slip being applied followed by a dark brown paint. This type is found in the northern region of the country particularly close to the Jordan Valley. The Bichrome Ware the more important of the two can be found at Tel el-Ajjul and Megiddo among others. Its “pendant” lines or stripes that come usually as black on white slip, or more commonly as red on black can help notice this type of pottery. Bichrome was imported from Cyprus.\n\nDue to the influx of imported types of pottery, the pottery of this period must be divided into four sub groups:\n\nThe local shows that there is a clear evolution of the pottery through the MB to this period. The difference that can be remarked between the two periods is that the juglets that were once of great dispersion go down in popularity and become gray as the Late Bronze Age begins. In fact the local pottery is now mass-produced in a rough and cheap manner.\n\nPaint decoration returns to fashion, even though it is simply added to the light buff slip, and sometimes without slip. The paint shows many different geometric shapes, and sometimes inside painted on rectangular panels called metopes a sacred tree flanked by two antelopes can be found.\n\nAgain in this period we can see that the majority of this group is red paint on black background. The most common vessels that we find this type in are kraters, jars and jugs. This group, after being tested with neutron activation techniques shows that it was imported from eastern Cyprus; this includes Cypriot Bichrome ware. The major controversy is whether the Cypriot market produced Canaanite styles for exporting purposes, or whether Canaanites were producing the pottery for the home consumption in Israel. This pottery was also to be found in Megiddo locally made.\n\nThis is a selection of handmade pottery in different Ware styles. These styles are called: Base Ring, White Slip, Monochrome, White Shaved, White Painted, Bucchero. Of these different kinds, Monochrome, White Slip, and Base Ring were most used. It appears as though this type of pottery was found to be decorative in nature rather than useful. \"Bilbil juglets\" are an example of Base Ring Ware, which are pottery and have long slim necks. Archeologists speculate that bilbil juglets may have been used in the trade of opium, due to traces of opiates found in some of the styles of the jugs, as well as the shape of the vessel resembling an upturned Papaver somniferum.\nThis pottery was produced on inland Greece and throughout the Aegean islands. The fabrication technique used was fast-wheel, with fine well-levigated clay. The slip was of a light cream color to give the background to the exquisite decoration normally done in dark-brown color. Vessel types were small and closed flasks or “stirrup jars”. Towards the end of the Bronze Age there is evidence that Mycenaean Late Helladic IIIC pottery was being made by local potters from Canaanite clays. Either this indicates a resident population of Mycenaean potters in the so-called Philistine cities, or else it reflects an ethnic movement of new cultural elements into this region.\n\nTwo new major pottery groups appear in Canaan at this time. They have been related to the settlement of the Philistines and Israelites.\n\nThis is the descendant of the imported Mycenaean Ware of the past period, which is known also as Mycenaean IIIC1b. This new style of pottery is made locally. Neutron analysis proves that it could have even been made in the same workshop. It began at approximately the 12th century BC and began to disappear towards the end of the 11th century BC. The style is slightly influenced by Egypt but mostly by Canaanite. The Mycenaean tradition holds a firm grasp over the shape of the pottery (for example “stirrup jars”), whereas bottles are found to share Cypriot styles (seen by tall and narrow necks). The decoration of this new ware has changed to red and black paints on a whitish slip. Birds and fish are found to be common on Mycenaean IIIC1b but less on the new style, in fact by the second half of the 11th century the bird which was once thought to be sacred disappeared from the pottery.\n\nThe new Israelite settlers began by using basic types of Canaanite pottery until they began developing simple copies of the purchased pottery so as to meet their needs. The hallmark of this early Israelite style is the pithoi. They are scattered over these sites. Many of the storage jars had The “Collared Rim”, which were most popular to the central part of Israel, although they have since also been found to also have been manufactured in areas outside of the Israelite settlement area.\n\nDuring the period of the United Monarchy, Israelite pottery improved. Finishing techniques used a remarkable amount of red slip, applied by hand and smoothed with an irregular burnish. At the division of the kingdom, however, pottery styles broke into two separate traditions.\n\nSamaria Ware is a general name given to the pottery of Israel (the northern kingdom), even though there is a wide variety of forms and styles. They can be put into two separate groups. The first is thick walled, with a high foot and red slip (sometimes burnished), most often shaped as bowls. The second is made of fine particled clay, and decorated with concentric stripes of red/yellowish colored slip.\n\nJudean pottery is altogether different, and slowly progresses into more and more sophisticated types/styles. By the 8th/7th centuries BC, Jerusalem pottery was especially good. All over the southern kingdom, a technique known as “wheel burnish” was used. This term describes how an orange/red slip was applied, while the pot was on the wheel, and then burnished to a gloss using the potter's hands or smooth tools.\n\nDuring the Roman and early Byzantine period, the Levant was on the edge of the enormous territories where ancient Roman pottery was produced and used, often being transported long distances by sea. As in other areas, local traditions and mass-produced Roman styles co-existed, but the Levant never became a major centre producing wares for export, as the area of modern Tunisia did with its African red slip ware, and modern Turkey with Phocaean red slip, both often excavated in the Levant. However, the Levant was a production centre for large blocks of bulk raw Roman glass, which were shipped to various centres to be worked.\n\nCommon kitchen ware of the Galilee region was produced primarily in Kafr 'Inan (Kefar Hananya). One item produced there, the \"Kefar Hananya I CE type,\" is also known as the \"Galilean bowl.\" This coarse ware network was one of many sub-regional and micro-regional coarse and fine ware ceramic culture networks in operation in the Levant.\n\nIn exploring the similarities throughout the different eras, Macalister discusses Palestinian pottery in the Arab period and its shared characteristics with the ancient and modern pottery produced in Palestine. Of the pottery from the Arab period, he notes: \"...there seem to have been large globular jars, not unlike the Pre-Semitic and First Semitic barrel-shaped jars.\" He describes them as having \"ledge-handles, though of a different shape from the early ledge-handles,\" and continues to write that, \"... this kind of handle is still made in native pottery.\" Further, he notes that jar-covers from this period are strikingly similar to those of the \"earliest type of ware,\" the \"Second Semitic jar-covers, with two loops in the middle of the saucer.\" The lamps produced during the Arab period are \"either of the Hellenistic type, with long spout, or the Byzantine slipper form.\" The \"Third Semitic lamp\" which almost completely disappears during the Hellenistic period, comes into use once again during the Arab period and Macalister notes that it is still frequently used among the Arab inhabitants of Palestine.\n\nSome of the linear decoration techniques also show a \"startling resemblance to the painted ornament of the Second Semitic Period.\" Macalister notes that the major differences are that \"The slip and the paint have a fatter, richer texture in the Arab ware than in the Amorite, and the painted devices are more geometrical, more mechanical, and also more minute and 'finicking' in the later than in the earlier pottery.\" As for similarities with the Roman period, horizontal ribbing, a key characteristic of Roman era pottery, \"is as common in this period as in the Roman, but it seems to differ in outline.\"\n\nModern Palestinian pots, bowls, jugs and cups, particularly those produced prior to the establishment of Israel in 1948, are similar in shape, fabric and decoration to their ancient equivalents. Winifred Needler, Deputy Keeper of the Near Eastern Department at the Royal Ontario Museum of Archaeology writes in \"Palestine: Ancient and Modern\" (1949) that this continuity demonstrates \"how persistently the potter's craft clung to tradition through the centuries.\" R.A. Stewart Macalister, in his work \"The Excavation of Gezer\" (1912), underlines this point prefacing his overview of Palestinian pottery throughout the ages by noting that: \"... the division into periods [of Palestinian pottery] is to some extent a necessary evil, in that it suggests a misleading idea of discontinuity - as though the periods were so many water-tight compartments with fixed partitions between them. In point of fact, each period shades almost imperceptibly into the next.\"\n\nCommenting further on modern examples of Palestinian pottery, Needler notes that the clay used is of much the same composition as the ancient examples and is shaped, smoothed and baked in the same way, with the surfaces often decorated in similar painted, incised, or moulded techniques. \"Ramallah\" ware, a think-walled, pinkish drab pottery painted with simple geometric and plant designs in red, is handmade; as are the \"frying pan\" and the home-made braziers. Other pottery is wheel-made, largely undecorated, but often with a glossy black glaze and crude designs in bright red.\n\nThe Palestinian Association for Cultural Exchange (PACE) has put together a collection of traditional pottery, including cooking pots, jugs, mugs and plates that are manufactured by men and women from historic villages like al-Jib (Gibeon), Beitin (Bethel) and Senjel. They are handmade and fired in open, charcoal-fueled kilns as in ancient times.\n\nPalestinian ceramics are produced at traditional family-owned factories in Hebron and other cities. Covering a wide range of colorful hand-painted plates, vases, hanging ornaments, tiles, cups, jars and framed mirrors, the ceramics are known for the intricate detail of their flower and arabesque patterns.\n\nPalestinian artists who produce contemporary clay sculpture, like Vera Tamari from Ramallah, have incorporated the clay shards from ancient pieces into their work. Says Tamari,\n\n\"My own artwork is inspired by seeing the history in Palestinian land. For a time, I used a lot of shards of pottery as a theme in my clay work. You find shards of pottery everywhere because Palestine has had so many thousand of years of history that you walk on a hill and you just find these little pieces of pottery that are evidence of life that was there — pieces of jars, of plates, of bowls.\"\n\nDina Ghazal from Nablus use another approach, believing that abstraction will best express the essence of her ideas.\nThe qualities of the material she works with are very important for Ghazal, she explains that her work is an attempt to show the versatility of the medium and she hopes to challenge traditional perceptions of the use of the clay.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "257212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=257212", "title": "Millbank", "text": "Millbank\n\nMillbank is an area of central London in the City of Westminster. Millbank is located by the River Thames, east of Pimlico and south of Westminster. Millbank is known as the location of major government offices, Burberry headquarters, the Millbank Tower and prominent art institutions such as Tate Britain and the Chelsea College of Art and Design. \n\nThe area derives its name from a watermill owned by Westminster Abbey that once stood at a site close to present day College Green. Norden's survey, taken during the reign of Elizabeth I in 1573, records the existence of such a mill although much of the area that comprises Millbank today, was referred to by Samuel Pepys and others as Tothill Fields. Described as a place of plague pits and a \"low, marshy locality\" suitable for shooting snipe in the nearby \"bogs and quagmires\".\n\nAfter Cromwell's victory at the Battle of Worcester in September 1651, some 4,000 defeated Royalists were imprisoned at Tothill Fields prior to being sold as slaves to merchants trading with Africa and the West Indies. Facilities at the prison camp on the marshy ground were so poor that 1,200 prisoners were recorded as having died in the primitive conditions. \n\nPrior to the development of Millbank Prison in 1816, the area was sparsely covered with residential houses, but did feature a distillery by the river owned by a Mr. Hodge and numerous small almshouses, bridewells and pest houses for the poor, criminally inclined and sick. Baltic Wharf, a site just to the north of Vauxhall Bridge, was for much of the 19th century the location of a Henry Castle & Son, a ship breaking and timber merchant. Numerous wooden ships of the line of the Royal Navy were dismantled at this location, their ornate figureheads often displayed on the gates and perimeter of the yard walls. \n\nMillbank's general appearance today dates from the 1930s, when the area was extensively rebuilt to repair damage caused by the 1928 Thames flood disaster, following the collapse of a 25-metre-long section of the Thames Embankment. Millbank shares the name of the main road (A3212) along the north bank of the River Thames, extending northwards from Vauxhall Bridge to Abingdon Street, just south from Parliament Square. There are parliamentary offices situated across this road, notably No.7, built as the headquarters of British American Tobacco. The road was created as part of the Thames Embankment in the mid 19th century and lies above a large interceptor sewer. \n\nThe former Royal Army Medical College, situated at Millbank, is the site where the vaccine for typhoid was first developed, and in the late 19th century, was where the world's first modern prison (Millbank Prison) was established. The listed site has since been renovated as a purpose built arts college for the Chelsea College of Art and Design in 2005. The Tate Britain art gallery (former Tate Gallery) is directly opposite near the end of Vauxhall Bridge, providing a distinct arts presence in the area.\n\nThe headquarters of the British chemicals giant ICI was originally located at Imperial Chemical House on Millbank (The Smith Square entrance of which was called Nobel House) before it relocated to Manchester Square, also situated in London. The headquarters for the Northern Ireland Office, MI5 and Thames House are also nearby.\n\nOn 18 December 1973, the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) exploded a bomb on Thorney Street at 8:50am. The bomb resulted in over 50 people injured, including two seriously (see 1973 Westminster bombing).\n\nMillbank Studios reside in the area as an independent broadcast company, owned by ITV. The studio is situated opposite the Houses of Parliament. The BBC Parliament broadcasting channel is also situated nearby (intended to broadcast parliamentary and general political coverage on behalf of the BBC). No.4 is the location commonly used by broadcasters for producing coverage of the Westminster area, including the BBC, Sky News and ITV. RTÉ News and Current Affairs also have their London bureau at the same location. Neighbouring College Green is used as a setting for interviewing politicians outdoors.\n\nMillbank Estate is a large but highly regarded Grade II-listed red-brick housing estate that gives the area behind Tate Britain a distinct character. The estate was built between 1897 and 1902, the bricks being recycled from Millbank Prison, which had closed in 1890. The 17 buildings, comprising one of London's earliest social housing schemes, are named after distinguished painters such as Turner, Gainsborough, Millais, etc. The estate has 562 flats, all managed on behalf of Westminster City Council by MEMO, the largest tenant management organisation in Westminster. The estate's management board is elected annually from the resident population. Half of the estate's flats are private leaseholds, the other half are rented from Westminster City Council. The estate's buildings are maintained by a regular works program. \n\nIn 1914-16 architects John W. Simpson and Maxwell Ayrton designed and built 4 Millbank, a six-story Neoclassical office building for the Offices of the Crown Agents for the Colonies. This structure has since been converted into multi-let office building with a central, glass-roofed atrium. \n\nHide Tower is a 20-storey building of 162 flats with an extensive garden, a mini-golf facility and a community hall. Approximately a quarter of the accommodation is privately rented; half is rented from Westminster City Council and the remainder is owner-occupied. The name was derived from the \"hide\", an old English land measure (used in the Domesday Survey of 1086).\n\nMillbank Tower is a large, modernistic office complex between the River Thames, Millbank Estate and Tate Britain Gallery. It has several restaurants and a public garden. Before the 1997 General Election, the Labour Party acquired two floors of the building as its headquarters. The £1 million annual rent, however, forced the party to vacate the tower in 2001 for 16 Old Queen Street, Westminster. In British politics, the term \"Millbank Machine\" or \"Millbank tendency\" (a play on \"Militant tendency\") has been linked with the activities of spin doctors. The Conservative Party also formerly had its headquarters, CCHQ based in the tower.\n\nMillbank Millennium Pier is a modern River Thames pier structure. A regular service by a Damien Hirst-designed riverboat connects Tate Britain with Tate Modern.\n\nThe nearest London Underground stations are Westminster, Pimlico and Victoria. London Victoria station is also a National Rail mainline terminus with an adjacent national coach station. Waterloo and Charing Cross stations are also nearby. Millbank is well connected with the rest of Central London and districts south of the river by bus services such as number 87, 88, C10, 507, 2, 36, 365 and 185.\n\n"}
{"id": "1452519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1452519", "title": "Miss Grundy", "text": "Miss Grundy\n\nMiss Geraldine Grundy is a fictional character of the Archie Comics series.\n\nAn early version of Miss Grundy appears in \"Jackpot Comics\" #4 (Winter 1941). In this appearance, she is Mrs. Mimi Grundy, the married principal of Riverdale High School. She is reintroduced as \"Miss Grundy\" in \"Pep Comics\" #30 (April 1942), the no-nonsense homeroom teacher at Riverdale High School, occasionally teaching English and math as well. Her name is derived from Mrs Grundy, a name that has been used to refer to a prudish woman since the early nineteenth century. Before she became a teacher, she worked at a pickle-packing plant. During World War II, she served with the WACs, outranking Mr. Weatherbee. Despite occasional grumblings from her students, they seem to genuinely like and admire her. She, in return, tends to drive them hard, pushing Archie Andrews and Moose Mason in particular, but remains quite fond of her students.\n\nHer first name is most often given as Geraldine. However, at least once, another staff member called her \"Amanda\". She was also called \"Alice\" in at least one mainstream story. In \"Archie's Double Digest\" (#41), she was revealed to be an alumna herself of Riverdale High School, and had run for class president, in a joke about the need to clean off the bulletin board. Her forename was given as \"Elizabeth\" in \"The Archie and Sabrina Hour\", and as \"Doris\" in the animated series \"Archie's Weird Mysteries\". In one story about Jughead's correct first name, it was revealed as \"Grisensnable\". In an earlier Archie book that listed the names of the characters, her name was also \"Gertrude\". Nevertheless, Geraldine remains her commonly accepted name.\n\nIn \"Life with Archie: The Married Life\", Miss Grundy and Mr. Weatherbee realized how much they loved each other, and got married. However, in this alternative future, she died from kidney disease not long afterward, leaving Mr. Weatherbee a broken-hearted widower.\n\nIn \"Afterlife with Archie\", she and Mr. Weatherbee were chaperoning for the Halloween school dance. They took a break outside to reminisce about the time they snuck into the Cypress Cemetery as children and make references about \"Night of the Living Dead\". Their conversation is cut off at the appearance of a zombified Jughead Jones who mauls Mr. Weatherbee. It is revealed Miss Grundy was turned into a zombie shortly afterwards.\n\nIn \"Riverdale\", Miss Grundy is a much younger woman played by Sarah Habel. In the fourth episode of the series it is revealed that Grundy moved to Riverdale after changing her name from Jennifer Gibson after her divorce, to escape from an abusive relationship. Since then Grundy has moved from Riverdale to avoid police capture because of her relationship with Archie. When Betty is searching for Miss Grundy online, she finds a Miss Grundy who died years prior to the beginning of the series, with her obituary picture closely resembling the Miss Grundy of the comic book series. In the season two premiere, it is revealed she is living in Greendale and \"teaching\" another young male student, before she is strangled to death by Black Hood with her own cello bow.\n"}
{"id": "438445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=438445", "title": "Moneyball", "text": "Moneyball\n\nMoneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game is a book by Michael Lewis, published in 2003, about the Oakland Athletics baseball team and its general manager Billy Beane. Its focus is the team's analytical, evidence-based, sabermetric approach to assembling a competitive baseball team despite Oakland's small budget. A film based on the book, starring Brad Pitt and Jonah Hill, was released in 2011.\n\nThe central premise of \"Moneyball\" is that the collective wisdom of baseball insiders (including players, managers, coaches, scouts, and the front office) over the past century is subjective and often flawed. Statistics such as stolen bases, runs batted in, and batting average, typically used to gauge players, are relics of a 19th-century view of the game and the statistics available at that time. Before sabermetrics was introduced to baseball, teams were dependent on the skills of their scouts to find and evaluate players. Scouts are experienced in the sport, usually having been players or coaches. The book argues that the Oakland A's' front office took advantage of more analytical gauges of player performance to field a team that could better compete against richer competitors in Major League Baseball (MLB).\n\nRigorous statistical analysis had demonstrated that on-base percentage and slugging percentage are better indicators of offensive success, and the A's became convinced that these qualities were cheaper to obtain on the open market than more historically valued qualities such as speed and contact. These observations often flew in the face of conventional baseball wisdom and the beliefs of many baseball scouts and executives.\n\nBy re-evaluating their strategy in this way, the 2002 Athletics, with approximately $44 million in salary, were competitive with larger market teams such as the New York Yankees, who spent over $125 million in payroll that season. Because of its smaller budget, Oakland had to find players undervalued by the market, and their system has proven itself thus far. The approach brought the A's to the playoffs in 2002 and 2003.\n\nLewis explored several themes in the book, such as insiders vs. outsiders (established traditionalists vs. upstart proponents of sabermetrics), the democratization of information causing a flattening of hierarchies, and \"the ruthless drive for efficiency that capitalism demands\". The book also touches on Oakland's underlying economic need to stay ahead of the curve; as other teams begin mirroring Beane's strategies to evaluate offensive talent, diminishing the Athletics' advantage, Oakland begins looking for other undervalued baseball skills, such as defensive capabilities.\n\n\"Moneyball\" also touches on the A's' methods of prospect selection. Sabermetricians argue that a college baseball player's chance of MLB success is much higher than a traditional high school draft pick. Beane maintains that high draft picks spent on high school prospects, regardless of talent or physical potential as evaluated by traditional scouting, are riskier than those spent on more polished college players. Lewis cites A's minor leaguer Jeremy Bonderman, drafted out of high school in 2001 over Beane's objections, as an example of the type of draft pick Beane would avoid. Bonderman had all of the traditional \"tools\" that scouts look for, but thousands of such players have been signed by MLB organizations out of high school over the years and failed to develop. Lewis explores the A's approach to the 2002 MLB draft, when the team had a run of early picks. The book documents Beane's often tense discussions with his scouting staff (who favored traditional subjective evaluation of potential rather than objective sabermetrics) in preparation for the draft to the actual draft, which defied all expectations and was considered at the time a wildly successful (if unorthodox) effort by Beane.\n\n\"Moneyball\" traces the history of the sabermetric movement back to such people as Bill James (now a member of the Boston Red Sox front office) and Craig R. Wright. Lewis explores how James's seminal \"Baseball Abstract\", published annually from the late 1970s through the late 1980s, influenced many of the young, up-and-coming baseball minds that are now joining the ranks of baseball management.\n\n\"Moneyball\" has entered baseball's lexicon; teams that value sabermetrics are often said to be playing \"\"Moneyball\".\" Baseball traditionalists, in particular some scouts and media members, decry the sabermetric revolution and have disparaged \"Moneyball\" for emphasizing sabermetrics over more traditional methods of player evaluation. Nevertheless, \"Moneyball\" changed the way many major league front offices do business. In its wake, teams such as the New York Mets, New York Yankees, San Diego Padres, St. Louis Cardinals, Boston Red Sox, Washington Nationals, Arizona Diamondbacks, Cleveland Indians, and the Toronto Blue Jays have hired full-time sabermetric analysts.\n\nWhen the Mets hired Sandy Alderson – Beane's predecessor and mentor with the A's – as their general manager after the 2010 season, and hired Beane's former associates Paul DePodesta and J.P. Ricciardi to the front office, the team was jokingly referred to as the \"Moneyball Mets\". Like the Oakland A's in the 1990s, the Mets have been directed by their ownership to slash payroll. Under Alderson's tenure, the team payroll dropped below $100 million per year from 2012 to 2014, and the Mets reached the 2015 World Series (defeating MLB's highest-payroll team, the Los Angeles Dodgers, en route).\n\nLewis has acknowledged that the book's success may have hurt the Athletics' fortunes as other teams accepted sabermetrics, reducing Oakland's edge.\n\nDaryl Morey's own unorthodox approaches in the NBA have been called \"Moreyball\".\n\nSince the book's publication and success, Lewis has discussed plans for a sequel to \"Moneyball\" called \"Underdogs\", revisiting the players and their relative success several years into their careers, although only four players from the 2002 draft played much at the Major League level.\n\n\"Moneyball\" also covers the lives and careers of several baseball personalities. The central one is Billy Beane, whose failed playing career is contrasted with wildly optimistic predictions by scouts.\n\nPlayers and people discussed in \"Moneyball\":\n\n\n\n\n\nBeane assembled a list of twenty players they would draft in a \"perfect world\"; meaning if money was no object and they didn't have to compete with the other twenty-nine teams.\n\nThe list, and the teams who drafted them:\n\n\nRichard H. Thaler of the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business and Cass R. Sunstein of the University of Chicago Law School described the book as a \"sensation... Lewis has a wonderful story to tell, and he tells it wonderfully... Lewis also raises some serious puzzles that he does not resolve, and his account has some large and perhaps profound implications that he does not much explore.\"\n\nDavid Haglund of Slate and Jonah Keri of Grantland have both criticized the book for glossing over key young talent acquired through the draft and signed internationally. Specifically, they have argued that the book ignores the pitching trio of Tim Hudson, Mark Mulder, and Barry Zito, as well as position players such as Eric Chavez and Miguel Tejada, all of whom were discovered via traditional scouting methodology and were key contributors to the success of the 2002 Athletics. In 2002, Barry Zito received the AL Cy Young Award and Miguel Tejada received the AL MVP Award. \n\nA movie based on the book was released in 2011. Actor Brad Pitt stars as Billy Beane, while Jonah Hill plays a fictional character based on Paul DePodesta; Philip Seymour Hoffman plays A's manager Art Howe. Academy Award-winning screenwriter Steve Zaillian was hired to write the script, and Steven Soderbergh was slated to direct, replacing David Frankel. But in June 2009, because of conflicts over a revised script by Soderbergh, Sony put the movie on hold just days before it was scheduled to begin shooting. Soderbergh was eventually let go.\n\nBennett Miller took over directing duties, and Aaron Sorkin rewrote the script. Shooting began in July 2010 at Blair Field, the Sports Stadium for Wilson High School (Long Beach, California), Sony Studios in Culver City, Dodger Stadium, and the Oakland-Alameda Coliseum. The film was released in theaters on September 23, 2011. \"Moneyball\" was nominated for six Academy Awards, including Best Actor and Best Picture.\n\nThe book is parodied in the \"Simpsons\" episode \"MoneyBART\", in which Lisa manages Bart's Little League baseball team using sabermetric principles. Bill James made an appearance in this episode.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46642437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46642437", "title": "Mor Altshuler", "text": "Mor Altshuler\n\nMor Altshuler (born 1957) is a scholar of Hasidism, Kabbalism, and Jewish messianism. She has published studies in both Hebrew and English and wrote the television series \"The Guide – Rabbi Joseph Karo and the Golden Age of Kabbalah in Safed\" which she hosted for the Israeli channel in 2003. Her views on contemporary issues have been published in Ynet's opinions section.\n\nAltshuler was born in Israel. She studied Jewish thought, Jewish philosophy, comparative literature and Talmudic studies at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and the Tel Aviv University. She is married and has two children, Avshalom and Hemdat.\n\nShe is known for her original opinion that the first Hasidic \"tzadik\" was not the Baal Shem Tov, but the Maggid of Zlotshov.\n\n"}
{"id": "31473093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31473093", "title": "Museum Pasifika", "text": "Museum Pasifika\n\nMuseum Pasifika (\"Nusa Dua Bali\") is an art museum in Bali, Indonesia. It presents the Asian Pacific’s variety of cultural artefacts.\nThe museum was founded in 2006 by Moetaryanto P and Philippe Augier.\n\nThe museum's collection includes more than 600 artworks by 200 artists from 25 countries. The museum has a number of galleries:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "438428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=438428", "title": "Music director", "text": "Music director\n\nA music director, musical director, or director of music may be the director of an orchestra or concert band, the director of music for a film, the director of music at a radio station, the head of the music department in a school, the coordinator of the musical ensembles in a university, college, or institution (but not usually the head of the academic music department), the head bandmaster of a military band, the head organist and choirmaster of a church, or an Organist and Master of the Choristers (a title given to a Director of Music at a cathedral, particularly in England).\n\nThe title of \"music director\" or \"musical director\" is used by many symphony orchestras to designate the primary conductor and artistic leader of the orchestra. The term \"music director\" is most common for orchestras in the United States. With European orchestras, the titles of \"principal conductor\" or \"chief conductor\" are more common, which designate the conductor who directs the majority of a given orchestra's concerts in a season. In musical theatre and opera, the music director is in charge of the overall musical performance, including ensuring that the cast knows the music thoroughly, supervising the musical interpretation of the performers and pit orchestra, and conducting the orchestra.\n\nIn the 20th century, the title and position typically brought with it an almost unlimited influence over the particular orchestra's affairs. As implied by the name, the music director not only conducts concerts, but also controls what music the orchestra will perform or record, and has much authority regarding hiring, firing, and other personnel decisions over an orchestra's musicians. Such authoritarian rule, once expected and even thought necessary for a symphonic ensemble to function properly, has loosened somewhat in the closing decades of the 20th century with the advent and encouragement of more power sharing and cooperative management styles (with the orchestra musicians themselves, the administrative staff, and volunteer board of directors). The music director in American lingo also assists with fund-raising, and also is the primary focus of publicity for the orchestra, as what is often called its \"public face\".\n\nThe term \"music director\" or \"musical director\" became common in the United States in the middle of the 20th century, following an evolution of titles. Early leaders of orchestras were simply designated as the \"conductor.\" In the 1920s and 1930s, the term musical director began to be used, in order to delineate the fact that the person in this position was doing much more than just conducting, and to differentiate them from guest conductors who simply led one particular program or concert. George Szell, for instance, was appointed as \"musical director\" of the Cleveland Orchestra in 1946, and his position was so named until his death in 1970. His successor, Lorin Maazel, was given the title \"music director.\" Other major American orchestras kept more current with the times and began using the simpler term in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nThe term can also refer to the person who directs a school band or heads the music program.\n\nAlternatively, the term \"music director\" used to appear in the film credits for a professional hired to supervise and direct the music selected for a film or music documentary, but today the more common designation is music supervisor.\n\nIn India, where a large number of films are produced as musicals, the term 'music director' is commonly used for the composer and music producer of the songs and score used in the film. Their roles also entail arranging, mastering, mixing and supervising recording of film music with conducting and orchestration. Usually, another artist will receive the credit for the lyrics of the songs. \"Further information: \".\n\nThe \"music director\" for a theatrical production or Broadway or West End musical often serves as rehearsal pianist and conductor.\n\nBrass bands, wind bands, choirs, opera companies and other ensembles may also have musical directors.\n\nA music director of a radio station is responsible for interacting with record company representatives, auditioning new music, offering commentary, and making decisions (sometimes in conjunction with the program director) as to which songs get airplay, how much and when. In college radio, there may be more than one music director, as students usually volunteer only a few hours each per week, and most stations have a diverse and extensive library of several different music genres.\n\nIn the British Armed Forces, a director of music is a commissioned officer, always commissioned from the ranks, who leads a military band. A non-commissioned officer or warrant officer who leads a band is called a bandmaster.\n\nIn pop music, a musical director or \"MD\" is responsible for supervising the musical arrangements and personnel for a touring artist. This can include festivals and televised performances as well as those at traditional on-stage venues. In the modern era, the sound of a studio recording is often impossible or impractical to reproduce on stage, and it is the music director's job to assemble musicians and arrangements to adapt that material to a live setting (which may or may not include playback of prerecorded tracks). The music director generally leads rehearsals as well as each performance, allowing the lead artist to focus on performing.\n\n"}
{"id": "203505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203505", "title": "Pictorialism", "text": "Pictorialism\n\nPictorialism is the name given to an international style and aesthetic movement that dominated photography during the later 19th and early 20th centuries. There is no standard definition of the term, but in general it refers to a style in which the photographer has somehow manipulated what would otherwise be a straightforward photograph as a means of \"creating\" an image rather than simply recording it. Typically, a pictorial photograph appears to lack a sharp focus (some more so than others), is printed in one or more colors other than black-and-white (ranging from warm brown to deep blue) and may have visible brush strokes or other manipulation of the surface. For the pictorialist, a photograph, like a painting, drawing or engraving, was a way of projecting an emotional intent into the viewer's realm of imagination.\n\nPictorialism as a movement thrived from about 1885 to 1915, although it was still being promoted by some as late as the 1940s. It began in response to claims that a photograph was nothing more than a simple record of reality, and transformed into an international movement to advance the status of all photography as a true art form. For more than three decades painters, photographers and art critics debated opposing artistic philosophies, ultimately culminating in the acquisition of photographs by several major art museums.\n\nPictorialism gradually declined in popularity after 1920, although it did not fade out of popularity until the end of World War II. During this period the new style of photographic Modernism came into vogue, and the public's interest shifted to more sharply focused images. Several important 20th-century photographers began their careers in a pictorialist style but transitioned into sharply focused photography by the 1930s.\n\nPhotography as a technical process involving the development of film and prints in a darkroom originated in the early 19th century, with the forerunners of traditional photographic prints coming into prominence around 1838 to 1840. Not long after the new medium was established, photographers, painters and others began to argue about the relationship between the scientific and artistic aspects of the medium. As early as 1853, English painter William John Newton proposed that the camera could produce artistic results if the photographer would keep an image slightly out of focus. Others vehemently believed that a photograph was equivalent to the visual record of a chemistry experiment. Photography historian Naomi Rosenblum points out that \"the dual character of the medium — its capacity to produce both art and document — [was] demonstrated soon after its discovery ... Nevertheless, a good part of the nineteenth century was spent debating which of these directions was the medium's true function.\"\n\nThese debates reached their peak during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, culminating in the creation of a movement that is usually characterized as a particular style of photography: pictorialism. This style is defined first by a distinctly personal expression that emphasizes photography's ability to create visual beauty rather than simply record facts. However, recently historians have recognized that pictorialism is more than just a visual style. It evolved in direct context with the changing social and cultural attitudes of the time, and, as such, it should not be characterized simply as a visual trend. One writer has noted that pictorialism was \"simultaneously a movement, a philosophy, an aesthetic and a style.\"\n\nContrary to what some histories of photography portray, pictorialism did not come about as the result of a linear evolution of artistic sensibilities; rather, it was formed through \"an intricate, divergent, often passionately conflicting barrage of strategies.\" While photographers and others debated whether photography could be art, the advent of photography directly affected the roles and livelihoods of many traditional artists. Prior to the development of photography, a painted miniature portrait was the most common means of recording a person's likeness. Thousands of painters were engaged in this art form. But photography quickly negated the need for and interest in miniature portraits. One example of this effect was seen at the annual exhibition of the Royal Academy in London; in 1830 more than 300 miniature paintings were exhibited, but by 1870 only 33 were on display. Photography had taken over for one type of art form, but the question of whether photography itself could be artistic had not been resolved.\n\nSome painters soon adopted photography as a tool to help them record a model's pose, a landscape scene or other elements to include in their art. It's known that many of the great 19th-century painters, including Delacroix, Courbet, Manet, Degas, Cézanne, and Gauguin, took photographs themselves, used photographs by others and incorporated images from photographs into their work. While heated debates about the relationship between photography and art continued in print and in lecture halls, the distinction between a photographic image and a painting became more and more difficult to discern. As photography continued to develop, the interactions between painting and photography became increasingly reciprocal. More than a few pictorial photographers, including Alvin Langdon Coburn, Edward Steichen, Gertrude Käsebier, Oscar Gustave Rejlander, and Sarah Choate Sears, were originally trained as painters or took up painting in addition to their photographic skills.\n\nIt was during this same period that cultures and societies around the world were being affected by a rapid increase in intercontinental travel and commerce. Books and magazines published on one continent could be exported and sold on another with increasing ease, and the development of reliable mail services facilitated individual exchanges of ideas, techniques and, most importantly for photography, actual prints. These developments led to pictorialism being \"a more international movement in photography than almost any other photographic genre.\" Camera clubs in the U.S., England, France, Germany, Austria, Japan and other countries regularly lent works to each other's exhibitions, exchanged technical information and published essays and critical commentaries in one another's journals. Led by The Linked Ring in England, the Photo-Secession in the U.S., and the Photo-Club de Paris in France, first hundreds and then thousands of photographers passionately pursued common interests in this multi-dimensional movement. Within the span of little more than a decade, notable pictorial photographers were found in Western and Eastern Europe, North America, Asia and Australia.\n\nFor the first forty years after a practical process of capturing and reproducing images was invented, photography remained the domain of a highly dedicated group of individuals who had expert knowledge of and skills in science, mechanics and art. To make a photograph, a person had to learn a great deal about chemistry, optics, light, the mechanics of cameras and how these factors combine to properly render a scene. It was not something that one learned easily or engaged in lightly, and, as such, it was limited to a relatively small group of academics, scientists and professional photographers.\nAll of that changed in a few years' time span. In 1888 George Eastman introduced the first handheld amateur camera, the Kodak camera. It was marketed with the slogan \"You press the button, we do the rest.\" The camera was pre-loaded with a roll of film that produced about 100 2.5\" round pictures exposures, and it could easily be carried and handheld during its operation. After all of the shots on the film were exposed, the whole camera was returned to the Kodak company in Rochester, New York, where the film was developed, prints were made, and new photographic film was placed inside. Then the camera and prints were returned to the customer, who was ready to take more pictures.\n\nThe impact of this change was enormous. Suddenly almost anyone could take a photograph, and within the span of a few years photography became one of the biggest fads in the world. Photography collector Michael Wilson observed \"Thousands of commercial photographers and a hundred times as many amateurs were producing millions of photographs annually ... The decline in the quality of professional work and the deluge of snapshots (a term borrowed from hunting, meaning to get off a quick shot without taking the time to aim) resulted in a world awash with technically good but aesthetically indifferent photographs.\"\n\nConcurrent with this change was the development of national and international commercial enterprises to meet the new demand for cameras, films and prints. At the 1893 World Columbian Exposition in Chicago, which attracted more than 27 million people, photography for amateurs was marketed at an unprecedented scale. There were multiple large exhibits displaying photographs from around the world, many camera and darkroom equipment manufacturers showing and selling their latest goods, dozens of portrait studios and even on-the-spot documentation of the Exposition itself. Suddenly photography and photographers were household commodities.\n\nMany serious photographers were appalled. Their craft, and to some their art, was being co-opted by a newly engaged, uncontrolled and mostly untalented citizenry. The debate about art and photography intensified around the argument that if anyone could take a photograph then photography could not possibly be called art. Some of the most passionate defenders of photography as art pointed out that photography should not and cannot be seen as an \"either/or\" medium ‒ some photographs are indeed simple records of reality, but with the right elements some are indeed works of art. William Howe Downs, art critic for the \"Boston Evening Transcript\", summed up this position in 1900 by saying \"Art is not so much a matter of methods and processes as it is an affair of temperament, of taste and of sentiment ... In the hands of the artist, the photograph becomes a work of art ... In a word, photography is what the photographer makes it ‒ an art or a trade.\"\n\nAll of these elements ‒ the debates over photography and art, the impacts of Kodak cameras, and the changing social and cultural values of the times ‒ combined to set the stage for an evolution in how art and photography, independently and together, would appear at the turn of the century. The course that drove pictorialism was set almost as soon as photographic processes were established, but it wasn't until the last decade of the 19th century that an international pictorialist movement came together.\n\nIn 1869 English photographer Henry Peach Robinson published a book entitled \"Pictorial Effect in Photography: Being Hints On Composition And Chiaroscuro For Photographers.\" This is the first common use of the term \"pictorial\" referring to photography in the context of a certain stylistic element - chiaroscuro ‒ an Italian term used by painters and art historians that refers to the use of dramatic lighting and shading to convey an expressive mood. In his book Robinson promoted what he called \"combination printing\", a method he had devised nearly 20 years earlier by combining individual elements from separate images into a new single image by manipulating multiple negatives or prints. Robinson thus considered that he had created \"art\" through photography, since it was only through his direct intervention that the final image came about. Robinson continued to expand on the meaning of the term throughout his life.\n\nOther photographers and art critics, including Oscar Rejlander, Marcus Aurelius Root, John Ruskin, echoed these ideas. One of the primary forces behind the rise of pictorialism was the belief that straight photography was purely representational ‒ that it showed reality without the filter of artistic interpretation. It was for, all intents and purposes, a simple record of the visual facts, lacking artistic intent or merit. Robinson and others felt strongly that the \"usually accepted limitations of photography had to be overcome if an equality of status was to be achieved.\n\nRobert Demachy later summarized this concept in an article entitled \"What Difference Is There Between a Good Photograph and an Artistic Photograph?\". He wrote \"We must realize that, on undertaking pictorial photography, we have, unwittingly perhaps, bound ourselves to the strict observance of rules hundreds of years more ancient than the oldest formulae of our chemical craft. We have slipped into the Temple of Art by a back door, and found ourselves amongst the crowd of adepts.\"\n\nOne of the challenges in promoting photography as art was that there were many different opinions about how art should look. After the Third Philadelphia Salon 1900, which showcased dozens of pictorial photographers, one critic wondered \"whether the idea of art in anything like the true sense had ever been heard or thought by the great majority of exhibitors.\"\n\nWhile some photographers saw themselves becoming true artists by emulating painting, at least one school of painting directly inspired photographers. During the 1880s, when debates over art and photography were becoming commonplace, a style of painting known as Tonalism first appeared. Within a few years it became a significant artistic influence on the development of pictorialism. Painters such as James McNeill Whistler, George Inness, Ralph Albert Blakelock and Arnold Böcklin saw the interpretation of the experience of nature, as contrasted with simply recording an image of nature, as the artist's highest duty. To these artists it was essential that their paintings convey an emotional response to the viewer, which was elicited through an emphasis on the atmospheric elements in the picture and by the use of \"vague shapes and subdued tonalities ... [to convey] a sense of elegiac melancholy.\"\n\nApplying this same sensibility to photography, Alfred Stieglitz later stated it this way: \"Atmosphere is the medium through which we see all things. In order, therefore, to see them in their true value on a photograph, as we do in Nature, atmosphere must be there. Atmosphere softens all lines; it graduates the transition from light to shade; it is essential to the reproduction of the sense of distance. That dimness of outline which is characteristic for distant objects is due to atmosphere. Now, what atmosphere is to Nature, tone is to a picture.\"\n\nPaul L. Anderson, a prolific contemporary promoter of pictorialism, advised his readers that true art photography conveyed \"suggestion and mystery\", in which \"mystery consists in affording an opportunity for the exercise of the imagination, whereas suggestion involves stimulating the imagination by direct or indirect means.\" Science, pictorialists contended, might answer a demand for truthful information, but art must respond to the human need for stimulation of the senses. This could only be done by creating a mark of individuality for each image and, ideally, each print.\n\nFor pictorialists, true individuality was expressed through the creation of a unique print, considered by many to be the epitome of artistic photography. By manipulating the appearance of images through what some called \"ennobling processes\", such as gum or bromoil printing, pictorialists were able to create unique photographs that were sometimes mistaken for drawings or lithographs.\n\nMany of the strongest voices that championed pictorialism at its beginning were a new generation of amateur photographers. In contrast to its meaning today, the word \"amateur\" held a different connotation in the discussions of that time. Rather than suggesting an inexperienced novice, the word characterized someone who strived for artistic excellence and a freedom from rigid academic influence. An amateur was seen as someone who could break the rules because he or she was not bound by the then rigid rules set forth by long-established photography organizations like the Royal Photographic Society. An article in the British journal \"Amateur Photographer\" stated \"photography is an art ‒ perhaps the only one in which the amateur soon equals, and frequently excels, the professional in proficiency.\" This attitude prevailed in many countries around the world. At the 1893 Hamburg International Photographic Exhibition in Germany, only the work of amateurs was allowed. Alfred Lichtwark, then director of the Kunsthalle Hamburg believed \"the only good portraiture in any medium was being done by amateurs photographers, who had the economic freedom and time to experiment.\"\n\nIn 1948, S.D.Jouhar defined a Pictorial photograph as \"mainly an aesthetic symbolic record of a scene \"plus\" the artist's personal comment and interpretation, capable of transmitting an emotional response to the mind of a receptive spectator. It should show originality, imagination, unity of purpose, a quality of repose, and have an infinite quality about it\"\n\nOver the years other names were given to pictorialism, including \"art photography\" and \"Camerawork\" (both by Alfred Stieglitz), \"Impressionist photography\" (by George Davision), \"new vision (\"Neue Vision\"), and finally \"subjective photography\" (\"Subjektive Fotographie\") in Germany after the 1940s. In Spain pictorial photographers were sometimes called \"interventionists\" (\"intervencionistas\"), although the style itself was not known as \"interventionism\".\n\nThe evolution of pictorialism from the 19th century well into the 1940s was both slow and determined. From its roots in Europe it spread to the U.S. and the rest of the world in several semi-distinct stages. Prior to 1890 pictorialism emerged through advocates who were mainly in England, Germany, Austria and France. During the 1890s the center shifted to New York and Stieglitz's multi-faceted efforts. By 1900 pictorialism had reached countries around the world, and major exhibitions of pictorial photography were held in dozens of cities.\n\nA culminating moment for pictorialism and for photography in general occurred in 1910, when the Albright Gallery in Buffalo bought 15 photographs from Stieglitz' 291 Gallery. This was the first time photography was officially recognized as an art form worthy of a museum collection, and it signaled a definite shift in many photographers' thinking. Stieglitz, who had worked so long for this moment, responded by indicating he was already thinking of a new vision beyond pictorialism. He wrote, \"It is high time that the stupidity and sham in pictorial photography be struck a solarplexus blow ... Claims of art won't do. Let the photographer make a perfect photograph. And if he happens to be a lover of perfection and a seer, the resulting photograph will be straight and beautiful - a true photograph.\"\n\nSoon after Stieglitz began to direct his attention more to modern painting and sculpture, and Clarence H. White and others took over the leadership of a new generation of photographers. As the harsh realities of World War I affected people around the world, the public's taste for the art of the past began to change. Developed countries of the world focused on more and more in the industry and growth, and art reflected this change by featuring hard-edged images of new buildings, airplanes and industrial landscapes.\n\nPictorialism had, for the most part, run its course, but in the early part of the 21st century it is now more popular than ever . Adolf Fassbender, a 20th-century photographer who continued to make pictorial photographs well into the 1960s, believed that pictorialism is eternal because it is based upon beauty first. He wrote \"There is no solution in trying to eradicate pictorialism for one would then have to destroy idealism, sentiment and all sense of art and beauty. There will always be pictorialism.\"\n\nOne of the primary catalysts of pictorialism in Australia was John Kauffmann (1864–1942), who studied photographic chemistry and printing in London, Zurich and Vienna between 1889 and 1897. When he returned to his home country in 1897, he greatly influenced his colleagues by exhibiting what one newspaper called photographs that could be \"mistaken for works of art.\" Over the next decade a core of photographer artists, including Harold Cazneaux, Frank Hurley, Cecil Bostock, Henri Mallard, Rose Simmonds and Olive Cotton, exhibited pictorial works at salons and exhibitions across the country and published their photos in the \"Australian Photographic Journal\" and the \"Australasian Photo-Review\".\n\nIn 1891 the Club der Amateur Photographen in Wien (Vienna Amateur Photographers' Club) held the first International Exhibition of Photography in Vienna. The Club, founded by Carl Sma, Federico Mallmann and Charles Scolik, was founded to foster relationships with photographic groups in other countries. After Alfred Buschbeck became head of the club in 1893, it simplified its name to Wiener Camera-Klub (Vienna Camera Club) and began publishing a lavish magazine called \"Wiener Photographische Blätter\" that continued until 1898. It regularly featured articles from influential foreign photographers such as Alfred Stieglitz and Robert Demachy.\n\nAs in other countries, opposing viewpoints engaged a wider range of photographers in defining what pictorialism meant. , and Heinrich Kühn formed an organization called Das Kleeblatt (The Trilfolium) expressly to increase the exchange of information with other organizations in other countries, especially, France, Germany and the United States. Initially a small, informal group, Das Kleeblatt increased it influence in the Wiener Camera-Klub through its international connections, and several other organizations promoting pictorialism were created in other cities throughout the region. As in other countries, interest in pictorialism faded after World War I, and eventually most of the Austrian organization slipped into obscurity during the 1920s.\n\nPictorialism in Canada initially centered on Sidney Carter (1880–1956), the first of his countrymen to be elected to the Photo-Secession. This inspired him to bring together a group of pictorial photographers in Toronto, the Studio Club in Toronto, with Harold Mortimer-Lamb (1872–1970) and fellow Secessionist Percy Hodgins. In 1907 Carter organized Canada's first major exhibition of pictorial photography at Montreal's Art Association. Carter and fellow photographer Arthur Goss attempted to introduce pictorialist principles to the members of the Toronto Camera Club, although their efforts were met with some resistance.\n\nAs early as 1853 amateur photographer William J. Newton proposed the idea that \"a 'natural object', such as a tree, should be photographed in accordance 'the acknowledged principles of fine art'\". From there other early photographers, including Henry Peach Robinson and Peter Henry Emerson, continued to promote the concept of photography as art. In 1892 Robinson, along with George Davison and Alfred Maskell, established the first organization devoted specifically to the ideal of photography as art ‒ The Linked Ring. They invited like-minded photographers, including Frank Sutcliffe, Frederick H. Evans, Alvin Langdon Coburn, Frederick Hollyer, James Craig Annan, Alfred Horsley Hinton and others, to join them. Soon The Linked Ring was at the forefront of the movement to have photography regarded as an art form.\n\nAfter The Linked Ring invited a select group of Americans as members, debates broke out about the goals and purpose of the club. When more American than British members were shown at their annual exhibit in 1908, a motion was introduced to disband the organization. By 1910 The Linked Ring has dissolved, and its members went their own way.\n\nPictorialism in France is dominated by two names, Constant Puyo and Robert Demachy. They are the most famous members of the Photo-Club de Paris, a separate organization from the Société française de photographie. They are particularly well known for their use of pigment processes, especially gum bichromate. In 1906, they published a book on the subject, \"Les Procédés d'art en Photographie\". Both of them also wrote many articles for the \"Bulletin du Photo-Club de Paris\" (1891-1902) and \"La Revue de Photographie\" (1903-1908), a magazine which quickly became the most influential French publication dealing with artistic photography during the early 20th century.\n\nThe brothers Theodor and Oskar Hofmeister of Hamburg were among the first to advocate for photography as art in their country. At meetings of the Society for the Promotion of Amateur Photography (Gesellschaft zur Förderung der Amateur-Photographie), other photographers, including Heinrich Beck, George Einbeck, and Otto Scharf, advanced the cause of pictorialism. The Homeisters, along with Heinrich Kühn, later formed The Presidium (Das Praesidium), whose members were instrumental in major exhibitions at the Kunsthalle in Hamburg. Nowadays Karl Maria Udo Remmes represents the style of pictorialism in the field of theatrical backstage photography.\n\nIn 1889 photographers Ogawa Kazumasa, W. K. Burton, Kajima Seibei and several others formed the Nihon Shashin-kai (Japan Photographic Society) in order to promote \"geijutsu shashin\" (art photography) in that country. Acceptance of this new style was slow at first, but in 1893 Burton coordinated a major invitational exhibition known as \"Gaikoku Shashin-ga Tenrain-kai\" or the \"Foreign Photographic Art Exhibition\". The 296 works that were shown came from members of the London Camera Club, including important photographs by Peter Henry Emerson and George Davison. The breadth and depth of this exhibition had a tremendous impact on Japanese photographers, and it \"galvanized the discourse of art photography throughout the country.\" After the exhibition ended Burton and Kajima founded a new organization, the Dai Nihon Shashin Hinpyō-kai (Greater Japan Photography Critique Society) to advance their particular viewpoints on art photography.\n\nIn 1904 a new magazine called \"Shashin Geppo\" (\"Monthly Photo Journal\") was started, and for many years it was the centerpiece for the advancement of and debates about pictorialism. The meaning and direction of art photography as championed by Ogawa and others was challenged in the new journal by photographers Tarō Saitō and Haruki Egashira, who, along with Tetsusuke Akiyama and Seiichi Katō, formed a new group known as Yūtsuzu-sha. This new group promoted their own concepts of what they called \"the inner truth\" of art photography. For the next decade many photographers aligned themselves with one of these two organizations.\n\nIn the 1920s new organizations were formed that bridged the transition between pictorialism and modernism. Most prominently among these was the Shashin Geijustu-sha (Photographic Art Society) formed by Shinzō Fukuhara and his brother Rosō Fukuhara. They promoted the concept of \"hikari to sono kaichō\" (light with its harmony) that rejected an overt manipulation of an image in favor of soft-focused images using silver gelatin printing.\n\nThe first generation of Dutch pictorialists, including Bram Loman, Chris Schuver and Carl Emile Mögle, began working around 1890. They initially focused on naturalistic themes and favored platinum printing. Although initially there was no Dutch equivalent of The Linked Ring or Photo-Secession, several smaller organizations collaborated to produce the First International Salon for Art Photography in 1904. Three years later Adriann Boer, Ernest Loeb, Johan Huijsen and others founded the Dutch Club for Art Photography (Nederlandsche Club voor Foto-Kunst), which amassed an important collection of pictorial photography now housed at Leiden University. A second generation of Dutch pictorialists included Henri Berssenbrugge, Bernard Eilers and Berend Zweers.\n\nPictorialism spread to Russia first through European magazines and was championed by photography pioneers Evgeny Vishnyakov in Russia and Jan Bulhak from Poland. Soon after a new generation of pictorialists became active. These included Aleksei Mazuin, Sergei Lobovikov, Piotr Klepikov, Vassily Ulitin, Nikolay Andreyev, Nikolai Svishchov-Paola, Leonid Shokin and Alexander Grinberg. In 1894 the Russian Photographic Society was established in Moscow, but differences of opinion among the members led to the establishment of a second organization, the Moscow Society of Art Photography. Both were the primary promoters of pictorialsim in Russia for many years.\n\nThe main centers of pictorial photography in Spain were Madrid and Barcelona. Leading the movement in Madrid was Antonio Cánovas, who founded the Real Sociedad Fotográfica de Madrid and edited the magazine \"La Fotografía\". Cánovas claimed to be the first to introduce artistic photography to Spain, but throughout his career he remained rooted in the allegorical style of the early English pictorialists like Robinson. He refused to use any surface manipulation in his prints, saying that style \"is not, cannot be and will never be photography.\". Other influential photographers in the country were Carlos Iñigo, Manual Renon, Joan Vilatobà and a person known only as the Conde de la Ventosa. Unlike the rest of Europe, pictorialism remained popular in Spain throughout the 1920s and 1930s, and Ventosa was the most prolific pictorialist of that period. Unfortunately very few original prints remain from any of these photographers; most of their images are now known only from magazine reproductions.\n\nOne of the key figures in establishing both the definition and direction of pictorialism was American Alfred Stieglitz, who began as an amateur but quickly made the promotion of pictorialism his profession and obsession. Through his writings, his organizing and his personal efforts to advance and promote pictorial photographers, Stieglitz was a dominant figure in pictorialism from its beginnings to its end. Following in the footsteps of German photographers, in 1892 Stieglitz established a group he called the Photo-Secession in New York. Stieglitz hand-picked the members of the group, and he tightly controlled what it did and when it did it. By selecting photographers whose vision was aligned with his, including Gertrude Käsebier, Eva Watson-Schütze, Alvin Langdon Coburn, Edward Steichen, and Joseph Keiley, Stieglitz built a circle of friends who had enormous individual and collective influence over the movement to have photography accepted as art. Stieglitz also continually promoted pictorialism through two publications he edited, Camera Notes and Camera Work and by establishing and running a gallery in New York that for many years exhibited only pictorial photographers (the Little Galleries of the Photo-Secession).\n\nWhile much initially centered on Stieglitz, pictorialism in the U.S. was not limited to New York. In Boston F. Holland Day was one of the most prolific and noted pictorialists of his time. Clarence H. White, who produced extraordinary pictorial photographs while in Ohio, went on to teach a whole new generation of photographers. On the West Coast the California Camera Club and Southern California Camera Club included prominent pictorialists Annie Brigman, Arnold Genthe, Adelaide Hanscom Leeson, Emily Pitchford and William E. Dassonville. Later on, the Seattle Camera Club was started by a group of Japanese-American pictorialists, including Dr. Kyo Koike, Frank Asakichi Kunishige and Iwao Matsushita (prominent members later included Ella E. McBride and Soichi Sunami).\n\nPictorial photographers began by taking an ordinary glass-plate or film negative. Some adjusted the focus of the scene or used a special lens to produce a softer image, but for the most part the printing process controlled the final appearance of the photograph. Pictorialists used a variety of papers and chemical processes to produce particular effects, and some then manipulated the tones and surface of prints with brushes, ink or pigments. The following is a list of the most commonly used pictorial processes. More details about these processes may be found in Crawford (pp 85‒95) and in Daum (pp 332‒334). Unless otherwise noted, the descriptions below are summarized from these two books.\n\n\nFollowing are two lists of prominent photographers who engaged in pictorialism during their careers. The first list includes photographers who were predominantly pictorialists for all or almost all of their careers (generally those active from 1880 to 1920). The second list includes 20th-century photographers who used a pictorial style early in the careers but who are more well known for pure or straight photography.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7410249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7410249", "title": "Poetics", "text": "Poetics\n\nPoetics is the theory of literary forms and literary discourse. It may refer specifically to the theory of poetry, although some speakers use the term so broadly as to denote the concept of \"theory\" itself.\n\nThe term \"poetics\" comes from the Greek ποιητικός \"poietikos\" \"pertaining to poetry,\" literally \"creative, productive,\" from ποιητός \"poietos\" \"made,\" verbal adjective of ποιεῖν \"poiein\" \"to make.\"\n\nScholar T. V. F. Brogan identifies three major movements in Western poetics over the past 3,000 years, beginning with the formalist, objectivist Aristotelian tradition (see \"Poetics\"). During the romantic era, poetics tended toward expressionism and emphasized the perceiving subject. The 20th century witnessed a return to the Aristotelian paradigm, followed by trends toward metacriticality, or the establishment of a theory of poetics.\n\nEastern poetics developed primarily with reference to the lyric, as opposed to the mimetic.\n\nPoetics is distinguished from hermeneutics by its focus not on the meaning of a text, but rather its understanding of how a text's different elements come together and produce certain effects on the reader. Most literary criticism combines poetics and hermeneutics in a single analysis; however, one or the other may predominate given the text and the aims of the one doing the reading.\n\n"}
{"id": "36525929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36525929", "title": "Polychrome brickwork", "text": "Polychrome brickwork\n\nPolychrome brickwork is a style of architectural brickwork which emerged in the 1860s as a feature of gothic revival architecture, wherein bricks of different colours (typically brown, cream and red) were used in patterned combination to highlight architectural features. It was often used to replicate the effect of quoining and also decorate around windows. Early examples featured banding, with later examples exhibiting complex diagonal, criss-cross and step patterns, in some cases even writing using bricks.\n\nNineteenth century English architects such as George Edmund Street and William Butterfield, working in a time of nostalgia for the medieval era, designed many Gothic Revival churches and school buildings, often incorporating polychromy. Art critic John Ruskin, in his book The Seven Lamps of Architecture, used certain Tuscan and Venetian Romanesque and Gothic buildings such as the Doge's Palace in Venice, a famed example of polychromy, as exemplars of the attributes of the movement.\n\nEarly New Zealand examples are All Saints' Church, Dunedin and Lisburn House Dunedin, New Zealand both designed by Mason and Wales architects. \nIn Australia it was attributed to architect Joseph Reed, although he may have simply popularised it.The style also emerged in England in the 1870s where examples of it can be seen in the work of William Butterfield (who incidentally collaborated with Joseph Reed on St Paul's Cathedral, Melbourne). Although there are later examples, including the work of Watson Fothergill in Nottingham, however generally it failed to gain widespread acceptance in the United Kingdom.\n\nRare examples of its use can be found in Sydney, Brisbane, however it is most prevalent throughout Victoria, Australia and the most elaborate examples can be found in Melbourne from the period of the 1880s and 1890s. It was used extensively as a decorative element in \"Melbourne style\" terrace houses and workers cottages during the 1880s. Many such terraces were later rendered over to hide the polychrome, but some have later been restored to once again reveal the decorative brickwork. It was also used as a decorative in numerous school and church designs throughout Melbourne.\n\nThe art of polychrome brickwork was revived for several mock historical commercial buildings and homes in Australia in the 1990s due to its relative ease of application and faithful reproduction in comparison to other mock historical styles.\n\nNotable examples of its application include:\n"}
{"id": "47643131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47643131", "title": "Pop-up exhibition", "text": "Pop-up exhibition\n\nA pop-up exhibition is a temporary art event, less formal than a gallery or museum but more formal than private artistic showing of work. The idea began in 2007 in New York City where space for exhibiting artistic work is very limited. Although the idea originated from New York City, pop-up exhibitions occur all around the world. A recent example is Banksy's Dismaland, which ran from August to September 2015.\n"}
{"id": "21687219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21687219", "title": "Punjab Lok Rahs", "text": "Punjab Lok Rahs\n\nPunjab Lok Rahs started working as an independent alternative theater group in 1986. The group has seen a number of upheavals both internal and external during its history. On average, the group has held a performance every fortnight since its creation.\n\nIt started as a group of young men and women, primarily students, that was concerned with the military oppression of arts and cultural activities in Pakistan. The group cherished a society that has gender equity and democratic values, respects all humans and offers equal economic opportunities to all. Rahs believes in organized and conscious efforts to realize this dream. Theater is its medium.\n\nRahs’ experience in the art of theater is very deep as well. From staging classical epics to quick response street skits and from working out foreign adaptations to improvising ones with community and from performing at overseas festivals to villages and urban slums, Rahs has touched upon a host of issues. Rahs’ canvas is very wide and diverse as it has dealt with subjects like child marriage and women’s right to marry of their free will and staged plays against arms race and military dictatorship.\n\nBesides experimentation and experience, Rahs has learned theater from its gurus like Badal Sarkar. Its members have received training from many institutions in other countries.\n\nThe group has imparted theater training to a number of civil society organizations as well. It has supported scores of other organizations by performing for the communities with which they work.\n\nRahs draws inspiration from Punjab’s indigenous theater tradition. Its name ‘Rahs’ is the Punjabi word for local form of theater and its logo shows the basic props of this theater. The group aims to marry the tradition with modern techniques and concepts and make it an effective tool in the hands of organizations working for social change.\n\nRahs performs plays only in the mother language of its audience – the people of Punjab. The group believes that the mother language lies at the heart of the issue of cultural identity. The group not only performs but also trains other dramatic societies and community organizations to do theater as an art and use it as an effective tool of communication.\n\n"}
{"id": "8498874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8498874", "title": "Riksteatern", "text": "Riksteatern\n\nRiksteatern is the name of the popular \"\"National Touring Theatre\"/\"National Theatre Company\"\" (~Eng. transl.) in Sweden. It's the biggest theatre company on tour in Sweden and can, in one way, almost be described as Sweden's national stage on tour.\n\nRiksteatern is financed and owned by 240 local economic associations throughout Sweden and the goal is to promote and produce quality theatre for all of Sweden, outside the city regions. \n\nRiksteatern was established in 1933 and has been on-tour all over Sweden since. The Royal Dramatic Theatre (the national stage) and the Cullberg Ballet, for example, tours regularly with Riksteatern with many of their most popular productions.\n\nRiksteatern (or \"the Riksteater\") was established in 1933 by Arthur Engberg. \"Not only the citizens of the capital city in Sweden should be granted the privilege of first class theatre productions. The rest of the nation also has the right to claim this!\" - with these words, after a long public debate, Riksteatern was given the proper state funding and support. At first Riksteatern, in the 1930s, was supposed to be the touring section of Sweden's Royal Dramatic Theatre, in an effort to reach an audience in Sweden that couldn't get the chance to visit the national stage in Stockholm. However, in the 1940s Riksteatern was given their own ensemble, producing stage productions solely for Riksteatern and with the purpose to be given on-tour.\n\nIn 1966 Riksteatern was corporatized with Sweden's second influential touring theatre organization Svenska Teatern and became \"Svenska Riksteatern\". In 1967 Riksteatern started a section for producing theatre productions for children and youth, called \"Unga Riks\" (\"Young Riksteatern\") which has performed quality theatre for children for three decades, performing in schools all over Sweden at low cost on a regular bases. \n\nSince 1977 the theatre group Tyst Teater (\"Silent Theatre\") is also part of Riksteatern. It's a unique group that specialize in staging theatre productions for deaf in the sign language and has become very popular and sought after internationally in recent years.\n\nIn 1999 \"Riks Drama\" was founded by Lars Norén, Sweden's leading contemporary playwright today, and also the section of \"Riks Gästspel\" for guest performances by Riksteatern abroad.\n\n"}
{"id": "49197543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49197543", "title": "Roman Tomb (Silistra)", "text": "Roman Tomb (Silistra)\n\nThe Roman Tomb of Silistra (, \"Rimska grobnitsa v Silistra\") is an Ancient Roman burial tomb in the town of Silistra in northeastern Bulgaria. Dating to the mid-4th century AD, the Roman Tomb is the best-preserved architectural monument of the Ancient Roman city of Durostorum. The tomb is considered \"one of the most investigated and most discussed monuments of the late antique art in Bulgaria\" and the Balkans, owing in large part to the quality and extent of its interior frescoes.\n\nThough the influence of Christianity had reached Silistra by the time, the Roman Tomb is clearly an example of pagan art commissioned by a pagan owner. Thus, it is considered likely that it predates Theodosius I's persecution of Roman paganism. Its construction also likely preceded the Gothic invasion of Durostorum of 376–378, which caused great turmoil in the city. The invasion may have caused the master's family depicted in the tomb to flee the city, explaining the lack of burials in the tomb. In any case, the tomb must be stylistically ascribed to the 4th century and specifically to Theodosius I's reign.\n\nThe Roman Tomb was coincidentally discovered in 1942 in the southern outskirts of Silistra, a major town in Southern Dobruja on the banks of the Lower Danube. Silistra had only recently been transferred by Romania back to Bulgaria as part of the 1940 Treaty of Craiova. Since 1984, the Roman Tomb of Silistra has been on UNESCO's Tentative List of World Heritage Sites.\n\nThe stone tomb features a single burial chamber and measures . It has a west-east orientation, with the entrance on the east wall and a semi-cylindrical brick vault. It is located amidst the ruins of a necropolis from Late Antiquity which included other similar structures.\n\nCeramic plates, rectangular in shape and painted using the fresco-secco technique, cover the entirety of its floor. In contrast to most other known Roman tombs from the period in the Balkans, the entire interior is covered by multi-coloured mural paintings. The northern, southern and eastern walls feature a procession of servants, whereas the frescoes of the western wall, directly opposite the entrances, depict the master and his wife.\n\nA frieze running along the walls of the tomb contains 11 panels featuring the portraits of male and female slaves bringing various gifts and garments to the masters. The procession runs from either side of the central panel that portrays the masters, providing for a symmetrical composition. The tomb's decoration also includes hunting scenes, candlesticks, plants and animals, including peacocks and pigeons. Overall, the decoration's remarkable level of preservation and the quality of the mural paintings makes the tomb a \"unique example of art and life\" in the outer regions of the Roman Empire during the turbulent 4th century.\n\nThe Roman Tomb of Silistra is situated at the intersection of the Sedmi Septemvri and Boyka Voyvoda Streets in the town. As of 2016, it can only be toured after a prior reservation at the Regional Historical Museum of Silistra.\n\n"}
{"id": "5857999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5857999", "title": "St. Proclus (Michelangelo)", "text": "St. Proclus (Michelangelo)\n\nThe statue of \"St. Proclus\" (1494–1495) was created by Michelangelo out of marble. Its height is 58.5 cm. It is situated in the Basilica of San Domenico, Bologna. Its subject is Saint Proculus (Proculus), a martyr of Bologna.\n"}
{"id": "17480620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17480620", "title": "Telematic performance", "text": "Telematic performance\n\nThe term telematic performance refers to a live performance (art, dance, music, etc.) which makes use of telecommunications and information technology to distribute the performers between two or more locations.\n\nWhile this may involve use of conventional videoconferencing technology, it has more recently come to mean the use of internet technologies. Performance groups my also refer to their events as \"internet concerts\", \"online jamming\", or \"teleconcerts\".\n\nOn June 21, 1982, The first International Summer Solstice Radio Broadcast. Created by Charlie Morrow. Produced by New Wilderness Foundation and WNYC FM. Celebrating the first day of summer (and winter below the equator) with a satellite mix of live events in Sweden, the USA, New Zealand, Canada, Denmark, and Italy. The solstice jam in real time concluded the show.\n\nOn August 26, 2012, a ghostpianist concert has been realized in Berlin Philharmonie. Italian pianist Roberto Prosseda played Chopin's Grande Polonaise Brillante op. 22 on a Yamaha Clavinova digital piano in the backstage of the hall, sending the midi signal in real time to the robot-pianist Teo Tronico, which acted as a mirrorpianist, mirroring Prosseda's performance on the Steinway grand piano on stage with Berliner Symphoniker conducted by Michelangelo Galeati.\n\nPerformers and researchers work to overcome the following obstacles:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50883655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50883655", "title": "The Floating Piers", "text": "The Floating Piers\n\nThe Floating Piers was a site-specific work of art by Christo and Jeanne-Claude, consisting of 70,000 square meters of yellow fabric, carried by a modular floating dock system of 226,000 high-density polyethylene cubes installed at Lake Iseo near Brescia, Italy. The fabric created a walkable surface between Sulzano, Monte Isola and the island of San Paolo.\n\nChristo and Jeanne-Claude began conceptualizing of \"The Floating Piers\" in 1970. Their initial site was Rio de la Plata between Argentina and Uruguay. The couple also considered Tokyo Bay as a location before moving on to other projects.\n\nIn late 2013, Christo settled on Lake Iseo as the location for \"The Floating Piers\" and dedicated the next 22 months to realizing the project. It was the first major project he undertook after the death of his partner and collaborator Jeanne-Claude.\n\nThe project was estimated to cost $11 million, but was later reported at closer to $17 million. The funds were raised by Christo himself through sales of his project sketches and original art. Permits took less than a year.\n\nThe physical installation of the piers was handled by Deep Dive Systems, a company based in Bulgaria. They installed about 220 six-ton anchors in the lake floor at depths of up to 92 meters, over a period of three months. 226,000 cubes were then attached to those anchors, and covered by 70,000 sq. meters of nylon fabric. Over 600 workers were involved in the installation. Traffic planning required a 175-page document and cost €100,000 to produce.\n\nOn June 18, 2016, the saffron-colored walkway opened to the public. 270,000 people visited the free installation in its first five days. Due to the unexpectedly large crowds, organizers began closing the installation from midnight to 6 a.m. each day to allow for cleaning. On June 22, the large crowds caused some chaos at the main train station in nearby Brescia.\n\nOn July 3, 2016, the work closed to the public; local officials estimated that it had attracted 1.2 million visitors, or an average of 72,000 per day, over its 16-day run. Police estimates were even higher, at 100,000 visitors per day. Dismantling of the project began in the early morning of July 4, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "3658207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3658207", "title": "The New York Intellectuals", "text": "The New York Intellectuals\n\nThe New York Intellectuals were a group of American writers and literary critics based in New York City in the mid-20th century. Mostly Jewish, they advocated left-wing politics but were also firmly anti-Stalinist. The group is known for having sought to integrate literary theory with Marxism and Socialism while rejecting Soviet Communism as a workable or acceptable political model.\n\nTrotskyism emerged as the most chosen standpoint among these anti-Stalinist Marxists. Irving Howe, Seymour Martin Lipset, Leslie Fiedler and Nathan Glazer were members of the Trotskyist Young People's Socialist League.\n\nWriters often identified as members of this group include Hannah Arendt, William Barrett, Daniel Bell, Saul Bellow, Elliot Cohen, Midge Decter, Leslie Fiedler, Nathan Glazer, Clement Greenberg, Paul Goodman, Richard Hofstadter, Sidney Hook, Irving Howe, Alfred Kazin, Irving Kristol, Seymour Martin Lipset, Mary McCarthy, Dwight Macdonald, William Phillips, Norman Podhoretz, Philip Rahv, Harold Rosenberg, Isaac Rosenfeld, Delmore Schwartz, Susan Sontag, Harvey Swados, Diana Trilling, Lionel Trilling, and Robert Warshow.\n\nMany of these intellectuals were educated at City College of New York (\"Harvard of the Proletariat\"), New York University and Columbia University in the 1930s, and associated in the next two decades with the left-wing political journals \"Partisan Review\" and \"Dissent\", as well as the then-left-wing but later neoconservative-leaning journal \"Commentary\". Writer Nicholas Lemann has described these intellectuals as \"the American Bloomsbury\".\n\nSome, including Kristol, Hook, and Podhoretz, later became key figures in the development of Neoconservatism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48991850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48991850", "title": "The Ones Below", "text": "The Ones Below\n\nThe Ones Below is a 2015 British thriller directed by David Farr in his feature debut. It was shown in the Panorama section at the 66th Berlin International Film Festival and released on 11 March 2016 in the United Kingdom.\n\nKate (Clémence Poésy) and Justin (Stephen Campbell Moore) are expecting their first child. They also have new downstairs neighbors, Jon (David Morrissey) and Theresa (Laura Birn), who are also expecting their first baby. Kate and Justin invite Jon and Theresa for dinner so they can get acquainted. During their dinner conversation, it's revealed that Kate and Justin originally didn't want children and were together 10 years before deciding to have a baby, and conceived rather quickly thereafter. Jon and Theresa tell them they struggled for seven years to have a child, and Theresa is visibly upset that Kate got pregnant as quickly as she did while she and Jon had tried for years. Eventually, Theresa, who has been sneaking wine all evening, says she doesn't feel well and gets up to leave. In her rush to get out the door, a tipsy Theresa trips over Kate's cat and falls down the stairs and subsequently loses the baby, whom she was going to name Peter.\n\nWhen Kate and Justin attempt to console the grieving couple, they end up in a fight with Theresa, who screams that Kate does not deserve \"that thing\" inside her. A few days later, Kate and Justin receive a note stating that their neighbors have left and will return when they can truly be happy for Kate and Justin's new addition.\n\nKate gives birth and they name the baby Billy. Not long after Billy is born, Jon and Theresa return, apparently in good spirits. Theresa offers to babysit Billy so Kate can have time to herself. When Kate goes off to visit her dead brother's grave, Theresa leaves the house with Billy, but where she takes him isn't revealed. Periodically, Theresa and Jon are shown out and about with Billy. They’re smiling and look like any happy couple with a new baby.\n\nKate and Justin go to Jon and Theresa's apartment for dinner. Kate brings the baby monitor, through which she hears breathing. She rushes upstairs to find the bathtub overflowing. Over the next few days, Kate grows increasingly suspicious about the other couple's behavior. Kate leaves Billy with Theresa and then goes back to her apartment to spy on her. She sees Theresa take pictures of Billy and put him to her breast, apparently in an attempt to nurse him. Appalled, Kate breaks into Theresa's apartment and finds the camera with photos of Billy and photos of Jon and Theresa in public with Billy. She also discovers a fully furnished nursery complete with a framed photo of Jon and Theresa holding a baby, presumably Billy. Kate later drags Justin into the couple's apartment only to find that the photos have been wiped from the camera and the picture in the nursery has been changed.\n\nKate, now on the verge of a complete breakdown, asks Justin to move to a new flat. They find a new place, and he works from home until moving day. This plan is cut short when he's called to work for an emergency. He hands Kate the milk, which she's often seen drinking, as he's leaving and tells her to call the moving van for tomorrow. When Justin reaches the office, he discovers there is no urgent meeting. He then receives an email from Kate stating she's \"sorry\". He rushes home to find Kate drowned in the bath, apparently having killed herself after tossing the baby into a nearby pond. Heartbroken, Justin moves out, as do Jon and Theresa.\n\nThe flashback that follows reveals what really happened: Theresa and Jon drugged Kate via the milk from the bottle Justin handed to her on the way out the door; Jon sent Kate's \"sorry\" email to Justin from her laptop; and Theresa, dressed in Kate's clothing, threw a bundle resembling a swaddled baby into the pond. It's later intimated that the bundle was Kate and Justin's cat.\n\nThe final scene shows Jon and Theresa in their new home in Germany, where they're settling with their baby, \"Peter\".\n\nThe production partly shot at the Port of Dover ferry terminal in Kent. \n\n\nOn review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 72% based on 36 reviews, with an average rating of 6.2/10. On Metacritic, the film holds a score of 63 out of 100, based on 13 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1286212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1286212", "title": "The World (archipelago)", "text": "The World (archipelago)\n\nThe World or The World Islands, located in Dubai, (Arabic: جزر العالم; \"Juzur al-Ālam\") is an artificial archipelago of various small islands constructed in the rough shape of a world map, located in the waters of the Persian Gulf, off the coast of Dubai, United Arab Emirates. The World islands are composed mainly of sand dredged from Dubai's shallow coastal waters, and are one of several artificial island developments in Dubai. The World's developer is Nakheel Properties, and the project was originally conceived by Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the ruler of Dubai. The actual construction was done by two Dutch (joint venture) specialist companies, Van Oord and Boskalis. The same companies also created the Palm Jumeirah.\n\nConstruction of the 300 islands began in 2003, only to halt due to the 2008 financial crisis. Though 60 percent of the islands had been sold off to private contractors back in 2008, development on most of these islands has failed to initiate. As of July 2012, the Lebanon Island was developed and was the only island that had so far been developed commercially, being used for private corporate events and public parties. As of late 2013, only two of the islands had been developed. In January 2014, Kleindienst Group announced the launch of \"The Heart of Europe\" project; by February 2014, one of Kleindienst Group's brands - JK Properties - announced in their monthly newsletter that the project was \"well underway\". The first of these series of islands will be Europe, Sweden and Germany with development led by Kleindienst Group.\n\nIslands in the project range from in area. Distances between islands average ; they are constructed from of sand and 386 million tons of rock. Designed by Creative Kingdom Dubai, the development is an area that covers and is surrounded by an oval-shaped breakwater island. Roughly of shoreline was created. The World's overall development costs were estimated at $13 billion CAD in 2005.\n\nThe archipelago consists of seven sets of islands; Europe, Africa, Asia, North America, South America, Antarctica, and Oceania. Each artificial islands are named for their representative regions, including those representing countries, landmarks, and regions such as the United Kingdom, California, Mount Everest, Australia, New Mexico, Upernavik, Buenos Aires, New York, Mexico, St. Petersburg and India.\n\nThe project was unveiled in May 2003 by Sheikh Mohammed and dredging began four months later in September 2003. By January 2008, 60% of the islands were sold, 20 of which were bought in the first four months of 2007. On 10 January 2008 the final stone on the breakwater was laid, completing development of the archipelago. As of July 2012, a second island, the Lebanon Island was developed and was 'the only island that has so far been developed commercially, is used for private corporate events and public parties.' \n\nThe Times Online reported in September 2009 that work on The World had been suspended due to the effects of the global financial crisis.\nAnd in February 2010 the Daily Mail reported that the islands had started sinking back into the sea. This was later denied by Nakheel and independent technical reports as wholly inaccurate. Despite the denial, The Daily Telegraph reported in January 2011 that an independent company, Penguin Marine, provided verification on the erosion of the islands and the silting of the passageways between the islands. Due to finance and technical problems, Penguin Marine, the company contracted to provide transportation to the archipelago, is attempting to get out of the annual fees of $1.6 million paid to Nakheel properties.\n\nAs of early 2011, only one of the islands had been occupied by a building (a show home) on it, and commercial or residential properties were not currently being constructed on any of the other islands. Property prices in the Emirates had fallen 58 percent from their peak in the fourth quarter of 2008.\nThe world economic recovery from the Great Recession has resulted in a rebound for the Dubai real estate market: it has been reported that \"residential prices [in Dubai] rose by 17.9% from August 2012 to 2013, while rents soared by 14.9% in the same period.\" \n\nIrish investor/businessman John O'Dolan, who purchased the \"Ireland\" island, committed suicide in February 2009, after his consortium fell into financial difficulty.\n\nThe World was supposed to be serviced by four major transportation hubs linked by waterways. Land parcels are supposedly zoned for various uses: estate, mid density, high density, resorts and commercial. A Dubai Infinity Holdings construction planner has stated that developers have been negotiating with Nakheel about temporary siting of a cement batching plant on one of the islands to supply subdivided construction.\n\nThe plan was for utilities to be routed under water, with water plants at each of the hubs pumping fresh water to the islands. Power was to be supplied by the Dubai Grid and distributed through underwater cables, however as of February 2015 no cables had been laid, so that developers currently have to provide their own power from diesel generators. Waste water and refuse systems are an individual concern for each island.\n\nNakheel Group is itself further developing a resort named Coral Island over 20 islands that make up the North American part of The World. The low-rise development will include a marina and hotel village.\nThe second largest confirmed development is the purchase of 14 islands that make up Australia and New Zealand by Investment Dar of Kuwait. The islands are being terraformed to be developed as a resort named OQYANA.\n\nIrish business consortium Larionovo had plans to develop the Ireland island into an Irish-themed resort. The plans include a large internal marina, apartments and villas, a gym, hotel, and an Irish-themed pub. In July 2007 it was announced that the Ireland Island would feature a recreation of Northern Ireland's Giant's Causeway. However, on 25 November 2008 a provisional liquidator was appointed to Larionovo. The islands of Great Britain and Moscow on The World were acquired by Premier Real Estate Bureau in the Summer of 2008. News was leaked in a Daily Mail article of January 2009, refuting claims that Great Britain was owned by Richard Branson, Rod Stewart or John O'Dolan.\n\nIn April 2008, Salya Corporation announced that it had acquired the islands of Finland and Brunei in The World and planned to develop them into fashion-themed resorts. Salya spent about Dh800 million ($218 million USD) to purchase the islands and plans to spend a further Dh2.4 billion ($654 million USD) on development. Brunei Island will be turned into a Fashion TV resort and Finland Island will be turned into a fashion community called FTV palace.\n\nSafi Qurashi, the seven-time multi-millionaire entrepreneur at the head of Premier, and his business partner Mustafa Nagri, paid an estimated $64 million USD for the piece of land; he was later convicted for non-payment of cheques and sentenced to seven years in jail. \nHowever, on appeal he was later found not guilty and released from prison in July 2012 when he was declared innocent of two of the three charges. and On the final charges the civil court final judgment showed he owed no money, was a victim of fraud and vindicated him completely by awarding 10.8 Million USD to be paid back to him by his former partner who had defrauded him. and Safi Qurashi is still the owner of GB Island and continues to live and run his businesses in Dubai and is still confident of developing the Island of GB into a unique destination.\n\nJosef Kleindienst and his firm JK Properties are developing The Heart of Europe, a collection of seven islands (Germany, Netherlands, Sweden, St. Petersburg, Main Europe, Switzerland and Monaco) in the European section of the World, into an island luxury resort. The resort is meant to create a fully immersive European experience, with outdoor snow, and stores accepting only the EURO as a currency.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37720720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37720720", "title": "Tingsted Church", "text": "Tingsted Church\n\nTingsted Church, located on high ground in the village of Tingsted on the Danish island of Falster, dates from c. 1200. Built in the Romanesque style, it is best known for its frescos from the end of the 15th century.\n\nAt an early stage, the pink-plastered church was dedicated to St Peter. As the name Tingsted implies, the place was originally associated with early lawmaking in the area. In 1329, King Christopher II concluded an agreement with Marsk Ludvig Eberstein, head of the armed forces, after his surrender at Hammershus and in 1329 made peace with Count Johann of Holstein. In 1511, Falster's \"landsting\" (regional council) was held in the churchyard and the following year King Hans presided over a dispute between his vassal and the bishop. Jacob Christian Lindberg, who translated the Bible into Danish and, together with Grundtvig played an active part in religious reforms, was named parish pastor in January 1844.\n\nBuilt of local fieldstone with limestone framing around the windows and doors, the church initially consisted of the nave, chancel and a half-domed apse. Traces of the original rounded windows highly positioned in the nave and apse can still be seen. Around 1500, the Late Gothic tower and porch were added and the flat ceiling in the nave was replaced by cross-vaulting. The windows were later adapted to the positioning of the vaults. The tower probably had stepped gables until it received the pyramid-shaped spire. It is thought the relatively steep roof above the nave resulted from the need to provide room for the top of the arches used for the vaulting.\n\nThe panel on the 17th-century altar is the work of Antonius Clement, Queen Sophia's court painter. Its three niches have female figures representing Faith, Hope and Charity and are bordered by slim figures representing the cardinal virtues: Temperance, Justice, Prudence and Fortitude. The elaborately worked Renaissance altarpiece (1616) contains a painting of the Last Supper. The carved baroque pulpit (1633) by Jørgen Ringnis with paintings by Anthonius Clement bears similarities to the one in Kippinge Church. The Romanesque font has a wide, rounded bowl.\n\nThe frescos in the chancel and the nave from the late 15th century are the work of the Elmelunde Master and his workshop. Rediscovered under the whitewash in 1877, they depict the baptism of Jesus, the suicide of Judas, the rich man and the poor man together with the Fall and the Expulsion. The rich man, kneeling before Christ, wears a long-tailed hood, an article of clothing reserved for the more affluent of the time.\n\nThere are also two non-Biblical frescos, one of the wheel of life, the other depicting the churning of butter. The captions around the wheel of life are typical of the Elmelund Master. Three figures of kings are placed around a cartwheel. On the left, the king who is rising says \"regnabo\" (I will rule), the one at the top, dressed in fine clothes and holding a fine glass of wine, announces \"regno\" (I rule), the one on the right, his bearded head hanging low, says \"regnavi\" (I have ruled) while the dead body of the king with folded hands below the wheel is accompanied by a banner stating \"sum sine regno sic transit gloria mundi\" (I am without a kingdom so transpires the glory of the world). \n"}
{"id": "62462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62462", "title": "Umami", "text": "Umami\n\nUmami (, from ) or savory taste is one of the five basic tastes (together with sweetness, sourness, bitterness, and saltiness). It has been described as savory and is characteristic of broths and cooked meats.\n\nPeople taste umami through taste receptors that typically respond to glutamate, which is widely present in meat broths and fermented products and commonly added to some foods in the form of monosodium glutamate (MSG). Since umami has its own receptors rather than arising out of a combination of the traditionally recognized taste receptors, scientists now consider umami to be a distinct taste.\n\nA loanword from the Japanese , \"umami\" can be translated as \"pleasant savory taste\". This neologism was coined in 1908 by Japanese chemist Kikunae Ikeda from a nominalization of \"umai\" () \"delicious\". The compound (with \"mi\" () \"taste\") is used for a more general sense of a food as delicious.\n\nScientists have debated whether umami was a basic taste since Kikunae Ikeda first proposed its existence in 1908. In 1985, the term \"umami\" was recognized as the scientific term to describe the taste of glutamates and nucleotides at the first Umami International Symposium in Hawaii. Umami represents the taste of the amino acid L-glutamate and 5’-ribonucleotides such as guanosine monophosphate (GMP) and inosine monophosphate (IMP). It can be described as a pleasant \"brothy\" or \"meaty\" taste with a long-lasting, mouthwatering and coating sensation over the tongue.\n\nThe sensation of umami is due to the detection of the carboxylate anion of glutamate in specialized receptor cells present on the human and other animal tongues. Some 52 peptides may be responsible for detecting umami taste. Its effect is to balance taste and round out the overall flavor of a dish. Umami enhances the palatability of a wide variety of foods. Glutamate in acid form (glutamic acid) imparts little umami taste, whereas the salts of glutamic acid, known as glutamates, give the characteristic umami taste due to their ionized state. GMP and IMP amplify the taste intensity of glutamate.\nAdding salt to the free acids also enhances the umami taste.\n\nMonosodium L-aspartate has an umami taste about four times less intense than MSG whereas ibotenic acid and tricholomic acid (likely as their salts or with salt) are claimed to be many times more intense.\n\nGlutamate has a long history in cooking. Fermented fish sauces (garum), which are rich in glutamate, were used widely in ancient Rome, fermented barley sauces (murri) rich in glutamate were used in medieval Byzantine and Arab cuisine, and fermented fish sauces and soy sauces have histories going back to the 3rd century in China. In the late-1800s, chef Auguste Escoffier, who opened restaurants in Paris and London, created meals that combined umami with salty, sour, sweet and bitter tastes. He did not know the chemical source of this unique quality, however.\n\nUmami was first scientifically identified in 1908 by Kikunae Ikeda, a professor of the Tokyo Imperial University. He found that glutamate was responsible for the palatability of the broth from \"kombu\" seaweed. He noticed that the taste of \"kombu\" \"dashi\" was distinct from sweet, sour, bitter, and salty and named it \"umami\".\n\nProfessor Shintaro Kodama, a disciple of Ikeda, discovered in 1913 that dried bonito flakes contained another umami substance. This was the ribonucleotide IMP. In 1957, Akira Kuninaka realized that the ribonucleotide GMP present in shiitake mushrooms also conferred the umami taste. One of Kuninaka's most important discoveries was the synergistic effect between ribonucleotides and glutamate. When foods rich in glutamate are combined with ingredients that have ribonucleotides, the resulting taste intensity is higher than would be expected from merely adding the intensity of the individual ingredients.\n\nThis synergy of umami may explain various classical foodpairings: Japanese make \"dashi\" with \"kombu\" seaweed and dried bonito flakes; the Chinese add Chinese leek and Chinese cabbage to chicken soup, as do Scots in the similar Scottish dish of cock-a-leekie soup; and Italians combine Parmesan cheese on tomato sauce with mushrooms.\n\nUmami has a mild but lasting aftertaste associated with salivation and a sensation of furriness on the tongue, stimulating the throat, the roof and the back of the mouth. By itself, umami is not palatable, but it makes a great variety of foods pleasant, especially in the presence of a matching aroma. Like other basic tastes, umami is pleasant only within a relatively narrow concentration range.\n\nThe optimum umami taste depends also on the amount of salt, and at the same time, low-salt foods can maintain a satisfactory taste with the appropriate amount of umami. One study showed that ratings of pleasantness, taste intensity, and ideal saltiness of low-salt soups were greater when the soup contained umami, whereas low-salt soups without umami were less pleasant. Another study demonstrated that using fish sauce as a source of umami could reduce the need for salt by 10–25% to flavor such foods as chicken broth, tomato sauce or coconut curry while maintaining overall taste intensity.\n\nSome population groups, such as the elderly, may benefit from umami taste because their taste and smell sensitivity is impaired by age and medication. The loss of taste and smell can contribute to poor nutrition, increasing their risk of disease. Some evidence exists to show umami not only stimulates appetite, but also may contribute to satiety.\n\nMany foods that may be consumed daily are naturally rich in umami components. Glutamate in the form of inosinate comes primarily from meats whereas guanylate comes primarily from vegetables. Mushrooms, especially dried shiitake, are sources of umami flavor from guanylate. Smoked, or fermented fish are high in inosinate, and shellfish in adenylate.\n\nGenerally, umami taste is common to foods that contain high levels of L-glutamate, IMP and GMP, most notably in fish, shellfish, cured meats, mushrooms, vegetables (e.g., ripe tomatoes, Chinese cabbage, spinach, celery, etc.) or green tea, and fermented and aged products involving bacterial or yeast cultures, such as cheeses, shrimp pastes, fish sauce, soy sauce, nutritional yeast, and yeast extracts such as Vegemite and Marmite.\n\nMany humans' first encounter with umami components is breast milk. It contains roughly the same amount of umami as broths.\n\nThere are some distinctions among stocks from different countries. In \"dashi\", L-glutamate comes from sea \"kombu\" (\"Laminaria japonica\") and inosinate from dried bonito flakes (\"katsuobushi\") or dried sardines (\"niboshi\").\n\nMost taste buds on the tongue and other regions of the mouth can detect umami taste, irrespective of their location. The tongue map in which different tastes are distributed in different regions of the tongue is a common misconception. Biochemical studies have identified the taste receptors responsible for the sense of umami as modified forms of mGluR4, mGluR1 and taste receptor type 1 (T1R1 + T1R3), all of which have been found in all regions of the tongue bearing taste buds. A 2009 review corroborated the acceptance of these receptors, stating, \"Recent molecular biological studies have now identified strong candidates for umami receptors, including the heterodimer T1R1/T1R3, and truncated type 1 and 4 metabotropic glutamate receptors missing most of the N-terminal extracellular domain (taste-mGluR4 and truncated-mGluR1) and brain-mGluR4.\"\n\nReceptors mGluR1 and mGluR4 are specific to glutamate whereas T1R1 + T1R3 are responsible for the synergism already described by Akira Kuninaka in 1957. However, the specific role of each type of receptor in taste bud cells remains unclear. They are G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) with similar signaling molecules that include G proteins beta-gamma, PLCB2 and PI3-mediated release of calcium (Ca) from intracellular stores. Calcium activates the selective cation channel transient receptor potential melastatin 5 (TRPM5) that leads to membrane depolarization and the consequent release of ATP and secretion of neurotransmitters including serotonin.\n\nCells responding to umami taste stimuli do not possess typical synapses, but ATP conveys taste signals to gustatory nerves and in turn to the brain that interprets and identifies the taste quality via the gut-brain axis.\n\nUmami has become popular as a flavor with food manufacturers trying to improve the taste of low sodium offerings. Chefs create \"umami bombs\", which are dishes made of several umami ingredients like fish sauce. Umami may account for the long-term formulation and popularity of ketchup. The United States Food and Drug Administration has designated the umami enhancer monosodium glutamate (MSG) as a safe ingredient. While some people identify themselves as sensitive to MSG, a study commissioned by the FDA was only able to identify transient, mild symptoms in a few of the subjects, and only when the MSG was consumed in unrealistically large quantities.\n\n"}
{"id": "18673799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18673799", "title": "Unguentarium", "text": "Unguentarium\n\nAn unguentarium (plural \"unguentaria\") is a small ceramic or glass bottle found frequently by archaeologists at Hellenistic and Roman sites, especially in cemeteries. Its most common use was probably as a container for oil, though it is also suited for storing and dispensing liquid and powdered substances. Some finds date into the early Christian era. From the 2nd to the 6th century they are more often made of blown glass rather than clay. A few examples are silver or alabaster.\n\nUnguentaria were used as product packaging in commerce and for funerary practice. They are distributed throughout the Mediterranean region of the Roman Empire from Israel to Spain, and north into Britain and Germania. Their manufacture was nearly as widespread.\n\nThe term \"unguentarium\" is functional rather than descriptive; that is, it refers to the purpose for which this relatively small vessel is thought to have been used and is not typological by shape. In its early development, the shape was modeled in miniature after larger amphoras, which would have been the original bulk shipping containers for products sold in the ungentaria. An unguentarium is not always distinguished in the scholarly literature from an ampulla, a term from antiquity that may refer to these as well as other small vessels. In scholarship of the modern era, an unguentarium is sometimes called a \"lacrimarium\" (\"tear-container\") or \"balsamarium\" (\"balsam-container\"). All three terms reflect modern usage based on assumptions about their use, and no single word is found in ancient sources for the vessels.\n\nSmall vessels of two shapes, usually but not always without handles, are referred to as unguentaria:\n\nThe word \"bulbous\" is used rather confusingly in the scholarship to describe both forms. \"Bulbous\" appears as a synonym for \"piriform\", but is applied descriptively to the fusiform to distinguish certain examples from more slender profiles.\n\nThin blown-glass bottles began to appear in Cyprus after the middle of the 1st century BC. The use of the new medium for unguentaria resulted in variations of form, including the thin, \"test-tube\" type. Glass unguentaria made in Thessaly, for example, often have a distinctive conical body, flared like the bell of a trumpet, or are squat and rounded with a very long neck; they come in a range of colors including aquamarine, pale green, and yellowish green, or may be colorless. This shape was popular in the 2nd and 3rd centuries and is also characteristic of Thrace and Cyprus.\n\nGlass bird-shaped containers for cosmetics found at various Roman sites from Herculaneum to Spain have also been called unguentaria. In these examples, dating from the period of the piriform type, the neck has become a spout, and the profile is no longer vertical. As with other unguentaria, no clear distinction can be made between the use of these vessels for grooming in daily life, and their inclusion in tombs.\n\nIn her typology of Hellenistic vessels at Athens used to contain and pour oil, Susan I. Rotroff classes unguentaria with plastic askoi as used for perfumed oil in bathing and grooming, but notes the diversity of craft tradition associated with them. Most unguentaria from the Athenian agora were probably intended for secular use, as they are found in household dumps; the pattern of deposition in some wells, however, suggests votive offerings.\nIt has been suggested that products shipped in bulk containers were dispensed for sale in these smaller vessels. Perfumed oils, ointments, balsam, jasmine, kohl, honey, mastic, incense, scent powders and cosmetic preparations are among the contents proposed by scholars or evidenced by archaeology. With their long slender necks, the vessels were most suited for dispensing liquids, oils, and powders. Roman examples of bulbous unguentaria have been found with traces of olive oil. A sharp distinction should not be made between cosmetics and medicaments, as ingredients for these preparations often overlap. Chemical analysis of red and pink substances in two glass unguentaria from the Ebro valley in Spain showed that they were likely cosmetics, but similar ingredients are found in therapeutic recipes. The name \"unguentarium\" may be misleading, as solid unguents, or ointments, would be difficult to remove through the narrow neck. There is little or no evidence of how the contents were prevented from spilling, as no corks, wax or clay seals, or lead stoppers have been found with unguentaria as they have with other vessels.\n\nThe manufacture of unguentaria seems to occur in conjunction with the marketing of products. Roman glass unguentaria often have markings or lettering, usually on the base, that could indicate the manufacturer of the vessel or the supplier or dealer of the product inside. Nabataean piriform wheel-thrown unguentaria show creative variations by potters, perhaps to establish brand identity for the product they contained. These vessels include some of the larger unguentaria and may have been used for shipping as part of the Nabataeans' active perfume trade.\n\nMass production of Roman blown-glass unguentaria is indicated by their frequent asymmetry, which results from speed and timing in shearing the neck from the blow-pipe. Recycled glass, as from a large, heavy broken bottle, could have been used to make many of the smaller unguentaria.\n\nWhile unguentaria often appear among grave goods, the purpose of their inclusion has not been determined with certainty or may vary by site. Unguentaria found in burials range in size from miniatures (4–5 cm.) to large examples 20 to 30 cm. high. The presence of the vessel in Hellenistic graves may indicate a revival of an earlier practice, attested in the 6th century by aryballoi and in some 5th- and early 4th-century burials by small lekythoi, which involved the deposit of a small container of perfume or oil with the dead. By the 3rd century, the black-figure lekythos with palmettes or Dionysiac scenes has been completely replaced as a standard grave good by the undecorated, \"cruder\" unguentarium, indicating a shift in burial practice that is characteristic of the period.\n\nAlthough the unguentaria seem often to have been buried along with other objects associated with or treasured by the deceased or as grave gifts, they may have also have held a substance — such as oil, wine, or powdered incense — for a graveside ritual. The design of many unguentaria would not permit them to stand without support, but no stands have been found. Late Hellenistic gravestones depict unguentaria resting in a support, but they would also fit well in the palm of the hand, as shown in this Egyptian mummy portrait. Ritual dispensing, rather than long-term storage, might explain both the lack of durability needed for use in daily life and the absence of stands, stoppers or seals.\n\nThere is no standard assemblage of grave goods for which an unguentarium was required. Unguentaria often appear among articles for personal grooming; in one example, with a stone cosmetics pallet, strigils, tweezers and a pyxis, and in another, with a pyxis, mirror, bronze scissors and tongs. Gravestones from Anatolia depict the deceased with a similar group of objects, including mirror, comb, boxes and cistai, wool basket, and unguentaria. One Athenian burial produced five bulbous unguentaria along with five knucklebones and a bronze needle; another, of a female child, contained an unguentarium, earrings, a blue glass pendant, and six knucklebones. Gold leaves and unguentaria were the grave gifts in a burial chamber at Kourion in Cyprus.\n\nAt Amisos (modern Samsun) in the Black Sea region of Turkey, the grave goods in the early Hellenistic tomb of a wealthy family were exceptionally rich and of outstanding workmanship, but the unguentaria were plain and made of clay. One of the bodies was adorned with gold earrings in the shape of Nike, ten gold appliqués of Thetis riding a hippocamp, snake bracelets and bracelets with lion-head terminals, and other gold items; on the right side of the skull was placed a single clay unguentarium.\n\nSome graves contain multiple unguentaria, in one case numbering 31 of the fusiform type, while others hold a single example. Grave gifts sometimes consisted of nothing but unguentaria. Neither the piriform unguentaria nor thin blown-glass vessels occur in burials before the Augustan period. In Mainz, unguentaria are the most common grave gifts made of glass during the first half of the 1st century; in Gaul and Britain, glass unguentaria appear as containers for scented oils in both cremations and inhumations in this period and continuing into the 3rd century, but disappear by the 4th.\n\nRock-cut tombs at Labraunda, investigated in 2005, contained unguentaria.\n\nThe grave goods of Jewish ossuaries at Jericho in the Second Temple period often include unguentaria along with bowls, lamps, and various vessels ordinarily encountered in daily life.\n\nUnguentaria have also been found in Athens in ritual pyres along with the burnt bones of animal sacrifice and smashed pottery. A single unguentarium was buried with a dog, possibly a pet, in an industrial district in Athens.\n\nThe many unguentaria at the Latin town of Aricia reflect the growth of commerce to support ritual activities at the famous sanctuary of Diana there.\n\nMost ceramic unguentaria either lack surface decoration or have simple horizontal lines around the neck or body consisting most often of three narrow bands of white paint.\n\nGlass unguentaria vary widely in quality and show a range of colors. The Judean desert caves, for instance, yielded unguentaria of aquamarine glass with large bubbles. A striking example of a glass fusiform unguentarium from 1st-century Syria, a little over six inches tall, has a white spiral curling around the cerulean body. The base comes to an elongated, rounded point, and the lip is well-formed and prominent. Techniques of \"marbling,\" intended to emulate fashionably extravagant vessels made of sardonyx during the reigns of Augustus and Tiberius, were used for unguentaria as well as bowls.\n\nAn exceptionally elaborate unguentarium was found in a cremation burial at Stobi in Macedonia. Made of milky glass, the vessel has a globular body decorated with an egg-and-dart motif around the top and festoons and vine clusters around the bottom. The middle had six panels illustrating various vessels, with two examples each of the hydria, oenochoe and crater.\n\nThe use of the term \"lacrimarium\" or \"lacrimatorium\" (also \"lacrymatory\" or \"lachrymatory\") for unguentaria persisted because the small vessels were believed to have been used to collect the tears (\"lacrimae\") of mourners to accompany the beloved in the grave. This belief was supported by a scriptural reference () translated in the King James Bible as \"put thou my tears into thy bottle.\" Shakespeare refers to the practice in \"Antony and Cleopatra,\" when Cleopatra chides the Roman for shedding few tears over the death of his wife: \"Where be the sacred vials thou shouldst fill / With sorrowful water?\"\n\nThe minor Victorian poet Charles Tennyson Turner, brother of the more famous Tennyson, wrote a sonnet called \"The Lachrymatory,\" elaborating the idea of \"the phial of his kinsman’s tears.\" Since the early 20th century, the use of a vessel to collect tears of grief has been regarded as more poetic than plausible.\n\nIn January 1896, The Atlantic Monthly published a poem by Frank Dempster Sherman (1860-1916) called \"A Tear Bottle.\" which reference Greek Girl Tears, alluding to the role that the tear bottle played during Greek times\n\n\nAnderson-Stojanovic, Virginia R. \"The Chronology and Function of Ceramic Unguentaria.\" \"American Journal of Archaeology\" 91 (1987) 105–122.\n\nFleming, Stuart James. \"Roman Glass: Reflections on Cultural Change.\" University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology, 1999. \n\nKhairy, Nabil I. \"Nabataean Piriform Unguentaria.\" \"Bulletin of the American Schools of Oriental Research\" 240 (1980) 85–91.\n\nRobinson, Henry S. \"Pottery of the Roman Period: Chronology.\" In \"The Athenian Agora\", vol. 5. American School of Classical Studies at Athens, 1959.\n\nPérez-Arantegui, Josefina, with Juan Ángel Paz-Peralta and Esperanza Ortiz-Palomar. \"Analysis of the Products Contained in Two Roman Glass \"unguentaria\" from the Colony of \"Celsa\" (Spain).\" \"Journal of Archaeological Science\" 23 (1996) 649–655.\n\nRotroff, Susan I. \"Hellenistic Pottery: Athenian and Imported Wheelmade Table Ware and Related Material,\" part 1: text. \"The Athenian Agora\" 29 (1997) iii–575. (full text online).\n\nRotroff, Susan I. \"Fusiform Unguentaria.\" In \"Hellenistic Pottery: The Plain Wares.\" \"The Athenian Agora\" 33 (2006), pp. 137–160. (full text online).\n\nThompson, Homer A. \"Two Centuries of Hellenistic Pottery.\" \"Hesperia\" 4 (1934) 311–476. Edited by Susan I. Rotroff and reprinted with other essays in \"Hellenistic Pottery and Terracottas\" (American School of Classical Studies at Athens, 1987). \n\n"}
{"id": "18020824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18020824", "title": "Washington Project for the Arts", "text": "Washington Project for the Arts\n\nWashington Project for the Arts, founded in 1975, is a non-profit organization dedicated to the support and aid of artists in the Washington, D.C. area.\n\nAlice Denney, a contemporary art collector active on the Washington scene, founded the Washington Project for the Arts (WPA) in 1975 as a \"service center\" for area artists and performers. The WPA's mission was not simply to provide a place for artists to show their work or perform, but also to make available advice in arts management, grantsmanship, career development, and legal rights. Denney launched the WPA with a grant from the Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Foundation, a tiny staff, a three-story building, and a lot of goodwill. The WPA officially opened in April 1975 with a multidisciplinary program that included a broad survey of Washington area visual art.\n\nDenney stepped down as director in early 1979.\n\nAl Nodal, hired by Denney, succeeded her as Director in April 1979. Nodal continued to emphasize the work of area artists, but he added more shows featuring out-of-towners. Nodal started the WPA bookstore, which featured an unusual selection of artists' books and launched a new program to encourage the production or artists books. To support his programs, Nodal landed major grants from the National Endowment for the Arts and the District of Columbia's Commission on the Arts and Humanities. In 1980, WPA held its first auction fundraiser. Nodal ended his directorship in 1983, after WPA's move out of its original 1227 G Street location.\n\nThe board hired Jock Reynolds in the summer of 1983 to replace Al Nodal as Director. The programming under Reynolds received regular coverage in the national art press, shifting WPA from primarily serving local artists to serving a national audience. This shift for the WPA was met with mixed feelings, some welcoming the national prestige, and others accustomed to WPA's mission to focus on local Washington, DC artists. Through his leadership, Reynolds launched an aggressive capital campaign in the spring of 1988 where he brought in generous support from the federal and local government, art foundations, individual donors, and more than eighty corporations or corporate foundations. This raised the bar for WPA, and to maintain its level of activity in the future, it would need to raise close to $1 million each year. In December 1989, Reynolds took a sabbatical and decided not to return to Washington.\n\nJohn L. Moore III, who was already at the WPA, filled in as acting director, from August 1989 until the board hired Marilyn Zeitlin, a contemporary art curator, as executive director in May 1990. The budget for the fiscal year 1991 was set at around a million dollars, but Zeitlin was only able to raise a fraction of that amount.\n\nThe WPA continued to mount an impressive array of programs, but financial problems overwhelmed the organization. When Zeitlin left in May 1992, Don Russell, who had been on the WPA staff in the 1980s, was hired back. At that time, one of WPA's mainstays for financial support, the National Endowment for the Arts, was beginning to eliminate funding for artists spaces. In April 1995, Russell resigned and by December of the same year, WPA was bankrupt. It defaulted on its rent, lost its loan, and closed its doors.\n\nIn 1996, a generous handful of board members and avid WPA supporters paid off the WPA's outstanding debts, wiping the slate clean. With the support of David C. Levy, the director of the Corcoran Gallery of Art, the Corcoran board of trustees, and members of the art community, the WPA's operations were transferred into the Washington Project for the Arts\\Corcoran. The Corcoran would provide inkind support, including an office in the museum's curatorial department, equipment, technical assistance, and the like, but no direct financial support.\n\nIn 1999, Marta Kuzma served as director. Kuzma's term attempted to redirect the program to address Washington, DC as a unique context for international contemporary art projects. She resigned in June 2001 after mounting friction with a Board more focused on serving the local community. After Kuzma's departure, Annie Adjchavanich was named director. While Adjchavanich was director, she ramped up programs for area artists and recruited new members. In March 2005, Adjchavanich left the WPA\\C and Kim Ward, previously membership and finance director, was named acting director until August 2005, when hired as executive director.\n\nUnder the leadership of Kim Ward, the Washington Project for the Arts legally separated from the Corcoran Gallery of Art on December 31, 2007. The organization returned to full autonomy with an office and micro gallery space near Dupont Circle, ending the eleven-year partnership with the Corcoran Gallery of Art.\n\nIn 2008, the organization was a finalist for the Mayor's Award for Innovation in the Arts.\n\nIn 2009, Lisa J. Gold was announced as the new director.\n\nWhen Alice Denney founded the WPA in 1975, she was lucky to snare a rundown building at 1227 G Street, NW, Washington, DC from the city's Redevelopment Land Agency. The rent was only $1 a year. Renovated on a shoestring budget, 1227 G Street included 5 galleries, a film screening room, a performing arts space, and offices. A small board, over half of whom were artists, advised the programming and exhibitions associated with the G street Space.\n\nIn 1982, 1227 G Street was sold to developers and WPA was evicted from its original location. Then director Al Nodal supervised WPA's move to the Jenifer Building in the 400 block of 7th Street, NW, Washington DC. Rent was no longer $1 per year, thus straining the WPA's resources considerably.\n\nIn 1985, only three years after the move from 1227 G Street to the Jenifer Building, the WPA's new home was sold again. The WPA relocated to 7th and E Streets, NW, to what had been a Kresge five and dime. Then director Jock Reynolds made a deal with the new owners of the Jenifer Building that would allow WPA to move back into the building after it was renovated. In December 1988, the WPA was able to move back into its improved space, all because of an aggressive fundraising campaign led by Reynolds.\n\nIn 1996, the WPA was supported by the Corcoran Gallery of Art and became the WPA\\Corcoran. It moved its space into an office in the Corcoran's curatorial office. No longer with an exhibition space of its own, the WPA\\C relied on collaborations and donations of space from other area arts organizations.\n\nWPA currently has an office and micro gallery space at 2023 Massachusetts Avenue, near Dupont Circle.\n\nIn 1981, an early Street Art exhibition entitled \"Street Works\" featured temporary art installations by John Fekner, Fab Five Freddy and Lee Quinones working directly on the streets. \n\nIn June 1989, the Corcoran Gallery of Art canceled \"The Perfect Moment: Robert Mapplethorpe Photographs,\" which included sexually explicit images. This was in the context of the culture wars of the late 1980s, when Sen. Jesse Helms, Rep. Dick Armey, among others, questioned grant funding for individual artists, from the National Endowment for the Arts, for art that they considered \"morally reprehensible trash.\" Not wanting to let an important exhibition fall to the wayside, the underwriters of the show went to the WPA, who presented the controversial show in its own space from July 21 – August 13, 1989. 48,863 visitors, a standing record, attended the exhibition. There was a seminar about the historical impact 20 years later.\n\nIn the Fall of 1989, \"The Blues Aesthetic\" exhibition was held.\n\nIn October through November 1995, it showed a retrospective of the artist Noche Crist, \"Romanian rhapsodies\".\n\nIn December 1995, \"Hostile Witness\" was shown, by the artist, Shailish Thakor.\n\nDecember 2005, WPA\\C mounted \"PostSecret\", a project founded by Frank Warren. In a donated space on M street in Georgetown, Washington, DC, thousands of postcards that were sent into Warren were placed on display. The exhibition drew in large crowds, many whom waited in line to see the exhibit, and can be credited as the most successful exhibition since the Mapplethorpe show.\n\nIn 2006, it sponsored \"Wallsnatchers\", an exhibition of graffiti art, at a vacant Staples building in Georgetown.\n\nIn May 2010, WPA collaborated with The Pink Line Project for Cabaret (re)Revolatire. This event, curated by Alberto Gaitán celebrated the historic Cabaret ReVoltaire series that was presented by WPA in 1992. \n\nThe WPA Biennial exhibition \"OPTIONS\", features under-recognized and emerging artists from the mid-Atlantic region.\n\nPast exhibitions and programs include, \"Wall Snatchers, The Experimental Media Series, Seven, Sculpture Unbound, Anonymous I, Anonymous Returns, Anonymous III, Conversions, Punk Festival,\" and many more.\n\nWPA has collaborated with, The Ellipse Arts Center, Edison Place Gallery, Washington Sculptor's Group, District of Columbia Arts Center, Flashpoint, Corcoran Gallery of Art and College of Art & Design, Warehouse Arts Complex and Theater, Creative Alliance at The Patterson, Gallery5, and many others.\n\nIts archives are held at the Smithsonian Archives of American Art.\n\n"}
{"id": "118449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=118449", "title": "William Holman Hunt", "text": "William Holman Hunt\n\nWilliam Holman Hunt (2 April 1827 – 7 September 1910) was an English painter and one of the founders of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood. His paintings were notable for their great attention to detail, vivid color, and elaborate symbolism. These features were influenced by the writings of John Ruskin and Thomas Carlyle, according to whom the world itself should be read as a system of visual signs. For Hunt it was the duty of the artist to reveal the correspondence between sign and fact. Of all the members of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, Hunt remained most true to their ideals throughout his career. He was always keen to maximize the popular appeal and public visibility of his works.\n\nWilliam Holman Hunt changed his surname from \"Hobman Hunt\" to Holman Hunt when he discovered that a clerk had misspelled the name after his baptism at the Anglican church of Saint Mary the Virgin, Ewell, England. After eventually entering the Royal Academy art schools, having initially been rejected, Hunt rebelled against the influence of its founder Sir Joshua Reynolds. He formed the Pre-Raphaelite movement in 1848, after meeting the poet and artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti. Along with John Everett Millais they sought to revitalise art by emphasising the detailed observation of the natural world in a spirit of quasi-religious devotion to truth. This religious approach was influenced by the spiritual qualities of medieval art, in opposition to the alleged rationalism of the Renaissance embodied by Raphael. He had many pupils including Robert Braithwaite Martineau.\n\nHunt married twice. After a failed engagement to his model Annie Miller, he married Fanny Waugh, who later modelled for the figure of \"Isabella\". When she died in childbirth in Italy, he sculpted her tomb at Fiesole, having it brought down to the English Cemetery in Florence, beside the tomb of Elizabeth Barrett Browning. He had a close connection with St. Mark's Church in Florence, and paid for the communion chalice inscribed in memory of his wife. His second wife, Edith, was Fanny's sister. At the time it was illegal in Great Britain to marry one's deceased wife's sister, so Hunt travelled abroad to marry her. This led to a grave conflict with other family members, notably his former Pre-Raphaelite colleague Thomas Woolner, who had once been in love with Fanny and had married Alice, the third sister of Fanny and Edith.\n\nHunt's works were not initially successful, and were widely attacked in the art press for their alleged clumsiness and ugliness. He achieved some early note for his intensely naturalistic scenes of modern rural and urban life, such as \"The Hireling Shepherd\" and \"The Awakening Conscience\". However, it was for his religious paintings that he became famous, initially \"The Light of the World\" (1851–1853), now in the chapel at Keble College, Oxford, England; a later version (1900) toured the world and now has its home in St Paul's Cathedral, London, England.\n\nIn the mid-1850s Hunt travelled to the Holy Land in search of accurate topographical and ethnographical material for further religious works, and to employ his “powers to make more tangible Jesus Christ’s history and teaching”; there he painted \"The Scapegoat\", \"The Finding of the Saviour in the Temple\", and \"The Shadow of Death\", along with many landscapes of the region. Hunt also painted many works based on poems, such as \"Isabella\" and \"The Lady of Shalott\". He eventually built his own house in Jerusalem.\n\nHe eventually had to relinquish painting because failing eyesight meant that he could not achieve the quality that he wanted. His last major works, including a large version of \"The Light of the World\", were completed with the help of his assistant, Edward Robert Hughes.\n\nHunt died on 7 September 1910 and was buried in St Paul's Cathedral in London, England.\n\nHunt published an autobiography in 1905. Many of his late writings are attempts to control the interpretation of his work. That year, he was appointed to the Order of Merit by King Edward VII. At the end of his life he lived in Sonning-on-Thames.\n\nHis personal life was the subject of Diana Holman-Hunt's book \"My Grandfather, his Life and Loves\".\n\nThe Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood was depicted in two BBC period dramas. The first, \"The Love School\", in 1975, starred Bernard Lloyd as Hunt. The second was \"Desperate Romantics\", in which Hunt is played by Rafe Spall.\n\nFacing Mar Elias Monastery is a stone bench erected by the wife of the painter, who painted some of his major works at this spot. The bench is inscribed with biblical verses in Hebrew, Greek, Arabic and English.\n\n\n\n\n"}
