{"id": "47252077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47252077", "title": "Al Jalila Foundation", "text": "Al Jalila Foundation\n\nAl Jalila Foundation is a non profit charitable organization for promoting medical education and research in the United Arab Emirates. It was founded by Mohamed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the prime minister of the UAE and the ruler of Dubai to encourage medical innovation in the country. The organisation was established on 1 April 2013 and is headquartered at Dubai Healthcare City.\n\nThe formation of Al Jalila Foundation was announced on 26 November 2012 by an official decree 23/2012 to form a foundation for the promotion of innovative medical research and medical education in the United Arab Emirates. The activities of the foundation commenced on 1 April 2014 from its office at Building no. 27 of the Dubai Healthcare City, a free economic zone dedicated to the healthcare sector.\n\nThe organization has a two tier administrative structure. A six-member Board of Trustees, chaired by Ahmed bin Rashid Al Maktoum with \nKhalaf Ahmad Al Habtoor of the Khalaf Ahmad Al Habtoor Foundation as the vice chairman and Abdul Hameed Ahmed Seddiqi, Abdughaffar Hussain, Hussaein Abdul Rahman Khansaheb and Raja Easa Saleh Al Gurg as members constitute the apex body which oversees the activities. The lower body, the Board of Directors, is composed of Raja Easa Saleh Al Gurg as the chairperson, Khaled Mohammed Al Zahed as the vice chairperson and Nart Mamser, Abdulkareem Sultan Al Olama and Essam Al Tamimi as the members. Abdul Kareem Al Olama serves as the Chief Executive Officer and Najib Al Khaja, the Secretary General of the Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum Award for Medical Sciences is the \"Ambassador of Hope\" of the foundation.\n\nThe funding of the activities are by way of government grants and donations from philanthropic organizations and individuals. The organization has set up its website for accepting online donations and encourage philanthropists to assist the foundation in its activities. On 14 July 2015, the Aster DM Healthcare, a Dubai-based healthcare conglomerate chaired by Azad Moopen, made a contribution of 2.72 million to the foundation. It also raises funds by organizing social and sports activities.\n\nThe foundation is mandated to develop a new generation of medical professionals within the UAE by enhancing the medical education and treatment facilities in the country and to support advanced research for achieving medical innovations. It has based its activities on three main themes such as medical research, education and treatment.\n\nThe foundation has revealed its plans to establish a research centre, \"Al Jalila Foundation Research Centre\", the first standalone medical research facility in the country, to be located within the Dubai Healthcare City. It is designed to be a 10 storeyed structure housing research laboratories, clinics and administration offices at a cost of 27 million and will focus on research on diseases such as diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular diseases, cancer and mental health. The centre is expected to be functional by April 2016 and will offer research fellowships, post graduate scholarships and grants to scientists based in the country for their research activities in the country or abroad.\n\nIt has launched a medical research fund, \"Majlis Al Ata’a\", for developing local scientists in association with global and regional scientific institutions. The corpus of the fund, 8.1 million, has been raised through philanthropic assistance of local businesses and individuals such as Khalaf Al Habtoor, Raja Eisa Al Gurg, Abdul Ghaffar Hussain, Riyadh Sadek, Mohammad Al Ansari, Siddharth Balachandran and Dubai Holding among others. The fund will operate from within the scope of services of the upcoming Al Jalila Foundation Research Centre and will be housed in the centre. \"A’awen\" fund, a programme initiated by the foundation, provides assistance to patients in the UAE who are financially compromised to go for medical treatment.\n\nThe foundation organizes career fairs in health services to create awareness among Emarati students about career opportunities in the healthcare sector. It has collaborations with universities in the UAE for selecting deserving candidates for its scholarship schemes. It has also entered into an agreement with the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (UAE) for promotion of medical education in the country. The agreement is expected support the six-month training program, \"Ta'alouf,\", launched by the foundation in association with the Zayed University.\n\n"}
{"id": "8647917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8647917", "title": "American University of Antigua", "text": "American University of Antigua\n\nAmerican University of Antigua (AUA) is a for-profit medical school in the Caribbean and is located in Antigua and Barbuda. It is fully accredited by the Caribbean Accreditation Authority for Education in Medicine and other Health Professions (CAAM-HP)\n\nAUA was co-founded by Neal S. Simon, a lawyer and former president of Ross University. AUA began instruction in 2002. In 2008, Bengaluru Based, Manipal Education and Medical Group(MEMG) purchased the college from New York-based Greater Caribbean Learning Resources, Inc. and formed Manipal Education Americas, LLC. In 2006, AUA College of Medicine was approved by the New York State Education Department and, in 2011, recognized by the Medical Board of California.\n\nThe College of Medicine is listed in the World Directory of Medical Schools.\n\nIn 2015, access to the Federal Direct Student Loan Program was granted to American students at AUA.\n\nIn January 2010, AUA opened its campus. The $60 million facility houses more than of classrooms, a simulation lab, a multi-story library, study rooms, an amphitheater, a courtyard, a gym, tennis courts, and administrative and faculty offices.\n\nIn August 2011, AUA announced plans for an $18 million expansion of the Antigua campus. The expansion will bring the campus to a total of 27-acres.\n\nIn 2013, AUA signed an affiliation agreement with the Florida International University Herbert Wertheim College of Medicine that allows AUA clinical students to complete all of their core clinical rotations in the Greater Miami Area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24423749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24423749", "title": "Best Bones Forever", "text": "Best Bones Forever\n\n\"Best Bones Forever!\" is a national bone health campaign that encourages girls ages 9–14 to adopt healthy habits for bone growth and osteoporosis prevention. The campaign was created by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Office on Women’s Health (OWH) in 2009. The campaign uses popular language, bright colors and images, and energetic messages to express a focus on fun and friendship. \"Best Bones Forever!\" aims to improve girls’ bone health behaviors, which include eating foods with calcium and vitamin D and participating in regular physical activity.\n\nIn 2014, OWH concluded its work on the Best Bones Forever! campaign and transferred leadership to American Bone Health, a nonprofit organization that had been a longtime partner of the campaign.\n\nBy the end of high school, girls develop up to 90% of their bone mass. Therefore, it is critical that girls ages 9 to 18 build strong, healthy bones that will remain strong for life. Foods high in calcium and vitamin D and 60 minutes of daily bone-strengthening activity will help lower girls’ risk of developing fractures or osteoporosis later in life.\n\n\nGirls between the ages of 9 and 18 need 60 minutes of physical activity a day, including bone-strengthening activities at least three times a week such as running, jumping, hiking, playing soccer, and dancing.\n\nActivity levels decrease as girls enter their teenage years. Encouraging girls to adopt physical activity as a lifelong habit or lifestyle may help them remain active throughout life.\n\n\n\nCampaign partners help \"Best Bones Forever!\" bring campaign messages and free materials directly to girls and the adults around them such as parents, health care providers, coaches, teachers, etc. Partners developed \"Best Bones Forever!\" products such as t-shirts and charm necklaces for purchase, letting girls become brand carriers and feel campaign ownership. Partners have also placed campaign PSAs in their magazines, event programs, newsletters, and they invite \"Best Bones Forever!\" to attend their events.\n\n\"Best Bones Forever!\" has more than 60 partners, including: National Osteoporosis Foundation, Girl Scouts of the USA, Girls Inc., AllyKatzz.com, Pink Locker Society, Savvy, President’s Council on Fitness, Sports & Nutrition, American Alliance for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance, National Association of School Nurses, Women's Sports Foundation.\n\nThe \"Best Bones Forever!\" traveling display, Skelegirls, allows girls to pose as the faces of the campaign’s signature Skelegirls’ bodies. The photos become a souvenir for girls to share with friends, helping to spread awareness of the campaign and its goals.\n\n\"Best Bones Forever!\" Ambassadors serve as spokespersons for the campaign and role models for girls.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39892795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39892795", "title": "Biomass partitioning", "text": "Biomass partitioning\n\nBiomass partitioning is the process by which plants divide their energy amongst their parts. For example, there may be a tradeoff in proteins and carbohydrates allocated towards leaves for photosynthesis or to roots for the process of nutrient uptake.The study of biomass partitioning is important to crop growth. The percentages of partitioning can be determined with the equation formula_1\nwith \"dW/dt\" is the growth rate \"(dW/dt)\" and \"P\" are the rates of biomass partitioned and the respective partitioning factor for each plant organ \"i\".\n\nOverall, nitrogen availability has a strong effect on partitioning, with plants growing in low-nitrogen areas partitioning most of their biomass to underground structures. Soil nitrogen availability is a strong determinant of biomass allocation. For example, in low productivity systems such as boreal forests, trees devote a large portion of their biomass to roots. But as the soil productivity begins to increase, biomass is primarily allocated to aboveground structures such as leaves and stems. As an overall pattern, the overall lengths of roots begin to decrease as nitrogen concentrations increase.\n\nIn addition to nitrogen as a factor of plant biomass partitioning, other environmental stressors such as water availability play a role. For example, plants that are growing in dry conditions often have a decreased total biomass production but they also contribute more of their biomass to the roots and develop a higher root:shoot. When plants allocate more of their biomass to their roots, they are able to enhance water absorption by tapping further down into the water table as well as extending further laterally with the aid of increased root hairs. But, when there is an extreme soil drought, there is not an increase in root:shoot biomass. This suggests that there is a limit to which plant biomass allocation responds to water stress and possibly other environmental factors as well. It is important for plants to be able to balance their absorption and utilization processes with differing water and nitrogen availabilities because they adjust their growth in order to accommodate the abundances of growth-limiting resources, such as water and nitrogen.\n"}
{"id": "3586590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3586590", "title": "COMLEX-USA", "text": "COMLEX-USA\n\nThe Comprehensive Osteopathic Medical Licensing Examination of the United States (COMLEX-USA) is a series of three osteopathic medical licensing examinations administered by the National Board of Osteopathic Medical Examiners (NBOME) similar to the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE). COMLEX-USA is the most common pathway by which osteopathic physicians (D.O.s) apply for medical licensure, and is accepted in all 50 states. The 3-digit standard scores of COMLEX-USA Level 1, Level 2- Cognitive Evaluation (CE), and Level 3 have a range of 9-999 and a mean of 500. Most candidates score between 250 and 800. 400 is the minimum passing score for COMLEX-USA Levels 1 and 2; 350 for COMLEX-USA Level 3.\n\nCOMLEX-USA Level 1 is typically taken after completion of the second year of medical school. The exam consists of 400 questions administered in one day and consists of two, four-hour exam sessions separated by a 40-minute break. Each of the four-hour sessions allows a ten-minute break which is no longer subtracted from the time allotted for the respective four-hour sessions since the 2017 NBOME policy change. Candidates are expected to know the basic mechanisms of health and disease process. The mean score for the COMLEX-USA Level 1 is approximately 500-540 (for first time test-takers), with a standard deviation of about 85 (although this may vary slightly from year to year). \n\nSpecifically, level one covers basic medical sciences, including:\n\nCOMLEX-USA Level 2, taken during the third or fourth year of medical school, consists of two parts: Level 2-Cognitive Evaluation (CE) and Level 2-Performance Evaluation (PE). Level 2-CE requires candidates to demonstrate knowledge of clinical concepts and medical decision-making. The mean score for the COMLEX-USA Level 2 CE is approximately 540 (for first time test-takers), with a standard deviation of about 100 (although this may vary slightly from year to year). The examination is problem-based and symptoms-based, integrating the clinical disciplines of: \n\nLevel 2-PE was introduced in 2005. It is a one-day, seven-hour clinical skills examination and utilizes standardized patients (actors trained to present clinical symptoms) to test clinical skills. The exam is graded either pass or fail unlike the other COMLEX exams. Testing sites are available in Conshohocken, PA, and in Chicago, IL. Candidates must complete 12 standardized patient encounters, each 14 minutes in duration. Following each encounter, candidates have 9 minutes in order to type a SOAP note. Candidates are strongly encouraged to make full use of the allotted time for each encounter to ensure thoroughness in both components of an encounter. Scoring for the COMLEX-USA Level 2 PE is on a pass/fail basis only. Candidates must demonstrate proficiency in:\n\nThe final examination, COMLEX-USA Level 3, is typically taken after starting a residency program and covers the clinical disciplines of medicine, including:\nBeginning in September 2018, this exam will be a two-day computer-based examination consisting of up to 550 multiple choice questions, and up to 30 additional clinical decision-making cases. The mean score for COMLEX-USA Level 3 is approximately 550 (for first-time test takers), with a standard deviation of about 125.\n\nMany osteopathic medical students apply to ACGME-accredited residencies with COMLEX scores alone. Based on data from recent results of the COMLEX-USA examination, for level 1 and level 2, a score of 500-540 is considered the 50th percentile with scores falling slightly under and over this mark to be considered similarly. A score of 600 is historically considered to be around the 80th percentile. \n\n"}
{"id": "45462548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45462548", "title": "Canadian Association of Emergency Physicians", "text": "Canadian Association of Emergency Physicians\n\nThe Canadian Association of Emergency Physicians (CAEP) is the professional association of emergency physicians in Canada. It is also known in French as \"Association Canadienne Des Medecins d'Urgence\" (\"ACMU\"). The official journal of the CAEP is the Canadian Journal of Emergency Medicine.\n\nThe CAEP helped found the International Federation for Emergency Medicine in 1991 along with the American College of Emergency Physicians (ACEP), the Australasian College for Emergency Medicine (ACEM), and the (then) British Association for Emergency Medicine (BAEM) .\n\n"}
{"id": "44331629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44331629", "title": "Capital punishment in Costa Rica", "text": "Capital punishment in Costa Rica\n\nCapital punishment was abolished in Costa Rica in 1877. The amount of years a person is sentenced to a penitentiary must be stated in the amount of years. Costa Rica, one of many countries, banned capital punishment in 1882. Costa Rica was one of three countries to to abolish the death penalty for all crimes at the beginning of the 20th century. On November 7, 1969, Costa Rica attended the American Convention on Human Rights. Costa Rica and the United States signed an extradition treaty in November 10, 1922 concerning the death penalty. The Costa Rican Minister of Foreign Relations stated \" that it is understood that the government of the United States of America gives assurance that the death penalty will not be passed upon criminals surrendered by Costa Rica to the United States of America for any one of the crimes enumerated in the said treaty\". \n"}
{"id": "15430777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15430777", "title": "Centre for Arab Genomic Studies", "text": "Centre for Arab Genomic Studies\n\nThe Centre for Arab Genomic Studies (CAGS) is a not-for-profit study centre aimed at the characterization and prevention of genetic disorders in the Arab World. The Centre is closely associated with the Sheikh Hamdan Award for Medical Sciences. One of the major projects of CAGS is the Catalogue for Transmission Genetics in Arabs (CTGA), an online, freely accessible database of genetic disorders reported from the Arab World. CAGS has been involved in the Human Variome Project as a representative of the Arab region, and has been one of the first organizations to take an active lead in working on the project. CAGS organizes the Pan Arab Human Genetics Conference every alternate year, to provide a platform for discussion and education on genetic issues in the region.\n\nThe Arab World is known for the increased incidence of genetic disorders among the population. A large part of this is attributed to the widespread norm of consanguinity in the region. Other factors include a social trend to have more children until menopause, selective factors favoring inherited disease characters like thalassemia and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, and the lack of public awareness towards the early recognition and prevention of inherited disease. CAGS was originally envisaged by Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Deputy Ruler of Dubai and Minister of Finance and Industry, UAE, to alleviate human suffering from genetic diseases in the Arab World. The Centre was inaugurated on 25 June 2003 by Hamad Abdul Rahman Al Midfaa, the Minister of Health, and Chairman, Board of Trustees of the Sheikh Hamdan Bin Rashid Al Maktoum Award for Medical Sciences, at the Genetic Centre of Al Wasl Hospital. offices of the Centre for Arab Genomic Studies were located within the premises of Hamdan Bin Rashid Al Maktoum Award for Medical Sciences.\n\nSome of the priority objectives of CAGS are to educate the public and professionals on the important impact of genetic diseases in the Arab World and the methods and benefits of early genetic diagnosis. CAGS also plans to provide comprehensive genetic services by translating research achievements into well-integrated patient treatment programs. It also intends to address the ethical, legal, and social issues that may arise with the implementation of such programs. A small number of local scientists from the UAE constitute the Executive Board of CAGS, which helps in taking policy decisions for the Centre.\n\nIn late 2005 the Arab Council of CAGS was formed, which comprises leading geneticists from different Arab countries. the Council had representations from Bahrain, Egypt, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, and Tunisia. The Council was formed with an aim to facilitate the exchange of information on genetic disorders occurring in Arab countries and to be a medium for multidisciplinary collaborative research aiming at the identification and prevention of genetic disorders in the region.\n\nThe Catalogue for Transmission Genetics in Arabs (CTGA) database is an enormous project, which aims to create a compendium of information related to the entire range of genetic disorders reported among Arabs. This information is available in a freely accessible form at the CAGS website. As of now, the database has information on about 1160 genetic disorders and related genes reported in Arab subjects. CAGS' strategy with regard to the CTGA database is to cover the spectrum of genetic diseases in each of the Arab countries one after the other, ultimately covering the entire Arab World. By December 2008, the database has finished its project with respect to the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, and Oman, and hopes to complete its coverage of genetic disorders in Qatar within few more months.\n\nThe Pan Arab Human Genetics series of Conference is planned to be held every alternate year by the Centre as a means of providing a platform on dialogue and education for geneticists in the region, to share their knowledge and to talk on common issues. The first edition of the conference, held in 2006, was supported by the Human Genome Organization (HUGO), and attracted more than 500 delegates. This conference was preceded by a one-day workshop on \"Fundamental Approaches in Molecular Diagnosis of Hemoglobinopathies\".\n\nThe second Pan Arab Human Genetics Conference, held in November 2007, put more emphasis on the ethics of genetic research. \nThis conference provided a one-day public forum on the Ethical Perspective of Genetic Research; a forum which saw religious \nleaders as well as genetic researchers discussing this very important issue. The scientific part of the congress lasted two \ndays, and was attended by well over 800 delegates, many of them from outside the Arab region. The conference was supported by the Dubai Health Authority, the Dubai Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities Department, the Human Variome Project, and HUGO. Other participating organizations included the Division of Ethics of Science and Technology, UNESCO, the National Institute for Child Health and Human Development, NIH, and the journal, Nature Genetics. Like the previous conference, a two-day pre-conference workshop on the Applications of FISH technology in Cytogenetyics was also held as part of the program of the conference.\n\nCAGS was a participant in the preliminary meeting to discuss the conception of the Human Variome Project (HVP), held in Melbourne, Australia, in 2006. Ever since, CAGS has actively worked towards the Arab Human Variome Project (AHVP), in collaboration with its Arab Council members. Several meeting have been held with the members of the Council, as well as the Director of the HVP in order to understand the nature of work involved, and to initiate the project in the region.\n\nCAGS shares very close ties with the Human Genome Organization (HUGO). HUGO served as a prominent supporter of both concluded editions of the PAHG Conference. In addition, CAGS with the help of the Dubai World Trade Centre and Dubai Convention Bureau, made a successful bid to host the HUGO Annual Human Genome Meet (HGM) 2011 in Dubai.\n\nThe Centre published the first two volumes of its book \"Genetic Disorders in the Arab World\", which is a consequence of its work on cataloguing the Arab genetic disorders. The first volume of this book gives special emphasis on the data from United Arab Emirates, whereas the second volume deals specially with the Kingdom of Bahrain. Another book published by CAGS is a User's Guide on the CTGA database. All books are downloadable without charge from the CAGS website (http://cags.org.ae/publications.html)\n\nAs part of its campaign to educate the general public about genetic disorders and their consequences, CAGS released a pocket-book collection of bilingual (English and Arabic) pamphlets on six common genetic blood disorders in the region. Each of these leaflets provides a general description of an inherited blood disorder, along with its symptoms and major characteristics, and follows it up with causes and risk factors, diagnosis and management of the disease. Also provided in each leaflet is information on studies undertaken in the Arab world on the disease.\n\nScientific articles published by the Centre include articles in the Nucleic Acids Research, American Journal of Human Genetics, and American Journal of Medical Genetics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58976828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58976828", "title": "Choron ki Baoli", "text": "Choron ki Baoli\n\nThe Shahjahan ki baoli, more commonly known as the Choron ki baoli, is a baoli in Maham, Haryana, India. The structure, which was built during the reign of Emperor Shah Jahan, collects and holds rainwater for use by the nearby town of Maham. While no longer in mainstay use, the baoli has been persevered as a tourist attraction.\n\nDue to the infrequent nature of rainstorms in Haryana, water-gathering and holding structures known as stepwells or baoli were constructed to capture rainwater for agricultural and domestic use. The water reserves stored by stepwells like the Choron ki baoli aided in conserving water during long periods of droughts. As such, many similar structures were built in Northwestern India.\n\nThe Choron ki baoli was built in the town of Maham between the years 1658-1659 on the orders of Saidu Kala, a local official. Kala was a member of the Rajastani Chobdar caste and a vassal of Emperor Shah Jahan of the Mughal Empire, who was himself a great patron of architecture. The stepwell built in Maham was intended to alleviate some of the effects of the seasonal drought the town suffered through. In addition, some sources state that treasures looted during the Mughal army's wars were intended to be hidden inside the baoli and in the surrounding area.\n\nThe structure itself contains three separate chambers in which to hold increasing amounts of water; as rain was collected by the structure, one level at a time would be filled. A total of 101 steps lead down to the lowest point of the reservoir. In addition to holding water, rooms were built within and around the stepwell to house travelers and passersby. The entire project was constructed out of bricks and kankar (cement) blocks.\n\nAs of 2018, the structure has decayed, with some of its original carvings and inscriptions being worn away. However, the structure continues to collect and hold water, and has become a tourist attraction.\n"}
{"id": "7874514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7874514", "title": "Clinical Practice Research Datalink", "text": "Clinical Practice Research Datalink\n\nThe Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) is an observational and interventional research service that operates as part of the UK Department of Health. It is jointly funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) and the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). CPRD is working closely with the extensive primary care, topic specific and comprehensive NIHR research networks and with NHS Digital.\n\nThe programme that would develop into the current organisation was initially developed by an Essex general practitioner, Dr Alan Dean, to facilitate day-to-day management of his own general practice, in collaboration with IT staff at the BATA shoe factory in East Tilbury near to his practice. Early programmers included a Czech programmer Jan Boda. In 1987 a venture capital company was set up, named Value Added Information Medical Products Ltd (VAMP) to recruit other practices and form an information base. The early development team of three, Marcella Devenish (formerly a midwife), Philip Lee-Warren (formerly a Senior Medical Laboratory Scientific Officer), under the leadership of Kieran O'Mally, developed further the computerised system using the BOS Microcobol development environment. During this period the number of UK practices using the software product IGP (Integrated General Practice) expanded from a few hundred to over two and a half thousand. In return for anonymous Healthcare data, VAMP Ltd offered GPs the cash equivalent of GBP 500 a month in order to build the VAMP research databank for research purposes. As of 1988, the VAMP research databank comprised 57 practices and 543,100 patients. This figure was doubled to 1.2 million in 1990. One year later, 970 practices allowed VAMP to access their data, while about 1000 practices had a straightforward maintenance agreement with VAMP. \n\nIn November 1993, its parent company was acquired by Reuters Health Information, which donated the database to the Department of Health in 1994, at which time it became General Practice Research Database (GPRD) and contained data from 650 practices (4.4 million active patients). At this time, there were two licensees of the data: dr Alan Dean, and Professor Hershel Jick. Then the database was operated by the Office for National Statistics until 1999, at which point the Medicines Control Agency (MCA) took over. This agency became the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) on 1 April 2003 following a merger with the Medical Devices Agency (MDA). Since then, use of the database has expanded within the UK and overseas. The GPRD was run as a sub-division of the MHRA.\n\nThe research utility of GPRD has been dramatically enhanced by linkage to other datasets on an individual patient level. External datasets included the Hospital Episode Statistics, death certificates, the national cancer registry and MINAP (cardiovascular disease) registry.\n\nFollowing the announcement by the chancellor on the \"Plan for Growth\", a commissioned study entitled the \"Research Capability Programme\" was initiated with the aim of assessing the available research capabilities of the UK and future potential growth areas in this sector. An opportunity was identified for the collaboration of the Department of Health and the MHRA in creating a joint research service, based upon consolidating and expanding existing independent services. The new service, known as the CPRD has been developed to meet the expectations and criteria outlined by the \"Plan for Growth\".\n\nOn 29 March 2012, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency and the Department of Health's National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) launched the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD). On the launch of CPRD, Sir Kent Woods, Chief Executive of the MHRA said, \"The Clinical Practice Research Datalink will provide new data and research services that will improve the health of patients and also make the UK a world leader in life sciences research.\" David Willetts, Minister for Universities and Science, said, \"The UK is a world leader in life sciences, but both the research base and industry tell us that we could make better use of data in order to drive medical breakthroughs. The Clinical Practice Research Datalink will provide researchers with access to safeguarded data that respects patient confidentiality. This will give valuable insights into serious health conditions and ultimately help reduce the time it takes to develop new treatments.\" The GPRD became part of the data services provision from CPRD.\n\nAt its launch in April 2012, CPRD was established as the new, England-wide NHS observational and interventional research service. It has built on the research developments of the GPRD, and also the Health Research Support Service (HRSS) previously managed by the NIHR Research Capability Program.\n\n\nCPRD remains housed within the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency and is now one of the three 'centres' within the Agency.\n\nThe CPRD builds on its predecessors' capabilities and aims to provide a range of services and products in the areas of medical research and public health care. Fundamental to the work of the CPRD is the collection and linkage of anonymised data sets and provision of research services.\n\nThe CPRD utilises the maximum benefit of linked data sets and the UK’s health system to provide researchers with access to high quality anonymous primary and secondary health care data. The data collected allows researchers access to a wealth of information including;\n\n\nThe NHS provides, free at the point of delivery, healthcare to a population of 52 Million in England. With access to the data sets of NHS in England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland the CPRD can provide a population of potentially up to 64 Million patients in the UK. Further access and partnerships have been established to include data sets from other European countries. The linking of anonomysed primary care data with large data registries and related data sets means the CPRD can offer a huge array of data and information for the inclusion in medical research studies. This will include areas such as; prescription drugs uses and effect, long term patient treatment strategy, long term health benefit studies, epidemic and pandemic studies and demographic health and welfare studies.\n\nFor example, an analysis of 100 million GP consultations using CPRD data in 2016 provided the first substantial evidence of the increase in GP clinical workload in England.\n\nThe CPRD has a range of research experience and expertise including:\n\n\nThe CPRD provides consulting services for a range of research activities. Provided by an experienced internal team, the research service offers advice on research methodology and research governance as well as a host of other services. Drawing from its expertise and predecessors' experience the CPRD research team has built a reputation for conducting high-end research projects, from protocol development, gaining approvals for research, data analysis and report and publication writing. The research capacity is such that the CPRD has the resource and expertise to undertake research projects on behalf of customers or independently, for a variety of undertakings from the commercial regulatory, charitable and academic sectors. A huge range of studies from the CPRD and predecessors have been published and a list of published papers can be found at CPRD Research\n\nThe CPRD offers a range of interventional research services to facilitate the running of clinical trials. \n\n\nThe primary health care data collected by the CPRD is taken from participating GP surgeries in the United Kingdom. Personal identifiers are not collected, protecting the privacy of the individuals from whom the data comes. Data collected includes;\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42814669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42814669", "title": "Clinical trials on glucosamine and chondroitin", "text": "Clinical trials on glucosamine and chondroitin\n\nThere is a history of clinical research done on glycosaminoglycans, especially glucosamine and chondroitin, for the treatment of arthritis. Since glucosamine is a precursor for glycosaminoglycans, and glycosaminoglycans are major components of cartilage, ingesting glucosamine might nourish joints, and thereby alleviate arthritis symptoms.\n\nSome of the evidence for the effectiveness of glucosamine is disputed. A 2008–2009 review of all known studies of glucosamine supplements for horses, for example, found that almost all studies had failed to meet usual standards and were fatally compromised by basic errors in their execution, including failure to test whether active ingredients were as stated, lack of adequate (or any) control groups or baseline measurements, very small sample sizes, and ignoring prior research or self-evident omissions. The authors highlighted confirmation bias as a significant issue in such studies, in that most studies were undertaken by manufacturers, on products they already produced commercially, and they were usually undertaken to support claims of benefits which could be used to market the product. More recently, other reviews found little evidence that glucosamine and chondroitin supplements were any better than a placebo or at most only slightly better.\n\nGlucosamine sulfate may be efficacious in ways that glucosamine hydrochloride is not. The Osteoarthritis Research Society International advises arthritis sufferers to discontinue glucosamine therapy if they notice no benefit within six months and the National Institute of Clinical Excellence no longer recommends its use. Despite the difficulty in determining the efficacy of glucosamine, it remains a viable treatment option. Similar trials have been done with chondroitin.\n\nIn general, the clinical trials of the mid-1990s that furnished positive results showing glucosamine efficacy were later deemed to be of poor quality due to shortcomings in their methods, including small size, short duration, poor analysis of drop-outs, and unclear procedures for blinding. At the same time, several independent studies did not detect any benefit of glucosamine supplementation on osteoarthritis.\n\nA Cochrane 2005 meta-analysis of glucosamine therapy for osteoarthritis found that only the Rotta brand of glucosamine appeared to be superior to placebo in the treatment of pain and functional impairment resulting from symptomatic osteoarthritis. However, when the low quality and older studies were discounted and only those using the highest-quality design were considered, there was no difference from placebo treatment. A second 2005 review of glucosamine clinical trials reached a different conclusion. Published in the \"Annals of Pharmacotherapy\", the authors of this review concluded that \"The available evidence suggests that glucosamine sulfate may be effective and safe in delaying the progression and improving the symptoms of knee OA.\"\n\nA systematic review in 2007 found that effect sizes from glucosamine supplementation were highest in industry-funded studies and lowest in independent studies, which may lead one to believe that bias is responsible for the heterogeneity of the clinical study findings regarding the efficacy of glucosamine. An alternative explanation may be that the two commonly available forms, sulfate and hydrochloride, while used interchangeably by the general public and even the medical community, appear to have different pharmacologic effects \"in vivo\". Another 2007 review of the available research concluded that there was \"compelling evidence\" that glucosamine sulfate (but not hydrochloride) slowed the progression of knee and hip osteoarthritis. This finding was confirmed by a 2013 meta-analysis of 19 glucosamine trials which concluded that while neither form of glucosamine appeared significantly more effective than placebo at symptom improvement, glucosamine sulfate alone showed efficacy in improving physical function in knee OA as measured by the Lequesne Index in trials lasting more than 24 months.\n\nIn 2006, the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) funded a 24-week, 12.5 million-dollar multicenter clinical trial (the GAIT trial) to study the effect of chondroitin sulfate, glucosamine hydrochloride, chondroitin/glucosamine in combination, and celecoxib as a treatment for knee-pain in two groups of patients with osteoarthritis of the knee: Patients with \"mild pain\" (n=1229), and patients with \"moderate to severe pain\" (n=354). When the data from both groups were pooled and analyzed, there was no statistically significant difference between groups taking glucosamine HCl, chondroitin sulfate, glucosamine/chondroitin; and those taking an inactive placebo or the positive control, the prescription analgesic celecoxib. The authors of the study analyzed the moderate-to-severe pain group and found that in this group, the combination of glucosamine and chondroitin was more effective at providing pain relief than the positive control with 79% of the glucosamine group reporting at least a 20% reduction in pain compared to 70% for celecoxib and only 54% reporting a similar reduction in the placebo group. However, the researchers caution that given the small size of the sub-group, these findings should be confirmed with further studies. Despite its size and design, the GAIT trial may have also had some important limitations, however. When considering the entire cohort, none of the treatments studied performed significantly better (or worse) than placebo in improving patient WOMAC pain and function scores. In other words, because of the inclusion of both a placebo and a positive control, and the fact that roughly 60% of each treatment group achieved the same level of improvement, it is difficult to conclude anything about the efficacy or non-efficacy of glucosamine in the treatment of knee OA from this study.\n\nIn a follow-up study in 2008, 572 patients from the GAIT trial continued their supplementation for 2 years. After 2 years of supplementation with glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate, alone or in combination, there was no benefit in slowing the loss of cartilage, in terms of joint space width, when compared to a placebo or celecoxib. As in the original GAIT study, this follow-up study was confounded by unexpected results that made if difficult to conclude anything definitive about the effect of glucosamine on slowing the progression of OA. Despite the fact that the glucosamine group showed less than one-tenth the joint narrowing (0.013 mm) as the placebo group (0.166 mm), none of the groups experienced joint space narrowing to the degree the researchers expected (0.4 mm) over the two-year period based on earlier studies of OA disease progression. Thus, while the researchers rightly concluded that no treatment in this study was found to produce a \"a clinically important reduction\" in joint space width loss none of the participants experienced clinically important progression of their disease during the study period either. In another 2-year follow-up study involving 662 patients from the GAIT trial, published in 2010, there was neither significant pain reduction nor improved function when comparing glucosamine and/or chondroitin to a placebo although the positive control also failed to perform significantly better that the placebo in this study.\n\nGlucosamine supplements are widely used for both human and animal joint conditions, at times supported by clinical studies.\n\nHowever a 2008/2009 metastudy reviewed all existing studies on the efficacy of glucosamine treatments and supplements for horses, and concluded negatively, that these studies were usually fatally flawed due to confirmation bias (studies are funded by manufacturers with an incentive to show that benefits exist and commercial pressures that disfavor larger and more thorough studies which would be expensive) and fatal flaws in the design of the study which undermined the conclusions.\n\nThe authors observed that existing studies of glucosamine products are \"usually [undertaken] on products already commercially available and often seeking evidence for efficacy ... but most do not meet a quality standard that provides sufficient confidence in the results\". A paper by the same authors at the 4th European Equine Nutrition & Health Congress (2008) concluded that research into glucosamine-based supplements, for horses at least, has so far \"failed to produce substantial evidence for the functionality of these products in this species\", and that almost every study they had examined had been\n\ncompromised to varying degrees by numerous experimental factors including underpowered studies, unbalanced research design, non-existent or inappropriate controls, unclear or non-representative experimental conditions (i.e. models) and uncharacterized or complex, heterogeneous experimental materials\"\".\n\nThe most common flaws included:\n\n\nDavid Marlin, a past senior scientist and head of physiology at the Animal Health Trust in England, commented on his website on the evidence concerning glucosamine-based supplements for humans and animals, including a list of studies since 2009. As at 2016 he concludes that some degree of evidence exists for benefits from supplements, and that \"[even if] oral joint supplements have little or no efficacy, we might consider that feeding them at least allows owners to feel they are doing something positive for their animals and that any improvement may be due to the placebo effect and therefore there is little risk\". However against this he highlights concerns of overdosing, that shark cartilage products may promote rather than reduce inflammation, and produces have been found to be contaminated with steroids. He also states that \"on closer scrutiny\" studies continue to raise concerns for similar reasons as described in the 2008/2009 study:\n\nDue to the controversy engendered by these results, additional meta-analyses have been undertaken in an attempt to evaluate glucosamine. A 2009 review found little evidence that glucosamine was better than placebo at reversing or restoring degenerative changes to articular cartilage. One published in 2010 in the \"British Medical Journal\" arrived at the following conclusions:Compared with placebo, glucosamine, chondroitin, and their combination do not reduce joint pain or affect the narrowing of joint space. Health authorities and health insurers should not cover the costs of these preparations, and new prescriptions to patients who have not received treatment should be discouraged.\n\nThese conclusions, however, are not shared by all researchers in the field. Specifically, the authors of the 2010 \"BMJ\" meta-analysis have been criticized for poor methodology by including too many dissimilar studies in their analysis. In a subsequent discussion the editors of the \"BMJ\" concluded that, while they still supported the overall results of the study, they no longer accepted the specific conclusions that glucosamine and chondroitin should not be recommended by health authorities or covered by health insurers, stating that these claims \"were not directly supported by [the authors'] data\".\n\nNevertheless, in 2012, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) maintained its position (first published in a comprehensive 2004 letter) that there is no credible scientific evidence to support the proposed health claims regarding consumption of glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate and reduced risk of osteoarthritis, joint degeneration, and cartilage deterioration.\n\nAlso in 2012, a review highlighted the ongoing conflicting clinical data regarding the efficacy of glucosamine concluding both that 1) \"...glucosamine sulfate shows an effect size superior to (or at least equal to) the commonly used analgesic or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs but has no rare or adverse effects\" and 2) the majority of clinical trials assessing glucosamine reported a significant number of subjects who failed to respond to treatment, thereby questioning the benefit of glucosamine.\n\nA 2014 review and analysis conducted by the La Universidad del Zulia located in Maracaibo, Venezuela and funded by the Venezuelan government's Technological, Humanistic, and Scientific Development Council concluded that the preponderance of the available evidence indicates that glucosamine, specifically the sulfate form, has disease-modifying effects and provides symptomatic relief for at least some individuals suffering from OA. The report classified glucosamine as a Symptomatic Slow Acting Drugs for Osteoarthritis (SYSADOA) and states: Although further research is required...glucosamine supplements have been more than sufficiently proven to display overtly beneficial risk-to-reward profiles, and they should remain fundamental components of OA therapy.\n\nA further meta-analysis published in December 2014 by the Parker Institute (Copenhagen, Denmark) sponsored by the Oak Foundation concluded that glucosamine sulfate, but not glucosamine HCl, did have a significant effect on osteoarthritis pain but only when one particular brand was used. Once this effect size was corrected for bias and heterogeneity, the effect size became clinically unimportant.\n\nMany randomized controlled trials have been conducted with mixed results. These trials have been summarized:\n\nThe effectiveness of glucosamine is controversial. Most recent reviews found it to be equal to or only slightly better than placebo. A difference may exist between glucosamine sulfate and glucosamine hydrochloride, with glucosamine sulfate showing a benefit and glucosamine hydrochloride not. The Osteoarthritis Research Society International recommends that glucosamine be discontinued if no effect is observed after six months and the National Institute of Clinical Excellence no longer recommends its use although the Arthritis Foundation compares the effectiveness of glucosamine to traditional NSAID therapy. Despite the difficulty in determining the efficacy of glucosamine, it remains a viable treatment option according to some experts.\n\nChondroitin is not recommended as a treatment for osteoarthritis.\n\nPrior to publication of the negative review by Reichenbach and the equivocal GAIT trial, clinical practice guidelines recommended the use of chondroitin. The OARSI (OsteoArthritis Research Society International) recommended chondroitin sulfate as the second-most-effective treatment for moderate cases of osteoarthritis (although the guidelines were published in 2008, the developers closed their search date in January 2006 – prior to the GAIT trial). In 2003, the European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) supported the usefulness of chondroitin sulfate in the management of knee osteoarthritis and granted the highest level of evidence, 1A, and strength of the recommendation, A, to this product.\n\nThe major trial included in the two reviews above was the Glucosamine/Chondroitin Arthritis Intervention, or GAIT Trial. GAIT was funded by the National Institutes of Health to test the effects of chondroitin and glucosamine on osteoarthritis of the knee. It reported initially in 2006, with further findings in 2008 and again in 2010. This multicenter, placebo-controlled, double-blind, six-month-long trial found that glucosamine plus chondroitin had no statistically significant effect on symptoms of osteoarthritis in the osteoarthritis patients studied. The study, in addition to an inactive placebo, also included an active control, the FDA-approved prescription analgesic drug celecoxib. The researchers found that those taking the active control drug fared no better or worse than those taking glucosamine, glucosamine and chondroitin combined or the inactive placebo.\n\nHowever, in the moderate-to-severe pain subgroup, the combination of chondroitin and glucosamine was found to be clinically more effective (in 25% of the patients) in treating pain than celecoxib or chondroitin and glucosamine taken individually. Due to small sample sizes in the sub-group (roughly 250 people), the researchers concluded that this needs further validation. The study also found chondroitin sulfate to have no significant effect in reducing joint swelling, effusion, or both. These results indicate that glucosamine and chondroitin do not effectively relieve pain in the overall group of osteoarthritis patients, though it may be an effective treatment for those suffering from moderate-to-severe pain.\n\nIn a follow-up study, 572 patients from the GAIT Trial continued the supplementation for two years. After two years of supplementation with glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate, alone or in combination, there was no benefit in slowing the loss of cartilage, in terms of joint space width, when compared to a placebo. However, no patient group, placebo or glucosamine alone, or in combination, experienced joint space width loss at even half the rate expected during this study, making it difficult to assess the clinical effectiveness of any treatment on the progression of OA.\n\nIn another two-year follow-up study, there was no significant pain reduction or improved function when compared to either inactive placebo or celecoxib Some of the researchers' ties to Pfizer (which makes celecoxib) have brought into question the validity of the study.\n\nThe lead author of the GAIT Trial, Allen D. Sawitzke, MD, expressed his disappointment with unexpectedly equivocal findings of the trial, noting in an interview with the Arthritis Foundation, that because of significant limitations, like a small sample size, the GAIT Trial likely didn’t have enough power to determine whether glucosamine and chondroitin are effective treatments for knee osteoarthritis or not.\n\nThe Long-term Evaluation of Glucosamine Sulfate (LEGS) study ran between 2007 and 2011, to study whether glucosamine sulfate, chondroitin sulfate or a combination of both are effective treatments for chronic knee pain due to osteoarthritis. 502 patients (from 605 enrolled) were followed for two years. The main outcomes were disease progression, as measured by joint space narrowing (JSN) and knee pain (VAS). The combination treatment did result in a small but statistically significant (0.1 mm) decrease in 2-year JSN compared with placebo but there was no difference in JSN between this group and the other treatment groups and no differences between any group for changes in knee pain. In summary, there was no significant symptomatic benefit detected for these dietary supplements, and a longer study would be required to test the efficacy of both supplements combined.\n\n"}
{"id": "2935170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2935170", "title": "DATA", "text": "DATA\n\nDebt, AIDS, Trade, Africa (DATA) was a multinational non-government organization founded in January 2002 in London by U2's Bono along with Bobby Shriver and activists from the Jubilee 2000 Drop the Debt campaign.\n\nDATA was created for the purposes of obtaining equality and justice for Africa through debt relief, adjusting trade rules which burden Africa, eliminating the epidemic of AIDS in Africa, strengthening democracy, furthering accountability by the wealthiest nations and African leaders, and transparency towards the people. In 2007, in the United States, DATA and Bono were jointly awarded the National Constitution Center's 2007 Liberty Medal for their groundbreaking efforts to address the AIDS crisis and extreme poverty in Africa.\n\nStart-up funds came from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, financier George Soros, and technology entrepreneur Edward W. Scott.\n\nIn 2007, DATA and the ONE Campaign decided to join forces, and, in January 2008, they formally merged under the name ONE.\n\nDATA received support from the Christian rock / alternative rock bands Switchfoot and Third Day.\n\n"}
{"id": "19639356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19639356", "title": "Debunkify", "text": "Debunkify\n\nDebunkify is a campaign established in July 2006 aimed at dispelling tobacco and secondhand smoke misconceptions in the state of Ohio. A mobile marketing tour, complete with a Debunkify-branded vehicle and a team of brand ambassadors, canvassed Ohio on a 10-month run, with the aim of debunking tobacco myths and correcting tobacco misconceptions at each of its stops.\n\nThroughout June 2007, 17 participating standTunz artists battled it out online for a chance to play at the Myth Farewell Tour Main Event.\n\n"}
{"id": "38673678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38673678", "title": "EGM: prevention of violence against women and girls", "text": "EGM: prevention of violence against women and girls\n\nThe Expert Group Meeting (EGM): prevention of violence against women and girls was convened as part of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women's multi-year programme of work for 2010-2014. The \"Elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls\" forms a priority theme for its fifty-seventh session in 2013 (CSW57).\n\nThe meeting took place in Bangkok, Thailand 17–20 September 2012 and was organised by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women), in collaboration with the following organisations:\n\n\"EGM note 2\" The report reflects the shared discussion and analysis of the major issues, gaps and challenges identified at the EGM and presents key findings and recommendations. It was intended to build on the individual papers on specific issues provided by experts prior to the meeting, and the background paper prepared by the rapporteur. It provides inputs for the reports of the Secretary-General to the CSW and widely disseminated in preparation to the fifty-seventh session of CSW (CSW57).\n\n\"EGM notes 3 to 5\"\nThe EGM brought together a diverse group of people from different backgrounds and regions including academics, practitioners, representatives from women’s organisations and staff members of the United Nations system.\n\nThe experts elected a drafting committee (including two co-chairs) which was tasked to draft the report of the meeting, P miconclusions and recommendations. The following experts were elected to the drafting committee:\n\n\"EGM note 6\" Experts noted that violence against women and girls is defined as ‘any act of gender-based violence that results in, or is likely to result in, physical, sexual or psychological harm or suffering to women [or girls], including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or in private life.’ It exists in multiple, interrelated and sometimes recurring forms, and is a manifestation of historically unequal power relations between men and women.\n\n\"EGM note 7\" Experts stressed that we are at a critical moment where international bodies, nation states and civil society can and must come together to solidify commitments to ending violence against women and girls, as fragile and – in many places – deteriorating economic conditions, persistent environmental degradation, internal conflicts and wars, all contribute to the exacerbation of violence against women and girls, and violations of their rights.\n\n\"EGM note 8\" Experts noted that the impacts of the global financial crisis, the economic pressures on Governments to reduce funding to social services and programmes, and the ongoing resource constraints faced by conflict-affected and developing countries, all risk limiting or reducing the investment States will make in preventing and responding to violence against women and girls.\n\n\"EGM note 9\" However, they highlighted the enormous costs violence against women and girls entails to States and societies as a whole, in terms of reduced human capital, decreased productivity, exacerbated social inequalities, lowered overall educational outcomes, and broad strains on public services. Violence diminishes women’s and girls’ ability to gain an education, earn a living and participate in public life, and live a life free of fear. It has significant health impacts, including psychological consequences, physical injuries, sexual/reproductive health issues and death. In war-affected settings, violence against women and girls inhibits efforts towards peace-building and sustainable recovery, contributing to the risk of resurgent conflict. In development settings, it hinders progress towards achievement of several of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), including those relating to , , and . It has intergenerational impacts, given that women use disproportionately more of their income toward supporting their families, and because violence diminishes their ability to fully participate in their societies (for example in politics, work or education) they are less able to invest in their children’s futures. One study in Chile found that women’s lost earnings alone as a result of domestic violence cost US$1.56 billion or more than 2 percent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product.\n\n\"EGM note 10\" Violence against women and girls therefore entails massive costs to the State, and has a dragging effect on all other social and economic development efforts, particularly in humanitarian and development contexts. It is only by lowering the incidence of violence against women and girls, preventing recurrence, and responding effectively to existing violence to minimise ongoing impacts, that the overall costs of such violence to any economy will be reduced. Experts noted that, in the face of such evidence, prevention is not only possible, but central to the social and economic advancement of developed and developing countries alike. It was reiterated that all States have not only a responsibility to significantly strengthen their planning and budgeting efforts for prevention of violence against women and girls, but that doing so will contribute to positive social and economic outcomes.\n\n\"EGM note 11\" Experts brought together experiences from across developing and developed countries, and from humanitarian contexts (arising from conflict and natural disasters), demonstrating that violence against women and girls could be prevented regardless of political, social and economic conditions. Levels of violence against women and girls vary across countries that with similar economic status or political systems – a variation that can be attributed to different laws, policies, practices, norms, behaviours and attitudes that contribute to, justify or excuse violence against women and girls. Such factors must be targeted to prevent and reduce violence within and across all settings.\n\n\"EGM note 12\" Across developing and developed countries alike, more comprehensive, multi-sectoral and sustained approaches were recognised as necessary to achieve such change, with investments commensurate to the enormous scale of the abuse and its impacts. While the allocation of more resources to prevention remained high on the priority list for experts, political will was also identified as a key factor. It was noted that organisations and communities in some developing countries have led the way in testing and expanding new models for prevention, however experts did not believe any State was currently meeting its full normative obligations in this area.\n\n\"EGM note 13\" Experts reiterated that violence against women and girls is a pervasive and systematic human rights violation, caused by – and reinforcing – gender inequality and entrenched discrimination. While most violence against women and girls is committed by non-State actors or individuals (usually men known to the victims/survivors, often husbands/intimate partners or other family members), experts were adamant that laws, policies and practices emanating from the State – as well as from traditional or customary practices – could also result in direct violence against women and girls, fail to respond to it, or create an environment where such violence was tolerated, excused or justified.\n\n\"EGM note 14\" To this end, experts noted that the prevention of violence against women and girls could not be achieved without the full implementation of the existing legal obligation on States – under the \"Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW)\" to ‘take all appropriate measures to modify the social and cultural patterns of conduct of men and women, with a view to achieving the elimination of prejudices and customary and all other practices which are based on the idea of the inferiority or the superiority of either of the sexes or on stereotyped roles for men and women,’ along with the more detailed obligations relating to the elimination of violence against women and girls outlined in the \"Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action (BPfA)\". Experts emphasised, as central to the latter, the obligation on States to ‘refrain from invoking any custom, tradition or religious consideration to avoid their obligations’ to eliminate violence against women and girls.\n\n\"EGM note 15\" A key message from experts was that the call for greater efforts to prevent violence against women and girls is not a ‘new demand,’ but well supported by international legal and normative frameworks. What is new is the emergence, in recent years, of an unprecedented evidence and practice base that provides concrete guidance on the application of proven and effective strategies, and makes prevention of violence against women and girls a tangible and measurable goal. We now know that to effectively prevent violence against women and girls, efforts must go beyond simple awareness-raising projects and instead work to actively (and measurably) transform discriminatory and violence-supportive attitudes and behaviours, community norms, institutional practices and systems, laws and policies, and society as a whole.\n\n\"EGM note 16\" Experts noted that this holistic and comprehensive approach to prevention has the potential to create numerous benefits for communities beyond reductions in violence, because it also addresses the discrimination, inequality and other violence-supportive practices and behaviours that contribute to a range of social ills. Prevention of violence against women and girls is ultimately about building relationships, communities and organisations that are equal, non-violent and respectful of all individuals. It results in the creation of more peaceful, egalitarian and productive societies where women and girls live free from the discrimination, harassment, violence and fear of violence that can block them from reaching their full human potential.\n\n\"EGM note 17\" The focus of the meeting (and this report) was on prevention of violence against women and girls \"before it occurs\", that is, by identifying and addressing its underlying causes and promoting shifts in the social environment that ultimately reduce the number of new incidents of violence against women and girls.\n\n\"EGM note 18\" Experts noted that prevention of violence against women and girls remains a poorly understood concept across sectors and stakeholders. Prevention is often conflated with early intervention or the response to existing violence, or else limited to awareness raising or social marketing campaigns. Simplistic analyses and programmes aimed at single-cause factors such as alcohol abuse, or placing the responsibility to prevent violence on women and girls themselves (such as self-defence programmes) can in some cases do more harm than good, and are not uncommon. Cynical perceptions that violence against women and girls is somehow an inevitable part of society, and that efforts to prevent it are well-intentioned but ultimately ineffective, are also widespread. There is therefore a need to build not only evidence, but shared understandings of the complexity and causes of violence against women and girls, and of how it can be effectively prevented.\n\n\"EGM note 19\" Experts recognised that this transformative agenda engages all levels of the socio-political system, from policy and legislative development, to the development and delivery of programmes and services ‘on the ground’, and the capacity building of the institutions responsible for implementation. Confronting existing social and gendered realities that continue to use arguments based on culture, customs and ‘traditional’ values and practices to justify discrimination and violence against women and girls, and treat them as subordinate and second-class citizens, remains a major challenge in addressing the social and cultural environments that permit violence against women and girls to flourish with impunity. As the Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences has noted: ‘no form of interpersonal violence against women is devoid of structural violence – as in all places, such abuse is underpinned by beliefs about the perpetrator’s right to harm another, based on societal notions of gender and rights.’\n\n\"EGM note 20\" Experts were particularly keen to convey that, in prevention terms, violence against women and girls in the private sphere and/or perpetrated by non-State actors could \"not\" be considered as something ‘separate’ from the actions of the State. Experts stressed that violence against women and girls – in every context – can be perpetuated by State decision-making mechanisms, laws, policies and practices when these systematically marginalize women and girls and/or fail to promote their rights. These include not only legal policies and programs that fail to criminalize violence against women and girls or adequately punish it, but also State-sanctioned discrimination, for example: excluding women from political participation (such as assemblies, high-level government positions, and key decision-making bodies like constitutional committees); constitutional language that threatens women’s rights (whether existing or developing in emerging State structures); or discriminatory laws, policies and budgets which disproportionately limit women’s and girls’ rights, neglect their voices and concerns, and fail to promote full substantive, as well as formal, equality between men and women.\n\n\"EGM note 21\" State-sanctioned violence and discrimination against women is significantly tied to cultural and social norms that pervade a nation, which are then used to justify, excuse or tolerate violence against women and girls. When laws and policies limit women’s freedoms or deem women as ‘complementary’ instead of ‘equal to’ men, this trickles down to public perception of women and girls and their role in society, and undermines their safety and security within the State. These social and cultural norms are similarly impacted by the respect, or otherwise, of women’s civil and political rights (such as their political participation), and their economic, social and cultural rights (such as their access to work and education). Greater levels of social and economic equality between men and women, for instance, are closely correlated with lower levels of violence against women and girls at the population level. Similarly, greater visibility of women in leadership roles, including in constitution committees, assemblies and high-level posts in government, in peacekeeping troops and in peace-building talks, promotes positive and egalitarian norms and combats gender stereotypes in a way that counters discriminatory and violence-supportive attitudes and the marginalization of women and girls.\n\n\"EGM note 22\" Prevention of violence against women and girls is often conceptualised in terms of awareness raising or community mobilisation, and these are important components. Experts reiterated the importance of grassroots community mobilisation in driving attitudinal and behavioural transformation at the local level. However, in light of the above, experts stressed the more expansive and multi-level nature of effective prevention, in particular the critical role of government to create an ‘enabling environment’ through undertaking policy, legislative and budgetary reform to promote gender equality and women’s empowerment, and actively address the multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination and disadvantage that place women and girls at risk of violence. They emphasised the additional role of States in providing support to women’s and other civil society actors, including women, men and youth community and religious leaders and opinion-makers, in their prevention efforts.\n\n\"EGM note 23\" Experts further stressed the importance of continued investment in an effective \"response\" to existing violence against women and girls – including through improving legislative, police, justice and service systems – as a fundamental ‘building block’ for prevention, establishing accountability and redress, and protecting women and girls from further violence. Effective response systems are also necessary to ensure support of women and girls who may identify violence in their own lives as a direct result of prevention activity and seek help and redress. Experts acknowledged that a separate stream of work on building an effective multi-sectoral response was being undertaken in preparation for CSW.\n\n\"EGM note 24\" Experts recommended that prevention and response strategies be developed and implemented as a holistic and integrated system that upholds the human rights of girls and women to live in societies, communities and families that are free of such violence. However, while essential, experts noted the evidence that an effective response has, in itself, only a limited impact on reducing the number of new incidents of violence. Specific actions to address the foundations of violence – discriminatory and violence-supportive practices, laws, norms, behaviours and attitudes – are also necessary in order to prevent violence against women and girls from happening in the first place, within and across all settings. These are the focus of discussions and recommendations in this Report.\n\n\"EGM note 25\" The emphasis on economic growth in the development agenda globally has led to growing inequalities and a reduced focus on redistribution. The rolling economic crises currently gripping almost all of the world’s countries has resulted in increased unemployment and poverty, a shortage of housing, and cutbacks in social spending including subsidies for health and education. These multiple crises have in turn fuelled communal and ethnic tensions, mass migration and displacement, rendering millions homeless and poor, and more vulnerable to trafficking and diverse forms of exploitation. In most communities, this also results in the heightened vulnerability of women and girls to violence and exploitation.\n\n\"EGM note 26\" Experts noted the evidence that violence against women and girls is intensified and exacerbated in situations of socio-economic stress, conflict and other crisis situations. In addition to the impact of economic crises described above, global warming and associated rising sea levels and severe weather events, as well as environmental degradation and resource depletion, can all contribute to conditions of social and economic vulnerability, including homelessness and mass migrations. They can also lead to the disaster or crisis situations in which violence against women and girls is known to increase.\n\n\"EGM note 27\" As discrimination based on sex and gender continues to dominate social formations even in the 21st century, experts noted that violence against women and girls continues to be perceived as ‘normal’ in many contexts. The pervasive nature of militarization and the growth of all forms of religious fundamentalisms and other forms of extreme nationalism creates cultures where women are reduced to being symbolic ‘bearers’ of their culture and have their mobility and autonomy restricted in many different ways.\n\n\"EGM note 28\" Exacerbated by the conditions described above (and even without them) women and girls experience daily harassment, abuse, discrimination and violence across the numerous settings in which they conduct their lives, from workplaces, schools and other educational institutions, community and faith organisations and groups, market places, shops, on public transport, in social settings, online and via social media, during flight and while displaced as a result of conflict and natural disasters, and above all in their homes.\n\n\"EGM note 29\" Experts also identified emerging contexts and issues that have an impact on violence against women and girls. For example, experts agreed that the role of new media presents a number of layered and complex challenges, as well as opportunities, for the prevention of violence against women and girls. In the first instance, new media is often a platform for the perpetuation of harmful masculinities and the objectification of women and girls. This can take a number of forms from everyday hyper-sexualised, one-dimensional images of women and girls to hard-core pornography which has moved from the peripheries to the mainstream of the pornography industry. Virtual spaces are also utilised to perpetuate direct attacks on women and girls. This can range from cyber-stalking to the posting of inappropriate images / videos of women. For example, women have increasingly reported incidents of footage of them engaged in sexual activity (filmed both with and without consent) being posted on internet sites without their consent. In a number of cases this has included the posting of footage of actual rapes.\n\n\"EGM note 30\" Violence in the virtual space and the wider issues of how women and girls are objectified in the media has particular implications for girls and younger women, who are much more like to engage with social networking sites, instant messaging, etc. Despite the range of violations, incidents can be hard to prosecute, especially as the internet is not limited to nation spaces. There are also real challenges around balancing the right to freedom of expression with the right to be protected from discrimination.\n\"EGM note 31\" Experts also noted with concern the emerging evidence that adolescent girls and young women may also be targeted for sexual violence in the context of serious youth violence (e.g. youth gangs) and/or broader urban violence. They may also be members of gangs themselves and involved in perpetration of violence against other young women and girls within or between gangs. Experts further expressed the concern that adolescent girls and young women were frequently overlooked in policy and programming responses designed for young men, adult women or for children in general, yet the context of their lives may be quite distinct and require specific approaches, particularly given they are the age group at greatest risk of sexual violence.\n\n\"EGM note 32\" In humanitarian crises caused by conflict and/or natural disasters, women and girls are at risk of violence throughout all stages: during crises, during flight from crises, while living in displaced settings, and during and following return. In situations of armed conflict, women and girls can be exposed to violence at the hands of armed actors, including soldiers and military assigned to protect civilians and assist in their safe flight from conflict. They may be recruited into armed groups and serve as sexual slaves to combatants. In some settings women and girls continue to be used as ‘weapons of war,’ subject to sexual assault by all parties to conflict, at times in front of their husbands, children, and other family or community members.\n\n\"EGM note 33\" While much attention has been accorded to sexual violence against women and girls during conflict, they suffer many additional forms of violence in humanitarian emergencies, including sexual exploitation, trafficking, early marriage, and intimate partner violence. Experts noted that all of these forms of violence can be averted or reduced with effective prevention programming from the contingency planning phase through to recovery, and States’ responsibilities to work towards the prevention of this violence are reinforced by a broad normative framework mandating protection of women and girls from sexual and other forms of violence in emergencies. And yet, prevention programming remains weak in virtually every humanitarian setting around the world.\n\n\"EGM note 34\" Experts further noted the evidence that while more than 740,000 men, women, and children die each year as a result of armed violence, the majority of these deaths – 490,000 – occur in countries that are not affected by conflict. The proliferation of small arms increases the vulnerability of women and girls to violence, and exacerbates the seriousness of that violence. This is particularly true in the context of urban/serious youth (e.g. gang) violence (referred to above), but also in the case of violence in the home, where the presence of small arms significantly increases the risk of the victim being killed. The violent deaths of approximately 66,000 women and girls are attributed to armed violence globally each year.\n\n\"EGM note 35\" Experts were finally keen to emphasise that – even within the same geographic or socio-political setting, ‘context’ was not the same thing for different women and girls. Women and girls often experience multiple and intersecting forms of social disadvantage and discrimination (in addition to that based on gender), and this compounds their individual and collective vulnerability to violence. The Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences, has recently noted that theories on violence have often ‘failed to provide a comprehensive understanding of how various forms of discrimination, beyond a male/female gender binary, contextualize, exacerbate, and correlate to high levels of violence in given societies. The lack of an intersectional approach can lead to the reinforcing of one form of discrimination in attempts to alleviate another.’ Factors such as race, ethnicity, caste, class, age, religion, sexual orientation, marital status, geographic location, disability, HIV status or status as a refugee or internally displaced person, will all influence the forms and nature of violence women and girls may suffer, and the relationship of these factors to prevention is discussed in the ‘Key Findings’ section.\n\n\"EGM note 36\" The international community is committed to eliminating violence against women and girls and has recognised – in various global and regional legal and policy instruments – the important role of prevention towards this end.\n\n\"EGM note 37\" Above all, State responsibility for prevention of violence against women and girls through social and behavioural change is supported by the foundational treaty on women’s human rights, the \"Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women\" (CEDAW), which establishes signatories’ legal obligation to take ‘all appropriate measures [to] modify the social and cultural patterns of conduct of men and women, with a view to achieving the elimination of prejudices and customary and all other practices which are based on the idea of the inferiority or the superiority of either of the sexes or on stereotyped roles for men and women.’ General Recommendation 19 of the CEDAW Committee defines violence as a form of discrimination against women, and establishes the obligation of States to act with ‘due diligence’ to prevent and respond to violence against women and girls.\n\n\"EGM note 38\" The \"Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women\" enhanced the definition of violence against women and also included protection of women from violence committed in the private domain as being an obligation of the state. Responsibilities of the State to prevent violence, abuse and neglect of girls are further supported by the \"Convention on the Rights of the Child\", requiring States parties to ‘take all appropriate legislative, administrative, social and educational measures to protect the child from all forms of physical or mental violence, injury or abuse, neglect or negligent treatment, maltreatment or exploitation, including sexual abuse’ including ‘forms of prevention,’ along with its two Optional Protocols.\n\n\"EGM note 39\" The \"Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action\" (BPfA), adopted at the Fourth World Conference on Women in 1995, recognised the complexity of the underlying causes of violence against women and girls, and the need to link prevention and response activities. Paragraph 118 notes that:\n\n\"EGM notes 40 to 51\" Other global policy and legislative / normative frameworks that are currently in place.\n\n\"EGM note 52\" In conclusion, while the normative framework has clearly developed an obligation for States to take holistic, comprehensive, strategic and well-resourced action to prevent violence against women and girls, and while States have increasingly ratified the relevant treaties and in some cases brought these obligations into their legal frameworks, much work remains to be done before the normative obligations will be fully implemented. Gaps remain in terms of resource allocation, legislative and policy development, and systems and mechanisms for coordinated and sustained action.\n\n\"EGM note 53\" In considering the above analysis, experts believed that a significant global shift in perceptions was necessary towards greater recognition of the widespread and systematic nature of violence against women and girls, deserving of more serious attention by States and the international community. Experts returned to and supported the international definition of violence against women and girls in the \"Declaration\", i.e. as a violation of human rights and a form of discrimination against them, that shall mean all acts of gender-based violence that result in, or are likely to result in, physical, sexual, psychological or economic harm or suffering to women and girls, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or in private life.\n\n\"EGM note 54\" However, some experts noted that such violence is not isolated or sporadic, but could be seen as part of a widespread or systematic practice intended to humiliate or degrade an identifiable group. As such, they called for violence against women and girls to be considered a crime against humanity. Others cautioned against linking violence against women and girls to current definitions of crimes against humanity, given the existing limitations of international law and jurisprudence. It was noted that the landmark February 2008 judgement of the Sierra Leone Appeals Chamber of the Special Court in the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council case had set an historic precedent in recognising forced marriage as a distinct category of crimes against humanity in international criminal law. Experts therefore agreed that calling for violence against women and girls to be recognised as a crime against humanity was intended as an aspirational statement and advocacy goal, one which would expand current definitions and understanding of crimes against humanity – in a way similar to the Sierra Leone case – and help drive a global shift in perceptions towards one that recognises the full seriousness of violence against women and girls, and the urgency with which we must prevent it.\n\n\"EGM note 55\" Based on comprehensive discussion at the EGM, review of the papers presented by experts, and an analysis of the global context, normative framework and evidence and practice base, experts agreed on the following key findings. Experts noted the significant development, over recent years, of guidance to States and other stakeholders in the development, implementation and monitoring of policy and programming to prevent violence against women and girls, and again\nreferred to the papers submitted to the EGM as providing further information on current practice. Rather than reiterate that guidance here, experts have confined their findings below to the emerging issues, and those perceived to be of most critical relevance to CSW.\n\n\"EGM note 56\" Experts wished to reiterate, as a finding and central tenet of their recommendations, that prevention of violence against women and girls is a positive endeavour, a precondition for enabling women and men to reach their full potential, and is essential to the creation of healthy, equitable, stable and productive communities, workplaces, schools and universities, faith and cultural institutions, sporting and recreation organisations, and societies as a whole.\n\n\"EGM note 57\" Noting recent research highlighting the unique and catalysing impact of women’s organisations on enduring and effective policy development to end violence against women and girls, experts were unanimous that effective prevention of violence against women and girls was not only often driven by, but \"required\" the involvement of women’s organisations, working in partnership with national, provincial and local Governments, communities, civil society groups, donors, the private sector and other non-state actors.\n\n\"EGM note 58\" Experts emphasized the importance of moving away from short-term, ad hoc sensitisation and awareness raising activities and towards more comprehensive, longer-term prevention efforts that are grounded in communities and work systematically to change unequal power relations between women and men. Such social norm change requires working with a cross section of the community from women and men, young people, religious and cultural leaders, health care providers, police, government officials, the media and others, over time and in varied ways, to challenge norms that perpetuate violence and emphasize the positive benefits of non-violence, justice and equality for individuals, families and the broader community. Civil society plays an essential role in mobilising communities to rethink the acceptability of violence and supporting positive change.\n\n\"EGM note 59\" However, while women’s and other civil society organisations and communities themselves have been at the forefront of developing the practice and evidence base for prevention programming, factors such as time, reach and workforce constraints can prevent many good initiatives from being evaluated, expanded or otherwise scaled-up. Research has also shown that those working to end violence against women and girls can themselves face discrimination, hostility, repudiation and even violence, precisely because they challenge traditional notions of the family and gender that contribute to such violence.\n\n\"EGM note 60\"\nTo maximise the impact and sustainability of such work, therefore, Governments have a key role to play in supporting and creating an enabling environment for women’s organisations and others working to prevent violence against women and girls to continue to drive and innovate prevention programming, safe from violence and discrimination themselves. Governments should also activate their reach and mandate to ensure the scale-up, systematisation and embedding of good practice in laws, policies and through public institutions (e.g. schools, social and health services, media and workplace regulation) for long-term sustainability.\n\n\"EGM note 61\" Experts noted that without States taking their full responsibility for sustained, systematic and coordinated policy, programming and investment for prevention, the transformative social development necessary to end violence against women and girls cannot be achieved. Few States worldwide had implemented their obligations to this end. A 2011 review of National Action Plans on Violence against Women found that most policies were limited to responding to existing violence. Those that did contain specific prevention actions largely focussed on raising awareness of new laws or where to access services, with some containing one-off or single-sector prevention activities such as social marketing campaigns or schools-based programmes. Only one identified plan took a long-term, multi-sectoral and holistic approach to prevention, with appropriate institutional support mechanisms and commensurate investment.\n\n\"EGM note 62\" Importantly, one-off, single-sector or small-scale interventions, while they may have some effectiveness for participating individuals, are unable to change the social norms at the community or society level that have a dampening effect on such attitudinal change. Therefore, they can never in themselves decrease prevalence of violence against women and girls across society as a whole. Broad and sustainable change is only achieved when such activities are implemented in a long-term and cumulative way, mutually reinforced across various settings. These should be linked to a prevention framework which is coordinated to ensure that all levels are appropriately engaged, with evaluation and monitoring for continuous improvement. It is particularly essential that all strategies and interventions are supported by policy and legislative reform that promotes gender equality, challenges discrimination, and provides an effective response to existing violence.\n\n\"EGM notes 63 to 102\" Other key findings from the EGM.\n\n\"Recommendation 103\"\nExperts stressed the critical importance of women’s organisations, civil society, international institutions, donors and States working together to go beyond ‘ad hoc’ approaches to prevention, and for States to take their responsibility for developing long-term and multi-sectoral strategies so that activity can be coordinated, and evidence built, to achieve real results. With an increased commitment from all actors to such an approach, and corresponding investment, many experts believed violence against women and girls could be ended within a generation. To this end, experts have made recommendations (see below) for a coordinated and target-focussed approach to preventing violence against women and girls, driven by two overarching activities – a Global Implementation Plan – framing the work of international, regional and national institutions (including States) toward the goal of ending violence against women and girls, along with a Global Advocacy Campaign – driven by women’s and other civil society organisations to create momentum and provide accountability for the above.\n\n\"Recommendation 104\" Also, given CSW’s specific mandate with regards to implementation of the \"Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action\" experts have made further recommendations for immediate implementation, aligned with the BPfA’s strategic objectives of taking integrated measures to prevent and eliminate violence against women, and studying the causes and consequences of violence against women and the effectiveness of preventive measures. While the BPfA objectives cover both prevention of, and response to, violence against women and girls, and experts supported full implementation of all of these, the recommendations below build on those areas focussing on prevention.\n\n\"Recommendation 105\" Finally, experts identified recommendations arising from emerging issues or gaps in the evidence and practice base regarding prevention of violence against women and girls in certain contexts and settings. These include recommendations for prevention in settings affected by humanitarian crises such as conflict and natural disasters; contexts of serious urban or youth violence; with regards to representation of women and girls in the context of mass media as well as in new social media; and in the context of the global financial crisis and shifting geopolitics. In addition to the broad recommendations below that are relevant to all settings, special attention has been given to certain contexts and settings in order to highlight specific strategies for prevention related to these particular areas of concern. Experts have also chosen to highlight certain recommendations specific to preventing violence against girls, including adolescent girls, and young women, as a frequently overlooked group worthy of special consideration.\n\n\"Recommendation 106\"\nExperts agreed that while an international legal and normative frame work for preventing violence against women and girls is already in place, there are two major barriers to its implementation. The first is that social and cultural norms and customs are often used as a shroud or excuse for laws, practices and behaviours that are either directly violent and discriminatory towards women and girls, or else contribute to and support violence against them. The BPfA clearly calls on States to ‘refrain from invoking any custom, tradition or religious consideration to avoid their obligations with respect to its elimination as set out in the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women,’ and experts were adamant that this entails an active obligation on States to examine their own laws and policies, and challenge the communities, organisations and individuals in their jurisdictions, to eliminate norms and customs that excuse, justify or tolerate violence against women and girls, and which exist in all societies.\n\n\"Recommendation 107\"\nA second barrier to full implementation of existing obligations is the lack of a coordinated, strategic agenda at international, regional and national levels for modifying ‘the social and cultural patterns of conduct of men and women, with a view to achieving the elimination of prejudices and customary and all other practices which are based on the idea of the inferiority or the superiority of either of the sexes or on stereotyped roles for men and women,’ required by CEDAW. This is an essential precondition and support for the sustainable prevention of violence against women and girls. As noted above, such prejudices, practices and stereotypes are rampant in all societies, expressed as much through channels such as media and popular culture, as through institutions more identifiable as the bearers of custom or ‘tradition’ (e.g. faith institutions). A much greater commitment and level of resourcing is required from all States, along with significantly improved coordination of policy, programming and research at global, regional and national levels towards a shared strategic agenda to eliminate these and so meet the legal obligation under CEDAW.\n\n\"Recommendation 108\"\nTo this end, an overarching recommendation from experts was that Member States commit, at CSW in 2013, to develop a Global Implementation Plan to End Violence against Women and Girls, to be launched in 2015, with a particular focus on prevention of violence against women and girls. This Plan should aim to provide vigilance on established international obligations (particularly the overarching BPfA and CEDAW obligations cited above), and serve as the tool for operationalising these norms into national policy and programming in a coordinated and results-based way.\n\n\"Recommendation 109\"\nThe Global Implementation Plan to End Violence against Women and Girls, endorsed and supported by Member States at its launch, would aim to:\n\"Recommendation 110\"\nDevelopment of the plan should be linked to the processes defining the post-2015 development agenda, to ensure that the prevention of violence against women and girls is rightly understood as crucial to the meeting of other internationally agreed development goals, and that targets relating to the prevention of (and response to) such violence are explicitly identified and well situated in the post-2015 development framework.\n\n\"Recommendation 111\"\nDevelopment of the plan would require, among other things:\n\"Recommendation 112\"\nDevelopment of the plan should include the proactive engagement of new partners (such as the private sector, sporting organisations, religious and cultural leaders, the media and entertainment industry), with a critical eye to the internal structures and methods of operation of such partners to ensure they fully support and in no way undermine the human rights of women and girls.\n\n\"Recommendation 113\"\nExperts further recognised the crucial and catalytic role of women’s organisations and called for them to help build support and momentum for the above. A global ‘movement for prevention’ is needed, engaging a critical mass of individuals, groups and institutions working together to create communities and countries that are safe for women and girls and where their rights are respected.\n\n\"Recommendation 114\"\nExperts’ second overarching recommendation was therefore that women’s organisations, in partnership with other civil society organisations and identified willing international and regional institutions, States and other relevant parties, lead a Global Advocacy Campaign to Prevent Violence against Women and Girls, as a crucial accompaniment to the development of the Implementation Plan above. The Advocacy Campaign could include the creation of plain language communications materials, mechanisms to share information and practice, avenues for capacity development, and advocacy strengthening, for example through the training of male and female youth and veteran activists and leaders to monitor progress of nations on international agreements, produce reports, and represent women’s and girls’ priorities and interests in international fora. The aim of the Advocacy Campaign would be to create momentum for the Implementation Plan, ensure the consistent promotion of evidence-informed, rights-based prevention activity, and hold international, regional and national stakeholders accountable to women and girls.\n\n\"Recommendation 115\"\"\nWhile the Global Implementation Plan may take one to two years to develop, there are many areas of work that States have already committed to under the BPfA Strategic Objective D1 – to take integrated measures to prevent and eliminate violence against women – and upon which they can and should take immediate action. Below are recommendations elaborated by the experts in line with the growing evidence and practice base on prevention, in support of these existing commitments.\n\n\"Recommendation 116\"\"\nIn line with BPfA’s Paragraph 124(j), calling on Governments to ‘formulate and implement, at all appropriate levels, plans of action to eliminate violence against women,’and Paragraph 124(p)calling for the allocation of ‘adequate resources within the government budget and mobilis[ation of]community resources for activities related to the elimination of violence against women, including resources for the implementation of plans of action at all appropriate levels,’ experts recommend that States work in partnership with funders, international and regional institutions, women’s and civil society organisations and other stakeholders to develop, implement,\nevaluate and monitor coordinated, multisectoral and sustained prevention strategies, alongside and reinforcing strategies to improve the response to existing violence. Such strategies should\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37589545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37589545", "title": "Glasgow effect", "text": "Glasgow effect\n\nThe Glasgow effect refers to the low life expectancy and poor health of residents of Glasgow, Scotland, compared to the rest of the United Kingdom and Europe. Defined as \"[e]xcess mortality in the West of Scotland (Glasgow) after controlling for deprivation\", the Glasgow effect is part of the \"Scottish effect\"; the country as a whole has health disparities compared to the rest of Europe, and indeed it has been called \"the sick man of Europe\". The disparities are greatest in Glasgow.\n\nAlthough lower income levels are generally associated with poor health and shorter lifespan, epidemiologists have argued that poverty alone does not appear to account for the disparity found in Glasgow. Equally deprived areas of the UK such as Liverpool and Manchester have higher life expectancies, and the wealthiest ten percent of the Glasgow population have a lower life expectancy than the same group in other cities. One in four men in Glasgow die before they are 65.\n\nSeveral hypotheses have been proposed to account for the ill health, including the practice in the 1960s and 1970s of offering young, skilled workers in Glasgow social housing in new towns, leaving behind a demographically \"unbalanced population\". Other suggested factors have included a high prevalence of premature and low birthweight births, land contaminated by toxins, a high level of derelict land, more deindustrialisation than in comparable cities, poor social housing, religious sectarianism, lack of social mobility, soft water, vitamin D deficiency, cold winters, higher levels of poverty than the figures suggest, adverse childhood experiences and childhood stress, high levels of stress in general, and social alienation.\n\nThe city's mortality gap was not apparent until 1950 and seems to have widened since the 1970s. \"The Economist\" wrote in 2012: \"It is as if a malign vapour rises from the Clyde at night and settles in the lungs of sleeping Glaswegians.\"\n\nThe mortality rates are the highest in the UK and among the highest in Europe. As of 2016, life expectancy in Scotland was lower for both females and males than anywhere else in western Europe, and was not improving as quickly as in other western European countries. With a population of 1.2 million in greater Glasgow, life expectancy at birth is 71.6 years for men, nearly seven years below the national average of 78.2 years, and 78 years for women, over four years below the national average of 82.3.\nAccording to the World Health Organization in 2008, the male life expectancy at birth in the Calton area of Glasgow at that time was 54 years. A local doctor attributed this to alcohol and drug abuse, and a violent gang culture. According to Bruce Whyte of the Glasgow Centre for Population Health, writing in 2015, the estimate was based on deaths in 1998–2002 in an area comprising 2,500 people, and the figures may have been affected by the presence of hostels for adults with alcohol, drug and mental-health problems. The 2008–2012 estimate for Calton and nearby Bridgeton together, by then more ethnically diverse and with fewer hostels, was 67.8 years for males and 76.6 years for females.\n\nResearch led by David Walsh of the Glasgow Centre for Population Health in 2010 concluded that the deprivation profiles of Glasgow, Liverpool and Manchester are almost identical, but premature deaths in Glasgow are over 30 percent higher, and all deaths around 15 percent higher, across almost the entire population. The higher mortality is fueled by stroke, respiratory disease, cardiovascular disease and cancer, along with deaths caused by alcohol, drugs, violence and suicide. According to a 2016 study, 43 percent of adults are classified as either disabled or chronically ill. Suicide rates are higher than they were in 1968, and the all-cause mortality rate in the 15–44 age group is 142.4 deaths per 100,000. Drug-related deaths in Scotland more than doubled between 2006 and 2016.\n\nThe Glasgow Centre for Population Health (GCPH) was established in 2004 to study the causes of Glasgow's ill health; the centre's partners are NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde, Glasgow City Council and the University of Glasgow. In a publication introducing the GCPH, the Chief Medical Officer for Scotland, Harry Burns, referred to research suggesting that chronically activated stress responses, especially in children, affect the structure of parts of the frontal lobes of the brain, and that these determine the physical reaction to stress, which could result in chronic ill health. The ability to attain good health, he suggested, depends in part on whether people feel in control of their lives, and whether they see their environments as threatening or supportive.\n\nA GCPH report in 2016 concluded that certain historical processes and policy decisions had left the city more vulnerable to deprivation. Factors include the \"lagged effects\" of overcrowding and the former practice, in the 1960s and 1970s, of offering young, skilled workers social housing in new towns outside Glasgow; this, according to a 1971 government document, threatened to leave behind an \"unbalanced population with a very high proportion of the old, the very poor and the almost unemployable\".\n\nOther hypotheses have included a higher prevalence of premature and low-birthweight births; land contaminated by toxins such as chromium; a high level of derelict land, leading to a \"negative physical environment\"; more deindustrialisation than in comparable cities;\nand low-quality housing estates. Social deficits and sources of social dysfunction have been suggested: religious sectarianism; a low \"sense of coherence\"; low social capital; lack of social mobility; and a culture of alienation and pessimism. Soft water (with lower levels of magnesium and calcium) has been mentioned as a possible factor, as have cold winters; vitamin D deficiency; higher levels of poverty than the figures suggest; and adverse childhood experiences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17597483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17597483", "title": "Golden Age Passport", "text": "Golden Age Passport\n\nGolden Age Passport was a pass issued by the National Park Service until January 1, 2007. It has been replaced with the Senior Pass of the new pass series now called America the Beautiful – National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Pass, created by the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act and authorized by Congress in December 2004.\n\nThe Senior Pass is a lifetime entrance pass to United States national parks for those 62 years and older. To obtain this a senior citizen need only go to any National Park Service facility that charges an entrance fee with the following: \n\n\nThe pass is also available for $90 by mail from the US Geological Survey (extra $10 is for postage and handling). \n\nSome consider this one of the best travel bargains in the United States.\n\nThe National Park Service words the Senior Pass on their website as: \n\n\"This is a lifetime pass for U.S. citizens or permanent residents age 62 or over. Valid at Federal recreation entrance or standard amenity fee sites for: pass holder and occupants of single, private, non-commercial vehicle OR one motorcycle; OR pass holder and three persons (16 and older) where per person fees are charged. The pass can only be obtained in person at the park. The Senior Pass provides a 50 percent discount on some Expanded Amenity Fees charged for facilities and services such as camping, swimming, boat launch, and specialized interpretive services. In some cases where Expanded Amenity Fees are charged, only the pass holder will be given the 50 percent price reduction. The pass is non-transferable and generally does NOT cover or reduce special recreation permit fees or fees charged by concessionaires.\"\n\nThe now obsolete Golden Age Passport worked in a similar manner as the Senior Pass with the exception that the accompanying persons needed to be spouse and/or children of the cardholder.\n\nThere are similar passes within this series:\n\n\nThe current fees for these should be verified at the National Park Service website which will also provide additional answers to frequently asked questions. \n\nParticipating agencies included in the pass series are the National Park Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture (Forest Service), Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Land Management and Bureau of Reclamation. Some Corps of Engineers and Tennessee Valley Authority sites may honor the Senior Pass and the Access Pass for camping discounts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22381410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22381410", "title": "Hans Alfred Nieper", "text": "Hans Alfred Nieper\n\nHans Alfred Herbert Eugen Nieper (23 May 1928 – 21 October 1998) was a controversial German alternative medicine practitioner who devised \"Nieper Therapy\". He is best known for his claims to be able to treat cancer, multiple sclerosis, and other serious diseases. In 1986 an FDA release discredited his therapy as ineffective and unsafe. There is, however, no record official record of this FDA release. \n\nHans Nieper was born in Hanover, Germany on May 23, 1928. His parents - who were both physicians - were Ferdinand Nieper (b. 1887) and Margarete Krauss (b.1898). They were married in 1925. Shortly after getting married, Hans' parents began working at the Wahrendorff Psychiatric Hospital (now known as ) at Sehnde-Ilten, near Hanover.\n\nHans' fascination with science and medicine came long before he was a physician. Coming from a family with an extensive background in medicine, Hans eventually followed in the family footsteps and became a physician himself.\n\nHans' father Ferdinand Nieper was a son of Herbert Nieper (1848-1939), who was the Chief Surgeon at the hospital in Goslar, which was renamed the Dr.-Herbert-Nieper-Krankenhaus in his honor. In 1879 Hans' grandfather Dr. Herbert Nieper married Karla Marie Johanne Elisabeth Wahrendorff (b. August 21, 1859), who was a daughter of Ferdinand Wahrendorff (1826-1898), founder of the Wahrendorff Psychiatric Hospital.\n\nAs a child and adolescent, Hans spent most of his time at the Wahrendorff Psychiatric Hospital. His parents granted him complete intellectual freedom. As he matured, Hans' parents encouraged him to participate in stimulating conversations about the nature of the mind, the relationship between biology and mentality, and the validity of orthodox medicine, and to ask questions and raise points on his own. These experiences in Hans' early years taught him to think analytically, to question orthodox assumptions, and to explore ideas and thoughts without fear of censure or ridicule.\n\nHans Nieper was educated at the Johann Gutenberg University and the University of Freiberg before earning his medical degree at the University of Hamburg. During his career, he served as Director of the Department of Medicine at the Paracelsus-Klinik am Silbersee (Paracelsus Silbersee Hospital) in Hanover-Langenhagen, and as Director of the German Society for Medical Tumour Treatment.\n\nNieper was among the first researchers to work with lithium orotate. Nieper and biochemist Dr. Franz Josef Köhler (1909-1984) patented Calcium AEP (Calcium 2-aminoethylphosphate), which they believed could be helpful in combating such diseases as juvenile diabetes, gastritis, ulcer, thyroiditis, Myocarditis and Hodgkin's Disease. However, there is no evidence from reputable clinical trials for the success of the \"Nieper Regime\" for treating multiple sclerosis utilizing Calcium AEP. The \"Nieper Therapy\" approach to cancer also uses Calcium AEP, along with selenium. It is based in part upon Nieper's belief that cancer is rarer among sharks than other fish, and upon his theory that the lower blood-sodium level of sharks may be the reason. \"Nieper Therapy\" places among its primary goals the reduction of that sodium in cancer patients.\n\n"}
{"id": "46372527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46372527", "title": "Health Data Consortium", "text": "Health Data Consortium\n\nThe Health Data Consortium (HDC) is a Washington, D.C.-based public-private partnership that advocates for the availability and use of health data, in particular government health datasets, and the improvement of health and health care through patient data accessibility and innovative use of data. HDC is a 501(c)(3) organization.\n\nIn 2010, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services launched the Health Data Initiative to make its data available for public use and, in collaboration with the Institute of Medicine, hosted a public forum featuring various private, non-profit, and entrepreneurial stakeholder groups to explore how the data could be used to promote innovation that would improve people's health. This forum was held again in 2011 and 2012, wherein it was rebranded into its current iteration as the Health Datapalooza.\n\nDue to the success of the forum and growing industry interest, HHS, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, the California HealthCare Foundation, and other parties involved believed that there needed to be a structured organization independent of the government that could convene stakeholder groups and promote the health data mission year-round. They approached Forum One Communications to help establish this organization as a public-private partnership, which was named the Health Data Consortium.\n\nIn February 2013, Dwayne Spradlin was announced as acting CEO of HDC. He was succeeded by Dr. Christopher Boone, who was appointed Executive Director in October 2014.\n\nThe Health Datapalooza conference continues the work of the Health Data Initiative Forum by convening stakeholders annually. In particular, Health Datapalooza is known for highlighting health care startups that use health data to develop programs and applications by way of a coding challenge or through demos of the applications.\n\nThe Health Data All Stars is a directory of organizations and websites that offer open health datasets for public viewing and use. The directory currently features over fifty open health data entries.\n\n"}
{"id": "35324922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35324922", "title": "Health in El Salvador", "text": "Health in El Salvador\n\nFor the period between 2005 and 2010, El Salvador had the third lowest birth rate in Central America, with 22.8 births per 1,000. However, during the same period, it had the highest death rate in Central America, 5.9 deaths per 1,000. In 2015 life expectancy for men was 67.8 years and 77.0 years for women. Healthy life expectancy was 57 for males and 62 for females in 2003. There was considerable improvement in socioeconomic and health status from 1990 to 2015.\n\nDuring the 1970s there was widespread malnutrition. Sewage systems were rare in rural areas even in the 1980s. There were high rates of infant mortality, malaria and water-borne diseases.\n\nThe public healthcare system consists of \n\nIn 1984 there were ten general hospitals and twelve health centers in the country. The Medical School of the National University was closed in 1980. There are now 30 public hospitals in El Salvador, plus various primary care facilities and 27 basic health care systems. Before 2009 a “voluntary” donation was demanded for access to a public hospital or clinic. Clinics staffed by Community Health Teams have been established in the rural areas. Although services are supposed to be free shortage of funds means that people may have to pay for supplies. Emergency services are very basic.\n\nThe private health sector offers care in medical facilities concentrated in urban areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "15985790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15985790", "title": "Health in Switzerland", "text": "Health in Switzerland\n\nSwitzerland had the lowest mortality in Europe, at 331 per 100,000 population in 2015. It had the highest rate of death from drug use at 3 per 100,000. \n\nSwitzerland has an infant mortality rate of about 3.6 out of 1,000. The general life expectancy in 2013 was 80.5 years for men and 84.8 years for women, with an 82.6 year average. These are among the world's best figures.\n\nA new measure of expected human capital calculated for 195 countries from 1990 to 2016 and defined for each birth cohort as the expected years lived from age 20 to 64 years and adjusted for educational attainment, learning or education quality, and functional health status was published by the Lancet in September 2018. Switzerland had the twelfth highest level of expected human capital with 25 health, education, and learning-adjusted expected years lived between age 20 and 64 years. \n\n"}
{"id": "354628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=354628", "title": "History of mental disorders", "text": "History of mental disorders\n\nExplanations of abnormal behavior derive from theories or models popular at the time. Three major models, namely, supernatural model, biological model and psychological model.\n\nFor much of our recorded history, deviant behavior has been considered a reflection of the battle between good and evil. When confronted with unexplainable, irrational behavior and by suffering and upheaval, people have perceived evil. In fact, in the Great Persian Empire from 900 to 600 B.C., all physical and mental disorders were considered the work of the devil.\n\nPhysical causes of mental disorders have been sought in history. Important to this tradition are a man, Hippocrates; a disease, syphilis; and the early consequences of believing that psychological disorders are biologically caused.\n\nThis was a precursor to modern psychosocial treatment approaches to the causation of psychopathology, with the focus on psychological, social and cultural factors. Well known philosophers like Aristotle, Plato, etc., wrote about the importance of fantasies, dreams, cognitions, and thus anticipated, to some extent, later developments in psychoanalytic thought and cognitive science. They also advocated humane and responsible care for individuals with psychological disturbances.\n\nMental illnesses were well known in ancient Mesopotamia, where diseases and mental disorders were believed to be caused by specific deities. Because hands symbolized control over a person, mental illnesses were known as \"hands\" of certain deities. One psychological illness was known as \"Qāt Ištar\", meaning \"Hand of Ishtar\". Others were known as \"Hand of Shamash\", \"Hand of the Ghost\", and \"Hand of the God\". Descriptions of these illnesses, however, are so vague that it is usually impossible to determine which illnesses they correspond to in modern terminology. Mesopotamian doctors kept detailed record of their patients' hallucinations and assigned spiritual meanings to them. A patient who hallucinated that he was seeing a dog was predicted to die; whereas, if he saw a gazelle, he would recover. The royal family of Elam was notorious for its members frequently suffering from insanity. Erectile dysfunction was recognized as being rooted in psychological problems.\n\nLimited notes in an ancient Egyptian document known as the Ebers papyrus appear to describe the affected states of concentration, attention, and emotional distress in the heart or mind. Some of these were interpreted later, and renamed as hysteria and melancholy. Somatic treatments included applying bodily fluids while reciting magical spells. Hallucinogens may have been used as a part of the healing rituals. Religious temples may have been used as therapeutic retreats, possibly for the induction of receptive states to facilitate sleep and the interpretation of dreams.\n\nAncient Hindu scriptures-Ramayana and Mahabharata-contain fictional descriptions of depression and anxiety. Mental disorders were generally thought to reflect abstract metaphysical entities, supernatural agents, sorcery and witchcraft. The Charaka Samhita from circa 600 BC, which is a part of the Hindu Ayurveda (\"knowledge of life\"), saw ill health as resulting from an imbalance among the three body fluids or forces called Tri-Dosha. These also affected the personality types among people. Suggested causes included inappropriate diet, disrespect towards the gods, teachers or others, mental shock due to excessive fear or joy, and faulty bodily activity. Treatments included the use of herbs and ointments, charms and prayers, and moral or emotional persuasion.\n\nThe earliest known record of mental illness in ancient China dates back to 1100 B.C. Mental disorders were treated mainly under Traditional Chinese Medicine using herbs, acupuncture or \"emotional therapy\". The Inner Canon of the Yellow Emperor described symptoms, mechanisms and therapies for mental illness, emphasizing connections between bodily organs and emotions. The ancient Chinese believed that demonic possession played a role in mental illness during this time period. They felt that areas of emotional outbursts such as funeral homes could open up the Wei Chi and allow entities to possess an individual. Trauma was also considered to be something that caused high levels of emotion. Thus, trauma is a possible catalyst for mental illness, due to its ability to allow the Wei Chi open to possession. This explains why the ancient Chinese believed that a mental illness was in reality a demonic possession. According to Chinese thought, five stages or elements comprised the conditions of imbalance between Yin and yang. Mental illness, according to the Chinese perspective is thus considered as an imbalance of the yin and yang because optimum health arises from balance with nature.\n\nChina was one of the earliest developed civilizations in which medicine and attention to mental disorders were introduced (Soong, 2006)As in the West, Chinese views of mental disorders regressed to a belief in supernatural forces as causal agents. From the later part of the second century through the early part of the ninth century, ghosts and devils were implicated in “ghostevil” insanity, which presumably resulted from possession by evil spirits. The “Dark Ages” in China, however, were neither so severe (in terms of the treatment of mental patients) nor as long-lasting as in the West. A return to biological, somatic (bodily) views and an emphasis on psychosocial factors occurred in the centuries that followed. Over the past 50 years, China has been experiencing a broadening of ideas in mental health services and has been incorporating many ideas from Western psychiatry (Zhang & Lu, 2006) \n\nIn ancient Greece and Rome, madness was associated stereotypically with aimless wandering and violence. However, Socrates considered positive aspects including prophesying (a 'manic art'); mystical initiations and rituals; poetic inspiration; and the madness of lovers. Now often seen as the very epitome of rational thought and as the founder of philosophy, Socrates freely admitted to experiencing what are now called \"command hallucinations\" (then called his 'daemon'). Pythagoras also heard voices. Hippocrates (470–ca. 360 BC) classified mental disorders, including paranoia, epilepsy, mania and melancholia.\n\nThrough long contact with Greek culture, and their eventual conquest of Greece, the Romans absorbed many Greek (and other) ideas on medicine. The humoral theory fell out of favor in some quarters. The Greek physician Asclepiades (ca. 124–40 BC), who practiced in Rome, discarded it and advocated humane treatments, and had insane persons freed from confinement and treated them with natural therapy, such as diet and massages. Arateus (ca. AD 30–90) argued that it is hard to pinpoint from where a mental illness comes. However, Galen (AD 129–ca. 200), practicing in Greece and Rome, revived humoral theory. Galen, however, adopted a single symptom approach rather than broad diagnostic categories, for example studying separate states of sadness, excitement, confusion and memory loss.\n\nPlaywrights such as Homer, Sophocles and Euripides described madmen driven insane by the gods, imbalanced humors or circumstances. As well as the triad (of which mania was often used as an overarching term for insanity) there were a variable and overlapping range of terms for such things as delusion, eccentricity, frenzy, and lunacy. Physician Celsus argued that insanity is really present when a continuous dementia begins due to the mind being at the mercy of imaginings. He suggested that people must heal their own souls through philosophy and personal strength. He described common practices of dietetics, bloodletting, drugs, talking therapy, incubation in temples, exorcism, incantations and amulets, as well as restraints and \"tortures\" to restore rationality, including starvation, being terrified suddenly, agitation of the spirit, and stoning and beating. Most, however, did not receive medical treatment but stayed with family or wandered the streets, vulnerable to assault and derision. Accounts of delusions from the time included people who thought themselves to be famous actors or speakers, animals, inanimate objects, or one of the gods. Some were arrested for political reasons, such as Jesus ben Ananias who was eventually released as a madman after showing no concern for his own fate during torture.\n\nPassages of the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament have been interpreted as describing mood disorders in figures such as Job, King Saul and in the Psalms of David. In the Book of Daniel, King Nebuchadnezzar is described as temporarily losing his sanity. Mental disorder was not a problem like any other, caused by one of the gods, but rather caused by problems in the relationship between the individual and God. They believed that abnormal behavior was the result of possessions that represented the wrath and punishment from God. This punishment was seen as a withdrawal of God's protection and the abandonment of the individual to evil forces.\n\nPersian and Arabic scholars were heavily involved in translating, analyzing and synthesizing Greek texts and concepts. As the Muslim world expanded, Greek concepts were integrated with religious thought and over time, new ideas and concepts were developed. Arab texts from this period contain discussions of melancholia, mania, hallucinations, delusions, and other mental disorders. Mental disorder was generally connected to loss of reason, and writings covered links between the brain and disorders, and spiritual/mystical meaning of disorders. wrote about fear and anxiety, anger and aggression, sadness and depression, and obsessions.\n\nAuthors who wrote on mental disorders and/or proposed treatments during this period include Al-Balkhi, Al-Razi, Al-Farabi, Ibn-Sina, Al-Majusi Abu al-Qasim al-Zahrawi, Averroes, and Unhammad.\n\nSome thought mental disorder could be caused by possession by a djinn (genie), which could be either good or demon-like. There were sometimes beatings to exorcise the djin, or alternatively over-zealous attempts at cures. Islamic views often merged with local traditions. In Morocco the traditional Berber people were animists and the concept of sorcery was integral to the understanding of mental disorder; it was mixed with the Islamic concepts of djin and often treated by religious scholars combining the roles of holy man, sage, seer and sorcerer.\n\nThe first bimaristan was founded in Baghdad in the 9th century, and several others of increasing complexity were created throughout the Arab world in the following centuries. Some of the bimaristans contained wards dedicated to the care of mentally ill patients, most of whom suffered from debilitating illnesses or exhibited violence. In the centuries to come, the Muslim world would eventually serve as a critical way station of knowledge for Renaissance Europe, through the Latin translations of many scientific Islamic texts. Ibn-Sina's (Avicenna's) Canon of Medicine became the standard of medical science in Europe for centuries, together with works of Hippocrates and Galen.\n\nConceptions of madness in the Middle Ages in Europe were a mixture of the divine, diabolical, magical and transcendental. Theories of the four humors (black bile, yellow bile, phlegm, and blood) were applied, sometimes separately (a matter of \"physic\") and sometimes combined with theories of evil spirits (a matter of \"faith\"). Arnaldus de Villanova (1235–1313) combined \"evil spirit\" and Galen-oriented \"four humours\" theories and promoted trephining as a cure to let demons and excess humours escape. Other bodily remedies in general use included purges, bloodletting and whipping. Madness was often seen as a moral issue, either a punishment for sin or a test of faith and character. Christian theology endorsed various therapies, including fasting and prayer for those estranged from God and exorcism of those possessed by the devil. Thus, although mental disorder was often thought to be due to sin, other more mundane causes were also explored, including intemperate diet and alcohol, overwork, and grief. The Franciscan monk Bartholomeus Anglicus (ca. 1203 – 1272) described a condition which resembles depression in his encyclopedia, \"De Proprietatibis Rerum\", and he suggested that music would help. A semi-official tract called the Praerogativa regis distinguished between the \"natural born idiot\" and the \"lunatic\". The latter term was applied to those with periods of mental disorder; deriving from either Roman mythology describing people \"moonstruck\" by the goddess Luna or theories of an influence of the moon.\n\nEpisodes of mass dancing mania are reported from the Middle Ages, \"which gave to the individuals affected all the appearance of insanity\". This was one kind of mass delusion or mass hysteria/panic that has occurred around the world through the millennia.\n\nThe care of lunatics was primarily the responsibility of the family. In England, if the family were unable or unwilling, an assessment was made by crown representatives in consultation with a local jury and all interested parties, including the subject himself or herself. The process was confined to those with real estate or personal estate, but it encompassed poor as well as rich and took into account psychological and social issues. Most of those considered lunatics at the time probably had more support and involvement from the community than people diagnosed with mental disorders today. As in other eras, visions were generally interpreted as meaningful spiritual and visionary insights; some may have been causally related to mental disorders, but since hallucinations were culturally supported they may not have had the same connections as today.\n\nSome mentally disturbed people may have been victims of the witch-hunts that spread in waves in early modern Europe. However, those judged insane were increasingly admitted to local workhouses, poorhouses and jails (particularly the \"pauper insane\") or sometimes to the new private madhouses. Restraints and forcible confinement were used for those thought dangerously disturbed or potentially violent to themselves, others or property. The latter likely grew out of lodging arrangements for single individuals (who, in workhouses, were considered disruptive or ungovernable) then there were a few catering each for only a handful of people, then they gradually expanded (e.g. 16 in London in 1774, and 40 by 1819). By the mid-19th century there would be 100 to 500 inmates in each. The development of this network of madhouses has been linked to new capitalist social relations and a service economy, that meant families were no longer able or willing to look after disturbed relatives.\n\nMadness was commonly depicted in literary works, such as the plays of Shakespeare.\n\nBy the end of the 17th century and into the Enlightenment, madness was increasingly seen as an organic physical phenomenon, no longer involving the soul or moral responsibility. The mentally ill were typically viewed as insensitive wild animals. Harsh treatment and restraint in chains was seen as therapeutic, helping suppress the animal passions. There was sometimes a focus on the management of the environment of madhouses, from diet to exercise regimes to number of visitors. Severe somatic treatments were used, similar to those in medieval times. Madhouse owners sometimes boasted of their ability with the whip. Treatment in the few public asylums was also barbaric, often secondary to prisons. The most notorious was Bedlam where at one time spectators could pay a penny to watch the inmates as a form of entertainment.\n\nConcepts based in humoral theory gradually gave way to metaphors and terminology from mechanics and other developing physical sciences. Complex new schemes were developed for the classification of mental disorders, influenced by emerging systems for the biological classification of organisms and medical classification of diseases.\n\nThe term \"crazy\" (from Middle English meaning cracked) and insane (from Latin insanus meaning unhealthy) came to mean mental disorder in this period. The term \"lunacy\", long used to refer to periodic disturbance or epilepsy, came to be synonymous with insanity. \"Madness\", long in use in root form since at least the early centuries AD, and originally meaning crippled, hurt or foolish, came to mean loss of reason or self-restraint. \"Psychosis\", from Greek \"principle of life/animation\", had varied usage referring to a condition of the mind/soul. \"Nervous\", from an Indo-European root meaning to wind or twist, meant muscle or vigor, was adopted by physiologists to refer to the body's electrochemical signalling process (thus called the nervous system), and was then used to refer to nervous disorders and neurosis. \"Obsession\", from a Latin root meaning to sit on or sit against, originally meant to besiege or be possessed by an evil spirit, came to mean a fixed idea that could decompose the mind.\n\nWith the rise of madhouses and the professionalization and specialization of medicine, there was considerable incentive for medical doctors to become involved. In the 18th century, they began to stake a claim to a monopoly over madhouses and treatments. Madhouses could be a lucrative business, and many made a fortune from them. There were some bourgeois ex-patient reformers who opposed the often brutual regimes, blaming both the madhouse owners and the medics, who in turn resisted the reforms.\n\nTowards the end of the 18th century, a moral treatment movement developed, that implemented more humane, psychosocial and personalized approaches. Notable figures included the medic Vincenzo Chiarugi in Italy under Enlightenment leadership; the ex-patient superintendent Pussin and the psychologically inclined medic Philippe Pinel in revolutionary France; the Quakers in England, led by businessman William Tuke; and later, in the United States, campaigner Dorothea Dix.\n\nThe 19th century, in the context of industrialization and population growth, saw a massive expansion of the number and size of insane asylums in every Western country, a process called \"the great confinement\" or the \"asylum era\". Laws were introduced to compel authorities to deal with those judged insane by family members and hospital superintendents. Although originally based on the concepts and structures of moral treatment, they became large impersonal institutions overburdened with large numbers of people with a complex mix of mental and social-economic problems. The success of moral treatment had cast doubt on the approach of medics, and many had opposed it, but by the mid-19th century many became advocates of it but argued that the mad also often had physical/organic problems, so that both approaches were necessary. This argument has been described as an important step in the profession's eventual success in securing a monopoly on the treatment of lunacy. However, it is well documented that very little therapeutic activity occurred in the new asylum system, that medics were little more than administrators who seldom attended to patients, and then mainly for other physical problems.\n\nClear descriptions of some syndromes, such as the condition that would later be termed schizophrenia, have been identified as relatively rare prior to the 19th century, although interpretations of the evidence and its implications are inconsistent.\n\nNumerous different classification schemes and diagnostic terms were developed by different authorities, taking an increasingly anatomical-clinical descriptive approach. The term \"psychiatry\" was coined as the medical specialty became more academically established. Asylum superintendents, later to be psychiatrists, were generally called \"alienists\" because they were thought to deal with people alienated from society; they adopted largely isolated and managerial roles in the asylums while milder \"neurotic\" conditions were dealt with by neurologists and general physicians, although there was overlap for conditions such as neurasthenia.\n\nIn the United States it was proposed that black slaves who tried to escape were suffering from a mental disorder termed drapetomania. It was then argued in scientific journals that mental disorders were rare under conditions of slavery but became more common following emancipation, and later that mental illness in African Americans was due to evolutionary factors or various negative characteristics, and that they were not suitable for therapeutic intervention.\n\nBy the 1870s in North America, officials who ran Lunatic Asylums renamed them Insane Asylums. By the late century, the term \"asylum\" had lost its original meaning as a place of refuge, retreat or safety, and was associated with abuses that had been widely publicized in the media, including by ex-patient organization the Alleged Lunatics' Friend Society and ex-patients like Elizabeth Packard.\n\nThe relative proportion of the public officially diagnosed with mental disorders was increasing, however. This has been linked to various factors, including possibly humanitarian concern; incentives for professional status/money; a lowered tolerance of communities for unusual behavior due to the existence of asylums to place them in (this affected the poor the most); and the strain placed on families by industrialization.\n\nThe turn of the 20th century saw the development of psychoanalysis, which came to the fore later. Kraepelin's classification gained popularity, including the separation of mood disorders from what would later be termed schizophrenia.\n\nAsylum superintendents sought to improve the image and medical status of their profession. Asylum \"inmates\" were increasingly referred to as \"patients\" and asylums renamed as hospitals. Referring to people as having a \"mental illness\" dates from this period in the early 20th century.\n\nIn the United States, a \"mental hygiene\" movement, originally defined in the 19th century, gained momentum and aimed to \"prevent the disease of insanity\" through public health methods and clinics. The term mental health became more popular, however. Clinical psychology and social work developed as professions alongside psychiatry. Theories of eugenics led to compulsory sterilization movements in many countries around the world for several decades, often encompassing patients in public mental institutions. World War I saw a massive increase of conditions that came to be termed \"shell shock\".\n\nIn Nazi Germany, the institutionalized mentally ill were among the earliest targets of sterilization campaigns and covert \"euthanasia\" programs. It has been estimated that over 200,000 individuals with mental disorders of all kinds were put to death, although their mass murder has received relatively little historical attention. Despite not being formally ordered to take part, psychiatrists and psychiatric institutions were at the center of justifying, planning and carrying out the atrocities at every stage, and \"constituted the connection\" to the later annihilation of Jews and other \"undesirables\" such as homosexuals in the Holocaust.\n\nIn other areas of the world, funding was often cut for asylums, especially during periods of economic decline, and during wartime in particular many patients starved to death. Soldiers received increased psychiatric attention, and World War II saw the development in the US of a new psychiatric manual for categorizing mental disorders, which along with existing systems for collecting census and hospital statistics led to the first Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM). The International Classification of Diseases (ICD) followed suit with a section on mental disorders.\n\nPreviously restricted to the treatment of severely disturbed people in asylums, psychiatrists cultivated clients with a broader range of problems, and between 1917 and 1970 the number practicing outside institutions swelled from 8 percent to 66 percent. The term stress, having emerged from endocrinology work in the 1930s, was popularized with an increasingly broad biopsychosocial meaning, and was increasingly linked to mental disorders. \"Outpatient commitment\" laws were gradually expanded or introduced in some countries.\n\nLobotomies, Insulin shock therapy, Electro convulsive therapy, and the \"neuroleptic\" chlorpromazine came into use mid-century.\n\nAn antipsychiatry movement came to the fore in the 1960s. Deinstitutionalization gradually occurred in the West, with isolated psychiatric hospitals being closed down in favor of community mental health services. However, inadequate services and continued social exclusion often led to many being homeless or in prison. A consumer/survivor movement gained momentum.\n\nOther kinds of psychiatric medication gradually came into use, such as \"psychic energizers\" and lithium. Benzodiazepines gained widespread use in the 1970s for anxiety and depression, until dependency problems curtailed their popularity. Advances in neuroscience and genetics led to new research agendas. Cognitive behavioral therapy was developed. Through the 1990s, new SSRI antidepressants became some of the most widely prescribed drugs in the world.\n\nThe DSM and then ICD adopted new criteria-based classification, representing a return to a Kraepelin-like descriptive system. The number of \"official\" diagnoses saw a large expansion, although homosexuality was gradually downgraded and dropped in the face of human rights protests. Different regions sometimes developed alternatives such as the Chinese Classification of Mental Disorders or Latin American Guide for Psychiatric Diagnosis.\n\nDSM-IV and previous versions of the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" presented extremely high comorbidity, diagnostic heterogeneity of the categories, unclear boundaries, that have been interpreted as intrinsic anomalies of the criterial, neopositivistic approach leading the system to a state of scientific crisis. Accordingly, a radical rethinking of the concept of mental disorder and the need of a radical scientific revolution in psychiatric taxonomy was proposed.\n\nIn 2013, the American Psychiatric Association published the \"DSM–5\" after more than 10 years of research.\n\nThere is archealogical evidence for the use of trepanation in around 6500 BC.\n\nHippocrates mentions the practice of bloodletting in the fifth century BC.\n\nIn 1377, lunatics were moved from Stone House to Bethlem, one of the first psychiatric institutions.\n\nThe \"oldest forensic secure hospital in Europe\" was opened in 1850 after Sir Thomas Freemantle introduced the bill that was to establish a Central Criminal Lunatic Asylum in Ireland in May 19th 1845.\n\nIn early 20th century, lobotomy was introduced till the mid-1950s.\n\nIn 1927 insulin coma therapy was introduced and used till 1960. Physicians deliberately put the patient into a low blood sugar coma because they thought that large fluctuations in insulin levels could alter the function of the brain. Risks included prolonged coma. Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT) was later adopted as a substitution to this.\n\n"}
{"id": "47960589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47960589", "title": "J. Colin Partridge", "text": "J. Colin Partridge\n\nJohn Colin Partridge is an American pediatrician and neonatologist, and an expert on neonatal intensive care, perinatal brain imaging, international medical education and neonatal medical ethics. He is a Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics at the University of California, San Francisco and held the Academy Chair in Pediatric Education, an endowed chair at the same university, from 2007 to 2013. According to Google Scholar, his work has been cited over 4,500 times in scientific publications, and his h-index is 30.\n\nHe earned his MD at the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine in 1976 and joined the faculty of the Department of Pediatrics at the University of California, San Francisco in 1982. He has focused on newborn care in developing countries, and he has worked with newborn care in Laos, Vietnam, Cambodia, and Malaysia. In 2011 he received the \"For People’s Health\" Medal by the Vietnamese Ministry of Health \"in recognition of his great contribution to pediatric retinal surgery and resuscitation.\" He is a trustee of Newborns Vietnam.\n"}
{"id": "343177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=343177", "title": "James Rolph", "text": "James Rolph\n\nJames \"Sunny Jim\" Rolph Jr. (August 23, 1869 – June 2, 1934) was an American politician and a member of the Republican Party. He was elected to a single term as the 27th governor of California from January 6, 1931 until his death on June 2, 1934 at the height of the Great Depression. Previously, Rolph had been the 30th mayor of San Francisco from January 8, 1912 until his resignation to become governor. Rolph remains the longest serving mayor in San Francisco history.\n\nRolph was born in San Francisco. He had four brothers and two sisters. After attending school in the Mission District, he went to work as an office boy in a commission house. He married Annie Marshall Reid (1872–1956) and had at least one son: James Rolph, III (1904-1980).\n\nRolph entered the shipping business in 1900, by forming a partnership with George Hind. He would over the next decade serve as president of two banks, one of which he helped establish. Although he was asked to run for mayor in 1909, he chose to wait until 1911 to run for mayor—a position that he would hold for nineteen years. As mayor, he was known as \"Sunny Jim\" and his theme song was \"There Are Smiles That Make You Happy\". In 1915 he appeared as himself in an early documentary film titled \"Mabel and Fatty Viewing the World's Fair at San Francisco\", which was directed by and starred Fatty Arbuckle. In 1924, Rolph appeared as himself in a Slim Summerville comedy short film, \"Hello, Frisco.\"\n\nRolph knew of the power in San Francisco of the Roman Catholic Church. Italians, Irish, French and Germans made up the majority of the population of the City. He established a deep friendship with Archbishop Edward Joseph Hanna. In turn, Hanna would support Rolph in his 1930 election as governor of California.\n\nIn addition to his mayoral duties and overseeing his shipping interests, he directed the Ship Owners and Merchants Tugboat Company and the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce. He also was vice-president of the Panama-Pacific International Exposition and president of the Merchants' Exchange. He resigned in 1931 to assume the office of governor of California.\n\nRolph received considerable criticism for publicly praising the citizens of San Jose following the November 1933 lynching of the confessed kidnapper-murderers of Brooke Hart, a local department store heir, while promising to pardon anyone involved, thereby earning the nickname, \"Governor Lynch.\" Four days before the lynching he had announced he would not call on the National Guard to prevent the lynching, which was already being discussed locally.\n\nAfter violence erupted during the San Joaquin cotton strike in October 1933, Governor Rolph appointed a fact-finding committee to investigate the deaths of several strikers. When the committee met in Visalia on October 19, 1933, Caroline Decker, a labor activist who had taken part in other California agricultural actions, took testimony from the strikers who testified about the growers' assaults on striking workers.\n\nAfter suffering several heart attacks, he died in Santa Clara County on June 2, 1934, aged 64, three years into his term. Rolph was the second governor to die in office, the first being Washington Bartlett in 1887. He is buried at Greenlawn Memorial Park in Colma, California. He was succeeded by Lieutenant Governor Frank Merriam in the Governor's Office.\n\nOne of the unofficial names of the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge is the James \"Sunny Jim\" Rolph Bridge.\n\n"}
{"id": "23962308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23962308", "title": "Joe G. N. Garcia", "text": "Joe G. N. Garcia\n\nJoe G. N. \"Skip\" Garcia (born 1954) is an American pulmonary scientist, physician and academic leader. His research is on the genetic basis of lung disease and the prevention and treatment of inflammatory lung injury.\n\nGarcia was born in 1954 in El Paso, Texas and completed his B.S. in Biology at the University of Dallas in 1976, where he is noted as one of their notable people. He received his M.D. from the University of Texas Southwestern Medical School in 1980. He completed internship and residency training in Internal Medicine at the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics (1980–1983) and fellowship training in Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine at Albany Medical College (1983–1985).\n\nGarcia began his academic career as an Assistant Professor of Medicine at the University of Texas Health Center at Tyler (1985–1988) where he established the first Occupational Lung Center. He was subsequently recruited as an Associate Professor to Indiana University School of Medicine (1988–1998) where (in 1992) he became the youngest endowed full Professor in Indiana University School of Medicine history as the Dr. Calvin H. English Professor of Medicine. He was locally recognized as a staunch advocate for institutional diversity and for his volunteer work and community service with Indiana's Hispanic migrant farm workers. For these efforts, Garcia received the State of Indiana's Otis Bowen Community Service award (1994) and the Physician Community Service Award (1994) from the Indiana State Medical Association.\n\nIn 1998, Garcia was recruited to Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine serving in several major academic leadership positions including the Dr. David Marine Professor of Medicine, Environmental Health Sciences and Biomedical Engineering, and the Director of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine (1998–2005). During his tenure at Division Director (1998 - 2005), Garcia doubled the number of faculty and grants with considerable diversity, including the expansion of PhDs, women and under-represented minorities. He initiated significant growth and expansion in lung transplantation, pulmonary hypertension, adult cystic fibrosis, health care outcomes, vascular biology, asthma and COPD research. Dr. Garcia was awarded the Levine Excellence in Mentoring Award in 2005. He is also responsible for research growth in the Division level of $2 million/year in NIH funding in 1998 and over $30 million/year and a top national ranking among US academic pulmonary and critical care divisions.\n\nIn May 2005 Garcia joined The University of Chicago as the Lowell T. Coggeshall Professor of Medicine and Chairman of the Department of Medicine. During his tenure as chair (2005 - 2009) Garcia led the strategic growth of the University of Chicago's largest department. Under his leadership, research funding exceeded $80 million annually with the Department's national ranking for federal research rising from #25 to #10 (2005 - 2009). While chair, Garcia directed several initiatives improving the gender, racial and ethnic diversity of the Department's faculty and residency fellowship training programs. h With a dedicated focus on junior faculty development and the physician-scientist career pathway, under Garcia's leadership, the department of Medicine experienced a 200% increase in the number of individually awarded NIH career awards (K-Series). Based on the success of these initiatives, in 2006, Garcia was awarded the Diversity Award from the Bowman Society and the Association of Professors of Medicine. Anticipating the push to precision medicine, Garcia established the Section of Genetic Medicine and recruited Nancy Cox, PhD and the first section chief and launched the Translational Research Initiative in the Department of Medicine (TRIDOM)., a large-scale sample collection effort enabling investigators to link clinical information on health and disease status to biological samples.\n\nIn February 2010, he was named the Vice Chancellor for Research and Earl M Bane Professor of Medicine at the University of Illinois at Chicago overseeing an almost $400 million research portfolio (70% biomedical research). He launched a broad strategic plan that drove the creation of new institutes and centers focused on precision medicine, health disparities and bioinformatics. In February 2011 Garcia was named the first University of Illinois-Vice President for Health Affairs. Reporting only to the President of the University of Illinois, he oversaw a $1.5 billion enterprise in total annual clinical operating revenues and expenses. He successfully implementd a complete rebranding to form the University of Illinois Hospital and Health Science System, and integrated system that included a University hospital, a VA hospital, over 60 outpatient care clinics, 12 federally, qualified health centers, 7 health science colleges and 4 regional campuses. Under his leadership, new health care clinics were opened in Englewood and Brighton Park. He served as the founding Director for the Institute for Personalized Respiratory Medicine which again has a large focus on health disparities.\n\nIn December 2010 he founded Aqualung Therapeutics, designed to develop new therapies for the critically ill.\n\nIn 2011 he was elected to the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies. (Now known as the National Academy for Medicine)\n\nIn 2013, Garcia was recruited to the University of Arizona as the Senior Vice President for Health Sciences and Merlin K. DuVal Endowed Professor of Medicine. Garcia led the strategic integration of undergraduate and graduate education research, service and clinical activities among the UA Health colleges, centers and clinical affiliations. Over the 3.5 year time frame, her served as the Interim Dean, College of Medicine - Tucson (2014 - 2015) and recruited 3 UA Health Science Deans, 10 key department chair positions, 10 new associate vice president and center directors and 12 UA division directors as well as number of key scientific leaders in cutting edge research. He recruited Andrew S. Kraft, M.D. to direct the UA NCI-designated Comprehensive Cancer Center and successfully led the renewal of UA's NCI Comprehensive Cancer Center grant (July 2016) Garcia led the re-branding of the Arizona Health Science Center to become the University of Arizona Health Sciences (UAHS) with and integration of UAHS critical services and improvements in cost efficiency.\n\nAcademic initiatives included establishment of 4 UAHS thematic centers of excellence in health disparities, population health and health outcomes, precision medicine and neuroscience. The creation of these new centers resulted in increases in NIH funding and the award of a $43.3 million NIH precision medicine initiative cohort program award. \nGarcia initiated efforts to increase diversity within the five health science colleges creating the Office of Diversity and Inclusion, and fostering such programs as PRIDE, BLAISER and FRONTERA which focus on creating a diverse health-care workforce.\n\nGarcia was the lead member of the UA Health Science (UAHS) negotiation team, helping to facilitate the merger between the University of Arizona Health Network and Phoenix-based Banner Health System. This included creating a $300 million academic endowment to be used at the UA discretion to support research and other academic pursuits, $150 million to clear UAHN debt and $500 million in capital improvements over five years.\n\nIn January 2017, Garcia changed his focus to continuing his innovative clinical and translational research and to serve as Founder and CEO of Aqualung Therapeutics and Restore Therapeutics, companies focused on the high mortality rate in clinical illnesses.\n\nGarcia has been continuously funded by the NIH since 1988 (principal investigator of multiple program project grants, R01s, etc.). He has authored or co-authored more than 500 peer-reviewed publications and over 40 book chapters. He is a past president of the Central Society for Clinical Research, a past member of the board of directors for the American Thoracic Society and past member or chairman of several NIH panels, committees and working groups including the NHLBI Advisory Council. He served as editor or associate editor for multiple journals. For example,\"Microvascular Research\", \"Endothelium: Circulation Research, Physiologic Genomics, American Journal of Cellular and Molecular BiologyPulmonary Circulation\". He has been elected into a number of honorific societies including the American Clinical and Climatological Association (Vice President), American Society for Clinical Investigation, and the Association of Academic Professors and the National Academy of Medicine.\n\nHe has received over 25 citations and awards. Over 500 peer-reviewed publications, 40,000 citations, h-index of 101 and i10-index of 581.\n\n\nLink to 2017 CV\n"}
{"id": "39107572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39107572", "title": "John Rattray (surgeon)", "text": "John Rattray (surgeon)\n\nJohn Rattray (22 September 1707 – 5 July 1771) was an Edinburgh surgeon who served as surgeon to Prince Charles Edward Stuart during the Jacobite rising of 1745. He was a proficient archer, winning the Edinburgh Arrow on two occasions, however it is for his golfing achievements that he is principally remembered. A skilful golfer, Rattray won the first competition organised by the Company of Gentleman Golfers (later the Honourable Company of Edinburgh Golfers) to become the 'Captain of Goff' for a year. In this capacity he signed the first ever Rules of Golf.\n\nJohn Rattray was born on 22 September 1707 in Craighall Castle, the family seat of Clan Rattray, near the village of Blairgowrie and Rattray in Perthshire, Scotland. His father the Rt Rev Thomas Rattray (1684–1743) was an Episcopalian priest who became the Bishop of Dunkeld, then of Brechin and was elected Primus of the Scottish Episcopal Church. On his death in 1743 his elder son James became clan chief and inherited the estate. As the second son John Rattray had no such inheritance and he trained as a surgeon in Edinburgh by apprenticeship to the surgeon John Semple between 1728 and 1735, when he began surgical practice in Edinburgh. To enhance his professional status he applied to become a freeman (or fellow) of the Incorporation of Surgeons of Edinburgh (later the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh). This involved sitting a series of four examinations which were held in the later months of 1740, and, having passed these, he was admitted a freeman of the Incorporation in November 1740.\n\nRattray joined the Royal Company of Archers in 1731 and won the archery competition for the silver punch bowl on 4 occasions (1732, 1735, 1740, and 1742). The Company's most prestigious prize, the Edinburgh Arrow or Silver Arrow was presented to the Company by Edinburgh Town Council in 1709 as a prize for an annual archery competition. Rattray won this twice, in 1735 and 1744. He was also a skilled golfer and his prowess at golf is recorded in this extract from the mock heroic poem 'The Goff' by Rev. Thomas Mathison (1720–1760) published in 1743, the first poem devoted to the sport of golf.\n\nThe ‘fam’d field’ referred to is Leith Links, an area of links grassland in the burgh of Leith where the self-styled 'Company of Gentleman Golfers' began to golf regularly. The 'great Forbes' mentioned is Duncan Forbes of Culloden (1685–1747), Lord President of the Court of Session, Scotland's most senior law officer and one of Rattray's regular golfing companions. Their friendship was to save Rattray's life.\n\nThe Gentleman Golfers had approached the Edinburgh Town Council asking them to donate a silver club to be played for in an annual golf competition over Leith Links, in much the same way as the Council provided the silver arrow for archery competitions. The Town Council approved this request on 7 March 1744 and published the 'Regulations' for the competition. These were to do with the administration of the competition indicating that the draw should be made from a bonnet, that it should be open to any golfer from Great Britain & Ireland and that clerks should mark down each stroke. In their document the Council note that the golfers have already drawn up the 'Articles and Laws in playing at golf', and these, the original rules of golf, were used for this competition. The competition was played over five holes at Leith Links: Sawmill (), North-mid (), East (), South-mid () and Thorntree (). It is likely that they played three rounds of this course. On 2 April 1744 Rattray won the first competition held over this course, winning the silver club and earning the title ‘Captain of the Goff’. It is Rattray’s signature that appears below the 13 original rules of golf recorded in the minute book of the Honourable Company of Edinburgh Golfers. It is not clear whether he signed this in his capacity as captain of the golf or as the author of the rules. As was customary for entries in the minutes, he has written 'Cptn' after his signature, which some commentators have interpreted as indicating that he simply signed the minute as captain, the rules having been a joint effort of the golfers, who included some of the best legal brains in Scotland. The rules signed by Rattray lay undisturbed in the minute book of the Honourable Company for some 200 years until discovered there by the golf historian CB Clapcott in 1937. The rules are now in the collection of the National Library of Scotland. The St Andrews golfers, adopted them with minor modifications in 1754 and they still form the basis of many of the modern laws of the game. These original rules of golf comprised 12 general rules and one local rule applicable to the Leith course.\n\nOn 19 August 1745 Prince Charles Edward Stuart raised his standard at Glenfinnan marking the start of his attempt to claim the British throne. To gather support he asked clans and families, likely to be sympathetic, to join his cause. As prominent Episcopalians the Rattrays were likely supporters, but James Rattray, by then the clan chief, opted to donate £50 rather than join the standard. John Rattray joined the Jacobite army just after their victory at the Battle of Prestonpans on 21 September, when the call went out to Edinburgh surgeons to care for the wounded. Amongst those who responded to the call were Alexander Monro (a staunch Hanoverian) and Alexander (\"Lang Sandy\") Wood. Rattray rode the five miles from his house at South Foulis Close near the foot of Edinburgh's High Street with his colleague John Lauder, Deacon (president) of the Incorporation of Surgeons. Lauder later claimed that they had treated some 300 wounded and accommodated many of these at their own expense, but as this claim was made as part of a plea for his life, it may well have been exaggerated. Rattray stayed with the Jacobite army as it advanced into England then retreated from Derby, eventually becoming Surgeon-general and personal surgeon to Prince Charles. After the battle of Culloden, Rattray surrendered to the Hanoverians and was imprisoned in Inverness, but he and Lauder were not allowed to treat the wounded among their fellow prisoners.\n\nRobert Forbes, bishop of Ross and Caithness, in his detailed contemporary account of events of the '45 rising \"The Lyon in Mourning\" describes how Rattray was taunted by a Hanoverian officer \"We know well what you are sir, the Pretender’s surgeon. If anyone hangs you shall.\" Rattray's golfing companion Duncan Forbes, Lord Culloden a staunch Hanoverian, made a personal plea of intercession on behalf of Rattray to the Duke of Cumberland, which was successful, as was a subsequent plea for Lauder. They were freed but Cumberland ordered that they be rearrested in Edinburgh and they were held in London until January 1747 when they were finally released having signed an oath of obedience to the King.\n\nRattray returned to surgical practice in Edinburgh and to golf. In 1751 he again won the golf competition for the silver club and continued to practice as a surgeon until at least 1766. He died in Edinburgh on 5 July 1771.\n\nIn 2013 the Leith Rules Golf Society obtained planning permission to erect a statue of John Rattray on Leith Links and commissioned the sculptor David Annand for the project. The life size bronze statue will sit on a landscaped setting on the 1 hole of the original Golf Course on Leith Links to celebrate Rattray’s contribution to golf.\n"}
{"id": "3873261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3873261", "title": "Lake Iruka", "text": "Lake Iruka\n\nIt is reportedly the second largest reservoir in Japan.\n\nIn 1868 the dam holding the reservoir collapsed after heavy rain. In the resulting flood, 941 people lost their lives.\n"}
{"id": "23828717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23828717", "title": "List of countries by total health expenditure per capita", "text": "List of countries by total health expenditure per capita\n\nThis article includes 3 lists of countries of the world and their total expenditure on health per capita. Total expenditure includes both public and private expenditures.\n\nThe first table and bar chart lists member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). With each country's total expenditure on health per capita in PPP U.S. dollars.\n\nThe next 2 tables use data from the World Health Organization (WHO). One table uses U.S. dollars per capita. The other table uses 2011 PPP international US dollars (inflation-adjusted to 2011 dollars).\n\nThe chart to the right measures the total cost of health care (public and private expenditures) as a percent of GDP (gross domestic product) for a few nations. GDP is a measure of the total economy of a nation.\n\nTotal health expenditure per capita in PPP international U.S. dollars (not inflation-adjusted).\n\nTotal health expenditure per capita in US dollars (PPP). This chart breaks it down further by public and private expenditures.\n\n2 country lists from World Health Organization's Global Health Expenditure Database.\n\nTotal health expenditure per capita in U.S. dollars. Not inflation adjusted.\n\nTotal health expenditure per capita in 2011 PPP international U.S. dollars (inflation-adjusted to 2011 dollars).\n\n"}
{"id": "236344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236344", "title": "List of diseases (I)", "text": "List of diseases (I)\n\nThis is a list of diseases starting with the letter \"I\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14789346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14789346", "title": "Lourdes Health System", "text": "Lourdes Health System\n\nThe Lourdes Health System consists of two hospitals, Our Lady of Lourdes Medical Center in Camden, New Jersey and Lourdes Medical Center of Burlington County in Willingboro, New Jersey. Administrative offices are located at its Camden facility. The Franciscan Sisters of Allegany, New York founded the health system in 1950 and is a member of Trinity Health.\n\nOur Lady of Lourdes Medical Center, a 410-bed teaching hospital which opened on July 1, 1950, is located at 1600 Haddon Avenue, in Camden.\n\nLocated at 218 A Sunset Road in Willingboro, Lourdes Medical Center of Burlington County is a 249-bed community hospital.\n\nFounded in 1979, the Lourdes Wellness Center combines mainstream medicine, alternative therapies and spirituality to promote healthy lifestyles. The center, which averages more than 30,000 visits a year, offers acupuncture, massage, yoga, health-education programs and community-based services.\n\nIn addition, the center is home to an integrative family medicine practice and the Lourdes Institute of Wholistic Studies, which offers an Associate degree in Massage Therapy and certificate programs in massage therapy, reflexology and yoga teacher training. The center has facilities in Collingswood.\n\nSince opening in 1961, Our Lady of Lourdes School of Nursing has graduated more than 1,200 nurses. Located in Our Lady of Lourdes Medical Center’s new critical care tower, it is the only Catholic-oriented nursing school in southern New Jersey.\nStudents have the opportunity to simultaneously earn a Diploma in Nursing and an Associate’s Degree in science from Camden County College. Graduates are eligible to apply for the New Jersey State Board of Nursing examinations for registered nurse licensure and to enter into baccalaureate nursing programs with transfer credit.\n\nThe school is accredited by the New Jersey Board of Nursing and the National League for Nursing.\n\nAs a faith-based institution, Lourdes Health System devotes many resources to assisting the less fortunate. The outreach programs provided by Lourdes Health System have won numerous recognitions, including the 1995 Foster G. McGaw Prize from the American Hospital Association. Our Lady of Lourdes Medical Center was the first Catholic hospital in the nation to win this award for excellence in community service. Those outreach programs include:\n\n\nThe Franciscan Sisters of Allegany, New York, trace their beginnings to April 25, 1859, when, in the chapel of St. Bonaventure College and Seminary, Father Pamfilo da Magliano, O.S.F., gave the habit of the Third Order of St. Francis and the name, Sister Mary Joseph, to Mary Jane Todd. Father Pamfilo, the custos-Provincial of the Friars Minor of the Immaculate Conception Custody, had come with three other friars to western New York in 1855 at the invitation of Bishop John Timon, C.M., of the Diocese of Buffalo and Nicholas Devereux, a Catholic layman and land owner. The friars had come to educate young men at St. Bonaventure and carry on pastoral work in the area. Bishop Timon had also asked Father Pamfilo to “seek for Sisters of the Third Order” to provide education for the young women of the area, and his search led him to form a new congregation in Allegany, New York.\nAfter the reception of Sister Mary Joseph, Ellen Fallon was received on June 24, 1859, and took the name Sister Mary Bridget. Several months later, these two sisters were joined by Mary Anne O'Neil, a 15-year-old girl from New Jersey who had been exhorted by Father Pamfilo, “to be generous with the Lord despite her young years.” Mary Anne was received on Dec. 8, 1859, and took the name Sister Mary Teresa.\nThese three women formed the nucleus of the new community which soon began to attract other young women from the surrounding areas. From the beginning of the congregation, the sisters were under the jurisdiction of Father Pamfilo. He appointed the officers of the new community until 1865, when he presented the sisters with their first statutes, which had been adapted from those of the Franciscan Sisters in Glasgow, Scotland. That same year, the sisters elected Sister Mary Teresa O'Neil as their general superior, who served in this capacity for 55 years.\n\nThe new community grew, and the sisters sought to serve the needs of the church in a variety of ministries. In 1860, St. Elizabeth Academy opened in Allegany for the education of young women, and from this beginning the sisters branched out to open schools in Connecticut, New York and other East Coast states. In 1879, three sisters were sent to Jamaica and British West Indies, and the Franciscan Sisters of Allegany became the first American-founded congregation of religious women to send sisters to foreign missions.\nIn the 1880s and 1890s, the sisters became affiliated with hospitals in Boston and New York City. They also expanded to homes for the young and elderly, pastoral and social work. Many of these ministries, including health care, continue today.\n\nSouthern New Jersey experienced a rapid growth in population immediately preceding and during World War II. Many of the new residents were Catholic, and their fast influx demanded the formation of new parishes and facilities. In the early 1940s, Bishop Bartholomew J. Eustace invited the Franciscan Sisters of Allegany to build a hospital in the Diocese of Camden. Bishop Eustace knew of the Sisters when they cared for his mother during her final years at their hospital, St. Elizabeth’s, in New York City.\nIn December 1945, the Dominican Sisters of the Perpetual Rosary agreed to sell a portion of their property at Haddon Avenue and Euclid Street in Camden to the Third Order Regular of St. Francis of Allegany, New York for the construction of a hospital. Construction began in September 1947, with Bishop Eustace laying the cornerstone a year later.\nOn March 15, 1950, 2½ years after ground was broken for Our Lady of Lourdes Medical Center, construction was completed on the 300-bed hospital. On May 28, Bishop Eustace presided at a dedication ceremony attended by 3,000, including several hundred priests, physicians and civic leaders. The inscription above the main entrance, “The Body Is Often Curable — The Soul Is Ever So,” spoke to the new hospital’s commitment to Franciscan values.\n\nThe Diocese raised $1 million, or one-quarter the cost of the new hospital. The Franciscan Sisters assumed a debt of more than $3 million. The Rev. Mother Jean Marie Greeley appointed Mother Mary Paracleta the first hospital administrator. She served in that post until 1969, and was a driving force behind Lourdes’ initial growth.\nCamden was a thriving city when Our Lady of Lourdes Medical Center was planned and built. However, in the 1960s, Camden fell prey to an urban manufacturing decline and an exodus of middle-class residents to the suburbs.\nThe Franciscan Sisters realized there was a need to develop top-quality specialty services that would draw patients from throughout southern New Jersey. These services would support the hospital’s mission of staying in Camden and providing quality care to its residents while also serving the growing suburban population. The hospital developed several regional services to sustain the organization, including cardiology, high-risk maternity, physical rehabilitation, dialysis and organ transplantation.\n\nThe facility itself has been expanded and improved many times to meet the needs of the community.\n\nPlanning for the addition of a School of Nursing began in 1956. Groundbreaking for the school occurred in 1959 on the medical center’s campus, and the first class of nurses was accepted in 1961. “We may sometimes wonder why the sisters embark on such great projects,” Camden Bishop Justin J. McCarthy said during the school’s groundbreaking ceremony. “They always want to do great work for God. I’m sure the nurses trained here will obtain a true sense of the spirit of Christian charity. Let us not forget that the nurses are the right hand of the doctors.”\n\nFrom 1970-71, the hospital underwent the first of several renovations, a $2 million project for intensive care, cardiac care and surgical recovery areas. In 1976, the medical center completed a $6.9 million construction project. The four-story addition housed a new 50-bed rehabilitation center, as well as expanded outpatient and emergency departments. In 1988, the medical center completed a three-year, $42 million renovation and expansion that included two new patient floors; a spacious solarium; new pediatrics, inpatient dialysis and mental health units; a women’s services floor; a new cardiac services floor; larger and modernized patient rooms throughout the medical center; new radiology and laboratory equipment; and new nursing stations.\n\nTwo years later, Angel’s Alley, one of the region’s first hospital-based child-care centers, opened. Angel’s Alley not only cares for the children of employees, but also those from the neighborhood, allowing their parents the opportunity to find productive, economically beneficial jobs.\n\nIn 1999, the Sister M. Elizabeth Corry Ambulatory Care Center opened across Haddon Avenue from the hospital. The building, named for the medical center’s long-time president, houses the Osborn Family Health Center, outpatient dialysis and organ transplant facilities.\nIn 2005, Lourdes opened a $60-million expansion that features a new emergency department, operating suites, patient rooms, laboratories and School of Nursing. Also in 2005, Lourdes, now with 410 beds, became the first hospital in the Delaware Valley to acquire a 64-slice CT scanner.\n\nFor more than four decades, residents of Burlington County have relied on Lourdes Medical Center of Burlington County for their inpatient and outpatient health care.\nThe hospital was founded by a group of 11 physicians, led by Meyer Abrams, M.D., who felt the need to develop a hospital in the growing Burlington County community of Willingboro. The original Rancocas Valley Hospital opened in August 1961 and had 100 beds, operating suites, a maternity ward and emergency room. Eventually, the physicians’ group sold their interest in the hospital, all the while remaining as active members of the medical staff.\nOver the years, the hospital underwent several changes in ownership and leadership.\nWillingboro was at risk of losing the hospital when its owner, the Allegheny Health, Education and Research Foundation declared bankruptcy in the late 1990s. Lourdes purchased the hospital in 1998 for $45 million.\nImmediately after purchasing the facility, Lourdes invested $20 million in a new critical care building. The expansion, which includes six state-of-the-art operating suites, a same-day surgery center, a 12-bed recovery unit and an expanded 20-bed critical-care unit opened in May 2001. In December 2002, the hospital was renamed Lourdes Medical Center of Burlington County and became a Catholic hospital following a dedication and blessing by the Most Rev. John Smith, Bishop of the Diocese of Trenton.\nIn 2003, the medical center opened a new $1.5 million cardiac catheterization laboratory and a new magnetic resonance imaging center, expanding the hospital’s diagnostic capabilities. In 2005, in conjunction with AcuityHealthcare of Charlotte, N.C., the facility opened Lourdes Specialty Hospital of Southern New Jersey, the region’s first unit for long-term acute-care patients.\n\nThe hospital has developed one of the region’s leading cancer programs with a range of diagnostic and treatment services, in addition to a variety of community outreach and support initiatives. Those include a patient navigator program; opening a caring boutique to assist cancer patients from throughout Burlington County with their aesthetic, physical and emotional needs; developing a resource center; and expanding community lectures and support options.\n\nIn 1998, Lourdes merged with Catholic Health East (CHE), a multi-institutional Catholic health system co-sponsored by 10 religious congregations and Hope Ministries, a public juridic person within CHE. Based in Newtown Square, P.A., the system provides the means to ensure the continuation of the Catholic identity and operational strength of the sponsors’ health ministries, which are located in 11 eastern states from Maine to Florida.\nCHE includes 33 acute care hospitals, four long term acute care hospitals, 36 freestanding and hospital-based long term care facilities, 12 assisted living facilities, five continuing care retirement communities, seven behavioral health and rehabilitation facilities, 25 home health/hospice agencies, and numerous ambulatory and community-based health services. Catholic Health East facilities employ approximately 50,000 full-time employees.\n"}
{"id": "44096282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44096282", "title": "Maddox rod", "text": "Maddox rod\n\nThe Maddox rod test can be used to subjectively detect and measure a latent, manifest, horizontal or vertical strabismus for near and distance. The test is based on the principle of diplopic projection. Dissociation of the deviation is brought about by presenting a red line image to one eye and a white light to the other, while prisms are used to superimpose these and effectively measure the angle of deviation (horizontal and vertical). The strength of the prism is increased until the streak of the light passes through the centre of the prism, as the strength of the prism indicates the amount of deviation present. The Maddox rod is a handheld instrument composed of red parallel plano convex cylinder lens, which refracts light rays so that a point source of light is seen as a line or streak of light. Due to the optical properties, the streak of light is seen perpendicular to the axis of the cylinder.\n\n\nThe Maddox rod test should be used in cases of:\n\nThe method of assessing near and distance fixation is similar.\n\nMethod for measuring horizontal deviations: \n\nMethod for measuring vertical deviations:\n\n1. The patient is held for granted to hold the Maddox Rod in front of their right with the cylinders vertical, making the red line horizontal.\n2. The patient is then asked whether the white light is superimposed on the red line or if it appears above or below the red line. \n\nExamples of recordings are shown below:\n\nMR: sc (F) L/R 5∆ eso 8∆ (FR)\n\nMR: sc (F) L/5∆ eso 8∆ (FR)\n\nMR: sc (F) 5∆ BD 8∆BO (FR)\n\nsc: without correction \n- F: far \n- N: near \n- FR: fixing right\n- FL: fixing left \n- BD: base down prisms\n- BU: base up prisms\n- BO: base out prisms\n- BI: base in prisms\n- eso: esotropia\n- exo: exotropias\n- L/R: left hypertropia or right hypotropia\n- R/L: right hypertropia or left hypotropia\n\nThe double Maddox rod test can also be used to assess torsion and measure cyclotropias.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21551567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21551567", "title": "Medical Orders for Life-Sustaining Treatment", "text": "Medical Orders for Life-Sustaining Treatment\n\nMOLST is an acronym for Medical Orders for Life-Sustaining Treatment. The MOLST Program is an initiative to facilitate end-of-life medical decision-making in New York State, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Ohio and Maryland, that involves use of the MOLST form. Most other U.S. states have similar initiatives, such as Physician Orders for Life-Sustaining Treatment. In New York state, the MOLST form is a New York State Department of Health form (DOH-5003). MOLST is for patients such as a terminally ill patient, whether or not treatment is provided. For this example, assume the patient retains medical decision-making capacity and wants to die naturally in a residential setting, not in the intensive-care unit of a hospital on a ventilator with a feeding tube. Using MOLST, with the informed consent of the patient, the patient's doctor could issue medical orders for life-sustaining treatment, including any or all of the following medical orders: provide comfort measures (palliative care) only; do not attempt resuscitation (allow natural death); do not intubate; do not hospitalize; no feeding tube; no IV fluids; do not use antibiotics; no dialysis; no transfusions. The orders should be honored by all health care providers in any setting, including emergency responders who are summoned by a 9-1-1 telephone call after the patient loses medical decision-making capacity.\n\nThe MOLST Program is a New York State initiative that facilitates end-of-life medical decision-making. One goal of the MOLST Program is to ensure that decisions to withhold or withdraw life-sustaining treatment are made in accordance with the patient's wishes, or, if the patient's wishes are not reasonably known and cannot with reasonable diligence be ascertained, in accordance with the patient's best interests.\n\nPatricia \"Pat\" Bomba, MD, has spearheaded the MOLST Program since its inception. Dr. Bomba is a Vice President at Excellus BlueCross BlueShield.\n\nInformation about the MOLST Program can be found on the website that Dr. Bomba runs called www.compassionandsupport.org.\n\nUnder New York common law, health care providers may withhold or withdraw life-sustaining treatment from a patient who is dying and currently lacks the capacity to make his or her own medical decisions if doing so is based upon clear and convincing evidence of the patient's wishes.\n\nSince 1987, New York has had a Do Not Resuscitate (DNR) law allowing surrogates to make decisions regarding cardiopulmonary resuscitation on behalf of an adult patient who lacks medical decision-making capacity. In 1991, the law was amended to authorize non-hospital orders not to resuscitate. Based upon this law, the New York State Department of Health created a \"standard form\" to issue a non-hospital order not to resuscitate (DOH-3474), which is still in use today.\n\nIn 2005, the law was amended to give the New York State Department of Health authority to issue \"alternative forms\" for issuing non-hospital orders not to resuscitate in Monroe and Onondaga Counties. This established MOLST as a pilot program. In 2006, the law was amended to allow such \"alternative forms\" to be used to issue non-hospital Do Not Intubate (DNI) orders. This was necessary because in New York State, emergency medical services personnel may only honor a DNR order in the event of a cardiac or respiratory arrest and would still intubate a patient with a DNR order unless the patient's heart or breathing has completely stopped.\n\nIn 2008, MOLST ceased to be a pilot program when the law was amended to authorize use of the MOLST form as a non-hospital DNR and DNI order statewide. In 2010, along with passage of the Family Health Care Decisions Act, the legal authority for MOLST was moved from N.Y. Public Health Law Article 29-B to a new N.Y. Public Health Law Article 29-CCC.\n\nUnder current law, the MOLST form can be used to issue a non-hospital DNR and DNI order in New York State, and those orders must be honored by emergency medical services personnel, home care services personnel, hospice personnel and hospital emergency services personnel. Physicians may also use the form for any patient in any setting to issue any orders for life-sustaining treatment.\n\nCoverage for an initial preventive physical examination under Medicare Part B includes verbal or written information regarding a patient's ability to prepare a MOLST form and the physician's willingness to issue orders on a MOLST form.\n\nNew York Public Health Law section 2997-c requires the \"attending health care practitioner\" to offer to provide patients with a terminal illness with information and counseling regarding palliative care and end-of-life options appropriate to the patient.\n"}
{"id": "31828038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31828038", "title": "Mind projection fallacy", "text": "Mind projection fallacy\n\nThe mind projection fallacy is an informal fallacy first described by physicist and Bayesian philosopher E.T. Jaynes. It occurs when someone thinks that the way they see the world reflects the way the world really is, going as far as assuming the real existence of imagined objects. That is, someone's subjective judgments are \"projected\" to be inherent properties of an object, rather than being related to personal perception. One consequence is that others may be assumed to share the same perception, or that they are irrational or misinformed if they do not.\n\nA second form of the fallacy, as described by Jaynes, is when someone assumes that their own lack of knowledge about a phenomenon (which is a fact about their state of mind) means that the phenomenon is not or cannot be understood (a fact about reality). (See also Map and territory.)\n\nJaynes used this concept to argue against Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics. He described the fallacy as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "16454759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16454759", "title": "National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health", "text": "National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health\n\nNational Institute For Research in Reproductive Health (NIRRH), is a Research institute of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It was previously known as the Institute of Research in Reproduction. It was established in 1970, by the joining two ICMR units, the Reproductive Physiology Unit and the Contraceptive Testing Unit.\n\nIt is affiliated to the University of Mumbai for M.Sc. and Ph.D. programmes in Biochemistry, Applied Biology and Life Sciences.\n"}
{"id": "32690820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32690820", "title": "National Latino AIDS Awareness Day", "text": "National Latino AIDS Awareness Day\n\nNational Latino AIDS Awareness Day (NLAAD) (Spanish : \"El Dia Nacional de Concientizacion Latina del SIDA\") takes place in the United States of America and its territories on October 15, the last day of National Hispanic Heritage Month, and aims to increase awareness of human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) in the Hispanic/Latino population living in the United States including Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands. It is a national community mobilizing and social marketing campaign co-ordinated by the Latino Commission on AIDS and the Hispanic Federation in partnership with commercial sponsors, community and public health organisations.\n\nA National Planning Committee coordinates NLAAD, retains a national convenor and supplies participating organisations with materials such as campaign kits and with advice. Each local participating organisation organises its own activities tailored to their particular community. All aim to promote or sponsor prevention activities, including counselling and testing. Some also undertake to educate community leaders and public officials in reducing new infections and caring for Latinos living with HIV/AIDS. Some organise cultural events and celebrations. Each local group is largely responsible for raising funds for their organized activities.\n\nThe first NLAAD was in 2003, initiated by the Latino Commission on AIDS under the leadership of Dennis deLeon joined by the Hispanic Federation and attracted support from various community groups. In a media release announcing the event, deLeon was quoted: \"AIDS has disproportionately affected Latinos whom represent 14% of the United States population (including Puerto Rico), but as a percentage of the national number of People Living with AIDS, Latinos represent a staggering 20%. ... There is no reason why Latinos should be disproportionately affected except for neglect by community leaders and government funders\". The day was observed in more than 100 cities around the United States including New York, Miami, Los Angeles and Chicago. Events around the theme \"Prevention Saves Lives\" included \"proclamation ceremonies\", press conferences, educational and cultural events, HIV testing and counselling.\n\nThe theme for NLAAD in 2004 was \"Abre Los Ojos: el VIH No Tiene Fronteras - Open Your Eyes: HIV Has No Borders\". The day was recognised with statements by Tommy Thompson as Secretary of Health and Human Services and Anthony Fauci as Director of National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Activities were organised in almost 250 cities in 45 states \"to increase HIV awareness among Latinos, and to address the stigma and discrimination associated with AIDS\" and attracted sponsors including American Airlines, Verizon Foundation, Abbott Laboratories, Boehringer Ingelheim, Terra, PR Newswire, Viacom, Univision and NBC/Telemundo.\n\nBy the third NLAAD in 2005, the number of community partner organisations had reached 1000 and the day was marked in more than 350 cities in 46 states and in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands around the message \"Abre los ojos: Ama Tu Vida, Protegete, Hazte La Prueba - Open Your Eyes: Love Your Life, Protect Yourself, Get Tested\". Activities included prevention education, free testing, press conferences, public service announcements on major television networks and a Congressional briefing in Washington, D.C. on 18 October 2005.\n\n\"Saber Es Poder. Infórmate. Hazte La Prueba Del VIH - Knowledge is Power. Get the Facts. Get Tested for HIV.\" was the theme of the 2006 NLAAD.\n\nThe fifth NLAAD in 2007 adopted the theme \"Despierta! Toma Control! Hazte la Prueba del VIH! Wake Up! Take Control! Take the HIV Test!\". Publicity was also given to a draft Hispanic/Latino national agenda prepared by \"Hispanic/Latino organizations, departments of health, elected and designated officials\".\n\n\"United We Can: HIV/AIDS Stops Here. Prevention Starts With Us. Unidos Podemos: Detengamos Al VIH/SIDA. La Prevencion Empieza Con Nosotros\" was the theme for the sixth NLAAD in 2008. NLAAD claimed \"380 partners who together, organized 160 events in 101 cities across the United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.\"\n\n2008 also saw the release of \"SOY\" (\"I AM\") as an official media component of NLAAD. Produced by The Kaiser Family Foundation and Univision Communications, SOY was described as a \"Spanish-language media campaign featuring the personal stories of a diverse group of Latinos living with HIV and the people who love them.\"\n\nThe seventh NLAAD in 2009 adopted the theme \"United We Can Stop HIV and Prevent AIDS\" - Unidos Podemos Detener el VIH y Prevenir el SIDA\" placing an emphasis on community unity. NLAAD reported 420 partners and 350 events in 35 states in 2009.\n\n\"Save a Life, It May be your Own. Get Tested for HIV\" was chosen as the theme for the eighth NLAAD in 2010. In the lead-up to the day, there was an official launch of a new NLAAD bi-lingual website. 131 registered events were listed at the website.\n\nThe theme for the ninth NLAAD was \"Latinos stand together! Let's stay healthy! Get Tested for HIV\" placing HIV awareness in a general health awareness context.\n\n"}
{"id": "42842335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42842335", "title": "Norwegian Institute for Water Research", "text": "Norwegian Institute for Water Research\n\nThe Norwegian Institute for Water Research (NIVA) is an environmental research organisation which researches, monitors, assesses and studies freshwater, coastal and marine environments and environmental technology.\n\nNIVA's areas of work include environmental contaminants, biodiversity and climate related issues. NIVA's research reports can be accessed through BIBSYS, and all reports from 1956 until 2015 are available for download. Some of the more widely read articles are also made available by Sciencenordic.com and forskning.no (articles in Norwegian only). The institute has twelve sections, led by research managers: Aquaculture, Biodiversity, Innovation, International projects and cooperation, Chemicals, Effects of climate change, Laboratory services, Environmental contaminants, \nEnvironmental monitoring, Environmental technology and Measures against pollution.\n\nIn 2012 NIVA was in the news after its scientists developed a method of studying drug use in cities though analysis of sewage.\n\nNIVA was founded in 1958 and in 2015 is a non-profit research foundation. Its board is appointed by the Norwegian Ministry of the Environment, the Research Council of Norway and its employees. NIVA's Head Office is at the Oslo Innovation Centre in Oslo, with regional offices in Bergen, Grimstad and Hamar, as well as a large scale research facility in the Oslo Fjord. The organization is certified with ISO9001, and laboratory activities are accredited in accordance with ISO17025.\n\nNIVA has about 200 employees. Two-thirds of these have educational backgrounds in water sciences and more than half work in research.\n\nNIVA has several wholly and partly owned subsidiaries:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25762204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25762204", "title": "R v Dixon", "text": "R v Dixon\n\nRex v. Dixon, 3 M. & S. 11 (K.B. 1814), was a case decided by the King's Bench that held that a person could not be convicted of selling impure foods unless he knew of the impurities.\n\nThe case was later overruled in \"Regina v. Woodrow\", which abolished the mens rea requirement of \"Rex v. Dixon\".\n"}
{"id": "22488521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22488521", "title": "Radium Ore Revigator", "text": "Radium Ore Revigator\n\nThe Radium Ore Revigator was a pseudoscientific medical device consisting of a ceramic water crock lined with radioactive materials. It was patented in 1912 by R. W. Thomas. Thomas was working at the time as a stock salesman in Arizona but, by 1923, had moved to southern California to begin manufacture of his patent. In 1924, following several successful advertisement campaigns that left him unable to keep up with demand, he sold his operation to Dow-Herriman Pump & Machinery Company, selling thousands of the devices in the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nThe Revigator was intended to be filled with water overnight, which would be irradiated by the uranium and radium in the liner, and then consumed the next day. This was marketed as a healthy practice which could prevent illnesses including arthritis, flatulence, and senility.\nThe Revigator contained carnotite K(UO)(VO)·3HO. Water stored overnight in a vintage Revigator was analyzed by ICP/MS and radiation detectors. Although the water contained higher levels of radon, the health risk from radiation was low. Even so, the water contained detectable levels of arsenic, lead, vanadium, and uranium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27358017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27358017", "title": "Re A (conjoined twins)", "text": "Re A (conjoined twins)\n\nRe A (conjoined twins) [2001] 2 WLR 480 is a Court of Appeal decision on the separation of conjoined twins. The case raised several legal, ethical and religious dilemmas including whether it would be permissible to kill one of the children to save the other, and whether it was permissible to act against the wishes of the twins' parents.\n\nGracie and Rosie Attard, who were born on 8 August 2000, were conjoined twins who were joined at the abdomen. During legal proceedings, the twins were given the public pseudonyms \"Jodie\" and \"Mary\", respectively. The medical evidence indicated that Gracie was the stronger sibling who was sustaining the life of Rosie. Rosie had only survived birth due to a shared common artery that enabled her sister Gracie to oxygenate blood for both twins. If surgically separated, Gracie had a 94% survival rate, but Rosie was guaranteed to die. However, if they were left conjoined, then Gracie's health—which was already rapidly deteriorating—was predicted to fail before they were six months old. Gracie's death would inevitably result in Rosie's.\n\nAt first instance, Mr Justice Johnson was left to decide the case without any direct precedents to guide him but reasoned by analogy with \"Airedale NHS Trust v Bland\" where it was declared acceptable to remove life support. Johnson ruled that separation would not be murder but a case of \"passive euthanasia\" in which food and hydration would be withdrawn.\n\nThe Court of Appeal rejected this analysis but the three judges who presided over the case gave very different legal reasoning. Lord Justice Alan Ward invoked the concept of self-defence suggesting that \"If [Gracie] could speak she would surely protest, \"Stop it, [Rosie], you're killing me.\"\" Lord Justice Brooke relied upon \"R v Dudley and Stephens\" and invoked necessity as a defence. Lord Justice Robert Walker focused upon the intention of the surgeons in concluding that surgery could go ahead.\n\nThe 20-hour-long operation to separate the twins took place on 7 November 2000. As expected, Gracie survived the operation and Rosie died. Rosie's remains were later buried on the Maltese island of Gozo.\n\nIn 2014, when Gracie was 14 years old, she was living a reasonably normal life, had a younger sister, and was thinking about studying to become a physician.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51997642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51997642", "title": "Red Cross of Serbia", "text": "Red Cross of Serbia\n\nThe Red Cross of Serbia () is a humanitarian, non-governmental organisation that provides humanitarian aid, disaster relief and education in Serbia. It is the national affiliate of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.\n\nIt was founded on 6 February 1876 by Vladan Đorđević, a prominent Serbian physician.\n\nOne of the public authorisations given to the Red Cross of Serbia by the Government of Serbia is preparing, acting and educating people for response to disasters, armed conflicts and other emergency situations on the territory of Serbia. More than 3,000 volunteers in local branches of the Red Cross are educated for disaster response, while more than 300 of volunteers and employees were professionally trained for search and rescue in all environmental conditions. They are educated to perform specific tasks of the National disaster response teams:\n"}
{"id": "39354729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39354729", "title": "Red Cross service", "text": "Red Cross service\n\nThe Red Cross service (, RKD) is since 1903 a department of the Swiss Red Cross. It consists of approximately 300 women with qualified medical training in voluntary military service in support of the medical service in the Swiss Armed Forces, founded by Henry Dunant Red Cross traditions.\n\nThe members of the RKD (AdRKD) are divided into units, bodies of troops and staffs of the Swiss Armed Forces. They are trained by the army, equipped, used and remunerated. With few exceptions, they have the same rights and duties as the male members of the Army Medical Service. In particular, they enjoy the protection of the Geneva Conventions.\n\nAdRKD provide refresher courses with the troops, they are under the Coordinated Medical (KSD), but may also occur in extraordinary circumstances (severe epidemics or major disaster). They wear the uniform and insignia of the Army and related income replacement. The military grade are accompanied by the words \"RKD\", for example \"Wm RKD\" for sergeant.\n\nThe management of the service holds since February 2006 Colonel RKD Brigitte Rindlisbacher.\n\nThe Red Cross service accepts Swiss citizens who are between 18 and 38 years old. This requires a professional training in healthcare or in the areas of international law, education or adult education (for teaching of International humanitarian law and Red Cross principles).\n\nThe mass internment of foreign military personnel in Switzerland, showed in the German-French war, that the civilian Swiss Red Cross (SRC) and the Swiss Army are mutually dependent. Therefore, were private nursing training in 1903, which were under the patronage of the SRC, subsidized founds from the federal treasury. In return, the SRC had to support the army medical service if needed at a mobilization of two thirds of its medical personnel.\n\nInitially, only nurses were assigned to the Red Cross service. Later, women of pharmacy, medicine and alternative medicine are encouraged to join the Red Cross service. From the 2nd World War, Girl Scouts, office professional women, teachers, lawyers, etc. have been used in military hospitals, where they performed support services for the benefit of Hospital Administration.\n\n\n(100 years service in the Red Cross Swiss Army - women put Henry Dunant's idea to reality).\n"}
{"id": "22663843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22663843", "title": "Roman Šmucler", "text": "Roman Šmucler\n\nRoman Šmucler, MD, CSc (born 8 July 1969) is a Czech dentist, oral surgeon, specialist in laser and photonics medicine, university lecturer, entrepreneur, TV presenter, and scriptwriter.\n\nHe grew up in Příbram, where he attended elementary and high school. He began contributing to local newspapers when he was ten years old. In 1986 he won second place and in 1987 he won first and second place in a national literary contest. In 1987 he was admitted into the First Faculty of Medicine in Prague, studying Stomatology. In the spring of 1989 he won a casting call to a Czech radio program called \"Microforum\" together with Robert Tamchyna and Martin Ondráček. He became a member of the team at the new federal station E+M. In November 1989, he participated in the revolutionary broadcasts during the Velvet Revolution, started presenting \"Microforum\" and contributing to the program \"Microforum Night Service\". Since 1991 he has regularly presented \"Studio Contact\" in Czech Television and occasionally has been a presenter for other programs, such as \"Miss Czechoslovakia\" in 1992 and 1993.\n\nFollowing his graduation in 1992, he started working at the Clinic of Stomatology at the First Faculty of Medicine and the General University Hospital in Prague, where he works today. He is also the current chief physician of the Center for Medical Photonics where he lectures in English.\n\nIn 1995 he passed the first postgraduate examination and in 2002 the second postgraduate examination in Stomatology. In 2002, he also obtained a Candidate of Sciences degree (CSc.). He qualified in the First Faculty of Medicine at Charles University in Prague in the field of Stomatology by presenting his thesis entitled \"The Therapeutic Use of Laser in Orofacial Oncology\". He became an Associate Professor on 1 February 2010.\n\nHe has also been working at the Faculty of Medicine, Plzeň, where he researches the possibilities of treatment of oncological diseases with lasers.\n\nHe cooperates with the New York University College of Dentistry, and works at the Institute of Oncology and Rehabilitation Na Pleši.\n\nHe has participated in research fellowship programs in: Boston, Paris, Uppsala, Seoul, New York City and Vienna. He is a member of a range of Czech and international expert associations, where he also holds various positions. These include: SPIE, the American Society for Laser Medicine & Surgery (ASLMS), the American Academy of Implant Dentistry (AAID), the American Academy of Cosmetic Dentistry (AACD), ELA, and ESAD. The chief focus of his research is the application of lasers. Among other things, since 1996 he has been working on the committee of the Czech Medical Laspi Association with the Czech Medical Association of J.E. Purkyně, where he formerly held the position of secretary for science. He has been a chair for this organization since 2013. The name was changed to the Czech Medical Laspi Association so that it could further develop the new field of aesthetic medicine. He also engages in research in the fields of dental implants and dentoalveolar surgery. To date he has published 60 original and synoptic scientific papers. He has co-authored five research projects, mentors postgraduate students, and is dedicated to the popularization of science. He has written 112 articles and co-authored monographs, as well as television and radio programs requiring his expertise. He has delivered 152 lectures, 59 of which were given abroad. In 2016 he became a member of the scientific board the IMCAS Academy ( which deals with the interface of plastic surgery and dermatology), in Paris.\n\nOn 4 February 1994 he presented the first live broadcast of \"TV Nova\" and subsequently programs \"The Nod, Why?\", \"Tabu, 1 against 100\". He was the author of \"Tabu\", which was also screened abroad. He also appeared on programs such as \"The Golden Cage\", \"Miss of the Decade\", \"New Year's Eve Show\" and others. He left TV Nova in 2005. For six months in 2008 he accepted an offer to present the TV show \"Millionaire\" at TV Prima. In 2013, he resumed his work as a presenter for the \"Microforum Night Service\" at Czech Radio 2 and in collaboration with Czech Television he initiated preparations for the program \"The Brightest Czech\". In 2016 Czech Television aired the second season of \"The Brightest Czech\".\n\nSince 1992, he has been producing television programs under a business license. In 1996, he founded Asklepion-Lasercentrum Praha s.r.o. This company operates a non-state medical facility which has grown from the first Czech center specializing in laser aesthetic medicine into a multi-field institute of aesthetic medicine. The main clinic is in Prague with branches in Karlovy Vary and Mariánské Lázně. The company has taken part in establishing medical facilities that were later sold to other organizations (Prague, Ostrava), or those that were developed primarily for other fields. About 40% of the clientele seeking treatment comes from abroad. It also runs a few surgeries abroad too, e.g. in London. Gradually other subsidiary companies specializing in business, medical training, and cosmetics production have been established. In 2008, the firm bought an equity stake in the Institute of Oncology and Rehabilitation Na Pleši, s.r.o., which had been created a year earlier through privatisation. In the same year, through Asklepion SG Hospital, s.r.o. (together with SUDOP Group – a partner of Asklepion in the Na Pleši facility) it gained a majority stake in the Municipal Hospital Mariánské Lázně, which after a few years it sold off. At present it has targeted the majority of its investments in the development of new medical procedures and products.\n\nOn 23 July 2009 Šmucler became the leading candidate for the political party TOP 09 in the Karlovarský district for the canceled October general elections. In January 2010, he asked that his name to be removed from the top position on the list of candidates due to time-related matters.\n\nHe was married to Libuše Šmuclerová, the general director at Ringier Česká Republika, who was formerly the CEO at TV Nova. They are divorced. They have one daughter Justine-Anna, who was born in 2001. He remarried in 2015, his second wife is Ing. Iva Šmuclerová, successful banker HSBC associate.\n\nIn 2009, together with Prof. MD. Jiří Mazánek DrSc., and Dr. Marek Vlk, he was awarded the prize for medical research of 2008. He has been awarded prizes for giving speeches at foreign medical congresses and repeatedly nominated in viewer polls. In 2005, he came second in ANNO and TýTý polls. In 2015 he was an honorary member of the Society for Aesthetic and Laser Medicine of the Czech Medical Society of Jan Evangelista Purkyne.\n\n"}
{"id": "45031708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45031708", "title": "Rural health care in Australia", "text": "Rural health care in Australia\n\nRural health care in Australia involves the delivery of health services by private, community and public hospitals in areas classified as rural and remote. Researchers note that the health of those living in rural areas is quantitatively and qualitatively different to those living in major metropolitan areas. These differences include often significant gaps in service delivery, accessibility and lower health outcomes.\n\nRural areas and those who live in them are often understood as living in a spatially, economically, socially and culturally distinct group, although there are criticisms of this perspective. Despite the questions about the framing of rural and remote areas and health services as 'other' to the metropolitan norm or majority, the framing does \"highlight a serious social and equity issue,\" particularly the gap in access and health outcomes for rural and remote populations.\n\nRural and remote areas of Australia are classified according to a number of different schemes in relation to health care services and reporting. \n\nRural areas are classified by the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare as those extending from large rural centres (urban centre population 25,000-99,999) through to rural areas with an urban centre population of less than 10,000. Remote areas are classified as remote centres (urban centre population > 4,999) through to those areas with less than 5,000 inhabitants. The Commonwealth Department of Health utilises a similar classification structure called the Australian Standard Geographical Classification - Remoteness Area which was created by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Alongside its 'Districts of Workforce Shortage' data, the Department provides interactive mapping of the Country.\n\nPrimary Health Care (PHC) is defined by the World Health Organisation as:\n\"...essential health care based on practical, scientifically sound and socially acceptable methods and technology made universally accessible to individuals and families in the community through their full participation and at a cost that the community and country can afford to maintain at every stage of their development in the spirit of self-reliance and self-determination.\"  \nExperts agreed that the core primary care services which should be available to those living in rural and remote communities included care of the sick and injured, mental health, maternal/child health, allied health, sexual/reproductive health, rehabilitation, oral/dental health and public health/illness prevention. That these communities do not have exactly same access to health and medical services - particularly specialist and rarely used services - located in metropolitan communities should not matter if they are able to readily access high quality primary health care services. Research shows that access to this basket of essential primary health care services is not adequate in rural and remote communities.\n\nThe relationship between primary health care provision and improved health outcomes is supported by \"compelling international evidence\". Australians who live in rural and remote areas experience have poorer access to primary health care services than those living in metropolitan areas.\n\nSome challenges for delivering high quality primary health care services in rural and remote locations include the need for alternative models and approaches to delivering services. Service models used in rural and remote primary health care in Australia include discrete services, integrated services, comprehensive primary health care, outreach models and virtual outreach models.\n\nThe Australian Institute of Health and Welfare (AIHW) provides statistical and other data relating to rural and remote health system performance, health status and determinants of health. \n\nIn recent reports, the AIHW noted findings that \"compared with those in Major Cities, people in regional and remote areas were less likely to report very good or excellent health\", with life expectancy decreasing with increasing remoteness: \"[c]ompared with Major Cities, the life expectancy in regional areas is 1–2 years lower and in remote areas is up to 7 years lower.\" It was also noted that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples experienced worse health than non-Indigenous Australians.\n\nRural health care policy is driven by a combination of Commonwealth (Federal), State or Territory and Local Government. The Australian Health Ministers Advisory Council (AHMAC) Rural Health Standing Committee published a 'National Strategic Framework for Rural and Remote Health' in 2012. This document is an agreed statement made by Health Ministers of the Commonwealth, States and the Northern Territory to identify systemic issues which require government attention and to guide future government action. The agreed statement included a 'vision' that \"[p]eople in rural and remote Australia are as healthy as other Australians.\" It also identified access, service models and models of care, health workforce, collaborative partnership and planning at a local level and strong leadership, governance, transparency and performance as its five goals and outcome areas.\n\nRecent statements by the National Rural Health Alliance, argue that the Commonwealth Government's introduction of a co-payment for Medicare funded primary care services will compound the already poorer access to General Practitioners which rural and remote populations already experience. In a statement on the first proposal, it opposed the major policy change arguing that the consequences for access to primary care in rural areas would \"include higher rates of potentially preventable hospitalisations.\"\n\nThe definition of 'rural health' has been criticised by researchers and health practitioners who question why the phrase ‘rural’ is used. For them, \"it implies a unified, fixed and identifiable space that is empirically unproven.\" In particular, scholars question the accuracy of the construction of rural geographic classifications, and the links between rural classification efforts as \"recent impositions of government for facilitating resource allocation.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "16782149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16782149", "title": "Salivary diagnostics", "text": "Salivary diagnostics\n\nSalivary diagnostics or Salivaomics is a procedure for testing and maintaining the data for diagnostic purposes. Saliva based hand-held sensors are used to detect and measure proteins and nucleic acids that are present in saliva for diagnosis. Salivary diagnostic technology is showing promise in the detection and monitoring malignancies at early stage and other various health concerns. The advantages of salivary diagnostics includes ease of collection, elimination of fear of needles, inexpensive testing and reduce risk of disease transmission between healthcare workers and patients. In addition, salivary diagnostic is fast, highly sensitive and specific, portable, user-friendly and can screen for multiple agents simultaneously contributing in determining the scope of toxin exposure, thereby providing a quicker fight and diagnosis in the event of pandemic, epidemic and bioterrorism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "205012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205012", "title": "Sewerage", "text": "Sewerage\n\nSewerage is the infrastructure that conveys sewage or surface runoff (stormwater, meltwater, rainwater) using sewers. It encompasses components such as receiving drains, manholes, pumping stations, storm overflows, and screening chambers of the combined sewer or sanitary sewer. Sewerage ends at the entry to a sewage treatment plant or at the point of discharge into the environment. It is the system of pipes, chambers, manholes, etc. that conveys the sewage or storm water. \n\nIn American colloquial English, \"sewer system\" is applied more frequently to the large infrastructure of sewers that British speakers more often refer to as \"sewerage\".\n\nThe main part of such a system is made up of large pipes (i.e. the sewers, or \"sanitary sewers\") that convey the sewage from the point of production to the point of treatment or discharge.\n\nTypes of sanitary sewer systems that all usually are gravity sewers include:\n\nSanitary sewers not relying solely on gravity include:\n\nSevere constraints are applied to sewerage, which may result in premature deterioration. These include root intrusion, joint displacement, cracks, and hole formations that lead to a significant volume of leakage with an overall risk for the environment and public health. For example, it is estimated that 500 million m of contaminated water per year can leak into soil and ground-water in Germany. The rehabilitation and replacement of damaged sewers is very costly. Annual rehabilitation costs for Los Angeles County are about €400 million, and in Germany, these costs are estimated to be €100 million.\nHydrogen sulfide (HS) is indirectly responsible for biogenic sulfide corrosion and consequently, sewers need rehabilitation work. Various repair options are available to owners over a large range of costs and potential durability. One option is the application of a cementitious material based on calcium aluminate cement, after a cleaning of the corroded structure to remove loose material and contaminants in order to expose a sound, rough and clean substrate. Depending on the concrete condition and contamination, the cleaning can range from simple high pressure jet water cleaning (200 bar) up to real hydro-demolition (2000 bars).\n\nOne method to ensure sound concrete is exposed is to verify that the surface pH is superior to 10.\n\nAs for any concrete repair, the state-of-the-art rules must be followed. After this cleaning step, the cementitious material is applied to the saturated-surface-dry substrate using either:\n\nSewer system infrastructure often reduces the water table in areas, especially in densely populated areas where rainwater (from house roofs) is directly piped into the system, as opposed to being allowed to be absorbed by the soil. In certain areas it has resulted in a significant lowering of the water table. In the example of Belgium, a lowering of the water table by 100 meters has been the result. The freshwater that is accumulated by the system is then piped to the sea.\n\nIn areas where this is a concern, vacuum sewers may be used instead, due to the shallow excavation that is possible for them.\n\nIn many European countries, citizens are obliged to connect their home sanitation to the national sewerage where possible. This has resulted in large percentages of the population being connected. For example, the Netherlands have 99% of the population connected to the system, and 1% has an individual sewage disposal system or treatment system, e.g., septic tank. Others have slightly lower (although still substantial) percentages; e.g., 96% for Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "31752703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31752703", "title": "Sightsavers", "text": "Sightsavers\n\nSightsavers is an international non-governmental organisation that works with partners in developing countries to treat and prevent avoidable blindness, and promote equality for people with visual impairments and other disabilities. It is based in Haywards Heath in the United Kingdom, with branches in Sweden, Norway, India, Italy, Republic of Ireland, the United Arab Emirates, and the USA.\n\nThe charity was founded in 1950 by Sir John Wilson and was originally called the British Empire Society for the Blind, then the Royal Commonwealth Society for the Blind. Its patron is HRH Princess Alexandra. In its 65 year history, Sightsavers has distributed treatment to protect more than 295 million people against river blindness (onchocerciasis), carried out 6.1 million sight-restoring cataract operations and treated 43 million people with antibiotics to combat the potentially blinding infection trachoma.\n\nIn 1950 Sir John Wilson, himself blind, set up an international organisation to help people in the world’s poorest countries see again. In its first year, the organisation (then known as the British Empire Society for the Blind) formed national organisations for blind people in six countries, initially concentrating on education, rehabilitation and welfare.\n\nIn 1953, a number of surveys were conducted in West Africa to determine the extent of the various eye conditions. These proved that 80 per cent of blindness was either preventable or curable. Along with trachoma, onchocerciasis (also known as river blindness, a term coined by Sir John’s wife Lady Jean Wilson) was identified as a major cause of blindness in West Africa.\n\nSeveral pioneer schemes in rural training were set up in 1955 with the aim of integrating blind people into their communities by teaching useful skills such as crop cultivation, fishing, herding and rural crafts. Sir John observed that “In economic terms the cost of blindness is astonishing. Investing in training schemes is crucial in relieving this financial strain and allowing blind people to become independent and self-sufficient.” The following year, the first eye clinics were set up in Nigeria.\n\nThe changing political attitude towards Britain’s overseas territories resulted in a change of name in 1957 and organisation became known as the Commonwealth Society for the Blind. Royal status (RCSB) was conferred by the Queen a year later.\n\nIn 1960, the first mobile eye units appeared in Kenya and Uganda. In 1964, the charity’s first eye camp in Asia was held at Spencer Eye Hospital in Karachi, Pakistan. Sir John recognised the potential of these camps to deliver the world’s largest sight restoring programme.\n\nIn the late 1960s an experiment was launched in Katsina, Nigeria to determine whether blind children could be educated in local schools with the assistance of itinerant teachers. The scheme proved highly successful and was the forerunner of Sightsavers’ Inclusive Education Programme.\n\nIn 1977 the first permanent base hospitals were established in India to provide low cost mass treatment. By 1980 more emphasis was being put onto local training, which was recognised as key to the success of eye health programmes. In Malawi a training course for ophthalmic assistants was set up, and this now serves much of central and southern Africa.\n\nIn 1984, a gas leak in Bhopal, India, killed up to 8,000 people and temporarily blinded many more. The RCSB was the first relief to arrive and a UK disaster appeal was launched to fund the construction of a new eye hospital to treat the injured. In 1987, Blue Peter launched its ‘Sight Savers’ appeal, raising over £2 million for eye care across Africa, and RCSB subsequently adopted the title Sightsavers. The same year, pharmaceutical company Merck released Mectizan®, trade name for Ivermectin, a drug which killed the blindness-causing stage of the worms that cause onchocerciasis. Sightsavers could now begin a preventative distribution programme.\n\nAround 1994, Sightsavers was instrumental in the development of the Comprehensive Eye Services (CES) model, incorporating screening, treatment, surgery, education and training through to rehabilitation services. The model was designed to be replicated in new regions and countries. Sightsavers also set up training courses in new surgical techniques and supported the manufacture of replacement intraocular lenses in India.\n\nIn Sightsavers’ 50th year in 2000, a cataract campaign restored sight to over 400,000 people. The year also saw the launch of Vision 2020, a joint initiative with the World Health Organization and 19 international eye care organisations, including Sightsavers. Vision 2020 was created with a goal of eliminating avoidable blindness by 2020. Also in 2000, Sightsavers participated in the first World Sight Day, which is now held annually in October.\n\nIn 2012, Sightsavers led a consortium to set up the Global Trachoma Mapping Project, funded by the UK Department for International Development. The project aimed to map the prevalence of trachoma by using mobile phones to collect and transmit data to pinpoint the disease in 29 countries. The project was completed in 2016 and was the largest infectious disease survey ever undertaken.\n\nIn 2013, Sightsavers launched its first policy campaign, Put Us in the Picture, calling for global development to be inclusive of people with disabilities. \n\nIn December 2017, Sightsavers celebrated its one billionth treatment for neglected tropical diseases (NTDs).\n\nIn November 2016, charity evaluator GiveWell included Sightsavers in its list of top charities for that year, for the organisation's work on deworming programs, and published a review of the Sightsavers' work on that front. GiveWell also expects Good Ventures, a foundation it works closely with, to grant Sightsavers $3.0 million out of Good Ventures' budget of $50 million to give to GiveWell top charities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43946713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43946713", "title": "T-X", "text": "T-X\n\nT-X (referred to as the Terminatrix in some appearances) is the name of a fictional character who appears in the \"Terminator\" franchise. The T-X model is a gynoid assassin with a human-female appearance. The character was introduced as the main antagonist in the 2003 film \"\", portrayed by Kristanna Loken. The T-X has the ability to assume the appearance of other characters; therefore, several other cast members occasionally portrayed the T-X throughout the film. This ability to shapeshift is similar to that of the T-1000, the main antagonist of \"\".\n\nThe T-X was designed by Stan Winston and his studio team, where it was considered particularly challenging to design, as the script required a character capable of holding its own against the original Terminator. Originally, the T-X's endoskeleton was meant to convey an androgynous shape which would permit the android to assume the superficial traits of both men and women, though later designs veered on it being more feminine. The final, approved T-X design was done by Aaron Sims, who designed it entirely on computer through a mixture of Photoshop and 3D software. The T-X endoskeleton was painted chrome black, in order to differentiate it from the silver sheen of the T-850 endoskeleton, and fitted with blue running lights rather than the original's red. John Rosengrant later stated that the individual parts of the T-X endoskeleton were hard coated, sanded and polished through machines, resulting in a mathematically perfect model, unlike the endoskeleton in \"The Terminator\", which was sculpted by hand and lacked symmetry.\n\nThe T-X is designed to not only terminate humans but also rogue Terminators reprogrammed by the Resistance, an \"anti-terminator terminator\" as stated by John Connor. It is a composite of the T-800 and T-1000, combining the former's solid endoskeleton covered with the latter's liquid metal \"mimetic polyalloy\", allowing it to take the shape of any humanoid it touches. Because it is only coated in this material, it is possible to remove it from the endoskeleton using immensely strong magnetic force, such as that from a cyclic particle accelerator. Having a solid endoskeleton did solve some of the T-1000's problems, namely being deformed by temperature extremes and explosives while also lacking built-in ranged weaponry. However, the endoskeleton makes the T-X less flexible than its T-1000 predecessor, in that the T-X does not have the ability to liquefy and assume forms in innovative and surprising ways, including fitting through narrow openings, morphing its arms into solid metal tools or bladed weapons, walking through prison bars and narrow openings, or flattening itself.\n\nAlthough the official novelization of \"Terminator 2\" expanded the origin of the T-1000 and reveals it had onboard nanotechnology (and programmable memory) that was capable of scanning the molecular structure of anything the T-1000 touched, the T-X has a built-in supply of more advanced nanobots in its fingers, which it can inject into other machines (even a less-advanced android), giving it remote control. An onboard plasma reactor powers all of the T-X's systems.\n\nLoken had to gain over 15 pounds of muscle to portray the T-X. She was also trained by mime coach Thorsten Heinze, a long-time collaborator of famous mime Marcel Marceau, to develop a robotic style of moving.\n\nThe T-X is the main antagonist in \"\". \n\nShe was sent by Skynet to the year 2004 to eliminate John Connor's lieutenants and ensure that Skynet will rise without any interference. Among her targets is John's future wife, Kate Brewster, and her father, Robert—who is destined to become Connor's father-in-law and is Skynet's primary creator. The T-X arrives in a store, kills a woman, assumes her appearance, then steals the car and terminates three targets in the process.\n\nWhen it tracks down Kate Brewster in a veterinarian hospital, it locates John Connor and makes him her primary target. As she interrogates Kate, a T-850, which was sent to protect the T-X's targets, arrives and rescues John and Kate. After a chase, the T-X kills Kate's fiancé and impersonates him. It almost succeeds in killing Kate, but John and the Terminator arrive and rescue her. The T-X chases them through a cemetery, but fails to kill them.\n\nProceeding with its secondary mission, the T-X infiltrates the Cyber Research Systems and activates the T-1 terminator and Hunter Killer prototypes, which kills most of the employees. The T-X succeeds in killing Robert Brewster and ensuring Skynet's rise. After a tremendous fight with the T-850, it pursues John and Kate to Crystal Peak. Just as she prepares to kill them, the T-850 arrives in a helicopter and crashes into the T-X. The T-X, with her endoskeleton broken in half and revealed, crawls and pursues John. The T-850 grabs her and puts its hydrogen fuel cell in her mouth, destroying both the T-X and the T-850. Though it failed to kill John and Kate, the T-X succeeded in securing Skynet's rise.\n\nIn the book \"T3: Terminator Hunt\", the second known T-X is trained by captured resistance members for a jump to the 1960s where she will track the Connor family for the next forty years. A captured resistance soldier, Paul Keeley, is tricked into helping make the T-X more human. An implant in his brain causes him to think that the T-X is a girl named Eliza, and his interaction with her helps her learn how to be human. The resistance captures the T-X and rescues Keeley. But Eliza uses the implant to make Keeley think they have been captured by a rogue government, and he frees her. Overburdened with guilt, Keeley convinces John and Katherine Connor to give him another chance to capture Eliza. Through the implant, Paul discovers the training facility she has escaped to, and Eliza is again captured by the resistance and reprogrammed to serve it.\n\nIn the crossover comic \"\" (2000), there is a female Terminator called Terminatrix. However, it is never mentioned if it is a T-X or not as the comic predates the film \"Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines\" (2003).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4953051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4953051", "title": "The Bridge (2006 documentary film)", "text": "The Bridge (2006 documentary film)\n\nThe Bridge is a 2006 British-American documentary film by Eric Steel spanning one year of filming at the famed Golden Gate Bridge which crosses the Golden Gate entrance to San Francisco Bay, connecting the city of San Francisco, California to the Marin Headlands of Marin County, in 2004. The film captured a number of suicides, and featured interviews with family and friends of some of the identified people who had thrown themselves from the bridge that year.\n\nThe film was inspired by a 2003 article titled \"Jumpers,\" written by Tad Friend for \"The New Yorker\" magazine. The film crew shot almost 10,000 hours of footage, recording 23 of the known 24 suicides off the bridge in 2004.\n\nThe Golden Gate Bridge, which first opened in May 1937, was the most popular suicide site in the world during the documentary's filming, with approximately 1,200 deaths by 2003. Its death toll has since been surpassed only by the Nanjing Yangtze River Bridge in China.\n\nThe four-second fall from the Golden Gate Bridge sends a person plunging at to hit the waters of the San Francisco Bay \"with the force of a speeding truck meeting a concrete building.\" Jumping off the bridge holds a 98 percent fatality rate; some die instantly from internal injuries, while others drown or die of hypothermia.\n\nIn his article for \"The New Yorker\", Tad Friend wrote, \"Survivors often regret their decision in midair, if not before,\" supported by survivor Ken Baldwin explaining, \"I instantly realized that everything in my life that I'd thought was unfixable was totally fixable—except for having just jumped.\"\n\nIn the 1970s, the city's newspapers sparked \"countdowns\" as the death toll closed in on 500 recorded fatalities. Television crews covered the scene as bridge officials managed to stop 14 prospective jumpers, among them a man with a sign reading \"500\" pinned to his T-shirt. The media frenzy was even more intense in 1995 as the total drew close to 1,000. The body of the 1,000th victim, a 25-year-old who was seen jumping, remains unrecovered.\n\nSteel said he was shocked that, despite the Golden Gate Bridge's notoriety and history, nothing had been done to prevent people from attempting suicide there. \"Most bridges where, or high places, if it's high enough that it would be a fatal fall, have put up suicide barriers precisely for this reason.\"\n\nSteel steered clear of publicity about the project to avoid a situation where someone would \"get it into his or her head to go to the bridge and immortalize him or herself on film.\" The camera crew consisted of 10 to 12 people who filmed the bridge day and night in 2004, using telephoto and wide-angle cameras.\n\nIn the first few months of filming, the crew captured only splashes on the water and only knew someone had jumped when the Coast Guard arrived. The first jumper caught with the telephoto lens was not behaving as filmmakers expected – crying and weeping – but, rather, was jogging, talking on his cellphone and laughing; he then suddenly put his things away and leaped to his death. During filming, on average, one person jumped off the Golden Gate Bridge every 15 days.\nThe film also shows many people being saved from jumping. In one case a woman traversed the upper railing to the lower railing only to be pulled by her collar back to safety by an unrelated photographer. Filmmakers tried in each case to intercede when they could, succeeding in preventing six jumps. The crew members were trained in suicide prevention prior to filming, and had their phones programmed to call the bridge authority if they suspected someone was about to jump. \"All of us came to the same conclusion that we were human beings first and filmmakers second,\" Steel said. However, in most cases there was either no warning or no time to prevent the jump.\n\nThe documentary also features an interview with Kevin Hines, who survived his suicide attempt in 2000. As he fell toward the water, he decided that he wanted to live after all and positioned himself so he hit the water feet first. He suffered serious injuries to his spine, but his life was saved by a black seal swimming below him. He later attributed the seal's presence as a sign from God.\n\nSteel interviewed relatives and friends of the suicide victims, but did not inform them that he had footage of their loved ones' deaths. He claimed that, \"All the family members now, at this point, have seen the film, [and are] glad that they had participated in it.\" He filmed 120 hours of interviews.\n\nJumper Gene Sprague's life is shown throughout the film, ending with his jump into the water, shown as the last jump of the film from two opposite points. While the film crew was filming on May 11, 2004, Sprague appeared at the Golden Gate Bridge and walked back and forth over the bridge for 93 minutes. Eventually, he climbed the railing, sat for a few seconds, then stood with his back to the water and fell motionless into the water below.\nAccording to Steel, Sprague \"walked across the bridge from the south to the north side and then from north to south, which are typically tourists. I did not think he would jump, but it must have been something about him that caught my attention.\"\n\nThe documentary caused significant controversy when bridge officials charged Steel with misleading them about his intentions. In his permit application to the Golden Gate National Recreation Area, a government agency that does not have any jurisdiction over the bridge but that does manage nearby park areas, Steel wrote he intended \"to capture the powerful, spectacular intersection of monument and nature that takes place every day at the Golden Gate Bridge.\"\n\nSteel says he lied on his permit application because he believed he would be instantly rejected if the true scope of his project was known. He also wanted to keep the nature of the project secret in order to prevent anyone from jumping to have their deaths recorded in the documentary: \"To me, the worst-case scenario was if word got out that we were filming around the clock.\"\n\nCelia Kupersmith, CEO and general manager of the Golden Gate Bridge Highway and Transportation District, said there was an increase in suicide attempts at the bridge when the documentary began appearing at film festivals and attracting publicity. District spokeswoman Mary Currie called the film an \"invasion of privacy.\"\n\nKyle Gamboa, a high school student from Fair Oaks, California, skipped school in September 2013 to jump off the bridge, yelling \"Yahoo!\" as he leaped to his death. \"The New York Times\" reported he had watched the trailer for \"The Bridge\" repeatedly. His suicide note read, \"I'm happy. I thought this was a good place to end.\"\n\n\"The Bridge\" was a box office success; from an estimated budget of $25,000, the film grossed $179,780 domestically and $25,944 overseas for a worldwide total of $205,724.\n\nThe film received mostly positive reviews and a 67% \"fresh\" rating from 57 reviews on Rotten Tomatoes, where the critical consensus states: \"Tactlessly morbid or remarkably sensitive? Deeply disturbing or viscerally fascinating? Critics are divided on Eric Steel's unique documentary on the Golden Gate Bridge, wonder of the modern world and notorious suicide destination.\" On Metacritic, the film has a 58/100 rating, signifying \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nCritic Stephen Holden of \"The New York Times\" said the film \"juxtaposes transcendent beauty and personal tragedy.\" He praised its simple documentary approach, noting it was \"remarkably free of religious cant and of cozy New Age bromides,\" calling it \"one of the most moving and brutally honest films about suicide ever made.\"\n\nJosh Rosenblatt of \"The Austin Chronicle\" gave the film three out of five stars and wrote: \"The results are striking: an emotional and aesthetic whirlpool of horror, fascination, beauty, and resignation that would probably drown lesser movies but that gives 'The Bridge' an eerie power.\"\n\nOther critics condemned the film for its subject matter. \"The Times\" called it \"gripping viewing but you feel like a voyeur of somebody else's pain. After a while you may feel that you're watching a particularly scenic snuff film.\" Andrew Pulver of \"The Guardian\" gave it one out of five stars, saying it \"could be the most morally loathsome film ever made.\"\n\nA DVD of the documentary was released by Koch Lorber Films on June 12, 2007.\n\nThe soundtrack of \"The Bridge\" was composed by the British film composer Alex Heffes and is called \"The Shadow of the Bridge.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5623002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5623002", "title": "UK Coalition of People Living with HIV and AIDS", "text": "UK Coalition of People Living with HIV and AIDS\n\nThe UK Coalition of People Living with HIV and AIDS (UKC) was a United Kingdom-based organisation. Due to debt, it ceased operations at 5 pm on July 25, 2007.\n\nUKC was established in 1993 as a \"not for profit\" organisation run by and for people living with HIV. In its original form, it was led by peers who advocated on behalf of those who most required the help. The onus was on listening to what clients required and empowering them, thus giving them the skills to face further challenges rather than allowing them to become dependent of services.\n\nIts mission was to “to ensure the diverse voices of people living with HIV and AIDS could be heard.”\n\nIt supported people living with HIV with advocacy and advice services, and later devised an employability programme called Ensuring Positive Futures which aimed to support people living with HIV in the workplace. They shared offices and resources with the Denholm Elliot Project.\n\n\"Positive Nation\" is an HIV and sexual health magazine, now published privately but established by the Coalition and published by them until 15 May 2007 when it had an annual readership of approximately 60,000.\n\nUKC worked closely with HIV organisations across the EU in developing European policies and programmes, in addition to those in Uganda, South Africa and Zambia. \n\nIts structure of HIV-positive people supporting and empowering other HIV-positive people was seen by the UN and the International Labour Organization as a useful model for HIV organisations in the developing world.\n\nAn article published on 7 September 2010 by \"Third Sector Magazine\" reported that the Metropolitan Police were currently investigating allegations of fraud at the defunct charity, and that no arrests had yet been made.\n\n"}
{"id": "39046087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39046087", "title": "Wolf trap", "text": "Wolf trap\n\nA wolf trap (Spanish \"lobera\", Italian \"luparia\") was a chase ending in a pit with trapdoor and stakes used by beaters in hunting wolves in medieval Europe.\n"}
{"id": "9232598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9232598", "title": "Étang de Saint-Quentin", "text": "Étang de Saint-Quentin\n\nThe Étang de Saint-Quentin, or pond of Trappes, with a surface of approximately 2.5 km², is the largest body of fresh water in Yvelines. It on in the perimeter of the new town of Saint-Quentin-in-Yvelines, in the commune of Trappes and Montigny-le-Bretonneux. The lake an important base of outdoor recreation. To the west of the lake a national natural reserve of 0.87 km² was established in 1986.\n\nThe Étang de Saint-Quentin is an artificial lake created by Sebastien Prestre, Lord of Vauban in 1685 to form part of an engineering work intended to feed water, by gravity, to the park of Versailles. The lake is 160 metres above sea level. A series of drains and aqueducts connected the lake to other ponds upstream, and downstream to the park of the castle of Versailles, at 110 metres above sea level. The construction of the new city demolished the aqueducts to Versailles.\n"}
