{"id": "55057586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55057586", "title": "1931 Summer Deaflympics", "text": "1931 Summer Deaflympics\n\nThe 1931 Summer Deaflympics officially known as the 3rd Summer Deaflympics (3rd International Silent Games) is an international multi-sport event that was held from 19 August 1931 to 23 August 1931. It was hosted by Nürnberg,Germany.\n\nThe 3rd Summer Deaflympics Games were originally scheduled to be held in 1932, but was decided to host it in 1931 due to the schedule of 1932 Summer Olympics.\n\nOn the other hand, Poland were not allowed to participate at the Games due to Germany's conflict with Poland during the Nazi rule at that time as the Games held in Germany.\n"}
{"id": "58353107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58353107", "title": "1968 movement in Pakistan", "text": "1968 movement in Pakistan\n\nThe 1968 Movement in Pakistan was part of the protest against the dictatorial regime of Ayub Khan. It took the form of a mass uprising of students and workers, attracting people from every profession. The uprising took place from early November 1968, to the end of March 1969, around 10 to 15 million people were involved. The movement resulted in the regime of Ayub Khan (President of Pakistan) being brought down.\n\nSince the nation's birth in 1947, Pakistan had been governed though bureaucracy. In 1958, the army seized power through a coup led by Ayub Khan. Under his rule, the country's economy grew at an average yearly rate of more than 5%. However, due to income inequality, Pakistan became a country with extreme wealth and extreme poverty. Ayub Khan's policies nourished the capitalist class, whose fortunes amassed, but it oppressed ordinary people with increasing material poverty, as well as intellectual poverty due to rigorous political and cultural censorship. On April 21, 1968, Dr. Mahbub ul Haq, the then Chief Economist of the Planning Commission, identified Pakistan's 22 richest families that controlled 66 percent of the industries and owned 87 percent shares in the country's banking and insurance industry. Similarly, the Ayub regime implemented its own version of land reforms, under which a limit was imposed upon land holding. However, it failed miserably, and over 6,000 landowners exceeded his defined ceilings, owning 7.5 million acres of land. The average income in West Pakistan was a mere £35 per year; in East Pakistan, the figure was lower at £15. In 1965, presidential elections were held. These elections were not based upon adult franchise but on basic democracy. A few thousand so-called elected representatives of local bodies had to elect the president. There were wide speculations of election interference which also led to the opposition's protest. That same year, Pakistan went to war with India. The costs of the war put an end to economic growth and saw massive increase in defence spending. Private investment growth in Pakistan saw 20% decline in the following years.\n\nIn the early months of 1968, Ayub Khan celebrated what was called the \"Decade of Development\", outraged citizens erupted into agitations. That same year in November, a group of students from Rawalpindi were heading back from Landi Kotal, and were stopped at customs checkpoints near Attock. They were aggressively met by customs officials. On returning to Rawalpindi, they staged a protest against their mishandling by police as result of their experience. Protests grew to a sizeable amount, resulting in the police trying to dismantle the protests and shots being fired. A student of Rawalpindi Polytechnic College, Abdul Hameed, was shot dead. Already, outraged citizens were protesting against a rise in the price of sugar; the death of Hameed sparked the whole society and workers to join. Prominent writer Tariq Ali narrates incident in following words; Without any physical provocation the police, who were fully armed with rifles, batons, and tear-gas bombs, opened fire. One bullet hit Abdul Hamid, a first-year student aged seventeen, who died on the spot. Enraged, the students fought back with bricks and paving stones, and there were casualties on both sides.In February and March 1968, a wave of strikes occurred in the country. On February 13th, for the first time in ten years, the red flag was hauled up in Lahore, as more than 25,000 rail workers marched along the main street chanting: \"Solidarity with the Chinese people: Destroy capitalism.\" However, there was no mass Marxist party to provide leadership. In the industrial district of Faisalabad, the district administration had to seek the permission of a local labor leader named Mukhtar Rana for the supply of goods through trucks. All censorship failed. Trains were carrying the revolutionary messages across the country. Workers invented new methods of communication. It was the industrialisation, exploitation, and oppression widening the gulf between rich and poor which brought this change. In an interview for the book, \"Pakistan's Other Story-The 1968–69 Revolution\", Munnu Bhai revealed some anecdotes of the upsurge. \"At a public meeting in Ichra, Lahore, Jamaat-e-Islami leader Maulana Maudoodi held a piece of bread in his one hand and the Holy Koran in the other. He asked the crowd, 'Do you want roti (bread) or the Koran?' The people had replied, 'We have the Koran in our homes, but we don't have bread.' \" \n\nAccording to the telegraphic narration of the events of those days in Mubashar Hasan's book, \"The crises of Pakistan and their solution\".\"In this movement, a total of 239 people were killed, 196 in East Pakistan and 43 in West Pakistan. According to details police firing killed 41 in West Pakistan and 88 in East Pakistan. Most of them were students. In East Pakistan, they included Asad, Matiur, Anwar, Rostom, Dr. Shamsuzzoha and Sergeant Zahrul Huq\".By early 1969, the movement was joined by peasant committees and organisations in the country's rural areas. In March 1969, a group of senior military men advised Ayub to step down, fearing the eruption of a full-scale civil war in East Pakistan and the political and social anarchy in the country's west wing. Even Ayub Khan conceded how the movement had paralysed the functioning of the state and society.\"The civilian labor force in Karachi dockyards had struck and stopped work. No loading or unloading of ships was being done. In one case a ship went back empty as it could not be loaded with cotton. Bhashani has been in Karachi and elsewhere spreading disaffection. Expectations were that the situation was likely to deteriorate\".\n\nOn the 25th of March, Ayub Khan resigned as President of Pakistan and announced he was turning over the government of the nation to Army Chief of Staff Gen. Yahya Khan. Two days later, he highlighted reasons for his resignation in letter to General Yahya Khan in the following words;I am left with no option but to step aside and leave it to the Defence Forces of Pakistan, which today represent the only effective and legal instrument, to take full control of the country. They are by the grace of God in a position to retrieve the situation and to save the country from utter chaos and total destruction. They alone can restore sanity and put the country back on the road to progress in a civil and constitutional manner.The Police Service of Pakistan was unable to control the situation and the law and order situation began to worsen in the country, especially in the East where the serious uprising and riots were quelled in 1969. It became so serious that at one point, Home and Defence Minister Vice-Admiral Rahman told the journalists that the \"country was under the mob rule and that police were not strong enough to tackle the situation.\" In the 1970 Pakistani general election, the AL won 98 percent of the allotted national and provincial assembly seats in East Pakistan, whereas in West Pakistan, the PPP swept the polls in the region's two largest provinces, Punjab and Sindh. NAP performed well in the former NWFP and Balochistan. Most of the \"status quo parties\" (such as the many Muslim League factions) and most religious outfits (except Jamiat Ulema Islam) were decimated.\n"}
{"id": "19043821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19043821", "title": "1993 child sexual abuse accusations against Michael Jackson", "text": "1993 child sexual abuse accusations against Michael Jackson\n\nIn mid-1993, Evan Chandler accused Michael Jackson of sexually abusing his 13-year-old son, Jordan \"Jordy\" Chandler. The relationship between Jackson and Jordan had begun in May 1992; Chandler initially encouraged the friendship. The friendship became well known as the tabloid media reported that Jackson had become a member of the Chandler family. In 1993, Chandler confronted his ex-wife June, who had custody of Jordan, with suspicions that their son had been in an inappropriate relationship with Jackson, but June dismissed his worries. Chandler threatened to go public with the evidence he claimed to have. \n\nJackson asked his lawyer Bert Fields to intervene. On July 15, Abrams, a psychologist, sent Chandler's attorney Barry Rothman a letter stating there was \"reasonable suspicion\" of sexual abuse. He wrote that if it had been a real case, he would be required by law to contact the Los Angeles County Department of Children's Services. On August 4, Chandler and Jordan met with Jackson and Anthony Pellicano, Jackson's private investigator, and Chandler read out Abrams' letter. He then opened negotiations to resolve the issue with a financial settlement. Chandler and Rothman had rejected a $350,000 offer from Jackson. On August 16, June's attorney notified Rothman that he would file papers to force Chandler to return Jordan to allow him to go on Jackson's Dangerous World Tour.\n\nOn the day Jackson began the third leg of his tour, news of the allegations broke to the public and received worldwide media attention. Jackson cancelled the remainder of the tour due to health problems arising from the scandal. In January 1994, Jackson reached a financial settlement for $23,000,000 with the Chandlers and in September a criminal investigation was closed. On November 5, 2009, 5 months after Jackson's death, Evan Chandler committed suicide in his apartment in Jersey City, New Jersey.\n\nJackson became firm friends with Jordan Chandler and his family after a meeting in May 1992, as he was a fan of Jackson. Their friendship became so close that the \"National Enquirer\" ran a featured story with the title \"Michael's New Adopted Family\". The story implied that Jackson had \"stolen\" the boy from his estranged father, Evan Chandler, a dentist. Chandler was jealous over Jackson's influence on his son. According to biographer J. Randy Taraborrelli, Chandler asked, \"Look, are you having sex with my son?\" When Jackson said no, Chandler's opinion of Jackson changed.\n\nJackson invited Jordan, his stepsister and his mother to visit his Neverland Ranch on the weekends. They would also take trips to Las Vegas and Florida. These trips interfered with Jordan's scheduled visits with his father, with Jordan preferring to visit Neverland. By mid-1993, it was revealed that Jackson had children sleep in his bed with him at at Neverland, which attracted media scrutiny after child sexual abuse allegations were brought against him. \n\nIn May 1993, when Jackson and Jordan stayed with Chandler, Chandler urged Jackson to spend more time with his son and even suggested that Jackson build an addition to the house so that Jackson could stay there. After the zoning department said this could not be built, Chandler suggested that Jackson build him a new home. That month, Jordan and June flew with Jackson to Monaco for the World Music Awards. According to June's lawyer, Michael Freeman, \"Evan began to get jealous of the involvement and felt left out.\" Upon their return, Chandler was pleased with a five-day visit from Jackson, during which Jackson slept in a room with Jordan and his stepbrother. Chandler said this is when he became suspicious of sexual misconduct by Jackson, although he said that Jackson and Jordan were clothed when he saw them in bed together, and has never claimed to have witnessed sexual misconduct.\n\nOn July 2, 1993, in a private telephone conversation, Chandler was recorded saying: \n\nIn the same conversation, when asked how this would affect his son, Chandler replied:\n\nThe recorded conversation was a critical aspect of Jackson's defense against the allegations made against him. He and his supporters argued that he was the victim of a jealous father whose only goal was to extort money from him. In October 1994, Mary A. Fischer of \"GQ\" magazine reported it was Chandler who initially accused Jackson of molesting his son, before he demanded a screenwriting deal from Jackson instead of going to the police.\n\nAccording to Taraborrelli, Chandler was forced to admit that he had used the controversial sedative sodium amytal when he extracted a tooth from Jordan in early August. Sodium amytal is a barbiturate that puts people in a hypnotic state when injected intravenously. Studies done in 1952 debunked the drug as a truth serum and demonstrated that it enabled false memories to be implanted. \n\nDr. Phillip Resnick, a Cleveland psychiatrist, said it was \"a psychiatric medication\" and \"People will say things under sodium amytal that are blatantly untrue\". In May 1994, in Napa County, California, Gary Ramona won a lawsuit against his daughter's therapist and the psychiatrist who had given her sodium amytal. The psychiatrist claimed the drug helped Ramona's daughter remember specific details of sexual molestation by Ramona, but a court brief written by Martin Orne, a University of Pennsylvania psychiatrist who pioneered research of hypnosis and sodium amytal, stated that the drug is \"not useful in ascertaining 'truth' . . . The patient becomes sensitive and receptive to suggestions due to the context and to the comments of the interviewers.\" This was the first successful legal challenge to the \"repressed memory phenomenon\". \n\nDr. Kenneth Gottlieb, a San Francisco psychiatrist, said: \"It’s absolutely a psychiatric drug ... I would never want to use a drug that tampers with a person’s unconscious unless there was no other drug available. And I would not use it without resuscitating equipment, in case of allergic reaction, and only with an M.D. anesthesiologist present.\" According to Dr. John Yagiela, coordinator of the anesthesia and pain control department of the UCLA School of Dentistry, \"It’s unusual for it to be used [for pulling a tooth]\" and \"better, safer alternatives are available.\"\n\nOn May 3, 1994, KCBS-TV reported that Chandler claimed the drug was used for tooth extraction and that the allegations came out while Jordan was under the influence of the drug. Mark Torbiner, the dental anesthesiologist who administered the drug, told \"GQ\" that if sodium amytal was used, \"it was for dental purposes\". According to Diane Dimond of \"Hard Copy\", Torbiner's records show that Robinul and Vistarol was administered instead of sodium amytal. The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration was investigating Torbiner's administration of drugs in house calls, where he mostly gave patients morphine and Demerol. His credentials with the Board of Dental Examiners indicated that he was restricted by law to administering drugs solely for dental-related procedures, but he had not adhered to those restrictions. For instance, he had given general anesthetic to Barry Rothman during hair-transplant procedures. Torbiner had introduced Chandler and Rothman in 1991, when Rothman needed dental work.\n\nOver the next couple of months, the parties of Jackson and Chandler engaged in unsuccessful out-of-court negotiations. Chandler and his legal team asked for $20 million, or threatened to take the dispute to a criminal court. Jackson refused, saying, \"No way in hell\". A few weeks later, Jackson's legal team gave a counter-offer of $1 million, which was declined by Chandler. Pellicano said he made the offers in an attempt to catch the Chandler's negotiating and recorded one of the telephone calls to Rothman to demonstrate this. Chandler lowered his request to $15 million. Jackson refused and lowered his offer to $350,000, which Chandler refused. With both sides unable to reach an agreement, Chandler decided to take it to court. \n\nChandler took Jordan to a psychiatrist, Dr. Mathis Abrams. Over a three-hour session with Abrams, Jordan said he had had a sexual relationship with Jackson that went on for several months, and which included incidents of kissing, masturbation and oral sex. He repeated these allegations to police and gave a detailed description of what he alleged was Jackson's penis.\n\nOn August 18, the Los Angeles Police Department's Sexually Exploited Child Unit began a criminal investigation into Jackson. The same day, June told police that she did not believe Jackson had molested her son. On August 21, a search warrant was issued, allowing police to search Neverland Ranch. Police questioned 30 children who were friends of Jackson, who all stated that Jackson was not a child molester. A police officer involved in the investigation told \"The Los Angeles Times\" that no evidence (medical, photographic or video) could be found that would support a criminal filing. \n\nOn the day the allegations were made public, August 24, Jackson began the third leg of his Dangerous World Tour, in Bangkok. That same day, Jackson's investigator held a press conference accusing Chandler of trying to extort $20 million. He did not mention that Jackson had made several counter-offers. On August 25, Jackson's young friends Brett Barnes and Wade Robson held a press conference in which they stated that they had slept in the same bed as Jackson, but nothing sexual in nature had occurred. Jackson's family held another press conference to show support, saying it was their \"unequivocal belief\" that Michael had been made a victim of a cruel and obvious attempt to take advantage of his fame and wealth. \n\nThe police began an investigation into Chandler, and found that he was $68,400 behind in his child support payments, despite being well-paid as a dentist. On November 8, police searched the Jackson family home, Hayvenhurst, but found nothing of importance. According to internal reports from the LA County DCFS at the time, Chandler's story remained largely consistent but dates, places, times and some details were inconsistent. According to reports, the DCFS had investigated Jackson beginning in August 1993 with the Chandler allegation and again in 2003. The LAPD and DCFS found no credible evidence of abuse or sexual misconduct.\n\nIn the winter of 1993, Jackson's sister La Toya Jackson, who had not spoken to him for several years, claimed that Jackson was a pedophile. La Toya stated: \"I cannot and will not be a silent collaborator in his crimes against young children ... Forget about the superstar, forget about the icon. If he was any other 35-year-old man who was sleeping with little boys, you wouldn't like this guy.\" She claimed that checks had been made out to several boys and that Jackson's own physical abuse as a child had turned him into an abuser. She later claimed that Jackson had tried to kidnap and kill her. \n\nLaToya claimed to have proof of Jackson's pedophilia and offered to disclose it for $500,000. A bidding war between US and UK tabloids began, but fell through when they realized that her revelations were not what she had claimed. The rest of the family disowned her, and in later years she insisted she had been forced to make the allegations by her then-husband for financial gain. Just prior to making the allegations, her husband had been arrested for assaulting her. By the turn of the millennium Jackson had forgiven his sister.\n\nJackson first met Lisa Marie Presley in 1974, during a Jackson 5 engagement at the MGM Grand. In November 1992, Jackson was reconnected with Presley through a mutual friend, and they talked almost every day by telephone. As the child sexual abuse accusations became public, he became dependent on Presley for emotional support; she was concerned about his faltering health. She explained, \"I believed he didn't do anything wrong and that he was wrongly accused and yes I started falling for him. I wanted to save him. I felt that I could do it.\" She described him in one call as high, incoherent and delusional. He proposed to her over the phone towards the fall of 1993, saying, \"If I asked you to marry me, would you do it?\" The marriage was, in her words, \"a married couple's life ... that was sexually active\". They divorced less than two years later, but remained friends.\n\nJackson had begun taking painkillers, Valium, Xanax and Ativan to deal with the stress of the allegations. A few months after the allegations became news, he had lost approximately 10 pounds in weight and had stopped eating. According to Jackson, he had a tendency to stop eating when \"really upset or hurt\" and his friend Elizabeth Taylor had to make him eat: \"She took the spoon and would put it into my mouth.\" He said that he eventually became unconscious and had to be fed intravenously. \n\nIn a court deposition unrelated to the alleged child abuse, Jackson appeared drowsy, lacked concentration and slurred while speaking. He said he could not remember the dates of his album releases or the names of people he had worked with, and took several minutes to name some of his recent albums. His health had deteriorated to the extent that he canceled the remainder of his tour and flew with Taylor and her husband to London. When Jackson arrived at the airport, he had to be held up. He was rushed to the home of Elton John's manager and afterwards to a clinic. When he was searched for drugs on entry, 18 vials of medicine were found in a suitcase. Jackson booked the whole fourth floor of the clinic, and was put on a Valium IV to wean him from painkillers. His spokesperson told reporters that Jackson was \"barely able to function adequately on an intellectual level\". While in the clinic, he took part in group and one-on-one therapy sessions.\n\nIn December 1993, Jackson was served with a warrant for a strip search, as police wanted to verify Jordan Chandler's description of Jackson's private anatomy. The order stated that officers were to examine, photograph and videotape Jackson's entire body, \"including his penis, anus, hips, buttocks and any other part of his body\". The warrant stated they were looking for discoloration or any other signs of vitiligo that he had spoken about, or any other skin disorder, and that refusal to comply would be used in court as an indication of guilt. \n\nThe strip search took place on December 20, 1993, at Jackson's ranch. Those present for the prosecution were Santa Barbara District Attorney Tom Sneddon, a detective, a photographer and a doctor. Those present on behalf of Jackson were his two attorneys, a physician, a detective, a bodyguard and a photographer. The attorneys and Sneddon agreed to leave the room when the examination took place. At Jackson's insistence, the prosecution detective also left. In an emotional state, Jackson stood on a platform in the middle of the room and disrobed. The search lasted for approximately 25 minutes. He was never touched.\n\nReports vary on whether the photographs of Jackson corroborated Jordan's allegations. \"Reuters\" reported that an unidentified source informed them on January 27, 1994, that \"photos of Michael Jackson's genitalia do not match description given by the boy\", which was reported in \"USA Today\" on January 28. However, according to child sexual abuse consultant Bill Dworin, one of the lead detectives on the case, Jordan's description comported with the photos taken of Jackson's genitalia. Dr. Richard Strick, who conducted the examination of Jackson's genitals, stated, \"I was told later that the photos and description absolutely matched\". According to Sneddon in a 2005 memorandum in People v. Jackson, \"The photographs reveal a mark on the right side of Defendant's penis at about the same relative location as the dark blemish located by Jordan Chandler on his drawing of Defendant's erect penis\" and \"Chandler's graphic representation of the discolored area on Defendant's penis is substantially corroborated by the photographs.\" Sneddon ended his declaration with \"I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct except for those statements made on information and belief, as to those statements, I believe them to be true.\" Sergeant Gary Spiegel, the sheriff’s photographer, claims he observed a dark spot on the lower side of Jackson’s penis.\n\nJordan claimed that Jackson was circumcised. Jackson's autopsy report reveals that he had not been circumcised and his foreskin appeared naturally intact and showed no signs of having been restored from a circumcision. Taraborrelli claims that Jordan correctly noted patchy colored skin on his buttocks, short pubic hair, and testicles marked pink and brown; however, initially investigators claimed Chandler said Jackson had splotches on his genitals a color \"similar to the color of his face\" rather than pink and brown. \n\nOn February 10, 1993, Jackson had revealed to \"Oprah\" that he had a skin disorder that destroyed skin pigmentation and left blotches on his skin, and that make-up was used to even out his skin. The interview was watched by 90 million viewers, and after it aired, expert information on vitiligo was widely shared in the media. According to private investigator Anthony Pellicano, who questioned Jordan in July 1993 after hearing Evan's taped phone call, Jordan denied that he ever saw Jackson's body but said he did lift his shirt once to show him the blotches on his skin. At the behest of a grand jury, investigators made a probe into Jackson's history, including familial interviews, to see if he had any surgeries or procedures done to alter his body's appearance as the jury felt there was a lack of a clear match with Jordan's description.\n\nPublicized later was an internal report within the LAPD and Los Angeles County DCFS which showed the DCFS had cleared Jackson early on of unfounded molestation charges from the Chandlers, and later from the Arvizos in 2003.\n\nOn December 22, Jackson responded to events for the first time via satellite from his ranch: \n\nA poll at the time, conducted by \"A Current Affair\", found that nearly 75 percent of Americans believed Jackson was telling the truth. While Jackson sought medical help for his faltering health, his legal team and friends, such as Presley and Taylor, took control of his defense and finances. Much of Jackson's legal team would meet three times a week at Taylor's home to discuss the case. Taylor then called in more legal professionals on Jackson's behalf. Eventually, Presley, Taylor, and Jackson's team agreed that Jackson was too sick to endure a lengthy trial, and that he should settle out of court.\n\nMost of the information available on the allegations was released (officially or unofficially) by the prosecution and unchallenged by Jackson. Jackson was largely portrayed as guilty by the media, which used sensational headlines or headlines that implied guilt when the content itself did not support the headline, purchased stories of his alleged criminal activity and confidential leaked material from the police investigation, deliberately used unflattering photographs, and exercised a general lack of objectivity.\n\nThe \"New York Post\" ran the headline \"Peter Pan or Pervert\", despite minimal information having been disclosed by the police. Two weeks after the allegations were reported, the headline, \"Michael Jackson: A Curtain Closes\" reflected the attitude of most tabloid media. In a piece for \"Hard Copy\", Diane Dimond—a journalist who spent the next 15 years trying to prove Jackson was a pedophile—ran a story stating it had acquired \"new documents in the criminal investigation of Michael Jackson, and they are chilling; they contain the name of child movie actor Macaulay Culkin\". The document stated that Culkin strongly denied being abused by Jackson.\n\nTwo tabloid media bought confidential leaked documents from the LAPD for $20,000. A number of Jackson's former employees—most of whom had worked at Neverland—sold stories alleged prior sexual misconduct on Jackson's part, instead of reporting their claims to police. One couple asked for $100,000, claiming that Jackson had sexually caressed Macaulay Culkin. They were prepared to expand upon this allegation for a fee of $500,000, whereby they would allege that Jackson put his hands down Culkin's pants. When the story broke, Culkin strongly denied the allegation, and did so again in court during Jackson's 2005 trial. A former security guard made various allegations about Jackson, saying he was fired because he \"knew too much\", and alleged that he was ordered by Jackson to destroy a photo of a naked boy. Instead of reporting this to police, he sold the story to \"Hard Copy\" for $150,000. Afterwards, Jackson's maid, Branca Francia, alleged that she \"quit in disgust\" after seeing Jackson in a shower with a child, but did not inform the police. It later emerged that Francia had been fired in 1991, but nevertheless sold her story to \"Hard Copy\" for $20,000.\n\nWhen Jackson left the US to go into drug rehabilitation, the \"Daily Mirror\" (UK) held a \"Spot the Jacko\" contest, offering readers a trip to Disney World if they could correctly predict where he would appear next. A \"Daily Express\" headline read \"Drug Treatment Star Faces Life on the Run\", while a \"News of the World\" headline accused Jackson of being a fugitive. These tabloids also falsely alleged that Jackson had traveled to Europe to have cosmetic surgery that would make him unrecognizable. Geraldo Rivera set up a mock trial, with a jury made up of audience members, even though Jackson had not been charged with a crime.\n\nA civil lawsuit was filed by Jordan Chandler and his parents on September 14, 1993. In late 1993, district attorneys in Santa Barbara and Los Angeles counties both convened grand juries to assess whether criminal charges should be filed against Jackson. By January 1, 1994, $2 million had been spent by prosecution departments in California and the grand juries had questioned 200 witnesses, but Jordan's allegations could not be corroborated. On January 4, 1994, Chandler's attorney, Larry Feldman, filed a motion for the photos from Jackson's December 1993 body search from investigators, saying Jackson's attorneys and the L.A. district attorney had refused to give him copies. A few weeks later, Feldman petitioned the court that he should be allowed access to Jackson's finances over concerns that Jackson's wealth would give him an unfair advantage in court. One adviser to Jackson stated, \"You can take pictures of Michael's dick and he's not gonna like it, but once you start trying to figure out how much money he has, that's where he stops playing around.\" \n\nJackson and his lawyers filed a motion for Superior Court Judge David M. Rothman to postpone the civil case until the criminal investigation was concluded. Feldman filed a counter-motion, saying the delay would hurt Jordan's chances for recovery and make it more difficult to gather evidence. It is legal to postpone a civil lawsuit past the criminal statute of limitations as a lawsuit can still be filed past that date, such as the case of \"Pacers, Inc. v. Superior Court\". Also, the constitutional right to a \"speedy trial\" only applies to criminal cases according to the Sixth Amendment, not civil cases.\n\nOn November 23, Judge Rothman accepted Feldman's motion and set March 21, 1994, as the start date for the civil trial. Rothman ordered Jackson's deposition scheduled before the end of January 1994, but noted he might reconsider if Jackson was indicted on criminal charges. Jackson agreed to be deposed on January 18. His attorneys said he was eager to testify, but also said they might oppose the deposition if criminal charges were filed or were still under consideration on his deposition date. They said if charges were filed, they would want the criminal trial to go first. However, when authorities notified Jackson's lawyers that they expected their investigation to continue at least through February, Jackson's team still failed to win a delay of the civil case. Jackson's lawyers also lost a motion to prevent Feldman from turning over information (e.g. from the civil deposition) to prosecutors pursuing possible criminal charges.\n\nThe concerns about a civil trial during an ongoing criminal investigation, and about the prosecutor's access to the plaintiff's information in the civil trial, stemmed from Jackson's Fifth Amendment rights. As two grand juries had deemed there was insufficient evidence for charges as of January 1, the prosecution might have been able to form the elements of a criminal case around the defense strategy in the civil trial; creating a situation akin to double jeopardy. For instance, prosecutor Tom Sneddon altered fundamental elements of his case in 2004 after evidence undermining the Arvizo family's 2003 allegations appeared after Jackson's initial arraignment. Upon discovery of two taped interviews in which the Arvizo family praised Jackson and denied any abuse, Sneddon introduced a conspiracy charge and claimed they were forced to lie against their will. When Jackson was re-arraigned in April 2004 for the conspiracy charge, the dates of the alleged molestation on the charge sheet had been shifted by almost two weeks. Jackson's lawyer, Mark Geragos, had announced on \"NBC\" in January 2004 that Jackson had a \"concrete, iron-clad alibi\" for the dates on the charge sheet.\n\nOn January 24, 1994, prosecutors announced that they would not bring charges against Chandler for attempted extortion, as Jackson's camp has been slow to report the extortion claim to the police and had tried to negotiate a settlement with Chandler for several weeks. Evan had first made his demand for a financial settlement on August 4, 1993, and the Jackson camp filed extortion charges against Evan and his attorney, Rothman, in late August 1993. After tape recordings supporting the extortion claim were released to the media on August 30, a lawyer for Jackson explained they had not gone to the police earlier because \"It was our hope that this would all go away. We tried to keep it as much in-house as we could.\" \n\nIn the extortion investigation, a search warrant was never sought to search the homes and offices of Chandler and Rothman and no grand jury was convened when both men declined to be interviewed by police. In contrast, the police searched Jackson's residences solely based on Jordan's allegations reported by a psychiatrist with no particular expertise in child sexual abuse. They increased their efforts after no supporting evidence was found in their raids and after questioning almost 30 children and their families, all of whom said Jackson had done nothing wrong. Officers flew to the Philippines to interview two ex-housekeepers who had sold a molestation story to the tabloids but decided it lacked credibility. Several parents also complained to one of Jackson's attorneys of aggressive investigative techniques by the police. For example, they claimed the police frightened their children with lies such as \"We have nude photos of you\" to pressure them into accusing Jackson, and told parents their children had been molested even though their children had denied it.\n\nOn January 25, 1994, the lawsuit was settled out of court, with $15,331,250 to be held in a trust fund for Jordan, $1.5 million for each of his parents, and $5 for the family's lawyer, for a total of approximately $23 million. Another source showed Feldman was to receive $3 million based on a September 1993 retainer, for a total of $21 million. According to a motion passed to Judge Melville in 2004, leading up to the 2005 trial, Chandler was the one who initiated the settlement with Jackson's insurer. \n\nJackson's insurance company \"negotiated and paid the settlement, over the protests of Mr. Jackson and his personal legal counsel\" and was \"the source of the settlement amounts\", as noted in a 2005 memorandum in People v. Jackson. The memorandum also noted that \"an insurance carrier has the right to settle claims covered by insurance where it decides settlement is expedient and the insured may not interfere with nor prevent such settlements\", as established by a number of precedents in California. Defeating the right would involve convincing a court with the power to overrule the precedent that the earlier decision was either wrongly decided or more often, 'clearly' wrong (depending on the criteria of the court) or the court must be convinced to distinguish the case. That is, to make the ruling narrower than that in the precedent due to some difference in facts between the current and precedent case, while still supporting the result reached in the earlier case. \n\nIn 2004, Jackson's attorney Thomas Mesereau in People v. Jackson said: \"People who intended to earn millions of dollars from his record and music promotions did not want negative publicity from these lawsuits interfering with their profits. Michael Jackson now regrets making these payments. These settlements were entered into with one primary condition – that condition was that Mr. Jackson never admitted any wrongdoing. Mr. Jackson always denied doing anything wrong ... Mr. Jackson now realizes the advice he received was wrong.\" Jackson explained why had he had settled: \"I wanted to go on with my life. Too many people had already been hurt. I want to make records. I want to sing. I want to perform again ... It's my talent. My hard work. My life. My decision.\" He also wanted to avoid a \"media circus\".\n\nAlthough some perceive the settlement as an admission of guilt, the settlement agreement specifically stated that Jackson admitted no wrongdoing and no liability and legally, a settlement cannot be used as evidence of guilt in future civil and criminal cases. The settlement payment was \"for alleged personal injuries arising out of claims of negligence and not for claims of intentional or wrong acts of sexual molestation.\" In the settlement, both parties agreed they would not speak about the case details in public but it did not prevent the Chandlers from testifying in a criminal trial or sharing information with authorities in a criminal investigation. The settlement document adamantly states there is no admission of wrongdoing on Jackson's part and no admission of molestation or immodesty and that under no circumstances shall any payment be withheld from the complainants, even if they were to testify against Jackson.\n\nThe Chandlers' lawyer Mr. Feldman explicitly stated \"nobody bought anybody's silence\". Bribery to not testify in a trial is a felony according to California Penal Code 138. Receiving such a bribe is also a felony according to this law. District Attorney Gil Garcetti stated the settlement did not affect criminal prosecution of the molestation allegations, \"The criminal investigation of singer Michael Jackson is ongoing and will not be affected by the announcement of the civil case settlement.\"\n\nJordan Chandler was interviewed after the settlement by detectives seeking evidence of child molestation, but \"no criminal charges were filed as a result of that interview.\" A Santa Barbara County grand jury disbanded on May 2, 1994, without indicting Jackson, while a Los Angeles County grand jury continued to investigate the sexual abuse allegations. After which time the Chandlers stopped co-operating with the criminal investigation around July 6, 1994. The police never pressed criminal charges. Citing a lack of evidence without Jordan's testimony, the state closed its investigation on September 22, 1994. According to the grand juries, the evidence presented by the Santa Barbara police and the LAPD was not convincing enough to indict Jackson or subpoena him, even though grand juries can indict the accused purely on hearsay evidence. According to a 1994 report by Variety, a source in contact with the grand juries stated, \"none of the witnesses so far have offered anything that would directly implicate the singer.\" According to a report in 1994 by Showbiz Today, one of the 1994 grand jurors claimed they \"did not hear any damaging testimony\" during the hearings.\n\nA week after the settlement of the Chandler's lawsuit was announced on January 25, 1994, L.A. District Attorney Gil Garcetti announced he supported amending a law that prohibits forcing people who say they have been sexually assaulted to testify in criminal proceedings. The amendment introduced into the state assembly the week of February 7 would have immediately allowed Garcetti to compel Jordan to testify. Around that time, Santa Barbara police interviewed the 13-year-old son of one of Jackson's former maids (who had told them her son had spent time with Jackson) and then arranged for him to see a therapist after he repeatedly denied being abused. In a deposition, his mother stated when she asked the police about who she could speak to about her concerns about their meetings and phone conversations with her son without her present, they arranged for her and her son to see separate therapists. On April 11, 1994, the grand jury session in Santa Barbara was extended for an additional 90-day term to allow Sneddon to gather more evidence and prosecution sources admitted to being frustrated in their grand jury probe, failing to find direct evidence of the molestation charges. The final grand jury ultimately disbanded without ever returning an indictment against Jackson.\n\nThree years later, Jordan Chandler's alleged account of the relationship was detailed in a book by journalist Victor M. Gutierrez. The book was said to be based on a diary the boy had kept at the time and included details of alleged sexual encounters between Jackson and him. In 1995, Jackson filed a civil suit against Gutierrez for slander; the jury found in Jackson's favor, awarding him $2.7 million in damages. However, that suit was unrelated to the book and the judgement does not serve to refute the allegations contained within. In 1996, Evan Chandler sued Jackson for around $60 million, claiming Jackson had breached an agreement never to discuss the case. In 1999, a court ruled in Jackson's favor and threw out the lawsuit.\n\nBut the 1993 case would be revisited again with the 2003 allegations. There was more than a year between Jackson's 2003 arrest and the beginning of his trial and he was prevented by a gag order from responding to any stories in the media. As in 1993, there were leaked documents e.g. Jordan Chandler's 1993 police statement. The media was again eager to report on the allegations, with a tendency for sensationalism. And allegations sold to tabloid TV shows by disgruntled ex-employees in the 1990s were constantly in the news again. Also similar to 1993, details of the Arvizo family's 2003 allegations were leaked. These stories were mostly reported as allegations rather than facts, but the volume and frequency of stories, combined with Jackson's inability to refute them, had a devastating impact on public opinion of him.\n\nIn a 2005 lecture at Harvard after Jackson's trial, Jackson's attorney Thomas Mesereau said the following about Jordan Chandler: \"The prosecutors tried to get him to show up and he wouldn't. If he had, I had witnesses who were going to come in and say he told them it never happened and that he would never talk to his parents again for what they made him say. It turned out he'd gone into court and got legal emancipation from his parents.\" In 2006, Jordan accused Evan of attacking him with a barbell, choking him and spraying his face with Mace. The charges were later dropped. On November 5, 2009, fourteen weeks after Jackson's death, Evan Chandler was found dead following an apparent suicide.\n\nMusic journalist Charles Thomson noted a continued media bias against Jackson after the Chandler suicide. Thomson said he was contacted by a British tabloid to supply information about the 1993 allegations, only to have them replace his carefully researched information with the common myths he advised them to avoid and that the same misinformation was in every article he read about the suicide. He noted when Jackson's FBI file was released the following month, the contents were portrayed by the media as giving an impression of guilt even though the file strongly supported his innocence. He noted how Gene Simmons' allegations in 2010 about Jackson molesting children received over a hundred times more coverage than his interview with Jackson's long-time guitarist, Jennifer Batten, who rebutted Simmons' claims.\n\nJackson's commercial appeal and public image declined in the wake of the case.\n\nThe album released prior to the allegations was \"Dangerous\". The album stands as one of the world's best-selling records. The album's appeal meant that singles were still being released through 1993 (at the time of the allegations) and Jackson was still traveling the world on his Dangerous World Tour. The last charting single from \"Dangerous\" was the ballad \"Gone Too Soon\", released in December 1993 and dedicated to the memory of Jackson's friend Ryan White, a teenager from Kokomo, Indiana, who came to national attention after being expelled from his school for having HIV/AIDS. A rumored tenth single release of the title track \"Dangerous\" was canceled. The government of Dubai barred Jackson from performing in response to an anonymous pamphlet campaign that attacked him as immoral. After performing 24 shows of the third leg of the Dangerous Tour, Jackson canceled the remainder of the tour to seek treatment for his pain medication addictions.\n\nPepsiCo stopped all promotional activities with Jackson, ending their ten-year partnership. Jackson's fans responded by boycotting the company. Jackson had contracted to create a new horror-themed song and video that would be cross-promoted with the film \"Addams Family Values\". He was unable to finish shooting the video, and his song was dropped from the soundtrack. A brand of his-and-hers fragrances was canceled because of Jackson's drug problems at the time. A spokesman for the marketing group behind the fragrance deal called it \"somewhat of a fiasco\".\n\nHis next studio album was \"HIStory\", released in the summer of 1995. Jackson also produced a special show for cable-network HBO titled \"For One Night Only\", with the show to be recorded in front of a special invited audience at New York City's Beacon Theater on December 8 and 9, 1995 for transmission on HBO on December 10. However, the shows were canceled after Jackson collapsed at the theater on December 6 during rehearsals. Jackson was admitted overnight to Beth Israel Medical Center North. The shows and the HBO special were never rescheduled. The following year, Jackson began the HIStory World Tour. Despite the show's success, Jackson's only concerts in the USA were two shows performed at the Aloha Stadium in Honolulu, Hawaii. Jackson never performed another world tour.\n\nThe allegations also had an effect on the content of Jackson's music: \"HIStory\", which was released shortly after the allegations, \"creates an atmosphere of paranoia,\" according to one writer. Its content focuses on the public struggles Jackson went through just prior to its production. In the songs \"Scream\" and \"Tabloid Junkie\", along with the ballad \"You Are Not Alone\", Jackson directs much of his anger and personal hurt at the media. In the track \"D.S.\", Jackson launches a verbal attack against a character who is often cited to be Tom Sneddon, the District Attorney that requested his strip search. He describes the person as an antisocial white supremacist who wanted to \"get my ass, dead or alive\". Of the song, Sneddon said, \"I have not, shall we say, done him the honor of listening to it, but I’ve been told that it ends with the sound of a gunshot.\" In the introspective ballad \"Stranger in Moscow\", Jackson laments his \"swift and sudden fall from grace\". He completed the video that was originally supposed to accompany \"Addams Family Values\" and released it as \"Ghosts\"; the finished video included a framing story about an eccentric maestro who entertains children and is pursued by a bigoted local official.\n\nJackson's last album, \"Invincible\", was released six years later, in 2001, his longest period between full studio records. Following a conflict between Jackson and his record label, Sony Music stopped promoting the album. \"Invincible\" would go on to be seen as a relative commercial disappointment when compared to Jackson's prior solo material, although it sold 13 million copies worldwide.\n\nAs part of Jackson's contract with Sony, a number of compilations of greatest hits packaged with previously unreleased material were released, including \"Number Ones\" in 2003, the 4-CD/1-DVD box set \"\" in 2004 and double-album \"The Essential Michael Jackson\" in 2005. New agreements between Sony and Michael Jackson saw the release of the singles collection \"\" in 2006, a 25th anniversary edition of \"Thriller\" in 2008 and Jackson's final release before his death – the \"King of Pop\" album celebrating Michael's 50th birthday with tracks voted for by fans.\n\nOn December 18, 2003, Jackson was formally charged with seven counts of child sexual abuse and two counts of administering an intoxicating agent in order to commit a child sexual abuse felony against Gavin Arvizo. Earlier that year, a Granada Television documentary, called \"Living with Michael Jackson\", showed the pop star holding hands and discussing sleeping arrangements with Arvizo. Jackson denied these allegations, saying that the sleepovers were in no way sexual in nature. Sneddon again led the effort to prosecute Jackson. These prosecutions led to complaints that Sneddon was motivated by a \"vendetta\" against Jackson. Evidence to support these claims include Sneddon joking about Jackson's greatest hits album being released on the same day as his arrest and saying, \"Like the sheriff and I really are into that kind of music.\" He then proceeded to call Jackson \"Wacko Jacko\" and shouting \"We got him, we finally got him\" to the media, when he had only just began an investigation and had gathered limited information or evidence.\n\nThe People v. Jackson trial began in Santa Maria, California, on January 31, 2005. During the trial, the judge allowed testimony about past allegations, including the 1993 case, to establish whether the defendant had a propensity to commit certain crimes. However, Jordan Chandler had left the country to avoid testifying. In a lecture at Harvard after the trial, Thomas Mesereau said, \"The prosecutors tried to get him to show up and he wouldn't. If he had, I had witnesses who were going to come in and say he told them it never happened and that he would never talk to his parents again for what they made him say. It turned out he'd gone into court and got legal emancipation from his parents.\" June Chandler testified that she had not spoken to her son in 11 years. At one point in her testimony, she claimed that she could not remember being sued by Jackson (who had counter-sued for extortion) and at another point said that she had never heard of her own attorney. However, she said she never witnessed any molestation.\n\nJackson was found unanimously not guilty of all charges by the jury on June 13, 2005.\n\nOn May 1, 2013, a lawyer for choreographer Wade Robson filed a complaint against the Michael Jackson Estate for \"childhood sexual abuse\". Howard Weitzman, the lawyer for Jackson's estate, called Robson's accusations \"outrageous and pathetic.\"\nRobson appeared on \"The Today Show\" on May 16, 2013, to discuss the allegations. Robson told interviewer Matt Lauer that Jackson was \"a pedophile and a child sexual abuser\" who \"performed sexual acts on me and forced me to perform sexual acts on him\" over a seven-year period, beginning in 1990 when Robson was seven years old when he visited Jackson's Neverland Ranch for the first time. In a 1993 deposition Robson's mother, Joy Robson, said that Jackson had \"special friends\", boys with whom he spent extra time that he replaced each year, and that Wade was Jackson's \"special friend\" in 1990. In August 1993, after the allegations against Jackson were made public, Wade Robson and Jackson's other \"special friend\", Brett Barnes, held a press conference in which they stated that they had slept in Jackson's bed but nothing sexual had occurred. Robson said in the \"Today Show\" interview that his denial of wrongdoing on Jackson's part during the 1993 investigation was a result of Jackson's \"complete manipulation and brainwashing\" of him. Robson alleged that at the time Jackson \"would call me every day and role play and tell me the same sort of things and also tell me then that if anyone ever thought that we did these things, any of these sexual things, that both of us would go to jail for the rest of our lives.\" Robson was also a star witness for Jackson's defense at his 2005 trial. He said that his change of story was provoked by becoming a father and experiencing nervous breakdowns in 2011 and 2012.\n\nRobson filed an amended complaint on July 1, 2013, which stated, \"The long-term psychological consequences of (Jackson’s) threats, sexual trauma and mental manipulation imprisoned (Robson’s) mind and prevented him from filing a timely claim just as effectively as if he had been physically imprisoned.\"\n\nOn June 2, 2014, the trial for Robson's lawsuit against Jackson's estate for 'childhood sexual abuse' began.\n\nThe lawsuit against the Jackson Estate was dismissed May 26, 2015, by a Los Angeles judge who ruled that Robson waited too long to seek legal action. Superior Court Judge Mitchell Beckloff wrote in his decision that Robson could file a lawsuit \"only for a reasonable time period after any violence, intimidation or threatening conduct by the decedent ceases.\" The lawsuit against the Jackson-owned companies was allowed to continue.\n\nWade's trial-date in his lawsuit against MJJ Productions and MJJ Ventures was set for March 2018. Robson's lawyer stated that Jackson \"operated the most sophisticated child sexual abuse procurement and facilitation operation the world has known\", and that while his companies were supposedly \"dedicated to creating and distributing Michael Jackson's music and entertainment, it actually served a dual purpose, and that was locating, producing and enabling his sexual abuse of kids\". The lawyer for Jackson's estate, Howard Weitzman, stated that \"[my] opinion is that summary judgment will be granted in this case and there won’t be any trial, but the court did set a trial date for a year away just in case.\"\n\nOn December 19, 2017, Judge Mitchell Beckloff summarily dismissed the case against MJJ Ventures and MJJ Productions, the two remaining defendants, finding they were not liable for Robson's exposure to Jackson. The ruling did not comment on the credibility of the allegations, and Robson's attorney stated his intention to appeal.\n\nOn August 4, 2014, James Safechuck filed court papers against Jackson's estate which alleged that Jackson abused him after he appeared alongside him in a Pepsi commercial. Howard Weitzman, attorney for the Jackson Estate, stated the whole lawsuit should be scrapped because, \"This is a person who made his claim five years after Michael Jackson has passed away, more than 20 years after the incidents supposedly happened, and who has given sworn testimony that Michael never did anything inappropriate to him\" [in 1993], and stated that this was just an attempt from Safechuck \"to recover money from Jackson's beneficiaries\" that should be rejected.\n\nSafechuck's lawsuit was dismissed on June 28, 2017, due to the statute of limitations having passed.\n\nOn October 18, 2016, an anonymous woman sued Michael Jackson's Estate, MJJ Productions and MJJ Ventures, alleging she had been sexually abused by Jackson when she was 12-15, from 1986-1989 in Jackson's Encino home, hotels, the \"Smooth Criminal\" set, the \"Moonwalker\" movie set, in the back of his limousine, his Neverland Ranch, and an apartment/condo he nicknamed \"The Hideout\". She provided letters, love notes allegedly written by Jackson, multiple gifts apparently given by Jackson, a jacket he supposedly gave to her after an Album photo-shoot, checks given to her from 1990-1993 totaling $920,000 sent from Michael Jackson, MJJ Ventures, and MJJ Productions—coming directly from Jackson's back-accounts, and a 1993 LAPD letter asking her to come in and speak to them -- stating that she could provide information regarding claims of child abuse, regarding their investigation. Her complaint alleges that she never considered her emotional/psychological injuries to be a result of her sexual activities with Jackson until she reflected on those experiences for the first time in September 2016, and that even if she had wanted to she could not possibly come forward earlier because she was threatened with physical harm if she ever told anyone, told that she would get in trouble with law enforcement and go to jail if she did, and that Jackson made her promise not to tell anyone. A lawyer for the businesses dismissed the allegations saying, \"This is yet another attempt to hit the lottery by suing the estate of Michael Jackson more than seven years after Michael's death and close to 30 years after these incidents supposedly occurred. We believe this claim was created from whole cloth and is without any merit. It's also no coincidence that this woman is represented by the same attorneys involved in two other frivolous claims against the estate.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "12686219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12686219", "title": "Acclimatisation society", "text": "Acclimatisation society\n\nAcclimatisation societies were voluntary associations in the 19th and 20th centuries that encouraged the introduction of non-native species in various places around the world with the hope of their acclimatisation and adaptation. The motivation at the time was a sense that introducing these species of plants and animals would enrich the flora and fauna of a region. These societies were born during a period of colonialism when Europeans began to settle in unfamiliar environments, and the movement sought to establish familiar plants and animals (mainly from Europe) in new areas while also bringing exotic and useful foreign plants and animals into the European centres. Today it is widely understood that introducing species can be harmful to native species and their ecosystems; for example, in Australia plants were harmed by rabbits' overgrazing; in North America house sparrows displace and kill native birds; and around the world, salamander populations are today threatened by introduced fungal infections. At the time of acclimatisation societies, however, this was insufficiently understood.\n\nA definition of acclimatisation was attempted by Alfred Russel Wallace in his entry in the 11th edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" (1911). Here Wallace tried to differentiate the idea from other terms like domestication and naturalization. He noted that a domesticated animal could live in environments controlled by humans. Naturalization, he suggested included the process of acclimatization which involved \"gradual adjustment\". The idea, at least in France, was associated with Lamarckism and Wallace noted that there were some like Charles Darwin who denied the possibility of forcing individual animals to adjust. Wallace however pointed out that there was the possibility that there were variations among individuals and that some could have the ability to adapt to new environments.\n\nThe first Acclimatisation society was \"La Societé Zoologique d'Acclimatation\" founded in Paris on 10 May 1854 by Isidore Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire. It was essentially an offshoot of the Paris museum of natural history and the other staff included de Bréau, Antoine César Becquerel and his son Alexandre. Saint-Hilaire believed in the Lamarckian idea that humans and animals could be forced to adapt to new environments. The Paris society established a branch in Algeria as well as the \"Jardin d' Acclimatation\" in Paris in 1861 to showcase not just new animals and plants but also people from other lands. Rewards in the form of medals were offered for anyone in the colonies to establish breeding animals. The rules were that at least six specimens had to be maintained with at least two instances of breeding in captivity. After Saint-Hilaire's death in 1861 the Society was headed by Édouard Drouyn de Lhuys, foreign minister to Napoleon III and many of the functionaries were diplomats who established ties with officers in the colonies both French and foreign. Franco-British as well as Franco-Australian ties were involved in the movements of plants and animals. Australian acacias for instance were introduced in Algeria by the French and by the British in South Africa. François Laporte, naturalist and consul in Melbourne and Ferdinand von Mueller of the Acclimatisation Society of Victoria were involved in the transfer of many plant species out of Australia. In some cases these movements were not direct but via Paris and Kew.\n\nThe British acclimatisation society originated from an idea proposed by the management of \"The Field\" journal. A meeting was held on January 21, 1859, at the London Tavern on Bishopsgate Street. The attendees included Professor Richard Owen at the head of the table and the servings included a large pike, American partridges, a young bean goose and an African eland. At the meeting Mitchell and others suggested that many of these exotic animals could live in the British wilderness. Professor Owen wrote in the newspapers later on the taste of the eland and the need for animal introductions. On June 26, 1860, another meeting was held and the Acclimatisation Society was formally founded in London and a year later the Secretary to the Society, Frank Buckland, a popular naturalist known for his taste in exotic meats, noted the \"success\" of the Society in introducing peafowl, common pheasant, swan, starling and linnet into Australia through the efforts of Edward Wilson. One of the supporters of the Society was Miss Burdett Coutts. Other such societies spread quickly around the world, particularly to European colonies in the Americas, Australia and New Zealand. In many instances they existed both as societies for the study of natural history as well as to improve the success rate of introduced species. In 1850, English sparrows were introduced into America and Eugene Schieffelin introduced starlings in 1890 as part of a plan to introduce all the birds mentioned in Shakespeare.\n\nThe appeal of acclimatisation societies in colonies, particularly Australia and New Zealand, was the belief that the local fauna was in some way deficient or impoverished; there was also an element of nostalgia in colonists who desired to see familiar species. An Australian settler, J. Martin, complained in 1830 that the \"trees retained their leaves and shed their bark instead, the swans were black, the eagles white, the bees were stingless, some mammals had pockets, others laid eggs, it was warmest on the hills...\" It was here that the desire to make the land feel more like England was strongest. The\nAcclimatisation Society of Victoria was established in 1861. Speaking at the Society, George Bennett pointed out how it was important to have such an organisation, citing the example of the Earl of Knowsley who had been conducting successful experiments in private whose results had been lost with his death. A major proponent of importing and exporting trees and plants was Ferdinand von Mueller. Introductions of commercially valuable species or game species were also made. In some instances the results were disastrous, such as the economic and ecological effects of introducing rabbits to Australia or possums to New Zealand. The disastrous effects were rapidly felt and a Rabbit Nuisance Act was passed in 1876 in New Zealand. To make matters worse, the suggestion was made that weasels and stoats could control the rabbits. Despite warnings from Alfred Newton and others, these predators were introduced and Herbert Guthrie-Smith declared it as an \"attempt to correct a blunder by a crime.\"\n\nIn 1893, T.S. Palmer of California wrote on the dangers of animal introduction. In 1906, the editors of the Avicultural Magazine were decidedly against the idea of bird introductions. The emergence of the field of ecology transformed expert and public opinion on introductions and gave way to new rules. Quarantine regulations began to be set up instead. Beginning in New Zealand, some of the acclimatisation societies transformed themselves into fish and game organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27783337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27783337", "title": "Adverse food reaction", "text": "Adverse food reaction\n\nAn adverse food reaction is an adverse response by the body to food or a specific type of food.\n\nThe most common adverse reaction is a food allergy, which is an adverse immune response to either a specific type or a range of food proteins.\n\nHowever, other adverse responses to food are not allergies. These reactions include responses to food such as food intolerance, pharmacological reactions, and toxin-mediated reactions, as well as physical responses, such as choking.\n"}
{"id": "18651470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18651470", "title": "Al-Dustour (Egypt)", "text": "Al-Dustour (Egypt)\n\nAl-Dostor (also Al-Dostour and Al-Dustour) (, Egyptian Arabic: ), is an independent Daily Egyptian opposition newspaper.\n\n\"Al Dustour\" was first published in December 1995 and is published weekly in Arabic. The paper was originally published with a registration in Cyprus in order to get around the restrictive newspaper publication laws in Egypt during the Mubarak era. It was financed by Essam Fahmy Ismail, who chose its original editor in chief, Ibrahim Eissa. In 2010, Essam Fahmy agreed to sell the newspaper to Reda Edouard, a businessman with alleged connections to the ruling regime, who remains at the head of the newspaper's board today. Edouard replaced Eissa with Esam Nabawy. \n\nIt started as a weekly newspaper published on Wednesdays. It later came to be issued both daily and weekly. \"Al-Dostour\"'s popularity grew quickly after its founding. It became known for its colloquial style and wide use of cartoons. The paper published articles on current affairs written by various leading figures of the Muslim Brotherhood.\n\nSince the day of its first issue, \"Al-Dustour\" has been harshly critical of the government, formerly that of the Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak, his family, and the former ruling party, The National Democratic Party (NDP). It was one of Egypt’s top critics of Mubarak’s 30-year rule. It introduced unprecedented cartoons of Mubarak and showed sharp opposition to his son Gamal Mubarak's likely succession to power. \n\nIn 1998, \"Al-Dustour\" published a statement attributed to the al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya militant group in 1998, that threatened the lives of three Christian businessmen. The Egyptian Ministry of Information closed down the paper. It considered the statement unacceptable and a potential cause of sectarian strife. Seven years later, on March 23, 2005, the paper was revived, initially being published every Wednesday, and since 31 March 2007 it has been issued both daily and weekly.\n\nIn 2007, \"Al-Dustour's\" former editor-in-chief, Ibrahim Eissa, was arrested, then freed on bail on 13 September 2007 pending an appellate court decision in a sentence of a year-long prison term and a fine of 20,000 Egyptian Pound (≈ US$ 3,800 at the time). He and three other independent Egyptian newspaper editors, Wael El Abrashy of \"Sawt Al-Umma\", Adel Hammouda of \"Al-Fajr\", and \"Al-Karama\"'s former editor Abdel Halim Kandil, were charged with \"insulting the Egyptian president and publishing false information likely to disturb public order.\"\n\nIn 2008, in a separate case, Eissa was again arrested and sentenced to six months, later reduced to two months in prison, on 26 March 2008, by the Boulak Abo El Ela Court of Misdemeanor for publishing \"false information concerning Mubarak's health harming public security and the country's economy\" due to articles and headlines in \"Al-Dustour\" speculating on the health of the 80-year-old president. Governmental authorities alleged that Eissa's articles caused a withdrawal of foreign investment in the Egyptian economy equivalent to US$ 350 million. Eissa was freed, a second time, on bail of 200 EP (≈ US$ 37 at the time) to hold off on implementation of the verdict until another appeal.\n\nOn 6 October 2008, Mubarak announced that he would pardon Eissa, the first time that such a pardon had been issued in the history of the modern Egyptian press. \"Al-Dustour\" praised the pardon in its pages and asked the president to honor his promise to cancel custodial sentences in cases of publication.\n\nThe paper has continued its opposition role under new President Mohamed Morsi. In September 2012, its former editor-in-chief, Islam Afify, was charged by a Cairo court with \"defaming the president\" and \"harming the public interest with inflammatory articles'\" and his travel privileges were revoked. \"Al-Dustour\" frequently criticized the Muslim Brotherhood, accusing it of intentions to make Egypt an Islamic state. Afify was jailed temporarily but later released due to the new president's decision to end pretrial detention for journalists.\n\nAt the time of Mubarak's departure (February 2011), \"Al-Dostour\" was the fifth largest daily newspaper in Egypt, with a daily edition selling 45,000 and weekly edition selling 85,000 copies.\n\nOn 28 March 2014 the 22-year-old photograph and journalist of the newspaper Mayada Ashraf was killed among three others, in the clashes between the demonstrators and the security forces in the suburb of Ain Shams.\n\n"}
{"id": "16222576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16222576", "title": "Aleksandar Josipović", "text": "Aleksandar Josipović\n\nAleksandar Josipović (born 15 January 1981) is a marketing and communication expert, an author and a former dancing champion.\n\nAleksandar was born on 15 January in 1981. in Lazarevac, former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. His dancing career starts at age of 9, and during his career he won 9 national championships in ballroom dancing, he was a finalist in the Golden World Cup(England) and a semifinalist in the World Cup(Hungary). He has danced and performed for many royal families, as well as for some countries presidents. Aleksandar is one of the most successful of dancers but also of the pedagogues in the world that come from Yugoslavia. He is related with Anton Josipović, an Olympic boxing champion (Los Angeles 1984) and with Ivo Josipović, a Croatian composer, University professor and ex president. He holds French and Serbian citizenship.\n\n\nAlong with his dancing career, Aleksandar has been working as a consultant and a marketing manager since 2002. He worked on projects in many fields such as media, fashion, show business, hosting, production, culture and education across France, Serbia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Hercegovina, the Netherlands, Finland, United States, Spain, Letonia, Russia, Italy, Belgium, and Austria.\n\nDuring the period from 2013-2015, he was appointed as the director of Professional Department and Training Process at National Foundation for Dance and has organized a number of international dancing seminars located in Serbia.\n\nAfter having spent 11 years in dancing club in Lazarevac, in 2001. he receives an invitation to dance in China, in the French cabaret show programme called Paris Paradis. During the next year and with the support of a choreographer Clodet Wolker, he soon began to gather information on Moulin Rouge audition. He is accepted in famous cabaret after a three-hour audition and he had been performing as a soloist there for a decade. He is the only man from Serbia that has ever played on Moulin Rouge stage.\n\nHe performed as an MC(Master of Ceremonies) on Eurovision Song Contest 2008.\n\nHe was one of the judges in a show programme 'Dancing with the Stars' \n\nLiving in Dubai since 2015. Aleksandar has been a very successful marketing director and a consultant.\n\nKnown as the author of numerous works in famous European lifestyle magazines, he is also an author of four books of which some are under the auspices of UNESCO, such as the first book in Serbia on topic of dancing pedagogy called, 'Let's dance - new methods in dancing pedagogy, basics of dancing 'Are you up for a dance?' and 'Life's a game, so play smart'. He gave all the income from publishing his fourth book 'Secret body language' for humanitarian cause for people who were imperilled due to floods that have occurred across Serbia and Bosnia in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "51318568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51318568", "title": "Algeria at the 1991 Mediterranean Games", "text": "Algeria at the 1991 Mediterranean Games\n\nAlgeria (ALG) competed at the 1991 Mediterranean Games in Athens, Greece.\n\n"}
{"id": "10114404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10114404", "title": "Anbasa ibn Suhaym al-Kalbi", "text": "Anbasa ibn Suhaym al-Kalbi\n\nʿAnbasa ibn Suḥaym al-Kalbi () was the Muslim wali (governor) of al-Andalus, from 721 to 726.\n\nImmediately after his appointment, Anbasa doubled taxes on Christians; however, it is thought that this increase did not affect most of the recently conquered estates and towns, subdued by treaty on very specific conditions (taxes, land ownership, etc.), but lands under direct Arab rule and new towns being conquered in Septimania.\n\nCoincidentally, a dynastic struggle arose among Muslims in the Middle East. It was sparked by the death of Caliph Yazid II and the succession of his brother, Hisham ibn Abd al-Malik in 724. On this account, Anbasa tried to please the demands imposed by the Caliph to further tax exaction on non-Muslims, with attempts being made to enforce it on non-Arab Muslims too; there was a popular rebellion in Egypt in 725 for increase in taxation. On the other hand, this more rigorous approach may have provided legal shelter and security to ownership in al-Andalus.\n\nThese actions caused displeasure, scattered acts of disobedience, as well as some open revolts. During his tenure in office, Pelagius of Asturias, defied the Umayyad attempt to extract taxes in the mountains of Asturias, where he gathered a band of rebellious followers. An Umayyad patrol was sent to search for Pelagius and his men, and it was ambushed at the Battle of Covadonga at great loss of life according to heavily mythical Christian sources, a skirmish according to later Muslim chroniclers, who showed little concern for the episode; The \"Mozarabic Chronicle\" of 754, a Christian and only almost contemporary account of the major events taking place in Hispania doesn't mention it. In retrospect, these events are viewed by some as the beginning of the Reconquista, an effort by Christian kingdoms to wrest control of Hispania from the Muslims.\n\nFollowing the major Ummayyad defeat in Toulouse (721) resulting in Al-Samh ibn Malik al-Khawlani's death, Anbasa dispatched several military expeditions into Septimania, and managed to capture the Visigothic town of Carcassonne in 724 (or 725), as well as Nîmes, the latter without resistance. He went on to lead an expedition to the Kingdom of Burgundy, a Frankish territory, as far north as Autun. However, he died of natural causes in this campaign. Meanwhile, a flow of refugees found shelter in southern Aquitaine and Provence. He was succeeded as wali by Udrra ben Abd Allah al-Fihrí, who after a few months, was replaced by Yahya ibn Salama al-Kalbi. Yahya denounced the injustices of the policies of Anbasa, especially with respect to the collection of taxes and the confiscation of property.\n\n"}
{"id": "38772748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38772748", "title": "Arshak II (opera)", "text": "Arshak II (opera)\n\nArshak II is the first Armenian classical opera, written by Dikran Tchouhadjian and T. Terzian in 1868. Its libretto, a lyrical tragedy in Armenian and Italian, is based on historical reports about King Arsaces II (Arshak II), written by Movses Khorenatsi and Pavstos Buzand. \n\n\"Arshak II\" is the first “Armenian grand opera” with choruses and ballets. It was partially staged in 1873, assembled on November 29, 1945 at the Armenian Opera Theater in Yerevan and was awarded by the USSR State Prize in 1946. \"Arshak II\" is a \"gem\" of Armenian musical culture. In 2001, it was staged at the San Francisco Opera. Pavel Lisitsian, Mihran Yerkat, Tigran Levonyan were among the performers of Arshak's role.\n\n"}
{"id": "2798426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2798426", "title": "Auto Focus", "text": "Auto Focus\n\nAuto Focus is a 2002 American biographical film directed by Paul Schrader, starring Greg Kinnear and Willem Dafoe. The screenplay by Michael Gerbosi is based on Robert Graysmith's book \"The Murder of Bob Crane\" (1993).\n\n\"Auto Focus\" tells a dramatized story of actor Bob Crane, an affable radio show host and amateur drummer who found success on \"Hogan's Heroes\", a popular television sitcom, and his dramatic descent into the underbelly of Hollywood after the series was cancelled, and after forming a friendship with John Henry Carpenter.\n\nAs of today, Crane's murder remains unsolved. Although Carpenter was tried and acquitted of the crime, he remained the subject of suspicion even after his death in 1998.\n\nDisc-jockey-turned-actor Bob Crane develops a secret personal life, focusing on his relationship with John Henry Carpenter, an electronics expert involved with the nascent home video market. Encouraged by Carpenter and enabled by his expertise, Crane—a church-going, clean-cut family man—becomes a sex addict obsessed with women and with recording his encounters using video and photographic equipment, usually with Carpenter participating.\n\nAs years pass, the relationship between Crane and Carpenter unravels in a dangerous way. Crane is divorced by two wives, first Anne and then Patty, a former co-star from his hit television series \"Hogan's Heroes\". After the show goes off the air, Crane struggles to find work while dealing with money troubles. By the time Walt Disney Productions hires him for the leading role in a family movie, his reputation for being obsessed by sex and pornography starts to jeopardize his image.\n\nConfined to doing dinner theater in mid-sized cities, Crane's attempts to distance himself from Carpenter fail as their sexual escapades continue. Carpenter soon becomes \"my only friend,\" but after a final falling-out between them in Scottsdale, Arizona, someone bludgeons Crane to death inside a motel room. Carpenter is tried for the murder, but not until many years later, when he is acquitted. Crane's murder remains unsolved.\n\n\nThe film premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival and was shown at the San Sebastián Film Festival, the Helsinki International Film Festival, the Chicago International Film Festival, the New Orleans Film Festival, and the Bergen International Film Festival before going into limited release on eleven screens in the US, earning $123,761 on its opening weekend. It grossed $2,063,196 in the US and $641,755 in foreign markets for a total worldwide box office of $2,704,951.\n\nThe DVD release includes a 50-minute documentary, \"Murder in Scottsdale,\" which delves into the initial murder investigation and the reopening of the case some 15 years later.\n\nThe DVD also features several audio commentary tracks. Greg Kinnear and Willem Dafoe can be heard joking about how the stylist made up Kinnear’s hair to resemble Bob Crane's. A quick online search for photos of the real Bob Crane reveals that, while taking pains to match Crane's hair color and thickness as Kinnear noted, the stylist parted his hair on the wrong side.\n\nThe film met with a largely positive reception from critics. A.O. Scott of \"The New York Times\" said the film \"gets to you like a low-grade fever, a malaise with no known antidote. When it was over, I wasn't sure if I needed a drink, a shower or a lifelong vow of chastity ... there is [a] severe, powerful moralism lurking beneath the film's dispassionate matter-of-factness. Mr. Schrader is indifferent to the sinner, but he cannot contain his loathing of the sin, which is not so much sex as the fascination with images ... To argue that images can corrupt the flesh and hollow out the soul is, for a filmmaker, an obviously contradictory exercise, but not necessarily a hypocritical one. There is plenty of nudity in \"Auto Focus,\" but you can always glimpse the abyss behind the undulating bodies, and the director leads you from easy titillation to suffocating dread, pausing only briefly and cautiously to consider the possibility of pleasure.\"\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film four stars calling it \"a hypnotic portrait ... pitch-perfect in its decor, music, clothes, cars, language and values ... Greg Kinnear gives a creepy, brilliant performance as a man lacking in all insight ... Crane was not a complex man, but that should not blind us to the subtlety and complexity of Kinnear's performance.\"\n\nEdward Guthmann of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" called it \"a compelling, sympathetic portrait ... Kinnear undercuts the seaminess of the Crane story, and shows us a man with more dimension and complexity than his behavior might suggest.\"\n\nPeter Travers of \"Rolling Stone\" awarded it 3½ out of 4 stars and added, \"Schrader, the writer of \"Taxi Driver\" and the director of \"American Gigolo\", is a poet of male sexual pathology. Shot through with profane laughs and stinging drama, \"Auto Focus\" ranks with his best films.\"\n\nTodd McCarthy of \"Variety\" called it \"one of director Paul Schrader's best films, and like \"Boogie Nights\" ranks as a shrewd exposé of recent Hollywood's slimy underside ... Schrader directs with a very smooth hand, providing a good-natured and frequently amusing spin to eventually grim material that aptly reflects the protagonist's almost unfailing good humor ... Pic overall has an excellent L.A. period feel without getting elaborate about it, and musical contributions by Angelo Badalamenti and a host of pop tunes are tops.\"\n\nOn review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 71% based on 161 reviews, and an average rating of 6.6/10. The website's critical consensus originally read, \"Kinnear and Dafoe help make this downward spiral of one man's life a compelling watch.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 66 out of 100, based on 36 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nBob Crane's son, Scotty, bitterly attacked the film as being inaccurate. In an October 2002 piece he wrote on the movie, Scotty said that his father was not a regular church-goer and had only been to church three times in the last dozen years of his life, including his own funeral. There is no evidence that Crane engaged in S&M, and director Paul Schrader told Scotty that the S&M scene was based on Schrader's own personal experience. Scotty claims that his father and John Carpenter did not become close friends who socialized together until 1975, and that Crane was a sex addict long before he became a star, recording his sexual encounters at least as early as 1956.\n\nScotty and his mother had shopped a rival script for a Bob Crane movie biography. The spec script, alternately titled \"F-Stop\" and \"Take Off Your Clothes and Smile\", was written up in \"Variety\" by venerable columnist Army Archerd, but after \"Auto-Focus\" was announced, interest in Scotty's script ceased.\n\nPaul Schrader was nominated for the Golden Seashell at the San Sebastián International Film Festival. Willem Dafoe was nominated for Best Supporting Actor by the Chicago Film Critics Association but lost to Tim Robbins for \"Mystic River\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3856078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3856078", "title": "Black July", "text": "Black July\n\nBlack July (; \"Kalu Juliya\") is the common name used to refer to the anti-Tamil pogrom and riots in Sri Lanka during July 1983. The riots began as a \"response\" to a deadly ambush on 23 July 1983 by the LTTE (Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam), one of the many Tamil militant group of that time. The LTTE had killed 13 Sri Lanka Army soldiers in the ambush. As a reaction, beginning in the capital Colombo on the night of 24 July 1983, anti-Tamil pogroms spread to other parts of the country. Over seven days, mobs, mainly Sinhalese, attacked Tamil targets, burning, looting, and killing. Estimates of the death toll range between 400 and 3,000. 8,000 homes and 5,000 shops were destroyed. 150,000 people were made homeless. The economic cost of the riots was $300 million. A wave of Sri Lankan Tamils fled to other countries in the ensuing years and many thousands of Tamil youths joined militant groups.\n\nBlack July is generally seen as the start of full-scale Sri Lankan Civil War between the Tamil militants and the government of Sri Lanka. July has become a time of remembrance for the Sri Lankan Tamil diaspora community around the world.\n\nDuring the colonial period, many Sri Lankan Tamils, particularly those from the Jaffna peninsula, took advantage of educational facilities established by missionaries. They were also benefited by the British policy of divide and rule, which placed minorities in positions of power in colonies and soon dominated the civil service and other professions. When Sri Lanka became independent (Dominion status)in 1948, a majority of government jobs were held by Tamils, who were a minority of the country's population. The elected leaders saw this as the result of a British stratagem to control the majority Sinhalese, and they deemed it a situation that needed correction.\n\nIn 1956 the Official Language Act, commonly known as the Sinhala Only Act, was introduced. Up until that time English, spoken by only five percent of the population, had been the sole official language.\" The use of Sinhala, spoken by 75 percent, and Tamil, spoken by 25 percent, had been severely restricted during British colonial times. This was reversed by the new Sinhala government, by replacing English with Sinhala as the official language. Protests against the Sinhala Only policy by Tamils and by the leftist parties were met with mob violence that eventually snowballed into the riots of 1958. Political parties and groups representing Tamilain Sri Lankans felt that the implementation of the Sinhala Only Act deprived the Tamil populations in the north and east of the country of their right to fully integrate into government institutions. They saw this as an injustice brought upon this ethnic minority.\n\nIn 1958, the Tamil political leadership acquiesced to a formula of Sinhala as the official language, but with the \"reasonable use of Tamil\". Only the leftist parties opposed this, holding out for parity of status between the two languages. However, after the Tamil people gave an overwhelming mandate to the Tamil nationalist Illankai Tamil Arasu Kachchi (Federal Party), which had agreed to a subordinate status for the Tamil language, the leftist parties eventually abandoned parity of status.\n\nThroughout the 1960s, protests and state repression against these protests created further animosity. In 1972, the policy of standardisation that affected Tamils' entry into universities strained the already tenuous political relationship between the elites of the Tamil and Sinhalese communities. The quota entitlement in political representation became another cause for contention between Sinhala and Tamil people. There was also a series of ethnic riots in 1977 following the United National Party's (UNP) coming to power. In 1981, the renowned public library in Jaffna was burnt down by a violent mob. The Jaffna Library was well known at the time as a nexus of Tamil activity, with various Tamil groups vying for control. Until 1983, there were similar incidents of low level violence between the government and the mushrooming Tamil militant groups. There were many murders, disappearances, and cases of torture attributed to both sides.\n\nOn 23 July 1983 at around 11:30 pm, the rebel Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (the Tamil Tigers or the LTTE) ambushed the Four Four Bravo military patrol in Thirunelveli near Jaffna in northern Sri Lanka. A road-side bomb was detonated beneath the jeep that was leading the convoy, injuring at least two soldiers onboard. Soldiers traveling in a truck behind the jeep dismounted to help their colleagues. They were ambushed by a group of Tamil Tiger fighters who fired at them with automatic weapons and hurled grenades at them. In the ensuing clashes, one officer and twelve soldiers were killed immediately, and two more were fatally wounded. The total death toll was fifteen. A number of the rebels were also killed. Kittu, a regional commander of the LTTE later admitted to planning and carrying out the ambush. This attack has been described as a retaliation for the killing of one of the LTTE's founding members, Charles Anthony, by Sri Lankan forces and as a retaliation for the abduction and rape of some Tamil school girls by the government forces.\n\nThe Army, including its Commander Tissa Weeratunga, didn't want the soldiers' funerals to be held in Jaffna. And because of possible disturbances at multiple locations, they didn't want to hand the bodies over to their families. So the decision was made at the highest level to hold the funeral, with full military honours, at Colombo's General Cemetery at Kanatte. Prime Minister Ranasinghe Premadasa, fearing violence, was against holding the funeral in Colombo, but President J. R. Jayewardene overruled him. The President, the Prime Minister, and the rest of the Cabinet were to attend the funeral, which was to take place at 5pm on 24 July. This plan was against the standard procedure of burying the fallen soldiers in their home villages.\n\nPreparations were made for the funeral, and the riot squad at Borella Police Station was put on stand-by. But by 5pm the bodies hadn't arrived in Colombo. The soldiers' families wanted the bodies handed over to them to be buried according to tradition. Due to procedural issues, the bodies were still at Palali Army Camp near Jaffna. The bodies were eventually moved from Palali Air Force Base shortly after 6pm. Back at Colombo General Cemetery, tensions were growing because of the delay, and a large crowd, including around 3,000 people from the Wanathamulla slum, started gathering at the cemetery, angered by news of the ambush, which was magnified by wild rumour. The Avro plane which was carrying the bodies arrived at Ratmalana Airport at 7:20 p.m. by which time the crowd at the cemetery had swollen to more than 8,000. The crowd wanted the bodies to be handed over to the families rather than to be buried at the cemetery. Violence broke out between the crowd and police, and the riot squad was summoned. The riot squad fired tear gas at the crowd and baton-charged them before handing control of the situation over to the Army. The President then decided to cancel the military funeral and hand the bodies over to the families. The vehicles carrying the bodies had been driven away from Ratmalana at 8:30 p.m. and the drivers were heading to the cemetery. But they were diverted to Army Headquarters so that they could be handed over to the families. The crowd at the cemetery was informed of the President's decision at around 10pm. The crowd left the cemetery in a restive mood.\n\nA section of the crowd marched up D. S. Senanayake Mawatha to nearby Borella, where they destroyed Tamil-owned Nagalingam Stores. The mob, which by that time numbered around 10,000, attacked, looted, and set fire to any building near Borella junction that had a Tamil connection, including Borella Flats and the Tamil Union Cricket and Athletic Club. Then houses belonging to Tamils in the neighbourhood were targeted. The police fired tear gas at the crowd, but after exhausting all of their stock, they were forced to fire rifles into the air. The crowd then dispersed in the direction of Dematagoda, Maradana, Narahenpita, Grandpass and Thimbirigasyaya, where they attacked and looted Tamil properties and set them on fire. Members of underworld criminal gangs then joined in.\n\nPresident Jayewardene met the country's Security Council at the President's House, Colombo at 9:30 a.m. on 25 July. A hundred yards away the Bristol building, the Tamil-owned Ambal Cafe, was ablaze. Also close by on York Street, the Tamil-owned clothier Sarathas was ablaze as well. Soon all the Tamil-owned shops on Baillie Street opposite the President's House were on fire. Every Tamil-owned business in the Fort area was on fire by the time the Security Council meeting finished. The President ordered a curfew in Colombo from 6pm. The mob moved on to Olcott Mawatha, where they set fire to the Tamil-owned thosai boutique Ananda Bhawan, oilman store Rajeswari Stores, and Ajantha Hotel.\n\nThe rioting had spread to the slums of Canal Bank, Grandpass, Hattewatte, Kirilapone, Kotahena, Maradana, Modera, Mutwal, Narahenpita, Slave Island, and Wanathamulla by 10am. Mobs armed with crow bars and kitchen knives roamed the streets, attacking and killing Tamils. Wellawatte and Dehiwala, which contained the largest number of Tamils in Colombo, were the next target of the mob. Homes and shops were attacked, looted, and destroyed. Tamil shops on Main Street and Bo Tree Junction were also attacked. The riots then spread to the middle class residential areas of Anderson Flats, Elvitigala Flats, Torrington Flats, and Thimbirigasyaya. Tamil targets in the exclusive Cinnamon Gardens were also attacked as were those in the suburbs of Kadawatha, Kelaniya, Nugegoda and Ratmalana. The residence of the Indian High Commissioner was also attacked and ransacked. By lunchtime, virtually the entire city was on fire. The curfew was brought forward to 4:00 p.m. and then to 2:00 p.m., and it was extended to Gampaha District due to the violence spreading as far as Negombo. In Kalutara the TKVS Stores were set on fire. The owner jumped out of an upstairs window, but the mob threw him back into the fire. The curfew was extended to Kalutara District.\n\nThe police were unwilling, or unable, to enforce the curfew. The army was then called in to assist the police.\n\nThe rioters were then becoming organised, using voter registration lists to target Tamils. The possession of electoral lists by the mobs, which enabled them to identify Tamil homes and property, implied prior organization and cooperation by elements of the government. As President Jayewardene would later admit in a statement, \"a pattern of organization and planning has been noticed in the rioting and looting that took place.\" Eighty-one out of the 92 Tamil-owned flats at Soysa Flats were attacked, looted, and set on fire. The mob attacked the industrial area of Ratmalana, which contained a number of Tamil-owned factories. Jetro Garments and Tata Garments on Galle Road were completely gutted. Other factories attacked included Ponds, S-Lon, Reeves Garments, Hydo Garments, Hyluck Garments, AGM Garments, Manhattan Garments, Ploy Peck, Berec and Mascons Asbestos. Indian-owned factories such as Kundanmals, Oxford, and Bakson Garments were \"not\" attacked, giving credence to the suggestion that the mob was deliberately going after Sri Lankan Tamil targets. Seventeen factories were destroyed in Ratmalana. Capital Maharaja, a Tamil-owned company, is one of Sri Lanka's largest conglomerates. Six of their factories in Ratmalana, their headquarters in Bankshall Street, and their Hettiaratchi were destroyed. The mob ended the day by setting fire to Tilly's Beach Hotel in Mount Lavinia.\n\nOne of the most notorious incidents of the rioting took place at the Welikada Prison on 25 July. Thirty-seven Tamil prisoners, most of them detained under the Prevention of Terrorism Act, were killed by Sinhalese prisoners, using knives and clubs. Survivors claimed that prison officers allowed their keys to fall into the hands of Sinhalese prisoners. But at the subsequent inquest, prison officers claimed that the keys had been stolen from them.\n\nOutside of the Western Province, there was violence in Galle, Kegalle, Trincomalee and Vavuniya on 25 July.\n\nThe mobs were equipped with voter registration lists. There was burning and attacking mainly of Tamil residences and businesses. And army and government officials were late in being deployed to control the mob. All of this gave credence to the idea that it had been an organised attack with support at the government level. While a number of Tamils fled the city, many Sinhalese and Muslims saved the lives and properties of Tamils despite the activities of the gangs. Many Tamils were sheltered in government buildings, temples as well as Sinhalese and Muslim houses in the following days.\n\nThe mob attacks continued in Wellawatte and Dehiwala on 26 July. There were 53 houses on Ratnakara Road. The 24 Tamil owned/occupied houses were burnt. Three houses were owned by Sinhalese but were rented by Tamils. The mob removed the property from these three houses out to the road and burnt it. The three houses were not burnt down, neither were the 26 Sinhalese owned/occupied houses. In many parts of the city, the Army merely looked on as property was destroyed and people were killed.\n\nThe violence spread to the country's second largest city, Kandy, on 26 July. By 2:45 p.m. Delta Pharmacy on Peradeniya Road was on fire. Soon afterward a Tamil-owned shop near the Laksala building was set on fire, and the violence spread to Castle Street and Colombo Street. The police managed to get control of the situation, but an hour later a mob armed with petrol cans and Molotov cocktails started attacking Tamil shops on Castle Street, Colombo Street, King's Street, and Trincomalee Street. The mob then moved on to nearby Gampola. A curfew was imposed in Kandy District on the evening of 26 July.\n\nIn Trincomalee, false rumours started spreading that the LTTE had captured Jaffna, that the Karainagar Naval Base had been destroyed, and that the Naga Vihare had been desecrated. Sailors based at Trincomalee Naval Base went on a rampage, attacking Central Road, Dockyard Road, Main Street, and North Coast Road. The sailors started 170 fires before returning to their base. The Sivan Hindu temple on Thirugnasambandan Road had also been attacked.\n\nThe curfew was extended nationwide on 26 July as a precautionary measure. There were more outbreaks of violence and looting against Tamils in areas where various ethnic groups coexisted . By the evening of the 26 July the mob violence began to slacken off as police and army units patrolled the streets in large numbers and began to take action against the rioters. The soldiers killed in the Thirunelveli ambush were quietly buried during the night curfew.\n\nIn the Central Province, the violence spread to Nawalapitiya and Hatton. Badulla, the largest city in neighbouring Uva Province, had so far been peaceful. But around 10:30 a.m. on 27 July, a Tamil-owned motorcycle was set on fire in front of the clock tower in Badulla. Around midday an organised mob went through the city's bazaar area, setting shops on fire. The rioting then spread to residential areas, and the homes of many Tamils were burnt down. The mob then left the city in vans and buses that they had stolen and headed for Bandarawela, Hali-Ela, and Welimada, where they continued to set properties on fire. The riot had spread to Lunugala by nightfall.\n\nThe daytime curfew in Colombo was lifted on 27 July, and the day began in relative calm. But then at Fort Railway Station, a train heading for Jaffna was stopped as it was pulling out of Platform One after cartridges were found on the track. Sinhalese passengers on the train started attacking Tamil passengers, killing twelve. Some Tamils were burnt alive on the railway tracks.\n\nFollowing the riot at Welikada prison on 25 July, Tamil prisoners had been moved from the Chapel Ward to the Youth Offenders Building. On the evening of 27 July, Sinhalese prisoners overpowered the guards, armed themselves with axes and firewood, and attacked the Tamil prisoners in the Youth Offenders Building. Fifteen Tamil prisoners were killed. Two Tamil prisoners and a third prisoner were killed during a riot at Jaffna prison on the same day.\n\nBadulla was still on fire on 28 July, and the rioting spread from Lunugala to Passara. There was also rioting in Nuwara Eliya and Chilaw. But the violence had subsided in Colombo, Kandy, and Trincomalee.\n\nPresident Jayewardene and his cabinet met in an emergency session on 28 July. Jayewardene then made a primetime televised address in which he appealed for an end to the violence. Jayewardene blamed the violence on \"the deep ill feeling and suspicion that has grown between the Sinhalese and the Tamil people\", caused by the calls for an independent Tamil state which began in 1976. The Tamil United Liberation Front, the largest political party representing the Tamils, had passed the Vaddukoddai Resolution in 1976. He blamed the violence committed by the Tamil militants for the way \"the Sinhalese people themselves have reacted\". Jayewardene vowed that the \"Sinhalese people will never agree to the division of a country which has been a united nation for 2,500 years [sic]\" and announced that the government would \"accede to the clamour...of the Sinhalese people\" and ban any party which sought to divide the nation.\n\nIndian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi called Jayewardene on 28 July and informed him of the impact the riots had had in India. She requested that Jayewardene receive Minister of External Affairs P. V. Narasimha Rao as her special envoy. Jayewardene accepted, and a few hours later Rao arrived in Sri Lanka.\n\nColombo was still calm on 29 July. Tamil residents were visiting their friends and relatives who had taken refuge in the many refugee camps in the city. But at around 10:30 a.m. two Sinhalese youths were shot on Gas Works Street. A large crowd gathered at the scene, and soon rumours started circling that the youths had been shot by Tamil Tigers in the Adam Ali building. The building was surrounded by the army, navy, and police who proceeded to fire at the building using submachine guns and semi-automatic rifles. A helicopter also fired at the building with a machine gun. The security forces stormed the building but found no Tamil Tigers, weapons, or ammunitions inside. Rumours began to spread around Colombo that the army was engaged in a battle with the Tamil Tigers. Panicking workers began to flee in any mode of transport they could find. Mobs started gathering in the streets, armed with axes, bricks, crow bars, iron rods, kitchen knives, and stones, ready to fight the Tigers. The Tigers never came, so the mobs turned their attention to the fleeing workers. Vehicles were stopped and searched for Tamils. Any Tamil they found was attacked and set on fire. A Tamil was burnt alive on Kirula Road. Eleven Tamils were burnt alive on Attidiya Road. The police found an abandoned van on the same road which contained the butchered bodies of two Tamils and three Muslims. Police shot dead 15 rioters. At 2pm on 29 July, a curfew came into force which lasted until 5am on Monday 1 August.\n\nBadulla, Kandy, and Trincomalee were calm on 29 July but there was violence in Nuwara Eliya where around midday. The Tamil-owned Ganesan and Sivalingam stores were attacked and set on fire. The violence then spread to Bazaar Street and Lawson Road. Violence was also reported in Kegalle District and Matara District. In Kegalle District the violence spread from Dehiowita to Deraniyagala to Avissawella. In Matara District the worst affected areas were Deniyaya and Morawake. There was violence in Chilaw as well.\n\nIndian External Affairs Minister Rao held discussions with President Jayewardene and Foreign Minister A. C. S. Hameed before visiting Kandy by helicopter.\n\nViolence was reported in Nuwara Eliya, Kandapola, Hawa Eliya, and Matale on 30 July. The rest of the country was quiet. That night the government banned three left-wing political parties, Communist Party of Sri Lanka, Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna, and Nava Sama Samaja Party, blaming them for inciting the riots.\n\nThere had been a growing tension between the Sinhala and Tamil communities of Sri Lanka even before the actual riots began. And with the formation of rebel Tamil groups, there was a rising anti-Tamil sentiment among the Sinhalese majority. Although the violence began as a spontaneous reaction by Sinhalese mobs who had gathered at the Colombo cemetery where the bodies of the soldiers were to be buried, they were later joined by elements associated with Sinhalese political activists actively involved in the organisation of the riots. Also, during the early stages of riots, it is alleged that the local police and military stood by doing nothing. Numerous eyewitness accounts suggest that \"in many places police and even military personnel joined the rioters.\" However, by 26 July the police and army were out in the streets taking action against the mobs, and most of the violence died out. The government extended the curfew to prevent violence from spreading to other parts of the country. A brief span of rioting broke out on 29 July when police shot and killed 15 Sinhalese looters.\n\nThe Sri Lankan government was accused from various corners of being complicit during the pogrom and of supporting and encouraging the Sinhalese mobs. President Jayewardene has been accused of failing to condemn the violence or to express sympathy to the survivors, blaming Tamils for bringing it upon themselves, failing to take any meaningful measures to punish the perpetrators of the violence, and praising the mobs as heroes of the Sinhalese people. In an interview to the Daily Telegraph on July 11, 1983, about two weeks prior to the riots, Jayewardene expressed the state's complicity in the violence against the Tamils:\n\nI am not worried about the opinion of the Jaffna (Tamil) people now. Now we cannot think of them. Not about their lives or of their opinion about us. The more you put pressure in the north, the happier the Sinhala people will be here... really, if I starve the Tamils, Sinhala people will be happy... .\n\nEven though some Tamil politicians accused the ruling UNP of not taking appropriate actions to prevent the riots, according to the government it took vital counter measures from the very early stages to combat rioters and to safeguard the Tamil community. Curfew was enforced immediately after the riots broke out. The attacks, according to the government, were carefully organised, and government properties such as trains, buildings and buses were the initial targets. Prime Minister Premadasa formed a committee to organise shelter and feeding for an estimated 20,000 homeless Tamils in Colombo. These temporary shelters were situated at five school buildings and an aircraft hangar. After the number of refugees increased to around 50,000, the government, with help from India, took measures to send Tamils north by way of ships.\n\nThe rioters initially targeted government properties. Just as many times before (and since), most of the people who gathered at the Borella Kanatta, where the dead army soldiers were supposed to be buried, directed their anger towards the government. Later it developed into full-scale violence, targeting Tamil citizens and their properties.\n\nThe murder, looting, and general destruction of property was well organised. And mobs armed with petrol were seen stopping passing motorists at critical street junctions. After ascertaining the ethnic identity of the driver and passengers, they set alight the vehicles, with the drivers and passengers trapped inside.\n\nMobs were also seen stopping buses to identify Tamil passengers, who were subsequently knifed, clubbed to death, or burned alive. One Norwegian tourist saw a mob set fire to a minibus with 20 people inside, killing them all. According to an eyewitness testimony of a victim who survived the riots, Buddhist monks were among the rioters.\n\nThe \"Tamil Guardian\" lists more eyewitness testimonies from various sources:\n\nLondon's \"Daily Telegraph\" (July 26) wrote: \n\nIn his book, \"The Tragedy of Sri Lanka\", William McGowan wrote:\n\nThe London \"Daily Express\" (29 July) wrote: \n\n\"The Times\" of London reported on 5 August that \"...Army personnel actively encouraged arson and the looting of Tamil business establishments and homes in Colombo\", and that \"absolutely no action was taken to apprehend or prevent the criminal elements involved in these activities. In many instances army personnel participated in the looting of shops.\"\n\n\"The Economist\" of 6 August wrote: \"...But for days the soldiers and policemen were not overwhelmed; they were un-engaged or, in some cases, apparently abetting the attackers. Numerous eye witnesses attest that soldiers and policemen stood by while Colombo burned.\"\n\nPaul Sieghart of the \"International Commission of Jurists\" stated in \"Sri Lanka: A Mounting Tragedy of Errors\", two months after the riots, that \nClearly this (July 1983 attack) was no spontaneous upsurge of communal hatred among the Sinhala people – nor was it as has been suggested in some quarters, a popular response to the killing of 13 soldiers in an ambush the previous day by Tamil Tigers, which was not even reported in the newspapers until the riots began. It was a series of deliberate acts, executed in accordance with a concerted plan, conceived and organized well in advance.\n\nThe estimates of casualties vary. While the government initially stated just 250 Tamils were killed, various NGOs and international agencies estimate that between 400 and 3,000 people, believed to be Sri Lankan Tamils or Hill Country Tamils, were killed in the riots. Fifty-three terrorism suspects alone were killed in the Welikade prison massacre. Eventually the Sri Lankan government put the death toll at about 300 dead.\n\nMore than 18,000 houses and numerous commercial establishments were destroyed, and hundreds of thousands of Tamils fled the country to Europe, Australia and Canada. Many Tamil youths also joined the various Tamil groups, including the Tamil Tigers.\n\nA presidential commission appointed during the subsequent People's Alliance government estimated that nearly 300 people were killed and 18,000 establishments, including houses, were destroyed. The commission recommended that restitution be paid. Thus far no restitution has been paid nor have any criminal proceedings begun against anyone involved.\n\nJuly has become a time of mourning and remembrance amongst the Sri Lankan Tamil diaspora around the world. Tamil diaspora around the world come together to commemorate the loss of Tamils. This has happened in countries such as Canada, Switzerland, Norway, Denmark, Germany, France, Great Britain, Australia, and New Zealand.\n\n"}
{"id": "1087181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1087181", "title": "Blót", "text": "Blót\n\nThe sacrifice involved aspects of a sacramental meal or feast.\n\nThe cognate term ' or ' in Old English would have referred to comparable traditions in Anglo-Saxon paganism, and comparanda can also be reconstructed for the wider (prehistoric) Germanic Indo-European.\n\nThe word is an Old Norse strong neuter noun (genitive ). The corresponding Old English neuter (genitive ) may be influenced by Old Norse; the Old English gospels have prefixed \"sacrifice\".\n\nThe reconstructed Proto-Germanic form of the noun is \"sacrifice, worship\". Connected to this is the Proto-Germanic strong verb with descendants in Gothic (), Old Norse , Old English and Old High German , all of which mean \"to sacrifice, offer, worship\".\n\nThe word also appears in a compound attested in Old Norse as \"house of worship\" and in Old High German as \"temple\". With a different nominative affix, the same stem is found in the Proto-Germanic noun \"sacrifice\" — attested in Gothic * (*) in () \"worshipper of God\" and Old High German \"offering, sacrifice\"). This stem is thought to be connected to the Proto-Germanic verb \"to blow; to bloom, blossom\", as are the words for \"blood\" (Proto-Germanic ) and \"bloom\" (Proto-Germanic ). Sophus Bugge was the first to suggest a connection between and the Latin (< *), and both words can be traced back to the Proto-Indo-European stem * \"to bubble forth; to mumble, murmur, blather\".\n\nThe verb meant \"to worship with sacrifice\", or \"to strengthen\".\nThe sacrifice usually consisted of animals or war prisoners, in particular pigs and horses. The meat was boiled in large cooking pits with heated stones, either indoors or outdoors. The blood was considered to contain special powers and it was sprinkled on the statues of the gods, on the walls and on the participants themselves.\n\nIt was a sacred moment when the people gathered around the steaming cauldrons to have a meal together with the gods or the Elves. The drink that was passed around was blessed and sacred as well and it was passed from participant to participant. The drink was usually beer or mead but among the nobility it could be imported wine.\n\nThe old prayer was , \"for a good year and frith (peace)\" They asked for fertility, good health, a good life and peace and harmony between the people and the powers.\n\nThe autumn blót was performed in the middle of October (about four weeks after the autumn equinox), the Winter Nights, indicating the beginning of winter. The great midwinter blót, or Yule, took place in the middle of January. Freyr was the most important god at the Midwinter and autumn blót, and Christmas ham (the pig was for Freyr) is still a main Christmas course in parts of Scandinavia. The Summer blót was undertaken in the middle of April (about four weeks after the spring equinox) and it was given to Odin. Then, they drank for victory in war and this blót was the starting date for Viking expeditions and wars.\n\nFor the early Anglo-Saxons, November was known as , as this later Old English passage points out:\nA building where the blót took place was called a \"hov\" (compare German ) and there are many place names derived from this in e.g. Scania, West Götaland and East Götaland. Excavations at the medieval churches of Mære in Trøndelag and at Old Uppsala provide the few exceptions where church sites are associated with earlier churches.\n\nThere were also other sacred places called , , and . means altar possibly consisting of a heap of stones, means \"grove\" and simply \"sacred place\". The Christian laws forbade worshipping at the or meaning \"mound\" or \"barrow\".\n\nThe German historian Thietmar, Count of Merseburg wrote that the Daner had their main cult centre on Zealand at Lejre, where they gathered every nine years and sacrificed 99 people but also horses, dogs and hens. There are however no historical records from Scandinavian sources nor any archeological findings supporting this. Archaeological excavations have indeed revealed Lejre to be of great importance and in fact the seat of the royal family dating to at least the Iron Age. There is not conclusive evidence that Lejre was the site of a main cult centre though, but excavations around lake Tissø not far to the West, have revealed an ancient hof of great importance.\n\nSnorri Sturluson relates of a meeting between the peasants of Trøndelag and king Haakon I of Norway, a meeting which ended in a religious feud centered around the blót. Haakon was raised at the Christian English court and had returned to claim the throne of his father Harald Fairhair (the unifier of Norway) and intended to Christianize the country. In spite of the fact that the peasants had elected Haakon king at the Thing they opposed his religious ideas.\n\nDuring this ceremony, the king also had to participate, although he was a Christian, and he had to drink of the mead that was offered and consecrated for Odin, Njord and Freyja. The peasants also wanted him to eat of the meat, but he only gaped over the handle of the cauldron and held a linen cloth between his mouth and the meat. The peasants were not at all satisfied with a king who would not participate fully in the blót. The King had however, been seriously humiliated and later he converted to the old faith. The tradition says that he was buried in the old ways.\n\nThe Gutasaga relates of the blót on the island of Gotland in the Baltic Sea:\n\nThe German chronicler Adam of Bremen has described how it was done at the Temple at Uppsala at Old Uppsala in Sweden, ca 1070:\nThor was the most powerful god and ruled over thunder and lightning, wind and rain, sunshine and crops. He sat in the centre with a hammer (Mjolnir) in his hand, and on each side were Odin, the god of war, in full armour and Frey, the god of peace and love, attributed with an enormous erect phallus. All the pagan gods have their priests who offer them the people's sacrifices. If there is disease or famine, they sacrifice to Thor, if war to Odin and if weddings to Frey.\n\nEvery ninth year there is a blót of nine days, a common feast for everyone in Sweden. Then they sacrifice nine males of each species, even men, and the bodies are hung from the branches of a grove near the temple. No one is exempt from this blót and everyone sends gifts to the shrine, even the kings. Those who are Christian have to pay a fee not to take part in the blót.\n\nAdam of Bremen considered this financial penalty to be very harsh.\n\nIt is possible that the last nine-day blót was performed in 1078. The Temple at Uppsala was probably destroyed by king Ingold I in 1087. For quite some time there had been civil war between Christians and pagans every nine years, and this was the year of the last battle.\n\nAccording to Snorri, there was a main blót at the Temple at Uppsala in February, the , during which they sacrificed for peace and for the victories of the king. The blót was also performed to see how large the next harvest would be. Then the Thing of all Swedes was held and there was a grand fair, the Disting. The Disting survived Christianity, and the tradition has never been interrupted. The fair is still held every first Tuesday in February in Uppsala, even though the date has sometimes been moved within the month. In 1968, the tradition of discussing official matters was resumed.\n\nThe old Norse calendar consisted of a summer half year and a winter half year, not the four seasons modern Europeans are accustomed to. The winter half of the year began in mid-to-late October, the summer half of the year began in mid-to-late April. Some blót were associated with these turning points.\n\n\n\n\nThis point in time is known as First Day of Summer in modern Iceland\n\nPre-Christian Scandinavian traditions have left traces in Scandinavian folklore.\nA conscious revival of Norse paganism has also taken place, in the 19th century in Romantic nationalism, and since the later 20th century under the name Asatru or Germanic Neopaganism.\n\nIn Scandinavian Yule or Christmas traditions in particular, such as the \"Christmas porridge\", of which an extra bowl often is served and carried outdoors, because this is a meal shared with the guardian of the homestead, the tomte (nisse in Danish and Norwegian), a land wight.\n\nThe Þorrablót is an Icelandic tradition introduced in the 19th century, deliberately harking back to the term \"blót\" associated with pre-Christian times.\n\nModern adherents of the reconstructionist \nGermanic neopaganism (in English-speaking countries also known as \"heathenism\")\nhave developed traditions of \"blót\" rituals celebrated in a contemporary context since the 1970s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2978455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2978455", "title": "Boggy Bayou Mullet Festival", "text": "Boggy Bayou Mullet Festival\n\nThe Boggy Bayou Mullet Festival is an annual seafood and arts festival held in Niceville, Florida, United States, beginning the third Friday in October. The main attractions are music, food (especially fried mullet), rides and a wide variety of arts and crafts.\n\nThis festival is named after the mullet, a fish found in abundance in the local waters. While it is a common misconception, the mullet haircut is not the origin of the festival's name. \n\nThe festival was founded by Walter Francis Spence Jr. in 1976. The first Mullet Festival took place on September 24th, 1977. Now the festival lasts three days, starting the third Friday in October, and ends Sunday after dark. Alcohol is not served on Sunday. In recent years, the festival has typically had attendance over 40,000 for the weekend.\n\nChantal, Hollywood entertainment reporter for ABC's \"Good Morning America,\" broadcast from the festival on Friday, October 20, 1989. During the broadcast, festival founder, Francis Spence, and local James Campbell demonstrated how to catch and fry mullet.\n\nIn 2009, a third annual Boggy Bayou Mullet Festival T-shirt made by Tailgate Clothing Company appeared in Season 2 of the HBO series, \"True Blood\" (Episode 3 - \"Scratches\"). A representative from the show said that she found the shirt on a Web site she used to outfit some of the characters. A Mullet Festival T-shirt had also appeared on the CBS comedy \"How I Met Your Mother\" (Season 4, Episode 1), according to Niceville City Manager Lannie Corbin.\n\n2016 - Justin Moore, Joe Diffie, Chase Bryant, Confederate Railroad, Farewell Angelina, Brassfield Aly, Troy Laz Band, The Springs, Dan Eubanks, NWFSC Soundsations, Tommy Morse Band\n\n2015 - Joe Nichols, Lonestar, Gloriana, Love and Theft, Dailey & Vincent, Mingo Fishtrap, Waylon Thibodeaux, Vince Vance & the Valiants, Big Water\n\n2014 - Martina McBride, Dustin Lynch, Neal McCoy, Red Roots, Crystal Yates, Hunter Phelps, Mustang Sally, Blackjack Billy, Big Water\n\n2013 - Vince Gill, Justin Moore, Thompson Square, The Swon Brothers, Blackjack Billy, The Isaacs, Ben Portsmouth Ultimate Elvis Tribute, Parker Willingham, Dr. Zarr's Amazing Funk Monster, Tayo Reed Explosion, Big Water, NWFSC Soundsations\n\n2012 - Kellie Pickler, Jake Owen, Colt Ford, Florida Georgia Line, Due West, The Molly Ringwalds, Compozitionz, Brandon Bennett\n\n2011 - Trace Adkins, Jake Owen, Brantley Gilbert, Sleepy Man Banjo Boys, Dr. Zarr's Amazing Funk Monster, The Alabama Blues Brothers, Big Swing and the Ballroom Blasters\n\n2010 - Josh Turner, Joe Nichols, Brantley Gilbert, Jerrod Niemann, Ronnie McDowell, Damon Smith, Dr. Zarr's Amazing Funk Monster, The Tip Tops, The BluesCrabs, Bo Porter, Barry Fish Band\n\n2009 - Billy Ray Cyrus, Blake Shelton, Chuck Wicks, Dr. Zarr's Amazing Funk Monster, Mustang Sally\n\n2008 - Jason Aldean, Sara Evans, Rodney Atkins, Sweetwater Jade, Jeff Fiorello\n\n2007 - Kenny Rogers, Blake Shelton, Gary Allan, Keith Anderson, The Grascals, The BluesCrabs\n\n2006 - Travis Tritt, Lonestar, Blake Shelton, Trent Willmon, The Grascals, The Alley Cats\n\n2005 - The Charlie Daniels Band, Terri Clark, Hot Apple Pie, Rockapella, The Fish Tank Band, Dread Clampitt\n\n2004 - David Lee Murphy, Restless Heart, Craig Morgan, Little Texas, Isis, The Alley Cats\n\n2003 - The Charlie Daniels Band, Dierks Bentley, Montgomery Gentry, The Alley Cats, Air Force Jazz Ensemble\n\n2002 - Ricky Skaggs, Trick Pony, Emerson Drive, Daron Norwood, Mountain Heart, Little Big Town\n\n2001 - Diamond Rio, Little River Band, Trick Pony, Isis, Sons of the Desert, The Clarke Family, The Alley Cats\n\n2000 - Rick Springfield, Rascal Flatts, Tracy Lawrence, Eric Heatherly\n\n1999 - Lonestar, Aaron Tippin, Sherrie Austin\n\n1998 - Dixie Chicks, Rhett Akins, Ricochet, Exile\n\n1997 - Neal McCoy, Exile\n\n1996 - Lonestar, Ty Herndon, Mark Wills\n\n1995 - Ty England, Ken Mellons\n\n1994 - Daron Norwood\n\n1993 - Mark Wills, Daron Norwood\n\n1992 - Billy Ray Cyrus, Daron Norwood\n\n1991 - The Temptations\n\n1990 - The Drifters, The Platters\n\n1989 - New Grass Revival\n\n1988 - New Grass Revival, The Tams\n\n\n"}
{"id": "972870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=972870", "title": "Byron Bay Bluesfest", "text": "Byron Bay Bluesfest\n\nThe Byron Bay Bluesfest, formerly the East Coast International Blues & Roots Music Festival, is an annual music festival that has been held over the Easter long weekend in the Byron Bay area in Australia since 1990. It features a large selection of blues and roots performers, from Australia and around the world, and is one of the world's leading contemporary music festivals.\n\nIt was founded by Keven Oxford and Dan Doeppel in 1990 and is now run by Peter Noble who joined Oxford for the 1994 event. It has been held at several locations in and around Byron Bay, and is currently held at Tyagarah, 11 kilometres drive north of Byron Bay town. Originally running for three days, it now runs for five days, from Thursday to Monday. From an original crowd of 6,000, it now attracts annual audiences of over 101,000 across the five days. Patrons range from locals to international visitors from a wide age range, including celebrities such as Matt Damon, Jason Momoa and Chris Hemsworth.\n\nThe festival was staged for the first time in 1990 at the Arts Factory Lodge in Byron Bay as a five-day blues music event over the Easter weekend. In December 2004, Keven Oxford, a director and founder of the event, left the festival and sold his 50% share of the company to a consortium comprising Michael Chugg (managing director of Sydney-based Michael Chugg Entertainment), Daryl Herbert (CEO of Melbourne-based Definitive Events) and Glenn Wheatley (CEO of Melbourne-based Talentworks), who ran the festival with co-founder Peter Noble. Noble bought out the consortium in 2008 and now owns the festival alone. In 2010 Bluesfest moved to its permanent home at the 120-hectare Tyagarah Tea Tree farm.\n\nAWARDS SUMMARY – BLUESFEST \n\nBLUESFEST AWARDS\n\nBLUESFEST NOMINATIONS\n\nThe line-up for the 2007 festival included:\n\n\n\nThe 2008 festival was held at the Belongil Fields, the original outdoor venue. The 2008 festival had more food and craft stalls, a covered area where festival goers could eat at tables, a chill-out area, plus an area for an additional, fifth stage.\n\nArtists in 2008 included Buddy Guy, Eskimo Joe, The John Butler Trio, Gotye, The Beautiful Girls, Newton Faulkner, Seasick Steve, Charlie Musselwhite, Mavis Staples, John P. Hammond, John Hiatt, Ray Davies, Maceo Parker, Loudon Wainwright III, Ozomatli, Ruthie Foster, Jake Shimabukuro, Keith Urban, Amali Ward, Lior, MOFRO, Dan Sultan, Jeff Lang, The Cat Empire, Clare Bowditch, Raul Midon and Xavier Rudd.\n\nThe line-up for the 2011 festival included:\n\n\n\nThe line-up for the 2012 festival included:\nThe line-up for the 2013 festival included:\nThursday, 28 March\nFriday, 29 March\nSaturday 30, March\nSunday, 31 March\nMonday, 1 April\nThe line-up for the 2014 festival included:\nThursday, 17 April\nFriday, 18 April \nSaturday, 19 April \nSunday, 20 April \nMonday, 21 April \nThe line-up for the 2015 festival included:\nThursday, 2 April \nFriday, 3 April\nSaturday, 4 April\nSunday, 5 April\nMonday, 6 April\nThe line-up for the 2016 festival included:\nThursday, 24 March \nFriday, 25 March\nSaturday, 26 March \n\nSunday, 27 March \nMonday, 28 March \nThe line-up for the 2017 festival included:\nThursday, 13 April\nFriday, 14 April\nBOOMERANG:\nSaturday, 15 April\nBOOMERANG:\nSunday, 16 April \nBOOMERANG:\nMonday, 17 April \nThe line-up for the 2018 festival included:\nThursday, 29 March\nFriday, 30 March \n\nBOOMERANG:\n\nSaturday, 31 March \n\nBOOMERANG:\nSunday, 1 April \nClayton Doley’s Bayou Billabong \nRag 'n' Bone Man \n\nBOOMERANG:\nMonday, 2 April \n\n\n"}
{"id": "38745827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38745827", "title": "Childe Byron", "text": "Childe Byron\n\nChilde Byron is a 1977 play by Romulus Linney about the strained relationship between the poet, Lord Byron, and his daughter, Ada Lovelace. Of Linney's more than sixty plays, \"Childe Byron\" is one he identified as holding a \"deeply personal\" connection. In his own words, he approached it through \"the pain of a divorced father who can't reach his own daughter.\"\nIn his narrative poem, \"Childe Harold's Pilgrimage\", Byron wrote of the female infant he left behind when he went into exile: \"I see thee not. I hear thee not. But none can be so rapt in thee.” When Linney re-read these words in preparation for the play, he recalled \"My daughter Laura, the actress... her mother and I were separated and divorced when she was a baby, so these lines just laid me out.\"\n\nThe play received its first production on March 4, 1977 in the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, on the stage of the Virginia Museum Theater (now the Leslie Cheek Theater) in Richmond, Virginia. Commissioned by Keith Fowler, then the artistic director of the theater, with the aid of a Ford Foundation grant, and staged by Fowler as a part of that company's \"Festival of Britain,\" the play received wide attention from local and national press. The original cast was led by Jeremiah Sullivan as Lord Byron and Marjorie Lerstrom as his daughter, with an ensemble of David Addis, Janet Bell, James Kirkland, Pamela Lewis, Rachael Lindhart, and William Stancil. The show's scenery was designed by Sandro LaFerla, and the costumes were by Paige Southard. M. Elizabeth Osborn was the company's dramaturg.\n\nThe word \"Childe\" is an honorific once given to young aristocratic men who had not yet attained knighthood, and its use in the play's title is a reference to Lord Byron's poem, \"Childe Harold's Pilgrimage\". The drama begins with Ada, the Countess of Lovelace, writing her will. She is a mathematician and the daughter of the infamous George Gordon, Lord Byron, a man reputed to be \"mad, bad, and dangerous to know.\" She is dying of a painful cancer at age thirty-six, the same age he was when he died. Separated from him while he lived, she now hates his memory. As her own end is near, however, she desires to know more about the man. Her medicines stimulate her imagination, and she envisions him alive again. In incisive, witty dialogue she digs into the truth behind the legends surrounding her father. Six other actors play a diverse range of characters as she observes scenes from Byron's life, including his youthful incestuous relations with his sister, his homosexual adventures, his foolish marriage, and the causes of his disapprobation by British society.\n\nAuthor Linney is known for his strong female characters, from Esther Dudley and Mrs. Madeline Lee in his \"Democracy\" to Lucy Lake in \"The Love Suicide at Schofield Barracks\". His Ada Lovelace is one of his richest roles. Beginning with a deeply negative perception of her absent father, yet driven to understand his contradictions, Ada challenges his spirit remorselessly. In the contest she matches his masculine flippancy, but comes to see his essential honesty.\n\nDiscussing his dramatized women in \"The New York Times\", Linney commented, \"I'm not writing about what you're supposed to think of women, but what you really think of them. … Oh, they get credit for doing the right thing or the wrong thing, but not the unique or surprising thing. … I love the contradictions in women.\"\nIn the end of \"Childe Byron\", a compromising reconciliation between daughter and sire is reached—providing a freshly intimate view of the major Romantic poet of the early 19th century.\n\n“The perils of the state as patron of the arts” was the headline of a \"Washington Post\" editorial criticizing the Virginia Museum’s reaction to its own theater's premiere of \"Childe Byron\". In his commentary, staff writer Paul G. Edwards noted that America’s tradition of free speech and first amendment prohibition on governmental interference with public expression were challenged anew by the Virginia Museum trustees’ “obnoxious” attempts to censor the play that had been commissioned by their own artistic director. Indeed, the first production of \"Childe Byron\" caused a stir in conservative Richmond, the capitol of the old Confederacy. The play's subject matter drew controversy when the administrative director of the museum, in response to pressure from some trustees and a few influential patrons, called on artistic director Keith Fowler to remove a homosexual kiss and delete the word \"fuck\" from an historical quotation attributed to Byron. With playwright Linney's backing, Fowler declined the censorship directive.\n\nNational attention turned to the \"Byron\" conflict. Interviewed on NPR's \"All Things Considered,\" Fowler said that he stood by author Linney's script despite the museum director's threat to close the show. \"The order impinged directly on an area of artistic prerogative ... I discussed the problem with cast members and... they were very supportive of my stand.\" The \"Post\" editorial complained of the state-sponsored Virginia Museum's \"Big Brother government\" interference in theater art. A museum trustee was quoted as saying, \"Accountability is the name of the game,\" to which the editorial replied, \"Maybe in government, but not in theater. Theater goers have a right to assume that the art they pay to hear and see reflects the genius and biases of the playwright, players and play director, not the government.\" Local letter writers noted ironically that the sense of scandal that accompanied Byron in his lifetime seemed reflected in the new storm attending his stage debut. \"Throughout his life,\" commented one correspondent, \"Byron and his poetry drew both acclaim and outrage. The controversial reception of \"Childe Byron\" is a tribute to its success.\" Patrons on either side threatened to cancel subscriptions. Letters to editorial pages grew heated for and against the museum's attempt to impose revisions on the play.\"\n\nCiting a dramatist's guild contract that protects a playwright's text, director Fowler prevailed, and the show remained intact throughout its run—although the artistic victory was to prove costly. When he called on the trustees to promise no further attempts to censor VMT productions, Fowler's contract was allowed to expire. Although the theater's subscriptions had more than doubled under his directorship, the administration found it expedient to let him go.\nHis departure gave emphasis to the issue of artistic freedom, with some letter writers sensing that a golden age of Richmond Theater was drawing to an end and lamenting the end of VMT as a \"bastion of culture.\" The public response triggered by \"Childe Byron\" did not remain confined to the play. The museum's censorship attempt stirred citizen groups to challenge the powerful institution, including a letter of protest circulated by local artists who alleged that the museum had a pattern of peremptory censorship. The letter accused the museum of forcing Fowler's resignation and interfering with other artists' exhibitions. According to the minutes of the trustees' meetings, complaints of censorship occupied the institution's director and trustees for the ensuing three months In May, the \"Childe Byron\" incident was cited among other grounds for a possible \"first amendment court case through the American Civil Liberties Union\" against the Virginia Museum.\n\nAt the end of the 1977 theater season, Fowler was awarded Richmond Newspapers' \"Phoebe\" prize for \"Best Direction\" for the staging of \"Childe Byron\". He was subsequently hired by his alma mater, the Yale School of Drama, to head the directing program there.\nAs with many such art and censorship clashes, the passions over \"Childe Byron\" were quick to rise and then dissipated over time. Romulus Linney's frank, witty drama remained intact throughout its original run; the shock waves that emanated from it may have roused public vigilance but did no harm to ticket sales, and the play's subsequent history and many revivals attest to its continuing theatrical vigor.\n\n\"Childe Byron\" is one of prolific author Linney's most frequently revived plays. Not long after its Richmond premiere, the play was performed in 1979 by the Actors Theater in Louisville, where it was directed by Jon Jory. Its New York premiere was in 1981 in a production by Circle Repertory Company, directed by Marshall W. Mason and starring William Hurt as Byron and Lindsay Crouse as Ada.\nIt was first produced on the West Coast in 1981 by South Coast Repertory in Costa Mesa, California. The play's first international production was by London's Young Vic in 1981, with pop star David Essex in the title role and Simon Gipps-Kent as the young Byron. The Penguin Repertory Theater of Rockland County NY presented a well-reviewed revival in 1987.Scarcely a year goes by without a revival by a regional American theater or a university. Philadelphia's Wilma Theater produced the drama in 1986; Baylor University presented its version in 2003; a revival by the Players Club in Swarthmore was in 2005, while Drake University offered it in 2013, over thirty-five years following its premiere.\n\"Childe Byron\", acknowledged by Linney as a personal attempt by a divorced father to speak to his daughter (\"cf.\" footnotes 1 and 2), eventually led to a direct real-life link when actress Laura Linney performed the role of Ada in 1986 during her senior year at Brown University, a performance which her father described as the play's \"crowning\" event.\nThrough the years, various directors have shown how the play can be staged as an historic spectacle--as in Philadelphia's Allens Lane production in 2012 where the focus was on Byron's relations with his large \"entourage\"... like a \"modern-day posse\"--or as an intimate, unpretentious study--as in the \"compact, elegant little production\" with \"beauty and power\" offered by the Eclipse Theater in 2001 at the Athenaeum in Chicago.\n"}
{"id": "18995717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18995717", "title": "Combat operations process", "text": "Combat operations process\n\nCombat operations area - process is undertaken by armed forces during military campaigns, major operations, battles, and engagements to facilitate the setting of objectives, direction of combat, and assessment of the operation plan's success.\n\nThe basic model of the combat operations area process includes five phases that seek to acquire targets and objectives, allocate and orient appropriate forces for successful engagement of the enemy, make decisions about doctrinal approach to the engagement, execute the plan by engaging in combat, and conduct post-combat intelligence assessment of the success or failure of the operation's plan.\n"}
{"id": "2197297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2197297", "title": "Death education", "text": "Death education\n\nDeath education is education about death that focuses on the human and emotional aspects of death. Though it may include teaching on the biological aspects of death, teaching about coping with grief is a primary focus. Death education is formally known as thanatology. Thanatology stems from the Greek word \"thanatos\", meaning death, and \"ology\" meaning a science or organized body of knowledge. A specialist in this field is referred to as a thanatologist. \nDeath education refers to the experiences and activities of death that one deals with. Death education also deals with being able to grasp the different processes of dying, talk about the main topics of attitudes and meanings toward death, and the after effects on how to learn to care for people that are affected by the death. The main focus in death education is teaching people how to cope with grief. Many people feel death education is a taboo and instead of talking about death and grieving, they hide it away and never bring it up to others. With the right education of death, the less of a taboo it will be.\n\nHistorically death education in American society has been seen as a taboo topic, not worthy of scholarly research or for educational purposes. In the 1960s pioneering professionals like that of Herman Feifel (1959), Elisabeth Kübler-Ross (1969), and Cicely Saunders (1967) encouraged behavioral scientists, clinicians, and humanists to pay attention and to study death-related topics. This initiated the death-awareness movement and began the widespread study of death-related behavior, developing new programs of care for the dying and bereaved, as well as new research on death-related attitudes.\n\n\"Death is no enemy of life; it restores our sense of the value of living. Illness restores the sense of proportion that is lost when we take life for granted. To learn about value and proportion we need to honor illness, and ultimately to honor death.\" Death education honors death by educating about death, dying, and bereavement to enrich personal lives, inform and guide individuals in their transactions with society, prepare individuals for their public roles as citizens, help prepare and support individuals in their professional and vocational roles, and lastly to enhance the ability of individuals to communicate effectively about death-related matters.\n\nOne of the major organizations that educates people on death is Hospice. Hospice offers support for the caregiver, and Hospice also offers information on what to expect before death and what the family can expect after death. One of the major subjects that hospice addresses within death are the myths that come along with death. Hospice will also walk caretakers through the signs and symptoms to look for that signify death.\nHospice is an important type of care that helps spread and explain death education to the people. When people have a loved one that is not able to get anymore help from medication or doctors, it would be a good recommendation for them to go to hospice. They would be able to receive great support and comfort during the end of their life journey. Not only does hospice give care to the terminally ill, they also give grief suggestions to family members and close friends. \"With proper care, proper support, and love, we can share the miracle that is life\". The end of a person's life should be centered on being alive instead of being dead.\n\nStudents of a death education course need to clearly understand the complex knowledge of the subject, learn the five key areas of knowledge, and to learn the physical, psycho-social, behavioral, and cognitive aspects of death. The five key areas are: understanding the dying process, decision making for end of life, loss, grief, and bereavement, assessment and intervention, and traumatic death. Death education should be taught in perspective and one's emotional response should be proportionate to the occasion. In addition death education can be taught formally or informally. Formally planned death education is associated with learning in organized educational settings including: schools, colleges, graduate education, professional workshops, and volunteer training programs.\n\nin her book, In Death and Dying (1969), Elisabeth Kubler-Ross proposed the five stages of the dying process. Though her work has often been referred to as the \"five stages of grief,\" the original work was based on her clinical observations of the psychosocial responses of terminally ill patients to their impending death. Much scholarly debate has surrounded the legitimacy of her five \"stages\"—denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance. Experienced psychosocial clinicians have largely rejected the accuracy of the model because it addresses only emotional states, sets up false expectations of the process, and have not been empirically verified as a descriptive model.\n\nThe first stage is denial and isolation. When you first hear about a loved one who has a deathly illness your first instinct is to deny the reality of the situation. This is known as a defense mechanism because we block out the words by not fully processing them and also hide from the facts.\nThe second stage is anger. Once the blocking out subsides the reality of the situation becomes overwhelming and the pain from the news emerges.\nThe third stage is bargaining. This stage you will feel more vulnerable and helpless. In order to gain control again you'll start thinking of ways that would have made it better like:\n• \"If only we had sought medical attention sooner…\"\n• \"If only we got a second opinion from another doctor…\"\n• \"If only we had tried to be a better person toward them…\"\n\nAll of these are defense lines to try and protect us from the reality of pain in a lost one.\nThe fourth stage is depression. In this stage there can be two different types of depression that you deal with. The first type of depression can be a more quiet and private feeling. The second type of depression is the kind where sadness and regret overtake your body and become the predominate factors in your life.\nThe fifth and final stage is acceptance. This stage does not always reach everyone but for the people who actually get it should consider this stage as a gift. It does not mean that you will not be sad anymore but it does mean that there is going to be some kind of peace that you are able to reach with the loved one that died.\n\nEven though people are still conservative towards the idea of death and dying, with help and the education of death, people will come to know death as a natural part of life that everyone will someday have to go through. Instead of being timid and scared of death, people will become comfortable towards the topic and be able to prepare for what will come in the future. Death education is not just for medical professionals and those dealing with the terminally ill but rather death education is beneficial to everyone for it reveals the importance of quality in living and the human search for meaning. \"Dying was what human life moved toward and therefore dying was what a human being constantly prepared for.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "26123046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26123046", "title": "Eastern Sports and Outdoor Show", "text": "Eastern Sports and Outdoor Show\n\nThe Eastern Sports and Outdoor Show was an outdoor hunting and fishing exposition held annually at the Pennsylvania Farm Show Complex & Expo Center in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania in the United States, and was the largest show of its kind in North America. The event was first held in 1955 and attracted outdoor sports enthusiasts from Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware, New Jersey, New York and Washington D.C.. The annual event was known to showcase the very latest that hunting and fishing had to offer, including services, gear, expert advice, seminars and competition shooting. It included more than 1,000 hunting and fishing related vendors and over 500 outfitters from around the world.\n\nOn January 15, 2013 Reed Exhibitions, the promoter of the show, announced that modern sporting rifles (MSR's) and related products would not be permitted at the show. Following the announcement, hundreds of its exhibitors and most of its celebrity speakers cancelled. Following opposition by the National Rifle Association, and a statement by the National Shooting Sports Foundation that they would stop co-organizing with Reed for their annual SHOT Show, Reed announced the indefinite postponement of the ESOS. The Eastern Sports and Outdoor Show was subsequently replaced with a new exhibition, run by the NRA and known as the Great American Outdoor Show, which was first held in February 2014 and annually since.\n\nTourism Officials for the Hershey and Harrisburg Region of Pennsylvania reported the postponement and eventual cancellation of the ESOS in 2013 resulted in an estimated $80 million loss to the local economy. Officials with the Hershey Harrisburg Regional Visitors Bureau (HHRVB) reported $44 Million of that loss was in Direct Spending from the 1,000 vendors and estimated 250,000 visitors attending the show each year. Regional hotels reported the event accounted for approximately 12,000 room-nights during what was typically a slow period for occupancy.\n\n"}
{"id": "22414140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22414140", "title": "Eclipse Festival", "text": "Eclipse Festival\n\nEclipse Festival is an electronic music festival held in Quebec, Canada during the summer. Formerly biennial but yearly since 2016, this festival is a weekend-long international gathering of visual and musical art. It features a symbiosis of dance, open philosophies, performance art, human (and spiritual) experiences.\n\nThe first edition of the Eclipse Festival was an indoor party that happened in Montreal in the end of April of the year 1999. After two years of absence, they came back in September 2002, with another indoor party. The festival has been happening every year since then, inviting electronic music producers and DJs from all over the world.\n\nThe 2003 edition of the Eclipse Festival happened in the outdoors near Mont-Tremblant, Quebec. People were invited to bring their tents and camp there. Since that year, the festival officially became an outdoor festival. The 2004 edition was held in Ste-Agathe, Quebec. In 2005 they moved the location to Ste-Therese-de-la-Gatineau, which is a lot farther from the big cities, but which is also a bigger place with big open fields and a beach on the river. They used the same location for all the other events after that, except in 2007 when the festival happened at the ecovillage at Mont-Radar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5625754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5625754", "title": "Electronic Music Midwest", "text": "Electronic Music Midwest\n\nElectronic Music Midwest (EMM) is a festival of new electroacoustic music.\n\nEMM is the result of a consortium formed between Kansas City Kansas Community College (KCKCC), Lewis University, and the University of Missouri–Kansas City. This festival was founded by Mike McFerron, Connie Mayfield, and Paul Rudy in 2000 when it was presented at KCKCC under the name \"Kansas City Electronic Music Festival.\" In 2001, the festival continued at Lewis University under the title, \"Electronic Music at Lewis - 2001.\" Electronic Music Midwest became the official name at the 2002 festival held at Kansas City Kansas Community College.\n\nElectronic Music Midwest continued its tradition of excellence, in this, its eleventh annual festival hosted by Kansas City Kansas Community College. As one of the premiere electroacoustic conferences in the world, EMM is responsible for having performed over 500 works. That is quite the feat. This essential festival is remarkably approachable for anyone willing to take the first leap. If your impression of electronic music is a random collection of bleeps and blorps, the variety of music at EMM will astound you if you’re willing to delve into outwardly atypical aural spaces - \"Eclectic electronics\" By Lee Hartman KCMetropolis.org Tue, Oct 04, 2011 \n\nIn celebration of EMM's 10th anniversary, Lewis University hosted the first EMM mini-Invitational festival on March 11, 2010. 15 composers were invited to present up to 15 minutes of music during this one-day, three concert festival. Among other compositions, highlights from this festival included \"Three Improvisatory Groovescapes\" (performed by the composer) by EMM technical director, Ian Corbett, \"Tranquility\" by Kyong Mee Choi, \"Bapu\" (performed by Lisa Bost-Sandberg) by Asha Srinivasan, and \"Texturologie 6: Emerald Emergent\" by James Caldwell.\n\nElectronic Music Midwest (EMM) alternates each year between Kansas City, Kansas and the suburbs of Chicago in Romeoville, Illinois. Besides the main festival which is usually takes place over three days. The festival also presents \"mini\" festivals which are one day events presented as outreach to other cities. Composer's Voice Concert Series hosted an EMM mini-Invitational festival In New York City on June 24, 2012. Western Michigan University as part of is New Sounds Festival hosted EMM mini-Invitational festival in Kalamazoo, Michigan.\n\nEMM has always featured an 8-speaker surround diffusion system under the guidance of Ian Corbett. The core of the system are eight Mackie 1521 bi-amped speakers, an EAW/QSC subwoofer system, and a Soundcraft MH3, 32+4 Channel mixer.\n\nSince its beginning, EMM has programmed over 500 new electroacoustic compositions. Composers have traveled from around the world to graciously share their music with audiences in the Midwest. EMM strives to create an environment conducive to building community interaction. \"Electronic Music Midwest has been dedicated to program a variety of electro-acoustic music, and to provide the highest quality of e-media presentations.\"\n\nMost concerts are approximately one hour long, and composers have plenty of time to \"talk shop\" with each other as well as interact socially with students and audience members.\n\n\n\nAmong others, EMM has programmed music by the following composers:\n\nBirgitte Alsted, Linda Antas, Larry Austin, Andrew Babcock, Jeremy Baguyos, Jay Batzner, Martin Bedard, Brian Belet, Kari Besharse, Christopher Biggs, Scott Blasco, Marita Bolles, Jason Bolte, Michael Boyd, Taylor Briggs, Kirsten Broberg, Benjamin Broening, George Brunner, Ivica Bukvic, Madelyn Byrne, James Caldwell, Clifton Callender, Camila Cano, Jen-Kuang Chang, Kyong Mee Choi, Da Jeong Choi, Young-Shin Choi, Joshua Clausen, Andrew Seager Cole, William Coogan, Ian Corbett, Christopher Danforth, Ken Davies, Nathan Davis, Brad Decker, David DeVasto, Greg Dixon, Aaron Doenges, Ben Dorfan, Matthew Dotson, Nicholas Drake, Michael Drew, Ivan Elezovic, Rachel Evans, Robert Fleisher, Mike Frengel, Lawrence Fritts, Jason Geistweidt, Jacob Gotlib, Arthur Gottschalk, Côté Guillaume, Moon Young Ha, Kip Haaheim, Randall Hall, Jonathan Hallstrom, Adam Hardin, Nickolas Hartgrove, Jeffrey Hass, James Hegarty, Jeff Herriott, Eric Honour, Robert Honstein, Hubert Howe, Tsai Yun Huang, Peter Hulen, Marie Incontrera, Ryan Ingebritsen, Karl Jentzsch, Timothy Johnson, Richard Johnson, Brooke Joyce, Noah Keesecker, Kevin Kissinger, Laura Kramer, Kadet Kuhne, John Latartara, HyeKyung Lee, Elainie Lillios, Cort Lippe, Hunter Long, Ed Martin, Robert McClure, Mike McFerron, David McIntire, Christian McLeer, Jim McManus, Louis Migliazza, Brent Milam, Katarina Miljkovic, Julia Miller, Jason Mitchell, James Mobberley, Dohi Moon, David Mooney, David Morneau, Rick Nance, Adam Scott Neal, Israel Neuman, Paul Oehlers, Yemin Oh, Michael Olson, Joo Won Park, Ronald Parks, Tom Parsons, Sean Peuquet, Michael Pounds, Christopher Preissing, Tim Reed, Tony Reimer, Michael Reimer, 60x60, David Roberts, Jonathan Robertson, Thomas Royal, Marcus Rubio, Paul Rudy, Jake Rundall, Salil Sachdev, James Sain, Alexander Schubert, Philip Schuessler, Liza Seigido, Chris Shortway, Eric Simonson, Steven Snethkamp, Steven Snowden, Mark Snyder, Jorge Sosa, Asha Srinivasan, Jack Stamps, Timothy Stulman, Daniel Swilley, Jerry Tabor, Paul Thomas, Spencer Topel, Schuyler Tsuda, Sam Tymorek, Audrey Valentine, Bob Valentine, Bert Van Herck, Dan VanHassel, Angela Veomett, Joseph Vogel, Robert Voisey, Andrew Walters, Brett Wartchow, Lauren Wells, Tom Williams, Benjamin Williams, Zackery Wilson, Bart Woodstrup, Nihan Yesil, Samson Young, Peiying Yuan, Richard Zarou, Bei Zhang, Zachariah Zubow\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "184807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=184807", "title": "Eurovision Song Contest 1966", "text": "Eurovision Song Contest 1966\n\nThe Eurovision Song Contest 1966 was the 11th edition of the annual Eurovision Song Contest. It was held on 5 March 1966 in Luxembourg, Luxembourg, following the country's win at the previous 1965 edition. The host venue was Grand Auditorium de RTL in Villa Louvigny. The presenter was Josiane Chen.\n\nThe winner was Austria with the song \"Merci, Chérie\" performed and composed by Udo Jürgens, and written by Jürgens and Thomas Hörbiger. This would remain Austria's only win in the contest until their second win in 2014. The rule stating that a country could only sing in any of its national languages was originally created in this year, possibly due to the 1965 edition's Swedish entry which was sung in English.\n\nThe 1966 Eurovision Song Contest was hosted in Luxembourg City. The venue chosen to host the 1966 contest was the Villa Louvigny, which also hosted the Eurovision Song Contest 1962. The building served as the headquarters of Compagnie Luxembourgeoise de Télédiffusion, the forerunner of RTL Group. It is located in Municipal Park, in the Ville Haute quarter of the centre of the city.\n\nDuring the voting process, the presenter (Josiane Chen) accidentally greeted United Kingdom by saying \"Good night, London\". She then realized her mistake and said \"Good evening, London\", after Michael Aspel, who was the spokesperson for the United Kingdom, at that time, responded by saying \"Good morning, Luxembourg\".\n\n1966 marked the year the first ever black singer graced the Eurovision stage, Milly Scott representing the Netherlands. She was also the first singer to use a portable microphone. This was the last contest that Denmark participated in until 1978, more than a decade later.\n\nIt was also one of the first contests in which an entry was not accompanied by an orchestra. The Italian entry \"Dio, come ti amo\" performed by Domenico Modugno had been rearranged since its performance at the Sanremo Music Festival and officially broke the EBU rule that stated the arrangement should be finalised well in advance. During the Saturday afternoon rehearsal Modugno performed the new arrangement with three of his own musicians as opposed to the orchestra, which went over the three minute time limit. Following his rehearsal Modugno was confronted by the show's producers about exceeding the time limit and was asked to use the original arrangement with the orchestra. Modugno was so dissatisfied with the orchestra that he threatened to withdraw from the Contest. Both the producers and EBU scrutineer Clifford Brown felt it was too short notice to fly Gigliola Cinquetti to Luxembourg to represent Italy, so the EBU gave in and allowed Modugno to use his own ensemble instead of the orchestra. Despite websites and the official programme listing Angelo Giacomazzi as the conductor, Giacomazzi actually played the piano for the entry.\n\nAll countries which participated in the 1965 contest returned for a second consecutive year. There were no new nations, nor any returning, nor withdrawals.\n\nEach performance had a conductor who was maestro of the orchestra.\n\nTwo artists returned for a third time in this year's contest. Udo Jürgens from Austria whose previous participations were in 1964 and 1965; and Domenico Modugno from Italy, who last participated in 1958 and 1959.\n\nBelow is a summary of all 5 points in the final:\n\nThe table below shows the order in which votes were cast during the 1966 contest along with the spokesperson who was responsible for announcing the votes for their respective country. Each national broadcaster also sent a commentator to the contest, in order to provide coverage of the contest in their own native language. Details of the commentators and the broadcasting station for which they represented are also included in the table below.\n"}
{"id": "1687254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1687254", "title": "Fest Noz", "text": "Fest Noz\n\nA Fest Noz (Breton for \"night festival\") is a Breton traditional festival, with dancing in groups and live musicians playing acoustic instruments.\n\nAlthough it is all too easy to write off the \"fest nozou\" and \"fêtes folkloriques\" as modern inventions, most of the traditional dances of the Fest Noz are ancient, some dating back to the Middle Ages, providing a way for the community to grasp hold of its past and relish a deep sense of being with ancestors and with place.\n\nThe plural in Breton is \"festoù-noz\", but the Goadec Sisters (a family of traditional singers) used to say \"festnozoù\", and the French may also say in French \"des fest-noz\".\n\nOn 5 December 2012 the fest-noz was added by UNESCO to the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.\n\nA fest-noz (plurial festoù-noz) is a traditional dance festival in Brittany. Most Breton dances are social dances, in a group. Currently, many festoù-noz are also held outside Brittany within diaspora, bringing the Breton culture to life outside Breton territory. This term is known since the end of the 19th century but is given as a name only since the 1950s.\n\nIn the past, the dances were sometimes used to trample the ground to make a firm earth floor in a house or a solid surface for farm work (the \"aire neuve\" dances), to which people from the neighbourhood were invited, which explains the presence of stamping movements in some of the dances. For a long time the church banned \"kof-ha-kof\" (stomach-to-stomach) dances, meaning dancing in pairs. These festivals were a chance for young people to meet and size each other up, on a social level, by their clothes, and to see how quickly they got tired, since dances sometimes continued for a long time and involved complex and swift steps that required effort and skill.\n\nThese days, \"Festoù Noz\" are still very popular, mixing the different generations. Most of the villages have a fest-noz at least once a year, organised by the sports clubs, the school, etc... It is a way to express their culture and identity, and to share common values with friends of a night. As in many group folk dances, one talks of sometimes reaching a trance state because of repetitive music, and physical exertion. During the summer and tourist season, in many ways, taking part in a fest-noz is for many people like an alternative way of going to a night club.\n\nThere are hundreds of traditional dances, of which the most well-known are gavottes, the an dro, the 'hanter dro, the plinn and the Scottish. During the fest-noz, most dances are practised in a chain or in a circle (everyone holds hands), but there are also dances in pairs and \"choreographed\" dances, meaning dances enriched with precise artistic elements (sequences, figures, etc.).\n\nThe major study on Breton dancing is \"La tradition populaire de danse en Basse-Bretagne\", book written from his thesis dissertation, by Jean-Michel Guilcher - new edition by Coop-Breizh - Chasse-Marée/Armen - 1995.\n\nThere are principally two types of music at these festivals: music sung a cappella (kan ha diskan, ...), accompanied with music or purely instrumental. Before the invention of microphones and amplified instruments, the instruments that were most often used were the bombarde (a sort of oboe or shawm) and the Breton bagpipes (binioù kozh), due to their high volume. Also popular was the diatonic accordion, the clarinet, and occasionally the violin and the hurdy-gurdy. After the Second World War, the Scottish bagpipes (binioù bras) also became common in Brittany thanks to bagadoù (pipe bands) and thus often replaced the binioù-kozh. The basic clarinet (treujenn-gaol - \"cabbage core\" in Breton) had all but disappeared but has regained popularity over the past few years.\n\nOther than the traditional instruments, there are nowadays groups with many different styles of music ranging from rock, jazz, to punk and also mixes with styles from other countries. String instruments (the violin, the double-bass, the acoustic guitar, the electric guitar, the bass guitar) and North-African percussion instruments have long since been adopted. To varying degrees, some Fest-Noz groups also use electronic keyboards and synthesisers (Strobinell, Sonerien Du, Les Baragouineurs, Plantec...). Brass instruments are becoming increasingly commonplace, often bringing with them sounds approaching those of oriental music.\n\nJust after the revival of the 1970s, the standard was to alternate a couple of singers (a cappella or \"kan a diskan\")and a couple of musicians (biniou - bombarde generally). It was common to see the holding of «free stages». Currently, couples of singers (kanerien) and couples of musicians (sonerien) play alternately with a band. Bands play more instrumental music and often the practice of the dance is different from the two other ways to conduct the dancers.\n\nBetween every \"suite\" (three dances), there is a small break where dancers socialise by speaking very easily to the other dancers or by having a local snack: crêpes, galettes-saucisses, far breton, kouign amann and drinks like cider, beer, and chouchen, a drink made from fermenting honey in water.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26816434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26816434", "title": "Ginetta Junior Championship", "text": "Ginetta Junior Championship\n\nThe Ginetta Junior Championship is a one-make racing series based in the United Kingdom. From the 2010 season teams will use the Ginetta G40, having previously used the Ginetta G20.\n\nThe cars use sealed Ford Zetec 1.8-litre engines, and feature tubular steel chassis, fully integral FIA approved roll cages and fibre-glass shells which ensure safe, controlled racing.\n\nMeetings are usually made up of two 15-minute races. The starting grids for the two races are determined by a 15-minute qualifying session. Each driver's fastest lap in this session sets their starting position for the first race, whilst their second fastest lap sets their starting position for race two.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52127254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52127254", "title": "GirlsAward 2014 Spring/Summer", "text": "GirlsAward 2014 Spring/Summer\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46374393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46374393", "title": "Great Cannon", "text": "Great Cannon\n\nThe Great Cannon of China is an attack tool that is used to launch distributed denial-of-service attacks on websites by intercepting massive amounts of web traffic and redirecting them to targeted websites. According to the researchers at the Citizen Lab, the International Computer Science Institute, and Princeton University's Center for Information Technology Policy, who coined the term, the Great Cannon hijacks foreign web traffic intended for Chinese websites and re-purposes them to flood targeted web servers with enormous amounts of traffic in an attempt to disrupt their operations. While it is co-located with the Great Firewall, the Great Cannon is \"a separate offensive system, with different capabilities and design.\"\n\nBesides launching denial-of-service attacks, the tool is also capable of monitoring web traffic and distributing malware in targeted attacks in ways that are similar to the Quantum Insert system used by the U.S. National Security Agency.\n\nThe first known targets of the Great Cannon (in late March 2015) were websites hosting censorship-evading tools, including GitHub, a web-based code hosting service, and GreatFire, a service monitoring blocked websites in China.\n\n"}
{"id": "36703141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36703141", "title": "Indie Games Uprising", "text": "Indie Games Uprising\n\nThe Indie Games Uprising is a developer led event designed to promote the \"best of the best\" Xbox Live Indie Games. The promotion was originally conceived by Robert Boyd of Zeboyd Games and Ian Stocker of MagicalTimeBean, when they noticed that they both had games coming out in the same time frame.\n\nThe first Indie Games Uprising launched in December 2010. The promotion was curated by developers Robert Boyd and Ian Stocker. Notable releases include Cthulhu Saves the World, \"Soulcaster II\", Decimation X3 by Xona Games, and \"ZP2KX: Zombies & Pterodactyls!\" by Ska Studios. Boyd reported \"spotty results\" from the promotion, and cited developer's inability to set release dates on their games as a major issue. Shortly after the promotion, Microsoft allowed developers to select release dates for their games.\n\nJournalist Dave Voyles and Indie Games Winter Uprising developer Kris Steele of Fun Infused Games coordinated the second Indie Games Uprising. The Indie Games Summer Uprising opened up game submissions to the public, and were then narrowed down through rounds of voting. The Summer Uprising launched on August 22, 2011 and released one title daily from Monday through Friday. While developers reported a varying range of sales, \"Cute Things Dying Violently\" sold over 10,000 copies in its first month of release.\n\nThe Indie Games Uprising III, scheduled to start on September 10, 2012, was curated by developer Michael Hicks and Summer Uprising coordinator Dave Voyles. Hicks expressed his interest in another promotion after he noticed a number of \"exciting\" games would be released around the same time as his own title \"Sententia\". Notable games include \"Gateways\" by the creator of The Adventures of Shuggy, and \"qrth-phyl\" from hermitgames, developer of the critically acclaimed \"Leave Home\".\n\nLaunched on September 28, 2015, the Uprising aimed to highlight developers who started their career on Xbox Live Indie Games or gained something from publishing on the channel. Multiple games from previous Uprisings are featured, along with former XBLIG developers that are working on new projects for Xbox One, PlayStation 4 and Wii U.\n\nThough not officially involved, Microsoft has supported the Indie Games Uprisings with front page dashboard promotions on Xbox Live.\n"}
{"id": "28710400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28710400", "title": "Internationale Maifestspiele Wiesbaden", "text": "Internationale Maifestspiele Wiesbaden\n\nThe Internationale Maifestspiele Wiesbaden (International May Festival, IMF) is a theater festival in Wiesbaden, Germany. Established in the late 19th century after the Bayreuth Festival, the festival is one of the most distinguished international theatre and music festivals in the world. It is presented annually in May at the Hessisches Staatstheater Wiesbaden, the State Theatre of Hesse in the capital Wiesbaden. The festival currently features performances of operas, ballets, plays and musicals. Visiting companies, mostly from European theaters, present their recent productions along with performances of the Theater Wiesbaden. Concerts from a wide array of music genres are featured as well as artistic circus acts and modern dance presentations. Lectures, recitals, cabaret performances, art showings and readings are also part of the program.\n\nIn 1896 the festival was established as \"Kaiserfestspiele\" (Imperial Festival) by Georg von Hülsen, director of the theater in Wiesbaden. He wanted to create a festival to compare with the successful Bayreuth Festival. A festival in Spring was supposed to coincide with the emperor's regular stay at the spa to create a cultural event. The director also wanted to improve the status of his \"Neues königliches Hoftheater\" (New Royal Court Theatre), which relied mostly on productions from the Royal theater in Berlin. The first festival was presented from 6 to 19 May 1896, with the German emperor William I and the empress Augusta of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach in attendance. The posters and programs showed \"Festspiele auf allerhöchsten Befehl!\" (Festival by the very highest order!), referring to the emperor's demand. In the beginning the focus was on the works of Richard Wagner as in Bayreuth, but different from Bayreuth works of other composers were also performed, such as Carl Maria von Weber's \"Oberon\" in 1900. The festival closed for the duration of World War I.\n\nIn 1928, the first festival after the war was staged by the director Paul Bekker and called \"Mai-Festwoche\" (Festival week in May). It presented on 6 May the premiere of three short operas by Ernst Krenek, \"Der Diktator\", \"Das geheime Königreich\" and \"Schwergewicht, oder Die Ehre der Nation\". In 1929 the festival was called \"Festwochen im Mai\" (Festive Weeks in May). His main concern was to stress the achievement of the Wiesbaden theatre. From 4 to 21 May 1929 the festival presented the opera \"Die ägyptische Helena\" of Richard Strauss, which had premiered the year before at the Semperoper.\n\nUnder Nazism, the festival was held until 1939 as part of the \"Gaukulturwochen\". The director was Carl von Schirach.\n\nIn 1950 the first festival after World War II was the first with an international approach, reflected in the new name. The festival was held annually since then. Traditionally the festival was opened by a new production of the Wiesbaden theatre. Starting in 1962, director Claus Helmut Drese encouraged presentations from Eastern European companies under the Motto \"Fenster nach Osten\" (window to the East). Guest productions of operas and ballets from Warsaw, Leningrad, Sofia, Bucharest, Moscow and the great theatres of former East Germany took place at the festival. Claus Leininger, director from 1986 to 1994, invited companies from Northern Europe, Spain and North America. In 1989, when Germany was still divided, the Berlin companies Deutsche Oper Berlin from West Berlin and Komische Oper Berlin from East Berlin both showed their productions. Visiting ensembles from Eastern Europe increased even more after the opening of the Iron curtain. Plays have been performed by the Berliner Ensemble, the Schaubühne, Deutsches Theater and the Münchner Kammerspiele, among others. Ballet companies have included Cloud Gate Dance Theatre from Taiwan, the Tanztheater Pina Bausch, Wuppertal, the Cullberg Ballet from Sweden, Les Ballets de Monte Carlo and the Nederlands Dans Theater. Young audiences have been addressed by the series of plays \"Junge Woche\" (Young Week). Due to restricted funding in recent years the program was reduced, shifting to younger and more experimental performers.\n\nIn 1955 the stage version of Hans Vogt's socalled Oratorische Oper (oratorio opera) \"Die Stadt hinter dem Strom\" after the novel of Hermann Kasack was premiered.\n\nIn 1962 the Opera Warsaw presented as the first visiting company from Eastern Europe the opera \"The Haunted Manor\" of Stanisław Moniuszko. Works of the 20th century have included Strawinsky's \"Le sacre du printemps\" and \"Oedipus rex\" and Arthur Honegger's \"Judith\".\n\nAt the 1989 festival, the Deutsche Oper Berlin visited with three productions, the opening night was Verdi's \"Rigoletto\", staged by Hans Neuenfels and conducted by Silvio Varviso, followed by Janáček's \"Katja Kabanowa\" and the ballet \"Der Blaue Engel\". Hartmut Haenchen conducted Handel's opera \"Giustino\" in a production of the Komische Oper Berlin staged by Harry Kupfer, with Jochen Kowalski in the title role. The Bolshoi Theatre presented Borodin's \"Prince Igor\" and Mussorgsky's Khovanshchina, both conducted by Alexander Lazarev.\n\nIn 2008 the Teatro Regio Torino visited with Verdi's \"Rigoletto\".\n\nIn 2009, Theater Wiesbaden opened with Salome, Verdi's \"Nabucco\" was performed by the Teatro Regio di Parma.\n\nThe opening performance in 2010 was Alban Berg's \"Lulu\", on the program for the opening of the 2011 festival on 30 April 2011 was the premiere of Ernst August Klötzke's opera \"Beatrice\" and the first performance in German of Rodion Shchedrin's literary opera \"Lolita\", based on Nabokov's novel, produced by the Theater Wiesbaden with Emma Pearson in the title role, in the presence of the composer. On the 2011 festival program are performances of the farewell tour of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company.\n\nThe Maifestspiele 2010 had 20,700 visitors, 90.4% of the available seating capacity was sold. The budget for 2011 comprises €1,432,200.\n\n"}
{"id": "58338392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58338392", "title": "Israel '98 World Stamp Exhibition", "text": "Israel '98 World Stamp Exhibition\n\nThe Israel '98 World Stamp Exhibition was an international stamp exhibition held from 13–21 May 1998 at the Israel Trade Fairs and Convention Center in Tel Aviv, Israel. The exhibition was granted patronage from the Fédération Internationale de Philatélie (FIP).\n\nThe Grand Prix awards went to the following exhibits:\n\nThe Grand Prix d'Honneur was received by Edgar Kuphal from Germany for: \"Hamburg\".\nThe Grand Prix International was received by Gene Scott from United States for: \"Uruguay: the \"Sun\" Issues, 1856-1862\".\nThe Grand Prix National was received by Joseph Hackmey from Israel for: \"Holyland - Ottoman Period\".\n"}
{"id": "15792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15792", "title": "January 28", "text": "January 28\n\n\n"}
{"id": "874991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=874991", "title": "Jinan incident", "text": "Jinan incident\n\nThe Jinan (Tsinan) incident () or May 3 Tragedy () was an armed conflict between the Imperial Japanese Army and the Kuomintang's Northern Expedition army in Jinan (then romanized as Tsinan), the capital of East China's Shandong province in May 1928.\n\nDuring the Northern Expedition, troops of the Chinese National Revolutionary Army attacked several foreign consulates in a fervor of anti-imperialism in what became known as the Nanking Incident of March 1927. Chiang Kai-shek sought to avoid repetition of such incidents, and in November 1927 he met with Baron Tanaka Giichi, who had become Japan's prime minister in April of that year (and also held the portfolio of Foreign Minister), in part on the strength of promises to take more active and aggressive measures than his predecessor toward protection of Japanese lives, property and economic interests in China. Chiang had only a tenuous hold on power in China and relied in large measure on the promise to end foreign domination and re-unify the country to buttress his legitimacy.\n\nTanaka realized that the use of force was not necessarily the best way to protect Japanese interests, and Chiang wanted to keep his troops away from Jinan and the risks of a costly but useless clash. With no guarantee that the Chinese National Revolutionary Army would bypass Jinan, prior political commitments and Imperial Japanese Army insistence forced Tanaka to reinforce Japanese forces in the Shandong leased territory. Between May and September 1927, some 4000 troops were deployed to Qingdao and Jinan in what was known in Japan as the . Both the northern warlord coalition government in Beijing (Peking) and the Kuomintang government in Nanjing (Nanking) protested vigorously that this was a violation of China's sovereignty, and the Japanese forces were withdrawn when Chiang temporarily halted his northern advance.\n\nWhen the Northern Expedition resumed on April 27, contrary to his standing orders from Tokyo, Japanese commander Gen. Fukuda Hikosuke moved troops from Tianjin into Ji'nan and Qingtao along the Jiaoji Railway. This was known in Japanese as the . Northern Chinese troops under Zhang Zongchang withdrew from the city on April 30, and Kuomintang troops—also acting contrary to Chiang Kai-shek’s orders—moved in. Matters remained tense as the Japanese took up positions at the Japanese consulate and various Japanese-controlled businesses and schools, but the situation remained reasonably quiet and amicable until a minor clash occurred near the home of a Japanese family on May 3, resulting in the deaths of 12 Japanese civilians. The British Acting Consul-General reported that he had seen the bodies of Japanese males who had been castrated. Japanese reports blamed the shooting on troops under Gen. He Yaozu (賀耀祖), reputed to have been responsible for the Nanjing Incident, while Chinese reports held that Chinese soldiers had been attacked by Japanese. Leaders on both sides agreed on a truce and a cease-fire, and the Japanese consul general in the city pushed for peace. Gen. Fukuda and his fellow generals, however, perhaps motivated by the desire for action, felt that they could not let the \"insult\" to Japanese honor go unpunished, but did not take action until they had built up stocks of food and ammunition.\n\nChiang Kai-shek judged it more important for his troops to move on to Peking than to fight in Jinan and sent a team of officers to negotiate. On May 7 Gen. Fukuda issued a five-point set of demands so onerous that the Chinese would have no choice but to refuse, with a 12-hour deadline. He refused to release the negotiators, including Cai Gongshi and 16 others in his team. When commissioner Cai protested in Japanese, his nose, ears, and tongue were cut off, and his eyes were gouged out before he was executed. Sixteen other members of his negotiation team were also stripped naked, whipped, dragged to the back lawn and slaughtered by machine guns on the same day.\nHaving received reinforcements and supplies, by May 11 the Japanese, after fierce fighting, pushed Chinese troops from the area and inflicted thousands of casualties, as well as killing over 2000 Chinese civilians.\n\nPublicly, Chiang did not apologize to the Japanese but did remove the Chinese commander He; in his diary he expressed his new feeling that Japan was China's greatest enemy. However, \"before one can settle scores,\" he wrote, \"one must be strong.\"\n\nIn May 1928 a Chinese man infuriated about the incident killed 11 people and himself in the Japanese city of Kobe. If the incident had been an isolated example of Japanese assertion and Chinese resistance, a general understanding might have been reached. However, Chiang's troops expanded their control in northern China and the Japanese army continued to distrust the forces of Chinese nationalism. Japanese army leaders feared that Chiang would respond to patriotic agitation and threaten their interests in south Manchuria. On June 4, as he rode in a special train, Zhang Zuolin, the military leader of Manchuria who had been talking about joining forces with Chiang, was killed in an explosion, later linked to officers of the Japanese army, setting off a chain of events leading to the seizure of Manchuria and the establishment of Manchukuo. When Chiang lectured a group of Chinese army cadets, he urged them to turn their energies to washing away the shame of Jinan, but to conceal their hatred until the last moment. The Kuomintang government later decreed that May 3 be designated a \"National Humiliation Memorial Day.\"\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "3552134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3552134", "title": "Johnnie High's Country Music Revue", "text": "Johnnie High's Country Music Revue\n\nThe Johnnie High's Country Music Revue is a weekly variety show held at the Arlington Music Hall in Arlington, Texas in the Dallas Fort Worth Metroplex. It helps to showcase local talent; Old or young. It was created by Johnnie High, a singer, musician, songwriter and businessman. The Revue began in 1974. High had purchased a former movie theater in 1994 and turned into the Arlington Music Hall as the permanent place for the weekly country music show.\n\nThe revue has been a success for thirty-one years. It features a seven-member cast, a band and back-up singers. It introduces at least 20 or 25 different performers. The show opens up every Friday and Saturday. Country music fans from all over the world have gone to the revue to see amazing talent.\n\nThe show also has different themes. The show might open up with a 1950s theme or a Big Band theme. The show has a rotating talent roster that hold open auditions three times a year.\n\nOver the years, Johnnie High's Country Music Revue has opened the door for many famous people such as Kelly Clarkson, LeAnn Rimes, Lee Ann Womack, Gary Morris, Box Car Willie, Wanda Jackson, Kitty Wells, Tommy Cash and many others. His granddaughter, Ashley Smith, is a regular performer on the show and helps play co-host.\n\nThey hold shows such as Fabulous 50s shows, Legends shows, Incredible Kids, New Faces shows and gospel concerts.\n\nThe revue is a four-time winner of the Live Country Music Show of the Year by the National Organization of Country Music Associations.\n\nHamm, Dorothy \"Johnnie High - People Told Him It Wouldn't Work\" Article September 9, 2005 column for Texas Escapes.com\n"}
{"id": "36844313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36844313", "title": "Jolson Tonight", "text": "Jolson Tonight\n\nJolson Tonight is a musical with a book by Nicholas Dante. The musical is based on the life of Al Jolson.\n\nNicholas Dante was hired by producer Jeff Britton to write \"Jolson Tonight\" after his previous Al Jolson musical, \"Joley\", failed in spring 1979. The show was written in a similar fashion to \"A Chorus Line\", Dante's previous musical, by having a series of recorded conversations with star Larry Kert about the public and private life of Al Jolson. \n\nThe show was doing a pre-Broadway trial in five cities in the 1980 in preparation for a run on Broadway. The backers' audition was held in July 1979 to about 200 spectators. Rehearsals started in June 1980, and the cost was $1.4 million with a cast of 30. The show opened on July 21, 1980 in Indianapolis. The tryout was supposed to play there for a week followed by week-long runs in Kansas City, New Orleans, St. Louis and Tulsa. The set was designed by Michael Bottari and Ronald Case, who along with director Michael Shawn created many of the visual concepts. The costumes were designed by Donna Granata.\n\nThe creative team included Pierre Cardin, a fashion designer, who was trying to get the show to Broadway, produced by Salvatore Pirrone, directed and choreographed by Michael Shawn, and starring Larry Kert.\n\nThe show is said to have closed because no Broadway theatres were available at the time.\n\n"}
{"id": "9925526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9925526", "title": "Kobe Collection", "text": "Kobe Collection\n\nThe is a fashion event that has been held in Kobe, Japan and other cities during spring and autumn every year since 2002; over 30 brands have participated. It is characteristically a public relations event for consumers, and a chance for young designers to publish their own designs. \n\nIn the second half of the 19th century, there were many trading companies and banks that made inroads into Kobe, and the comparatively wealthy families who worked for these companies, tended to live on the mountain side of Kobe and Ashiya. Originally the Kobe fashion-style was seen in children of such wealthy families. The fashion-style was characterized by the refined everyday wear which in quiet colors (navy blue, black, white and gray), in contrast to the popular style for girls in Osaka. From around 1990, many Japanese women's magazines came to take up this style, because it is known to look refined and cute by women in their teens and early 20s. A magazine named Kobe Style focuses on the style trends of Kobe. \n\nThe mode of \"Kobe-Style\" has somewhat changed, although it is expressed as a pronoun of a conservative fashion in Japan currently, it has been popular among young Japanese girls. Kobe collection has held a strong social background in Japan and surrounding east-Asian countries; In 2007, Kobe collection was held in Shanghai, Yokohama, and in Kobe. \n\nAnd Kobe collection will hold in Second Life, an Internet-based virtual world developed by Linden Research, Inc (commonly referred to as Linden Lab).\n\n"}
{"id": "83446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83446", "title": "Latrun", "text": "Latrun\n\nLatrun (, \"Latrun\"; , \"al-Latrun\") is located at a strategic hilltop in the Latrun salient in the Ayalon Valley. It overlooks the road between Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, 25 kilometers west of Jerusalem and 14 kilometers southeast of Ramla. It was the site of fierce fighting during the 1948 war. During the 1948–1967 period, it was occupied by Jordan at the edge of a no man's land between the armistice lines known as the Latrun salient. In the 1967 war, it was captured by Israel along with the whole salient and the West Bank, and remains under Israeli occupation.\n\nThe hilltop includes the Trappist Latrun Abbey, Mini Israel, a park with scale models of historic buildings around Israel, The International Center for the Study of Bird Migration (ICSBM), which is adjacent to Yad La-Shiryon Memorial and Museum. Neve Shalom (Oasis of Peace) is a joint Jewish-Arab community on a hilltop south of Latrun. Canada Park is nearby to the east.\n\nThe name Latrun is ultimately derived from the ruins of a medieval castle. There are two theories regarding the origin of the name. One is that it is a corruption of the French, \"Le toron\" des chevaliers (\"The Castle\" of the Knights), named by the Crusaders. The other is that it is from the Latin, Domus boni \"Latronis\" (The House of the Good \"Thief\"), a name given by 14th century Christian pilgrims after the penitent thief who was crucified by the Romans alongside Jesus ().\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible, the Ayalon Valley was the site of a battle in which the Israelites, led by Joshua, defeated the Amorites (Joshua 10:1–11). Later, Judah Maccabee established his camp here in preparation for battle with the Seleucid Greeks, who had invaded Israel/Judea and were camped at Emmaus; this site is today identified by archaeologists as Hurvat Eked. According to the Book of Maccabees, Judah Maccabee learned that the Greeks were planning to march on his position, and successfully ambushed the invaders. The Jewish victory in what was later called the Battle of Emmaus led to greater Jewish autonomy under Hasmonean rule over the next century.\n\nLittle remains of the castle, which was held by the Templars by 1187. The main tower was later surrounded with a rectangular enclosure with vaulted chambers. This in turn was enclosed by an outer court, of which one tower survives.\n\nIn 1883, the Palestine Exploration Fund's \"Survey of Western Palestine\" (SWP) described Latrun as a few adobe huts among the ruins of a medieval fortress.\n\nIn December 1890, a monastery was established at Latrun by French, German and Flemish monks of the Trappists, from Sept-Fons Abbey in France, at the request of Monseigneur Poyet of the Latin Patriarchate of Jerusalem. The monastery is dedicated to Our Lady of the Seven Sorrows. The liturgy is in French. The monks bought the 'Maccabee Hotel', formerly called 'The Howard' from the Batato brothers together with two-hundred hectares of land and started the community in a building which still stands in the monastic domain. In 1909 it was given the status of a Priory and that of an Abbey in 1937. The monks established a vineyard using knowledge gained in France and advice from an expert in the employ of Baron Edmond James de Rothschild from the Carmel-Mizrahi Winery. Today they produce a wide variety of wines that are sold in the Abbey shop and elsewhere.\n\nThe community was expelled by the Ottoman Turks between 1914–1918 and the buildings pillaged.\n\nWalid Khalidi in his book \"All That Remains\" describes al-Latrun as a small village established in the late 19th century by villagers from nearby Emmaus.\n\nIn the 1922 census of Palestine, conducted by the British Mandate authorities, \"Latrun\" had a population of 59, all Muslims. In addition, \"Dair Latrun\" (\"The monastery of Latrun\") had a population of 37 Christian males. In the 1931 census they were counted together, and Latrun had a population 120; 76 Muslims and 44 Christians, in a total of 16 houses.\nThe Latrun monastery was rebuilt in 1926. The crypt was completed in 1933 and the church in 1954. The monastery was designed by the community's first abbot, Dom Paul Couvreur, and is an example of Cistercian architecture. Much of the stained-glass windows were produced by a monk of the community.\n\nA Juniorate, a school for young boys, ran from 1931 until 1963 and provided many vocations for the community, especially of Lebanese monks.\n\nFollowing the 1936–39 Arab revolt, the British authorities built a number of police forts (named Tegart forts after their designer) at various locations; Latrun was chosen due to its strategic significance, particularly its dominant position above the Tel-Aviv-Jerusalem road. Many members of the Yishuv who had resisted the British administration were imprisoned in a detention camp at Latrun. Moshe Sharett, later Israel's second Prime Minister, and several other members of the Jewish Agency's Executive Committee, were held at Latrun for several months in 1946.\n\nAs of the 1945 statistics, the population of the Latrun village had grown to 190 Christians, with a total of 8,376 dunams of land. Of this, a total of 6,705 dunams were used for cereals, 439 dunams were irrigated or used for orchards, 7 for citrus and bananas, while 4 dunams were classified as built-up public areas.\nThe road from the coastal plain to Jerusalem was blocked after the British withdrew and handed the fort of Latrun over to Jordan's Arab Legion. The Arab Legionnaires used the fort to shell Israeli vehicles traveling on the road below, effectively imposing a military siege on Jerusalem and the Jewish residents there, despite that the United Nations plan was to keep Jerusalem as an international zone with neither Jordan, Israel, nor the Palestinian Arab Higher Committee having sovereignty over it.\n\nOn 24 May 1948, ten days after the Israeli Declaration of Independence per the United Nations General Assembly's Resolution 181 and the Arab assaults against Israel which followed, the Jordanian Legion's fort was assaulted by combined forces of Israel's newly created 7th Armored Brigade, and a battalion of the Alexandroni Brigade. Ariel Sharon, then a platoon commander, was wounded at Latrun along with many of his soldiers. The assault, codenamed Operation Bin Nun Alef (24–25 May), was unsuccessful, sustaining heavy casualties. On 31 May 1948, a second attack against the fort, codenamed Operation Bin Nun Bet, also failed, although the outer defenses had been breached.\n\nMany of the Israeli fighters were young Holocaust survivors who had just arrived in the country and had minimal military training. The official casualty figure for both battles was 139.\n\nTo circumvent the blocked road, a makeshift camouflaged road through the seemingly impassable mountains towards Jerusalem was constructed under the command of Mickey (David) Marcus. This bypassed the main routes overlooked by Latrun and was named the Burma Road after its emergency supply-line namesake between Kumming (China) and Lashio (Burma), improvised by the Allies in World War II. By 10 June 1948, the road was fully operational, putting an end to the month -old Arab blockade.\n\nOn 2 August, the Truce Commission drew the attention of the Security Council to the Arabs' refusal to allow water and food supplies to reach Jerusalem. After much negotiation, it was agreed that United Nations convoys would transport supplies, but the convoys often came under sniper fire. Towards the end of August, the situation improved. The destruction of the Latrun pumping station made it impossible for water in adequate quantities to flow to Jerusalem, but the Israelis built an auxiliary water pipe-line of small capacity along the \"Burma Road\" which provided a minimum amount of water.\n\nAfter Operation Danny, Israeli forces anticipated a Jordanian counterattack, possibly from Latrun, but King Abdullah remained within the bounds of the tacit agreement made with the Jewish Agency and kept his troops at Latrun.\n\nIn the 1949 Armistice Agreements, the fort remained a salient under Jordanian control, which was in turn surrounded by a perimeter of no man's land. Under the cease-fire agreement, Jordan was not to disrupt Israeli travelers using this road; in practice, constant sniper attacks led Israel to build a bypass road around the bulge.\n\nThe Palestinian Arab residents of Latrun were evacuated to Imwas in 1949 as a result of the war and Latrun's location on the 1949 armistice line.\n\nIn the Six-Day War in 1967, Latrun was captured by the Israeli Defense Forces, and the main-road to Jerusalem was re-opened and made safe for travel. The villages of Imwas, Yalo and Bayt Nuba were razed, their residents taking refuge in the West Bank and Jordan, and Canada Park was established on the land.\n\nThe Latrun monastic community allowed two communities, Neve Shalom/Wahat as-Salam and the , to be established on its land.\nThe Tegart Fort became the Yad La-Shiryon memorial for fallen soldiers of the Israeli Armored Corps and a Museum was established there.\n\n"}
{"id": "1389058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1389058", "title": "List of Meredith Music Festival lineups by year", "text": "List of Meredith Music Festival lineups by year\n\nThis is a list of Meredith Music Festival lineups by year:\n"}
{"id": "9176078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9176078", "title": "Lovefest", "text": "Lovefest\n\nLovefest (or Heineken Lovefest for sponsorship reasons) is a summer music festival which is held in Vrnjačka Banja, Serbia.\n\nThe festival was founded in 2007 as the electronic music festival, and was ever since organized by group of local youth. Over the last few years, festival had many globally popular performers, including Maceo Plex, Loco Dice, Green Velvet and others.\n\nIn 2017, Lovefest attracted 100,000 visitors. For 2017, it was nominated for the \"Best Medium-Sized Festival\" by European Festivals Awards (EFA).\n\n"}
{"id": "35985320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35985320", "title": "Miami cannibal attack", "text": "Miami cannibal attack\n\nOn May 26, 2012, a nude assailant, Rudy Eugene, attacked and maimed Ronald Poppo, a homeless man, on the MacArthur Causeway in Miami, Florida, making headlines worldwide. During the 18-minute filmed encounter, Eugene accused Poppo of stealing his Bible, beat him unconscious, removed Poppo's pants, and bit off most of Poppo's face above the beard (including his left eye), leaving him blind in both eyes. As a result of the incident's shocking nature and subsequent worldwide media coverage, Eugene came to be dubbed the \"Miami Zombie\" and the \"Causeway Cannibal\". The attack ended when Eugene was fatally shot by a Miami PD officer.\n\nAlthough friends and family filled in details of Eugene's life, the reason for the attack remains unclear. Eugene, 31, employed at a car wash at the time, was a divorced former high school football player with a series of petty criminal arrests from age 16, with the last in 2009. Poppo, 65, a graduate of Manhattan's Stuyvesant High School, was homeless and had long been presumed dead by his estranged family. While police sources speculated that the use of a street drug like \"bath salts\" might have been a factor, experts expressed doubt, since toxicology reports were only able to identify marijuana in Eugene's system, leaving the ultimate cause of his behavior unknown.\n\nOn the morning of May 26, 2012, 31-year-old Rudy Eugene drove to Miami Beach, Florida, to Urban Beach Week. His Haitian-flag-draped purple Chevrolet Caprice became disabled along the way. After spending 30–40 minutes at the site, as filmed on security video in and around the car, he abandoned it about noon, and began to cross the span of the MacArthur Causeway, stripping himself of his clothing and disposing of his driver’s license as he advanced westward, according to eyewitnesses. His vehicle was eventually discovered and towed by Miami Beach police. Inside the car, police discovered a Bible and five empty water bottles, which they believed had been recently consumed.\n\nEugene—who eventually became completely naked, discarding even his shoes and his Bible at the crime scene—encountered 65-year-old Ronald Poppo at approximately 1:55 pm. Poppo had been lying underneath the elevated Metromover people-mover viaduct when Eugene began to pummel him, strip him of his pants, and bite his face. The attack unfolded at the west end of the MacArthur Causeway, near the headquarters of \"The Miami Herald\" in the Arts & Entertainment District neighborhood of Downtown Miami. It was at first believed that neither Eugene nor Poppo knew the other before their encounter, until a July 2012 publication revealed that Eugene had met Poppo while working for the homeless community of Miami. A passing cyclist, Larry Vega, came upon the scene and alerted authorities via 9-1-1. A few minutes later, Miami Police Department officer Jose Ramirez arrived and, after doing a double take at the spectacle, warned Eugene to desist from attacking Poppo. Eugene ignored the officer's warnings and, instead, reportedly growled at him, then resumed biting his victim. The attack ended at 2:13 pm with Officer Ramirez shooting Eugene once at first and then another four times when that proved ineffective. The ordeal was captured by a security camera on \"The Miami Herald\" building. Surveillance video shows that the attack continued for 18 minutes before help arrived.\n\nPoppo was admitted to Jackson Memorial Hospital in critical condition, with 75–80% of his face above the beard missing and his left eye gouged out. He underwent facial reconstruction surgeries that took months to complete, but he remained permanently disfigured and blind. To help with the costs, a fund was set up and has collected $100,700 since July 17, 2012. Poppo spoke to police, whom he thanked for saving his life, on July 19, explaining that Eugene, whom he hardly knew, approached him in a friendly manner but then, complaining he couldn't \"score\" at the beach and \"souped up on something\", started to talk about how they were going to die, accused Poppo of stealing his Bible, and, suddenly and without provocation, attacked and strangled him with wrestling holds, and then \"plucked out\" both his eyes.\n\nPoppo lost his eyebrows, his nose, parts of his forehead and cheek, and his left eye, and was left totally blind due to the damage to his remaining right eye. He underwent numerous surgeries to repair the damage to his face. After rehabilitation, he put on 50 pounds, and relearned how to dress, feed himself, shower, and shave. He was granted permission to stay at the medical facility indefinitely.\n\nAs a result of media attention, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) released a statement saying that the \"CDC does not know of a virus or condition that would reanimate the dead (or one that would present zombie-like symptoms).\"\n\nAlthough the autopsy revealed no human flesh in Eugene's stomach, a number of undigested pills were discovered that have not been identified. Although police sources had speculated that the street drug \"bath salts\" might have been involved, preliminary toxicology reports were positive only for the presence of cannabis. Authorities did not necessarily find the negative results conclusive; Broward County Sheriff Al Lamberti expressed a belief that some new drug not yet tested for played a role; nationally noted toxicologist Barry Logan said Eugene's behavior was consistent with \"bath salts\" and that toxicologists \"are not testing for everything that may be out there\"; and the director of toxicology at the University of Florida, Dr. Bruce Goldberger, said, \"We are not incompetent...We have the tools, we have the sophistication and know-how. But the field is evolving so rapidly it is hard for us to keep track. It's almost as if it is a race we can never win.\"\nRudy Eugene (February 4, 1981 – May 26, 2012) was born at the Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami, Florida. He was of Haitian descent through his immigrant parents, who divorced months after his birth. Eugene never made contact with his father, who died when he was six. As a child he attended the Bethel Evangelical Baptist Church with his families on most Sundays. Eugene attended North Miami Beach High School in the 10th and 11th grades, and he played on its football team in the late 1990s. At the age of 17, he transferred to North Miami High School. After graduating, Eugene acquired money from such sources as selling CDs and jobs at McDonald’s and in telemarketing. His last known employment was washing cars at a local automobile dealership. Eugene had expressed interest in establishing his own mobile car wash business.\n\nEugene's marriage, from 2005 to 2008, ended in divorce, with his wife reporting that there had been domestic violence in the relationship. The divorce was granted on January 8, 2008, and there were no children from their relationship. Eugene was estranged from his ex-wife until his death.\n\nEugene had been arrested eight times since he was 16, with the first arrest being for an assault in 1997. On February 25, 2004, Eugene broke a table, smashed items around the house, and pushed his mother out of the kitchen. Afterward, his mother told officers that he had said, \"I'll put a gun to your head and kill you.\" This crime led to his serving probation for resisting an officer without violence. The remaining charges were mainly related to marijuana, which he had expressed a desire to quit. His final arrest was in September 2009.\n\nRonald Edward Poppo (born May 17, 1947) was born and raised in Brooklyn, New York. He attended Manhattan's prestigious Stuyvesant High School, where he was a member of the Latin Club and worked in the guidance office. A former classmate reported that, after high school, Poppo enrolled at nearby City College but he dropped out in late 1966.\nPoppo would become homeless in early 1976. On May 24, 2012, two days before the attack, workers from the Miami Homeless Assistance Program discovered him and offered him the services of the Miami-Dade County Homeless Trust. Poppo declined assistance, however.\n\nAt the time of the attack, Poppo's family—including his daughter—had not heard from him in over 30 years. During that time, they assumed that Poppo was dead and suspected that he had killed himself. They were shocked to learn he was still alive at the time of the incident. Poppo has since completed treatment and was last residing in a Medicaid facility. He received nutritional and occupational therapy and took up the guitar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13870049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13870049", "title": "Microwave International New Media Arts Festival", "text": "Microwave International New Media Arts Festival\n\nMicrowave International New Media Arts Festival (微波國際新媒體藝術節）is a new media art festival based in Hong Kong. It began in 1996 as the annual video art festival for local video art collective Videotage.\n\nIn 2006, it became independent from Videotage and in 2007 it officially became fully independent as the government's previous \"presenter\" role was handed over to Microwave. The government remains the main sponsor of the Festival, although many more sponsors are sought for each year's Festival. \n\nThe annual festival generally includes a main exhibition at the Hong Kong City Hall, a smaller scale and usually more alternative exhibition in a separate venue, a keynote conference, performances, screening programmes and other special events organised each year. \n\nIn 2007, the performance by US art collective Graffiti Research Lab that \"hacked the city\" with their L.A.S.E.R.T.A.G along with the participation of local graffiti artist MC Yan, they achieved a record-breaking tag 1,200 metres \"across\" Victoria Harbour (James Powderly and MC Yan tagging from Central ferry, with Evan Roth and the local crew controlling the set up in front of the Cultural Centre in Tsim Sha Tsui).\n\nIn its first extended event outside of the annual November Festival, Microwave also held the \"A-Glow-Glow\" Macro Interactive Media Art Exhibition in April 2008, which was funded by the Hong Kong Arts Development Council and aimed for more mass appeal. Two large-scale interactive LED artworks were placed by the Tsim Sha Tsui waterfront, right across the harbour from the Hong Kong City Hall, where the annual festival main exhibition is held.\n\nMicrowave's festival design, by local design partner Milkxhake, also consistently wins design awards almost every year since their partnership commenced. \n\nNature Transformer (自然反）\n\nTransient Creatures (異生界）\n\n \"A-Glow-Glow\" Macro Interactive Media Art Exhibition\n\n\"A-Glow-Glow\" was held by the waterfront in Tsim Sha Tsui (Kowloon Peninsula), with two interactive LED installations by two artist groups:\n\n\nLuminous Echo (形光譜)\n"}
{"id": "4914846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4914846", "title": "Music Hall Aberdeen", "text": "Music Hall Aberdeen\n\nThe Music Hall is a concert hall in Aberdeen, Scotland, formerly the city's Assembly Rooms, located on Union Street in the city centre.\n\nThe venue was designed by Archibald Simpson, a notable Aberdeen architect, and cost £11,500 (approximately US$19,531 according to May 2014 exchange rates) when it was originally constructed in 1822. It was opened to the public as a concert hall in 1859 and was extensively renovated in the 1980s.\n\nThe Music Hall regularly plays host to the Royal Scottish National Orchestra, the Scottish Chamber Orchestra and the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra, the annual Aberdeen International Youth Festival, and various pop/rock artists, such as East Kilbride, Scotland musician Roddy Frame, who will play at the venue in December 2014. \n\n"}
{"id": "8847883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8847883", "title": "Nagasaki Kunchi", "text": "Nagasaki Kunchi\n\n, also or , is the most famous festival in Nagasaki, Japan. It began as a celebration of autumn harvests in the late 16th century and became a shrine festival when Suwa Shrine was founded in 1642. Another purpose was to check for hidden Christians after the ban on Christianity. This is still evident today in the custom of , when the presenting neighbourhoods open up their homes to public scrutiny. One of the most famous performances of the festival is the Dragon Dance which was originally performed on New Year's Eve by the Chinese residents of Nagasaki. Rehearsals for the festival begin on June 1. From October 7-9 the presentations of the festival, which vividly reflect Nagasaki's colourful history, spill over from the three festival sites into the streets and create an atmosphere of celebration throughout the city.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44515702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44515702", "title": "Novynar", "text": "Novynar\n\nNovynar (meaning \"Newsmaker\" in English) was a Ukrainian language news magazine briefly published in Kiev, Ukraine, from 2007 to 2008.\n\n\"Novynar\" was first published in August 2007. The website was also launched in the same date. It was established as a quality alternative to Russian language news magazines in the country.\n\nThe magazine was part of the KP Media which also owned \"Kyiv Post\". It was published weekly in Kiev.\n\nThe KP media reported the initial circulation of \"Novynar\" as 15,000 copies in August 2007.\n\n\"Novynar\" ceased publication in November 2008 due to financial problems faced.\n\n"}
{"id": "394779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=394779", "title": "Ozzfest", "text": "Ozzfest\n\nOzzfest is an annual festival tour of the United States and sometimes Europe (and for the first time Japan in 2013) featuring performances by many heavy metal and hard rock musical groups. It was founded by Ozzy Osbourne and his wife Sharon Osbourne, both of whom also organise each yearly tour with their son Jack Osbourne. The Ozzfest tour has featured bands of a variety of genres within heavy metal and hard rock, including alternative metal, thrash metal, industrial metal, metalcore, hardcore punk, deathcore, nu metal, death metal, post-hardcore, gothic metal and black metal. Ozzy Osbourne and Black Sabbath have played the tour several times over the years.\n\nThe festival was created in 1996 by Ozzy Osbourne's wife and manager, Sharon Osbourne, after she was rebuffed by Lollapalooza when she tried to get Ozzy on that festival circuit. The tour was well-received, which prompted the festival to become a yearly occurrence.\n\nThe first Ozzfest was not a national tour, but rather a two-day festival held in Phoenix, Arizona and Devore, California on 25 and 26 October 1996 respectively.\n\nIn 1997, there were large protests outside of the festival to cancel Marilyn Manson's performance. However, no dates were cancelled. There were also protests of a similar nature in 2001, following the Columbine High School massacre, which some groups had blamed on Marilyn Manson.\n\nIn 1998, Ozzfest ventured outside the United States for the first time into the United Kingdom, which featured a different line-up of bands. The festival would eventually return to the UK in 2001 and 2002.\n\nThe concert on 18 July 1998 at Float Rite Park was merged with Warped Tour 1998. Some 39,000 fans were at the 12-hour, six-stage, 48-band event.\n\nIn the early 2000s, artists and bands including Slipknot, Kittie, Pantera, Marilyn Manson, Mudvayne, Godsmack, Rob Zombie, Incubus, Linkin Park, System of a Down, Chevelle, P.O.D., and Disturbed played the yearly music festival. Two compilation albums of the Ozzfest tour were released, one covering select 2001 performances and another for 2002.\n\nOn-stage footage of the Ozzfest 2004 tour was shown on MTV, as Ozzy and Sharon hosted a show on the network titled \"Battle for Ozzfest\" where they chose eight out of hundreds of bands to compete for a spot on the following year's Ozzfest. Ozzy selected one member from each chosen band to \"tag along\" on the tour. Each contestant had to complete numerous challenges to improve his/her band's chances of winning the contest. Occasionally, meetings would be held and certain contestants would be eliminated for various reasons. The person who prevailed as the winner and guaranteed his band's spot on the Ozzfest tour was Marc Serrano from metalcore act A Dozen Furies.\n\nAt Iron Maiden's last Ozzfest performance, on 20 August 2005 at the Hyundai Pavilion at Glen Helen in San Bernardino, California, several negative events took place. During the first song, several members of the crowd, brought on by Sharon Osbourne, bombarded the British metal band Iron Maiden with eggs, bottle caps and ice after vocalist Bruce Dickinson allegedly ridiculed Ozzy's need for a teleprompter during his performances, as well as the Osbourne family's ventures into reality television (\"The Osbournes\", \"Battle for Ozzfest\"). During three of Iron Maiden's songs, the P.A. system was switched off, cutting power to Dickinson's microphone and then to all the band's instruments. During the concert, Bruce Dickinson can be heard accusing the festival's organizers of deliberately cutting off the band's power. On Iron Maiden's departure, Sharon Osbourne came on stage to make a few statements, telling the audience that she \"absolutely loved Iron Maiden\" but thought that Dickinson is a \"prick.\" Rod Smallwood, manager for Iron Maiden, issued a statement shortly after the debacle condemning the attack on the band. On a later Howard Stern Show, In 2006, Bruce Dickinson commented, \"Did I have a go at Ozzy and Black Sabbath? No. Why would I? But I do find \"The Osbournes\" TV series loathsome, and the whole cult of reality TV celebrities disgusting.\" In response to claims that he had apologised to Ozzy for Dickinson's behaviour, Steve Harris stated \"No I didn't [apologise]. What I actually said was that, if there was anything to apologise for, then I'd do it. But that was twisted around to seem like I'd said sorry – that never happened!\"\n\nOn 7 February 2007, it was announced that tickets to Ozzfest 2007 would be offered free of charge, dubbing the 2007 Ozzfest as \"free fest.\" Tickets were made available through sponsor websites, the Ozzfest web site and to those buying an advance copy of Ozzy Osbourne's new release, \"Black Rain\".\n\nSponsorship money provided the revenue for the tour, but organizers did not pay any of the bands appearing. Ozzy Osbourne returned to the headlining slot on the tour after being absent from the 2006 tour. Ozzfest 2007 featured well-established acts such as Lamb of God, Static X, and Hatebreed.\n\nThere were problems with distribution of the free tickets. Fans were given codes to receive tickets through the official Ozzfest website, but due to the heavy load on Live Nation's secure servers, there were issues with ticket redemption. Another problem was that many \"eBay scalpers\" charged fans to pay for the free tickets, often turning out to be unusable duplicates of other tickets. Then, on 26 July, Ozzfest gave away free tickets without requiring its \"redemption code\" previously required.\n\nAt the show of 16 August 2007 in Holmdel, New Jersey at the PNC Bank Arts Center, controversy was generated as 83 attendees were arrested at the show, most of them underage and arrested prior to 8:00. In addition, two men died, one after overdosing on alcohol and energy drinks.\n\nQuestions over whether the event would be held in 2008 began when in April that year Ozzy Osbourne announced that he would be headlining the Canadian Monsters of Rock festival. The 2008 version of the festival took place for only one date at Pizza Hut Park in Frisco, Texas on 9 August 2008. The line-up featured Metallica and Ozzy Osbourne as the headliner bands, as well as other acts such as Jonathan Davis (frontman of Korn), Sevendust, DevilDriver, Serj Tankian (frontman of System of a Down), Cavalera Conspiracy, Shadows Fall, Apocalyptica and In This Moment. Along with the two main stages was a third, named the Texas Stage, which, according to Sharon Osbourne, featured such Texas-based bands as The Sword, Drowning Pool, Goatwhore, Soilent Green and Rigor Mortis.\n\nThe Canadian Version of \"The Monsters of Rock\" was held exclusively on 26 July 2008 at the McMahon Stadium located in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. It was also scheduled as a \"one time only\" event. The main attraction for the festival of heavy metal and mayhem were metal giants Judas Priest and the headliner, Ozzy Osbourne. In addition, various other \"big league\" heavy metal outfits attended the festivities. The following bands preceded the two main attractions: Serj Tankian, Hatebreed, Cavalera Conspiracy (featuring current frontman of Soulfly,and former frontman of Sepultura, Max Cavalera), Shadows Fall, Canadian metal unit Voivod, Testament, 3 Inches of Blood, Priestess, Zimmers Hole, and Dillinger Escape Plan.\n\n\nOzzy Osbourne, Mötley Crüe, Halford, DevilDriver, Nonpoint\n\n\nBlack Label Society (Cancelled in Mansfield & Camden and Bristow due to inclement weather.), Drowning Pool (Cancelled in Mansfield due to inclement weather.), Kingdom of Sorrow (NOTE: Exodus played instead on the San Bernardino date), Goatwhore (canceled on the Hartford date due to a medical emergency with their bassist), Skeletonwitch, Saviours, Kataklysm (Cancelled in Mansfield due to inclement weather.), California Wildebeest (San Bernardino date only), Immune (San Bernardino date only). The guitar prodigy Yuto Miyazawa was invited by Ozzy to play \"Crazy Train\" at the event.\n\nOn 19 October 2012, it was announced that Ozzfest will be revived on 11–12 May 2013 at Makuhari Messe in Chiba, Japan; this was the first time the festival took place in that country. Acts confirmed for the Ozzfest Japan include Slipknot, Slash featuring Myles Kennedy and The Conspirators, Deftones, Black Sabbath, Tool and Stone Sour.\n\nTokyo, Japan. This will be the second time the festival has taken place in the country. Acts confirmed for Ozzfest Japan include Ozzy and Friends, Korn, Evanescence, Jane's Addiction, Bullet for My Valentine, A Day to Remember, Hatebreed, Black Label Society, Corey Taylor, Crossfaith, and Babymetal.\n\nOriginally, Black Sabbath was announced, but it was cancelled and replaced by Ozzy and Friends. Geezer Butler, Tom Morello, Dave Navarro, Zakk Wylde, and Funassyi are going to appear as guests of Ozzy and Friends.\nOf Mice and Men was once announced, but cancelled due to surgery of Austin Carlile.\n\nIn 2016, Ozzfest joined with Knotfest and on September 24th and 25th, 2016, \"Ozzfest Meets Knotfest 2016\" was held in San Bernardino, California, at the San Manuel Amphitheater. \n\nThe 2017 Ozzfest was held again in conjunction with Knotfest, under the title \"Ozzfest Meets Knotfest 2017\" on November 4th & 5th, 2017 in San Bernardino, California, at the Glen Helen Amphitheater.\n\nThe 2018 Ozzfest will be held at The Forum in Inglewood, California on December 31st, 2018. The event will be hosted by Ozzy Osbourne, Marilyn Manson, Rob Zombie, Jonathan Davis of Korn, and Body Count. And on the 2nd stage, Zakk Wylde's Black Sabbath tribute band Zakk Sabbath is planned to take the stage along with DevilDriver and Wednesday 13 of Murderdolls. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "10718200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10718200", "title": "Prince Friedrich Karl of Prussia (1893–1917)", "text": "Prince Friedrich Karl of Prussia (1893–1917)\n\nPrince Friedrich Karl of Prussia (Tassilo Wilhelm Humbert Leopold Friedrich Karl; 6 April 1893 – 6 April 1917) was a German prince and competitive horse rider who competed in the 1912 Summer Olympics.\n\nPrince Friedrich Karl was born in Schloss Klein-Glienicke, Potsdam, Berlin. He was the son of Prince Friedrich Leopold of Prussia (1865–1931) and Princess Louise Sophie of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Augustenburg (1866–1952) and a grandson of Prince Frederick Charles of Prussia.\n\nHe was a member of the 1912 German Olympic equestrian team, which won a bronze medal in the team jumping event. His horse during the Olympic competition was \"Gibson Boy\".\n\nHe fought in World War I as an aviator between 1914 and 1917. He commanded \"Fliegerabteilung (Artillerie) 258\", an artillery spotting unit, but flew patrols in a single-seat fighter with \"Jasta Boelcke\" whenever possible. During one such patrol on March 21, 1917, he was forced to land because of a bullet in his engine and with a slight wound to his foot. He landed his Albatros aircraft in no-man's land, but while running towards his own lines he was shot in the back and severely wounded by Australian troops. He was taken into captivity, where he died from his injuries on 6 April 1917 at Saint-Étienne-du-Rouvray.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2418830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2418830", "title": "Saint François d'Assise", "text": "Saint François d'Assise\n\nSaint François d'Assise is an opera in three acts and eight scenes by French composer and librettist Olivier Messiaen, written from 1975 to 1983. It concerns Saint Francis of Assisi, the title character, and displays the composer's devout Catholicism. The world première was given by the Paris Opera at the Palais Garnier on 28 November 1983.\n\nDespite his studies of Mozart and Wagner operas, Messiaen thought he would never compose an opera. When Rolf Liebermann, general manager of the Paris Opera, commissioned an opera from Messiaen in 1971 the composer refused. Messiaen changed his mind when Liebermann arranged that he be a guest at a dinner at the Elysée Palace, hosted by then French President Georges Pompidou; at the end of the dinner Pompidou said: \"Messiaen, you will write an opera for the Opéra de Paris!\". In searching for subject matter, Messiaen pondered dramatizing either Christ's Passion or his Resurrection. Feeling unworthy of either subject, he eventually chose to dramatize the life of Saint Francis of Assisi, which paralleled Christ's chastity, humility, poverty, and suffering.\n\nThe process of writing the opera took its toll on the composer. Initially, Messiaen set to work and he made rapid progress as it became the sole object of his musical attention. By 1977 he contacted the general manager of the Paris National Opera to say he was ready to play through an unorchestrated version of the opera. Messiaen could not envisage orchestrating the opera by 1980, and adding to the pressure on Messiaen, there was a leak on the radio that he was writing an opera about Saint Francis. This revelation transgressed Messiaen's normal practice of secrecy when composing.\n\nMessiaen appealed for a deadline extension in 1979. The new date was agreed to be 1983; however, Messiaen's health was now beginning to deteriorate. In 1981 he had several periods of ill-health, and Messiaen once again doubted that he would finish according to plan. Messiaen began to suffer from depressions, and by December 1981 he felt unable to go on. However, his doctor advised him to take daily walks to increase his wellbeing and he began to attend evening mass at the Sacre Coeur. This encouraged Messiaen to go on and complete the work, though by completion it had left its mark and he was still convinced it would be his last.\n\nFor maximum artistic freedom, Messiaen penned both libretto and score. For nearly eight years, the composer consulted Franciscan sources, reading biographies by Thomas of Celano and St. Bonaventure, as well as Francis' own prayers (including \"Canticle of the Sun\"). He also cited passages from the \"Fioretti\", \"Considerations on the Stigmata\" and the Bible.\n\nIn order to focus on the progress of grace in Francis's soul after his conversion, Messiaen omitted certain episodes in his hero's life, including the often-romanticized relationship between Francis and St. Clare, and the fable of his taming of a wild wolf at Gubbio. \n\nCritics later chastised Messiaen for beginning the action after Francis’s conversion. The composer defended his choice in an interview with Claude Samuel: \"Some people have told me, 'There's no sin in your work.' But I myself feel sin isn't interesting, dirt isn't interesting. I prefer flowers. I left out sin.\"\n\nThe opera's eight scenes, divided into three acts, delineate Francis’s spiritual development. Act One contains scenes in which he realizes his goals: \"La Croix\" (\"The Cross\"), \"Les Laudes\" (\"Lauds\") and \"Le Baiser au Lépreux\" (\"The Kissing of the Leper\"). Act Two shows Francis's journey towards enlightenment, ministry and divinity: \"L’Ange voyageur\" (\"The Journeying Angel\"), \"L’Ange musicien\" (\"The Angel Musician\") and \"Le Prêche aux oiseaux\" (\"The Sermon to the Birds\"). The scenes of Act Three explore the saint's approach to divinity and his entrance into eternity: \"Les Stigmates\" (\"The Stigmata\") and \"La Mort et la Nouvelle Vie\" (\"Death and the New Life\").\n\nAfter the 1983 world premiere at the Palais Garnier, \"Saint François\" was not staged for almost a decade. The opera was presented on stage again by the 1992 Salzburg Festival (at the \"Felsenreitschule\"), directed by Peter Sellars with Esa-Pekka Salonen conducting the Los Angeles Philharmonic in the orchestra pit. This production was revived in 1998, again at the Salzburg Festival. Productions at Oper Leipzig (1998) and at the Deutsche Oper Berlin (2002) followed. The American premiere took place at the San Francisco Opera in 2002. Since then, the opera was presented in staged productions by the RuhrTriennale at the Jahrhunderthalle in Bochum (2003), by the Opéra National de Paris at the Opéra Bastille in Paris (2004), by the Muziektheater in Amsterdam (2008) and by the Bavarian State Opera in Munich (2011). The Munich production was directed by Hermann Nitsch, a renowned representative of Viennese action painting. The RuhrTriennale production was also shown in the Madrid Arena (Spain) in 2011.\n\n\nThe subject of each scene is borrowed from the \"Fioretti\" and the \"Reflexions on the Stigmata\", books written by anonymous Franciscans of the 14th century. There are seven characters: Saint Francis, the Leper, the Angel, Brother Elias, and three Brothers especially beloved of Saint Francis--Brother Leo, Brother Masseo, and Brother Bernard. Throughout the work one must see the progress of grace in the soul of Saint Francis.\n\n\"Scene 1: The Cross\"\n\nSaint Francis explains to Brother Leo that for the love of Christ he must patiently endure all contradictions, all suffering. This is the \"Perfect joy.\"\n\n\"Scene 2: Lauds\"\n\nAfter the recitation of Matins by the Brothers, Saint Francis, remaining alone, prays that he might meet a leper and be capable of loving him.\n\n\"Scene 3: The Kissing of the Leper\"\n\nAt a leper-hospital, a leper, horribly blood-stained and covered in pustules, rails against his disease. Saint Francis enters and, sitting close to him, speaks gently. An angel appears behind a window and says: \"Leper, your heart accuses you, but God is greater than your heart.\" Troubled by the voice and by the goodness of Saint Francis, the leper is stricken with remorse. Saint Francis embraces him and, miraculously, the leper is cured and dances for joy. More important than the cure of the leper is the growth of grace in the soul of Saint Francis and his exultation at having triumphed over himself.\n\n\"Scene 4: The Journeying Angel\"\n\nOn a forest road on La Verna an angel appears, disguised as a traveler. His knocking on the door of the monastery makes a terrific sound, symbolising the inrush of Grace. Brother Masseo opens the door. The Angel asks Brother Elias, the vicar of the Order, a question about predestination. Brother Elias refuses to answer and pushes the Angel outside. The Angel knocks on the door again and puts the same question to Brother Bernard, who replies with much wisdom. The Angel having gone, Brother Bernard and Brother Masseo look at each other, Bernard remarking, \"Perhaps it was an angel...\"\n\n\"Scene 5: The Angel-Musician\"\n\nThe Angel appears to Saint Francis and, to give him a foretaste of celestial bliss, plays him a solo on his viol. This solo is so glorious that Francis swoons.\n\n\"Scene 6: The Sermon to the Birds\"\n\nSet at Assisi, at the Carceri, with a large green oak tree in spring with many birds singing. Saint Francis, followed by Brother Masseo, preaches a sermon to the birds and solemnly blesses them. The birds reply with a great chorus in which are heard not only birds of Umbria, especially the blackcap, but also birds of other countries, of distant lands, notably the Isle of Pines, close to New Caledonia.\n\n\"Scene 7: The Stigmata\"\n\nOn La Verna at night in a cave beneath an overhanging rock, Saint Francis is alone. A great Cross appears. The voice of Christ, symbolized by a choir, is heard almost continually. Five luminous beams dart from the Cross and successively strike the two hands, the two feet, and the right side of Saint Francis, with the same terrific sound that accompanied the Angel's knocking. These five wounds, which resemble the five wounds of Christ, are the divine confirmation of Saint Francis's holiness.\n\n\"Scene 8: Death and the New Life\"\n\nSaint Francis is dying, stretched out at full length on the ground. All the Brothers are around him. He bids farewell to all those he has loved, and sings the last verse of his \"Canticle of the Sun\", the verse of \"our sister bodily Death\". The Brothers sing Psalm 141. The Angel and the Leper appear to Saint Francis to comfort him. Saint Francis utters his last words: \"Lord! Music and poetry have led me to Thee [...] in default of Truth [...] dazzle me for ever by Thy excess of Truth...\" He dies. Bells ring. Everything disappears. While the choir hymns the Resurrection, a patch of light illuminates the spot where previously the body of Saint Francis lay. The light increases until it becomes blinding. The curtain falls.\n\nMessiaen's wealth of experience as an orchestral composer manifests itself in \"Saint François d’Assise\". In fact, Messiaen devotes a great majority of the opera's running time to orchestral music, though not to the detriment of character development. The composer reflects the characters’ psychological and emotional state through the use of leitmotif and birdsong.\n\nSeveral leitmotifs exist in the orchestral score, most of which connect to one or more characters.\n\nThe dramatic action of the opera begins with the entrance of Brother Leo, who sings the \"death\" motif to words taken from the end of Ecclesiastes: \"I am afraid on the road, when the windows grow larger and more obscure, and when the leaves of the poinsettia no longer turn red.\" \"I am afraid on the road, when, about to die, the tiare flower is no longer perfumed. Behold! The invisible, the invisible is seen…\" This theme repeats nearly every time Leo enters, and the orchestra accompanies it with lazy glissandos in the strings.\nFrancis answers Leo's introspection with the \"perfect joy\" motif, a combination of Trumpet in D, xylophone and woodwinds. This motif reoccurs several times throughout the piece. In some cases, Brother Leo's \"death\" motif alternates with Francis’ \"perfect joy\" motif.\nMessiaen linked Francis’ moments of great solemnity with quite possibly the most pervasive motif of the opera. It is structured as a tone cluster in the trombone section, creating an ominous, harsh sound. The motif is quite evident in the second scene, wherein Francis asks God to let him meet a leper: \"Fais-moi rencontrer un lépreux.\" The tone clusters break up his line of text: \"Fais-moi\"—\"cluster\"—\"rencontrer\"—\"cluster\"—\"un lépreux.\"\nDuring Scene Four at La Verna, the Angel knocks on the monastery door. Messiaen represents the knocking with a motif heavy pounding sounds in the percussion and strings. He saw these knocks as an entry of grace—a force one must not resist. The Angel's knocking foreshadows Francis’ eventual acceptance of the stigmata during Scene Seven. The main difference in Scene Seven is that the motif represents the painful, brutal pounding of nails into Christ's body.\n\nMessiaen considered himself an ornithologist, and his love for birds is evident in the opera. The composer traveled to the saint's native Assisi, as well as New Caledonia, to research and record birdcalls of several local species, later transcribing them into melodies for use as musical themes attached to particular characters.\n\nUpon entering caves at the Carceri (just east of Assisi), Messiaen heard the call of the capinera. Francis often retreated to these caves for meditation and prayer, thus the choice of the capinera is fitting.\nThis yellow-bellied warbler from New Caledonia signals nearly every entrance and exit of the Angel. Messiaen scored the gerygone with a staccato piccolo alternating with glockenspiel and xylophone. In some cases, the kestrel birdcall accompanies the gerygone.\nFrancis’ most contrarian brother, Elias, receives the birdcall of this \"gloomy sounding pigeon\" from New Caledonia.\nThe philemon birdcall (most likely recorded in New Caledonia) reflects Bernardo's age and wisdom while punctuating his musical and textual phrases.\n\nMessiaen devotes the entire sixth scene (\"La Prêche aux oiseaux\" or, \"The Sermon to the Birds\") to all manner of birdsong as Francis delivers his famous sermon with Brother Masseo in attendance.\n\nMessiaen's full orchestration requires more than 110 musicians, placing great demands on budgets as well as orchestra pit space. At the Palais Garnier, the overflow of players were placed in boxes adjacent to the stage.\n\n\nIn addition to these, pitched percussion instruments are also used: one xylophone, one xylorimba, one marimba, one glockenspiel and one vibraphone, as well as three Ondes Martenot which the composer described in his interview with Claude Samuel as being 'very rare in an opera!'.\n\nThe opera requires a ten-part, 150-voice choir, which serves a twofold role: Greek chorus and divine presence. Throughout the piece, the chorus comments on Francis’ spiritual journey. The first three scenes include a commentary on the preceding plot action with a \"moral.\" For example, after Francis' conversation with Leo on \"perfect joy\", the chorus sings the text \"He who would walk in my steps, let him renounce himself, take up his Cross and follow me.\" One could say that this text carries a double purpose—the moral is not only sung, but comes from the mouth of Christ. In the latter scenes of the opera, especially \"The Stigmata\", the chorus perpetuates its image as Christ speaking directly to Francis as He bestows the wounds onto the saint. Messiaen's choral writing, especially the violent, wordless chants during \"The Stigmata\", suggests a mystical, otherworldly presence.\n\nMessiaen's synesthesia caused a perception of colors associated with particular harmonies or musical scale degrees. For instance, when hearing a C-natural on the piano, the composer saw \"white\" before his eyes. In the opera, Messiaen underscores the final moments (Francis’ death and ascent into heaven) on a C major chord structure, providing a musical burst of white light. It is unclear whether this final chord structure was coincidental or intentional.\n\nMessiaen traveled to Italy not merely for birdcall research. In Assisi, he visited the Basilica of Saint Francis to study the Giotto frescoes. During rehearsal for the premiere production, the composer coached baritone José van Dam (creator of the title role) in some of the gestures and attitudes evoked on the Giotto masterpieces. Messiaen also made a side trip to Florence. While in the monastery of San Marco, he found inspiration for the Angel's costume in one of several paintings of the Annunciation by Fra Angelico. As a result, the libretto includes a costume note on the exact shade of the Angel's robe (as dictated by the original artwork): a pinkish mauve between lilac and salmon.\n\nFour recordings of the opera exist, three of which are complete:\n\nThe opera was given a semi-staged performance as Prom 70 in the 2008 BBC Proms season and broadcast live on BBC Radio 3. This was based on the recent production by Netherlands Opera. This production was filmed and issued on DVD in 2009, with Rodney Gilfry as St. Francis and Camilla Tilling as the Angel. The conductor is Ingo Metzmacher, and the stage producer is Pierre Audi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12655739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12655739", "title": "Sree Narayana Jayanthi Boat Race", "text": "Sree Narayana Jayanthi Boat Race\n\nThe Sree Narayana Jayanthi Vallam Kali or Boat Race, at Kumarakom, Kerala is held in the month of September every year during Onam festival. More than 1,000 oarsmen in boats of different sizes and shapes participate. Even though snake boats participate in this race, the importance is given here is for iruttukuthi, in which about 50 oarsmen row. The successful iruttukuthi wins the Sree Narayana Ever Rolling Trophy.\n\nIn 1903 the Sree Narayana Guru arrived at Kumarakom to consecrate an idol of Sri Balasubrahmonia Swami at the Kumaramangalom Temple. After much hesitation that he agreed to consecrate the idol as he was more interested in starting a school at the backward village. Eventually, both the school and the temple were started as per the wish of the Guru. The arrival of the Guru was a great day of celebration for the people of this nondescript village by the Vembanad lake and they welcomed the sage into their midst, accompanying him in their boats in a procession. To commemorate this event, for the past many decades, a boat race, preceded by a boat procession are held as part of the Sri Narayana Jayanthi celebrations at Kumarakom.\n\nThe day begins with special pujas at the Kumaramangalom Temple. This is followed by Gurupuja and Gurupushpanjali at the Gurumandiram. Arts and sports competitions for children are held as part of the celebrations during the forenoon. The \"Kumarakom boat race\" commences. Prior to this, the grand procession of country boats carrying a portrait of Sree Narayana Guru and the \"thidampu\" from Kumaramangalom Temple is held up to Kottathodu, the venue of the boat race. The celebrations conclude with a public meeting and distribution of prizes for the winners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8615760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8615760", "title": "Star Theatre, Kolkata", "text": "Star Theatre, Kolkata\n\nThe Star Theatre is a theatre in Kolkata, built in 1883. Initially situated in Beadon Street, the theatre later moved to Cornwallis Street - now called Bidhan Sarani. The Star, along with the Minerva Theatre, was one of the first institutions of commercial Bengali theatre. The Star, along with Minerva and The Classic Theatre, were also one of the places where the first motion pictures in Bengal, made by Hira Lala Sen, were screened. This is a heritage site of Calcutta (Kolkata) that was destroyed in a fire and thereafter restored by the local municipal corporation. The restored Star Theatre maintains the heritage facade; the interiors are contemporary. The property is maintained by a private company. At present, it is primarily a cinema hall; plays are staged on about two days per month. However, during winter (December and January) plays are staged here much more frequently, of the order of ten days per month. The auditorium has excellent acoustics. Star Theatre is close to the junction of Grey Street (Aurobindo Saranee) and Cornwallis Street (Bidhan Saranee); the area near this junction is called Hatibagan (Elephant Park). The theatre is a 10-minute walk from the Shobhabazar-Sutanuti station of the underground railway. Star Theatre has an underground car park with a nominal parking fee of Rs 10/- per hour (minimum three hours). Tramcar tracks, and services, on Grey Street and Cornwallis Street enhance the heritage ambience.\n\nGirish Chandra Ghosh was one of the first to produce plays at the Star Theatre, in the 1880s.\n\nIn 2012, the Star Theatre was to be returned to civic ownership, \"to stop commercialization of the historic building that was once visited by Bengali luminaries such as Vidyasagar, Ramakrishna Paramhansa and Rabindranath Tagore.\"\n"}
{"id": "103293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103293", "title": "The Great Exhibition", "text": "The Great Exhibition\n\nThe Great Exhibition of the Works of Industry of All Nations or The Great Exhibition, sometimes referred to as the Crystal Palace Exhibition in reference to the temporary structure in which it was held, was an international exhibition that took place in Hyde Park, London, from 1 May to 15 October 1851. It was the first in a series of World's Fairs, exhibitions of culture and industry that became popular in the 19th century, and it was a much anticipated event. The Great Exhibition was organized by Henry Cole and Prince Albert, husband of the reigning monarch, Queen Victoria. It was attended by famous people of the time, including Charles Darwin, Samuel Colt, members of the Orléanist Royal Family and the writers Charlotte Brontë, Charles Dickens, Lewis Carroll, George Eliot, Alfred Tennyson and William Makepeace Thackeray. Music for the opening was under the direction of Sir George Thomas Smart and the continuous music from the exhibited organs for the Queen's procession was \"under the superintendence of William Sterndale Bennett\".\n\nThe Exposition des produits de l'industrie française (Exhibition of Products of French Industry) organized in Paris, France, from 1798 to 1849 were precursors to the Great Exhibition of 1851 in London.\n\nThe Great Exhibition of the Works of Industry of All Nations was organized by Prince Albert, Henry Cole, Francis Henry, George Wallis, Charles Dilke and other members of the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce as a celebration of modern industrial technology and design. It was arguably a response to the highly effective French Industrial Exposition of 1844: indeed, its prime motive was for Britain to make \"clear to the world its role as industrial leader\". Prince Albert, Queen Victoria's consort, was an enthusiastic promoter of the self-financing exhibition; the government was persuaded to form the Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851 to establish the viability of hosting such an exhibition. Queen Victoria and her family visited three times. Although the Great Exhibition was a platform on which countries from around the world could display their achievements, Britain sought to prove its own superiority. The British exhibits at the Great Exhibition \"held the lead in almost every field where strength, durability, utility and quality were concerned, whether in iron and steel, machinery or textiles.\" Britain also sought to provide the world with the hope of a better future. Europe had just struggled through \"two difficult decades of political and social upheaval,\" and now Britain hoped to show that technology, particularly its own, was the key to a better future.\n\nSophie Forgan says of the Exhibition that \"Large, piled-up ‘trophy’ exhibits in the central avenue revealed the organisers’ priorities; they generally put art or colonial raw materials in the most prestigious place. Technology and moving machinery were popular, especially working exhibits.\" She also notes that visitors \"could watch the entire process of cotton production from spinning to finished cloth. Scientific instruments were found in class X, and included electric telegraphs, microscopes, air pumps and barometers, as well as musical, horological and surgical instruments.\"\n\nA special building, nicknamed The Crystal Palace, or \"The Great Shalimar\", was built to house the show. It was designed by Joseph Paxton with support from structural engineer Charles Fox, the committee overseeing its construction including Isambard Kingdom Brunel, and went from its organisation to the grand opening in just nine months. The building was architecturally adventurous, drawing on Paxton's experience designing greenhouses for the sixth Duke of Devonshire. It took the form of a massive glass house, 1848 feet (about 563 metres) long by 454 feet (about 138 metres) wide and was constructed from cast iron-frame components and glass made almost exclusively in Birmingham and Smethwick. From the interior, the building's large size was emphasized with trees and statues; this served, not only to add beauty to the spectacle, but also to demonstrate man's triumph over nature. The Crystal Palace was an enormous success, considered an architectural marvel, but also an engineering triumph that showed the importance of the Exhibition itself. The building was later moved and re-erected in 1854 in enlarged form at Sydenham Hill in south London, an area that was renamed Crystal Palace. It was destroyed by fire on 30 November 1936.\n\nSix million people—equivalent to a third of the entire population of Britain at the time—visited the Great Exhibition. The average daily attendance was 42,831 with a peak attendance of 109,915 on 7 October. The event made a surplus of £186,000 (£ in 2015), which was used to found the Victoria and Albert Museum, the Science Museum and the Natural History Museum. They were all built in the area to the south of the exhibition, nicknamed Albertopolis, alongside the Imperial Institute. The remaining surplus was used to set up an educational trust to provide grants and scholarships for industrial research; it continues to do so today.\n\nThe Exhibition caused controversy as its opening approached. Some conservatives feared that the mass of visitors might become a revolutionary mob, whilst radicals such as Karl Marx saw the exhibition as an emblem of a capitalist fetishism of commodities. King Ernest Augustus I of Hanover, shortly before his death, wrote to Lord Strangford about it: \nThe folly and absurdity of the Queen in allowing this trumpery must strike every sensible and well-thinking mind, and I am astonished the ministers themselves do not insist on her at least going to Osborne during the Exhibition, as no human being can possibly answer for what may occur on the occasion. The idea ... must shock every honest and well-meaning Englishman. But it seems everything is conspiring to lower us in the eyes of Europe.\n\nIn modern times, the Great Exhibition is a symbol of the Victorian Age, and its thick catalogue, illustrated with steel engravings, is a primary source for High Victorian design. A memorial to the exhibition, crowned with a statue of Prince Albert, is located behind the Royal Albert Hall. It is inscribed with statistics from the exhibition, including the number of visitors and exhibitors (British and foreign), and the profit made.\n\nThe official descriptive and illustrated catalogue of the event lists exhibitors not only from throughout Britain but also from its 'Colonies and Dependencies' and 44 'Foreign States' in Europe and the Americas. Numbering 13,000 in total, the exhibits included a Jacquard loom, an envelope machine, kitchen appliances, steel-making displays and a reaping machine that was sent from the United States.\n\n\nAdmission prices to the Crystal Palace varied according to the date of visit, with ticket prices decreasing as the parliamentary season drew to an end and London traditionally emptied of wealthy individuals. Prices varied from three guineas (£ in 2015) (two guineas for a woman) for a season ticket, or £1 per day (for the first two days only), then reducing to five shillings per day (until May 22). The admission price was then further reduced to one shilling (£ in 2015), per day – except on Fridays, when it was set at two shillings and six pence and on Saturdays when it remained at five shillings. The one-shilling ticket proved most successful amongst the industrial classes, with four and a half million shillings (£ in 2015), being taken from attendees in this manner. Two thousand five hundred tickets were printed for the opening day, all of which were bought.\n\nThe Great Exhibition of 1851 encouraged the production of souvenirs, the Lane's Telescopic Views which provided a three-dimensional view of the Great Exhibition of 1851. These were paper souvenirs that were made of printed lithographic cards which were hand-coloured and held together by cloth to give a three-dimensional view of the Great Exhibition. These views offered a miniature view of the Crystal Palace Exhibition when one viewed the cards through the peep hole on the front cover. Visitors purchased these souvenirs so that they could relive the experience of going to the exhibition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22326653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22326653", "title": "Triplemanía III-A", "text": "Triplemanía III-A\n\nTriplemanía III-A was the first of three parts of the third Triplemanía professional wrestling show series promoted by Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA). 1995 was second year to feature the \"Triplemanía Series\" of shows with 3, referred to as III-A, III-B and III-C. The show took place on June 10, 1995 in Tijuana, Baja California, Mexico. The Main event featured a 13-wrestler Steel Cage Elimination match, \"Lucha de Apuestas\" \"Mask vs. Mask\" match featuring the \"Mini-Estrellas\" division. The participants included Ninjita, Espectrito I, Espectrito II, Jerrito Estrada, Fuercita Guerrera, Mascarita Sagrada, Mini Calo, Octagoncito, La Parkita, Payasito Rojo, Payasito Azul, Super Muñequito, and Torerito. This marked the first and so far only time that the \"Minis division\" was featured in the main event of a Triplemanía. The show also featured the first of three \"Lucha de Apuestas\", mask vs. mask match series for the Triplemanía III shows as the culmination of a storyline feud between the \"tecnico\" team (faces, those that portray the good guys) of Super Caló and Winners against the \"Rudo\" (heels, those that portray the bad guys) team known as \"Los Diabolicos\" (\"The Diabolical Ones\"; Ángel Mortal and Marabunta). Six of the eight matches were later shown on AAA's weekly Televisa show.\n\nIn early 1992 Antonio Peña was working as a booker and storyline writer for Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL), Mexico's largest and the world's oldest wrestling promotion, and was frustrated by CMLL's very conservative approach to \"lucha libre\". He joined forced with a number of younger, very talented wrestlers who felt like CMLL was not giving them recognition they deserved and decided to split from CMLL to create Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA, or Triple A; Spanish for \"Assistance, Consulting, and Administration\"). After making a deal with the \"Televisa\" television network AAA held their first show in April, 1992. The following year Peña and AAA held their first Triplemanía event, building it into an annual event that would become AAA's Super Bowl event, similar to the WWE's WrestleMania being the biggest show of the year. The 1995 Triplemanía was the third year in a row AAA held a Triplemanía show and the fifth overall show under the Triplemanía banner.\n\nThe Triplemanía show featured seven professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing scripted feuds, plots and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\nInitial plans for the 1995 Triplemanía III series of events included a storyline where \"Los Gringos Locos\" members Eddy Guerrero and Art Barr would turn on teammate Konnan in the fall of 1994. This was supposed to turn \"técnico\" and set up a \"Lucha de Apuestas\", or bet match, between Konnan and Art Barr where both would put their hair on the line. AAA booker Antonio Peña was hoping to actually sell out the 130,000 seat Estadio Azteca in Mexico City. The plans never came to fruition as Art Barr died suddenly on November 23, 1994 before the storyline even had a chance to start. Barr's death, coupled with the Mexican peso crisis in 1994 led to Guerrero leaving AAA to work in the United States instead and thus made a \"Los Gringos Locos\" storyline impossible to piece together. AAA still planned on making the 1995 Triplemanía III event a series of shows, spread out over several weeks, serving as the Super Bowl of AAA's year.\n\nThe first two Triplemanía III shows were supposed to take place in late April, but for reason that have not been revealed the first show had to be canceled on the day of the event, leading to a second Triplemanía III show in \"Arena Rio Nilo\" in Guadalajara, Jalisco to be changed at the last moment. The show was changed so late in the day that the apron and posters in the arena advertised that the show was a Triplemanía show. The show still featured three high profile matches, starting with the trio of Perro Silva, Karloff Lagarde, Jr. and Mr. Cóndor defeating \"Las Gemas del Ring\" (Zafiro, Brillante, Diamante) in a \"Lucha de Apuestas\" match, forcing all three \"Gemas\" to unmask. The second high profile match was a six-man tag team match for the vacant WWA World Trios Championship, a championship that Peña was allowed to promote on AAA shows. For the Arena Rio Nilo show the father/son combo of Fuerza Guerrera and Juventud Guerrera teamed up with Psicosis to take on the trio of El Hijo del Santo, Octagón and Rey Misterio, Jr.. In the end the Guerreras and Psicosis won the match and became the sixth overall WWA World Trios champions. The main event match was for the \"Copa Rio Nilo\", a one night special feature match between long time rivals Perro Aguayo, Konan and Cien Caras who had been involved in a long running storyline that for Aguayo and Caras stretched back into the 1980s. During the match Cien Caras' brother, Máscara Año 2000 came to ringside and attacked Perro Aguayo, seeking revenge for being unmasked by Aguayo at Triplemanía I. At one point Máscara Año 2000 broke a glass beer bottle over Aguayo's head, causing him to bleed so badly that he had to be taken from the arena on a stretcher. In the end Cien Caras pinned Konnan setting up the team rivalry with Cien Caras and Máscara Año 2000 against Konnan and Perro Aguayo, a feud that would be featured on all three Triplemanía III shows.\n\nIn the early 1990s then-Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) Promoter Antonio Peña created the \"Mini-Estrellas\" concept, building on the classic midget wrestling concept but adding a \"Lucha libre\" flair to it. When Peña left CMLL to form AAA he made sure the \"Mini-Estrellas\" were given a strong presence on the shows and for Triplemanía III-A they were actually given the main event slot. Building off several individual storylines between the \"Mini-Estrellas\" AAA promoted a 13-man steel cage match where the last person in the cage would be forced to unmask under \"Lucha de Apuestas\" rules. One of the focal points was the emergence of \"Los Payasitos\" (\"The Little Clowns\"), two \"Mini-Estrella\" versions of \"Los Payasos\", known as Payasito Azul and Payasito Rojo as they fought against the \"técnicos\" Mascarita Sagrada and Mexican National Mini-Estrella Champion Super Muñequito on several shows. Another storyline leading up to the cage match was the feud between and Espectrito I, who had back up in the form of his younger brothers Espectrito II and La Parkita. Octagoncito. Octagoncito had actually defeated Espectrito I in a \"Lucha de Apuestas\" match on May 31, 1995 forcing the \"Mini-Estrella\" to be shaved bald after the match only 10 days before the show. Others included in the cage match included former Mexican National Mini-Estrellas Champion Furcito Guerrera, Jerrito Estrada, Mini Calo, Torerito and Ninjita.\n\nOne of the main storylines that would highlight not only Triplemanía III-A but also Triplemanía III-B and Triplemanía III-C was the feud between the two masked, young técnicos, Super Caló and Winners, fighting against the\"rudo\" team known as \"Los Diabolicos\", in this case the two masked members Marabunta and Ángel Mortal. The basic storyline centered around two the \"veteran\" wrestlers in \"Los Diabolicos\" getting annoyed with the fan reaction Super Caló and Winners were getting without, in their opinion, earning it by proving themselves in the ring. In the weeks prior to Triplemanía \"Los Diabolicos\" had faced off against Super Caló and Winners, often in six-man tag team match with the third \"Diabolic\" Mr. Condor against Caló, Winners and various young \"tecnicos\". During those matches \"Los Diabolicos\" would often either steal the mask of their opponents, or rip the masks apart during their matches. This led to all four wrestlers signing a contract for a series of \"Lucha de Apuesta\", or bet matches, where each competitor would wager their mask on the outcome of the match. In \"Lucha Libre\" a \"Lucha de Apuestas\" match is viewed as more prestigious than a championship match and is often promoted as the main event of major shows. The three match series would mean that three out of the four wrestlers would be unmasked by the time the third and final Triplemanía III match was over.\n\nIn 1994 AAA luchador, and star of several \"Luchador films\" Octagón was one of AAA's main draws, which let Peña to the idea to give him an \"Evil twin\", creating an \"Evil mirror image\" of Octagón for him to fight against. Peña turned Jesus Andrade, previously known as Espanto Jr. into the masked \"Pentagón\" character, a rival and distorted mirror image of Octagón. Pentagón made his in ring debut a month prior to Triplemanía III-A but the in-ring interaction between Pentagón and Octagón had deliberately been limited by AAA, mainly with Pentagón doing sneak attacks during matches leading up to the show. Triplemanía III-A marked the first time the two rivals truly faced off in the ring.\n\nOn November 6, 1994 then-Mexican National Light Heavyweight Champion La Parka teamed up with Jerry Estrada and Blue Panther, losing to a team of international wrestling stars The Pegasus Kid, 2 Cold Scorpio, and Tito Santana as part of the AAA When Worlds Collide pay-per-view (PPV). In the weeks following the team loss Jerry Estrada turned on La Parka, turning the increasingly popular La Parka to the \"técnicos\" side as Estrada demanded a match for the Mexican National Light Heavyweight Championship. On March 28, 1995 Estrada won the championship from La Parka in a high profile match in Matamoros, Tamaulipas as part of the long running storyline between the two. For Triplemanía III-A the two found themselves on opposite sides of each other in an eight-man \"Atómicos\" tag team match that paired up four high profile feuds of the time between Konnan and Cien Caras, Perro Aguayo and Máscara Año 2000, La Parka and Jerry Estrada and finally Octagón and Pentagón to complete the two sides.\n\nThis first two matches of the show were not broadcast on Television as part of AAA's weekly wrestling show on Televisa but were dark matches that only the fans in attendance at the Plaza de Toros de la Concordia bull fighting arena saw. The opening match featured AAA's women's division with Martha Villalobos, La Nazi and Neftali taking on a trio of women who had primarily worked for the Universal Wrestling Association (UWA), La Sirenita, Irma Gonzales and Irma Aguilar. The UWA trio was working the show due to a work agreement with the UWA, a promotion that was one of the major Mexican promotions in the 1970s and 1980s but by 1994 was close to going out of business and actually would close in 1995. Villalobos, La Nazi and Neftali defeated the UWA trio, although no records indicated who was pinned. The second Dark Match of the show featured a trio known as \"Los Misioneros de la Muerte\" (\"The Missionaries of Death\"), also originally from the UWA but by this time AAA regulars taking on the team of El Torero, El Mexicano and Dragón de Oro. \"Los Misioneros\" originally consisted of El Signo, Negro Navarro and El Texano and later on brought in Black Power II to replace El Texano while working in the UWA. When the group joined AAA Black Power was replaced by a mask wrestler known as Misionero, which may have been Black Power under a mask or possibly former \"Misionero\" Rocky Santana, but the identity was never confirmed. \"Los Misioneros\" defeated Torero, Mexicano and Dragón de Oro.\n\nThe third match of the night was also the first match to be shown on AAA later on, first airing on July 1, 1994 on Televisa along with the fourth match and the main event steel cage match. The fourth match of the night, another traditional \"lucha libre\" [ix-man tag team match contested under best two-out-of-three falls rules featured another trio that made its name as part of the UWA but was transitioning to AAA by 1994, \"Los Villanos\", in this case Villano I, Villano III and Villano IV facing one of AAA's top \"rudo\" trios \"Los Payasos\" (\"The Clowns\"; Coco Rojo, Coco Verde and Coco Amarillo) who had held the Mexican National Trios Championship on two occasions prior to Triplemanía III-A. \"Los Villanos\" won the first fall when they simultaneously pinned all three \"Payasos\" and then won the second fall by disqualification when \"Los Payasos\" pulled off \"Los Villanos\" masks to cause the disqualification, giving \"Los Villanos\" the match two falls to none.\n\nThe fifth match of the night was one of the featured matches of the night as Super Caló teamed up with rival Ángel Mortal to fight against Winners and Marabunta in what is called a \"Relevos Increibles Suicidas\" (\"Incredible pairs suicide\" match). The concept of that type of match is that two storyline enemies are forced to team together against another team of rivals, in this case their opponents were also their regular tag team partners. The losing team would then be forced to wrestle against each other in a \"Lucha de Apuestas\" match as a \"punishment\" for losing the tag team match. For most of the match Ángel Mortal and Marabunta did not wrestle against each other while Winners and Super Caló only faced off once during the match. Marabunta forced Super Caló to submit, then moments later his \"Los Diabolicos\" Ángel Mortal pinned Marabunta to even the sides. Moments later Winners applied a submission hold, forcing Ángel Mortal to tap out. THis allowed Winners and Marabunta to escape with their masks for the night. Traditionally \"Lucha de Apuestas\" matches are held under \"best two-out-of-three falls\" rules, but due to the \"Relevos Increibles Suicidas\" stipulation Super Caló and Ángel Mortal fought in a single fall match with their masks on the line, a match Super Caló won by pinfall. Following the match Ángel Mortal tried to escape the arena but was forced back in the ring where he was unmasked and revealed that his real name was Juan Manuel de la Rosa.\n\nIn the semi-main event four different storylines intersected in an eight-man \"Atómicos\" tag team match featuring the top feuds of AAA at the time. Perro Aguayo was accompanied to the ring by his son Perro Aguayo Jr. who was slated to make his in ring debut at the following Triplemanía III show. For most of the match the rival pairs worked against each other with Perro Aguayo and Máscara Año 2000, Konnan and Cien Caras, La Parka and Jerry Estrada and finally Octagón and Pentagón pairing off. In the end the \"técnicos;; side of Aguayo, Konnan, La Parka and Octagón won the match.\n\nThe main even steel cage match included referees on the outside of the cage to determine when a wrestler had successfully left the cage and a special \"Mini-Estrella\" referee, El Tirantio (a shorter version of referee \"El Tirantes\") inside the cage. During the introductions it was announced that since Espectrito I has just lost a \"Luchas de Apuestas\" match to Octagoncito 10 days earlier he was not allowed to compete in the match since he had no hair to \"bet\" on the match. Initially Espectrito I and his brothers, Espectrito II and La Parkita, tried to keep him in the ring but eventually the other 10 \"Mini-Estrellas\" ganged up on him and threw him out of the door of the cage. When the bell run the only way to get out of the match with their mask would be to climb over the top of the 15 foot tall steel cage and climb all the way to the floor. Payacito Azul was the first man to escape the cage only a few minutes into the match, leaving his tag team partner Payacito Rojo behind. The final four competitors were Espectrito II, Octagoncito, Super Muñequito and Payacito Rojo, When Octagoncito tried to escape Espectrito I, who had remained at ringside during the match, climbed up the cage and blocked Octagoncito's exit. Later on he did the same to Super Muñequito preventing him from leaving so that Espectrito II would not end up losing the match. After fighting on top of the cage, then while clinging to the outside of the cage Espectrito II jumped to the floor safely, followed moments later by Octagoncito. After wrestling against each other for a minute or two Super Muñequito took advantage of a mistake by Payasito Rojo and climbed out of the cage as the last man. With his victory he was given credit for Payacito Rojo's mask loss. Following the match Payacito Rojo removed his mask and announced that his real name was Raymundo Rodriguez, better known to the wrestling fans as \"Piratita Morgan\" (\"Little Morgan the Pirate\").\n\nThis show marked the last time that Raymundo Rodriguez worked under the ring name \"Payasito Rojo: as he resumed working as \"Piratita Morgan\" afterwards and later on also worked as the masked character Battalion in the World Wrestling Federation in 1997 and 1998. It was also the end of \"Los Payasitos\" in AAA as his tag team partner Payasito Azul changed his ring name to \"Fuercita Guerrera\", taking over the ring character for the original Fuercita Guerrera who retired not long after Triplemanía III. At Triplemanía III-B the \"Mini-Estrella\" division was featured in the first ever \"Mini-Estrellas\" Eight-man \"Atómicos\" tag team match as Torerito, Super Muñequito, Octagoncito and Mascarita Sagrada defeated Fuercita Guerrera, La Parkita, Espectrito I and Espectrito I when Super Muñequito pinned Espectrito I. Super Muñequito would later lose the Mexican National Mini-Estrella Championship to Espectrito I as part of their long running rivalry.\n\nCien Caras and Máscara Año 2000 would go on to Triplemanía III-B where they defended their UWA World Heavyweight Championship and IWC World Heavyweight Championship respectively against Perro Aguayo and Konnan in a tag team match with both championships on the line. In the end Cien Caras and Máscara Año 2000 retained their championships when Perro Aguayo was disqualified in the third and final fall of the match. Konnan would later on move to World Championship Wrestling (WCW) and work in the United States for years, putting an end to his rivalry with Cien Caras. Aguayo's rivalry with Cien Caras and Máscara Año 2000 would carry on for years, even beyond Aguayo's initial retirement from wrestling as Cien Caras and Máscara Año 2000 brought him back for one more \"Luchas de Apuestas\" match as part of CMLL's 2006 Homenaje a Dos Leyendas show.\n\nAt Triplemanía III-B Perro accompanied his son to the ring as he made his debut against Juventud Guerrera, son of Fuerza Guerrera who was at ringside with his son as well. During the match Fuerza Guerra interfered in the match, helping his son gain a victory over Perro Jr. That match started a father/son storyline between the Aguayos and the Guerrera family and would include the two teams fight over the Mexican National Tag Team Championship held by the Guerrera family. The feud ended when Fuerza Guerrera left AAA in late 1995.\n\nLa Parka and Estrada found themselves on opposite side of multi-man tag team matches at the subsequent Triplemanía III shows with La Parka's side winning one and Estrada's team winning the second match. On August 6, 1995 La Parka regained the Mexican National Light Heavyweight Championship from Jerry Estrada as their feud continued into 1996. The storyline between Octagón and Pentagón would continue to evolve, stretching out for several years, including the original Pentagón being replaced in 1996 when he had to retire due to health problems. The replacement of the original Pentagón was never officially acknowledged by AAA since Pentagón wore a mask that covered almost his entire face and ring gear that covered everything but his fingertips. The storyline between Octagón and his \"evil twin\" stretched into 2002 where Octagón finally unmasked Pentagón, although at this time it was a third man under the mask. AAA originally intended to carry the storyline forward into the next \"generation\" as they introduced Octagón Jr. in 2012 as well as a character supposed to be his rival in Pentagón Jr.. In the summer of 2013 the wrestler playing Octagón Jr. left AAA for WWE, cutting any planned storylines short.\n\nThe storyline between the team of Winners/Super Caló and \"Los Diabolicos\" led to Winners and Marabunta facing off in a \"Lucha de Apuestas\" match at the subsequent Triplemanía III-B on June 18, 1995. Winners defeated Marabunta, forcing him to unmask and reveal his real name. As part of the storyline a third and final \"Lucha de Apuestas\" match took place on June 30, 1995 and was the main event of Triplemanía III-B Per the stipulation of the previous matches Winners and Super Caló were forced to face off against each other with their masks on the line. In the end Super Caló won, forcing Winners to unmask and reveal his real name, Andrés Alejandro Palomeque González. Palomeque continued to work as Winners for over a year after unmasking, before being given a new ring character, bringing him back as the masked \"Abismo Negro\" (\"Black Abyss\"), playing a cheating \"rudo\" character, totally opposite of the character he portrayed while working as Winners. Super Caló would be unmasked at Triplemanía XV under similar circumstances as he was forced to wrestle his tag team partner Super Fly as a result of losing an earlier tag team match to Laredo Kid and Gran Apache. In the end Super Fly pinned Super Caló, forcing him to umask after the show and reveal his real name, Rafael García.\n\nJohn Molinario, who writes about wrestling for the Canadian Online Explorer, called the three \"an outstanding TripleMania series\" when reviewing the first five years of Triplemanía in a 2000 article.\n"}
{"id": "977160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977160", "title": "USS Drum (SSN-677)", "text": "USS Drum (SSN-677)\n\nUSS \"Drum\" (SSN-677), a attack submarine, was the second ship of the United States Navy to be named for the drum, also known as the croaker or hardhead, any of various fishes of the \"Sciaenidae\" family, capable of making a drumming noise and best known on the Atlantic coast of North America.\n\nThe contract to build \"Drum\" was awarded to Mare Island Naval Shipyard at Vallejo, California, on 15 March 1967, and her keel was laid down there on 20 August 1968. She was launched on 23 May 1970, sponsored by Mrs. William F. Bringle, wife of Vice Admiral William F. Bringle, commander of the United States Seventh Fleet, and commissioned on 15 April 1972. \"Drum\" was the last US naval vessel newly built in a naval shipyard.\n\nAfter commissioning, \"Drum\" conducted initial testing in Puget Sound before arriving at her home port of San Diego, California, on 22 May 1972. \"Drum\" then commenced six months of operational tests and fleet training exercises in Puget Sound, the Hawaiian Islands, and off San Diego to become a unit of the United States Pacific Fleet Submarine Force. After completing these tests and exercises, \"Drum\" returned to Mare Island Naval Shipyard in November 1972 for a one month of post-shakedown testing.\n\nAfter completing the post-shakedown testing and follow-on operations in Southern California, \"Drum\" deployed in March 1973 on her first Western Pacific deployment; it also was the longest deployment of her career, lasting eight months before she returned to San Diego in November 1973.\n\n\"Drum\" began her second deployment to the Western Pacific at the end of 1974, visiting Japan, Hong Kong, and the Philippines before returning to San Diego in May 1975. \"Drum\" was awarded her first Navy Unit Commendation for her successes during this deployment.\n\nIn June 1976, \"Drum\" departed San Diego for her third Western Pacific deployment, visiting Hong Kong, Japan, the Philippines, and Guam, and returned to San Diego in November 1976. She was awarded her first Meritorious Unit Commendation for her successes during this deployment.\n\n1977 began with \"Drum\" changing her home port to Bremerton, Washington, and entering Puget Sound Naval Shipyard for Mark 48 torpedo impact testing and a non-refueling overhaul. She completed the overhaul in April 1978, ahead of schedule and under budget. She spent the next several months conducting operations in Puget Sound, including visits to Seattle and Everett in Washington and Esquimalt, British Columbia, Canada, until returning to San Diego, which once again became her home port, in July 1978.\n\nFrom her return to San Diego until April 1979, \"Drum\" completed the rigorous training, testing, and loadout necessary prior to a deployment. She then deployed to the Western Pacific again from May to October 1979. During this deployment, she completed a special operation for which she was awarded her second Meritorious Unit Commendation and made port visits to Guam, Thailand, and the Philippines. After returning to San Diego in October 1979, she engaged in local operations and completed two months of repairs and alterations at Mare Island Naval Shipyard.\n\nIn May 1980, after \"Drum\" returned to San Diego, and for the next several months, \"Drum\" operated in the San Diego area. She began her next Western Pacific deployment in October 1980, which included visits to Guam and the Philippines. This deployment lasted until mid-April 1981, when she returned to San Diego.\nIn the course of that year the collided with an unidentified American submarine, believed to be of the , in the Peter the Great Bay, not far from Vladivostok. At least one source identifies this submarine as USS \"Drum\".\n\nIn November 1981, \"Drum\" again departed San Diego for the Western Pacific, visiting South Korea, spending Christmas in Japan, and returning home at the beginning of 1982. She then conducted operations off Southern California and visited San Francisco, California, before starting another period of repairs and alterations in San Diego in the summer of 1982.\n\nUpon completion of repairs, \"Drum\" concluded 1982 preparing for her next deployment. Shortly after Christmas 1982, \"Drum\" deployed to the Western Pacific. During this deployment, \"Drum\" visited the Philippines, Australia, and Japan, and also conducted operations in the Indian Ocean, during which she visited Diego Garcia. She returned to San Diego in June 1983.\n\nAfter a routine standdown period at the end of this deployment, \"Drum\" participated in Advanced Capability (ADCAP) Mark 48 torpedo testing exercises at the tracking range at Canadian Forces Maritime Experimental and Test Ranges, Nanoose Bay, British Columbia.\n\nIn May 1984, \"Drum\" left San Diego for a Western Pacific deployment, stopping in Hawaii for RIMPAC '84, a multi-national naval exercise, then continued west with visits to the Philippines, Japan, Guam, and Thailand. \"Drum\" returned to San Diego in November 1984.\n\n1985 began with local operations off Southern California and operations in Puget Sound, including a port visit to Esquimalt, British Columbia. In October 1985, \"Drum\" changed her home port to Bremerton, Washington, for the second time to begin her second and last overhaul – a refueling overhaul – at Puget Sound Naval Shipyard.\n\nThe refueling overhaul was completed in November 1987, and \"Drum\" returned to San Diego. which again became her home port, and became a unit of her new squadron, Submarine Squadron 11.\n\n\"Drum\" spent most of 1988 in local operations and preparation for her next deployment. Nine months after completion of her refueling overhaul, \"Drum\" left San Diego for two months of independent operations, for which she was awarded her third Meritorious Unit Commendation.\n\nIn mid-May 1989, \"Drum\" departed on her tenth deployment to the Western Pacific, for which \"Drum\" was awarded her second Navy Unit Commendation. The deployment included visits to Lahaina, Hawaii, Maui and Pearl Harbor in Hawaii and to Japan. \"Drum\" returned to San Diego in August 1989 and continued operations in the Southern California area for the remainder of 1989.\n\n1990 began with repairs and alterations that were completed in March. On 1 April 1990, \"Drum\" transferred from Submarine Squadron 11 to Submarine Squadron 3.\n\n\"Drum\" participated in RIMPAC '90, which included a port call at Lahaina, Maui, in the spring of 1990. After a summer of preparations, \"Drum\" departed San Diego in September 1990 for another deployment to the Western Pacific, during which she made port calls at Guam, Japan, and Singapore. \"Drum\" was awarded her fourth Meritorious Unit Commendation for operations conducted during this deployment, and while deployed, was awarded the Battle Efficiency Award (Battle \"E\") for Submarine Squadron 3 for her outstanding performance during fiscal year 1990. \"Drum\" returned to San Diego in March 1991.\n\nIn August 1991, \"Drum\" commenced independent operations. She returned to San Diego in late September 1991. In October 1991, she participated in San Franciscos Fleet Week 91.\n\n\"Drum\" was awarded the Battle \"E\" for Submarine Squadron 3, for the second consecutive year for outstanding performance in Fiscal Year 1991. \n\nIn February 1992, \"Drum\" departed on another deployment to the Western Pacific. Port visits included Pearl Harbor, Japan, Guam, Singapore, and Australia, and she completed a transit of the inner passage of the Great Barrier Reef. During this deployment, she was awarded her the fifth Meritorious Unit Commendation. She returned to San Diego in August 1992, then hosted a tour by senior Russian naval officers and dignitaries.\n\n\"Drum\" departed San Diego on her next Western Pacific deployment on 27 December 1993. During this deployment, she visited Guam, Japan, and New Caledonia.\n\nIn 1994, \"Drum\" participated in San Franciscos Fleet Week 94 and made a port visit to Astoria, Oregon.\n\nOn 13 February 1995, \"Drum\" departed San Diego for her thirteenth and last deployment to the Western Pacific, which included a visit to Guam. While leaving port in Hong Kong during the deployment, she collided with the Panamanian-registered cargo ship \"Sei Bright\". \"Sei Bright\" suffered slight damaged to her bow. No one was injured on either ship nor did \"Drum\" suffer notable damaged. \"Drum\" returned to San Diego on 13 April 1995. Her Commanding Officer was relieved of duty pending investigation of the collision, later resolved as \"not for cause.\" \n\nAt 1300 hours on 20 May 1995, an inactivation ceremony was held for \"Drum\" at San Diego. In late May 1995, she departed San Diego for the last time, destined for Pearl Harbor, where she would undergo deactivation at Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard.\n\n\"Drum\" was decommissioned and stricken from the Naval Vessel Register on 30 October 1995. Afterwards, she was stored at the Puget Sound Naval Shipyard, awaiting entry into the Nuclear-Powered Ship and Submarine Recycling Program for scrapping.\n\nOn 20 May 2010 the ex-\"Drum\" entered drydock for the last time. The ship was recycled in drydock three at Puget Sound Naval Shipyard and IMF. In early 2011 her reactor compartment was shipped to Hanford, Washington, for burial. The sail of the USS \"Drum\" was removed for display. It is currently on display at U.S. Navy Recruit Training Command, Great Lakes, Illinois.\n\nThe non-profit Mare Island Park Historic Foundation was raising money to return \"Drum\" to Vallejo as a floating museum ship. In Fiscal Year 1997, the United States Congress authorized the transfer of \"Drum\" to Vallejo at \"no cost to the U.S. Government\". If enough money had been raised to cover the cost of that transfer, \"Drum\" would have been transferred to Vallejo after removal of her nuclear reactor and decontamination of her hull. These efforts were unsuccessful.\n\nRed November, Inside the Secret U.S. Soviet Submarine War\n\n\n"}
