{"id": "49942702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49942702", "title": "1987 Rheindahlen bombing", "text": "1987 Rheindahlen bombing\n\nThe 1987 Rheindahlen bombing was a car bomb attack on 23 March 1987 at JHQ Rheindahlen military barracks, the British Army headquarters in West Germany, injuring thirty-one. The large 300 lb (140 kg) car bomb exploded near the visitors officers' mess of the barracks. The Provisional IRA later stated it had carried out the bombing. It was the start of the IRA's campaign on mainland Europe from the late 1980s to the early 1990s. Although British soldiers were targeted, most of the injured were actually German officers and their wives.\n\nOther than attacks in Northern Ireland & mainland Britain the Provisional IRA also carried out attacks in other countries such as West Germany, Belgium, and the Netherlands, where British soldiers were based. Between 1979 and 1990, eight unarmed soldiers and six civilians died in these attacks. It was the first IRA attack in West Germany since a British Army officer, Colonel Mark Coe, was shot dead by an IRA unit outside his home in, Bielefeld in February 1980. Coe's assassination was one of the first high-profile killings by the IRA in Germany and on mainland Europe. A year before, British Ambassador to the Netherlands Sir Richard Sykes was assassinated, whilst four British soldiers were hurt in the 1979 Brussels bombing in Belgium, just one day after the killing of Lord Mountbatten and the Warrenpoint ambush, which killed 18 British soldiers. In November 1981 the Irish National Liberation Army (INLA) bombed a British Army base in Herford, West Germany. There were no injuries in the attack. There was also a mortar attack on British Army base in Germany in 1996.\n\nAccording to author Ed Moloney's \"The Secret History of the IRA\", IRA Chief of Staff Kevin McKenna before the capture of the \"Eksund\" (a ship that was to ship heavy weaponry to the IRA from Libya) envisaged a three-pronged offensive that would start in the Northern Ireland and then spread to British targets in mainland Europe.\n\nThe IRA planted a 300-pound car bomb inside the JHQ Rheindahlen British Army military base, near the officers' mess. When the large car bomb exploded 31 people was injured, some of them badly. Twenty-seven West Germans and four Britons were hurt in the bombing at 22:30 local time. More than 12,000 service personnel were stationed at the base. It was the joint headquarters of the British Army of the Rhine and the Royal Air Force (RAF Rheindahlen).\n\nThe force of the blast ripped up the road and caused extensive damage to parked cars and surrounding buildings. The injured were taken to the RAF hospital at Wegberg, a few miles south of Rheindahlen, near the Dutch border. The bomb caused parts of the ceiling to collapse and doors were ripped from their frames. A police spokesman said the blast blew out windows in buildings several hundred yards away.\n\nIt looked like it was a reasonably successful attack from the IRA's point of view but the IRA actually had a close escape. The only reason people had not been killed was that the IRA ASU was unable to position the car bomb closer to the mess, because the car park was full of vehicles. Unknown to the IRA unit, most of the vehicles were owned by West German military officers who had been invited to spend a social evening with their British counterparts. Had the IRA's operation plan been carried out fully many of these German officers could have been killed and the start of the IRA's Europe campaign would have been a diplomatic and military disaster and a big blow to any of the IRA's international support.\n\nThe IRA later said it had carried out the bombing of the Rheindahlen barracks. A statement from the IRA said: \"Our unit's brief was to inflict a devastating blow but was ordered to be careful to avoid civilian casualties.\"\n\nThe National Democratic Front for the Liberation of West Germany, a previously unheard of group, also claimed to have been behind the attack, but this was dismissed by police investigators. \n\nThe British Army of the Rhine was renamed British Forces Germany (BFG) in 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "53221307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53221307", "title": "Alyaksandr Tsvikievich", "text": "Alyaksandr Tsvikievich\n\nAlyaksandr Ivanavich Tsvikyevich (, ; 22 June 1888 – 30 December 1937) was a Belorussian politician, historian, jurist and a philosopher. He served as a Prime Minister of Belarus for two years from 23 August 1923 until October 1925. His interest featured philosophy and history. He worked as a jurist and lawyer. He was also a professor in National Academy of Sciences of Belarus.\n\nHe was born in June 1888 in Brest, Belarus. He was a member of Belarusian Socialist Revolutionist Party in the 1920s. On 23 August 1923, he became the Prime Minister of Belarus. He resigned as a prime minister in October 1925. He died on 30 December 1937, aged 59. He was succeeded by Vaclau Lastouski. His brother was Ivan Tsvikyevich.\n"}
{"id": "14860641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14860641", "title": "Basque prehistory", "text": "Basque prehistory\n\nThe greater Basque Country comprises the Autonomous Communities of the Basque Country and Navarre in Spain and the Northern Basque Country in France. The Prehistory of the region begins with the arrival of the first hominin settlers during the Paleolithic and lasts until the conquest and colonisation of Hispania by the Romans after the Second Punic War, who introduced comprehensive administration, writing and regular recordings. \n\nBasque people are the only Western Europeans that speak a non-Indo-European language - Euskera - without having any known contemporary European ethnic or linguistic relatives. A 2015 DNA study supports the idea that the Basques descend from Neolithic farmers who mixed with local hunters and were subsequently isolated for millennia. \n\nAuthor \"Ellen Levy-Coffman\" summarizes in the \"Journal of Genetic Genealogy\": \"The Basques are generally depicted not only genetic vestiges of the most ancient inhabitants of Europe, but also one of the oldest human isolates, receiving no significant genetic contributions from outsiders. This isolation is supposedly reflected by Basque cultural/linguistic uniqueness, a high level of endogamy, and geographic protection among the Pyrenees Mountains.\"\n\nThe earliest Homo erectus migration events into Western Europe and the Basque Country had very little impact on history, culture and settlement forms. Notable is nonetheless the Atapuerca Mountains complex in northern Spain, that was inhabited in sizable communities by \"Homo antecessor\" (or \"Homo erectus antecessor\", \"Homo heidelbergensis\" and Neanderthals for many generations. The first substantial settler groups have arrived during the Riss-Würm interglacial period, between 150,000 and 75,000 BP, who left traces of Acheulean culture and technology. These groups usually settled in the riverine lowlands, near the rivers Ebro and Adour in the regions of Araba, Navarre, Labourd and Lower Navarre.\n\nHomo neanderthalensis Mousterian culture is introduced during the Middle Paleolithic. Neanderthals left a rather rich and long cultural sequence in northern Spain, who in the Basque Country populated the high coastal lands of Biscay and Gipuzkoa. Neanderthal remains have also been found in the Lezetxiki and Axlor caves.\n\nHomo sapiens first arrived on the Iberian peninsula during the Upper Paleolithic period that starts the process of replacement of Mousterian industries by the Aurignacian culture. A number of researchers suggest that the Ebro river functioned for extended periods of time as a major biological/cultural frontier that separated the anatomically modern humans in the Franco-Cantabrian region to the north from the rest of the Iberian peninsula which is occupied by Neandertals for several thousand years longer. As modern humans settled in the northern territories from around 40,000 years BCE, earliest evidence from the south dates to between 34,000 and 32,000 years BCE. The term Vasco-Cantabrian is now often used for the coastal area of the modern Basque Country and neighbouring Cantabria.\n\nWhether Homo sapiens or Neanderthal are to be attributed to the Châtelperronian (also called Lower Périgordian) culture is debated among specialists. Nonetheless there are Châtelperronian remains (deposited between 33,000 and 29,000 BCE) that were found in the Basque Country in caves such as Santimamiñe (Biscay), Labeko Koba, Ekain (Gipuzkoa), Isturitz (Lower Navarre) and Gatzarria (Soule) as well as the open-air site of Le Basté (Labourd).\n\nArtefacts of the Aurignacian culture, in particular \"Proto-Aurignacian\" objects have been found in Gatzarria and Labeko Koba.\n\nThe \"Aurignacian II\" is found in a few sites in Labourd: Le Basté and Bidart.\n\nThe \"Evolved Aurignacian\" is found mainly in Biscay and Gipuzkoa, at the sites of Lezetxiki, Aiztbitaterte IV, Koskobilo, Benta Laperra, Kurtzia and Lumentxa.\n\nThe Gravettian period (also known as Périgordian) according to the classical French sequence, assimilates Chatelperronian and Gravettian in one single cultural complex.\n\nMost of the findings belong to the upper and final Périgordian (V and VI): Santimamiñe, Atxurra, Bolinkoba, Amalda, Aitzbitarte III, Lezia, Isturitz and Gatzarria. The final phase of Périgordian VII is only found in Amalda (Gipuzkoa).\n\nThe Solutrean culture spans between around 18,000 to 15,000 BCE and only exists in the European south west, being coincident with the Last glacial maximum, a specially dry and cold period. Studies suggest that the higher regions of the western Pyrenees and massifs of the eastern Cantabrian Cordillera were only sparsely populated as glaciers descended to very low elevations and maximum sea level regression exposed another of the surrounding continental shelf. In fact Human population seems to have increased in these areas of Cantabria/Asturias, the result of a gradual influx of people, forced to abandon territories\nin north-western Europe that have become off limits due to maximum glacial conditions. ″The Solutrean represents technological developments in weaponry, presumably for increased efficiency and effectiveness in hunting in the face of worsening environmental conditions and increased regional human population density. In the Basque Country, Solutrean points were added onto an extant lithic technology usually characterizable as Gravettian with Noailles burins.″ The Basque Solutrean facies is intermediate between the Cantabrian and Pyrenean ones and is found specially in Aitzbitarte IV, Bolinkoba, Santimamiñe, Koskobilo, Isturitz, Hareguy, Ermittia and Amalda.\n\nThe Magdalenian culture can be found between around 15,000 and 8500 BCE and is widespread in Western - and later, Central Europe. Modern humans recolonize territories lost during the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) and push into northern Europe for the first time, coming from the comparatively warmer Franco-Cantabrian region, where the Magdalenian originated.\n\nMagdelenian culture and its characteristic fine art is widespread in the Basque Country. Some of the most representative sites are Santimamiñe, Lumentxa, Aitzbitarte IV, urtiaga, Ermittia, Erralla, Ekain and Berroberria. Researchers have argued, that the original Basque people have their genetic and ethnic origins in the Magdalenian paleo-human population.\n\nThe oldest expression of cave art in the Basque country could be in Venta La Perra (Biscay) showing animals like bear and bison, as well as abstract signs.\n\nNevertheless, most of the artistic expressions belong to the Magdalenian period. The most important sites are:\n\nAdditionally 13 sites have yielded portable art, being most notable that of Isturitz.\n\nIn the Epipaleolithic period, as the Last Ice Age came to an end, Magdalenian culture experienced a regionalization all around Europe, producing new localized cultural complexes. In the case of the Basque Country and the Franco-Cantabrian region as a whole, this product was Azilian, that in alter period would incorporate the geometric microliths associated with Tardenoisian and related cultures.\n\nAs the climate improved gradually, population increased and colonized areas that before were out of reach. The regions of Araba and most of Navarre were hence colonized in this period.\n\nThe period shows two phases, related to climatic conditions:\n\nAs in other post-Magdalenian areas, the disappearance of realistic cave art is quite noticeable. Instead the typical Azilian decorated pebbles have been found, as well as some geometrically decorated bones and plates. Additionally personal ornaments, made up of teeth or shells, are common as well.\n\nThe Neolithic is characterized by agriculture and animal husbandry. In the Basque Country it was a late arrival, leaving its inhabitants in a subneolithic situation almost until the beginning of metallurgy in most of the territory.\n\nThe earliest evidence of contact with Neolithic peoples is in Zatoia, northern Navarre, with pottery remains dated to c. 6000 BP. The first evidence of domestication appears in Marizulo (Gipuzkoa) c. 5300 BP. These innovations gradually expanded, though hunter-gathering activities remained being important.\n\nOverall the vast majority of important Neolithic sites are placed in the southern part of the country (Ebro valley): Fuente Hoz, Peña Larga, Berniollo and La Renke in Araba; Zatoia, Abauntz, Peña, Padre Areso and Urbasa 11 in Navarre; Herriko Barra in Gipuzkoa.\n\nIn the early phases there is only evidence of domestication of dogs. In the advanced Neolithic, remains of ovis and capra are found in sites like Fuente Hoz (Araba) and Abauntz (Navarre). In the late phase, oxen and pig are found as well. Seafood gathering remained being an important source of food in the coast.\n\nLithic industry shows total continuity with the Epipaleolithic (geometric microliths) but some new elements, like sickles and hand mills, begin to appear as well. Stone polishing makes in this period its first appearance, becoming more frequent at later dates.\n\nPottery was initially scarce, yet it became more common and variegated at the end of Neolithic (c. 3000 BCE).\n\nBurial customs became more defined in this period, using specific burial spots like dolmens, mounds or caves. A remarkable case is the massive burial site under rock of San Juan Ante Porta Latinam (Araba) that included 8,000 bone remains, belonging to at least 100 individuals.\n\nThe human type is sometimes defined as \"Western Pyrenean\".\n\nThe Chalcolithic (\"Copper and Stone\") period, also known as Eneolithic or Copper Age, lasts in the Basque Country from c. 2500 to c. 1700 BCE.\n\nWhile hunting was still of some importance, especially in mountain areas, food production became finally dominant.\n\nLithic industry persists but some tools were already made of copper (axes, knives, etc.). Gold is also used for ornaments.\n\nAn important phenomenon in the late Chalcolithic is the Bell Beaker phenomenon of pan-European extension. Also through all the period Megalithism, specially in the form of burials in dolmens, was widespread.\n\nThe Basque Country has multitude of megaliths, described as dolmens or mounds, sometimes confusingly. They are in any case burials of collective nature, placed in spots of great visibility, often on top of mountain ridges. The materials used are always of local origin.\n\nDolmens are the most typical, being formed by a chamber delimited by flat stones, often quite large, covered by another stone as roof. The monument was then covered by stones and earth, making up a mound.\n\nThe chambers are of two types: simple or with corridor. The first are more common, while the latter are limited to the Ebro valley area. Dolmens are also classified by their size, normally the largest ones being in lowland areas and the smaller ones in mountain zones. This was probably a function of the number of people available to build the monument.\n\nThe burial classified as mounds lack of chamber but were otherwise used like dolmens for collective burials. There are around 800 dolmens known in The Basque Country and c. 500 mounds, though some of these could be dolmens as well, in wait of excavation.\n\nOnly a few Basque dolmens have clear stratigraphies, due to the usage of removing older remains to make room for new burials. In spite of this difficulty, it's known that megalithic burial customs arrived to the Basque Country in the late Neolithic being very frequently used in the Chalcolithic and Early Bronze Age, and, in the case of some mounds, as late as the Iron Age.\n\nOther megalithic structures, such as standing stones (\"menhirs\") and stone circles (\"cromlechs\") seem to belong to later periods, specifically the Iron Age.\n\nThe Bronze Age spanned from c. 1700 to c. 700 BCE. It is largely a continuity of the previous period. Gradually bronze tools replaced stone and copper ones and we can find the first fortifications, that would become very common in the last centuries of this period.\n\nThis age is divided in three subperiods:\n\nMegalithism continued for most of the period, yet external influences became increasingly noticeable since the Middle Bronze Age. In Araba the influence of Cogotas I is quite remarkable, while in the copper mine of Urbiola (Navarre) brachicephallic types, surely original from continental Europe, make up a 30% of all remains.\n\nDuring the Iron Age in the 1st millennium BCE, with the arrival of Urnfield culture (proto-Celts) to the southern edge of the Basque Country (Ebro valley), there are some findings of iron tools and weapons. In the rest of the country it seems, from the few remains found, that the people remained in the cultural context of the Atlantic Bronze Age for some time.\n\nUrnfield influence is limited to the Ebro valley, penetrating the Basque Country specially in Araba, where a peculiar facies of this culture, influenced as well by pre-Indo-European cultures of Aquitaine and the Iberian plateau (Cogotas I), exists.\n\nSince c. 400 BCE, there is a noticeable Iberian influence in the Ebro valley and central Navarre. Iron then became widespread, along with other advances such as the potter's wheel and an increase of production of cereal agriculture, that would allow for a larger population. Urbanization became more elaborated as well, with reticular street design in sites like La Hoya (Biasteri, Araba).\n\nThe Atlantic basin remains less developed and purely rural but there are many coincidences with the south. There are many sites, especially in the Northern Basque Country, that are awaiting archaeological excavation.\n\nThe economy became more and more centered in agriculture, specially cereals, with less importance of cattle and a marginal role for hunt. There is evidence of growing importance of bovine cattle (oxen).\n\nBurial customs also changed, with a clear dominance of cremation in the Iron Age. The treatment of the ashes varies instead with burials in stone circles (\"cromlechs\"), mounds, caves, cists or urn fields.\n\nThe individual burial in \"cromlech\" is the most aboundant but limited to the Pyrenean region, where 851 of these funerary monuments are documented. These \"cromlechs\" have diameters of 3–7 meters, with the burial located in the middle. Corpses were not cremated inside the \"cromlech\" but in a nearby spot, with only a handful of ashes being carried to the monument in fact.\n\nCave, cist and urn field burials were rare, the latter are only found in two sites at the Ebro valley. Cist burials, surely related to Iberian customs, have been found at La Hoya. Additionally many young children have been found bruied inside homes.\n\nArt was mostly limited to decorative purposes, especially in pottery. Some cases of painted geometric decorations in homes, with an occasional human figure as well, have been found in the prolific sites of southern Araba (La Hoya, Alto de la Cruz). Some alleged \"idols\" and carved wooden boxes are also known of. Schematic mural painting, in caves or exposed rocky walls, dates, according to some authors, from this period as well.\n\nOn this substrate, an irregular Romanization would take place at the beginning of our age. Some towns like La Custodia (Biana, Navarre) would become clearly romanized, while others not far away, like La Hoya, would retain their original native character fully.\n\n"}
{"id": "48441662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48441662", "title": "Boris Kloss", "text": "Boris Kloss\n\nBoris Mikhailovich Kloss (; born 19 December 1932) is a Russian historian, source critic, specialist in palaeography and archeography, a university professor, Doctor of History (1989); head of the History of Religion and Church Centre, Honorary Doctor of the European University (2003), member of the International Association of the Old Slavic Studies (1992). He studied under Andrey Kolmogorov, Lev Cherepnin, Militsa Nechkina.\nKloss was born in Moscow in the family of a military man. He graduated from the Mechanics and Mathematics Faculty of the Moscow State University in 1956. In 1958 he started working for the USSR Institute of Automatics. Since 1971 he worked at the USSR Institute of History under the Russian Academy of Sciences. He completed the thesis in the topic \"The Nikon Chronicle and the Russian Chronicles of the 16th-17th centuries\". In 1980-1990 he simultaneously taught at the Moscow State University, the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology and Russian State University for the Humanities. He became a renown specialist in Kievan Rus' literature, specifically in Russian hagiography. He lectured in various universities of the United States, Poland, Norway, Russia.\n\n"}
{"id": "20864405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20864405", "title": "Boudica (film)", "text": "Boudica (film)\n\nBoudica (released in the United States as Warrior Queen) is a British television film released in 2003. Starring Alex Kingston, Steven Waddington and Emily Blunt, in her film debut, the film is a biopic of the queen of the Iceni tribe, Boudica.\n\nBoudica, the Warrior Queen of Britain, leads her tribe into rebellion against the Roman Empire and the mad Emperor of Rome Nero.\n\nThe film used locations in the United Kingdom and Romania. The Boudica statue by Thomas Thornycroft near Westminster Pier, London, was used for the film's closing scenes in modern-day London. In Romania, the MediaPro Studios, Bucharest, were used.\n\nThe film has been released as \"A Rainha da Era do Bronze\" in Brazil, as \"La Reina de los guerreros\" in Argentina (video title) and as \"Warrior Queen\" in the United States.\n\nAccording to the movie, King Prasutagus of the Icenii died at about the same time as the Roman emperor Claudius. However, the latter died in 54 AD, while the former died in 61 AD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37861913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37861913", "title": "Calendar of Regrets", "text": "Calendar of Regrets\n\nCalendar of Regrets is a postmodern novel by Lance Olsen, published by Fiction Collective Two in 2010.\n\n\"Calendar of Regrets\" is a collage novel comprising twelve interconnected narratives, one for each month of the year, all pertaining to notions of travel—through time, space, narrative, and death.\n\nThe narratives involve: 1) the poisoning of the painter Hieronymus Bosch; 2) former CBS anchorman Dan Rather's mysterious mugging on Park Avenue as he strolled home alone one evening; 3) a series of postcard meditations on the idea of travel from a young American journalist visiting Burma; 4) a high school teacher who videos her own auto-erotic asphyxiation and sends them to strangers across the U.S.; 5) a husband-and-wife team of fundamentalist Christian suicide bombers in London; 6) a terrorist commandeering a family's car on the Italian Autostrada; 7) the myth of Iphigenia from Agamemnon’s daughter’s point of view; 8) a series of pirate podcasts by a young drifter along the shores of the Salton Sea in southern California; 9) an interview between forensic psychiatrist Park Dietz and the man who assaulted Dan Rather; 10) an angel (based on the one appearing in symbolist Hugo Simberg's famous painting titled \"The Wounded Angel\") discovered by two boys in the Finnish countryside; 11) a man built of borrowed organs, each with its own story; 12) a boy born as a notebook.\n\nEach narrative is composed in a unique style and genre, breaks off in the middle, and is nested inside the one that preceded it. The twelfth forms the mid-point of the novel. Each interrupted narrative then concludes. Reminiscent of David Mitchell's \"Cloud Atlas\", they form a mosaic, connected through a pattern of musical motifs, transposed scenes, and recurring characters. \"Calendar of Regrets\" is a narrative about narrativity itself, the human obsession with telling ourselves and our worlds over and over again in an attempt to stabilize a truth that, as Vladimir Nabokov once said, should only exist within quotation marks.\n\n\"Review of Contemporary Fiction\" wrote \"these stories explore the perplexity about ways of knowing and how knowledge is made manifest through storytelling,\" while \"Rain Taxi\" said Olsen's novel \"ultimately reminds us of the ways that art and narrative doggedly navigate that thin line between the drive for order and the deep-seated realization that the universe that greets us each morning has only increased its entropy.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1606497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1606497", "title": "Casamance conflict", "text": "Casamance conflict\n\nThe Casamance conflict is an ongoing low-level conflict that has been waged between the Government of Senegal and the Movement of Democratic Forces of Casamance (MFDC) since 1982. On May 1, 2014 the leader of the MFDC sued for peace and declared a unilateral ceasefire.\n\nThe MFDC has called for the independence of the Casamance region, whose population is religiously and ethnically distinct from the rest of Senegal. The bloodiest years of the conflict were during the 1992–2001 period and resulted in over a thousand battle related deaths.\n\nOn December 30, 2004 an agreement was reached between the MFDC and the government which promised to provide the voluntary integration of MFDC fighters into the country's paramilitary forces, economic recovery programmes for Casamance, de-mining and aid to returning refugees. Nevertheless, some hard-line factions of the MFDC soon defected from elements of the MFDC who had signed the agreement and no negotiations took place following the breakdown of talks in Foundiougne on 2 February 2005.\n\nFighting again emerged in 2010 and 2011 but waned following the April 2012 election of Macky Sall. Peace negotiations under the auspices of Saint Egidio community took place in Rome and on 14 December 2012, President Sall announced that Casamance would be a test-case for advanced decentralization policy.\n\nThe Casamance region is the southern region of Senegal which, although connected in the East to Senegal, is separated from the rest of Senegal by the Gambia. The principal inhabitants of the region are members of the Jola ethnic group and many are Christians or animists, unlike the majority of Senegalese who are Muslims. The sentiment has existed amongst Diola that they do not benefit sufficiently from the region's richness and that Dakar, the capital, reaps most of the profit from the region's products.\n\nIn the 1980s, resentment about the marginalization and exploitation of Casamance by the Senegalese central government gave rise to an independence movement in form of the MFDC, which was officially founded in 1982. This initial movement managed to unite Jola and other ethnic groups in the region, such as Fulani, Mandinka and Bainuk, and led to rising popular resistance against the government and northerners. The MFDC began to organise demonstrations, and tensions eventually escalated in massive riots in December 1983. The Senegalese government answered by dividing the Casamance province into two smaller regions, probably in order to split and weaken the independence movement. This only heightened tensions, and the government began to jail MFDC leaders such as Augustin Diamacoune Senghor.\n\nAnother factor in the growing independence movement was the failure of the Senegambia Confederation in 1989, which had economically benefited Casamance and whose end only worsened the situation of Casamance's population.\n\nThe discovery of oil in the region emboldened the MFDC to organise mass demonstrations for immediate independence in 1990, which were brutally suppressed by the Senegalese military. This pushed the MFDC into armed rebellion. The following fighting was vicious, and 30,000 civilians were displaced by 1994. Several ceasefires were agreed during the 1990s, but none lasted, often also due to splits within the MFDC along ethnic lines and between those ready negotiate and those who refused to lay down their weapons. In 1992 the MFDC divided into two main groups, Front Sud and Front Nord. Whereas Front Sud was dominated by Jola and called for full independence, Front Nord included both Jola as well as non-Jola tribesmen and was ready to work with the government based on a failed agreement of 1991. Another ceasefire in 1993 led to the break-off of hardline rebel groups from the MFDC. These continued to attack the military.\n\nThe Senegalese military relocated thousands of soldiers from the northern provinces to Casamance in 1995 in an attempt to finally crush the uprising. The northern soldiers often mistreated the local population and did not differentiate between those who supported the rebels and government loyalists. By this time, the rebels had established bases in Guinea-Bissau, reportedly being supplied with arms by Bissau-Guinean military commander Ansumane Mané. Mané's alleged support for the separatists was one factor which led to the Guinea-Bissau Civil War that erupted in 1998. When Senegal decided to send its military into Guinea-Bissau to fight for the local government against Mané's forces, the latter and the MFDC formed a full alliance. The two rebel movements started to fight side by side in both Senegal as well as Guinea-Bissau. Although the Senegal-supported government of Guinea-Bissau collapsed, the following MFDC-sympathetic regime was also overthrown in May 1999.\n\nIn an renwed offensive against the separatists between April and June 1999, the Senegalese military shelled Casamance's \"de facto\" capital Ziguinchor for the first time, causing numerous civilian casualties and the displacement of 20,000 people along the Senegal–Guinea-Bissau border. From then on, fighting mostly took place in the eastern Kolda Region. Another attempt at peace talks started in December 1999, with Senegalese and MFDC representatives meeting in Banjul. Both sides agreed to a ceasefire.\n\nPeace talks resumed in January 2000, with both sides attempting to end the military conflict and aiming at restoring political and economic normality to Casamance. Discussions were held about the MFDC transforming into a political party, but the talks were hindered by the MFDC's factionalism, and the refusal of the Senegalese government to even consider Casamance's independence. As result, the peace talks collapsed in November 2000, with MFDC leader Augustin Diamacoune Senghor declaring that his group would continue to fight until achieving independence. A new ceasefire was agreed to in March 2001, but failed to stop the conflict. Meanwhile, internal divisions deepened among the MFDC about the movement's aims and Senghor's leadership.\n\nOn 30 December 2004, the two sides of the conflict signed a truce, which lasted until August 2006.\n\nSince the split, low-level fighting has continued in the region. Another round of negotiations took place in 2005. Its results were, however, proved partial and armed clashes between MFDC factions and the army continued in 2006, prompting thousands of civilians to flee across the border to The Gambia. \n\nOn 2 January 2006, anti-talk MFDC insurgents committed several armed robberies and killed a senior Diouloulou official. The insurgents notoriously adopted Rick Derringer's \"Rock 'n' Roll Hoochie Koo\" as an anthem of sorts.\n\nOn 23 April 2006, rebels attacked a Senegalese army outpost in Nyassia. The incident came after Guinea Bissauan troops shelled insurgent positions in Baraca Mandioca, Bazere, Koumere, Kassou and other areas, earlier in April.\n\nOn 20 December 2006, a Senegalese army vehicle triggered a landmine in the outskirts of Sindian.\n\nOn 20 December 2006, rebels attacked a Senegalese army vehicle near the village of Kagnaru, killing 2 and wounding 14 soldiers.\n\nThe attacks came as a response to the demining process launched by the Senegalese army without consultations with the rebels. The demining operation was led by Moroccan army experts.\n\nOn 13 January 2007, Augustin Diamacoune Senghor, the charismatic leader of MDFC died in Paris. His death hastened the split of the MDFC, which divided into three major armed factions, led by Salif Sadio, Caesar Badiatte, and Mamadou Niantang Diatta respectively.\n\nOn 31 July 2007, one rebel was killed and one injured, after opposing factions of MDFC engaged in a skirmish outside the Bai Pol village, Gambia.\n\nOn 7 June 2009, MDFC gunmen killed 3 people in the area of Dailoulou.\n\nOn 9 June 2009, radical MDFC militants killed a former MFDC member, who at the time was serving as a peace process mediator.\n\nOn 25 August 2009, MFDC insurgents engaged in heavy clashes with security forces in the city of Ziguinchor; the University of Ziguinchor was among the buildings damaged during the firefight.\n\nOn 9 September 2009, one soldier was killed after MFDC rebels fired at an army outpost in Diabir.\n\nOn 2 October 2009, MFDC insurgents ambushed an army vehicle in the Kolda region. The insurgents attacked the troops in the vehicle with guns and rocket propelled grenades after they became stuck on a muddy road. Seven Senegalese troops, including a captain, were killed and a further four were wounded.\n\nBetween 16–21 March 2010, 3 soldiers were killed and 10 wounded, as Senegalese troops carried out operations in the Baraf, Kassana and Mamatoro districts of Casamance.\n\nIn October 2010, an illegal shipment of arms from Iran was seized in Lagos, Nigeria. The Senegalese government suspected that the arms were destined for the Casamance, and recalled its ambassador to Tehran over the matter. Heavy fighting occurred in December 2010 when about 100 MDFC fighters attempted to take Bignona south of the Gambian border supported by heavy weapons, such as mortars and machine guns. They were repulsed with several casualties by Senegalese soldiers who suffered seven dead in the engagement.\n\nOn 26 August 2011, MFDC rebels robbed several people, on the Senoba-Ziguinchor road in northern Casamance, and later exchanged fire with soldiers outside the village of Diango.\n\nOn 21 December 2011, Senegal media reported that 12 soldiers were killed in Senegal's Casamance region following a separatist rebel attack on an army base near the town of Bignona.\n\nThree soldiers were killed during a clash 50 kilometers (31 mi) north of Ziguinchor. The Senegalese government blamed the conflict on separatists in the region on February 14, 2012.\n\nTwo attacks occurred on 11 and 23 March 2012, leaving 4 soldiers killed and 8 injured.\n\nSince April 2012, peace in the Casamance has been a top priority for the administration of Senegalese President Macky Sall.\n\nOn 3 February 2013, four people were killed during a bank robbery perpetrated by the MFDC in the town of Kafoutine; the rebels stole a total of $8,400.\n\nOn 1 May 2014, one of the leaders of the Movement of Democratic Forces of Casamance, Salif Sadio, sued for peace and declared a unilateral cease-fire after secret talks held at the Vatican between his forces and the Government of Senegal led by Macky Sall.\n\nYahya Jammeh has been known to recruit MFDC fighters into the Gambian military, reportedly since they are more inclined to be loyal to Jammeh's regime than the people of the Gambia. During the 2017 ECOWAS military intervention in the Gambia, MFDC rebels supported pro-Jammeh forces. \n\nMember of the group were suspected of being behind an ambush that left 13 people dead near the town of Ziguinchor on 6 January 2018. Leaders of the MFDC, however, have denied responsibility for the execution-style killing, which they say was connected with the illegal harvesting of teak wood and rosewood from the forested region, not the gathering of firewood. \n\n"}
{"id": "25052156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25052156", "title": "Chaldean Catholic Eparchy of Mardin", "text": "Chaldean Catholic Eparchy of Mardin\n\nMardin was a diocese of the Chaldean Church from the sixteenth to the twentieth century. The diocese lapsed in 1941. Prior to this, it was a diocese of the Assyrian Church of the East, from which the Chaldean Catholic Church originated.\n\nFiey’s list of the Assyrian bishops of Mardin is derived principally from the list compiled by Tfinkdji in 1913. Tfinkdji's treatment of the diocese of Mardin, where he was himself an Assyrian Chaldean Catholic priest, is more than usually detailed, but although containing much valuable information is not free from error. From the middle of the eighteenth century onward, most of the Chaldean bishops of Mardin were buried in the city's church of Rabban Hormizd and the dates of their deaths were recorded in their epitaphs. These dates were used by Tfinkdji, and most of them also appear in an undated note made around the end of the nineteenth century in a manuscript in the Mardin collection, which lists the bishops of Mardin from Basil Hesro (\"ob.\" 1738) to Peter Timothy Attar (\"ob.\" 1891), giving wherever known the dates of their consecration and death. The author of the note is not known, but may have been Tfinkdji himself, despite occasional discrepancies in some of the dates given. Details of this kind, based on first-hand knowledge and personal recollection, can probably be trusted. Elsewhere, particularly for the early history of the diocese, his evidence is contradicted by other sources, and cannot be relied upon.\n\nThe Chaldean diocese of Mardin appears to have been founded in the second half of the sixteenth-century, either by Yohannan Sulaqa or (more probably) his successor Abdisho IV Maron, after Saluqa broke from the Assyrian Church of the East in 1553 AD. Tfinkdji gave the following list of supposed bishops of Mardin from 1194 to 1512, apparently contained in an evangelary copied in 1621: Yaqob of Amid (1194–1227); Isaac of Nisibis (1229–51); Marqos of Mardin (1252–75); Denha of Maiperqat (1280–1301); Quriaqos of Dunaysir [according to Tfinkdji the old name of the Mardin village of Tel Armen] (1305–17); Stephen of Mardin (1319–40); Giwargis of Resh Aïna (1345–61); Eleazar of Kfartutha (1364–75); Samuel of Edessa (1378–95); Yohannan of Seert (1397–1400); Yahballaha of Gazarta (1400–09); Yalda of Amid (1410–29); Peter of Mardin (1431–45); Sabrisho of Gazarta (1448–68); Eliya of Mosul (1470–86); and Timothy of Hesna d'Kifa (1488–1512).\n\nThis list is of very doubtful authenticity. Firstly, although some of its names are plausible, it is surprising to find Assyrian bishops from the West Syriac centres of Resh Aïna, Kfartutha and Edessa, and the names Eleazar and Samuel are also rarely found in the Assyrian Church of the East. Secondly, none of the bishops named is mentioned elsewhere. Finally, the list conflicts with other evidence indicating that Mardin was not a separate diocese until after the schism of 1552.\n\nIn the literary sources Mardin appears three times in the title of the Assyrian Church of the East bishops of Maiperqat, but not as a separate diocese. The patriarch Yahballaha II (1190–1222) was bishop 'of Maiperqat and Mardin' before becoming metropolitan of Nisibis in 1176; the bishop Yohannan 'of Maiperqat, Amid and Mardin' was present at the consecration of Makkikha II in 1257; and the bishop Ishodnah of 'Maiperqat, Amid and Mardin' was present at the consecration of Denha I in 1265. Furthermore, the dating formulas of manuscripts copied in Mardin in 1502 and 1540/1 mention the patriarch Shemon VII Ishoyahb and, respectively, the metropolitan Eliya of Amid and the metropolitan and \"natar kursya\" Hnanisho. Neither colophon mentions a bishop of Mardin.\n\nThe metropolitan Ishoyahb of Nisibis, a supporter of Shemon VII Isho‘yahb and his successor Eliya VII, is styled 'metropolitan of Nisibis, Mardin, Amid and all Armenia' in a colophon of 1554, and 'metropolitan of Nisibis, Mardin and Armenia' in colophons of 1558 and 1560. The earlier title may have been intended to challenge the authority of Sulaqa's metropolitan Eliya of Amid, and both styles may be evidence that Mardin was at this period loyal to Shemon VII Ishoyahb and did not yet have its own bishop.\n\nMardin was ranked as a suffragan diocese of Nisibis in the list of Abdisho IV Maron in 1562, together with the dioceses of 'Tallescani' and 'Macchazin'. Presumably these were East Syriac villages near Mardin and Nisibis, but they have not been localised.\n\nThis reference is of some interest. The first indisputable metropolitan of Mardin was Hnanisho, a native of the Mardin village of Tabyatha, who copied at least seven manuscripts between 1564 and 1586. According to Tfinkdji, he was one of the five bishops consecrated by Yohannan Sulaqa after his return from Rome in 1553 and this may well be true, though Tfinkdji's authority for this claim is not clear. Alternatively, as he is not mentioned before 1564, it is perhaps more likely that he was consecrated by Sulaqa's successor Abdisho IV Maron. He was certainly a supporter of the union with Rome, as the catholicus Abdisho IV is mentioned in the colophon of his earliest manuscript. He also copied a manuscript in the monastery of Mar Yaqob near Seert in 1569, the patriarchal residence of Abdisho IV.\n\nHnanisho was one of the signatories of a letter of 1580 from the fourth Catholic patriarch Shemon IX Denha to pope Gregory XIII. In 1582, he visited Jerusalem, where he celebrated the feast of the Resurrection on 15 April. He completed a copy of a manuscript at Mardin on 10 December 1586, and was not among the metropolitans who witnessed the profession of faith of Eliya VII at Alqosh a fortnight later on 23 December 1586. An archbishop Hnanisho 'of Mansuriya', probably the same man, is included in Leonard Abel's 1587 list of 'the most literate men in the Nestorian nation'.\n\nHnanisho may have died shortly afterwards. Thereafter, until 1615, Mardin appears to have been under the jurisdiction of Yaqob, metropolitan of Nisibis. Yaqob is mentioned in the report of 1607 as 'metropolitan of Mardin', and in 1614 is styled 'metropolitan of Nisibis and Mardin' in a letter of Peter Strozza.\n\nAccording to Tfinkdji, the next three seventeenth-century metropolitans of Mardin were Yohannan (1615–41), Joseph (1641–78), and Shemon of Amid (1682–95). The source for some of these dates is not clear, and the evidence from the dating formulas of manuscripts is contradictory. The title of Timothy, metropolitan of Amid between 1615 and his death in 1621/2, also included Mardin, suggesting that Yohannan's reign began in 1622 or later. The metropolitan Yohannan of Mardin, said by Tfinkdji to have died in Nisibis in 1641, is mentioned in the dating formulas of manuscripts of 1635 and 1645. The name and (presumably incorrect) reign-dates of the metropolitan Joseph were contained in a note in an East Syriac manuscript copied in 1679 and seen by Tfinkji in a Jacobite church. Shemon of Amid is said to have been consecrated by Joseph I, and to have died at Mardin in 1695.\n\nAccording to Tfinkdji Timothy Maroge, who succeeded Joseph II as patriarch of the Chaldeans in 1714, was metropolitan of Mardin between 1696 and 1713. According to his own account, however, which has been preserved in the Vatican archives, he was metropolitan of Amid, though he also ministered to the Chaldeans of Mardin.\n\nThe bishop Basil Hesro of Mardin was one of three bishops (with Basil of Amid and Shemon of Seert) consecrated by Joseph III before his departure for Rome in 1731. According to Fiey, following Tfinkdji, he was consecrated in 1714, but in the patriarch's own account the two Basils were consecrated 'one after the death of the other'. Since Basil of Amid died in 1728, Basil Hesro must have been consecrated between 1728 and 1731. He seems to have died in September 1738. In March 1739, the patriarchal administrator Shemon Kemo and the clergy and people of Amid and Mardin wrote several letters to Joseph III at Rome to inform him of Basil's death and to plead for Joseph's return. These letters state that he died on 26 September 1738 and mention that he had been appointed patriarchal vicar by the Sacred Congregation. He was the first bishop of Mardin to be buried in the church of Rabban Hormizd, and according to his epitaph in the church died on 25 September 1738, a day earlier than the date given in the Vatican correspondence. A note in a manuscript in the Diyarbakr collection gives the date of his death as 10 January 1739, probably incorrectly.\n\nBasil Hesro was succeeded shortly after his death by the priest Yohannan of Mardin, who was consecrated by Joseph III and also took the name Basil in honour of his predecessor (Tfinkdji). He cannot have been consecrated in 1738, as Tfinkdji stated, as Joseph III only returned to Amid at the end of 1741. He is probably to be identified with the 95-year-old metropolitan of Mardin mentioned by Cardinal Tamburini at the beginning of 1757 as the sole surviving Catholic bishop in the Amid patriarchate (following the recent deaths of the patriarch Joseph III and the metropolitan Timothy Masaji of Amid). He consecrated Lazar Hindi metropolitan of Amid on 8 February 1857, and according to his epitaph he died shortly afterwards, on 25 February 1758.\n\nYohannan was succeeded by the metropolitan Shemon of Amid, apparently consecrated by Joseph III in 1758. In 1782, he intervened to secure protection for the Syriac Catholic patriarch Michael III Jarweh, who was persecuted by the Jacobites of Mardin after his conversion to Catholicism. According to his epitaph, he died on 19 November 1788.\n\nShemon was succeeded in 1795 by the priest Mikha'il Shawriz of Seert, the brother of the metropolitan Peter Shawriz of Seert. According to the patriarch Yohannan VIII Hormizd, whose account is quoted by the Anglican missionary George Percy Badger, he was consecrated between November 1793 and 14 February 1794 in an irregular manner on the initiative of Augustine Hindi:\nAll this time I had received no letters from Diarbekir or Mardeen, for it appears that they would not receive the orders of our lord the Pope; on the contrary, Kasha Agostîn went to Sert, where there was a presbyter named Michael. Him he took to one of the Tcawâlakha [Jilu] Metropolitans and got him consecrated Metropolitan, and set him over Mardeen without the consent of our lord the Pope.\nBecause of the irregularity of his consecration, Mikha'il was excommunicated by the Vatican but was absolved by pope Pius VI in 1795 and confirmed as bishop of Mardin. Tfinkdji, followed by Fiey, gives the date of his death as 3 April 1810.\n\nMikha'il was succeeded by Ignatius Dashto of Alqosh, a monk of the monaster of Rabban Hormizd, who was born in 1794 and ordained a priest in 1821. According to Tfinkdji, he was consecrated by Augustine Hindi in 1824 but according to another source, he was consecrated in 1827 and died on 12 July 1868. According to Badger, he was consecrated by Augustine Hindi (who liked to style himself Mar Joseph V) along with four other monks and was sent to Mardin to embarrass Yohannan Hormizd:\nMar Yoosef took upon himself to send Mutran Michael to Sert, and Mutran Ignatius to Mardeen, though this latter town had been placed under the jurisdiction of Mutran Hanna by the Pope himself.\nIgnatius Dashto was succeeded by Gabriel Farso, who was consecrated in 1870 and died on 27 June 1873. He was succeeded by Peter Timothy Attar, who was consecrated metropolitan of Amid in 1870 and transferred to Mardin in 1873 on Farso's premature death. He died on 1 November 1891, but seems to have been succeeded as metropolitan of Mardin some years before his death by Yohannan Eliya Mellus, \"c.\"1887–1908.\n\nA number of manuscripts in the Mardin collection, some of which were later donated to the Vatican, formed part of the personal collection of the metropolitan Yohannan Eliya Mellus in the 1880s.\n\nIn 1910, Israel Audo became metropolitan of Mardin, but the 1918 Assyrian Genocide eliminated the Chaldean presence in Mardin, and the diocese was abolished after his death in 1941.\n\nThe modern day Chaldean population of Mardin is said to include only one family, and they hold the key to the Chaldean Catholic Church of Mardin, which is still maintained but inactive. The Church is now under the control of the Chaldean Catholic Archeparchy of Amida.\n\nIn 1842, the diocese of Mardin consisted only of the town itself, which had a church, four priests, and 60 Chaldean families (Badger). In 1852 the diocese of Mardin and Nisibis contained 500 Chaldeans (Marchi). In 1867, the diocese contained 2 villages and had a population of 1,000 Chaldeans, served by 2 priests (Martin).\n\nIn 1896, the diocese of Mardin had 850 Chaldeans, with a parish for Mardin itself, and four stations, one of which was near Nisibis (Chabot). There were then 3 priests, assisted by a Capuchin house in the diocese.\n\nIn 1913, the diocese of Mardin consisted of 1,670 believers, with 6 priests, a church, 2 chapels, 3 schools, and 2 mission stations (Tfinkdji). The majority lived in Mardin itself. There were also small Chaldean communities living alongside much larger groups of West Syriac and Armenian Christians in Midyat, Nisibis, Derik, Viransehir, and the village of Tel Armen. The only significant Chaldean settlement left in the vicinity of Mardin was the village of Issadeir, several miles to the north.\n\nIn 2005 the Chaldean Catholic Church was reopened, and served 5 Chaldean families. Due to the absence of a Chaldean Catholic priest, the church is managed by a local Syriac Orthodox priest.\n\n"}
{"id": "32620598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32620598", "title": "Count Francis Lützow", "text": "Count Francis Lützow\n\nFranz Heinrich Hieronymus Valentin Graf von Lützow or Hrabě František Lützow or Count Francis Lützow (21 Mar 1849 Hamburg – 13 Jan 1916 Territet, Vaud, Switzerland) was a Bohemian (Czech) author, historian, critic and revivalist.\n\nHrabe František Lützow was the son of Franz Joseph Johann Nepomuk Gottfried von Lützow and Henriette Seymour. He was educated at Vienna and Innsbruck and followed a diplomatic career. He was active in Bohemian politics and became a member of the Austrian parliament and Chamberlain to the Emperor Franz Joseph from 1881. He married Anna Gustava von Bornemann (6 Jan 1853 Paris – 18 Apr 1932 London) on 18 Jan 1881 in London. \n\nA tireless champion of Bohemian independence from the Austro-Hungarian Empire, he was a member of the Royal Society of Sciences in Bohemia, and of the Bohemian Academy. \n\nHe was Ilchester lecturer at Oxford (1904), and in 1912 lectured at American universities.\n\nPerhaps his greatest accomplishments are his various books regarding the history of Bohemia, Prague, Slavic poetry, Historiography and Literature. His works were intentionally written in the English language and were thus more easily accessible to Western decision-makers who would eventually agree to the formation of an independent Czechoslovakia after the end of World War I. The first president of Czechoslovakia, Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk wrote a touching introduction to Lützow's 1939 edition of 'Bohemia, An Historical Sketch' and expressed gratitude for Lützow's various contributions to Czechoslovakia's independence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22427852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22427852", "title": "D'Alembert’s Dream", "text": "D'Alembert’s Dream\n\nD'Alembert’s Dream ( or The Dream of D'Alembert, ) is an ensemble of three philosophical dialogues authored by Denis Diderot in 1769, which first appeared in Grimm's \"Correspondance Littéraire\" in 1782, but was not published in its own right until 1830:\n\n\nIn this work, Diderot is at the zenith of his development of materialist theories. It is here that he introduces his theory on life and nature, indicating that matter is not fixed but that, on the contrary, subject to evolution. Each species in existence transforms itself and gives birth to a new species.\n\nHe would later create a special version for his patroness, Catherine II of Russia, replacing the certain character names.\n\nBoth Julie de Lespinasse and D’Alembert took poorly to being used as protagonists of the conversations.\n\n"}
{"id": "30818716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30818716", "title": "Dausdava", "text": "Dausdava\n\nDausdava () was a Dacian town in Moesia between the Danube and the Balkan Mountains, in the region between Nicopolis (modern Nikopol, Bulgaria) and Abritus (modern Razgrad).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51361648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51361648", "title": "Day of Songun", "text": "Day of Songun\n\nThe Day of \"Songun\" () is a public holiday in North Korea celebrated on 25 August annually to commemorate the beginning of Kim Jong-il's \"Songun\" (military-first) leadership in 1960.\n\nIn 2013, Kim Jong-un elevated the holiday to an official status on the North Korean calendar, on par with the Day of the Sun (birth anniversary of Kim Il-sung). Thus it became the holiday associated with Kim Jong-un, with his own birthday still missing from the official calendar. This has helped to further Kim Jong-un's charismatic rule. According to North Korea analyst Adam Cathcart, the purpose of the holiday is \"to reinforce Kim Jong-un's legitimacy to rule, confirm the principle of very early succession and young leadership, and emphasize the preternatural military abilities of the sons in the Kim family.\"\n\nOn the calendar, the 25 August holiday takes place after the Liberation Day (15 August) and before the Day of the Foundation of the Republic (인민정권_창건일) (9 September). Day of \"Songun\" is one of three days celebrating Kim Jong-il on the calendar, the other two being the Day of the Shining Star (his birth anniversary) and Generalissimo Day (commemorating his accession to the rank of \"Taewonsu\").\n\n\"Songun\" (military-first) is the political ideology peculiar to North Korea that all problems in society can be corrected by giving priority to military affairs. Its roots are traced to Kim Il-sung's activities during the anti-Japanese struggle of the 1930s, but it is especially identified with Kim Jong-il. Lately, \"Songun\" has been associated with Kim Jong-un in his effort balance the interests of the ruling Workers' Party of Korea and the Korean People's Army (KPA). According to Fyodor Tertitskiy, the term has largely lost its original meaning and now simply means anything \"good\". Consequentially, Day of \"Songun\" is not so much about the army as it is about the person of Kim Jong-il.\n\nUntil 2005, the history of Kim Jong-il's \"Songun\" leadership was presented as having begun on 1 January 1995 with his visit to a guard-post. After 2005, the date was backtracked to 1960 to suggest a much longer held tradition. The Day of \"Songun\" commemorates his supposed 25 August 1960 inspection of the Seoul Ryu Kyong Su Guards 105th Tank Division with his father Kim Il-sung. The visit is considered the beginning of his \"Songun\" leadership. Although Jong-il would have been 18 then and not yet started his studies at Kim Il-sung University, according to, Tertitskiy, \"[t]he date looks right, as it seemingly the date when Kim Jong Il made his first steps up the political ladder\".\n\nThe commemoration was not a major celebration under Kim Jong-il's rule, but there had been annual celebrations even before the holiday was officially instituted. Plans for an official holiday surfaced in 2012, and the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) reported some celebration of a \"Day of \"Songun\"\" already back then. Kim Jong-un delivered a speech during the 2012 festivities, entitled \"Only Victory and Glory Will Be in Store for Us Who are Advancing under the Unfurled Flag Bearing the Immortal Beaming Images of the Great Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il\".\n\nThe next year, on 25 August 2013, Kim Jong-un officially announced the holiday in a long speech, entitled \"Let Us Forever Glorify Comrade Kim Jong Il's Great Idea and Achievements of the Military-First Revolution\", published in \"Rodong Sinmun\" and \"Joson Inmingun\". In it, Kim Jong-un declared:\nThe next day, 26 August, a decree on instituting the Day of \"Songun\" as an annual national holiday was adopted by the Supreme People's Assembly.\n\nThe Day of \"Songun\" is marked with flying the flag of North Korea, by civilians, and the flag of the Supreme Commander of the KPA by military units. Observances include galas for service people, dancing parties around the country, outdoor concerts, laying bouquets, and visiting historic sites. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1504013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1504013", "title": "Dongdan Kingdom", "text": "Dongdan Kingdom\n\nDongdan Kingdom (926–936) (東丹, Khitan language: Dan Gur, Simplified Chinese: 东丹, Korean: 동란) was the puppet kingdom established by the Khitan to rule the realm of the Balhae in Eastern Manchuria (now partially in North Eastern China). \n\nAfter conquering the Dan Gur (Balhae in Khitan language) in 926, the Khitan crown prince Yelü Bei ascended to the throne of it at the Holhan fortress, the capital of Balhae, today's Mudanjiang, Heilongjiang Province. It used Dongdan as its Chinese name, which means the east Dan Gur, in respect to the West Liao dynasty.\n\nHowever, political tension soon evolved between Yelü Bei and his younger brother Yelü Deguang, who took the imperial throne of Khitan after their father Yelü Abaoji died, en route to his homeland from a relatively successful campaign against the Later Tang. The new emperor ordered his elder brother to move his capital from Huhan in Eastern Manchuria to Liaoyang in Western Manchuria.\n\nBei obeyed the imperial order but soon fled to North China to avoid possible assassination in 930. Bei's son was elevated to the new king of Dongdan, but the kingdom was annexed by the Liao Dynasty in 936.\n\nTo continue Balhae's friendly relations with Japan, Dongdan sent a diplomatic mission over the Sea of Japan (East Sea) in 929. But the Japanese court in Kyoto rejected the mission from Dongdan, due to loyalty for the old Balhae regime.\n\n<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "118582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=118582", "title": "Early modern Europe", "text": "Early modern Europe\n\nEarly modern Europe is the period of European history between the end of the Middle Ages and the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, roughly the late 15th century to the late 18th century. Historians variously mark the beginning of the early modern period with the invention of moveable type printing in the 1450s, the Fall of Constantinople in 1453, the end of the Wars of the Roses in 1487, the beginning of the High Renaissance in Italy in the 1490s, the end of the Reconquista and subsequent voyages of Christopher Columbus to the Americas in 1492, or the start of the Protestant Reformation in 1517. The precise dates of its end point also vary and are usually linked with either the start of the French Revolution in 1789 or with the more vaguely defined beginning of the Industrial Revolution in late 18th century England.\n\nSome of the more notable trends and events of the early modern period included the Reformation and the religious conflicts it provoked (including the French Wars of Religion and the Thirty Years' War), the rise of capitalism and modern nation states, widespread witch hunts and European colonization of the Americas.\n\nThe early modern period was characterized by profound changes in many realms of human endeavor. Among the most important include the development of science as a formalized practice, increasingly rapid technological progress, and the establishment of secularized civic politics, law courts and the nation state. Capitalist economies began to develop in a nascent form, first in the northern Italian republics such as Genoa and Venice and in the cities of the Low Countries, later in France, Germany and England. The early modern period also saw the rise and dominance of the economic theory of mercantilism. As such, the early modern period is often associated with the decline and eventual disappearance (at least in Western Europe) of feudalism and serfdom. The Protestant Reformation greatly altered the religious balance of Christendom, creating a formidable new opposition to the dominance of the Catholic Church, especially in Northern Europe. The early modern period also witnessed the circumnavigation of the Earth and the establishment of regular European contact with the Americas and South and East Asia. The ensuing rise of global systems of international economic, cultural and intellectual exchange played an important role in the development of capitalism and represents the earliest phase of globalization.\n\nRegardless of the precise dates used to define its beginning and end points, the early modern period is generally agreed to have comprised the Renaissance, the Reformation, the Scientific Revolution, and the Enlightenment. As such, historians have attributed a number of fundamental changes to the period, notably the increasingly rapid progress of science and technology, the secularization of politics, and the diminution of the absolute authority of the Roman Catholic Church as well as the lessening of the influence of all faiths upon national governments. Many historians have identified the early modern period as the epoch in which individuals began to think of themselves as belonging to a national polity—a notable break from medieval modes of self-identification, which had been largely based upon religion (belonging to a universal Christendom), language, or feudal allegiance (belonging to the manor or extended household of a particular magnate or lord). \n\nThe beginning of the early modern period is not clear-cut, but is generally accepted to be in the late 15th century or early 16th century. Significant dates in this transitional phase from medieval to early modern Europe can be noted:\n\n\nThe end date of the early modern period is variously associated with the Industrial Revolution, which began in Britain in about 1750, or the beginning of the French Revolution in 1789, which drastically transformed the state of European politics and ushered in the Napoleonic Era and modern Europe.\n\nThe role of nobles in the Feudal System had yielded to the notion of the Divine Right of Kings during the Middle Ages (in fact, this consolidation of power from the land-owning nobles to the titular monarchs was one of the most prominent themes of the Middle Ages). Among the most notable political changes included the abolition of serfdom and the crystallization of kingdoms into nation-states. Perhaps even more significantly, with the advent of the Reformation, the notion of Christendom as a unified political entity was destroyed. Many kings and rulers used this radical shift in the understanding of the world to further consolidate their sovereignty over their territories. For instance, many of the Germanic states (as well as English Reformation) converted to Protestantism in an attempt to slip out of the grasp of the Pope.\n\nThe intellectual developments of the period included the creation of the economic theory of mercantilism and the publication of enduringly influential works of political and social philosophy, such as Machiavelli's \"The Prince\" (1513) and Thomas More's \"Utopia\" (1515).\n\nThe Protestant Reformation was a reform-oriented schism from the Roman Catholic Church initiated by Martin Luther and continued by John Calvin, Huldrych Zwingli, and other early Protestant Reformers. It is typically dated from 1517, lasting until the end of the Thirty Years' War (1618-1648) with the Peace of Westphalia in 1648. It was launched on 31 October 1517 by Martin Luther, who posted his 95 Theses criticizing the practice of indulgences to the door of the Castle Church in Wittenberg, Germany, commonly used to post notices to the University community. In was very widely publicized across Europe and caught fire. Luther began by criticizing the sale of indulgences, insisting that the Pope had no authority over purgatory and that the Catholic doctrine of the merits of the saints had no foundation in the gospel. The Protestant position, however, would come to incorporate doctrinal changes such as \"sola scriptura\" and \"sola fide\".\n\nThe Reformation ended in division and the establishment of new church movements. The four most important traditions to emerge directly from the Reformation were Lutheranism, the Reformed (also called Calvinist or Presbyterian) tradition, Anglicanism, and the Anabaptists. Subsequent Protestant churches generally trace their roots back to these initial four schools of the Reformation. It also led to the Catholic or Counter Reformation within the Roman Catholic Church through a variety of new spiritual movements, reforms of religious communities, the founding of seminaries, the clarification of Catholic theology as well as structural changes in the institution of the Church.\n\nThe largest Protestant groups were the Lutherans and Calvinists. Lutheran churches were founded mostly in Germany, the Baltics and Scandinavia, while the Reformed ones were founded in Switzerland, Hungary, France, the Netherlands and Scotland.\n\nThe initial movement within Germany diversified, and other reform impulses arose independently of Luther. The availability of the printing press provided the means for the rapid dissemination of religious materials in the vernacular. The core motivation behind the Reformation was theological, though many other factors played a part, including the rise of nationalism, the Western Schism that eroded faith in the Papacy, the perceived corruption of the Roman Curia, the impact of humanism, and the new learning of the Renaissance that questioned much traditional thought.\n\nThere were also reformation movements throughout continental Europe known as the Radical Reformation, which gave rise to the Anabaptist, Moravian and other Pietistic movements.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church responded with a Counter-Reformation initiated by the Council of Trent. Much work in battling Protestantism was done by the well-organised new order of the Jesuits. In general, Northern Europe, with the exception of most of Ireland, came under the influence of Protestantism. Southern Europe remained Roman Catholic, while Central Europe was a site of a fierce conflict, culminating in the Thirty Years' War, which left it devastated.\n\nThe Reformation reshaped the Church of England decisively after 1547. The separation of the Church of England (or Anglican Church) from Rome under Henry VIII, beginning in 1529 and completed in 1537, brought England alongside this broad Reformation movement; however, religious changes in the English national church proceeded more conservatively than elsewhere in Europe. Reformers in the Church of England alternated, for decades, between sympathies for ancient Catholic tradition and more Reformed principles, gradually developing, within the context of robustly Protestant doctrine, a tradition considered a middle way (\"via media\") between the Roman Catholic and Protestant traditions.\n\nThe following outcomes of the Protestant Reformation regarding human capital formation, the Protestant ethic, economic development, governance, and \"dark\" outcomes have been identified by scholars.\n\nMargaret C. Jacob argues that there has been a dramatic shift in the historiography of the Reformation. Until the 1960s, historians focused their attention largely on the great leaders and theologians of the 16th century, especially Luther, Calvin, and Zwingli. Their ideas were studied in depth. However, the rise of the new social history in the 1960s look at history from the bottom up, not from the top down. Historians began to concentrate on the values, beliefs and behavior of the people at large. She finds, \"in contemporary scholarship, the Reformation is now seen as a vast cultural upheaval, a social and popular movement, textured and rich because of its diversity.\"\n\nThe Age of Enlightenment refers to the 18th century in European philosophy, and is often thought of as part of a period which includes the Age of Reason. The term also more specifically refers to a historical intellectual movement, \"The Enlightenment\". This movement advocated rationality as a means to establish an authoritative system of aesthetics, ethics, and logic. The intellectual leaders of this movement regarded themselves as a courageous elite, and regarded their purpose as one of leading the world toward progress and out of a long period of doubtful tradition, full of irrationality, superstition, and tyranny, which they believed began during a historical period they called the \"Dark Ages\". This movement also provided a framework for the American and French Revolutions, the Latin American independence movement, and the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth Constitution of May 3, and also led to the rise of liberalism and the birth of socialism and communism. It is matched by the high baroque and classical eras in music, and the neo-classical period in the arts, and receives contemporary application in the unity of science movement which includes logical positivism.\n\nThe expression \"early modern\" is sometimes used as a substitute for the term Renaissance, and vice versa. However, \"Renaissance\" is properly used in relation to a diverse series of cultural developments; which occurred over several hundred years in many different parts of Europe—especially central and northern Italy—and span the transition from late Medieval civilization and the opening of the early modern period.\n\nThe term early modern is most often applied to Europe, and its overseas empire. However, it has also been employed in the history of the Ottoman Empire. In the historiography of Japan, the Edo period from 1590 to 1868 is also sometimes referred to as the early modern period.\n\nThe 17th century saw very little peace in Europe – major wars were fought in 95 years (every year except 1610, 1669 to 1671, and 1680 to 1682.) The wars were unusually ugly. Europe in the late 17th century, 1648 to 1700, was an age of great intellectual, scientific, artistic and cultural achievement. Historian Frederick Nussbaum says it was:\n\nThe worst came during the Thirty Years' War, 1618-1648, which had an extremely negative impact on the civilian population of Germany and surrounding areas, with massive loss of life and disruption of the economy and society.\n\nThe Reformation led to a series of religious wars that culminated in the Thirty Years' War (1618–1648), which devastated much of Germany, killing between 25% and 40% of its entire population. Roman Catholic House of Habsburg and its allies fought against the Protestant princes of Germany, supported at various times by Denmark, Sweden and France. The Habsburgs, who ruled Spain, Austria, the Crown of Bohemia, Hungary, Slovene Lands, the Spanish Netherlands and much of Germany and Italy, were staunch defenders of the Roman Catholic Church. Some historians believe that the era of the Reformation came to a close when Roman Catholic France allied itself with Protestant states against the Habsburg dynasty. For the first time since the days of Martin Luther, political and national convictions again outweighed religious convictions in Europe.\n\nTwo main tenets of the Peace of Westphalia, which ended the Thirty Years' War, were:\n\n\nThe treaty also effectively ended the Papacy's pan-European political power. Pope Innocent X declared the treaty \"null, void, invalid, iniquitous, unjust, damnable, reprobate, inane, empty of meaning and effect for all times\" in his bull \"Zelo Domus Dei\". European sovereigns, Roman Catholic and Protestant alike, ignored his verdict.\n\nScholars taking a \"realist\" perspective on wars and diplomacy have emphasized the Peace of Westphalia (1648) as a dividing line. It ended the Thirty Years War (1618-1648), where religion and ideology had been powerful motivating forces for warfare. Westphalia, in the realist view, ushered in a new international system of sovereign states of roughly equal strength, dedicated not to ideology or religion but to enhance status, and territorial gains. The Catholic Church, for example, no longer devoted its energies to the very difficult task of reclaiming dioceses lost to Protestantism, but to build large-scale missions in overseas colonial possessions that could convert the natives by the thousands Using devoted members of society such as the Jesuits. According to Scott Hamish, the realist model assumes that \"foreign policies were guided entirely by \"Realpolitik,\" by the resulting struggle for resources and, eventually, by the search for what became known as a 'balance of power.'\n\nDiplomacy before 1700 was not well developed, and chances to avoid wars were too often squandered. In England, for example, King Charles II paid little attention to diplomacy, which proved disastrous. During the Dutch war of 1665-67, England had no diplomats stationed in Denmark or Sweden. When King Charles realized he needed them as allies, he sent special missions that were uninformed about local political, military, and diplomatic situations, and were ignorant of personalities and political factionalism. Ignorance produced a series of blunders that ruined their efforts to find allies. King Louis XIV of France, by contrast, developed the most sophisticated diplomatic service, with permanent ambassadors and lesser ministers in major and minor capitals, all preparing steady streams of information and advice to Paris. Diplomacy became a career that proved highly attack attractive to rich senior aristocrats who enjoyed very high society at royal courts, especially because they carried the status of the most powerful nation in Europe. Increasingly, other nations copied the French model; French became the language of diplomacy, replacing Latin. By 1700, the British and the Dutch, with small land armies, large navies, and large treasuries, used astute diplomacy to build alliances, subsidizing as needed land powers to fight on their side, or as in the case of the Hessians, hiring regiments of soldiers from mercenary princes in small countries. The balance of power was very delicately calculated, so that winning a battle here was worth the slice of territory there, with no regard to the wishes of the inhabitants. Important peacemaking conferences at Utrecht (1713), Vienna (1738), Aix-la-Chapelle (1748) and Paris (1763) had a cheerful, cynical, game-like atmosphere in which professional diplomats cashed in victories like casino chips in exchange for territory.\n\nThe Ancien Régime (French for \"old regime\") was the political and social system of the Kingdom of France from the about 1450 until the |French Revolution that started in 1789. The Ancien Régime was ruled by the late Valois and Bourbon dynasties. Much of the medieval political centralization of France had been lost in the Hundred Years' War, and the Valois Dynasty's attempts at re-establishing control over the scattered political centres of the country were hindered by the Huguenot Wars (or Wars of Religion). Much of the reigns of Henry IV, Louis XIII and the early years of Louis XIV were focused on administrative centralisation. Despite, however, the notion of \"absolute monarchy\" (typified by the king's right to issue lettres de cachet) and the efforts by the kings to create a centralized state, Ancien Régime France remained a country of systemic irregularities: administrative (including taxation), legal, judicial, and ecclesiastic divisions and prerogatives frequently overlapped, while the French nobility struggled to maintain their own rights in the matters of local government and justice, and powerful internal conflicts (like the Fronde) protested against this centralization.\n\nThe need for centralization in this period was directly linked to the question of royal finances and the ability to wage war. The internal conflicts and dynastic crises of the 16th and 17th centuries (the Huguenot Wars between Catholics and Protestants and the Habsburg's internal family conflict) and the territorial expansion of France in the 17th century demanded great sums which needed to be raised through taxes, such as the land tax (') and the tax on salt (') and by contributions of men and service from the nobility. Tne key to this centralization was the replacing of personal patronage systems organized around the king and other nobles by institutional systems around the state. The creation of intendants—representatives of royal power in the provinces—did much to undermine local control by regional nobles. The same was true of the greater reliance shown by the royal court on the \"noblesse de robe\" as judges and royal counselors. The creation of regional parlements had initially the same goal of facilitating the introduction of royal power into newly assimilated territories, but as the parlements gained in self-assurance, they began to be sources of disunity.\n\nThis period refers to England 1558–1603. The Elizabethan Era is the period associated with the reign of Queen Elizabeth I (1558–1603) and was a golden age in English cultural history. It was the height of the English Renaissance, and saw the flowering of English literature and poetry. This was also the time during which Elizabethan theatre grew. William Shakespeare, among others, composed highly innovative and powerful plays. It was an age of expansion and exploration abroad. At home the Protestant Reformation was established and successfully defended against the Catholic powers of Spain and France.\n\nThe \"Jacobean era\" was the reign James I of England (1603–1625). Overseas exploration and establishment of trading factories sped up, with the first permanent settlements in North America at Jamestown, Virginia in 1607, in Newfoundland in 1610, and at Plymouth Colony in Massachusetts in 1620. One king now ruled England and Scotland; the latter was fully absorbed by the Acts of Union 1707.\n\nThe tumultuous Caroline era was the reign of King Charles I (1625–1645), followed by his beheading by Oliver Cromwell's regime in 1649 . The Caroline era was dominated by the growing religious, political, and social conflict between the King and his supporters, termed the Royalist party, and the Puritan opposition that evolved in response to particular aspects of Charles' rule. The colonization of North America continued apace, with new colonies in Maryland (1634), Connecticut (1635), and Rhode Island (1636).\n\n\nMuch like the rest of Europe in the early modern period Spain followed clearly differentiated gender roles. These roles came from many places, such as biblical references, church practices, and in the case of women, manuals such as Fray Luis de León's \"La Perfecta Casada.\"\n\nUnder the rule of Elizabeth, gender dynamics were altered. The masculine tournaments of Henry VIII's rule were \"transformed into a vehicle for spectacular display and expanded the masque-like elements.\" It was generally regarded as a show rather than an actual military practice as they were viewed under Henry.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52802620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52802620", "title": "Elisabeth Crouzet-Pavan", "text": "Elisabeth Crouzet-Pavan\n\nÉlisabeth Crouzet-Pavan or Elisabeth Crouzet-Pavan (born 1953) is a French historian and teacher. She is a Professor at the University of Paris-Sorbonne. She is known for her knowledge of Venice in the late Middle Ages.\n\nCrouzet-Pavan was born in Paris in 1953. She worked first teaching history and geography to secondary school age children. She took her doctorate in 1989 based on the history of Venice. She is known for her interest in the history of Italy and particularly her knowledge of Venice in the late Middle Ages.\n\nShe is married to another historian Professor Denis Crouzet. She is a Professor at the University of Paris-Sorbonne.\n\nShe won the Prix Guizot in 2002. In 2005, one of her books, \"Venice Triumphant: The Horizons of a Myth\", was published in English - thanks to a translation by Lydia Cochrane.\n\n\nCrouzet-Pavan became a knight of the Legion of Honour in 2008. In 2012, she received an honorary doctorate from the University of Ghent. In May 2015 she became an Officer of the National Order of Merit .\n"}
{"id": "16708362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16708362", "title": "Fornvännen", "text": "Fornvännen\n\nFornvännen (\"Friend of the Past\") is a Swedish academic journal in the fields of archaeology and Medieval art. It is published quarterly by the Royal Swedish Academy of Letters, History and Antiquities in Stockholm, Sweden. The journal's contributions are written in the Scandinavian languages, English, or German with summaries in English. \"Fornvännen\" has the alternate title \"Journal of Swedish Antiquarian Research\". The editor-in-chief is Lars Larsson.\n\n\"Fornvännen\" began publication in 1906 when it replaced two earlier journals, \"Svenska Fornminnesföreningens Tidskrift\" and \"Vitterhetsakademiens Månadsblad\". Early contributors included noted archaeologists Oscar Montelius and Hans Hildebrand. Since 2000 it has an online version, since 2007 its first 100 annual volumes have been available on-line, and since 2009 \"Fornvännen\" is published as a delayed open-access journal with the online version of each issue appearing six months after the paper version.\n\n\"Fornvännen\" is an ERIH category B journal a category now known as INT2. According to Ulrich's Periodicals Directory, it is indexed in \"Anthropological Index Online\", \"Anthropological Literature\", \" British & Irish Archaeological Bibliography (Online Edition)\",\" Nordic Archaeological Abstracts\", and \"FRANCIS\". It was previously also indexed in \"Internationale Bibliographie der Rezensionen Geistes- und Sozialwissenschaftlicher Literatur\" and \"Linguistic Bibliography\".\n\n"}
{"id": "52876818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52876818", "title": "George Basalla", "text": "George Basalla\n\nGeorge Basalla is an American historian and professor emeritus at the University of Delaware.\n\nHe was born in 1928, and raised in Altoona, Pennsylvania.\n\nHe has developed a three-stage model which describes the spread of modern science in non-European nations.\nHe has frequently collaborated with Owen Hannaway, a famous British historian.\n\nSome of his books are:\n\n"}
{"id": "43002988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43002988", "title": "Howard Llewellyn Swisher", "text": "Howard Llewellyn Swisher\n\nHoward Llewellyn Swisher (September 21, 1870 – August 27, 1945) was an American businessperson, real estate developer, orchardist, editor, writer, and historian. As a prominent businessman, he established several companies responsible for the development of businesses and real estate in Morgantown, West Virginia.\n\nSwisher was born in 1870 near Levels, West Virginia. He became a schoolteacher there at the age of 18, then graduated from Fairmont State Normal School (present-day Fairmont State University) and West Virginia University. He then remained in Morgantown, where he established a bookstore and stationery shop. Following the success of his bookstore, Swisher organized the Main Street Building Company, the Howard L. Swisher Company, and the Morgantown Building Association, each of which constructed a large number of residences in the city. He was also the inaugural secretary-treasurer of the West Virginia Real Estate Dealers' Association.\n\nSwisher was secretary of the Royalty Oil Company, which owned mining rights for approximately of prospective oil lands throughout the United States. In addition, he also held prominent leadership and management roles in the Valley Wood Working Company, the Monongahela Valley Posting and Distributing Plant, the Federal Savings and Trust Company, and the West Virginia Tri-Products Company. In Hampshire County, Swisher maintained fruit growing interests and served as the president of the South Branch Merchandising Company. He was an active member of the West Virginia Democratic Party and was selected as a delegate from West Virginia to the 1936 Democratic National Convention.\n\nIn 1897, Swisher co-authored \"History of Hampshire County, West Virginia: From Its Earliest Settlement to the Present\" with West Virginia historian Hu Maxwell. The book was the first comprehensive history of Hampshire County ever compiled. He composed a collection of poetry and short stories, \"Briar Blossoms\", in 1899, and was the editor of \"The Ghourki\", a literary journal of poetry, short stories, and aphorisms. In 1908, Swisher published \"Book of Harangues\", a selection of passages from \"The Ghourki\".\n\nHoward Llewellyn Swisher was born on September 21, 1870 near the unincorporated community of Levels, West Virginia. He was the son of David Warner Swisher and his wife, Mary Katherine Bonnifield Swisher. David was born in Augusta County, Virginia on April 29, 1822, and was of Swiss German and French ancestry. David moved to Preston County in present-day West Virginia in 1838, and a few years later, he purchased land near present-day Levels in Hampshire County and relocated there. He then established a farm on this land, known as \"The Levels,\" and remained there for the remainder of his life. The Swisher family owned and operated one of the largest orchard operations in the Levels community. In 1846, David married his wife, Mary Katherine Bonnifield, the daughter of Dr. Arnold Bonnifield of St. George, West Virginia.\n\nSwisher spent his early years and adolescence on his father's farm, until he became a schoolteacher in Hampshire County at the age of 18. He began his post-secondary education at Fairmont State Normal School (present-day Fairmont State University) in Fairmont, which he graduated from in 1892. While enrolled there, Swisher became affiliated with the Mu Mu Chapter of the Sigma Chi fraternity. Following his graduation, he traveled throughout the northwestern United States and the Canadian provinces and territories of Alberta, Assiniboia, British Columbia, and Manitoba. Swisher then moved to Fresno, California, where he worked as a public schoolteacher for two years. He then returned to West Virginia and attended West Virginia University in Morgantown. While at the university, he aspired to become a journalist and edited \"The Athenaeum\", the institution's official student newspaper. In 1897, after three years of studies, Swisher graduated from the university with a Bachelor of Arts degree.\n\nAs a prominent businessman, Swisher established several corporations and companies responsible for the development of businesses and commercial and residential real estate in Morgantown. He remained in Morgantown after his graduation from West Virginia University, and in 1897 with $700 in capital, he opened a book and stationery store known as the Acme Book Store. The business prospered, and in April 1898, Swisher established the Acme Publishing Company, which he served as president of for several years.\n\nSwisher subsequently organized the Main Street Building Company, which became responsible for building the Strand Building, a business and commercial block in Morgantown. He established and incorporated the Howard L. Swisher Company in November 1914. He also organized the Morgantown Building Association in November 1918 with an authorized capital of $250,000 and himself serving as its general manager. The Morgantown Building Association undertook extensive construction of residences in the city. In December 1914, following its organization in Parkersburg, Swisher was named the secretary-treasurer of the West Virginia Real Estate Dealers' Association. The association was formed in cooperation with the West Virginia Department of Agriculture and other state agencies for the promotion and development of the states's agricultural resources, real estate, and investments.\n\nIn addition to his real estate and construction ventures, Swisher was an organizer and secretary of the Royalty Oil Company, which owned mining rights to approximately of prospective oil lands throughout the southern and southwestern United States. He built and operated the Swisher Theater in Morgantown. Swisher was also a director of the Valley Wood Working Company, the owner of the Monongahela Valley Posting and Distributing Plant, and the secretary of the Federal Savings and Trust Company prior to 1903. By 1913, he was the president of the West Virginia Tri-Products Company, which invested in coal and oil production, glass manufacturing, and the production of timber and fruit. Swisher maintained fruit growing interests on South Branch Mountain (known as Jersey Mountain) in Hampshire County, and served as the president of the South Branch Merchandising Company.\n\nDuring his travels, Swisher contributed articles and poetry to newspapers throughout the Northwest. While attending West Virginia University, he published a small book containing approximately 600 lines of poetry, which he dedicated to his classmates. In 1897, Swisher co-authored \"History of Hampshire County, West Virginia: From Its Earliest Settlement to the Present\" with West Virginia historian Hu Maxwell. The book was the first comprehensive history of Hampshire County ever compiled. He composed a collection of poetry and short stories titled \"Briar Blossoms\", which was published by his Acme Publishing Company in 1899. Swisher was the editor of \"The Ghourki\", a literary journal of poetry, short stories, and aphorisms. He began each issue with an introductory commentary entitled \"Harangues to the Ghourki\" in which he referred to himself as the \"Chief of the Tribe\". In 1908, Swisher published \"Book of Harangues\", a selection of passages from \"The Ghourki\".\n\nSwisher was an active member of the West Virginia Democratic Party. In 1900, he was selected as a candidate for State Superintendent of Free Schools. In the 1902 general election, he ran as the Democratic candidate for the Eleventh District of the West Virginia State Senate. Despite his loss, Swisher received the largest number of Democratic votes ever amassed in Monongalia County up until that time. Swisher was a delegate at the 1936 Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, and was selected as an alternate delegate to the Democratic National Conventions of 1912 and 1924.\n\nIn August 1897, Swisher married Mary Dering of Morgantown, daughter of Edward A. Dering and his wife, Cordelia Walker Dering of Morgantown. Both the Dering and Walker families, from which Swisher's wife descended, had arrived in the Colony of Virginia during its earlier periods of settlement.\n\nSwisher was a member of the Morgantown Union Lodge No. 4 of the Free and Accepted Masons, Morgantown Lodge No. 411 of the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks, the Morgantown Chamber of Commerce, the Kiwanis Club, the Country Club, and the Old Colony Club. Swisher served on the Old Colony Club's National Advisory Council.\n\nOn August 27, 1945, Swisher died of a cerebral hemorrhage due to hypertension at his residence at 80 Donley Street in Morgantown. Swisher was interred on August 30, 1945 at Oak Grove Cemetery in Morgantown's Chancery Hill Historic District.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "215076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215076", "title": "Iași", "text": "Iași\n\nIași (, ; ; also referred to as Jassy or Iassy) is the second largest city in Romania, and the seat of Iași County. Located in the historical region of Moldavia, Iași has traditionally been one of the leading centres of Romanian social, cultural, academic and artistic life. The city was the capital of the Principality of Moldavia from 1564 to 1859, then of the United Principalities from 1859 to 1862, and the capital of Romania from 1916 to 1918.\n\nKnown as \"The Cultural Capital of Romania\", Iași is a symbol in Romanian history. The historian Nicolae Iorga said \"There should be no Romanian who does not know of it\". Still referred to as \"The Moldavian Capital\", Iași is the main economic and business centre of the Moldavian region of Romania.\n\nAt the 2011 census, the city proper had a population of 290,422 (making it the fourth most populous in Romania at the time). With 474,035 residents (), the Iași urban area is the second most populous in Romania (after Bucharest), whereas more than 500,000 people live within its peri-urban area. \n\nHome to the oldest Romanian university and to the first engineering school, Iași is one of the most important education and research centres of the country, and accommodates over 60,000 students in 5 public universities. The social and cultural life revolves around the Vasile Alecsandri National Theater (the oldest in Romania), the Moldova State Philharmonic, the Opera House, the Iași Athenaeum, a famous Botanical Garden (the oldest and largest in Romania), the Central University Library (the oldest in Romania), the high quality cultural centres and festivals, an array of museums, memorial houses, religious and historical monuments. The city is also known as the site of the largest Romanian pilgrimage which takes place each year, in October.\n\nThe city is historically referred to as:\nScholars have different theories on the origin of the name \"Iași\". Some argue that the name originates with the Sarmatian tribe Iazyges (of Iranian origin), one mentioned by Ovid as .\n\nA now lost inscription on a Roman milestone found near Osijek, Croatia by Matija Petar Katančić in the 18th century, mentions the existence of a Jassiorum municipium, or \"Municipium Dacorum-Iassiorum\" from other sources.\n\nOther explanations show that the name originated from the Iranian Alanic tribe of Jassi, having same origin with Yazyges tribes Jassic people. The Prut river was known as \"Alanus fluvius\" and the city as \"Forum Philistinorum\". From this population derived the plural of town name, \"Iașii\".\n\nAnother historian wrote that the Iasians lived among the Cumans and that they left the Caucasus after the first Mongolian campaign in the West, settling temporarily near the Prut. He asserts that the ethnic name of Jasz which is given to Iasians by Hungarians has been erroneously identified with the Jazyges; also he shows that the word jasz is a Slavic loan word. The Hungarian name of the city (\"Jászvásár\") literally means \"Jassic Market\"; the antiquated Romanian name, \"Târgul Ieșilor\" (and the once-favoured \"Iașii\"), and the German \"Jassenmarkt\", may indicate the same meaning.\n\nArchaeological investigations attest to the presence of human communities on the present territory of the city and around it as far back as the prehistoric age. Later settlements included those of the Cucuteni-Trypillian culture, a late Neolithic archaeological culture.\n\nThere is archaeological evidence of human settlements in the area of Iași dating from the 6th to 7th centuries (Curtea Domnească) and 7th to 10th centuries; these settlements contained rectangular houses with semicircular ovens. Also, many of the vessels (9th–11th centuries) found in Iași had a cross, potentially indicating that the inhabitants were Christians.\n\nThe name of the city is first found in a document from 1408. This is a grant of certain commercial privileges by the Moldavian Prince Alexander to the Polish merchants of Lvov. However, as buildings older than 1408 still exist, e.g. the Armenian Church believed to be originally built in 1395, it is certain that the city existed before its first surviving written mention.\n\nAround 1564, Prince Alexandru Lăpușneanu moved the Moldavian capital from Suceava to Iași. Between 1561 and 1563, a school and a Lutheran church were founded by the Greek adventurer Prince, Ioan Iacob Heraclid.\n\nIn 1640, Vasile Lupu established the first school in which the Romanian language replaced Greek, and set up a printing press in the Byzantine Trei Ierarhi Monastery (\"Monastery of the Three Hierarchs\"; built 1635–39). Between 15 September - 27 October 1642, the city hosted the Synod of Jassy (also referred to as the Council of Jassy). In 1643, the first volume ever printed in Moldavia was published in Iași.\n\nThe city was burned down by the Tatars in 1513, by the Ottomans in 1538, and by Imperial Russian troops in 1686. In 1734, it was hit by the plague.\n\nIt was through the Peace of Iași that the sixth Russo-Turkish War was brought to a close in 1792. A Greek revolutionary manoeuvre and occupation under Alexander Ypsilanti (Αλέξανδρος Υψηλάντης) and the Filiki Eteria (Φιλική Εταιρία) (1821, at the beginning of the Greek War of Independence) led to the storming of the city by the Turks in 1822. In 1844 a severe fire affected much of the city.\n\nBetween 1564 and 1859, the city was the capital of Moldavia; then, between 1859 and 1862, both Iași and Bucharest were de facto capitals of the United Principalities of Moldavia and Wallachia. In 1862, when the union of the two principalities was recognised under the name of \"Romania\", the national capital was established in Bucharest. For the loss caused to the city in 1861 by the removal of the seat of government to Bucharest the constituent assembly voted 148,150 lei to be paid in ten annual instalments, but no payment was ever made.\n\nDuring World War I, Iași was the capital of a much reduced Romania for two years, following the Central Powers' occupation of Bucharest on 6 December 1916. The capital was returned to Bucharest after the defeat of Imperial Germany and its allies in November 1918. In November–December 1918 Iași hosted the Jassy Conference.\n\nIași also figures prominently in Jewish history, with the first documented presence of Sephardi Jews from the late 16th century. The oldest tomb inscription in the local cemetery probably dates to 1610. By the mid-19th century, owing to widespread Russian Jewish and Galician Jewish immigration into Moldavia, the city was at least one-third Jewish.\nIn 1855, Iași was the home of the first-ever Yiddish-language newspaper, \"Korot Haitim\", and, in 1876, the site of what was arguably the first-ever professional Yiddish theatre performance, established by Avraham Goldfaden. The words of HaTikvah, the national anthem of Israel, were written in Iași by Naftali Herz Imber. Jewish musicians in Iași played an important role as preservers of Yiddish folklore, as performers and composers.\n\nAccording to the 1930 census, with a population of 34,662 (some 34% of the city's population), Jews were the second largest ethnic group in Iași. There were over 127 synagogues. \nAfter World War II, in 1947, there were about 38,000 Jews living in Iași. Because of massive emigration to Israel, in 1975 there were about 3,000 Jews living in Iași and four synagogues were active.\n\nCurrently, Iași has a dwindling Jewish population of ca. 300 to 600 members and two working synagogues, one of which, the 1671 Great Synagogue, is the oldest surviving synagogue in Romania.\n\nDuring the war, while the full scale of the Holocaust remained generally unknown to the Allied Powers, the Iași pogrom stood as one of the known examples of Axis brutality toward the Jews.\n\nThe pogrom lasted from 29 June to 6 July 1941, and over 13,266 people, or one third of the Jewish population, were massacred in the pogrom itself or in its aftermath, and many were deported.\nIn May 1944, the Iași area became the scene of ferocious fighting between Romanian-German forces and the advancing Soviet Red Army and the city was partially destroyed. The German Panzergrenadier Division \"Großdeutschland\" won a defensive victory at the Battle of Târgu Frumos, near Iași, which was the object of several NATO studies during the Cold War. By 20 August, Iași had been taken by Soviet forces.\n\nIași experienced a major wave of industrialisation, in 1955–1975. During this period of time, it received numerous migrants from rural regions, and the urban area expanded. The socialist period saw a growth of 235% in population and 69% in area in Iași; however, the urban planning was sometimes arbitrary and followed by dysfunctions.\n\nBy 1989, Iași had become highly industrialised, with 108,000 employees (representing 47% of the total workforce) active in 46 large state-owned enterprises, in various industries: chemical, pharmaceutical, metallurgical, heavy equipment, electronics, textile, food, energy, building materials, furniture. \n\nLocated in the North-East of Romania, at the contact between the Jijia Plain and the Bârlad Plateau, Iași used to be the crossroads place of the historic trade routes that passed through Moldavia coming from the Kingdom of Poland, Habsburg Monarchy, Tsardom of Russia, and Constantinople. \n\nThe city lies on the Bahlui River valley, a tributary of the Jijia River (tributary of the Prut River). The surrounding country is one of uplands and woods, featuring monasteries and parks. Iași itself stands amid vineyards and gardens, partly on hills, partly in the in-between valley.\n\nThe central part of the city is located on the fluvial terrace of the Bahlui River (the so called Palat Terrace). From this nucleus, the city evolved after the medieval times toward south and north on the Bahlui River floodplain and on the adjacent hills. The southern part of the city lies on the Iași Ridge () (the northern-most hill of the Bârlad Plateau). Considering the present day extension of the administrative boundaries, the city territory has an altitudinal extension of , between the 34.5 m a.s.l. (113.19 ft) in the Bahlui River floodplain, at the Holboca bridge, and 354.77 m a.s.l. (1,163.94 ft), at the edge of the Repedea Hill. \n\nIt is a common belief that Iași is built on seven hills (): Breazu, Bucium, Cetățuia, Copou, Galata, Repedea and Șorogari, thus triggering comparisons with Rome.\n\nIași has a humid, continental-type climate (Köppen climate classification \"Dfb\" — summer wetter than winter, European subtype) with four distinct seasons. Summers are warm with temperatures sometimes exceeding while winters are cold and windy with moderate snowfall and temperatures at night sometimes dropping below . Average monthly precipitation ranges from about in October to in June.\n\nIași features historical monuments, 500-year-old churches and monasteries, contemporary architecture, many of them listed on the National Register of Historic Monuments. Notable architecture includes the Trei Ierarhi Monastery, part of the tentative list of UNESCO World Heritage Site, or the neo-Gothic Palace of Culture, built on the old ruins of the mediaeval Princely Court of Moldavia.\n\nDuring World War II and the Communist era many historical buildings in the old city centre (around Union Square area) were destroyed or demolished, and replaced by International style buildings and also a new mainly Mid-Century modern style Civic Centre was built around the Old Market Square (The Central Hall).\n\nThe mid-1990s to early-2000s brought the first non-industrial glass curtain walled buildings (Romtelecom, Hotel Europa), while in 2012, in close proximity to the Palace of Culture, the Palas shopping mall and office complex was inaugurated.\n\nOther significant buildings include:\n\nIași is the seat of the Romanian Orthodox Metropolitan of Moldavia and Bukovina, and of the Roman Catholic Bishop of Iași. The city and the surrounding area house more than 10 monasteries and 100 historical churches. Among the oldest is Princely Saint Nicholas (1491), dating from the reign of Stephen the Great, and the Metropolitan Cathedral is the largest of its kind in Romania. The Trei Ierarhi Monastery, a unique monument, considered to be an architectural masterpiece, was erected in 1635–1639 by Vasile Lupu, and adorned with gilded carvings on its outer walls and twin towers.\n\nOther examples of historic churches and monasteries (some of them surrounded by defence walls and towers) include: Socola (1562), Galata (1582), Saint Sava (1583), Hlincea (1587), Aroneanu (1594), Bârnova (1603), Barnovschi (1627), Golia (1650), Cetățuia (1668), Frumoasa (1726), Saint Spiridon (1747), Old Metropolitan Cathedral (1761), Bărboi (1843 with 18th-century bell tower), Bucium (1853).\n\nThe city has become a major Christian pilgrimage site since the early modern period. In 1641, the relics of Saint Parascheva were brought to Iași. Each year, around 14 October, hundreds of thousands of pilgrims gather to commemorate Saint Parascheva, while the city itself established its Celebration Days at the same time. The October pilgrimage is one of the largest in Europe, drawing people all over Romania as well as from neighboring Orthodox countries.\n\nDuring the entire year, pilgrimages to Iași can also involve visits to a large number of religious sites, both within and around the city.\n\nIași has a diverse array of public spaces, from city squares to public parks.\n\nBegun in 1833, at the time when Iași was the capital of Moldavia, by Prince Mihail Sturdza and under the plans of Gheorghe Asachi and Mihail Singurov, Copou Park was integrated into the city and marks one of the first Romanian coordinated public parks. The oldest monument in Romania stands in the middle of the park, the Obelisk of Lions (1834), a tall obelisk, dedicated to the \"Regulamentul Organic\", the first law on political, administrative and juridical organisation in Romanian Principalities.\n\nFounded in 1856, the Botanical Garden of Iași, the first botanical garden in Romania, has an area of over 100 hectares, and more than 10,000 species of plants.\n\nIași Exhibition Park was opened in 1923 and built under the co-ordination of the architect N. Ghica Budești.\n\nThe Ciric Park, located in the north-eastern part of Iași, consists of parkland and four lakes.\n\nEminescu's Linden Tree () is a 500-year-old silver lime (\"Tilia tomentosa Moench\") situated in Copou Park. Mihai Eminescu reportedly wrote some of his best works underneath this lime, rendering the tree one of Romania's most important natural monuments and a notable Iași landmark. The Odd Poplers Alley, in Bucium neighbourhood, is another spot where Mihai Eminescu sought inspiration (the poem \"Down Where the Lonely Poplars Grow\"). In 1973, the 15 white poplars still left (with the age ranges between 233 and 371 years) were declared natural monuments.\n\nIași County has 387 centuries-old trees, of which 224 were declared monument trees and 160 got the Romanian Academy's approval and are proposed for such a classification. Most of them are oak or linden trees. The oldest tree in the county is the 675-year-old hybrid lime tree located in the courtyard of Bârnova Monastery, in the vicinity of Iași. When the lime was about 57 years old and about in diameter, Iași was mentioned as an urban settlement, during the reign of Prince Alexander the Good (1408).\n\n, Iași is the country's second most populous city after Bucharest with 362,142 residents registered within the city limits, and with a population of 465,477 residents, the Iași urban area is also the second largest in Romania.\n\nAt the 2011 census, Iași was the fourth most populous Romanian city with a population of 290,422. The metropolitan area association (which includes Iași and 13 other nearby communities) had a population of 382,484, while Iași County, with its 772,348 inhabitants, was the most populous county in Romania (after the Municipality of Bucharest). Additionally there were 60,000 more residents (mostly students) and thousands of daily commuters.\n\nAccording to the 2002 census, in Iași there were 109,357 housing units and 320,888 people living within the city proper. Of this population, 98.5% were ethnic Romanians, while 0.59% were ethnic Romani, 0.13% Jews, 0.13% Greeks, 0.13% Lipovans, 0.08% Hungarians, 0.05% Germans and 0.39% others. In terms of religion, 92.5% of the population were Christian Orthodox, 4.9% Roman Catholic, other religious groups 2.6%. There are currently almost 10,000 Roman Catholics living in Iași. There is a debate between historians as to whether the Catholics are originally of Romanian or Hungarian descent.\n\nIași is an important economic centre in Romania. The local and regional economy relies on industry and service sector institutions and establishments. The most important service sectors are related to education, health care, banking, research, culture, government and tourism.\n\nThe city is an important information technology sector centre, with the presence of several large multinational companies (Amazon, Oracle, Continental, Xerox, Accenture, Capgemini) and many other local and foreign companies such as Bentley Systems, Bitdefender, Comodo, Endava, Ness, Pentalog, SCC or TiVo (to name a few), as well as two universities which offer specific degree programs. Industry forecasts expect the Iași ITC workforce to grow from the current 16,000 (end of 2016) employees to more than 33,000, by 2030.\n\nAn estimated workforce of more than 35,000 employees is active in Iași's industrial manufacturing sector, particularly in automotive (Delphi, Lear, Tess Conex), pharmaceutical industry (Antibiotice Iași, Fiterman Pharma, Ircon SRL), metallurgical production (ArcelorMittal, Technosteel LBR), aerospace (BMT Aerospace), industrial equipment (Agmus, ASAM, Fortus), energy (E.ON Moldova Distribuție, Veolia Energie), textiles and clothing (Benetton, Iași Conf, Iașitex), home appliances (Tehnoton), building materials (Brikston, Build Corp), food (Compan, Panifcom, Zeelandia).\n\nLocated in an area recognised for its vineyards and wines, Iași is part of a traditional wine region with viticultural centres surrounding the city: Copou, Bucium, Uricani, Comarna, Plugari, and Probota. Iași County is also home to renowned Cotnari and Bohotin vineyards.\n\nWith large shopping malls and commercial centres located in the area, Iași also has a well-developed retail business.\n\nSources:\n\nMajor events in the political and cultural history of Moldavia are connected with the name of the city of Iași. The great scholars of the 17th century, Grigore Ureche, Miron Costin and later Ion Neculce, wrote most of their works in the city or not far from it and the famous scholar Dimitrie Cantemir known throughout all Europe also linked his name to the capital of Moldavia.\n\nThe first newspaper in Romanian language was published in 1829 in Iași and it is in Iași where, in 1867, appeared under literary society Junimea, the Convorbiri Literare review in which Ion Creangă’s Childhood Memories and the best poems by Mihai Eminescu were published. The reviews Contemporanul and Viața Românească appeared in 1871, respectively in 1906 with great contributions to promoting Romanian national cultural values.\n\nMany great personalities of Romanian culture are connected to Iași: the chronicler Nicolae Milescu, the historians and politicians Mihail Kogălniceanu and Simion Bărnuțiu, the poets Vasile Alecsandri and George Topârceanu, the writers Mihail Sadoveanu, Alecu Russo, and Ionel Teodoreanu, the literary critic Titu Maiorescu, the historian A.D. Xenopol, the philosophers Vasile Conta and Petre Andrei, the sociologist Dimitrie Gusti, the geographer Emil Racoviță and the painter Octav Băncilă, only to name a few.\n\nThe Vasile Alecsandri National Theatre, opened in 1840, is the first National Theatre in Romania. The building, designed according to the plans of the Viennese architects Hermann Helmer and Ferdinand Fellner, was raised between 1894 and 1896, and also hosts, starting 1956, the Iași Romanian National Opera.\n\nIași is also home to:\n\nIași is home to many museums, memorial houses, art galleries. \nFirst memorial museum from Romania opened in Iași in 1918, as the Ion Creangă Memorial House, and today the Iași Romanian Literature Museum owns fourteen memorial houses. The Mihai Eminescu Museum, situated in Copou Park, is dedicated to the great poet’s life and creation; other museums are dedicated to: Dosoftei, Mihail Kogălniceanu, Vasile Pogor, Nicolae Gane, Petru Poni, Mihai Codreanu, Mihail Sadoveanu, George Topîrceanu, Otilia Cazimir, Radu Cernătescu, Cezar Petrescu, Dimitrie Anghel.\n\nThe Theatre Museum, opened in 1976, at the celebration of 160 years since the first theatrical performance in Romanian, illustrates the development of the theatrical phenomenon since the beginning, important moments of the history of Iași National Theatre, the foundation, in 1840, of the Philharmonic-dramatic Conservatoire, prestigious figures that have contributed to the development of the Romanian theatre.\n\nThe Union Museum, includes original pieces and documents which belonged to prince Al. I. Cuza and his family.\n\nThe Natural History Museum, founded on 4 February 1834, is the first museum of this kind in Romania with over 300,000 items, the most valuable being the collections of insects, mollusc, amphibians, reptiles, birds, plants and minerals.\n\nFour other museums are located in the Palace of Culture: with its roots dating back to 1860, the \"Iași Art Museum\" is the oldest of its kind in Romania, and, with more than 8,700 works (many of them belonging to the universal patrimony), has the largest art collection in the country; the \"Moldavia's History Museum\", offers more than 48,000 objects from various fields, archaeology, numismatics, decorative art, ancient books, documents; the \"Ethnographic Museum of Moldavia\" owns more than 13,000 objects depicting the Romanian advance through the ages; the \"Science and Technology Museum's\" collection has more than 11,200 objects in five distinct sections and one memorial house.\n\nIași hosts six cultural centres: French, German, British, Latin American & Caribbean, Hellenic, and Arab.\n\n\nLive music and different other artistic events (poetry nights, readings) are a habitual occurrence in the various bars and coffee shops the city has to offer.\n\nThe first institute of higher learning that functioned on the territory of Romania was Academia Vasiliană (1640) founded by Prince Vasile Lupu as a \"higher school for Latin and Slavonic languages\", followed by the Princely Academy in 1707.\n\nThe first high education structure in Romanian language was established in the autumn of 1813, when engineer Gheorghe Asachi laid the foundations of a class of engineers, its activities taking place within the Greek Princely Academy.\n\nAfter 1813, other moments marked the development of higher education in Romanian language, regarding both humanities and the technical science. In 1835, Academia Mihăileană founded by Prince Mihail Sturdza is considered first Romanian superior institute in the country.\n\nIn 1860, three faculties part of the Academia Mihăileană formed the nucleus for the newly established University of Iași, the first Romanian university.\n\nThe Physicians and Naturalists Society, founded in Iași, has existed since the early part of the 19th century, and a number of periodicals are published. One of the oldest medical universities in Romania, founded in 1879, is located in Iași. It is now known as the Grigore T. Popa University of Medicine and Pharmacy.\n\nIn 1937, the two applied science sections of the University of Iași became departments of the newly created Gheorghe Asachi Polytechnic School. In the period before and after World War II, the later (renamed \"Polytechnic Institute\" in 1948) extended its domain of activity, especially in the field of engineering, and became known as Gheorghe Asachi Technical University in 1993.\n\nPublic universities include:\n\n\nThere are also some private higher education institutions including Petre Andrei University, the largest private university in the historical region of Moldavia.\n\nThe Central University Library of Iași, where the chief records of Romanian history are preserved, is the oldest and the second largest in Romania.\n\n, Iași has 74 public schools, coordinated by the Iași County School Inspectorate. The city is also home to 19 private schools.\n\nNotable high schools:\n\nIași Science Festival is a week long festival organised every year in April (starting 2013) for high school and grade school students to get be able to observe and take part in scientific experiments and be given detailed tours of the scientific and technical universities and research labs in Iași. Over 200 experiments were performed and over 10,000 students took part in the 2014 edition, from throughout the Moldavia region.\n\nIn 2012, Iași was selected as one of the European Cities of Sport.\n\n\nIași's public transportation system is served by the CTP Iași which operates an extensive network using 123 trams (electric trams began operating in Iași in 1900) and 150 buses. In 2014, the CTP (former RATP) carried 50,358,000 passengers, an average of 140,000 passengers per day.\n\nIași is served by the Iași International Airport (IAS) located east of the city centre. The airport is the 4th busiest in Romania and offers direct domestic, European, and Middle Eastern scheduled or charter connections. After extensive modernisation works, the number of connections and traffic volumes have seen a significant increase, in 2015.\n\nIași-Pașcani railway was opened on , Iași-Ungheni on 1 August 1874 and Iași-Chișinău railway was opened on 1 June 1875 by the Russian Empire in preparation for the Russo-Turkish War (1877–1878).\n\nNowadays, three railway stations, Great Railway Station, Nicolina International Rail Station and Socola Rail Station serve the city and are operated by Romanian Railways (CFR). Moldovan railway also serves these stations for travel into Moldova.\n\nThe Great Railway Station, located about from the city centre, provides direct rail connections to all the major Romanian cities and to Chișinău. The rail stations are very well connected to all the parts of the city by the trams and buses of the local public transport companies.\n\nIași is connected by European routes E583/E85 with Bucharest through a four lane road, by European route E58 with Central Europe and Chișinău in Moldova, and by DN National Roads with all major cities of Romania. A planned East–West freeway would connect the city to the A3 Transylvania Motorway.\n\nThe Iași Coach Station is used by several private transport companies to provide coach connections from Iași to a large number of locations from all over the country.\n\nIași is home to at least 15 hospitals, including the St. Spiridon Hospital, the second largest and one of the oldest in Romania (1755), St. Maria Clinic Children's Hospital, Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, Regional Oncology Institute, and Socola Psychiatric Institute (1905 – first psychiatric hospital in Romania).\n\nIași has the second-worse air quality in Romania, after Bucharest. In 2014, the European Commission started environmental law infringement procedures against Romania, citing Bucharest, Iași, and Brașov cases as examples. In 2015, atmospheric particulate matter has repeatedly reached and exceeded legal thresholds for PM. Pollution from vehicular traffic, construction works, and a lack of green spaces (the city only has about of public green spaces per capita) make up some of the reasons behind these problems.\n\nIași is twinned with:\n\nHonorary Consulates:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14950599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14950599", "title": "Ibn al-Khatib", "text": "Ibn al-Khatib\n\nLisan Al-Din Ibn Al-Khatib () (Born 16 November 1313, Loja– died 1374, Fes, Morocco; full name in \"Muhammad ibn Abd Allah ibn Said ibn Ali ibn Ahmad al-Salmani\") was an Arab Andalusian polymath poet, writer, historian, philosopher, physician and politician from Emirate of Granada. Some of his poems decorate the walls of the palace of Alhambra in Granada.\n\nAl-Khatib was born at Loja, near Granada. For much of his life he was vizir at the court of the Sultan of Granada, Muhammed V. He spent two periods in exile in the Marinid empire in Morocco; (between 1360–62, and 1371–74, he resided variously at Ceuta, Tlemcen and Fes). In 1374, he was imprisoned for 'Zandaqa' (heresy) and atheism. He was sentenced to death by suffocation. Earlier and modern historians have speculated that his many private and political feuds in Granada with the Nasrid Kings of Granada, were probably the main factors in his treatment and execution. His body was burned before being buried at \"Bab Mahruq\", a city gate in Fes.\n\nHe is highly esteemed both as an historian and as a poet. Some of his poems were put to music as \"muwashshahat\".\n\nHis great historical work, \"al-Ihata fi akhbar Gharnata\" (\"The Complete Source on the History of Granada\"), written in 1369, includes his autobiography. This work has yet to be translated into English.\n\nIn his treatise about the plague (Muqni'at al-Sā'il 'an al-Maraḍ al-Hā'il), (ca.753/1362),\nIbn al-Khatib explores the idea of transmission of disease through contagion, centuries before Louis Pasteur conducted his experiments in Europe. \nThe original Arabic text is preserved in the \"Biblioteca del Real Monasterio de El Escorial\", MS Arabic 1785. Of the estimated deaths due to the outbreak of bubonic plague, known as the Black Death, that swept through al-Andalus in the 14th century, the numbers range to as high as a third of the Muslim population worldwide.\n\nIn his treatise \"On the Plague\", Ibn al-Khatib writes:\n\"The existence of contagion is established by experience [and] by trustworthy reports on transmission by garments, vessels, ear-rings; by the spread of it by persons from one house, by infection of a healthy sea-port by an arrival from an infected land [and] by the immunity of isolated individuals.\" \nWhile the plague hadith indicated that the Prophet suggested otherwise, \"a proof taken from the traditions has to undergo modification when in manifest contradiction with the evidence of the perception of the senses.\"\n\nThis may have led to his execution by strangulation for \"heresy\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6187105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6187105", "title": "Ibrahim K. Sundiata", "text": "Ibrahim K. Sundiata\n\nIbrahim K. Sundiata is an American scholar of West African and African-American history. He received his undergraduate education at Ohio Wesleyan University (B.A., 1966), and a Ph.D. (1972) at Northwestern University, where he studied under Ivor Wilks. He is currently the Samuel J. and Augusta Spector Professor of History and African and African-American Studies at Brandeis University.\n\nPreviously, Sundiata served as the chairman of the history department of Howard University, and taught at Rutgers University, Northwestern University, the University of Illinois at Chicago, and the Universidade Federal da Bahia. He has received grants from the Ford Foundation, Woodrow Wilson Center, and Fulbright Program, and was a fellow at the W.E.B. DuBois Institute at Harvard University. He is also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.\n\nSundiata's research has focused on Atlantic slavery, migration and colonialism and its legacies in Equatorial Guinea and Liberia, and, more recently, on race relations in the United States and Latin America, particularly in Brazil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57797542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57797542", "title": "Jeannine Baker", "text": "Jeannine Baker\n\nJeannine Baker is an Australian historian. She specialises in media history and is a research fellow at Macquarie University, Sydney.\n\nBaker completed a BA in Mass Communications from Macquarie University and an MA in Public History at the University of Technology, Sydney. She completed a PhD in Australian history at the University of Melbourne in 2014. Her thesis, on Australian women war reporters during World War II, was later published as \"Australian Women War Reporters: Boer War to Vietnam.\"\n\nBaker has also worked as an oral history interviewer and made historical documentaries including \"Our Drowned Town\" (SBS TV, 2001) about the flooding of the New South Wales town of Adaminaby for the Snowy Mountains Scheme and \"Holding a Tiger by the Tail: Jessie Litchfield\" (Earshot, ABC Radio National, 2015), about the Darwin newspaper editor and journalist Jessie Litchfield.\n\n"}
{"id": "13103728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13103728", "title": "Joan Druett", "text": "Joan Druett\n\nJoan Druett is a New Zealand historian and novelist, specialising in maritime history.\n\nJoan Druett was born in Nelson, and raised in Palmerston North, moving to New Zealand's capital city, Wellington, when she was 16. She gained her Bachelor of Arts in English literature from the Victoria University of Wellington, and then worked as a teacher of biology and English literature for many years before publishing her first full-length book when she was 40. She travelled extensively in her 20s – including to Canada, where she lived for a while, Britain and the Middle East.\n\nShe went to America as a Fulbright Scholar in 1986, and returned there in 1992 as historian/writer for a museum exhibit, \"The Sailing Circle: Seafaring Women of New York,\" living in Orient, Long Island, where she and her husband, Ron, a maritime artist, were artists in residence at the William Steeple Davis Trust house and studio. While Ron painted and exhibited at galleries such as Mystic Seaport Gallery, she researched and wrote historical novels and books on maritime history. In late 1996, she and Ron returned to New Zealand, and set up house in Wellington in 1997. In 2001, she was the John David Stout Fellow at the Stout Research Centre for New Zealand Studies, Victoria University, and is still an associate.\n\nShe is married to Ron Druett and has two sons, with also six amazing grandchildren.\n\n. Ron is a well-regarded maritime artist and has illustrated many of her histories.\n\nWhile her first novel wasn't published until she was 40 years old, Druett always wanted to write and had written professionally from her teen years. She wrote science fiction stories for American magazines, and stories for a Māori magazine using the pseudonym Jo Friday. She also did some freelance travel-writing.\n\nHer first book, \"Exotic Intruders\", was the result of a publisher's request for a book about the introduction to New Zealand of plants and animals by sailing ships. Since then she has written extensively in maritime history – particularly looking at wives at sea – and also historical and maritime novels.\n\nIn her later career, she has become best known for her Wiki novels, historical mysteries with a half-Maori seaman protagonist named Wiki Coffin. The Wiki character grew out of her research into real people, including descriptions of a Maori sailor in a midshipman's journal from the first half of the nineteenth century. In addition to the novels, Druett has also published several short stories featuring Wiki Coffin in \"Alfred Hitchcock's Mystery Magazine\".\n\n\n\nHistorical crime series set during the United States Exploring Expedition through the Pacific Ocean by the United States Navy 1838–1842.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14392373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14392373", "title": "John Lambert (naval historian)", "text": "John Lambert (naval historian)\n\nJohn Lambert (1937-January 11, 2016) was a naval illustrator and historian. He specialised in naval boats up to destroyer size. The information he presented and his detailed drawings of warships and their weapons systems are referenced from official naval and shipbuilder sources.\n\nHe has written over 350 magazine articles for \"Model Boats\", \"Airfix Magazine\", \"Scale Models\", \"Model Shipwright\", \"Interavia and Marine Modelling International\".\n\n\"Allied Coastal Forces of World War II\" - by John Lambert and Al Ross\n\n\"The Fairmile D Motor Torpedo Boat\" \nby John Lambert, 1985, \n\n\"The Submarine Alliance\" \nby John Lambert and David Hill, 1986, \n\n\"Flower Class Corvettes in World War II\" (Warship Perspective series)\nby John Lambert and Alan Raven, 2000\n\n"}
{"id": "14734342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14734342", "title": "Joseph Ferdinand Damberger", "text": "Joseph Ferdinand Damberger\n\nJoseph Ferdinand Damberger (1 March 1795 – 1 April 1859) was a historian of the Catholic Church.\n\nDamberger was born in Passau, Bavaria. After completing his earlier studies in the public schools of his native town, he pursued the study of law at Landshut, then studied theology at Salzburg, Landshut, and Munich, and was ordained a priest in 1818. While at the Munich Lyceum he had also devoted himself to historical studies. Until 1837 he was particularly active as a preacher at Landshut and at St. Cajetan's, Munich. His first historical works appeared in Ratisbon in 1831, three closely related narratives: \"Fürstentafel der Staatengeschichte\"; \"Fürstenbuch zur Fürstentafel der europäischen Staatengeschichte\"; \"Sechzig genealogische, chronologische und statistische Tabellen zur Fürstentafel und Fürstenbuch\".\n\nIn 1837 he joined the Society of Jesus, completed his novitiate at Brieg, canton of Valais, Switzerland, where he spent about ten years, partly as a mission-preacher and partly as professor of ecclesiastical history at Lucerne. A collection of his mission sermons was printed (Lucerne, 1842; 2nd ed., 1852), but was violently attacked (Missionsunfug der Jesuiten; Bern, 1842). The defeat of the Sonderbund (1847) brought with it the expulsion of the Jesuits from Switzerland. Damberger then spent several years in Innsbruck and Regensburg, and in 1853 became confessor at the Convent of Schäftlarn in Bavaria, where he died. He was working on \"Synchronistische Geschichte der Kirche und der Welt im Mittelalter\" (Ratisbon, 1850–63). The last volume was finished and published after his death by Father Daniel Rattinger. The narrative reaches the year 1378. In its day it was considered an important piece of work.\n\n"}
{"id": "2738366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2738366", "title": "Kanpyō (era)", "text": "Kanpyō (era)\n\n, also romanized as Kampyō was a after \"Ninna\" and before \"Shōtai.\" This period spanned the years from April 889 through April 898. The reigning emperors were and .\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52181062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52181062", "title": "Karin Bijsterveld", "text": "Karin Bijsterveld\n\nKarin Theda Bijsterveld (born 12 October 1961) is a Dutch historian. She is a professor of Science, Technology, and Modern Culture at Maastricht University. Bijsterveld is active in the field of sound studies. The Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences has called her one of the founders of the field.\n\nBijsterveld was director of the Netherlands Graduate Research School of Science, Technology and Modern Culture from 2005 to 2010. In 2009 she won a Vici grant by the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research. This allowed her to do research on the project \"Sonic Skills: Sound and Listening in the Development of Science, Technology and Medicine (1920-now)\".\n\nBijsterveld was elected a member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "44362590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44362590", "title": "León de Garro y Javier", "text": "León de Garro y Javier\n\nLeón de Garro y Javier (?-?) was a Basque nobleman, Count of Javier and Viscount of Zolina.\n\nLeón was born in Pamplona, Kingdom of Navarre, son of Jerónimo de Garro and Ana de Javier, belonging to the Basque nobility. He was married to the noble lady Inés de Coloma, daughter of don Pedro Coloma, Lord of Malon and Maria de Luna.\n\nIn 1604, León de Garro was appointed Alcalde ordinario in Pamplona.\n\n"}
{"id": "26474942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26474942", "title": "Liliana Palihovici", "text": "Liliana Palihovici\n\nLiliana Palihovici (born 26 November 1971 in Horodişte) is a Moldovan politician.\n\nShe has been a member of the Parliament of Moldova from 2009 until 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "43464740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43464740", "title": "List of shipwrecks in the 1st millennium", "text": "List of shipwrecks in the 1st millennium\n\nThe list of shipwrecks in the 1st millennium includes some ships sunk, wrecked or otherwise lost between 1 January AD 1 and 31 December AD 1000, of the Julian calendar.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35612909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35612909", "title": "List of state visits received by Elizabeth II", "text": "List of state visits received by Elizabeth II\n\nSince acceding to the thrones of the Commonwealth realms in 1952, Queen Elizabeth II has received a number of state and official visits. She usually hosts one or two visiting heads of state each year.\n\n"}
{"id": "51198185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51198185", "title": "Marco Fontani", "text": "Marco Fontani\n\nMarco Fontani (born 5 May 1969 in Florence) is a chemist and chemistry historian, author of over 120 publications in materials chemistry, organometallic chemistry, electrochemistry and the history of chemistry. He is also a member of the board of directors of the Italian National Society of History of Chemistry (Gruppo Nazionale di Storia e Fondamenti della Chimica).\n\nHe wrote the books: \"The Lost Elements: The Periodic Table's Shadow Side\" and \"Chemistry and Chemists in Florence: From the Last of the Medici Family to the European Magnetic Resonance Center\". Both edited in Italian and English.\n\nHe has been working at the Department of Organic Chemistry at the University of Florence since 2003.\n"}
{"id": "17900667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17900667", "title": "Maurice Garland Fulton", "text": "Maurice Garland Fulton\n\nMaurice Garland Fulton (1878–1955) was an American academic.\nMaurice Garland Fulton was born on December 3, 1878 in Lafayette County, Mississippi.\n\nHis father, Robert Burwell Fulton (1849–1919), served as the seventh Chancellor of the University of Mississippi in Oxford, Mississippi, and his mother was Annie Rose Garland Fulton (1843–1893). His maternal grandfather, Landon Garland (1810–1895), served as the second President of Randolph-Macon College in Ashland, Virginia from 1836 to 1846, the third President of the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, Alabama from 1855 to 1865, and the first Chancellor of Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee from 1875 to 1893.\n\nHe worked as a Professor of English and History at New Mexico Military Institute in Roswell, New Mexico.\n\nHe died on February 12, 1955 in Roswell, New Mexico.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4234880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4234880", "title": "Morton Horwitz", "text": "Morton Horwitz\n\nMorton J. Horwitz (born 1938) is an American legal historian and law professor at Harvard Law School. The recent past dean of Harvard Law School, Elena Kagan, relates that during her time at law school, students often nicknamed him as \"Mort the Tort\" since he taught the first-year subject Torts.\n\nHorwitz obtained an A.B. from the City College of New York (1959), an A.M. and Ph.D. from Harvard University (1962 and 1964), and an LL.B. from Harvard Law School (1967).\n\nHe became an Associate Professor of Law at Harvard Law School in 1970 and gained tenure as a full professor in 1974. In 1981, he was appointed the Charles Warren Professor of American Legal History.\n\nHis first book, \"The Transformation of American Law, 1780-1860\", was published in 1977, and is widely regarded as one of the most important books in modern American legal historiography. It won the Bancroft Prize, the preeminent prize in American history in the United States. A product of its time, this book sought to give a \"thick description\" (à la Clifford Geertz) of the transformation of American law in the period, without appealing to \"covering laws\" (à la Carl Gustav Hempel). The book was conceived as an attack on the so-called \"Consensus School\" of American Legal History, which had dominated the field of Legal History in the 1950s and minimized the role of class dimensions in American legal history. The main argument of his book is that in the first half of the 19th century, many judges self-consciously allied themselves with a rapidly growing class of mercantile capitalists and promoted a series of legal rules which favored those capitalists. \n\nIn \"The Transformation of American Law, 1870-1960: The Crisis of Legal Orthodoxy\" (1992), the sequel to his first book, Horwitz focused on the critics of the system which he described in his first book, especially Oliver Wendell Holmes, Roscoe Pound, and Karl Llewellyn. He frames this change in the law as a debate between \"Legal Formalists\" and \"Legal Realists\". He argues that in this period, the victors from his first book tried to present the current state of the law as the natural and necessary consequence of the application of the rules of reason. In their critique of Legal Formalism, the Legal Realists argued that the inductive and analogical model applied by the Legal Formalists was logically incoherent; that all law was ultimately a power relationship; and that, therefore, law was basically a form of public policy which should be decided on public policy grounds rather than by recourse to abstract categories like \"reason\".\nIn 1998, Horwitz published his third book, an encomium on the Warren Court entitled \"The Warren Court and the Pursuit of Justice\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5233440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5233440", "title": "Nikoloz Berdzenishvili", "text": "Nikoloz Berdzenishvili\n\nNikoloz Berdzenishvili () (1895–1965) was a Georgian historian who served as a Vice President of the Georgian Academy of Sciences from 1951 to 1957 and chaired the Department of History at Tbilisi State University from 1946 to 1956.\n\n"}
{"id": "15734350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15734350", "title": "Pax Sumerica", "text": "Pax Sumerica\n\nPax Sumerica, Latin for \"the Sumerian peace\", during Ur III, or, Neo-Sumerian Empire. The Sumerian Peace is traditionally considered to have extended until the death of Hammurabi, of the first Babylonian Empire.\n"}
{"id": "13195450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13195450", "title": "Pierre Grimal", "text": "Pierre Grimal\n\nPierre Grimal (November 21, 1912 in Paris – October 11, 1996 in Paris) was a French historian, classicist and Latinist. Fascinated by the Greek and Roman civilizations, he did much to promote the cultural inheritance of the classical world, both among specialists and the general public.\n\nAdmitted to the École Normale Supérieure in 1933, and received third at the \"agrégation de lettres\" in 1935, he was member of the École française de Rome (1935-1937) then taught Latin at a Rennes lycée. Then he was active as a professor of Roman civilization at the faculties of Caen and Bordeaux, and finally at the Sorbonne for thirty years.\n\nHe published studies on the Roman civilization, of which many volumes to the \"Que sais-je?\" series, and translations of Latin classical authors (Cicero, Seneca the Younger, Tacitus, Plautus, Terence). On his retirement, he also published biographies and fictionalized histories (\"Mémoires d’Agrippine\", \"le procès Néron\"), more intended for the general public.\n\nAt the end of his life, he campaigned for the safeguarding of literary teaching.\n\nAll published in Paris-\n\n\n\nPierre Grimal was a member of:\n"}
{"id": "6552391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6552391", "title": "Revolutionary Catalonia", "text": "Revolutionary Catalonia\n\nRevolutionary Catalonia (July 21, 1936 – 1939) was the part of Catalonia (an autonomous region in northeast Spain) controlled by various anarchist, communist, and socialist trade unions, parties, and militias of the Spanish Civil War period. Although the Generalitat of Catalonia was nominally in power, the trade unions were \"de facto\" in command of most of the economy and military forces, which includes the Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (CNT, National Confederation of Labor) which was the dominant labor union at the time and the closely associated Federación Anarquista Ibérica (FAI, Iberian Anarchist Federation). The Unión General de Trabajadores (General Worker's Union), the POUM and the Unified Socialist Party of Catalonia (which included the Communist Party of Catalonia) were also involved.\n\nSocialist rule of the region began with the Spanish Revolution of 1936, resulting in workers' control of businesses and factories, collective farming in the countryside, and attacks against Spanish nationalists and the Catholic clergy. The growing influence of the Communist Party of Spain's (PCE) Popular Front government and their desire to nationalize revolutionary committees and militias brought it into conflict with the CNT and POUM, resulting in the May Days and the eventual replacement of the CNT by the PCE as the major political force in Catalonia until the arrival of the fascists.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the popularity of socialism and anarchism grew throughout Spain. There was widespread discontent in Catalonia, which was heavily industrialized and was a stronghold of the anarcho-syndicalist trade unions. A series of strikes due to wage cuts and in response to military conscription for the Second Rif War in Morocco culminated in the Setmana Tràgica (Tragic Week), July 25 – August 2, 1909, in which workers rose up in revolt and were suppressed by the army. The anarcho-syndicalist Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (CNT) was formed in October 1910 and immediately called for a general strike, which was suppressed by the military. Further strikes followed in 1917 and 1919 amidst growing violence between the police and trade unions. With the CNT outlawed, the Federación Anarquista Ibérica (FAI) was formed in 1927 as a clandestine alliance of affinity groups during the dictatorship of Miguel Primo de Rivera. Its radical members, who were also part of the CNT, exerted considerable influence on the other members of the trade union. During the Second Spanish Republic, anarchists continued to lead uprisings such as the Casas Viejas revolt in 1933 and the Asturian miners' strike of 1934 which was brutally put down by Francisco Franco with the aid of Moorish troops.\n\nDuring the Spanish coup of July 1936, anarchist and socialist militias, along with Republican forces including the Assault and Civil Guards, defeated the forces controlled by Nationalist army officers in Catalonia and parts of eastern Aragon. The Confederación Nacional del Trabajo-Federación Anarquista Ibérica now came to the forefront as the most powerful organization in Barcelona, seizing many arms and strategic buildings such as the telephone exchange and post offices. Through the various factory and transport committees, they dominated the economy of Catalonia. In spite of their militant anti-statism, they decided not to overthrow the Catalan government. The president of the Generalitat of Catalonia and head of the Republican Left of Catalonia (ERC), Lluís Companys, was generally accommodating with the CNT but was wary of their appropriation of the means of production. The CNT and Companys worked together to set up the Central Anti-Fascist Militia Committee, which became the main governing body in the region.\n\nIn spite of the fact that anarchist philosophy was against centralized government of any form and that the CNT-FAI had always shunned parliamentary politics while attacking the Socialists for collaborating with the state, by September 1936 they had decided to join the Generalitat of Catalonia. The CNT feared that arms would be withheld and that they would be isolated if the Generalitat under Lluís Companys formed a government with the Unified Socialist Party of Catalonia (PSUC). CNT members filled the Ministries of Health, Supplies and Economy and the Central Anti-Fascist Militia Committee was dissolved.\n\nSoon after, the CNT also joined the national government. On October 18 a CNT plenary session of the regional federations granted the national committee secretary full powers to conduct negotiations with prime minister Francisco Largo Caballero. CNT representatives Juan García Oliver, Joan Peiró, Federica Montseny and Juan López filled seats in Caballero's cabinet. They took control of the national ministry of justice, industry, health and commerce, respectively. The CNT saw this \"maximum concession compatible with its antiauthoritarian spirit\" as crucial to winning the war. There was widespread friction and debate between the \"collaborationist\" and \"abstentionist\" anarchists in the CNT. Many anarchists outside of Spain (such as Alexander Schapiro) criticized CNT-FAI for entering into the government. There was also concern among anarchists with the growing power of Marxist communists within the government. Anarchist Minister of Health Federica Montseny later explained: \"At that time we only saw the reality of the situation created for us: the communists in the government and ourselves outside, the manifold possibilities, and all our achievements endangered.\"\n\nSome anarchists outside of Spain viewed their concessions as necessary considering the possibility of the Nationalists winning the war. Emma Goldman said, \"With Franco at the gate of Madrid, I could hardly blame the CNT-FAI for choosing a lesser evil: participation in government rather than dictatorship, the most deadly evil.\"\n\nThroughout Catalonia many sectors of the economy fell under the control of the anarchist CNT and the socialist UGT trade unions, where workers' self-management was implemented. These included railways, streetcars, buses, taxicabs, shipping, electric light and power companies, gasworks and waterworks, engineering and automobile assembly plants, mines, mills, factories, food-processing plants, theaters, newspapers, bars, hotels, restaurants, department stores, and thousands of dwellings previously owned by the upper classes. While the CNT was the leading organization in Catalonia, it often shared power with the UGT. For example, control of the Spanish National telephone company, was put under a joint CNT-UGT committee.\n\nGeorge Orwell describes the scene as he arrived in Barcelona.\n\nTrade union control also spread to small businesses of the middle class handicraft men and tradesmen. In Barcelona, the CNT collectivized the sale of fish and eggs, slaughterhouses, milk processing and the fruit and vegetable markets, suppressing all dealers and sellers that were not part of the collective. Many retailers joined the collectives but others refused, wanting higher wages than the workers. Throughout the region, the CNT committees replaced the middle class distributors and traders in many businesses including retailers and wholesalers, hotel, café, and bar owners, opticians and doctors, barbers and bakers. Though the CNT tried to persuade the members of the middle class and small bourgeoisie to join the revolution, they were generally unwelcoming to the revolutionary changes wanting more than just expropriation of their businesses under force or threat of force and a worker's wage.\n\nInitially, the newly collectivized factories encountered various problems. CNT member Albert Pérez-Baró describes the initial economic confusion:\n\nIn response to these problems, the Generalitat of Catalonia, backed by the CNT approved a decree on \"Collectivization and Workers' Control\" on 24 October 1936. Under this decree all firms with more than 100 workers were to be collectivized and those with 100 or less could be collectivized if a majority of workers agreed. All collectivized enterprises were to join general industrial councils, which would be represented in a decentralized planning agency, the Economic Council of Catalonia. Representatives of the Generalitat would be appointed by the CNT to these regional councils. The goal of this new form of organization would be to allow economic planning for civilian and military needs and stop the selfishness of more prosperous industries by using their profits to help others. However these plans for libertarian socialism based on trade unions was opposed by the socialists and communists who wanted a nationalized industry, as well as by unions which did not want to give up their profits to other businesses. Another problem faced by the CNT was that while many collectivized firms were bankrupt, they refused to use the banks because the financial institutions were under the control of the socialist UGT. As a result of this, many were forced to seek government aid, appealing to Juan Peiró, the CNT minister of industry. Socialists and Communists in the government however, prevented Peiró from making any move which promoted collectivization.\n\nAfter the initial disruption, the unions soon began an overall reorganization of all trades, closing down hundreds of smaller plants and focusing on those few better equipped ones, improving working conditions. In the region of Catalonia, more than seventy foundries were closed down, and production concentrated around twenty four larger foundries. The CNT argued that the smaller plants were less efficient and secure. In Barcelona, 905 smaller beauty shops and barbershops were closed down, their equipment and workers being focused on 212 larger shops.\n\nAlthough there were early issues with production in certain instances, however, Emma Goldman attested that industrial productivity doubled almost everywhere across the country, with agricultural yields increased \"30-50%\".\n\nAnarchic communes often produced more than before the collectivization. The newly liberated zones worked on entirely libertarian principles; decisions were made through councils of ordinary citizens without any sort of bureaucracy. (The CNT-FAI leadership was at this time not nearly as radical as the rank and file members responsible for these sweeping changes.)\n\nAs Eddie Conlon wrote in a publication for the Workers' Solidarity Movement:\n\nAnother aspect of the revolution was the rise of an anarcha-feminist women's movement, the Mujeres Libres. The organization, with 30,000 members at its disposal, set up schools to educate women and worked to persuade prostitutes to give up their way of life. The anarcho-feminists argued that overthrow of patriarchal society was just as necessary for personal freedom, as the creation of a classless society. To demonstrate this new sexual equality, some women even fought at the front (no more than one thousand) and several more joined women's battalions in the rear.\n\nJust as in the cities, peasant revolutionaries seized land in the countryside and organized collective farms. According to professor Edward E. Malefakis, between half and two-thirds of all cultivated land in Republican Spain was seized. The targets were mainly small and medium landholders, since most of the large landholdings had fallen to the nationalists.\n\nCollectivization in the countryside generally began with the establishment of CNT-FAI committees. These committees collectivized the soil of the rich and in some cases the soil of the poor as well. Farm buildings, machinery, transport and livestock were also collectivized. Food reserves and other amenities were stored in a communal depot under committee control. In many localities, the local committee issued its own inconvertible paper money; wages were paid with this money, the size of which was determined the size of the family. Locally produced goods were free if abundant, or bought at the communal storage. State issued convertible money was only used in trade with regions that had not adopted this system, and trade with other anarchist regions was done by barter. Since the committee controlled all the money supply, travel to another region required getting permission and convertible money from the committee.\n\nFor the CNT, collectivization was a key component of the revolution, they feared that the small holders and tenant farmers would form the core of a new landholding class and act as an obstacle to the revolution. The Anarchists also believed that private ownership of land created a bourgeois mentality and led to exploitation. While the official policy of the CNT was that of peaceful voluntary collectivization and many small farmers and peasant proprietors voluntarily joined the collectives, a larger proportion of them opposed collectivization or joined only after extreme duress. The presence of armed CNT militiamen also had the effect of imposing fear on those who opposed collectivization. Those smallholders who refused collectivization were prevented from hiring any laborers and usually were forced to sell their crops directly to the committees, on their terms. They were also often denied the services of the collectivized businesses such as the barbershops and bakeries, use of communal transport, farm equipment and food supplies from communal warehouses. All of these economic pressures combined caused many tenant farmers and smallholders to give up their land and join the collectives.\n\nWhile some joined voluntarily, others, especially in the beginning of the revolution, were forced to join the collectives by anarchist militias. The anarcho-syndicalist periodical \"Solidaridad Obrera\" reported that: \"Certain abuses have been committed that we consider counterproductive. We know that certain irresponsible elements have frightened the small peasants and that up to now a certain apathy has been noted in their daily labors.\"\n\nThe voluntary nature of the rural collectivization varied from region to region. According to Ralph Bates: \"While there were plenty of abuses, forced collectivization, etc., there were plenty of good collectives, i.e., voluntary ones.\"\n\nA number of scholars and writers on the subject of the Spanish Civil War counter that the presence of a \"coercive climate\" was an unavoidable aspect of the war that the anarchists cannot be fairly blamed for, and that the presence of deliberate coercion or direct force was minimal, as evidenced by a generally peaceful mixture of collectivists and individualist dissenters who had opted not to participate in collective organization. The latter sentiment is expressed by historian Antony Beevor in his \"Battle for Spain: The Spanish Civil War, 1936-1939\".\n\nHistorian Graham Kelsey also maintains that the anarchist collectives were primarily maintained through libertarian principles of voluntary association and organization, and that the decision to join and participate was generally based on a rational and balanced choice made after the destabilization and effective absence of capitalism as a powerful factor in the region.\n\nThere is also focus placed by pro-anarchist analysts on the many decades of organization and shorter period of CNT-FAI agitation that was to serve as a foundation for high membership levels throughout anarchist Spain, which is often referred to as a basis for the popularity of the anarchist collectives, rather than any presence of force or coercion that allegedly compelled unwilling persons to involuntarily participate.\n\nThe disillusioned middle classes soon found allies in the Communist party which was quite moderate in comparison to the CNT, was generally against the mass collectivization of the revolution and called for the property of smallholders and tradesmen to be respected. They defended the right of the small proprietor to hire laborers and to control the sale of his crops without interference from the local committees. This moderate Communist appeal to the middle classes was in line with the Comintern strategy for a popular front alliance with the liberal and republican center parties.\n\nAfter the military rebellion, the Republic was left with a decimated officer corps and a severely weakened army in the regions it still controlled. Since the army was unable to resist the rebellion, the fighting mainly fell to the militia units organized by the various labor unions. While army officers joined these columns, they were under the control of whichever organization had formed them. The militias suffered from a wide variety of problems. They were inexperienced and lacked discipline and unity of action. Rivalry between the various organizations exacerbated the lack of any centralized command and general staff. The appointed professional officers were not always respected. They also lacked heavy weapons. Militiamen would often leave the front whenever they wished. Republican officer Major Aberri said of the militiamen he encountered at the Aragon front: \"It was the most natural thing in the world for them to leave the front when it was quiet. They knew nothing of discipline, and it was clear that nobody had bothered to instruct them on the subject. After a forty-hour week at the front they got bored and left it...\"\n\nIn the initial months the ministry of war had little authority over transport and was forced to rely on the National Committee of Road Transport controlled by the CNT and UGT. The committees, unions and parties widely disregarded demands from the ministry of war and retained equipment and vehicles for themselves and their own militia forces. In the CNT militias especially, there was no hierarchy, no saluting, no titles, uniforms or distinction in pay and quartering. They were organized into centuries with democratically elected leaders that had no permanent authority.\n\nWhile the militias had their defects, they were instrumental in holding the line at the front and their discipline slowly improved over time, George Orwell who served in the POUM explains:\n\nThe most effective Anarchist unit in Catalonia was the Durruti Column, led by the militant Buenaventura Durruti, it fought mainly in the Aragon front. It was the only anarchist unit which managed to gain respect from otherwise fiercely hostile political opponents. In a section of her memoirs which otherwise lambasts the anarchists, Communist militant Dolores Ibárruri states, \"The [Spanish Civil] war developed with minimal participation from the anarchists in its fundamental operations. One exception was Durruti...\"\n\nThe column began with 3,000 troops but at its peak, was made up of about 8,000 people. They had a difficult time getting arms from a suspicious Republican government, so Durruti and his men compensated by seizing unused arms from government stockpiles. Durruti's death on November 20, 1936, weakened the Column in spirit and tactical ability; they were eventually incorporated, by decree, into the regular army. Over a quarter of the population of Barcelona attended Durruti's funeral. It is still uncertain how Durruti died. Modern historians tend to agree that it was an accident, perhaps a malfunction with his own gun. Widespread rumors at the time claimed treachery by his men. Anarchists tended to claim that he died heroically and was shot by a fascist sniper.\n\nBecause of the need to create a centralized military, the Communist party was in favor of establishing a regular army and integrating the militias into this new force. They were the first party to dissolve their militia forces, including the fifth regiment, one of the most effective units in the war, and create mixed brigades, forming the core of the new Popular Army. These units were firmly under the oversight of Communist party commissars and under the command of experienced army officers. The Communist party eventually came to dominate the leadership of the new army through their commissars, who used any means at their disposal, including violence and death threats, to increase party membership. Soviet army advisers and NKVD agents also exercised considerable influence within the new armed forces.\n\nThe CNT, POUM and other socialist militias initially resisted the integration. The CNT saw the militias as representing the will of the people while a centralized army was against its anti-authoritarian principles. They also feared the army as an organ of the Communist party, and these fears were backed up by the historical suppression of Russian anarchists by the Bolsheviks during the Russian Revolution. However, the CNT were eventually forced to yield to militarization, since the government refused to supply and arm its militias unless they joined the regular army. The experiences of CNT leaders in the front with the badly organized militias and the examples of better structured units such as the International Brigades also made them change their minds and support the creation of a regular army. The CNT conducted its own militarization. Helmut Ruediger of the International Workers' Association (AIT) reported on May 1937: \"There is now in the central zone a CNT army of thirty-three thousand men perfectly armed, well-organized, and with membership cards of the CNT from the first to the last man, under the control of officers also belonging to the CNT.\" Militarization was still resisted by the most radical Anarchists within the CNT-FAI who were extremely passionate about their libertarian ideals. More than any other unit, the famous and notorious Iron Column fiercely resisted militarization. Composed of anarchists from Valencia and freed convicts, the Iron Column was critical of the CNT-FAI for joining the national government and defended the militia system in their periodical Linea de Fuego. The CNT refused to supply them with arms and in March 1937 they were incorporated into the regular army.\n\nAfter the fall of the government of Francisco Largo Caballero and the rise of the Communist party to dominance in the armed forces, the integration of the militias was accelerated and most units were coerced into joining the regular army.\n\nDuring the Civil War, the Spanish Communist Party gained considerable influence due to the Republican force's reliance on weapons, supplies and military advisers from the Soviet Union. Furthermore, the Communist party (now working as the dominant force within the PSUC) constantly proclaimed that it was promoting \"bourgeois democracy\" and was fighting in defense of the Republic, not for proletarian revolution. Opposition to collectivization and the camouflaging of the true nature of the Spanish revolution by the Communist party was mainly due to the fear that the establishment of a revolutionary socialist state would antagonize Western Democracies. The PSUC had also become the major defender of the Catalan middle classes against collectivization, organizing 18,000 tradesmen and artisans into the Catalan Federation of Small Businessmen and Manufacturers (GEPCI).\n\nThe party's attacks on the revolution, particularly the replacement of revolutionary committees with regular organs of state power brought it into conflict with the CNT-FAI, a major supporter of the revolutionary committees and the most powerful working class organization in Catalonia. The revolutionary Boletín de Información declared that: \"The thousands of proletarian combatants at the battle fronts are not fighting for the 'democratic Republic.' They are proletarian revolutionaries, who have taken up arms in order to make the Revolution. To postpone the triumph of the latter until after we win the war would weaken considerably the fighting spirit of the working class... The Revolution and the war are inseparable. Everything that is said to the contrary is reformist counterrevolution.\" In spite of this, CNT ministers in the government also acquiesced to decrees which dissolved revolutionary committees, largely because they believed this would lead to closer ties with Britain and France.\n\nIn the Catalan Generalitat, power was divided between the CNT, PSUC and Republican Left of Catalonia (ERC). Another influential party in Barcelona was the POUM (Workers' Party of Marxist Unification) which espoused an anti-Stalinist far left ideology, and was thus denounced by the PSUC as Trotskyist and Fascist. In turn, the POUM newspaper La Batalla accused the Communists of being counterrevolutionary. On December 1936 the CNT and PSUC agreed to remove the POUM from the Catalan government. This was possibly influenced by Soviet consul Vladimir A. Antonov-Ovseenko who threatened to withdraw arm shipments. The PSUC now sought to weaken the CNT committees through an alliance with the urban middle classes and the rural tenant farmers in the Unió de Rabassaires. They passed a decree banning the committees, but could not effectively enforce it. This was because police power in Barcelona was divided between the CNT controlled patrols under the Junta de seguridad and the Assault and National Republican guards, under police commissioner Rodríguez Salas, a PSUC member. \nThe PSUC and ERC then passed a set of decrees to dissolve the patrols and create a single unified security corps. CNT representatives in the Generalitat did not object, but there was widespread discontent among Anarchists and the POUM. Further decrees by the Generalitat which called up conscripts, dissolved military committees and provided for the integration of the militias into a regular army caused a crisis in which CNT ministers walked out of the government in protest. The POUM also opposed the decrees. Tensions where only exacerbated following the well publicized murders of PSUC secretary Roldán Cortada and Anarchist committee president Antonio Martín. Armed raids and attempts by the Republican guards to disarm the Anarchists and the seizure of towns along the French border from revolutionary committees led the CNT to mobilize and arm its workers.\n\nIn what became known as the Barcelona May Days of 1937, fighting broke out after civil guards attempted to take over a CNT-run telephone building in Barcelona's Plaça de Catalunya. George Orwell who was in the POUM militia at the time described the events leading up to the fighting:\n\nThe Civil guards took the ground floor of the telephone building, but were prevented from taking the upper levels. Soon, trucks carrying armed anarchists arrived. CNT councilors demanded the removal of police commissioner Rodríguez Salas, but Lluís Companys refused. The POUM stood by the CNT and advised them to take control of the city, but the CNT appealed to the workers to cease fighting. With the situation deteriorating, a meeting of CNT delegates from Valencia and the Generalitat under Companys agreed on a ceasefire and a new provisional government, but despite of this, the fighting continued. Dissenting anarchists such as the \"Friends of Durruti\" and radical members of the POUM along with Bolshevik Leninists spread propaganda to continue to the fighting. On Wednesday, May 5, prime minister Largo Caballero, under constant pressure from the PSUC to take control of public order in Catalonia, appointed Colonel Antonio Escobar of the Republican Guard as delegate of public order, but on his arrival in Barcelona, Escobar was shot and seriously wounded. After constant appeals by the CNT, POUM and UGT for a ceasefire, the fighting abated on the morning of May 6. In the evening, news reached Barcelona that 1,500 assault guards were approaching the city. The CNT agreed on a truce after negotiations with the minister of interior back in Valencia. They agreed that the assault guards would not be attacked as long as they refrained from violence and that the CNT would order its members to abandon the barricades and go back to work. On May 7, the assault guards entered Barcelona unopposed, and soon there were twelve thousand government troops in the city.\n\nIn the days following the fighting in Barcelona, various Communist newspapers engaged in a massive propaganda campaign against the anarchists and the POUM. \"Pravda\" and the American communist \"Daily Worker\" claimed that Trotskyists and Fascists were behind the uprising. The Spanish Communist party newspapers also viciously attacked the POUM, denouncing members as traitors and fascists. The Communists, supported by the centrist faction of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE) under Indalecio Prieto now called for the POUM to be dissolved, but PM Largo Caballero resisted this move, and the Communists, along with their allies in the PSOE, then left the government in protest. The following crisis led to the removal of Largo Caballero by President Manuel Azaña. Azaña then appointed Juan Negrín (a centrist socialist and ally of the Communists and the Kremlin) as the new premier. The new cabinet was dominated by the Communists, center socialists and republicans, the CNT and left wing of the PSOE were not represented. The Communist Party of Spain (PCE) had now come to the fore as the most influential force in the Republican government.\n\nIn Catalonia, now controlled by troops under the Command of Communist General Sebastián Pozas and newly appointed Barcelona chief of Police Ricardo Burillo, the CNT independent police patrols were dissolved and disarmed. Furthermore, the CNT were completely removed from their positions at the Franco-Spanish border posts. Another major blow to the CNT was the dissolution of countless revolutionary committees throughout Catalonia by the army and assault guards. When a new cabinet was formed by President Companys, the CNT decided not to participate. In the months that followed, the Communists carried out a campaign of arrests, tortures and assassinations against the CNT. The imprisonment of many Anarchists caused a wave of dissent in working class quarters. Meanwhile, the Communists working with Soviet agents seized most of the POUM leadership along with many of its members. The POUM secretary Andrés Nin was also arrested, sent to a secret prison in Alcalá de Henares and eventually murdered. Nin's disappearance, and the repression of the POUM, caused an international outcry from various left wing organizations and further deepened the divisions within the Republic.\n\nBy the end of May 1937, the Communists were conducting a campaign to destroy the rural collectives. The PCE used the Popular army and the National Guard to dissolve CNT committees and aid tenant farmers and sharecroppers recover land lost in the revolution. On 11 August, the Eleventh popular army division dissolved the CNT dominated Regional Defense Council of Aragon by force. With the aid of the army and the assault guards, the tenant farmers and small owners who had lost their land in the beginning of the revolution now divided up the land confiscated from the collectives. Even those collectives that had been created voluntarily were raided. This caused widespread discontent amongst the peasants, the situation became so dire that the Communist party agrarian commission admitted that \"agricultural work was paralyzed\" and was forced to restore some of the collectives.\n\nIn spite of the continued attacks by the PCE, the CNT eventually agreed to sign a pact of cooperation with the now Communist dominated UGT (the PCE had infiltrated the UGT and ousted Largo Caballero from his position in its executive). The pact was supposed to guarantee the legality of the remaining collectives and of worker's control, while at the same time recognizing the authority of the state on matters such as nationalization of industry and the armed forces. In reality, the collectives were never granted legal status, while the agreement served the further divide the anarchist movement between the anti-statist and collaborationist camps.\n\nOn March 7, 1938, the Nationalist forces launched a massive offensive in Aragon. They succeeded in smashing the Republican defenses so thoroughly that their forces had reached the Mediterranean coast by 15 April, splitting the Republican territory in two. Catalonia was now cut off from the rest of the Republican territory.\n\nBy 1938 the Communist party was also in control of the newly created Military Investigation Service. The SIM was virtually dominated by Communist party members, allies and Soviet agents such as Aleksandr Mikhailovich Orlov and used as a tool of political repression. According to Basque nationalist Manuel de Irujo, \"hundreds and thousands of citizens\" were prosecuted by SIM tribunals and tortured in the SIM's secret prisons. Repression by the SIM as well as decrees which eroded Catalan autonomy by nationalizing the Catalan war industry, ports and courts caused widespread discontent in Catalonia amongst all social classes. Relations worsened between the Generalitat and the central government of Negrín, now based in Barcelona with the resignation of Jaime Aiguadé, representative of the Republican Left of Catalonia (ERC) party in the government and Manuel de Irujo, the Basque Nationalist minister. There was now widespread hostility amongst Republicans, Catalans, Basques and Socialists towards the Negrin government. As the Communists were forced to rely more and more on their dominance of the military and police, morale declined at the front as countless dissenting anarchists, republicans and socialists were arrested or shot by commissars and SIM agents.\n\nMeanwhile, there was now a growing schism within the CNT and the FAI. Leading figures such as Horacio Prieto and minister of education Segundo Blanco argued for collaboration with the national government. Dissenting anarchists such as Jacinto Toryho, the director of Solidaridad Obrera and FAI delegate Pedro Herrera were harshly critical of this policy. Toryho was removed from his position by the CNT national committee on May 7, 1938. Two months before the fall of Catalonia, a national plenum of the libertarian socialists was held in Barcelona between 16 and 30 October 1938. Emma Goldman was in attendance and she defended the FAI in \"opposition to the growing encroachment of the Negrín government on the libertarian achievements\". According to José Peirats, Horacio Prieto argued for an \"undisguised reformism bordering on Marxism,\" and that \"truly effective action\" was only possible through \"organs of power.\" He also criticized the naivete of the anarchists and its \"lack of concrete plans.\"\n\nBetween July and November 1938 the Republican forces launched their largest offensive yet which was designed to reconnect their divided territory with Catalonia. Lacking in air support, armor and heavy artillery, the Popular army was soundly defeated in the disastrous Battle of the Ebro. According to Beevor, losses were as high as 30,000 on the Republican side. The Popular army was practically destroyed. It was the last action of the International Brigades and the Republican air force. \nOn December 23, Nationalist forces launched their assault on Catalonia. By now, most Catalans were demoralized and tired of the fighting. Alienated by the Negrin government and the Communist party's nationalization of industry, the CNT was filled with defeatism and internal division. Pi Sunyer, mayor of Barcelona and a leader of the ERC, told President Azaña that \"the Catalans no longer knew why they were fighting, because of Negrín's anti-Catalan policy.\" Catalonia was swiftly conquered by Nationalist troops. After 4 days of aerial bombardment (between 21 and 25 January), Barcelona fell on January 26. Afterwards there followed five days of looting and extrajudicial killings by the Nationalist troops. Between 400,000 and 500,000 refugees including the defeated Army of Catalonia crossed the border into France. With the Nationalists now in control, Catalan autonomy was abolished. The Catalan language, the Sardana and Catalan Christian names were forbidden. All the Catalan newspapers were requisitioned and the forbidden books retired and burned.\n\nThe Austrian author Franz Borkenau was sharply critical of the anarchists in Catalonia. In a book which was also very critical of the USSR-backed Communists, he described the terror which they had inflicted on Barcelona residents and their environment.\n\nDuring the first weeks of the war, courts of law were replaced by revolutionary tribunals. Extrajudicial killings by militants and vigilantes soon followed.\n\nDuring the initial fighting several thousand individuals were executed by anarchist and socialist militants based on their assumed political allegiance and social class.\n\nBecause of its role as a leading supporter of the Nationalist cause, the Catholic Church came under attack throughout the region. Church buildings were burned or taken over by the CNT or by supporters of the Republican government and turned into warehouses or put to other secular uses. Thousands of members of the Catholic clergy were tortured and killed and many more fled the country or sought refuge in foreign embassies.\n\nAntony Beevor estimates the total number of people killed in Catalonia in the summer and autumn of 1936 at 8,352 (out of a total of 38,000 victims of the Red Terror in all of Spain).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10818779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10818779", "title": "Rudolf of Fulda", "text": "Rudolf of Fulda\n\nRudolf of Fulda (d. March 8, 865) was a monk of the Benedictine order during the Carolingian period in the ninth century. Rudolf was active at the monastery of Fulda in the present-day German state of Hesse. Many of his works have been lost. However, his Annals of Fulda and Life of St. Leoba) survive.\n\nIt is uncertain when Rudolf of Fulda was born. There exists no surviving record of his early ecclesiastical life. Furthermore, there exists no record of his familia lineage. Only the date of his death is known from a reference made to the late monk of Fulda in a passage from the Annals of Fulda dated 865. He was a monk of the Benedictine monastery of Fulda. By the year 821, Rudolf was made subdeacon of the monastery. A position which is recognized as, “... a cleric in the lowest of the former major orders of the Roman Catholic Church”. Rudolf was a devoted theologian, historian, poet and, “...a most notable practitioner of all the arts”. Rudolf of Fulda was a pupil of Rhabanus Maurus and together they would oversee a collection of two-thousand manuscripts which signified the monastery’s importance as not only a place of worship, but also a highly important library in which they also had in their possession a copy of Tacitus’ Germania. The monastery of Fulda also required such works as the Res Gestae by the fourth century Roman historian Ammianus Marcellinus and the Codex Fuldensis. The Monastery of Fulda also had in its possession works composed by Cicero, Servius, Bede and Supicius Severus.\n\nRudolf is considered to be one of the most important writers of his time and has written several works:\n\n\nThe study of Rudolf of Fulda’s surviving work provides modern day scholars an insight into his personal beliefs and opinions. Through careful textual analysis, scholars, such as Margaret Cotter-Lynch, have provided a deeper rooted insight into his work. Textual analysis begins with two of his most prominent works: The Life of Leoba, (composed in 836), and the Annals of Fulda, (for which Rudalf of Fulda contributed to between 836 until his death in 865). Under the orders of Rhabanus Maurus, Rudolf of Fulda was given the task of compsing the hagiography of St. Leoba (b.710 - d. 28 September 782), a Saxon nun whom achieved sainthood. This textual record represents a step in a new direction during the Carolingian period in which led to hagiography. This textual source provides us with a glimpse into the mindset of Rudolf of Fulda.\n\nScholars such as Margaret Cotter-Lynch, author of Reading Leoba, or Hagiography as a Compromise and Valerie L. Garver, author of Women and Aristocratic Culture in the Carolingian World have pointed to the agenda interwoven within Rudolf of Fulda’s Life of Leoba. The Life of St. Leoba was completed by Rudolf of Fulda at the request of Hrabanus. Most apparent in this text are the gender stereotypes of the ninth-century. In the Life of Leoba, Rudolf of Fulda clearly addresses what he believes to be the appropriate role of women in the ninth century. As Margaret Cotter-Lynch, author of Reading Leoba, or Hagiography as Compromise, states, \n“Rudolf’s ideals concerning religious women’s behavior seem to align with the official positions of the ninth-century Carolingian church after the Benedictine reforms: religious women are to be strictly cloistered, focused on internal piety and prayer, with very limited if any engagement with either the ecclesiastical or secular worlds beyond the covent’s walls”. Rudolf of Leoba’s opinions coincide with a period in which “large male communities dominated local religious, and also social, economical and political life”\n"}
{"id": "58555711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58555711", "title": "Sebastian Sobecki", "text": "Sebastian Sobecki\n\nSebastian Sobecki (born 1973) is a medievalist specialising in English literature, history, and manuscript studies. \n\nSobecki is Professor of Medieval English Literature and Culture at the University of Groningen, the oldest chair (founded in 1886) for English literature in the Netherlands. He also holds by courtesy the Professorship of Old Germanic, established in 1881. Having received his education at the University of Cambridge, Sobecki became an Assistant Professor at McGill University before being appointed at Groningen. He works on medieval English and early Tudor literature, particularly on Chaucer, Gower, manuscripts, politics, law, travel, and Anglo-European relations. Sobecki was awarded the John Hurt Fisher Prize by the John Gower Society.\n\nSobecki has written widely on medieval and early modern topics, across 10 published and forthcoming books, and more than 50 academic articles and chapters, many of which have appeared in leading journals, including \"Speculum\", \"English Literary History\", \"Studies in the Age of Chaucer\", \"Renaissance Studies\", \"The English Historical Review\", \"The Chaucer Review\", \"The Library\", \"New Medieval Literatures\", and \"The Review of English Studies\". Together with Michelle Karnes (University of Notre Dame), Sobecki has been appointed editor of the journal \"Studies in the Age of Chaucer\". He is completing his third authored book, \"The Material Politics of England’s Fifteenth-Century Literature\" (Oxford: Oxford University Press) and two volumes in the Oxford edition of Richard Hakluyt's \"Principal Navigations\". Sobecki is also editing \"The Cambridge History of Medieval Travel Writing\".\n\nHe has made a number of important archival discoveries, such as identifying John Gower's autograph hand, finding a letter written for Margery Kempe's son, locating rebels linked to \"Piers Plowman\", revealing the author (John Peyton) of the earliest English description of Poland, and demonstrating connections between tax records and the General Prologue to Geoffrey Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\". Sobecki is also the voice behind the popular video recording of John Skelton's 'Speke Parott'. \n\n"}
{"id": "2464259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2464259", "title": "Sikandar (1941 film)", "text": "Sikandar (1941 film)\n\nSikandar or Sikander (Hindi: सिकंदर, Urdu: سِکندر) is a 1941 epic Bollywood film directed by Sohrab Modi and starring Prithviraj Kapoor as Alexander the Great.\n\nThe battle sequences featuring thousands of extras along with horses, elephants and chariots were filmed in Kolhapur.\n\nThe story is set in 326 B.C. The film begins after Alexander the Great (Sikander in Hindi/Urdu) conquers Persia and the Kabul valley and approaches the Indian border at Jhelum. He respects Aristotle and loves Persian Rukhsana (known in the west as Roxana). Sohrab Modi plays the Indian king Puru (Porus to the Greeks). Puru requests neighbouring kingdoms to unite against a common foreign enemy.\n\nThe story goes that when Sikander defeated Porus and imprisoned him, he asked Porus how would he like to be treated. Porus replied: \"the same way a king is treated by another king\". Sikander was impressed by his answer and set him free.\n\n\nThe release of the film coincided with World War II and the quest for Swaraj or Quit India at its peak. In India, the political atmosphere was tense, following Gandhi's call to civil disobedience. Sikander further aroused patriotic feelings and nationalistic sentiment. Thus, though \"Sikander\" was approved by the Bombay censor board, it was later banned from some of the theatres serving British Indian Army cantonments.\n\nHowever, its appeal to nationalism was so great and direct, it remained popular for years. It was revived in Delhi in 1961 during the Indian march into Goa. After the movie was a huge box office success, it was dubbed and released in Persian. The music of \"Sikandar\" was composed by Meer Sahib. A prominent song was \"Zindagi Hai Pyar Se, Pyar Se Bitaye Ja\".\n"}
{"id": "80197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80197", "title": "Soviet–Afghan War", "text": "Soviet–Afghan War\n\nThe Soviet–Afghan War lasted over nine years, from December 1979 to February 1989. Insurgent groups known collectively as the mujahideen, as well as smaller Maoist groups, fought a guerrilla war against the Soviet Army and the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan government, mostly in the rural countryside. The mujahideen groups were backed primarily by the United States, Saudi Arabia, and Pakistan, making it a Cold War proxy war. Between 562,000 and 2,000,000 civilians were killed and millions of Afghans fled the country as refugees, mostly to Pakistan and Iran.\n\nPrior to the arrival of Soviet troops, Afghanistan's communist party took power after a 1978 coup, installing Nur Mohammad Taraki as president. The party initiated a series of radical modernization reforms throughout the country that were deeply unpopular, particularly among the more traditional rural population and the established traditional power structures. The government's Stalinist-like nature of vigorously suppressing opposition, executing thousands of political prisoners and ordering massacres against unarmed civilians, led to the rise of anti-government armed groups, and by April 1979 large parts of the country were in open rebellion. The government itself experienced in-party rivalry, and in September 1979 Taraki was murdered under orders of his rival and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Hafizullah Amin, which soured relations with the Soviet Union. Eventually the Soviet government, under leader Leonid Brezhnev, decided to the 40th Army on December 24, 1979. Arriving in the capital Kabul, they staged a coup, killing president Amin and installing Soviet loyalist Babrak Karmal from a rival faction. The deployment had been variously called an \"invasion\" (by Western media and the rebels) or a legitimate supporting intervention (by the Soviet Union and the Afghan government) on the basis of the Brezhnev Doctrine.\n\nIn January 1980, foreign ministers from 34 nations of the Islamic Conference adopted a resolution demanding \"the immediate, urgent and unconditional withdrawal of Soviet troops\" from Afghanistan, while the UN General Assembly passed a resolution protesting the Soviet intervention by a vote of 104 (for)–18 (against), with 18 abstentions and 12 members of the 152-nation Assembly absent or not participating in the vote. Afghan insurgents began to receive massive amounts of aid and military training in neighboring Pakistan and China, paid for primarily by the United States and Arab monarchies in the Persian Gulf. As documented by the National Security Archive, \"the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) played a significant role in asserting U.S. influence in Afghanistan by funding military operations designed to frustrate the Soviet invasion of that country. CIA covert action worked through Pakistani intelligence services to reach Afghan rebel groups.\" Soviet troops occupied the cities and main arteries of communication, while the mujahideen waged guerrilla war in small groups operating in the almost 80 percent of the country that was outside government and Soviet control, almost exclusively being the rural countryside. The Soviets used their air power to deal harshly with both rebels and civilians, levelling villages to deny safe haven to the mujahideen, destroying vital irrigation ditches, and laying millions of land mines.\n\nThe military intervention was sharply and almost immediately denounced by the international community, with numerous sanctions and embargoes being imposed against the Soviet Union and the U.S.-led 1980 Summer Olympics boycott against Moscow, which was holding the event; the boycott and sanctions exacerbated Cold War tensions and enraged the Soviet government which later began and led a revenge boycott of the 1984 Olympics held in Los Angeles. The Soviets initially planned to secure towns and roads, stabilize the government under new leader Karmal, and withdraw within six months or a year. But they were met with fierce resistance from the guerillas, and were stuck in a bloody war that lasted nine years. By the mid-1980s, the Soviet contingent was increased to 108,800 and fighting increased, but the military and diplomatic cost of the war to the USSR was high. By mid-1987 the Soviet Union, now under reformist leader Mikhail Gorbachev, announced it would start withdrawing its forces after meetings with the Afghan government. The final troop withdrawal started on May 15, 1988, and ended on February 15, 1989, leaving the government forces alone in its battle against the insurgents, which continued until 1992 when the former Soviet-backed government collapsed. Due to its length, it has sometimes been referred to as the \"Soviet Union's Vietnam War\" or the \"Bear Trap\" by the Western media. The Soviets' failure at the war is thought to be a contributing factor to the fall of the Soviet Union.\n\nIn 1885, Russian forces seized the disputed oasis at Panjdeh south of the Oxus River from Afghan forces, which became known as the Panjdeh Incident. The border was agreed by the joint Anglo-Russian Afghan Boundary Commission of 1885–87. The Russian interest in the region continued on through the Soviet era, with billions in economic and military aid sent to Afghanistan between 1955 and 1978.\n\nAfter the Saur Revolution in 1978, the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan was formed on April 27, 1978. The government was one with a pro-poor, pro-farmer socialist agenda. It had close relations with the Soviet Union. On December 5, 1978, a treaty of friendship was signed between the Soviet Union and Afghanistan.\n\nIn February 1979, the United States Ambassador to Afghanistan, Adolph Dubs, was kidnapped by Setami Milli militants and was later killed during an assault carried out by the Afghan police, assisted by Soviet advisers. Dubs' death led to a major deterioration in Afghanistan–United States relations.\n\nIn Southwestern Asia, drastic changes were taking place concurrent with the upheavals in Afghanistan. In February 1979, the Iranian Revolution ousted the American-backed Shah from Iran, losing the United States as one of its most powerful allies. The United States then deployed twenty ships in the Persian Gulf and the Arabian Sea including two aircraft carriers, and there was a constant stream of threats of warfare between the U.S. and Iran.\nMarch 1979 marked the signing of the U.S.-backed peace agreement between Israel and Egypt. The Soviet leadership saw the agreement as giving a major advantage to the United States. A Soviet newspaper stated that Egypt and Israel were now \"gendarmes of the Pentagon\". The Soviets viewed the treaty not only as a peace agreement between their erstwhile allies in Egypt and the US-supported Israelis but also as a military pact. In addition, the US sold more than 5,000 missiles to Saudi Arabia. Also, the Soviet Union's previously strong relations with Iraq had recently soured. In June 1978, Iraq began entering into friendlier relations with the Western world and buying French and Italian-made weapons, though the vast majority still came from the Soviet Union, its Warsaw Pact allies, and China.\n\nKing Mohammed Zahir Shah ascended to the throne and reigned from 1933 to 1973. Zahir's cousin, Mohammad Daoud Khan, served as Prime Minister from 1954 to 1963. The Marxist People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan's (PDPA's) strength grew considerably in these years. In 1967, the PDPA split into two rival factions, the Khalq (Masses) faction headed by Nur Muhammad Taraki and Hafizullah Amin and the Parcham (Flag) faction led by Babrak Karmal.\n\nFormer Prime Minister Daoud seized power in a military coup on July 17, 1973 after allegations of corruption and poor economic conditions against the king's government. Daoud put an end to the monarchy, and his time in power was widely popular among the general populace but unpopular among PDPA supporters.\n\nIntense opposition from factions of the PDPA was sparked by the repression imposed on them by Daoud's regime and the death of a leading PDPA member, Mir Akbar Khyber. The mysterious circumstances of Khyber's death sparked massive anti-Daoud demonstrations in Kabul, which resulted in the arrest of several prominent PDPA leaders.\n\nOn April 27, 1978, the Afghan army, which had been sympathetic to the PDPA cause, overthrew and executed Daoud along with members of his family. Nur Muhammad Taraki, Secretary General of the PDPA, became President of the Revolutionary Council and Prime Minister of the newly established Democratic Republic of Afghanistan.\n\nAfter the revolution, Taraki assumed the Presidency, Prime Ministership and General Secretaryship of the PDPA. The government was divided along factional lines, with President Taraki and Deputy Prime Minister Hafizullah Amin of the Khalq faction against Parcham leaders such as Babrak Karmal and Mohammad Najibullah. Within the PDPA, conflicts resulted in exiles, purges and executions of Parcham members. The PDPA executed between 10,000 and 27,000 people, mostly at Pul-e-Charkhi prison prior to the Soviet intervention.\n\nDuring its first 18 months of rule, the PDPA applied a Soviet-style program of modernizing reforms, many of which were viewed by conservatives as opposing Islam. Decrees setting forth changes in marriage customs and land reform were not received well by a population deeply immersed in tradition and Islam, particularly by the powerful landowners who were harmed economically by the abolition of usury (although usury is prohibited in Islam) and the cancellation of farmers' debts. The new government also enhanced women's rights, sought a rapid eradication of illiteracy and promoted Afghanistan's ethnic minorities, although these programs appear to have had an effect only in the urban areas. By mid-1978, a rebellion started, with rebels attacking the local military garrison in the Nuristan region of eastern Afghanistan and soon civil war spread throughout the country. In September 1979, Deputy Prime Minister Hafizullah Amin seized power, arresting and killing President Taraki. Over two months of instability overwhelmed Amin's regime as he moved against his opponents in the PDPA and the growing rebellion.\n\nThe Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) had been a major power broker and influential mentor in the politics of its poorer and much smaller neighbor. Its involvement ranging from civil-military infrastructure to Afghan society. Since 1947, Afghanistan had been under the influence of the Soviet government and received large amounts of aid, economic assistance, military equipment training and military hardware from the Soviet Union. Economic assistance and aid had been provided to Afghanistan as early as 1919, shortly after the Russian Revolution and when the regime was facing the Russian Civil War. Provisions were given in the form of small arms, ammunition, a few aircraft, and (according to debated Soviet sources) a million gold rubles to support the resistance during the Third Anglo-Afghan War in 1919. In 1942, the USSR again moved to strengthen the Afghan Armed Forces, by providing small arms and aircraft, and establishing training centers in Tashkent (Uzbek Soviet Socialist Republic). Soviet-Afghan military cooperation began on a regular basis in 1956, and further agreements were made in the 1970s, which saw the USSR send advisers and specialists.\n\nIn 1978, after witnessing India's nuclear test, \"Smiling Buddha\", President Daud Khan initiated a military buildup to counter Pakistan's armed forces and Iranian military influence in Afghan politics. A final pre-war treaty, signed in December 1978, allowed the PDPA to call upon the Soviet Union for military support.\n\nFollowing the Herat uprising, President Taraki contacted Alexei Kosygin, chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers, and asked for \"practical and technical assistance with men and armament\". Kosygin was unfavorable to the proposal on the basis of the negative political repercussions such an action would have for his country, and he rejected all further attempts by Taraki to solicit Soviet military aid in Afghanistan. Following Kosygin's rejection, Taraki requested aid from Leonid Brezhnev, the general secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and Soviet head of state, who warned Taraki that full Soviet intervention \"would only play into the hands of our enemies – both yours and ours\". Brezhnev also advised Taraki to ease up on the drastic social reforms and to seek broader support for his regime.\n\nIn 1979, Taraki attended a conference of the Non-Aligned Movement in Havana, Cuba. On his way back, he stopped in Moscow on March 20 and met with Brezhnev, Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko and other Soviet officials. It was rumoured that Karmal was present at the meeting in an attempt to reconcile Taraki's Khalq faction and the Parcham against Amin and his followers. At the meeting, Taraki was successful in negotiating some Soviet support, including the redeployment of two Soviet armed divisions at the Soviet-Afghan border, the sending of 500 military and civilian advisers and specialists and the immediate delivery of Soviet armed equipment sold at 25 percent below the original price; however, the Soviets were not pleased about the developments in Afghanistan and Brezhnev impressed upon Taraki the need for party unity. Despite reaching this agreement with Taraki, the Soviets continued to be reluctant to intervene further in Afghanistan and repeatedly refused Soviet military intervention within Afghan borders during Taraki's rule as well as later during Amin's short rule.\n\nAfghanistan cemented regional problems with Pakistan, after Daoud pressed his hard-line Pashtunistan policies to Pakistan. Pakistan retaliated, and Prime minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto authorized a covert operation under MI's Major-General Naseerullah Babar. In 1974, Bhutto authorized another secret operation in Kabul where the \"ISI\" and the \"AI\" extradited Burhanuddin Rabbani and Gulbadin Hekmatyar to Peshawar, amid fear that Rabbani and Hekmatyar might be assassinated by Daoud. According to Baber, Bhutto's operation was an excellent idea and it had hard-hitting impact on Daoud and his government which forced Daoud to increase his desire to make peace with Bhutto. Another part of this operation was to train hard-line Jamiat-e Islami militants against the Daoud's secular government. However, this operation went into cold-storage after Bhutto was removed from power.\n\nIn June 1975, militants from the Jamiat Islami party attempted to overthrow the government. They started their rebellion in the Panjshir valley (a part of the greater Parwan province), in the present day Panjshir province, some 100 kilometers north of Kabul, and in a number of other provinces of the country. However, government forces easily defeated the insurgency and a sizable portion of the insurgents sought refuge in Pakistan where they enjoyed the support of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto's government, which had been alarmed by Daoud's revival of the Pashtunistan issue.\n\nIn 1978, the Taraki government initiated a series of reforms, including a radical modernization of the traditional Islamic civil and especially marriage law, aimed at \"uprooting feudalism\" in Afghan society. The government brooked no opposition to the reforms and responded with violence to unrest. Between April 1978 and the Soviet Intervention of December 1979, thousands of prisoners, perhaps as many as 27,000, were executed at the notorious Pul-e-Charkhi prison, including many village mullahs and headmen. Other members of the traditional elite, the religious establishment and intelligentsia fled the country.\n\nLarge parts of the country went into open rebellion. The Parcham Government claimed that 11,000 were executed during the Amin/Taraki period in response to the revolts. The revolt began in October among the Nuristani tribes of the Kunar Valley in the northeastern part of the country near the border with Pakistan, and rapidly spread among the other ethnic groups. By the spring of 1979, 24 of the 28 provinces had suffered outbreaks of violence. The rebellion began to take hold in the cities: in March 1979 in Herat, rebels led by Ismail Khan revolted. Between 3,000 and 5,000 people were killed and wounded during the Herat revolt. Some 100 Soviet citizens and their families were killed.\n\nIn February 1979, the contentious law and order situation led to a serious diplomatic incident involving United States, Soviet Union and Afghanistan when U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Adolph \"Spike\" Dubs was kidnapped by a mysterious group of militants. They are sometimes alleged to have been part of the radical communist faction, \"Settam-e-Melli\" (lit. \"National Oppression\"), but are also sometimes described as Islamists. The National Oppression reportedly demanded the release of their communist leader Badruddin Bahes, whom the Afghan government denied holding. The government refused categorically to negotiate with the militants, in spite of the U.S. embassy's demands. The U.S. increased pressure on the Afghan government and the Soviet Union, forcefully demanding peaceful negotiations for the release of their ambassador.\n\nDubs was held in Room 117 of the Kabul Hotel, where the United States sent its embassy and diplomatic staff to negotiate with the communist faction. The Afghan security forces, accompanied by the Russian advisers, swarmed the hallway and surrounding rooftops of the hotel. When negotiations stalled, there was an intense exchange of fire after Russian advisers ordered an assault. Documents released from the Soviet KGB bureau archives by Vasily Mitrokhin in the early 1990s suggest that the Afghan government authorized the assault and that the KGB adviser on scene, Sergei Batrukihn, may have recommended the assault, as well as the execution of a kidnapper before U.S. experts could interrogate him. All attempts at negotiation failed, and U.S. Ambassador Adolph Dubs was caught in the crossfire, leading to his death. Afterwards the United States formally expressed to Soviet Union its disapproval of the assault by the security forces, putting more stress on U.S.-Soviet relations.\n\nIn the mid-1970s, Pakistani intelligence officials began privately lobbying the U.S. and its allies to send material assistance to the Islamist insurgents. Pakistani President Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq's ties with the U.S. had been strained during Jimmy Carter's presidency due to Pakistan's nuclear program and the execution of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto in April 1979, but Carter told National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski and Secretary of State Cyrus Vance as early as January 1979 that it was vital to \"repair our relationships with Pakistan\" in light of the unrest in Iran. According to former Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) official Robert Gates, \"the Carter administration turned to CIA ... to counter Soviet and Cuban aggression in the Third World, particularly beginning in mid-1979.\" In March 1979, \"CIA sent several covert action options relating to Afghanistan to the SCC <nowiki>[</nowiki>Special Coordination Committee<nowiki>]</nowiki>\" of the United States National Security Council. At a March 30 meeting, U.S. Department of Defense representative Walter B. Slocombe \"asked if there was value in keeping the Afghan insurgency going, 'sucking the Soviets into a Vietnamese quagmire?'\" When asked to clarify this remark, Slocombe explained: \"Well, the whole idea was that if the Soviets decided to strike at this tar baby [Afghanistan] we had every interest in making sure that they got stuck.\" Yet an April 5 memo from National Intelligence Officer Arnold Horelick warned: \"Covert action would raise the costs to the Soviets and inflame Moslem opinion against them in many countries. The risk was that a substantial U.S. covert aid program could raise the stakes and induce the Soviets to intervene more directly and vigorously than otherwise intended.\"\n\nIn May 1979, U.S. officials secretly began meeting with rebel leaders through Pakistani government contacts. A former Pakistani military official claimed that he personally introduced a CIA official to Gulbuddin Hekmatyar that month (Freedom of Information Act requests for records describing these meetings have been denied). After additional meetings on April 6 and July 3, Carter signed a \"presidential 'finding'\" that \"authorized the CIA to spend just over $500,000\" on \"non-lethal\" aid to the mujahideen, which \"seemed at the time a small beginning.\" Brzezinski later claimed that \"We didn't push the Russians to intervene, but we knowingly increased the probability that they would.\" According to Brzezinski, he became convinced by mid-1979 that the Soviets were going to invade Afghanistan regardless of U.S. policy due to the Carter administration's failure to respond aggressively to Soviet activity in Africa, but—despite the risk of unintended consequences—support for the mujahideen could be an effective way to prevent Soviet aggression beyond Afghanistan (particularly in Brzezinski's native Poland).\n\nThe full significance of the U.S. sending aid to the mujahideen prior to the invasion is debated among scholars. Some assert that it directly, and even deliberately, provoked the Soviets to send in troops. Bruce Riedel, however, believes that the U.S. aid was intended primarily to improve U.S. relations with Pakistan, while Steve Coll asserts: \"Contemporary memos—particularly those written in the first days after the Soviet invasion—make clear that while Brzezinski was determined to confront the Soviets in Afghanistan through covert action, he was also very worried the Soviets would prevail. ... Given this evidence and the enormous political and security costs that the invasion imposed on the Carter administration, any claim that Brzezinski lured the Soviets into Afghanistan warrants deep skepticism.\" Carter himself has stated that encouraging a Soviet invasion was \"not my intention.\" Gates recounted: \"No one in the Carter Administration wanted the Soviets to invade Afghanistan and no one, as I can recall at least, ever advocated attempting to induce them to invade ... Only after the Soviet invasion did some advocate making the Soviets 'bleed' in their own Vietnam.\" Conversely, Andrew Bacevich writes that \"the prospect of inducing conflict on the scale of Vietnam exerted great appeal\" in the White House even prior to the Soviet invasion, as \"fomenting trouble in Afghanistan would dissuade the Soviets from meddling in the Persian Gulf.\" Chalmers Johnson considered the Soviet invasion \"deliberately provoked\" by the U.S.\n\nAlthough Gates described Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) Stansfield Turner and the CIA's Directorate of Operations (DO) as contemplating \"several enhancement options\"—up to and including the direct provision of arms from the U.S. to the mujahideen through the ISI—as early as late August 1979, and an unnamed Brzezinski aide acknowledged in conversation with Selig S. Harrison that the U.S.'s nominally \"non-lethal\" assistance to the mujahideen included facilitating arms shipments by third-parties, Coll, Harrison, Riedel, and the head of the DO's Near East–South Asia Division at the time—Charles Cogan—all state that no U.S.-supplied arms intended for the mujahideen reached Pakistan until January 1980, after Carter amended his presidential finding to include lethal provisions in late December 1979.\n\nThe Afghan government, having secured a treaty in December 1978 that allowed them to call on Soviet forces, repeatedly requested the introduction of troops in Afghanistan in the spring and summer of 1979. They requested Soviet troops to provide security and to assist in the fight against the mujaheddin rebels. After the killing of Soviet technicians in Herat by rioting mobs, the Soviet government sold several Mi-24 helicopters to the Afghan military, and increased the number of military advisers in country to 3,000. On April 14, 1979, the Afghan government requested that the USSR send 15 to 20 helicopters with their crews to Afghanistan, and on June 16, the Soviet government responded and sent a detachment of tanks, BMPs, and crews to guard the government in Kabul and to secure the Bagram and Shindand airfields. In response to this request, an airborne battalion, commanded by Lieutenant Colonel A. Lomakin, arrived at the Bagram Air Base on July 7. They arrived without their combat gear, disguised as technical specialists. They were the personal bodyguards for President Taraki. The paratroopers were directly subordinate to the senior Soviet military advisor and did not interfere in Afghan politics. Several leading politicians at the time such as Alexei Kosygin and Andrei Gromyko were against intervention.\n\nAfter a month, the Afghan requests were no longer for individual crews and subunits, but for regiments and larger units. In July, the Afghan government requested that two motorized rifle divisions be sent to Afghanistan. The following day, they requested an airborne division in addition to the earlier requests. They repeated these requests and variants to these requests over the following months right up to December 1979. However, the Soviet government was in no hurry to grant them.\n\nBased on information from the KGB, Soviet leaders felt that Prime Minister Hafizullah Amin's actions had destabilized the situation in Afghanistan. Following his initial coup against and killing of President Taraki, the KGB station in Kabul warned Moscow that Amin's leadership would lead to \"harsh repressions, and as a result, the activation and consolidation of the opposition.\"\n\nThe Soviets established a special commission on Afghanistan, comprising KGB chairman Yuri Andropov, Boris Ponomarev from the Central Committee and Dmitriy Ustinov, the Minister of Defence. In late April 1978, the committee reported that Amin was purging his opponents, including Soviet loyalists, that his loyalty to Moscow was in question and that he was seeking diplomatic links with Pakistan and possibly the People's Republic of China (which at the time had poor relations with the Soviet Union). Of specific concern were Amin's secret meetings with the U.S. chargé d'affaires, J. Bruce Amstutz, which, while never amounting to any agreement between Amin and the United States, sowed suspicion in the Kremlin.\n\nInformation obtained by the KGB from its agents in Kabul provided the last arguments to eliminate Amin. Supposedly, two of Amin's guards killed the former president Nur Muhammad Taraki with a pillow, and Amin, himself, was suspected to be a CIA agent. The latter, however, is still disputed with Amin repeatedly demonstrating friendliness toward the various delegates of the Soviet Union who would arrive in Afghanistan. Soviet General Vasily Zaplatin, a political advisor of Premier Brezhnev at the time, claimed that four of President Taraki's ministers were responsible for the destabilization. However, Zaplatin failed to emphasize this in discussions and was not heard.\n\nBy the late 1970s, rapprochement between the USSR and the US had been well-established, which had led to growing tendencies toward détente and as such, attempts toward disarmament. Of note was the SALT I treaty, which was created to encourage cooperation in matters of nuclear weaponry and technology between the two nations. A second round of talks between Soviet premier Brezhnev and President Carter yielded the SALT II treaty in June 1979. (the United States Senate later failed to ratify the treaty due to the Soviet-Afghan conflict). Conservatives believe that this process was reflective of growing Soviet political influence in the world and that Soviet intervention in Afghanistan in December 1979 was an attempt to preserve, stabilize and militarily intervene on behalf of the communist regime there and thus, their own political standing.\n\nDuring meetings between President Taraki and Soviet leaders in March 1979, the Soviets promised political support and to send military equipment and technical specialists, but upon repeated requests by Taraki for direct Soviet intervention, the leadership adamantly opposed him; reasons included that they would be met with \"bitter resentment\" from the Afghan people, that intervening in another country's civil war would hand a propaganda victory to their opponents, and Afghanistan's overall inconsequential weight in international affairs, in essence realizing they had little to gain by taking over a country with a poor economy, unstable government, and population hostile to outsiders. However, as the situation continued to deteriorate from May–December 1979, Moscow changed its mind on dispatching Soviet troops. The reasons for this complete turnabout are not entirely clear, and several speculative arguments include the grave internal situation and inability for the Afghan government, headed by Amin from 14 September 1979 after a successful coup, to quell the rebellion, the effects of the Iranian Revolution that brought an Islamic theocracy into power, leading to fears that religious fanaticism would spread through Afghanistan and into Soviet Muslim Central Asian republics, and the deteriorating ties with the United States with the failure of Congress to ratify the SALT II treaty and the impression that détente was \"already effectively dead.\"\n\nOn October 31, 1979 Soviet informants to the Afghan Armed Forces who were under orders from the inner circle of advisors under Soviet president Brezhnev, relayed information for them to undergo maintenance cycles for their tanks and other crucial equipment. Meanwhile, telecommunications links to areas outside of Kabul were severed, isolating the capital. With a deteriorating security situation, large numbers of Soviet Airborne Forces joined stationed ground troops and began to land in Kabul on December 25. Simultaneously, Amin moved the offices of the president to the Tajbeg Palace, believing this location to be more secure from possible threats. According to Colonel General Tukharinov and Merimsky, Amin was fully informed of the military movements, having requested Soviet military assistance to northern Afghanistan on December 17. His brother and General Dmitry Chiangov met with the commander of the 40th Army before Soviet troops entered the country, to work out initial routes and locations for Soviet troops.\n\nOn December 27, 1979, 700 Soviet troops dressed in Afghan uniforms, including KGB and GRU special forces officers from the \"Alpha Group\" and \"Zenith Group\", occupied major governmental, military and media buildings in Kabul, including their primary target – the Tajbeg Presidential Palace.\nThat operation began at 19:00 hr., when the KGB-led Soviet \"Zenith Group\" destroyed Kabul's communications hub, paralyzing Afghan military command. At 19:15, the assault on Tajbeg Palace began; as planned, president Hafizullah Amin was killed. Simultaneously, other objectives were occupied (e.g., the Ministry of Interior at 19:15). The operation was fully complete by the morning of December 28, 1979.\n\nThe Soviet military command at Termez, Uzbek SSR, announced on Radio Kabul that Afghanistan had been liberated from Amin's rule. According to the Soviet Politburo they were complying with the 1978 \"Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Good Neighborliness\" and Amin had been \"executed by a tribunal for his crimes\" by the Afghan Revolutionary Central Committee. That committee then elected as head of government former Deputy Prime Minister Babrak Karmal, who had been demoted to the relatively insignificant post of ambassador to Czechoslovakia following the Khalq takeover, and announced that it had requested Soviet military assistance.\n\nSoviet ground forces, under the command of Marshal Sergei Sokolov, entered Afghanistan from the north on December 27. In the morning, the 103rd Guards 'Vitebsk' Airborne Division landed at the airport at Bagram and the deployment of Soviet troops in Afghanistan was underway. The force that entered Afghanistan, in addition to the 103rd Guards Airborne Division, was under command of the 40th Army and consisted of the 108th and 5th Guards Motor Rifle Divisions, the 860th Separate Motor Rifle Regiment, the 56th Separate Airborne Assault Brigade, the 36th Mixed Air Corps. Later on the 201st and 68th Motor Rifle Divisions also entered the country, along with other smaller units. In all, the initial Soviet force was around 1,800 tanks, 80,000 soldiers and 2,000 AFVs. In the second week alone, Soviet aircraft had made a total of 4,000 flights into Kabul. With the arrival of the two later divisions, the total Soviet force rose to over 100,000 personnel.\n\nForeign ministers from 34 Islamic nations adopted a resolution which condemned the Soviet intervention and demanded \"the immediate, urgent and unconditional withdrawal of Soviet troops\" from the Muslim nation of Afghanistan. The UN General Assembly passed a resolution protesting the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan by a vote of 104–18. According to political scientist Gilles Kepel, the Soviet intervention or \"invasion\" was \"viewed with horror\" in the West, considered to be a \"fresh twist\" on the geo-political \"Great Game\" of the 19th Century in which Britain feared that Russia sought access to the Indian Ocean and posed \"a threat to Western security\", explicitly violating \"the world balance of power agreed upon at Yalta\" in 1945.\n\nWeapons supplies were made available through numerous countries; the United States purchased all of Israel's captured Soviet weapons clandestinely, and then funnelled the weapons to the Mujahideen, while Egypt upgraded their own army's weapons, and sent the older weapons to the militants, Turkey sold their World War II stockpiles to the warlords, and the British and Swiss provided Blowpipe missiles and Oerlikon anti-aircraft guns respectively, after they were found to be poor models for their own forces. China provided the most relevant weapons, likely due to their own experience with guerrilla warfare, and kept meticulous record of all the shipments.\n\nThe first phase began with the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan and their first battles with various opposition groups. Soviet troops entered Afghanistan along two ground routes and one air corridor, quickly taking control of the major urban centers, military bases and strategic installations. However, the presence of Soviet troops did not have the desired effect of pacifying the country. On the contrary, it exacerbated a nationalistic feeling, causing the rebellion to spread further. Babrak Karmal, Afghanistan's new president, charged the Soviets with causing an increase in the unrest, and demanded that the 40th Army step in and quell the rebellion, as his own army had proved untrustworthy. Thus, Soviet troops found themselves drawn into fighting against urban uprisings, tribal armies (called \"lashkar\"), and sometimes against mutinying Afghan Army units. These forces mostly fought in the open, and Soviet airpower and artillery made short work of them.\n\nThe war now developed into a new pattern: the Soviets occupied the cities and main axis of communication, while the mujahideen, (which the Soviet Army soldiers called 'Dushman,' meaning 'enemy') divided into small groups, waged a guerrilla war. Almost 80 percent of the country escaped government control. Soviet troops were deployed in strategic areas in the northeast, especially along the road from Termez to Kabul. In the west, a strong Soviet presence was maintained to counter Iranian influence. Incidentally, special Soviet units would have also performed secret attacks on Iranian territory to destroy suspected mujahideen bases, and their helicopters then got engaged in shootings with Iranian jets. Conversely, some regions such as Nuristan, in the northeast, and Hazarajat, in the central mountains of Afghanistan, were virtually untouched by the fighting, and lived in almost complete independence.\n\nPeriodically the Soviet Army undertook multi-divisional offensives into mujahideen-controlled areas. Between 1980 and 1985, nine offensives were launched into the strategically important Panjshir Valley, but government control of the area did not improve. Heavy fighting also occurred in the provinces neighbouring Pakistan, where cities and government outposts were constantly under siege by the mujahideen. Massive Soviet operations would regularly break these sieges, but the mujahideen would return as soon as the Soviets left. In the west and south, fighting was more sporadic, except in the cities of Herat and Kandahar, that were always partly controlled by the resistance.\n\nThe Soviets did not, at first, foresee taking on such an active role in fighting the rebels and attempted to play down their role there as giving light assistance to the Afghan army. However, the arrival of the Soviets had the opposite effect as it incensed instead of pacified the people, causing the mujahideen to gain in strength and numbers. Originally the Soviets thought that their forces would strengthen the backbone of the Afghan army and provide assistance by securing major cities, lines of communication and transportation. The Afghan army forces had a high desertion rate and were loath to fight, especially since the Soviet forces pushed them into infantry roles while they manned the armored vehicles and artillery. The main reason though that the Afghan soldiers were so ineffective was their lack of morale as many of them were not truly loyal to the communist government but simply collecting a paycheck. Once it became apparent that the Soviets would have to get their hands dirty, they followed three main strategies aimed at quelling the uprising. Intimidation was the first strategy, in which the Soviets would use airborne attacks as well as armored ground attacks to destroy villages, livestock and crops in trouble areas. The Soviets would bomb villages that were near sites of guerrilla attacks on Soviet convoys or known to support resistance groups. Local peoples were forced to either flee their homes or die as daily Soviet attacks made it impossible to live in these areas. By forcing the people of Afghanistan to flee their homes, the Soviets hoped to deprive the guerrillas of resources and safe havens. The second strategy consisted of subversion which entailed sending spies to join resistance groups and report information as well as bribing local tribes or guerrilla leaders into ceasing operations. Finally, the Soviets used military forays into contested territories in an effort to root out the guerrillas and limit their options. Classic search and destroy operations were implemented using Mil Mi-24 helicopter gunships that would provide cover for ground forces in armored vehicles. Once the villages were occupied by Soviet forces, inhabitants who remained were frequently interrogated and tortured for information or killed.\n\nTo complement their brute force approach to weeding out the insurgency, the Soviets used KHAD (Afghan secret police) to gather intelligence, infiltrate the mujahideen, spread false information, bribe tribal militias into fighting and organize a government militia. While it is impossible to know exactly how successful the KHAD was in infiltrating mujahideen groups, it is thought that they succeeded in penetrating a good many resistance groups based in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iran. KHAD is thought to have had particular success in igniting internal rivalries and political divisions amongst the resistance groups, rendering some of them completely useless because of infighting. The KHAD had some success in securing tribal loyalties but many of these relationships were fickle and temporary. Often KHAD secured neutrality agreements rather than committed political alignment. The Sarandoy, a KHAD controlled government militia, had mixed success in the war. Large salaries and proper weapons attracted a good number of recruits to the cause, even if they were not necessarily \"pro-communist\". The problem was that many of the recruits they attracted were in fact mujahideen who would join up to procure arms, ammunition and money while also gathering information about forthcoming military operations.\n\nIn 1985, the size of the LCOSF (Limited Contingent of Soviet Forces) was increased to 108,800 and fighting increased throughout the country, making 1985 the bloodiest year of the war. However, despite suffering heavily, the mujahideen were able to remain in the field, mostly because they received thousands of new volunteers daily, and continue resisting the Soviets. \n\nIn an effort to foment unrest and rebellion by the Islamic populations of the Soviet Union, starting in late 1984 Director of CIA William Casey encouraged Mujahedin militants to mount violent sabotage raids inside the Soviet Union, according Robert Gates, Casey's executive assistant and Mohammed Yousef, the Pakistani ISI brigadier general who was the chief for Afghan operations. The rebels began cross-border raids into the Soviet Union in Spring 1985.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, the Afghan resistance movement, assisted by the United States, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom, Egypt, the People's Republic of China and others, contributed to Moscow's high military costs and strained international relations. The U.S. viewed the conflict in Afghanistan as an integral Cold War struggle, and the CIA provided assistance to anti-Soviet forces through the Pakistani intelligence services, in a program called Operation Cyclone.\n\nPakistan's North-West Frontier Province became a base for the Afghan resistance fighters and the Deobandi ulama of that province played a significant role in the Afghan 'jihad', with Madrasa Haqqaniyya becoming a prominent organisational and networking base for the anti-Soviet Afghan fighters. As well as money, Muslim countries provided thousands of volunteer fighters known as \"Afghan Arabs\", who wished to wage jihad against the atheist communists. Notable among them was a young Saudi named Osama bin Laden, whose Arab group eventually evolved into al-Qaeda. Despite their numbers, the contribution has been called a \"curious sideshow to the real fighting,\" with only an estimated 2000 of them fighting \"at any one time\", compared with about a 250,000 Afghan fighters and 125,000 Soviet troops. Their efforts were also sometimes counterproductive as in the March 1989 battle for Jalalabad. Instead of being the beginning of the collapse of the Afghan Communist government forces after their abandonment by the Soviets, the Afghan communists rallied to break the siege of Jalalabad and to win the first major government victory in years, provoked by the sight of a truck filled with dismembered bodies of Communists chopped to pieces after surrendering by radical non-Afghan salafists eager to show the enemy the fate awaiting the infidels. \"This success reversed the government's demoralization from the withdrawal of Soviet forces, renewed its determination to fight on, and allowed it to survive three more years.\" \n\nIn the course of the guerrilla war, leadership came to be distinctively associated with the title of \"commander\". It applied to independent leaders, eschewing identification with elaborate military bureaucracy associated with such ranks as general. As the war produced leaders of reputation, \"commander\" was conferred on leaders of fighting units of all sizes, signifying pride in independence, self-sufficiency, and distinct ties to local communities. The title epitomized Afghan pride in their struggle against a powerful foe. Segmentation of power and religious leadership were the two values evoked by nomenclature generated in the war. Neither had been favored in the ideology of the former Afghan state.\n\nAfghanistan's resistance movement was born in chaos, spread and triumphed chaotically, and did not find a way to govern differently. Virtually all of its war was waged locally by regional warlords. As warfare became more sophisticated, outside support and regional coordination grew. Even so, the basic units of mujahideen organization and action continued to reflect the highly segmented nature of Afghan society.\n\nOlivier Roy estimates that after four years of war, there were at least 4,000 bases from which mujahideen units operated. Most of these were affiliated with the seven expatriate parties headquartered in Pakistan, which served as sources of supply and varying degrees of supervision. Significant commanders typically led 300 or more men, controlled several bases and dominated a district or a sub-division of a province. Hierarchies of organization above the bases were attempted. Their operations varied greatly in scope, the most ambitious being achieved by Ahmad Shah Massoud of the Panjshir valley north of Kabul. He led at least 10,000 trained troopers at the end of the Soviet war and had expanded his political control of Tajik-dominated areas to Afghanistan's northeastern provinces under the Supervisory Council of the North.\n\nRoy also describes regional, ethnic and sectarian variations in mujahideen organization. In the Pashtun areas of the east, south and southwest, tribal structure, with its many rival sub-divisions, provided the basis for military organization and leadership. Mobilization could be readily linked to traditional fighting allegiances of the tribal \"lashkar\" (fighting force). In favorable circumstances such formations could quickly reach more than 10,000, as happened when large Soviet assaults were launched in the eastern provinces, or when the mujahideen besieged towns, such as Khost in Paktia province in July 1983. But in campaigns of the latter type the traditional explosions of manpower—customarily common immediately after the completion of harvest—proved obsolete when confronted by well dug-in defenders with modern weapons. Lashkar durability was notoriously short; few sieges succeeded.\n\nMujahideen mobilization in non-Pashtun regions faced very different obstacles. Prior to the intervention, few non-Pashtuns possessed firearms. Early in the war they were most readily available from army troops or gendarmerie who defected or were ambushed. The international arms market and foreign military support tended to reach the minority areas last. In the northern regions, little military tradition had survived upon which to build an armed resistance. Mobilization mostly came from political leadership closely tied to Islam. Roy contrasts the social leadership of religious figures in the Persian- and Turkic-speaking regions of Afghanistan with that of the Pashtuns. Lacking a strong political representation in a state dominated by Pashtuns, minority communities commonly looked to pious learned or charismatically revered \"pirs\" (saints) for leadership. Extensive Sufi and maraboutic networks were spread through the minority communities, readily available as foundations for leadership, organization, communication and indoctrination. These networks also provided for political mobilization, which led to some of the most effective of the resistance operations during the war.\n\nThe mujahideen favoured sabotage operations. The more common types of sabotage included damaging power lines, knocking out pipelines and radio stations, blowing up government office buildings, air terminals, hotels, cinemas, and so on. In the border region with Pakistan, the mujahideen would often launch 800 rockets per day. Between April 1985 and January 1987, they carried out over 23,500 shelling attacks on government targets. The mujahideen surveyed firing positions that they normally located near villages within the range of Soviet artillery posts, putting the villagers in danger of death from Soviet retaliation. The mujahideen used land mines heavily. Often, they would enlist the services of the local inhabitants, even children.\n\nThey concentrated on both civilian and military targets, knocking out bridges, closing major roads, attacking convoys, disrupting the electric power system and industrial production, and attacking police stations and Soviet military installations and air bases. They assassinated government officials and PDPA members, and laid siege to small rural outposts. In March 1982, a bomb exploded at the Ministry of Education, damaging several buildings. In the same month, a widespread power failure darkened Kabul when a pylon on the transmission line from the Naghlu power station was blown up. In June 1982 a column of about 1,000 young communist party members sent out to work in the Panjshir valley were ambushed within 30 km of Kabul, with heavy loss of life. On September 4, 1985, insurgents shot down a domestic Bakhtar Airlines plane as it took off from Kandahar airport, killing all 52 people aboard.\n\nMujahideen groups used for assassination had three to five men in each. After they received their mission to kill certain government officials, they busied themselves with studying his pattern of life and its details and then selecting the method of fulfilling their established mission. They practiced shooting at automobiles, shooting out of automobiles, laying mines in government accommodation or houses, using poison, and rigging explosive charges in transport.\n\nIn May 1985, the seven principal rebel organizations formed the Seven Party Mujahideen Alliance to coordinate their military operations against the Soviet army. Late in 1985, the groups were active in and around Kabul, unleashing rocket attacks and conducting operations against the communist government.\n\nInternational journalistic perception of the war varied. Major American television journalists were sympathetic to the mujahideen. Most visible was CBS news correspondent Dan Rather who in 1982 accused the Soviets of \"genocide,\" comparing them to Hitler. Rather was embedded with the mujahideen for a 60 Minutes report. In 1987, CBS produced a full documentary special on the war. A retrospective commentary for Niemen Reports criticized mainstream television for biased presentation of a \"Ramboesque struggle of holy warriors against the evil empire.\" \n\n\"Reader's Digest\" took a highly positive view of the mujahideen, a reversal of their usual view of Islamic fighters. The publication praised their martyrdom and their role in entrapping the Soviets in a Vietnam War-style disaster.\n\nAt least some, such as leftist journalist Alexander Cockburn, were unsympathetic, criticizing Afghanistan as \"an unspeakable country filled with unspeakable people, sheepshaggers and smugglers, who have furnished in their leisure hours some of the worst arts and crafts ever to penetrate the occidental world. I yield to none in my sympathy to those prostrate beneath the Russian jackboot, but if ever a country deserved rape it's Afghanistan.\" Robert D. Kaplan on the other hand, thought any perception of mujahideen as \"barbaric\" was unfair: \"Documented accounts of mujahidin savagery were relatively rare and involved enemy troops only. Their cruelty toward civilians was unheard of during the war, while Soviet cruelty toward civilians was common.\" Lack of interest in the mujahideen cause, Kaplan believed, was not the lack of intrinsic interest to be found in a war between a small, poor country and a superpower were a million civilians were killed, but the result of the great difficulty and unprofitability of media coverage. Kaplan note that \"none of the American TV networks had a bureau for a war\", and television cameramen venturing to follow the mujahideen \"trekked for weeks on little food, only to return ill and half starved\". In October 1984 the Soviet ambassador to Pakistan, Vitaly Smirnov, told Agence France Presse \"that journalists traveling with the mujahidin 'will be killed. And our units in Afghanistan will help the Afghan forces to do it.'\" Unlike Vietnam and Lebanon, Afghanistan had \"absolutely no clash between the strange and the familiar\", no \"rock-video quality\" of \"zonked-out GIs in headbands\" or \"rifle-wielding Shiite terrorists wearing Michael Jackson T-shirts\" that provided interesting \"visual materials\" for newscasts.\n\nWhether the introduction of the personal, portable, infrared-homing surface-to-air \"Stinger\" missile in September 1986 was a turning point in the war is disputed.\nMany Western military analysts credit the Stinger with a kill ratio of about 70% and with responsibility for most of the over 350 Soviet or Afghan government aircraft and helicopters downed in the last two years of the war. Some military analysts considered it a \"game changer\" coined the term \"Stinger effect\" to describe it.\nAccording to US Congressman Charlie Wilson who was instrumental in funding the Stingers for the Mujahideen, before the Stinger the Mujahideen never won a set piece battle with the Soviets but after it was introduced, the Mujahideen never again lost one.\n\nHowever, these statistics are based on Mujahedin self-reporting, which is of unknown reliability. Selig Harrison rejects such figures, quoting a Russian general who claims the United States \"greatly exaggerated\" Soviet and Afghan aircraft losses during the war. According to Soviet figures, in 1987-1988, only 35 aircraft and 63 helicopters were destroyed by all causes. The Pakistan Army fired twenty-eight Stingers at enemy aircraft without a single kill.\n\nMany Russian military analysts tend to be dismissive of the impact to the Stinger. According to Alan J. Kuperman, Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev decided to withdraw from Afghanistan a year before the mujahideen fired their first Stinger missiles, motivated by U.S. sanctions, not military losses. The stingers did make an impact at first but within a few months flares, beacons, and exhaust baffles were installed to disorient the missiles, along with night operation and terrain-hugging tactics to prevent the rebels from getting a clear shot. By 1988, Kuperman states, the mujahideen had all but stopped firing them. Another source (Jonathan Steele) states that Stingers forced Soviet helicopters and ground attack planes to bomb from higher altitudes with less accuracy, but did not bring down many more aircraft than Chinese heavy machine guns and other less sophisticated antiaircraft weaponry.\n\nAs early as 1983, Pakistan's Foreign ministry began working with the Soviet Union to provide them an exit from the Afghanistan, initiatives led by Foreign Minister Yaqub Ali Khan and Khurshid Kasuri. Despite an active support for insurgent groups, Pakistanis remained sympathetic to the challenges faced by the Russians in restoring the peace, eventually exploring the idea towards the possibility of setting-up the interim system of government under former monarch Zahir Shah but this was not authorized by President Zia-ul-Haq due to his stance on issue of Durand line. In 1984–85, Foreign Minister Yaqub Ali Khan paid state visits to China, Saudi Arabia, Soviet Union, France, United States and the United Kingdom in order to develop framework for the Geneva Accords which was signed in 1988 between Pakistan and Afghanistan.\n\nThe first step of the Soviet Union's exit strategy was to transfer the burden of fighting the mujahideen to the Afghan armed forces, with the aim of preparing them to operate without Soviet help. During this phase, the Soviet contingent was restricted to supporting the DRA forces by providing artillery, air support and technical assistance, though some large-scale operations were still carried out by Soviet troops.\n\nUnder Soviet guidance, the DRA armed forces were built up to an official strength of 302,000 in 1986. To minimize the risk of a coup d'état, they were divided into different branches, each modeled on its Soviet counterpart. The ministry of defence forces numbered 132,000, the ministry of interior 70,000 and the ministry of state security (KHAD) 80,000. However, these were theoretical figures: in reality each service was plagued with desertions, the army alone suffering 32,000 per year.\n\nThe decision to engage primarily Afghan forces was taken by the Soviets, but was resented by the PDPA, who viewed the departure of their protectors without enthusiasm. In May 1987 a DRA force attacked well-entrenched mujahideen positions in the Arghandab District, but the mujahideen held their ground, and the attackers suffered heavy casualties. In the spring of 1986, an offensive into Paktia Province briefly occupied the mujahideen base at Zhawar only at the cost of heavy losses. Meanwhile, the mujahideen benefited from expanded foreign military support from the United States, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and other Muslim nations. The US tended to favor the Afghan resistance forces led by Ahmed Shah Massoud, and US support for Massoud's forces increased considerably during the Reagan administration in what US military and intelligence forces called \"Operation Cyclone\". Primary advocates for supporting Massoud included two Heritage Foundation foreign policy analysts, Michael Johns and James A. Phillips, both of whom championed Massoud as the Afghan resistance leader most worthy of US support under the Reagan Doctrine.\n\nThe arrival of Mikhail Gorbachev on the scene in 1985 and his 'new thinking' on foreign and domestic policy was likely an important factor in the Soviets' decision to withdraw. Gorbachev had been attempting to remove the Soviet Union from the economic stagnation that had set in, under the leadership of Premier Brezhnev, and reform the Soviet Union's economy and image across the board with Glasnost and Perestroika. Gorbachev had also been attempting to ease cold war tensions by signing the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty in 1987 with the U.S. and withdrawing the troops from Afghanistan whose presence had garnered so much international condemnation. Gorbachev regarded confrontation with China and resulting military build ups on that border as one of Brezhnev's biggest mistakes. Beijing had stipulated that a normalization of relations would have to wait until Moscow withdrew its army from Afghanistan (among other things) and in 1989 the first Sino-Soviet summit in 30 years took place. At the same time, Gorbachev pressured his Cuban allies in Angola to scale down activities and withdraw even though Soviet allies were faring somewhat better there. The Soviets also pulled many of their troops out of Mongolia in 1987 where they were also having a far easier time than in Afghanistan and restrained the Vietnamese invasion of Kampuchea to the point of an all out withdrawal in 1988. This massive withdrawal of Soviet forces from such highly contested areas shows that the Soviet government's decision to leave Afghanistan was based upon a general change in Soviet foreign policy- from that of confrontation to avoidance of conflict wherever possible.\n\nIn the last phase, Soviet troops prepared and executed their withdrawal from Afghanistan, whilst limiting the launching of offensive operations by those who hadn't withdrawn yet.\n\nBy mid-1987 the Soviet Union announced that it would start withdrawing its forces. Sibghatullah Mojaddedi was selected as the head of the Interim Islamic State of Afghanistan, in an attempt to reassert its legitimacy against the Moscow-sponsored Kabul regime. Mojaddedi, as head of the Interim Afghan Government, met with then Vice President of the United States George H. W. Bush, achieving a critical diplomatic victory for the Afghan resistance. Defeat of the Kabul government was their solution for peace. This confidence, sharpened by their distrust of the United Nations, virtually guaranteed their refusal to accept a political compromise.\n\nIn September 1988, Soviet MiG-23 fighters shot down one Pakistani F-16 and two Iranian AH-1J Cobra, who intruded in Afghan airspace.\n\n\"Operation Magistral\", has been one of the final offensive operations undertaken by the Soviets; a successful sweep operation that cleared the road between Gardez and Khost. This operation did not have any lasting effect on the outcome of the conflict nor the soiled political and military status of the Soviets in the eyes of the West, but was a symbolic gesture that marked the end of their widely condemned presence in the country with a victory.\n\nThe first half of the Soviet contingent was withdrawn from May 15 to August 16, 1988 and the second from November 15 to February 15, 1989. In order to ensure a safe passage the Soviets had negotiated ceasefires with local mujahideen commanders, so the withdrawal was generally executed peacefully, except for the operation \"Typhoon\".\n\nGeneral Yazov, the Defense Minister of Soviet Union, ordered the 40th Army to violate the agreement with Ahmed Shah Masood, who commanded a large force in the Panjshir Valley, and attack his relaxed and exposed forces. The Soviet attack was initiated to protect Najibullah, who did not have a cease fire in effect with Masood, and who rightly feared an offensive by Masood's forces after the Soviet withdrawal. General Gromov, the 40th Army Commander, objected to the operation, but reluctantly obeyed the order. \"Typhoon\" began on January 23 and continued for three days. To minimize their own losses the Soviets abstained from close-range fight, instead they used long-range artillery, surface-to-surface and air-to-surface missiles. Numerous civilian casualties were reported. Masood had not threatened the withdrawal to this point, and did not attack Soviet forces after they breached the agreement. Overall, the Soviet attack represented a defeat for Masood's forces, who lost 600 fighters killed and wounded.\n\nAfter the withdrawal of the Soviets the DRA forces were left fighting alone and had to abandon some provincial capitals, and it was widely believed that they would not be able to resist the mujahideen for long. However, in the spring of 1989 DRA forces inflicted a sharp defeat on the mujahideen at Jalalabad.\n\nThe government of President Karmal, a puppet regime, was largely ineffective. It was weakened by divisions within the PDPA and the Parcham faction, and the regime's efforts to expand its base of support proved futile. Moscow came to regard Karmal as a failure and blamed him for the problems. Years later, when Karmal's inability to consolidate his government had become obvious, Mikhail Gorbachev, then General Secretary of the Soviet Communist Party, said:\n\nIn November 1986, Mohammad Najibullah, former chief of the Afghan secret police (KHAD), was elected president and a new constitution was adopted. He also introduced in 1987 a policy of \"national reconciliation,\" devised by experts of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, and later used in other regions of the world. Despite high expectations, the new policy neither made the Moscow-backed Kabul regime more popular, nor did it convince the insurgents to negotiate with the ruling government.\n\nInformal negotiations for a Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan had been underway since 1982. In 1988, the governments of Pakistan and Afghanistan, with the United States and Soviet Union serving as guarantors, signed an agreement settling the major differences between them known as the Geneva Accords. The United Nations set up a special Mission to oversee the process. In this way, Najibullah had stabilized his political position enough to begin matching Moscow's moves toward withdrawal. On July 20, 1987, the withdrawal of Soviet troops from the country was announced. The withdrawal of Soviet forces was planned out by Lt. Gen. Boris Gromov, who, at the time, was the commander of the 40th Army.\n\nAmong other things the Geneva accords identified the US and Soviet non-intervention in the internal affairs of Pakistan and Afghanistan and a timetable for full Soviet withdrawal. The agreement on withdrawal held, and on February 15, 1989, the last Soviet troops departed on schedule from Afghanistan.\n\nAmerican professor Samuel Totten, Australian professor Paul R. Bartrop, scholars from Yale Law School such as W. Michael Reisman and Charles Norchi, as well as scholar Mohammed Kakar, believe that the Afghans were victims of genocide by the Soviet Union. The army of the Soviet Union killed large numbers of Afghans to suppress their resistance. The Soviet forces and their proxies deliberately targeted civilians, particularly in rural areas. Up to 2 million Afghans lost their lives during the Soviet occupation.\n\nIn one notable incident the Soviet Army committed mass killing of civilians in the summer of 1980. In order to separate the mujahideen from the local populations and eliminate their support, the Soviet army killed and drove off civilians, and used scorched earth tactics to prevent their return. They used booby traps, mines, and chemical substances throughout the country. The Soviet army indescriminately killed combatants and noncombatants to ensure submission by the local populations. The provinces of Nangarhar, Ghazni, Lagham, Kunar, Zabul, Qandahar, Badakhshan, Lowgar, Paktia and Paktika witnessed extensive depopulation programmes by the Soviet forces.\n\nThe Soviet forces abducted Afghan women in helicopters while flying in the country in search of mujahideen. In November 1980 a number of such incidents had taken place in various parts of the country, including Laghman and Kama. Soviet soldiers as well as KhAD agents kidnapped young women from the city of Kabul and the areas of Darul Aman and Khair Khana, near the Soviet garrisons, to rape them. Women who were taken and raped by Russian soldiers were considered 'dishonoured' by their families if they returned home. Deserters from the Soviet Army in 1984 also confirmed the atrocities by the Soviet troops on Afghan women and children, stating that Afghan women were being raped.\n\nPresident Jimmy Carter placed a trade embargo against the Soviet Union on shipments of commodities such as grain. This resulted in newly increased tensions between the two nations. On top of recently sparked apprehensions in the West directed toward the tens of thousands of Soviet troops which were of close proximity to oil-rich regions in the Persian Gulf, the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan effectively brought about the end of détente.\n\nThe international diplomatic response was severe, ranging from stern warnings from the UN to a US-led boycott of the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow. The intervention, along with other events, such as the Iranian revolution and the US hostage stand-off that accompanied it, the Iran–Iraq War, the 1982 Lebanon War and the escalating tensions between Pakistan and India, contributed to the volatility of the Middle East and South Asian regions in the 1980s.\n\nThe Non-Aligned Movement was sharply divided between those who believed the Soviet deployment to be a legitimate police action and others who considered the deployment an illegal invasion. Among the Warsaw Pact countries, the intervention was condemned only by Romania. India, a close ally of the Soviet Union, refused to support the Afghan war, though by the end of the hostilities, offered to provide humanitarian assistance to the Afghan government.\n\nThe Afghan Mujahideen were supported by several other countries, with the U.S. and Saudi Arabia offering the greatest financial support. However, private donors and religious charities throughout the Muslim world—particularly in the Persian Gulf—raised considerably more funds for the Afghan rebels than any foreign government; Jason Burke recounts that \"as little as 25 per cent of the money for the Afghan jihad was actually supplied directly by states.\" The first shipment of U.S.weapons intended for the mujahideen reached Pakistan on January 10, 1980, shortly following the Soviet invasion. United States President Carter insisted that what he termed \"Soviet aggression\" could not be viewed as an isolated event of limited geographical importance but had to be contested as a potential threat to US influence in the Persian Gulf region. The US was also worried about the USSR gaining access to the Indian Ocean by coming to an arrangement with Pakistan. (The Soviet air base outside of Kandahar was \"30 minutes flying time by strike aircraft or naval bomber\" to the Persian Gulf according to Robert Kaplan. It \"became the heart of the southernmost concentration of Soviet soldier\" in the 300-year history of Russian expansion in central Asia.)\n\nNational Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski, known for his hardline policies on the Soviet Union, initiated in 1979 a campaign supporting mujahideen in Pakistan and Afghanistan, which was run by Pakistani security services with financial support from the Central Intelligence Agency and Britain's MI6. Years later, in a 1997 CNN/National Security Archive interview, Brzezinski detailed the strategy taken by the Carter administration against the Soviets in 1979:\n\nWe immediately launched a twofold process when we heard that the Soviets had entered Afghanistan. The first involved direct reactions and sanctions focused on the Soviet Union, and both the State Department and the National Security Council prepared long lists of sanctions to be adopted, of steps to be taken to increase the international costs to the Soviet Union of their actions. And the second course of action led to my going to Pakistan a month or so after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, for the purpose of coordinating with the Pakistanis a joint response, the purpose of which would be to make the Soviets bleed for as much and as long as is possible; and we engaged in that effort in a collaborative sense with the Saudis, the Egyptians, the British, the Chinese, and we started providing weapons to the Mujaheddin, from various sources again – for example, some Soviet arms from the Egyptians and the Chinese. We even got Soviet arms from the Czechoslovak communist government, since it was obviously susceptible to material incentives; and at some point we started buying arms for the Mujaheddin from the Soviet army in Afghanistan, because that army was increasingly corrupt.\n\nThe supplying of billions of dollars in arms to the Afghan mujahideen militants was one of the CIA's longest and most expensive covert operations. The CIA provided assistance to the fundamentalist insurgents through the Pakistani secret services, Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), in a program called Operation Cyclone. At least 3 billion in U.S. dollars were funneled into the country to train and equip troops with weapons. Together with similar programs by Saudi Arabia, Britain's MI6 and SAS, Egypt, Iran, and the People's Republic of China, the arms included FIM-43 Redeye, shoulder-fired, antiaircraft weapons that they used against Soviet helicopters. Pakistan's secret service, Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), was used as an intermediary for most of these activities to disguise the sources of support for the resistance.\n\nAlthough some sources have claimed that no Americans had direct contact with the mujahideen, there was recurrent contact between the CIA and Afghan commanders, especially by agent Howard Hart, and Director of Central Intelligence William Casey personally visited training camps on several occasions. There was also direct Pentagon and State Department involvement which led to several major mujahideen being welcomed to the White House for a conference in October 1985. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar declined the opportunity to meet with Ronald Reagan, but Yunus Khalis and Abdul Haq were hosted by the president. CIA agents are also known to have given direct cash payments to Jalaluddin Haqqani.\n\nShortly after the intervention, Pakistan's military ruler General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq called for a meeting of senior military members and technocrats of his military government. At this meeting, General Zia-ul-Haq asked the Chief of Army Staff General Khalid Mahmud Arif and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Muhammad Shariff to lead a specialized civil-military team to formulate a geo-strategy to counter the Soviet aggression. At this meeting, the Director-General of the \"ISI\" at that time, Lieutenant-General Akhtar Abdur Rahman advocated for an idea of covert operation in Afghanistan by arming the Islamic extremist, and was loudly heard saying: \"Kabul must burn! Kabul must burn!\". As for Pakistan, the Soviet war with Islamist mujahideen was viewed as retaliation for the Soviet Union's long unconditional support of regional rival, India, notably during the 1965 and the 1971 wars, which led to the loss of East Pakistan.\n\nAfter the Soviet deployment, Pakistan's military ruler General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq started accepting financial aid from the Western powers to aid the mujahideen. In 1981, following the election of US President Ronald Reagan, aid for the mujahideen through Zia's Pakistan significantly increased, mostly due to the efforts of Texas Congressman Charlie Wilson and CIA officer Gust Avrakotos.\n\nPakistan's \"ISI\" and Special Service Group (SSG) were actively involved in the conflict. The SSG are widely suspected of participating in Operation Hill 3234, near the Pakistani border where nearly 200 suspected SSG personnel were killed in a futile attempt to assault the Soviet held hill.\n\nThe theft of large sums of aid spurred Pakistan's economic growth, but along with the war in general had devastating side effects for that country. The siphoning off of aid weapons, in which the weapons logistics and coordination were put under the Pakistan Navy in the port city of Karachi, contributed to disorder and violence there, while heroin entering from Afghanistan to pay for arms contributed to addiction problems. The Navy went into covert war and coordinated the foreign weapons into Afghanistan, while some of its high-ranking admirals were responsible for storing the weapons in the Navy depot, later coordinated the weapons supply to mujahideen.\n\nIn retaliation for Pakistan's assistance to the insurgents, the KHAD Afghan security service, under leader Mohammad Najibullah, carried out (according to the Mitrokhin Archives and other sources) a large number of operations against Pakistan. In 1987, 127 incidents resulted in 234 deaths in Pakistan. In April 1988, an ammunition depot outside the Pakistani capital of Islamabad was blown up killing 100 and injuring more than 1000 people. The KHAD and KGB were suspected in the perpetration of these acts. Soviet and Afghan fighters and bombers occasionally bombed Pakistani villages along the Pakistani-Afghan border. These attacks are known to have caused at least 300 civilian deaths and extensive damage. Sometimes they got involved in shootings with the Pakistani jets defending the airspace.\n\nPakistan took in millions of Afghan refugees (mostly Pashtun) fleeing the Soviet occupation. Although the refugees were controlled within Pakistan's largest province, Balochistan under then-martial law ruler General Rahimuddin Khan, the influx of so many refugees – believed to be the largest refugee population in the world – spread into several other regions.\n\nAll of this had a heavy impact on Pakistan and its effects continue to this day. Pakistan, through its support for the mujahideen, played a significant role in the eventual withdrawal of Soviet military personnel from Afghanistan.\n\nDuring the Sino-Soviet split, strained relations between China and the USSR resulted in bloody border clashes and mutual backing for the opponent's enemies. China and Afghanistan had neutral relations with each other during the King's rule. When the pro-Soviet Afghan Communists seized power in Afghanistan in 1978, relations between China and the Afghan communists quickly turned hostile. The Afghan pro-Soviet communists supported China's then-enemy Vietnam and blamed China for supporting Afghan anticommunist militants. China responded to the Soviet war in Afghanistan by supporting the Afghan mujahideen and ramping up their military presence near Afghanistan in Xinjiang. China acquired military equipment from America to defend itself from Soviet attack.\n\nThe Chinese People's Liberation Army trained and supported the Afghan mujahideen during the war. The training camps were moved from Pakistan into China itself. Anti-aircraft missiles, rocket launchers and machine guns, valued at hundreds of millions, were given to the mujahideen by the Chinese. Chinese military advisors and army troops were present with the Mujahidin during training.\n\nBetween December 25, 1979, and February 15, 1989, a total of 620,000 soldiers served with the forces in Afghanistan (though there were only 80,000–104,000 serving at one time): 525,000 in the Army, 90,000 with border troops and other KGB sub-units, 5,000 in independent formations of MVD Internal Troops, and police forces. A further 21,000 personnel were with the Soviet troop contingent over the same period doing various white collar and blue collar jobs.\n\nThe total irrecoverable personnel losses of the Soviet Armed Forces, frontier, and internal security troops came to 14,453. Soviet Army formations, units, and HQ elements lost 13,833, KGB sub-units lost 572, MVD formations lost 28, and other ministries and departments lost 20 men. During this period 312 servicemen were missing in action or taken prisoner; 119 were later freed, of whom 97 returned to the USSR and 22 went to other countries.\n\nOf the troops deployed, 53,753 were wounded, injured, or sustained concussion and 415,932 fell sick. A high proportion of casualties were those who fell ill. This was because of local climatic and sanitary conditions, which were such that acute infections spread rapidly among the troops. There were 115,308 cases of infectious hepatitis, 31,080 of typhoid fever, and 140,665 of other diseases. Of the 11,654 who were discharged from the army after being wounded, maimed, or contracting serious diseases, 10,751 men, were left disabled.\n\nMaterial losses were as follows:\n\nThere have also been numerous reports of chemical weapons being used by Soviet forces in Afghanistan, often indiscriminately against civilians. A declassified CIA report from 1982 states that between 1979 and 1982 there were 43 separate chemical weapons attacks which caused more than 3000 deaths. By early 1980, attacks with chemical weapons were reported in \"all areas with concentrated resistance activity\".\n\nSome of the causes of the Soviet Union's withdrawal from Afghanistan leading to the Afghanistan regime's eventual defeat include\n\nCivilian death and destruction from the war was considerable.\nEstimates of Afghan civilian deaths vary from 562,000 to 2,000,000. 5–10 million Afghans fled to Pakistan and Iran, 1/3 of the prewar population of the country, and another 2 million were displaced within the country. In the 1980s, half of all refugees in the world were Afghan.\n\nFelix Ermacora, the UN Special Rapporteur to Afghanistan, said that heavy fighting in combat areas cost the lives of more than 35,000 civilians in 1985, 15,000 in 1986, and around 14,000 in 1987. R.J. Rummel, an analyst of political killings, estimated that Soviet forces were responsible for 250,000 democidal killings during the war and that the government of Afghanistan was responsible for 178,000 democidal killings. There were also a number of reports of large scale executions of hundreds of civilians by Soviet and DRA soldiers. Noor Ahmed Khalidi calculated that 876,825 Afghans were killed during the Soviet invasion. Martin Ewan and Marek Sliwinski estimated the number of war deaths to be much higher, at 1.25 million. However, Siddieq Noorzoy presents an even higher figure of 1.71 million deaths during the Soviet-Afghan war. Anti-government forces were also responsible for some casualties. Rocket attacks on Kabul's residential areas caused more than 4000 civilian deaths in 1987 according to the UN's Ermacora.\n\nAlong with fatalities were 1.2 million Afghans disabled (mujahideen, government soldiers and noncombatants) and 3 million maimed or wounded (primarily noncombatants).\n\nIrrigation systems, crucial to agriculture in Afghanistan's arid climate, were destroyed by aerial bombing and strafing by Soviet or government forces. In the worst year of the war, 1985, well over half of all the farmers who remained in Afghanistan had their fields bombed, and over one quarter had their irrigation systems destroyed and their livestock shot by Soviet or government troops, according to a survey conducted by Swedish relief experts\nThe population of Afghanistan's second largest city, Kandahar, was reduced from 200,000 before the war to no more than 25,000 inhabitants, following a months-long campaign of carpet bombing and bulldozing by the Soviets and Afghan communist soldiers in 1987. Land mines had killed 25,000 Afghans during the war and another 10–15 million land mines, most planted by Soviet and government forces, were left scattered throughout the countryside. The International Committee of the Red Cross estimated in 1994 that it would take 4,300 years to remove all the Soviet land mines in Afghanistan.\n\nA great deal of damage was done to the civilian children population by land mines. A 2005 report estimated 3–4% of the Afghan population were disabled due to Soviet and government land mines. In the city of Quetta, a survey of refugee women and children taken shortly after the Soviet withdrawal found child mortality at 31%, and over 80% of the children refugees to be unregistered. Of children who survived, 67% were severely malnourished, with malnutrition increasing with age.\n\nCritics of Soviet and Afghan government forces describe their effect on Afghan culture as working in three stages: first, the center of customary Afghan culture, Islam, was pushed aside; second, Soviet patterns of life, especially amongst the young, were imported; third, shared Afghan cultural characteristics were destroyed by the emphasis on so-called nationalities, with the outcome that the country was split into different ethnic groups, with no language, religion, or culture in common.\n\nThe Geneva Accords of 1988, which ultimately led to the withdrawal of the Soviet forces in early 1989, left the Afghan government in ruins. The accords had failed to address adequately the issue of the post-occupation period and the future governance of Afghanistan. The assumption among most Western diplomats was that the Soviet-backed government in Kabul would soon collapse; however, this was not to happen for another three years. During this time the Interim Islamic Government of Afghanistan (IIGA) was established in exile. The exclusion of key groups such as refugees and Shias, combined with major disagreements between the different mujahideen factions, meant that the IIGA never succeeded in acting as a functional government.\n\nBefore the war, Afghanistan was already one of the world's poorest nations. The prolonged conflict left Afghanistan ranked 170 out of 174 in the UNDP's \"Human Development Index\", making Afghanistan one of the least developed countries in the world.\n\nOnce the Soviets withdrew, US interest in Afghanistan slowly decreased over the following four years, much of it administered through the DoD Office of Humanitarian Assistance, under the then Director of HA, George M. Dykes III. With the first years of the Clinton Administration in Washington, DC, all aid ceased. The US decided not to help with reconstruction of the country, instead handing the interests of the country over to US allies Saudi Arabia and Pakistan. Pakistan quickly took advantage of this opportunity and forged relations with warlords and later the Taliban, to secure trade interests and routes. The ten years following the war saw much ecological and agrarian destruction—from wiping out the country's trees through logging practices, which has destroyed all but 2% of forest cover country-wide, to substantial uprooting of wild pistachio trees for the exportation of their roots for therapeutic uses, to opium agriculture.\n\nCaptain Tarlan Eyvazov, a soldier in the Soviet forces during the war, stated that the Afghan children's future is destined for war. Eyvazov said, \"Children born in Afghanistan at the start of the war... have been brought up in war conditions, this is their way of life.\" Eyvazov's theory was later strengthened when the Taliban movement developed and formed from orphans or refugee children who were forced by the Soviets to flee their homes and relocate their lives in Pakistan. The swift rise to power, from the young Taliban in 1996, was the result of the disorder and civil war that had warlords running wild because of the complete breakdown of law and order in Afghanistan after the departure of the Soviets.\n\nThe \"CIA World Fact Book\" reported that as of 2004, Afghanistan still owed $8 billion in bilateral debt, mostly to Russia, however, in 2007 Russia agreed to cancel most of the debt.\n\n5.5 million Afghans were made refugees by the war—a full one third of the country's pre-war population—fleeing the country to Pakistan or Iran.\n\nA total of 3.3 million Afghan refugees were housed in Pakistan by 1988, some of whom continue to live in the country up until today. Of this total, about 100,000 were based in the city of Peshawar, while more than 2 million were located in other parts of the northwestern province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (then known as the North-West Frontier Province). At the same time, close to two million Afghans were living in Iran. Over the years Pakistan and Iran have imposed tighter controls on refugees which have resulted in numerous returnees. In 2012 Pakistan banned extensions of visas to foreigners. Afghan refugees have also settled in India and became Indian citizens over time. Some also made their way into North America, the European Union, Australia, and other parts of the world. The photo of Sharbat Gula placed on \"National Geographic\" cover in 1985 became a symbol both of the 1980s Afghan conflict and of the refugee situation.\n\nAccording to scholars Rafael Reuveny and Aseem Prakash, the war contributed to the fall of the Soviet Union by undermining the image of the Red Army as invincible, undermining Soviet legitimacy, and by creating new forms of political participation.\n\nThe war created a cleavage between the party and the military in the Soviet Union where the efficacy of using the Soviet military to maintain the USSR's overseas interests was now put in doubt. In the non-Russian republics, those interested in independence were emboldened by the army's defeat. In Russia the war created cleavage between the party and the military, changing the perceptions of leaders about the ability to put down anti-Soviet resistance militarily (as it had in Czechoslovakia in 1968, Hungary in 1956, and East Germany in 1953). As the war was viewed as \"a Russian war fought by non Russians against Afghans\", outside of Russia it undermined the legitimacy of the Soviet Union as a trans-national political union. The war created new forms of political participation, in the form of new civil organizations of war veterans (Afghansti) which weakened the political hegemony of the communist party. It also started the transformation of the press/media which continued under glasnost.\n\nThe war did not end with the withdrawal of the Soviet Army. The Soviet Union left Afghanistan deep in winter, with intimations of panic among Kabul officials. The Afghan mujahideen were poised to attack provincial towns and cities and eventually Kabul, if necessary. Najibullah's government, though failing to win popular support, territory, or international recognition, was able to remain in power until 1992.\n\nCivil war between the Afghan army and mujahideen continued and about 400,000 Afghan civilians had lost their lives in the chaos and civil war of the 1990s. Ironically, until demoralized by the defections of its senior officers, the Afghan Army had achieved a level of performance it had never reached under direct Soviet tutelage. Kabul had achieved a stalemate that exposed the mujahideen's weaknesses, political and military. But for nearly three years, while Najibullah's government successfully defended itself against mujahideen attacks, factions within the government had also developed connections with its opponents.\n\nAccording to Russian publicist Andrey Karaulov, the main trigger for Najibullah losing power was Russia's refusal to sell oil products to Afghanistan in 1992 for political reasons (the new Yeltsin government did not want to support the former communists), which effectively triggered an embargo. The defection of General Abdul Rashid Dostam and his Uzbek militia, in March 1992, further undermined Najibullah's control of the state. In April, Najibullah and his communist government fell to the mujahideen, who replaced Najibullah with a new governing council for the country.\n\nGrain production declined an average of 3.5% per year between 1978 and 1990 due to sustained fighting, instability in rural areas, prolonged drought, and deteriorated infrastructure. Soviet efforts to disrupt production in rebel-dominated areas also contributed to this decline. During the withdrawal of Soviet troops, Afghanistan's natural gas fields were capped to prevent sabotage. Restoration of gas production has been hampered by internal strife and the disruption of traditional trading relationships following the dissolution of the Soviet Union.\n\nFollowing the Soviet withdrawal, some of the foreign volunteers (including Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda) and young Afghan refugees, went on to continue violent jihad in Afghanistan, Pakistan and abroad. Some of the thousands of Afghan Arabs who left Afghanistan went on to become \"capable leaders, religious ideologues and military commanders,\" who played \"vital roles\" as insurgents or terrorists in places such as Algeria, Egypt, Bosnia and Chechnya. Tens of thousands of Afghan refugee children in Pakistan were educated in madrasses \"in a spirit of conservatism and religious rigor\", and went on to fill the ranks and leadership of the Taliban in Afghanistan and Sipah-e-Sahaba in Pakistan. The groups embodied new varieties of Political Islam – \"Salafi jihadism\" among the foreign volunteers, and a \"hybrid\" Deobandi jihadism among the madrassa-educated.\n\nAs many as 35,000 non-Afghan Muslim fighters went to Afghanistan between 1982 and 1992. Thousands more came and did not fight but attended schools with \"former and future fighters\".\nThese \"Afghan-Arabs\" had a marginal impact on the jihad against the Soviets, but a much greater effect after the Soviets left and in other countries. (After the Soviets left, training continued and \"tens of thousands\" from \"some 40 nations\" came to prepare for armed insurrections \"to bring the struggle back home\". )\n\nThe man instrumental not only in generating international support but also in inspiring these volunteers to travel to Afghanistan for the jihad was a Palestinian Muslim Brotherhood cleric, Abdullah Azzam. Touring the Muslim world and the United States, he inspired young Muslims with stories of miraculous deeds, such as mujahideen who defeated vast columns of Soviet troops virtually single-handedly, angels riding into battle on horseback, and falling bombs intercepted by birds.\n\nWhen back in the volunteer camps and training centers that he helped set up around Peshawar, Pakistan, Azzam exercised a \"strong influence.\" He preached the importance of jihad: \"those who believe that Islam can flourish [and] be victorious without Jihad, fighting, and blood are deluded and have no understanding of the nature of this religion\"; of not compromising: \"Jihad and the rifle alone: no negotiations, no conferences and no dialogues\"; and that Afghanistan was only the beginning: jihad would \"remain an individual obligation\" for Muslims until all other formerly-Muslim lands—\"Palestine, Bukhara, Lebanon, Chad, Eritrea, Somalia, the Philippines, Burma, South Yemen, Tashkent, Andalusia\"—were reconquered.\n\nThe volunteers also influenced each other. Many \"unexpected\" religious-political ideas resulted from the \"cross-pollination\" during the \"great gathering\" of Islamists from dozens of countries in the camps and training centers. One in particular was a \"variant of Islamist ideology based on armed struggle and extreme religious vigour\", known as Salafi jihadism.\n\nWhen the Soviet Union fell shortly after their withdrawal from Afghanistan, the volunteers were \"exultant\", believing that—in the words of Osama bin Laden—the credit for \"the dissolution of the Soviet Union ... goes to God and the mujahideen in Afghanistan ... the US had no mentionable role,\" (Soviet economic troubles and United States aid to mujahideen notwithstanding). They eagerly sought to duplicate their jihad in other countries.\n\nThree such countries were Bosnia, Algeria and Egypt. In Bosnia the Salafi jihadist Afghan Arabs fought against Bosnian Serb and Croat militias but failed to establish a Salafi state. In Algeria and Egypt thousand of volunteers returned and fought but were even less successful. In Algeria Salafi jihadist helped lead and fight for the GIA, deliberately killing thousands of civilians. In Egypt the Al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya killed more than a thousand people between 1990 and 1997 but also failed to overthrow the government.\n\nAmong the approximately three million Afghan refugees in Pakistan, thousands of children were educated in madrasa boarding schools financed by aid from the US and Gulf monarchies. Since that aid was distributed according to the conservative Islamist ideological criteria of Pakistan's President Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq and Saudi Arabia (and ignoring native Afghan traditions), the schools were part of networks of the favored Hizb-e-Islami party and the Pakistan Deobandi. (Iran provided similar help to Shia Islamist groups and punishments to moderate Shia nationalist Afghans.)\n\nCut off from families and local traditions, the madrassa students were \"educated to put Deobandi doctrines into action through obedience to the fatwas produced in the madrasses in a spirit of conservatism and religious rigor.\" As the Afghan students came of age, they formed \"the mainstay\" of the Taliban in Afghanistan and of the anti-Shia Sipah-e-Sahaba Sunni terror group in Pakistan. But unlike the traditionally non-violent Deobandi, this \"hybrid movement\" embraced the violence of jihad, and unlike the Islamists of Hizb-e-Islami they were uninterested in \"islamizing modernity\" of western knowledge or in western knowledge at all. The culture of religious purification, absolute obedience to leaders, and disinterest in anything else, is thought to explain the willingness of Hizb-e-Islami-trained soldiers to bombard Kabul with artillery and kill thousands of civilians, reassured by their commander that the civilians they killed would \"be rewarded\" in heaven if they were \"good Muslims\".\nFrom 2008 to 2014 \"thousands of Shia\" have been killed by Sunni extremists according to Human Rights Watch.\n\nBlowback, or unintended consequences of funding the mujahideen, was said to have come to the United States in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing and the September 11 attacks. In the 1993 bombing, all of the participants in the bombing \"either had served in Afghanistan or were linked to a Brooklyn-based fund-raising organ for the Afghan jihad\" that was later \"revealed to be al-Qaeda's de facto U.S. headquarters\". Principals in the 2001 attack—Osama Bin Laden, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed — had both fought in Afghanistan, and bin Laden was a lieutenant of Abdullah Azzam. His group al-Qaeda, returned to Afghanistan to take refuge with the Taliban after being expelled from Sudan. Before the 9/11 attack, al-Qaeda had bombed two U.S. embassies in Africa in 1998, and nearly sank the USS \"Cole\" in Yemen in 2000. However, no direct U.S. aid to bin Laden or any of his affiliates has ever been established.\n\nCommemorating the intervention of December 25, 1979, in December 2009, veterans of the Soviet war in Afghanistan were honoured by the Duma or Parliament of the Russian Federation. On December 25, the lower house of the parliament defended the Soviet war in Afghanistan on the 30th anniversary of its start, and praised the veterans of the conflict. Differing assessments of the war \"mustn't erode the Russian people's respect for the soldiers who honestly fulfilled their duty in implementing tasks to combat international terrorism and religious extremists\".\n\nDuma member Semyon Bagdasarov (Just Russia) advocated that Russia had to reject Western calls for stronger assistance to the US-led ISAF-coalition in Afghanistan and also had to establish contacts with the \"anti-Western forces\"; the Taliban, in case they regain power.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11677564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11677564", "title": "Stott", "text": "Stott\n\nThe Stotts were a family of architects from Oldham, North West England, of Scottish descent who specialised in the design of cotton mills. James Stott was the father, Joseph and his elder brother Abraham Stott had rival practices, and in later years did not communicate. Their children continue their practices.\n\nJoseph Stott was born on 25 October 1836 in Oldham, the third son of James Stott and Mary Henthorn. In the Oldham archives are papers relating to mills designed by Joseph and his practice.\n\n\nThe only son of Joseph Stott, George was born in Oldham in 1876. He was educated at Mr Binns' Highfield Academy and Manchester Grammar School. On Joseph Stott's death in 1894 George Stott took over his father's practice, trading as Joseph Stott and Son.\nGeorge Stott adopted the triple brick arch system of flooring. His mills are known for their proportions and the meticulous detail of their facades. Manor and Kent Mills in Chadderton are two good examples. Another two are the Pine Mill and the Elm Mill (Newby). Stott designed mills in Ramleh Egypt and Brazil. He was a donor to the British Conservative Party. He died in December 1936.\nAbraham Henthorn Stott was born on 25 April 1822 in the parish of Crompton. He served a seven-year apprenticeship with Sir Charles Barry, the architect of the Houses of Parliament and Manchester Art Gallery. He returned to Oldham in 1847 and founded the architectural practice of A H Stott and Sons, and was known for his innovative structural engineering. His brother Joseph Stott started his career here before leaving to start his own practice. After his retirement, the practice was renamed Stott and Sons. Three of his 9 children worked in the practice.\n\nPhilip Sydney Stott (Sydney Stott) was the third son of A H Stott. He is regarded as Oldham's greatest architect. He established his own practice, P.S.Stott, in 1883. He was known as Sydney Stott until 1920, but adopted the title Sir Philip Stott on being made a baronet. He benefitted from the innovations made by his father and Edward Potts, another Oldham architect. His first mill design was for Chadderton Mill in 1885. Sydney designed 22 mills in Oldham and 55 elsewhere in Lancashire. His last design was the Maple No 2 in 1915, The mills accounted for 44% of the increase in the spinning capacity of the county between 1887 and 1925, and for 40% of the new spindles laid down in Oldham between 1887 and 1914. His mills accounted for 9 million spindles. He relied on the triple brick arches supported on steel beams favoured by George Stott, rather than concrete.\n\nStott was a Conservative and a freemason, he was president of the Oldham Lyceum and played rugby for Oldham Football Club. He held several directorships in the cotton-spinning industry. He moved to Stanton Court, Gloucestershire (near Broadway, Worcestershire), in 1913, where he became a Justice of the Peace and, in 1925, High Sheriff of Gloucester. He died in 1937.\nJames was a younger brother of Abraham Henthorn Stott, the son of James Stott. He set up a heating, ventilation, and catering equipment business that trades as \"Stotts of Oldham\".\n\nAbraham Stott and Son, set up by Abraham Stott, a cousin of Abraham Henthorn Stott, was a cotton-spinning company operating Osborne mill. Abraham Stott had a reputation for fairness and was nicknamed 'Honest Abe'. He invested in a clipper ship that traded with the confederate forces during the cotton famine; it was captured by the Union forces.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43631775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43631775", "title": "Tamchen", "text": "Tamchen\n\nTamchen is an ancient Maya city, located in the Yucatán Peninsula, Mexico. It was discovered in August 2014, along with Lagunita, by Ivan Sprajc, associate professor at the Research Center of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts, and his team, after they reviewed aerial photographs of the area.\n"}
{"id": "9294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9294", "title": "The Evil Dead", "text": "The Evil Dead\n\nThe Evil Dead is a 1981 American supernatural horror film written and directed by Sam Raimi and executive produced by Raimi and Bruce Campbell, who also stars alongside Ellen Sandweiss and Betsy Baker. The film focuses on five college students vacationing in an isolated cabin in a remote wooded area. After they find an audio tape that releases a legion of demons and spirits, members of the group suffer from demonic possession, leading to increasingly gory mayhem. Raimi and the cast produced the short film \"Within the Woods\" as a \"prototype\" to build the interest of potential investors, which secured Raimi US$90,000 to produce \"The Evil Dead\". The film was shot on location in a remote cabin located in Morristown, Tennessee, in a difficult filming process that proved extremely uncomfortable for the cast and crew.\n\nThe low-budget horror film attracted the interest of producer Irvin Shapiro, who helped screen the film at the 1982 Cannes Film Festival. Horror author Stephen King gave a rave review of the film, which helped convince New Line Cinema to serve as its distributor. Though a modest commercial success in the United States, grossing just $2.4 million, it was a bigger success internationally, grossing more than $27 million for a worldwide gross of $29.4 million. Both early and later critical reception were universally positive and in the years since its release, \"The Evil Dead\" has developed a reputation as one of the largest cult films and has been cited among the greatest horror films of all time. \"The Evil Dead\" launched the careers of Campbell and Raimi, who would collaborate on several films together throughout the years, including Raimi's \"Spider-Man\" trilogy.\n\nThe film has spawned a media franchise, beginning with two sequels written and directed by Raimi, \"Evil Dead II\" (1987) and \"Army of Darkness\" (1992), as well as video games, comic books, and a television series. The film's protagonist Ash Williams (Campbell) is regarded as a cult icon. The fourth film, serving as reboot, remake and sequel, was titled \"Evil Dead\" and was released in 2013. Raimi co-produced the film alongside Campbell and the franchise producer, Robert Tapert. As with the other films, the follow-up television series \"Ash vs Evil Dead\" was created and produced by Sam and Ivan Raimi, with Campbell also executive producing.\n\nFive Michigan State University students—Ash Williams, his girlfriend, Linda; Ash's sister, Cheryl; their friend Scott; and his girlfriend Shelly—are vacationing at an isolated cabin in rural Tennessee. On their first night there, Cheryl hears a faint, demonic voice telling her to \"join us\" just before her hand seems to become possessed and draw a picture of a book with a deformed face on its cover. Shaken and confused, she decides not to mention the incident to the others.\n\nWhen the trapdoor to the cellar mysteriously flies open during dinner, Ash and Scott go down to investigate and find the \"Naturan Demanto\", a Sumerian version of the Egyptian \"Book of the Dead\", along with a tape recorder belonging to the archaeologist who owned it. Scott plays plays a tape of the archaeologist reciting a series of incantations that resurrect a mysterious, demonic entity. Agitated, Cheryl goes outside to investigate strange noises she hears. In the woods, she is raped by demonically possessed trees. When she returns to the cabin bruised and anguished, Ash agrees to take her into town for the night. However, they soon discovers that the bridge to the cabin has been destroyed. Back at the cabin, Ash listens to more of the tape, learning that the only way to kill the entity is to dismember the body when it possesses a host. Cheryl succumbs to the entity and attacks the others, stabbing Linda in the ankle with a pencil before Scott is able to lock her in the cellar.\n\nShelly becomes possessed as well, forcing Scott to chop up her body with an axe and bury the remains. Shaken by the experience, he leaves to find a way back to town but soon returns mortally wounded; he dies while warning Ash that the trees will not let them escape alive. When Ash goes to check on Linda, he is horrified to find that she too has become possessed by the demon. She attacks him, but he stabs her with a Sumerian dagger. Unwilling to dismember her, he buries her instead. But when she revives and attacks him, he is forced to decapitate her. \n\nBack in the cabin, Ash is attacked by Cheryl—who has escaped the cellar—and the reanimated Scott. Ash manages to throw the Naturan Demanto into the fireplace. As the book burns, Scott and Cheryl gruesomely decompose, leaving the disgusted Ash covered in their blood and entrails. As day breaks, Ash stumbles outside. While still standing outside, the entity attacks him from behind, causing Ash to turn and scream.\n\n\nRaimi and Campbell grew up together, and have been friends from an early age. The duo directed several low-budget Super 8 mm film projects together. Several were comedies, including \"Clockwork\" and \"It's Murder!\". Shooting a suspense scene in \"It's Murder!\" inspired Raimi to approach a career in the horror genre, and after researching horror cinema at drive-in theaters, Raimi was set on directing a horror film. The idea was to shoot a short film first, which would attract the interest of producers, and then use the money gained from that to shoot a full-length project. The short film that Raimi created was called \"Within the Woods\". It was produced for $1,600, but for \"The Evil Dead\", Raimi needed over $100,000.\n\nTo generate funds for the film, Raimi approached Phil Gillis, a lawyer to one of his friends. Raimi showed him \"Within the Woods\", and although Gillis was not impressed by the short film, he offered Raimi legal advice on how to produce \"The Evil Dead\". With his advice in mind, Raimi asked a variety of people for donations, and even eventually \"begged\" some. Campbell had to ask several of his own family members, and Raimi asked every individual he thought might be interested. He eventually raised enough money to produce a full-length film, though not the full amount he originally wanted.\n\nWith enough money to produce the film, Raimi and Campbell set out to make what was then titled \"Book of the Dead\", a name inspired by Raimi's interest in the fiction of H. P. Lovecraft. The film was supposed to be a remake of \"Within the Woods\", with higher production values and a full-length running time. Raimi turned 20 just before shooting began, and he considered the project his \"rite of passage\".\n\nRaimi asked for help and assistance from several of his friends and past collaborators to make \"The Evil Dead\". Campbell was cast as Ash Williams, the main character. To acquire more actors for the project, Raimi put an ad in \"The Detroit News\". Betsy Baker was one of the actresses who responded, and Ellen Sandweiss, who appeared in \"Within the Woods\", was also cast. The crew consisted almost entirely of Raimi and Campbell's friends and family. The make-up adviser for \"Within the Woods\", Tom Sullivan, was brought on to compose the effects after expressing a positive reaction to working with Raimi.\n\nWithout any formal assistance from location scouts, the cast had to find filming locations on their own. The crew initially attempted to shoot the film in Raimi's hometown of Royal Oak, Michigan, but instead chose Morristown, Tennessee, as it was the only state that expressed enthusiasm for the project. The crew quickly found a remote cabin located several miles away from any other buildings. During pre-production, the 13 crew members had to stay at the cabin, leading to several people sleeping in the same room. The living conditions were notoriously difficult, with several arguments breaking out between crew members.\n\nSteve Frankel was the only carpenter on set, which made him the art direction's sole contributor. For exterior shots, Frankel had to produce several elaborate props with a circular saw. Otherwise, the cabin mostly remained the way it was found during production. The cabin had no plumbing, but phone lines were connected to it.\n\nBecause of the crew's inexperience, filming was a \"comedy of errors\". The first day of filming led to them getting lost in the woods during a scene shot on a bridge. Several crew members were injured during the shoot, and because of the cabin's remoteness, securing medical assistance was difficult. One notably gruesome moment on set involved ripping off Baker's eyelashes during removal of her face-mask. Because of the low budget, contact lenses as thick as glass had to be applied to the actors to achieve the \"demonic eyes\" effect. The lenses took 10 minutes to apply, and could only be left on for about 15 minutes because eyes could not \"breathe\" with them applied. Campbell later commented that to get the effect of wearing these lenses, they had to put \"Tupperware\" over their eyes.\n\nRaimi developed a sense of \"mise en scène\", coming up with ideas for scenes at a fast rate. He had drawn several crude illustrations to help him break down the flow of scenes. The crew was surprised when Raimi began using dutch angles during shots to build atmosphere during scenes. To accommodate Raimi's style of direction, several elaborate, low-budget rigs had to be built, since the crew could not afford a camera dolly. One involved the \"vas-o-cam\", which relied on a mounted camera that was slid down long wooden platforms to create a more fluid sense of motion.\n\nA camera trick used to emulate a Steadicam inexpensively was the \"shaky cam\", which involved mounting the camera to a piece of wood and having two camera operators sprint around the swamp.\n\nRaimi had been a big fan of \"The Three Stooges\" franchise during his youth, and it inspired him to use \"Fake Shemps\" during production. In any scene that required a background shot of a character, he would use another actor as a substitute to save time if the original actor was preoccupied. During a close-up involving Richard DeManicor's hand opening a curtain, Raimi used his own hand in the scene since it was more convenient. His brother Ted Raimi was used as a substitute in many scenes when the original actor was either busy or preoccupied.\n\nRaimi famously enjoyed \"torturing\" his actors. Raimi believed that to capture pain and anger in his actors, he had to abuse them a little at times, saying, \"if everyone was in extreme pain and misery, that would translate into a horror.\" Producer Robert Tapert agreed with Raimi, commenting that he \"enjoyed when an actor bleeds.\" While shooting a scene with Campbell running down a hill, Campbell tripped and injured his leg. Raimi enjoyed poking Campbell's injury with a stick he found in the woods. Because of the copious amounts of blood in the film, the crew produced gallons of fake blood with karo syrup. It took Campbell hours to remove the sticky substance from himself. Several actors had inadvertently been stabbed or thrown into objects during production.\n\nOn the last few days on set, the conditions had become so poor that the crew began burning furniture to stay warm. Since only exterior shots needed to be filmed at that point, they burned nearly every piece of furniture left. Several actors went days without showering, and because of the freezing conditions, several caught colds and other illnesses. Campbell later described the filming process as nearly \"twelve weeks of mirthless exercise in agony\", though he allowed that he did manage to have fun while on set. On January 23, 1980, filming was finished and almost every crew member left the set to return home, with Campbell staying with Raimi. While looking over the footage that had been shot, Raimi discovered that a few pick-ups were required to fill in missing shots. Four days of re-shoots were then done to complete the film. The final moment involved Campbell having \"monster-guts\" splattered on him in the basement.\n\nAfter the extensive filming process, Raimi had a \"mountain of footage\" that he had to put together. He chose a Detroit editing association, where he met Edna Paul, to cut the film. Paul's assistant was Joel Coen of the Coen brothers, who helped with the film's editing. Paul edited a majority of the film, although Coen notably edited the shed sequence. Coen had been inspired by Raimi's \"Within the Woods\" and liked the idea of producing a prototype film to help build the interest of investors. Joel used the concept to help make \"Blood Simple\" with his brother Ethan, and he and Raimi became friends following the editing process.\n\nThe film's first cut ran at around 117 minutes, which Campbell called an impressive achievement in light of the 65-minute length of the screenplay. It was then edited down to a more marketable 85 minutes. Raimi was inspired by the fact that Brian De Palma was editing his own film \"Blow Out\" with John Travolta at the same sound facility. One of the most intricate moments during editing was the stop-motion sequence where the corpses \"melted\", which took hours to cut properly. The film had unique sounds that required extensive recording from the crew. Several sounds were not recorded properly during shooting, which meant the effects had to be redone in the editing rooms. Dead chickens were stabbed to replicate the sounds of mutilated flesh, and Campbell had to scream into a microphone for several hours.\n\nMuch like \"Within the Woods\", \"The Evil Dead\" needed to be blown up to 35mm, then the industry standard, to be played at movie theaters. The relatively large budget made this a much simpler process with \"The Evil Dead\" than it had been with the short film.\n\nWith the film completed, Raimi and the crew decided to celebrate with a \"big premiere\". They chose to screen the film at Detroit's Redford Theatre, which Campbell had often visited as a child. Raimi opted to have the most theatrical premiere possible, using custom tickets and wind tracks set in the theater, and ordering ambulances outside the theater to build atmosphere. The premiere setup was inspired by horror director William Castle, who would often attempt to scare his audiences by using gimmicks. Local turnout for the premiere exceeded the cast's expectations, with a thousand patrons showing up. The audiences responded enthusiastically to the premiere, which led to Raimi's idea of \"touring\" the film to build hype.\n\nRaimi showed the film to anyone willing to watch it, booking meetings with distribution agents and anyone with experience in the film industry. Eventually Raimi came across Irvin Shapiro, the man who was responsible for the distribution of George A. Romero's \"Night of the Living Dead\" and other famous horror films. Upon first viewing the film, he joked that while it \"wasn't \"Gone with the Wind\"\", it had commercial potential, and he expressed an interest in distributing it. It was his idea not to use the then-title \"Book of the Dead\", because it made the film sound boring. Raimi brainstormed several ideas, eventually going with \"The Evil Dead\", deemed the \"least worst\" title. Shapiro also advised distributing the film worldwide to garner a larger income, though it required a further financial investment by Raimi, who managed to scrape together what little money he had.\nShapiro was a founder of the Cannes Film Festival, and allowed Raimi to screen the film at the 1982 festival out of competition. Stephen King was present at its screening and gave the film a rave review. \"USA Today\" released an article about King's favorite horror films; the author cited \"The Evil Dead\" as his fifth favorite film of the genre. The film severely affected King, who commented that while watching the film at Cannes, he was \"registering things [he] had never seen in a movie before\". He became one of the film's largest supporters during the early efforts to find a distributor, eventually describing it as the \"most ferociously original film of the year\", a quote used in the film's promotional pieces. King's comments attracted the interest of critics, who otherwise would likely have dismissed the low-budget thriller.\n\nThe film's press attracted the attention of British film distribution agent Stephen Woolley. Though he considered the film a big risk, Woolley decided to take on the job of releasing the film in the United Kingdom. The film was promoted in an unconventional manner for a film of its budget, receiving marketing on par with that of larger budget films. Dozens of promotional pieces, including film posters and trailers, were showcased in the UK, heavy promotion rarely expended on such a low-budget film. Woolley was impressed by Raimi, whom he called \"charming\", and was an admirer of the film, which led to his taking more risks with the film's promotion than he normally would have.\n\n\"Fangoria\" started covering the film in late 1982, writing several articles about the film's long production history. Early critical reception at the time was very positive, and along with \"Fangoria\", King, and Shapiro's approval, the film generated an impressive amount of interest before its commercial premiere. New Line Cinema, one of the distributors interested in the film, negotiated an agreement to distribute it domestically. The film had several \"sneak previews\" before its commercial release, including screenings in New York and Detroit. Audience reception at both screenings was widely enthusiastic, and interest was built for the film to such an extent that wider distribution was planned. New Line Cinema wrote Raimi a check large enough to pay off all the investors, and decided to release the film in a unique manner: simultaneously into both cinemas and onto VHS, with substantial domestic promotion.\n\nBecause of its large promotional campaign, the film performed above expectations at the box office. It grossed a total of $2,400,000 in the United States, nearly eight times its production budget. However, the initial domestic gross was described as \"disappointing.\" It opened in 15 theaters and grossed $108,000 in its opening weekend. Word of mouth later spread, and the film became a \"sleeper hit\", making over $600,000 domestically and nearly $27,000,000 overseas, for a worldwide gross of $29,400,000. In its first week of video release in 1983 two years later, the film made £100,000 in the UK. It quickly became that week's best-selling video release, and later became the year's best-selling video in the UK, out-grossing large-budget horror releases such as \"The Shining\". Its impressive European performance was chalked up to its heavy promotion there and the more open-minded nature of European audiences.\n\nThe film's release was met with controversy. Raimi made the film as gruesome as possible with neither interest in nor fear of censorship, which led to the film's receiving an X rating and being named a \"video nasty\". Films with this label were quite violent and disturbing, and the rating was often held by pornographic and other X-rated films. While \"The Evil Dead\" was not pornographic in nature, it was considered one of the most violent films of its time, and censors had issues with the film's content, which impacted some of its commercial potential. The film was called the \"number one nasty\" in a nod to its status as both a nasty and the year's best-selling video release. Writer Bruce Kawin described \"The Evil Dead\" as one of the most notorious splatter films of its day, along with \"Cannibal Holocaust\" and \"I Spit on Your Grave\". The film was and is still banned either theatrically or on video in some countries.\n\nThe first VHS release of \"The Evil Dead\" was by Thorn EMI in 1983, and Thorn's successor company HBO / Cannon Video later repackaged the film. Congress Video, a company notable for public domain films, issued its version in 1989.\n\nThe resurgence of \"The Evil Dead\" in the home-video market came through two companies that restored the film from its negatives and issued special editions in 1998: Anchor Bay Entertainment on VHS, and Elite Entertainment on laserdisc. Anchor Bay was responsible for the film's first DVD release in 1999, and between them, Elite and Anchor Bay have released six different DVD versions of \"The Evil Dead\", most notably the 2002 \"Book Of The Dead\" edition, packaged in a latex replica of the \"Necronomicon\" sculpted by Tom Sullivan and the 2007 three disc \"Ultimate Edition\" which contained the widescreen and original full frame versions of the movie. The film's high-definition debut was in a 2010 Blu-ray.\n\nLionsgate Films released a 4K Ultra HD Blu-ray edition of \"The Evil Dead\" on October 9, 2018.\n\nUpon its release, contemporary critical opinion was largely positive. Bob Martin, editor of \"Fangoria\", reviewed the film before its formal premiere and proclaimed that it \"might be the exception to the usual run of low-budget horror films\". The \"Los Angeles Times\" called the film an \"instant classic\", proclaiming it as \"probably the grisliest well-made movie ever.\" In a 1982 review, staff from the trade magazine \"Variety\" wrote that the film \"emerges as the \"ne plus ultra\" of low-budget gore and shock effect\", commenting that the \"powerful\" and inventive camerawork was key to creating a sense of dread.\n\nBritish press for the film was positive; Kim Newman of \"Monthly Film Bulletin\", Richard Cook of \"NME\", and Julian Petley of \"Film and Filming\" all gave the film good reviews during its early release. Petley and Cook compared the film to other contemporary horror films, writing that the film expressed more imagination and \"youthful enthusiasm\" than an average horror film. Cook described the camera work by Raimi as \"audacious\", stating that the film's visceral nature was greatly helped by the style of direction. Woolley, Newman, and several critics complimented the film for its unexpected use of black comedy, which elevated the film above its genre's potential trappings. All three critics compared the film to the surrealistic work of Georges Franju and Jean Cocteau, noting the cinephilic references to Cocteau's film \"Orpheus\". Writer Lynn Schofield Clark in his novel \"From Angels to Aliens\" compared the film to better-known horror films such as \"The Exorcist\" and \"The Omen\", citing it as a key supernatural thriller.\n\nThe review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reports a 95% approval rating and an average rating of 8/10 based on an aggregation of 56 reviews. It summarizes the film: \"This classic low budget horror film combines just the right amount of gore and black humor, giving \"The Evil Dead\" an equal amount of thrills and laughs.\" \"Empire\" magazine stated the film's \"reputation was deserved\", writing that the film was impressive considering its low budget and the cast's inexperience. He commented that the film successfully blended the \"bizarre\" combination of \"Night of the Living Dead\", \"The Texas Chain Saw Massacre\" and \"The Three Stooges\". A reviewer for Film4 rated \"The Evil Dead\" four-and-a-half stars out of five, musing that the film was \"energetic, original and icky\" and concluding that Raimi's \"splat-stick debut is a tight little horror classic that deserves its cult reputation, despite the best efforts of the censors.\"\n\n\"Slant Magazine\"s Ed Gonzales compared the film to Dario Argento's work, citing Raimi's \"unnerving wide angle work\" as an important factor to the film's atmosphere. He mused that Raimi possessed an \"almost unreal ability to suggest the presence of intangible evil\", which was what prevented the movie from being \"B-movie schlock\". BBC critic Martyn Glanville awarded the film four stars out of five, writing that for Raimi, it served as a better debut film than Tobe Hooper's \"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre\" or Wes Craven's \"The Last House on the Left\". Glanville noted that other than the \"ill-advised trees-that-rape scene\", the film is \"one of the great modern horror films, and even more impressive when one considers its modest production values.\"\n\nFilmcritic.com's Christopher Null gave the film the same rating as Glanville, writing that \"Raimi's biggest grossout is schlock horror done the right way\" and comparing it to Romero's \"Night of the Living Dead\" in its ability to create stark atmosphere. \"Chicago Reader\" writer Pat Graham commented that the film featured several \"clever\" turns on the standard horror formula, adding that Raimi's \"anything-for-an-effect enthusiasm pays off in lots of formally inventive bits.\" The make-up effects in one of the final scenes was called \"amazing\" by \"Time Out\" critic Stephen Garrett, who commented that although the film was light on character development, the \"relentless\" barrage of violent imagery made for an entertaining film. The same site later cited the film as the 41st greatest horror movie ever made. Phelim O'Neill of \"The Guardian\" combined \"The Evil Dead\" and its sequel \"Evil Dead II\" and listed them as the 23rd best horror film ever made, announcing that the former film \"stands above its mostly forgotten peers in the 80s horror boom.\" \"Complex Magazine\" composed a list of the twenty-five best horror movies available on Netflix, listing \"The Evil Dead\" at No. 21. Don Summer, in his book \"Horror Movie Freak\", and writer Kate Egan have both cited the film as a horror classic.\n\nJ.C. Maçek III of \"PopMatters\" said, \"What is unquestionable is that the Raimis and their pals created a monster in \"The Evil Dead\". It started as a disastrous failure to obtain a big break with a too long, too perilous shoot (note Campbell's changing hairstyle in the various scenes of the one-day plot). The film went through name changes and bannings only to survive as not only 'the ultimate experience in grueling horror' but as an oft-imitated and cashed-in-on classic, with 30 years of positive reviews to prove it.\"\n\nWhile \"The Evil Dead\" received favorable critical comment when it was initially released, it failed to establish Raimi's reputation. It was, however, a box-office success, which led to Campbell and Raimi teaming up again for the release of another movie. Joel Coen and his brother Ethan had collaborated as directors and released the film \"Blood Simple\", to critical acclaim. According to Campbell, Ethan, then an accountant, expressed surprise when the duo succeeded. The Coen brothers and Raimi collaborated on a screenplay, which was released shortly after \"The Evil Dead\". The film, \"Crimewave\", was a box-office failure. The film's production was a \"disaster\" according to Campbell, who stated that \"missteps\" like \"Crimewave\" usually lead to the end of a director's career. Other people involved with the film expressed similar disappointment with the project. Fortunately, Raimi had the studio support to make a sequel to \"The Evil Dead\", which he initially decided to make out of desperation.\n\n\"Evil Dead II\" was filmed and released in 1987, and was also a box-office success. A second, and currently final, sequel was released in 1993, \"Army of Darkness\". Campbell returned as the lead character Ash Williams in both films. At that time, Raimi had become a successful director, attracting Hollywood's interest. His 1990 superhero film \"Darkman\" was another box-office success, which led to an increased budget for \"Army of Darkness\". \"Army of Darkness\" had 22.8 times the budget of the original \"Evil Dead\", though it was not considered to be a box-office success like its two predecessors. \"Evil Dead II\" received general acclaim from critics and is often considered to be better than the original, and \"Army of Darkness\" received mostly positive reviews. The series has often attracted attention because each sequel featured more comedic qualities than the last, progressing into \"weirder\" territory with each film.\n\nUnofficial sequels were also made in Italy—where the film was known as \"La Casa\" (\"The House\")—by Joe D'Amato's Filmirage. In 1988, D'Amato produced two films labeled as sequels to \"Evil Dead II\", Umberto Lenzi's \"Ghosthouse\" (\"La Casa 3\"), and \"Witchery\" (\"La Casa 4\"), starring Linda Blair and David Hasselhoff. In 1990, D'Amato produced his final \"La Casa\" film, \"Beyond Darkness\" (\"La Casa 5\"). \"\" was reissued in Italy as \"La Casa 6\", and \"The Horror Show\" was then released in Italy as \"La Casa 7\".\n\n\"The Evil Dead\" and its sequels have become one of the largest cult film trilogies in history. David Lavery, in his book \"The Essential Cult TV Reader\", surmised that Campbell's \"career is a practical guide to becoming a cult idol\". The film launched the careers of Raimi and Campbell, who have since collaborated frequently. Raimi has worked with Campbell in virtually all of his films since, and Campbell has appeared in cameo roles in all three of Raimi's \"Spider-Man\" films, (as well as a very brief appearance at the end of \"Darkman\"), which have become some of the highest-grossing films in history. Though it has often been considered an odd choice for Raimi—a director known for his violent horror films—to direct a family-friendly franchise, the hiring was mostly inspired by Raimi's passion for comic books as a kid. Raimi returned to the horror-comedy genre in 2009 with \"Drag Me to Hell\".\n\nCritics have often compared Campbell's later performances to his role in \"Evil Dead\", which has been called his defining role. Campbell's performance as Ash has been compared to roles ranging from his performance of Elvis Presley in the film \"Bubba Ho-tep\" to the bigamous demon in \"The X-Files\" episode \"Terms of Endearment\". Campbell's fan base gradually developed after the release of \"Evil Dead II\" and his short-lived series \"The Adventures of Brisco County, Jr.\". He is a regular favorite at most fan conventions and often draws sold-out auditoriums at his public appearances. \"The Evil Dead\" developed a substantial cult following throughout the years, and has often been cited as a defining cult classic.\n\n\"The Evil Dead\" has spawned a media empire. A video game adaptation of the same name was for the Commodore 64 in 1984, as was a trilogy of survival horror games in the 1990s and early 2000s: \"\", \"\" and \"\". Ted Raimi did voices for the trilogy, and Campbell returned as the voice of Ash. The character Ash became the main character of a comic book franchise. Ash has fought both Freddy Krueger and Jason Voorhees in the \"Freddy vs. Jason vs. Ash\" series, Herbert West in \"Army of Darkness vs. Re-Animator\", zombie versions of the Marvel Comics superhero team \"Avengers\" in \"Marvel Zombies vs. The Army of Darkness\", and has even saved the life of a fictional Barack Obama in \"\". In January 2008, Dark Horse Comics began releasing a four-part monthly comic book mini-series, written by Mark Verheiden and drawn by John Bolton, based on \"The Evil Dead\".\n\nIn addition, the film has inspired a stage musical, \"\", which was produced with the permission of Raimi and Campbell. The musical has run on and off since its inception in 2003. A remake of the film was released in 2013, directed by Fede Alvarez and produced by Raimi and Campbell. It features actress Jane Levy as the main character, with Ash not appearing. Campbell does make a brief, uncredited cameo appearance at the end of the film in a short post-credits scene.\n\nIn 2015, an ongoing television continuation of the films called \"Ash vs Evil Dead\" premiered on the Starz Network. The first episode was directed by Raimi, and Campbell is reprising his role as Ash. The series is being produced by Renaissance, and follows an older Ash as he encounters the Kandarian Demon again.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54300944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54300944", "title": "The Putin Interviews", "text": "The Putin Interviews\n\nThe Putin Interviews is a four-part, four-hour television series by Oliver Stone. It was first broadcast in 2017.\n\nThe series was created from several interviews of Vladimir Putin by Stone between 2015 and 2017.\n\nStone's interview starts with a biography of Putin. Putin explains that he attended law school in the Soviet Union straight out of high school. Next, he was required to take a job with the KGB due to the job distribution system in place for college graduates in the Soviet Union. However, he acknowledges that he hoped to get this particular job. Putin tries to explain many aspects of how things in the former USSR worked, and has much criticism of the communist era in his country 1917–1991. He also thinks that the West must understand that today's Russia cannot function exactly as the West does, already. Putin also explains his views on NATO, and cannot see any reason to why this military alliance has grown after the fall of Communism in Europe. When Stone asks about Putin's views on Edward Snowden and whether he is a traitor or not, Putin replies, \"No he is not, as he never has worked for any foreign country,\" and also claims that Russian intelligence does not know anything more than what Snowden already had leaked before he arrived at Moscow's Sheremetyevo Airport. Stone asks, \"What about if an FSB employee had done something similar?\", and Putin replies \"To spy on ones own allies, really is very dirty.\" Putin had never watched Stanley Kubrick's 1963 black comedy satire about the Cold War, \"Dr. Strangelove\", and they watch the film together.\n\nThe documentary series is rated \"Fresh\" on Rotten Tomatoes with an 88% score. Metacritic, a review aggregator that weights its scores differently, presents a more mixed response with a \"mixed or average\" review score of 54. However both websites draw from essentially the same pool of critical reviews, with many of these reviewers offering nuanced responses that include both praise as well as points of criticism.\n\nA common thread among the criticism is that in interviewing Vladimir Putin, Oliver Stone failed to adequately challenge or press Putin with tough questions on a variety of subjects, such as \"Russia's propaganda law aimed at gays or his [Putin's] treatment of political foes.\" James Poniewozik of \"The New York Times\" writes that despite being \"revealing\" and offering a \"break from the usual news media vantages on Russia, either tough-talk centrism or the defenses of Putin enablers-come-lately in the conservative media,\" Stone's interviewing is \"embarrassingly generous.\" Poniewozik's charge that the interview is \"solicitous, even obsequious\" mirrors criticism leveled by Ann Hornaday of \"The Washington Post\", who summarizes the series as consisting mostly of \"softball questions,\" and by Brian Lowry of CNN who writes that \"Stone's idle chitchat and solicitous tone will surely leave many journalists and Putin critics gnashing their teeth.\" Marlow Stern of \"The Daily Beast\" even goes so far as to claim that the interview series intentionally sets out to \"humanize Putin and demonize America,\" and similarly concludes that \"Stone not only fails to challenge Putin, but essentially cedes him the floor.\"\n\nHowever the series also evoked praise and more thoroughly positive responses from a number of critics. Verne Gay of \"Newsday\", who rates the series a B+, acknowledges points raised by critics in the preceding paragraph writing that \"not once does Stone push back, or harsh the mellow with phrases like 'the facts say otherwise'.\" But he also points out that \"[d]uring an extraordinary career, Stone has never pretended to be an unbiased journalist — or journalist, period — and he’s not about to feign pretense now.\" Gay's point blunts the import of the above criticism by claiming that Stone never intended to offer the interview series as \"balanced\" and journalism: \nKen Tucker of Yahoo TV describes Stone's non-combative interview approach as \"the flexible way,\" and counters many critics desire for hard-hitting critical questions by pointing out that \"Putin would not respond well to aggression,\" and that \"one senses Putin would have shut down the interview if anything agitated him too much.\" Tucker in fact praises Stone's interview style as being effective for this particular subject: \nSonia Saraiya of \"Variety\" also offers praise of the series writing that: \"\"The Putin Interviews\" is a destabilizing documentary that challenges Americans’ narratives about ourselves and asks the viewer to engage in a conversation with a slippery subject. It’s riveting in how dangerous and intimate it feels, leveraging its multiple camera-angles and hand-held shots to make the viewer feel as if they, too, are in the room with Vladimir Putin.\"\n\nDuring a scene in Stone’s interview series with Putin, the president took out his phone to show Stone a clip of how “our aviation” was firing at militants in Syria. “That’s how our forces are operating,” Putin told the director. “These militants are running with arms, not just machine guns.” \nHowever, a Russian video published on June 20th, 2017 pointed out strong similarities between the clip Putin played and footage from 2013 of a U.S. Apache helicopter firing at militants in Afghanistan. The striking similarities led people on social media to call the clip “fake” and suggest that the Russian president didn’t realize what he was showing was not his own forces.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "33589381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33589381", "title": "Ubiratàn D'Ambrosio", "text": "Ubiratàn D'Ambrosio\n\nUbiratan D'Ambrosio (born December 8, 1932 in São Paulo) is a Brazilian mathematics educator and historian of mathematics.\n\nD'Ambrosio earned his doctorate from the University of São Paulo, Brazil in 1963. He retired as a professor of mathematics from the State University of Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil in 1993 having behind him an impressive career as teacher, administrator, council member of many societies, including Pugwash, and writer, and he also found time to serve the International Commission on the History of Mathematics (ICHM) for five years. D'Ambrosio is the founder of the Brazilian Society for Mathematics and History of the International Group of Ethnomathematicians. Here he also deals specifically with the history of mathematics in the context of the colonization process.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "197274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197274", "title": "Ven (Sweden)", "text": "Ven (Sweden)\n\nVen (, older Swedish spelling Hven) is a small Swedish island in the Øresund strait, between Scania and Zealand (Denmark). It is part of Landskrona Municipality, Skåne County. The island has 371 inhabitants and an area of . During the 1930s, the population was at its peak, with approximately 1,300 inhabitants. There are four villages on the island: Bäckviken, Tuna By, Norreborg and Kyrkbacken.\n\nUnlike the relatively flat islands Amager and Saltholm, Ven rises from the Øresund with steep and dramatic coastlines. This makes the island easily visible from both Zealand and Scania, as well as from all ships that sail in and out of the Baltic Sea. Its southern coastline resembles the White Cliffs of Dover, Møns Klint and Cape Arkona, but owing to a higher degree of sand and lower of chalk, the cliffs are more yellow than white. Almost the entire island consists of a flat agricultural landscape, but elevated like a plateau. Owing to the slightly higher altitude, the climate on the island in general is similar to that of the lower terrain coastal areas around Øresund.\n\nThe island has three smaller fishing ports: \"Bäckviken\" (where small ferries depart to Landskrona), \"Norreborg\" and \"Kyrkbacken\". The latter is located at the south-western coast just beneath the old church \"Sankt Ibb\". This coast is known as \"Backafall.\"\n\nThe island was historically under Danish rule. Danish astronomer Tycho Brahe (1546–1601) built two observatories there, Uraniborg and Stjerneborg, during 1576–1596. The observatories were built by the inhabitants of the island with Tycho Brahe as their Lord. \n\nThe Swedish took over control in 1658, as the rest of Scania was ceded to Sweden by the Treaty of Roskilde. The island was not specifically mentioned in the treaty, and according to the Danes it was not part of Scania, but of Zealand and therefore still under Danish rule. The Swedes did not agree with that interpretation, and sent troops to occupy the island on 6 May 1658. The transfer to Sweden was confirmed in 1660 by the Treaty of Copenhagen. The 350th anniversary of this transfer was commemorated on the island in 2010.\n\nTwo churches are located on this island. The older one, St Ibb's Church, is located at the top of a hill in the churchyard close to the west coast of the island, overlooking the Danish town of Rungsted. It was built in the 13th century and is a popular church for weddings. The younger church, which has been converted into a museum, is located in the middle of the island, near Uraniborg, one of the two observatories built by the astronomer Tycho Brahe.\n\nVen has ferries to Landskrona, and, in the summer only, to Helsingborg and Copenhagen. The ferries dock at Bäckviken. The island is a popular tourist place, especially in summer. It is sometimes called \"The pearl of Øresund\". As the earth is rich in till, it is good for agriculture. Durum wheat and grapes are grown there.\n\nBackafall on Ven is named in Gabriel Jönsson's poem \"Vid vakten\". He also wrote the song \"Flicka från Backafall\" (\"Girl from Backafall\").\n\n"}
{"id": "5793370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5793370", "title": "Wilhelm Tomaschek", "text": "Wilhelm Tomaschek\n\nWilhelm Tomaschek, or Vilém Tomášek (May 26, 1841, Olomouc – September 9, 1901, Vienna) was a Czech-Austrian geographer and orientalist. He is known for his work in the fields of historical topography and historical ethnography.\n\nBorn at Olmütz, in Moravia, he received his education at the University of Vienna (1860–64), afterwards working as a teacher in gymnasiums at Sankt Pölten and Vienna. On the strength of the first volume of \"Centralasiatische Studien\", he was named an associate professor of geography at the University of Graz in 1877. In 1881 he became a \"full professor\", and in 1885, was appointed chair of historical geography at the University of Vienna. In 1899 he became a regular member of the Vienna Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 1933 the thoroughfare \"Tomaschekstraße\", in the district of Floridsdorf (Vienna), was named in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "45328565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45328565", "title": "Zola River", "text": "Zola River\n\nThe Zola River, also known as the Zola Chai is a river in Iran, flowing into Lake Urmia. It runs north of Urmia and west of Salmas. Rising in the mountains along the border with Turkey, it flows southwest along the Salmas Plain. The river has a catchment area of 846 km².\n\nThe river has also been dammed for irrigation. The dam has a height of 83m and a width of 287m and is constructed of an Earth-rock dam with central clay core. The dam holds 85 million m³ of water.\n\nThe Zola river is an important component of the ecosystem of the Lake Urmia Basin. Lake Urmia is drying out and has taken on a red color due to phytoplankton in recent years. The health of this river is a key indicator of the health of the whole basin and is therefore the subject of much study.\n"}
