{"id": "16426004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16426004", "title": "Agile leadership", "text": "Agile leadership\n\nThe ability of a leader to be able to lead well in a wide range of circumstances especially new, changing and ambiguous situations.\n\nAgile Leadership is associated with mode four leaders (Modes of Leadership) who have the ability (and agility) to operate in any mode (system of thinking) and most importantly see from the perspectives of the other modes. It is this ability to think in a number of different ways that gives such leaders their agility. This is also introduced within the concepts of Agile Business Management as the primary management model for adaptive and agile organisations.\n\nThe attributes associated with Agile Leadership are (from Iacocca & Witney and Wilkinson):\n\n\nWithin Agile Business Management, the primary job of an Agile Leader is to encourage and empower cross-functional teams. This demands that team members are granted sufficient personal responsibility, accountability and authority to deliver the customers’ requirements. An Agile Leader can support this in three ways:\n\nThere are two primary anti-patterns for an Agile Leader; micromanagement and absenteeism. If a process is under control, and within allowed tolerances, staff should have the authority to deliver, without management intervention. This assumes a robust monitoring and reporting process, to identify when management intervention becomes required. This brings us to the other extreme, an absentee manager. A manager is ‘absentee’, even if they are physically in the office, if they do not monitor or engage with their staff to ensure delivery. Without a manager to eliminate impediments, it becomes nearly impossible to meet any schedules or budgets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43735117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43735117", "title": "Al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent", "text": "Al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent\n\nAl-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent () usually abbreviated as AQIS, is an Islamist militant organization which aims to fight the governments of Pakistan, India, Myanmar and Bangladesh in order to establish an Islamic state. The militant group has also stated its intentions to attack American targets in the Indian Subcontinent. This group is listed as a terrorist organization by the United Nations, United States, Canada and India.\n\nBefore coming together under AQIS, there were various jihadist factions operating in Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Afghanistan. One of these factions operated in Karachi, Pakistan, and were responsible for numerous attacks in the city. On 11 December 2014, AQIS issued a report detailing these attacks. The attacks targeted local police, a professor, and a blogger.\n\nOn 3 September 2014, Ayman al-Zawahiri, leader of al-Qaeda, announced the establishment of a new branch in the Indian subcontinent in a 55-minute video posted online. During the announcement, Zawahiri stated that it had taken two years to gather various jihadist factions into the new group, and introduced Asim Umar, a former commander in the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan, as its Emir. The announcement also introduced the group's spokesman, Usama Mahmoud, who praised militant commanders like Amjad Farooqi, Ilyas Kashmiri and Hassan Ghul. Farooqi was killed by Pakistani security forces. Kashmiri and Ghul were killed by US drone strikes in Pakistan.\n\nIn 2014, Pakistan Navy lieutenant Zeeshan Rafiq and former lieutenant Owais Jakhrani joined Asim Umar's al-Qaeda's faction with plans to attack US Navy ships in the Arabian Sea. They intended to hijack the PNS \"Zulfiqar\", a frigate carrying C-802 cruise missiles and a tactical nuclear warhead, and use the ship's armaments to fire on nearby US and NATO vessels. On September 6, 2014, the AQIS militants, including Rafiq and Jakhrani, failed in their attempt to seize the PNS \"Zulfiqar.\" Pakistani forces stationed at the Karachi docks saw through the militants' disguises as they tried to board the ship, leading to a firefight that left eleven attackers dead.\n\nOn 11 December 2014, Pakistani police arrested Shahid Usman, the head of the al-Qaeda wing in Karachi, and four others in Karachi along with weapons and 10 kg of explosives. Ustad Ahmad Farooq, the deputy emir for AQIS, was killed on 15 January 2015 following a US drone strike in South Waziristan. Qari ‘Imran, a member of the group’s ruling Shura Council, was killed on 5 January 2015 in a drone strike in North Waziristan.\n\nDespite Al Zawahiri announcement, Al Qaeda could not succeed in making any direct presence in India. Although some Kashmiris were arrested for assisting al Qaeda in the country, there is no evidence of any organized presence of the group in the region. Specifically, there has been no record of territorial claim, group activity or kidnapping of civilian or government officials by Al Qaeda. Some media reports suggested that al Qaeda is mainly being operated from Pakistan and Afghanistan to target India . Some experts also suggest that Al Qaeda have links with some local Kashmiri factionist groups to spread insurgency in the Indian state of Jammu & Kashmir. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi told CNN in an interview with Fareed Zakaria that Indian Muslims would not be allied with Al Qaeda because of their patriotism, modernity and literacy. \n\nIn October, a Kashmiri militant group calling itself \"Ansar ut-Tawhid wal Jihad in Kashmir\" published a video expressing support for Al Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent. The group offered to provide shelter to foreign fighters within AQIS as well as fight alongside it.\n\nAQIS spokesman Usama Mahmoud, in series of tweets, expressed support for militant groups in Chechnya, Dagestan, and Yemen. He also gave a eulogy for al-Shabaab leader Ahmed Abdi Godane, who was killed in a US drone strike.\n\nOn 19 October 2014, a 117-page English-language magazine called \"Resurgence\" was released online. It was produced by the Subcontinent branch of Al Qaeda's As-Sahab media production house, and the articles focused on waging jihad in the Indian Subcontinent.\n\nAl Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent has released multiple statements, mainly via the Twitter account of Usama Mahmoud, the group's spokesperson.\n\nOn 13 September 2014, Usama Mahmoud claimed responsibility for the attempted raid on a Pakistani frigate and the assassination of Pakistani Brigader Zahoor Ahmad Fazal in Punjab Province. On 17 September, Mahmoud released a statement which justified the attempted attack on the Pakistani frigate, stating that America was the primary enemy of AQIS. On September 30, AQIS released another statement which said that the intended targets were the American and Indian navies.\n\nOn 14 October 2014, Mahmoud confirmed that AQIS senior leader Imran Ali Siddiqi was killed in a US drone strike. He also spoke about the US-led coalition in Iraq and Syria. Siddiqi was a member of the group's Shura council.\n\nOn 4 November 2014, Mahmoud released a series of tweets that condemned what he said as the \"Infidel System.\" He also prayed for god to support militants in Chechnya, Dagestan, and Yemen, as well as Iraq and Syria. The following day, Mahmoud released a statement giving condolences to the killing of Somali al-Qaeda leader Ahmed Abdi Godane. He directed a statement to Somali fighters which said that the US must be fought.\n\nAQIS released an audio message from its leader, Asim Umar, on 10 November 2014. Umar eulogized AQIS Shura Council member Imran Ali Siddiqi, who was killed in a US drone strike in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas.\n\nOn 20 November 2014, AQIS spokesman Usama Mahmoud released a statement confirming the death of two officials of the group in a US raid on the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan. One of the officials owned the house that Khalid Sheikh Mohammed lived in when he was captured. Four days later, Mahmoud gave a eulogy for the two officials, and urged Pakistani doctors and military officers to follow their example.\n\nOn 5 December 2014, AQIS published a photo showing the two officials who were killed in the US raid on the Afghan-Pakistani border, as well as a photo of the deceased son of one of the officials.\n\nOn 20 December 2014, Usama Mahmoud, spokesman for AQIS, condemned an attack on a school in Peshawar, Pakistan, which was carried out by the Pakistani Taliban. He said that the attack was un-Islamic and that \"the massacre of innocent children makes our hearts burst.\"\n\nAs of now, AQIS have carried out multiple terrorist attacks in Pakistan and Bangladesh -\n\nThe group has been condemned by other Muslim religious and political organizations including the Association of Indian Muslims, Indian American Muslim Council, Indian Minorities Advocacy Network, Indian Muslim Educational Foundation of North America, Indian Muslim Relief and Charities, Muslim Youth Awareness Alliance in India, and the Hefazat-e-Islam Bangladesh and Khelafat Majlish in Bangladesh and Burmese Muslim Association in Myanmar. A spokesman for Hefazat-e-Islam Bangladesh added: There is prevailing a congenial and peaceful environment in Bangladesh. People are living in peace and in such a situation the announcement by Al Qaeda chief Zawahiri has made the people fearful and worried. Bangladesh had experienced earlier militant activities and terrorism by Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh and Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami. But they could not emerge successful and Al Qaeda would not come out successful in Bangladesh despite their announcement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "163629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163629", "title": "American Psycho", "text": "American Psycho\n\nAmerican Psycho is a novel by Bret Easton Ellis, published in 1991. The story is told in the first person by Patrick Bateman, a serial killer and Manhattan businessman. Alison Kelly of \"The Observer\" notes that while \"some countries [deem it] so potentially disturbing that it can only be sold shrink-wrapped\", \"critics rave about it\" and \"academics revel in its transgressive and postmodern qualities\".\n\nA film adaptation starring Christian Bale as Bateman was released in 2000 to generally favorable reviews. In 2008, it was confirmed that producers David Johnson and Jesse Singer were developing a musical adaptation of the novel to appear on Broadway. The musical premiered at the Almeida Theatre, London in December 2013.\n\nEllis researched murders at the New York Public Library. His first draft of \"American Psycho\" left all the grisly scenes until last, to be added in later. In 2010, in conversation with Jeff Baker, Ellis commented: \n\nSet in Manhattan during the Wall Street boom of the late 1980s, \"American Psycho\" follows the life of wealthy young investment banker Patrick Bateman. Bateman, in his mid-20s when the story begins, narrates his everyday activities, from his recreational life among the Wall Street elite of New York to his forays into murder by night. Through present tense stream-of-consciousness narrative, Bateman describes his daily life, ranging from a series of Friday nights spent at nightclubs with his colleagues—where they snort cocaine, critique fellow club-goers' clothing, trade fashion advice, and question one another on proper etiquette—to his loveless engagement to fellow yuppie Evelyn and his contentious relationship with his brother and senile mother. Bateman's stream of consciousness is occasionally broken up by chapters in which he directly addresses the reader in order to critique the work of 1980s pop music artists. The novel maintains a high level of ambiguity through mistaken identity and contradictions that introduce the possibility that Bateman is an unreliable narrator. Characters are consistently introduced as people other than themselves, and people argue over the identities of others they can see in restaurants or at parties. Deeply concerned with his personal appearance, Bateman gives extensive descriptions of his daily beauty regimen. The question of whether any of the crimes depicted in the novel actually happened or whether they were simply the fantasies of a delusional psychotic is only perpetuated further by the cinematic adaptation.\n\nAfter killing Paul Owen, one of his colleagues, Bateman appropriates his apartment as a place to host and kill more victims. Bateman's control over his violent urges deteriorates. His murders become increasingly sadistic and complex, progressing from simple stabbings to drawn-out sequences of rape, torture, mutilation, cannibalism, and necrophilia, and his grasp on sanity begins to slip. He introduces stories about serial killers into casual conversations and on several occasions openly confesses his murderous activities to his coworkers, who never take him seriously, do not hear what he says, or misunderstand him completely—for example, hearing the words \"murders and executions\" as \"mergers and acquisitions.\" These incidents culminate in a shooting spree during which he kills several random people in the street, resulting in a SWAT team being dispatched in a helicopter. This narrative episode sees the first-person perspective shift to third-person and the subsequent events are, although not for the first time in the novel, described in terms pertaining to cinematic portrayal. Bateman flees on foot and hides in his office, where he phones his attorney, Harold Carnes, and confesses all his crimes to the answering machine.\n\nLater, Bateman revisits Paul Owen's apartment, where he had earlier killed and mutilated two prostitutes, carrying a surgical mask in anticipation of the decomposing bodies he expects to encounter. He enters the perfectly clean, refurbished apartment, however, filled with strong-smelling flowers meant, perhaps, to conceal a bad odor. The real estate agent, who sees his surgical mask, fools him into stating he was attending the apartment viewing because he saw an \"ad in the \"Times\"\" (when there was no such advertisement). She tells him to leave and never return.\n\nBateman's mental state continues to deteriorate, and he begins to experience bizarre hallucinations such as seeing a Cheerio interviewed on a talk show, being stalked by an anthropomorphic park bench, and finding a bone in his Dove Bar. At the end of the story, Bateman confronts Carnes about the message he left on his machine, only to find the attorney amused at what he considers a hilarious joke. Mistaking Bateman for another colleague, Carnes claims that the Patrick Bateman he knows is too much of a coward to have committed such acts. In the dialogue-laden climax, Carnes stands up to a defiant Bateman and tells him his claim of having murdered Owen is impossible, because he had dinner with him twice in London just a few days prior.\n\nThe book ends as it began, with Bateman and his colleagues at a new club on a Friday night, engaging in banal conversation. The sign seen at the end of the book simply reads \"This is not an exit.\"\n\nAccording to literary critic Jeffrey W. Hunter, \"American Psycho \"is largely a critique of the \"shallow and vicious aspects of capitalism\". The characters are predominantly concerned with material gain and superficial appearances, traits indicative of a postmodern world in which the 'surface' reigns supreme. This leads Patrick Bateman to act as if \"everything is a commodity, including people\", an attitude that is further evident in the rampant objectification and brutalization of women that occurs in the novel. This distancing allows Bateman to rationalize his actions; in one anthropophagic scene, Bateman remarks \"though it does sporadically penetrate how unacceptable some of what I'm doing actually is, I just remind myself that this thing, this girl, this meat, is nothing ...\"\n\nPatrick Bateman's consumption of what he views as nothing more than a piece of meat is an almost parodically literal interpretation of a monster created by consumer culture. This, combined with sex, violence, drugs, and other desires of the id, is how Bateman enacts his sociopathic violence in a superficial world.\n\n\n\nThe book was originally to have been published by Simon & Schuster in March 1991, but the company withdrew from the project because of \"aesthetic differences\". Vintage Books purchased the rights to the novel and published the book after the customary editing process. The book was not published in hardcover in the United States until 2012, when a limited hardcover edition was published by Centipede Press, although a deluxe paperback was offered. Ellis received numerous death threats and hate mail after the publication of \"American Psycho\".\n\nIn Germany, the book was deemed \"harmful to minors\", and its sales and marketing severely restricted from 1995 to 2000. In Australia, the book is sold shrink-wrapped and is classified \"R18\" under national censorship legislation. The book may not be sold to those under 18 years of age. Along with other Category 1 publications, its sale is theoretically banned in the state of Queensland and it may only be purchased shrink-wrapped. In Brisbane, the novel is available to those over 18 from all public libraries and can still be ordered and purchased (shrink-wrapped) from many book stores despite this prohibition. Bret Easton Ellis has commented on this, saying \"I think it's adorable. I think it's cute. I love it.\" In New Zealand, the Government's Office of Film & Literature Classification has rated the book as R18. The book may not be sold or lent in libraries to those under 18 years of age. It is generally sold shrink wrapped in bookstores. In Canada, the book generated controversy during the trial of serial killer Paul Bernardo after a copy was discovered in his bedroom; the \"Toronto Sun\" reported he \"read it as his 'bible, though it turned out it actually belonged to his wife and accomplice Karla Homolka; it is unlikely Bernardo ever read it.\n\nFeminist activist Gloria Steinem was among those opposed to Ellis' book because of its portrayal of violence toward women. Steinem is the stepmother of Christian Bale, who played Bateman in the film. This coincidence is mentioned in Ellis' mock memoir \"Lunar Park\".\n\nPhil Collins, whose solo career is referenced in the book, recalled: \"I didn't read it. At the time, I just thought, 'That's all we need: glorifying all this crap. I'm not interested.' Then the film came out and I thought it was very funny.\"\n\nIn 2000, writer Guinevere Turner and writer/director Mary Harron adapted \"American Psycho\" into a dark, comic film released by Lions Gate Films. This screenplay was selected over three others, including one by Ellis himself. Bateman is played by Christian Bale with Willem Dafoe and Reese Witherspoon in supporting roles. As a promotion for the film, one could register to receive e-mails \"from\" Patrick Bateman, supposedly to his therapist. The e-mails, written by a writer attached to the film and approved by Ellis, follow Bateman's life since the events of the film. \"American Psycho\" premiered at the 2000 Sundance Film Festival where it was touted as the next \"Fight Club\". The Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) gave the film an NC-17 rating for a scene featuring Bateman having a threesome with two prostitutes. The producers excised approximately 18 seconds of footage to obtain an R-rating for the film.\n\nIt polarized audiences and critics with some showering praise, others scorn. Upon its theatrical release, however, the film received positive reviews in crucial publications, including \"The New York Times\" which called it a \"mean and lean horror comedy classic\". Author Bret Easton Ellis said, \"American Psycho was a book I didn't think needed to be turned into a movie,\" as \"the medium of film demands answers,\" which would make the book \"infinitely less interesting.\" The film currently holds a 67% \"Fresh\" rating on Rotten Tomatoes.\n\nA direct-to-video spin-off, \"American Psycho 2\" was released and directed by Morgan J. Freeman. This spin-off was not based on the novel or the original film, as its only connection with the original is the death of Patrick Bateman (played by Michael Kremko wearing a face mask), briefly shown in a flashback.\n\nIn 2009, Audible.com produced an audio version of \"American Psycho\", narrated by Pablo Schreiber, as part of its \"Modern Vanguard\" line of audiobooks. A Hungarian version of the novel was written by Attila Hazai (1967–2012) called \"Budapesti skizo\" (\"Budapest Psycho\", 1997); it was Hazai's best known work but as of his death never translated into English.\n\nIn 2013, a Kickstarter campaign was launched by Ellis and others to get a musical stage adaptation made. The premiere of the musical, with music and lyrics by Duncan Sheik opened at the Almeida Theatre, London in December 2013. The role of Patrick Bateman was played by Matt Smith.\n\nAlso in 2013, FX was planning a TV series, set in the present, with Patrick Bateman in his 50s.\n\n"}
{"id": "23293530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23293530", "title": "Catch share", "text": "Catch share\n\nCatch share is a fishery management system that allocates a secure privilege to harvest a specific area or percentage of a fishery's total catch to individuals, communities, or associations. Examples of catch shares are individual transferable quota (ITQs), individual fishing quota (IFQs), territorial use rights for fishing (TURFs), limited access privileges (LAPs), sectors (also known as cooperatives), and dedicated access privileges (DAPs).\n\nCatch shares provide long-term secure privileges to participants and, in theory, an incentive for efficient, sustainable use of fish stocks. Actual outcomes in terms of efficiency and ecological sustainability are varied, based on design and implementation of the program.\n\nCatch share programs generally fall into two categories. Quota-based programs, like ITQs, establish a fishery-wide catch limit, assign portions (or shares) of the catch to participants and hold participants directly accountable to stay within the catch limit.\n\nArea-based programs, like TURFs, allocate a secure, exclusive area to participants and include appropriate controls on fishing mortality that ensure long-term sustainability of the stock. A combination of both quota- and area-based approaches has also been used.\n\nThe term \"catch share\" has taken root recently, but similar management systems providing secure and exclusive access to fishery resources have been in use for many years. Community-based management in Japan's near-shore fisheries dates back to feudal times, and modern individually-allocated catch share programs were first implemented by the state of Wisconsin in the early 1970s for important fish stocks in the Great Lakes. Also, Iceland and the Netherlands implemented catch shares for important stocks in the late 1970s.\n\nThe use of catch share programs worldwide has been expanding since the earliest implementations in the 1970s. Some countries, such as Iceland, New Zealand, and Australia, have made catch share programs the default management system.\n\nThe United States has implemented the vast majority of its catch share programs in the 21st century. In 2010, catch shares were implemented in the United States Northeast Multispecies fishery and in the United States Atlantic Sea Scallop fishery. In 2011, a catch share program was implemented in the Pacific Coast Groundfish Limited Entry Trawl fishery, which includes fishermen from the states of Washington, Oregon, and California.\n\nWorldwide, there are nearly 200 catch share programs, used in 40 countries, to manage a wide variety of marine and freshwater species including finfish, sharks and crustaceans. Catch shares are used in developing and industrialized nations, artisanal and industrial fleets, and in high- and low-value fisheries.\n\nFisheries have historically been treated as a common property resource. The dangers of managing fisheries as a common property resource were included in the development of modern theory of fishery economics, first introduced in 1954 by H. Scott Gordon. The theoretical framework showed that the common property nature of fisheries results in competition between individual operators to increase their share of the catch, which can ultimately lead to excessive capital, such as fishing vessels and gear, overfishing and resource wastage. In common property fisheries, individual operators face an incentive to harvest as many fish as quickly as possible to pre-empt the activities by other operators.\n\nCatch shares have been proposed as a potential solution for the common property challenges found in many fisheries and have typically been implemented after a variety of other approaches have failed. Most commercial fisheries begin under open access conditions in which any fisherman is able to enter the fishery, put in effort, and catch fish. However, if fish biomass is no longer able to sustain the amount of fishing effort exerted in the fishery, populations begin to decline, and fishing becomes less profitable. Conventional management systems tend to respond using input controls such as limiting the number of entrants to the fishery, restricting boat and gear capacity, limiting the number of days at sea, and applying catch allowances per trip. However, studies show that the approaches are sometimes ineffective in controlling overall harvest, and managers often implement additional effort-based regulations, output controls, to set strict fishery catch limits. Although catch limits have proven sufficient to sustain a fishery, the management approaches alone do not fundamentally eliminate the incentive for fishermen to compete and increase their share of the catch, which can lead to reduced fishery profitability and dangerous fishing conditions.\n\nBy providing secure shares of quota to fishermen, individuals or groups, it is argued that catch share programs have the potential for a fundamental shift of the behavior of fishery participants and incentives for long term stewardship. For example, with quota-based catch shares, the value of the share is directly tied to the landings value of the fishery, which may increase if the health of the fishery improves.\n\nMany catch share programs allow for voluntary trading, a process that allows operators to purchase shares, temporarily or permanently, from those willing to sell or lease shares. Transfers are considered an important component of catch shares because they can promote the most economically-efficient use of the resource.\n\nEmpirical research in the past two decades has shown that catch share management of fisheries has a variety of ecological, economic and social outcomes when it is compared with traditional management of fishery inputs. Studies examining the ecological impacts of catch share management show that they stabilize landings and catch limits. Additional research has also shown reduced discards in catch share fisheries.\n\nHowever, when they are compared to fisheries managed under conventional catch limits, recent studies have demonstrated that catch share offer no advantages to the long term sustainability of a fishery and may exacerbate localized fishery depletion.\n\nThe economic impacts of catch shares are well-documented and vary on the program design and fishery goals. Catch share programs has been shown to stop the race for fish that is often experienced in traditionally-managed fisheries. With improved certainty, catch shares have also extended season lengths by providing operators with a longer time period to harvest and the ability to coordinate fishing trips based on market conditions. Empirical evidence has shown that fisheries become more profitable, as the costs of fishing are reduced, and dockside prices for products increase.\n\nMany catch share programs are designed to reduce overcapitalization and active fishing vessels, for a transition from many temporary fishing jobs to fewer but more stable full-time jobs.\n\nChanges resulting from a transition to catch shares often improve the economics of the active participants in the fishery, but in some cases, they are considered undesirable from a community or welfare economics perspective. In specific programs, critiques largely focus on tradeoffs, which commonly involve changes in fleet capacity, employment, and aggregation of shares in the fishery.\n\nReduction in fleet capacity is frequently cited as a negative outcome of catch shares, but such a reduction may be listed as explicit fishery goal. Catch share fisheries can result in greater capitalization of the fishing fleet when the capital required to purchase shares is included. At the same time, catch share programs may experience a change in the structure of employment, transforming from many part-time jobs, paid as a share of landings value, to fewer full-time positions paid by wages. As a result of capacity reduction and employment shifts, programs can result in a reduction in the number of fishery participants.\n\nFor example, the Bering Sea crab catch share program in the United States experienced a significant reduction in the number of participants and part-time jobs and is currently operated by fewer full-time positions. Although fishing jobs are longer because of the lengthening of the fishing season, the percentage of total landings value that is paid to employees in this fishery has decreased substantially. As a result, it is argued that the tradeoffs associated with certain catch share programs include increased unemployment, economic contraction of coastal communities, and economic losses to businesses and communities that rely on the fishing fleet.\n\nAlthough a number of catch share programs do include financing options for small businesses and new entrants, some fishing communities, academics, journalists, and nonprofit organizations have claimed that catch shares serve as a mechanism for the consolidation of fishing rights, often by corporations with better financing capacity than independent fishermen. New institutions are being developed to improve communities' access to shares, allow new entrants into the fishery, and/or keep quota within the community. They include the development and use of permit banks, community license banks and Community Fishing Associations. Programs' design features, including concentration caps, owner-on-board regulations, and trading restrictions, can be used to help alleviate potential unwanted social outcomes. However, it is argued the measures have only mitigated, not prevented, the undesirable social and economic outcomes that accompany catch share programs. Critics have claimed that proliferation of catch share management is reflective of the increasingly strong link between the government and the private sector and that the programs are typically the result of special interest influence over legislation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33925665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33925665", "title": "Chief of Local State Administration (Ukraine)", "text": "Chief of Local State Administration (Ukraine)\n\nIn Ukraine, the title Head (Chief) of Local State Administration (\"Ukrainian:\" Голова місцевої державної адміністрації) refers to the chief executive of each of the administrative divisions of Ukraine: oblast (region/province), raion (district) or city, in case of Kiev and Sevastopol. \n\nInformally the position of the head of Regional State Administration or more commonly Oblast State Administration (for oblasts) is referred to as governor. However, its function is very different from a traditional gubernatorial position.\n\nThe position derived from the institute of presidential representatives that was introduced during the presidency of Leonid Kravchuk in 1992. After the resignation of Leonid Kravchuk as the President of Ukraine, most of presidential representatives positions in regions were discontinued and their functions were performed by chairmen of executive committee in each regional council. In the Autonomous Republic of Crimea the position is still called the Representative of President of Ukraine in Crimea. \n\nEarlier before fall of the Soviet Union, regional leaders were the first secretaries of regional committees of the Communist Party of Ukraine which was a constituent part of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union.\n\nBeside the local state administration all local (regional, district, city) councils have their own executive committees.\n\nThere are two offices of a head of city state administration one for Kiev and another for Sevastopol. The head of Kiev City State Administration (governor) usually is served by the Kiev city mayor elected by the popular vote. The head of Sevastopol City State Administration (governor) is appointed by the president on petition of the prime minister. Sevastopol is the only city in Ukraine that does not have a mayoral position.\n\nDue to the 2014 annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation the post of the head of Sevastopol City State Administration is currently suspended, while the Presidential representative in Crimea continues to function in the continental Ukraine along with other Crimean office of executive power.\n\nThe chiefs of local state administrations are appointed by the President of Ukraine with the recommendation from the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The role and powers of the position are defined in the Chapter 2 (Articles 8 - 12) of the Law of Ukraine \"On Local State Administration\" (Law № 586-XIV, parliament, April 9, 1999). Candidates on the position of the chief of district state administration are recommended to the Prime Minister of Ukraine by the chiefs of the respected regional state administrations. \n\nThe appointment is terminated in case of violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and laws of Ukraine, loss of citizenship or discovery of dual citizenship, recognition of incompetency by a court, emigration for a residence abroad, gaining a court conviction by a legal force, violation of compatibility requirements, declaring no confidence by the two-thirds of the relevant council composition, filing a request for dismissal from office at own will. The appointment may also be terminated by the President of Ukraine in case of accepting the resignation of the Chief of Regional State Administration, petition of Prime Minister of Ukraine on the grounds prescribed by the legislation about the State Service, declaring no confidence by the majority of the relevant council composition, other circumstances foreseen by this or other laws of Ukraine, on initiative of the President of Ukraine. The authority of the chiefs of local state administrations is terminated also upon their death. In case of election of the new President of Ukraine the chiefs of local state administrations continue to exercise their powers until appointment of the new chiefs of local state administrations in established order.\n\nThe chief thus heads the executive branch in each region, district, or city. The chief forms the composition of the local State Administration as well as its structure depending upon the budget allocations and requirements to the Article XVIII of the Law of Ukraine \"On the Principles of Regulatory Policy in Economic Activity\" (Law № 1160-IV, parliament, September 11, 2003).\n\nTo execute the Constitution of Ukraine, laws of Ukraine, acts of the President of Ukraine, Cabinet of Ukraine, other bodies of executive power as well as own and delegated powers the chief issues orders. The orders of the chief adopted within his/her competence are mandatory for execution on respective territory by all authorities, companies, institutions and organizations, officials and citizens.\n\n\nList of governors who also served as government ministers: Serhiy Tulub, Mykhailo Kaskevych, Heorhiy Filipchuk, Mykola Derkach, Volodymyr Yatsuba, Viktor Bondar, Oleksandr Vilkul, Dmytro Kolyesnikov, Serhiy Polyakov, Anatoliy Blyznyuk, others.\n\nList of governors who also served as governors in several regions: Volodymyr Shcherban, Mykola Lavryk, Volodymyr Kulish, Volodymyr Yatsuba, Valentyn Reznichenko, Pavlo Zhebrivskyi, others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2514431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2514431", "title": "Climate Audit", "text": "Climate Audit\n\nClimate Audit is a blog which was founded on 31 January 2005 by Steve McIntyre.\n\nIn November 2009 journalist Andrew Revkin described it in \"The New York Times\" as \"a popular skeptics’ blog\" run by McIntyre, a retired Canadian mining consultant.\n\nIn 2004 Stephen McIntyre blogged on his website climate2003.com about his efforts with Ross McKitrick to get an extended analysis of the hockey stick graph into the journal \"Nature\".\n\nOn 25 October 2004 McIntyre posted comments on climate2003.com about a piece by William Connolley circulated on various blogs, and on 26 October wrote, \"Maybe I’ll start blogging some odds and ends that I’m working on. I’m going to post up some more observations on some of the blog criticisms.\" On 1 December Michael E. Mann and nine other scientists launched the RealClimate website as \"a resource where the public can go to see what actual scientists working in the field have to say about the latest issues.\" On climate2003.com McIntyre noted this development in a blog post on 10 December, where he wrote \"Mann and some of his colleagues have set up a blog at the above address. A couple of Mann's first postings have been arguments against our papers. I'll post up a two quick comments below.\" On 2 February 2005 McIntyre set up his Climate Audit blog, having found difficulties with posting comments on the climate2003.com layout.\n\nDr Judith Curry of the Georgia Institute of Technology has said \"McIntyre started the blog climateaudit.org so that he could defend himself against claims being made at the blog Realclimate with regards to his critique of the “hockey stick” since he was unable to post his comments there\". She has also referred to this site as one of several \"Climate Auditor\" websites.\n\nAfter the UK Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) came into effect in 2005, Climate Audit readers were asked to make FOI requests to the Climatic Research Unit (CRU) at the University of East Anglia (UEA) for the raw data from weather stations used in developing instrumental temperature record datasets, for copies of agreements under which the raw data was obtained from meteorology institutions, and also for email correspondence relating to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fourth Assessment Report.\nOn 12 August 2009, Olive Heffernan wrote in \"naturenews\" that \"Since 2002, Steve McIntyre, the editor of Climate Audit, a blog that investigates the statistical methods used in climate science, has repeatedly asked Phil Jones, director of the Climatic Research Unit (CRU) at the University of East Anglia, UK, for access to monthly global surface temperature data held by the institute. But in recent weeks, Jones has been swamped by a sudden surge in demands for data\". She described how CRU had received 58 FOIA requests between 24 and 29 July 2009 from McIntyre or others associated with the blog. The raw data was restricted to academics, and the unit's director Phil Jones said that the data was subject to confidentiality agreements with various governments, but he was seeking agreement to get the raw data available online. He said that “Data release needs to be done in a systematic way.”\n\nThe site was one of the first to receive word of the e-mails which had been leaked from the University of East Anglia with Jonathan Leake of \"The Times\" writing, \"The storm began with just four cryptic words. 'A miracle has happened,' announced a contributor to Climate Audit, a website devoted to criticising the science of climate change.\" Louise Gray wrote in The Daily Telegraph, \"Climate Audit was one of the first to post up the stolen emails from the University of East Anglia that led to the 'climategate' scandal\".\n\nBloomberg said of the controversy, \"Web sites and blogs including the Climate Audit Mirror Site have carried copies of e-mails, correspondence between climatologists and commentary. In one e-mail cited widely on blogs including Climate Audit, Phil Jones writes about completing “Mike’s nature trick of adding in the real temps” in order to hide the decline.\" According to Antonio Regalado writing in \"Science Insider\", Jones wrote e-mails stating that he convinced the university's FOI managers to not release data to \"greenhouse skeptics\" because Jones believed that they planned to harm the UAE or setback climate science by drawing scientists into disputes, wasting research time. \"Think I've managed to persuade UEA to ignore all further FOIA requests if the people have anything to do with Climate Audit,\" Jones wrote in 2007. The House of Commons' Science and Technology Committee largely vindicated the scientists involved in the scandal, but left consideration of the quality of the science and the conduct of the research to committees chaired by Lord Oxburgh and Sir Muir Russell. Fox News said that McIntyre \"who also worked at the IPCC and submitted notes to the Science and Technology Committee for its investigation, wrote a lengthy rebuttal of the decision on his blog\", and disputed the committee's conclusion that the word \"trick\" \"appears to be a colloquialism for a 'neat' method of handling data\". Further investigations by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, the Inspector General of the United States Department of Commerce and the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) of the National Science Foundation reaffirmed that the accusations against the scientists were unfounded.\n\nJames Hansen, the former director of NASA's Goddard Institute, has dismissed McIntyre as a \"court jester\".\n\n\"If a single person can be credited with setting the stage for Climategate, it's Stephen McIntyre, the retired mining consultant behind the popular skeptic blog Climate Audit,\" wrote Kate Sheppard at \"Mother Jones\" in 2011. \"Emails from this period show the scientists lashing out against McIntyre. He is referred to as a \"bozo \" and \"a playground bully .\" McIntyre clearly gets a rise out of irking scientists, whom he frequently refers to as 'the Team'—another play on the hockey-stick metaphor. He likes to 'tease these guys and kind of make fun of them,' he says, and their evident aggravation at his inquiries only egged him on. 'I think it was a mistake for them to in effect adopt a fatwa against Climate Audit,' says McIntyre.\" \n\nPatrick J. Michaels, a former contributor to the IPCC, named Climate Audit as part of \"a new “parallel universe” of emerging online publications, manned by serious scientists critical of world governments approach to climate change. “A parallel universe is assembling itself parallel to the IPCC. This universe has become very technical -- very proficient at taking apart the U.N.’s findings.\"\n\nInternet voting by the public won the website the 2007 Weblog \"Best Science Blog\" award and it was a runner up in the same category in 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38337332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38337332", "title": "Conflict economics", "text": "Conflict economics\n\nConflict economics is a branch of economics that puts the allocation of resources by means of violent fighting, i.e. conflict, into economic models.\n\nIn traditional economics, appropriation is a non-violent process that is guaranteed by perfect property rights and their costless enforcement.\nConflict economics sheds a different light on appropriation. It is set in a model of contest between two players. Conflict economics introduces the idea that agents have to decide between production of resources and production of guns, i.e. tools that have the sole purposes of appropriating the resources produced by the other player. Different models are introduced to illustrate various situations that have similarities to real life conflicts.\n\nTwo parties contest a given resource Z. The player who wins the contest claims the entire resource, not leaving anything for the losing party. The probabilities of winning are determined by each party’s choice of guns.\n\nIn this model, agents face a trade-off between producing themselves and grabbing the output of the other agent. Each party is endowed with a secure resource R. The resource cannot be consumed directly but has to be allocated between producing guns (tools for conflict) or butter (consumption). Again, the probability of winning the contest and grabbing the other output depend on the relative numbers of guns produced. This model allows testing of different power structures between the players. One of the interesting outcomes is that if one agent has higher productivity, i.e. if he uses one unit of the resource he will gain more butter than his opponent would, he will receive a relatively lower expected pay-off. This is due to the fact that each player will then exploit his or her comparative advantage, with the more productive player producing more butter and the less productive player producing more guns, resulting in a higher chance of winning the conflict thus leading to a higher expected pay-off.\n\nConflict is not the only way that parties can appropriate resources. Depending on the risk preferences of the agents, a simple division of the contested resource according to a settlement can be envisioned. A two-stage game serves to illustrate this. In the first stage, parties make their gun choices. In the second stage, negotiations take place. If the negotiations are successful, the players agree on a division and share the good.\n\nIf the negotiations are not successful, conflict ensues with the winning party again taking the whole resource. This two-stage model is especially interesting if one includes the possibility of destruction into the model, i.e. in case of conflict the winner is left with only a part of the contested resource. Parties might prefer settlement over conflict if they have an aversion to uncertainty (outcome of conflict dependent on probabilities) or destruction.\n\nHowever, in the long term conflict might be the dominant strategy. Introducing a discount rate for payoffs in the future might induce players to start conflict in the present. Defeating your opponent in the present will secure the resource for you in the future (opponent is eliminated), thus not having to share it in a settlement.\n\nConflict might not occur between two agents only, but a number of agents can be involved in hostilities. Individuals and parties have been repeatedly proven to form alliances to achieve a common goal. There are cost advantages to be realized or the sum of individual efforts creates synergies that cannot be realized by individuals on their own. However one has to keep in mind that if individuals work together there are always incentives for \"free riding.\" \nIn conflict economics, group conflict builds upon the resource conflict model. A two-stage game is constructed. In the first stage (inter-group conflict) groups and individuals compete for the resource. The probabilities of winning depend on the effort, i.e. number of guns, that individuals are contributing to the group. In the second stage (intra-group conflict) the successful group allocates the won resource among its members. This allocation can be according to the efforts that individuals spent, contracts or just an equal distribution according to the number of members.\n\nHowever group structures have been found to be more unstable the higher the number of individuals there are in the group. Individuals have higher expected payoff by switching to a group with less individuals or forming a stand-alone alliance. For alliances to be stable they have to be roughly the same sizes or symmetric.\n\n"}
{"id": "34847525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34847525", "title": "Democratic Socialist Arab Ba'ath Party", "text": "Democratic Socialist Arab Ba'ath Party\n\nThe Arab Democratic Socialist Ba'ath Party ( \"Hizb Al-Ba'ath Al-Dimuqratiy Al-'Arabi al-Ishtiraki\"; French: \"Parti Baath arabe socialiste démocratique\") is a neo-Ba'athist political party founded in 1970 and led by Brahim Makhous, a former Syrian foreign minister. It is a remnant of Salah Jadid's left-wing faction of the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party – Syria Region. The party is based in Paris, France and joined the National Democratic Rally coalition in 1981.\n\nUnlike historic Ba'athism which advocates Ba'athist political control of the state, the Arab Democratic Socialist Ba'ath Party supports democratic pluralism. The party advocates the implementation of the laws enshrining freedom of speech, assembly, and equality of opportunities that, although included in the constitution, are not enforced. The party also supports the concept of class struggle.\n\nThe Arab Democratic Socialist Ba'ath Party joined the National Coordination Committee for Democratic Change following the beginning of the Syrian Civil War, and has advocated dialogue with the government to ensure a handover of power whilst rejecting both external military intervention and the arming of the opposition. The party also supported Kofi Annan's peace plan. The party also has representation in the Syrian Democratic Council (the political wing of the Syrian Democratic Forces) as part of the Assembly for Democracy and the Left in Syria.\n"}
{"id": "4118664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4118664", "title": "Dental assistant", "text": "Dental assistant\n\nDental assistants (also known as dental nurses) are members of the dental team. They may support a dental operator (such as a dentist or other treating dental auxiliary) in providing more efficient dental treatment. \"Dental assistants\" are distinguished from other groups of dental auxiliaries (such as dental therapists, dental hygienists and dental technicians) by differing training, roles and patient scopes.\n\nThe first dental assistant in modern history is believed to trace back to 1885. Dr Edmund Kells, a pioneering dentist operating from New Orleans, enlisted the help of his wife, Malvina Cueria to assist him during dental procedures. The dental field was initially dominated by males, but after this first addition of a female, it was then acceptable for women to seek dental treatment without their husbands. This led to dental assistants of that era also being known as \"Ladies in Attendance\". Thanks to the addition of women to dentistry, the profession flourished with more and more women seeking treatment and more patients overall receiving care.\n\nIt was not until almost four decades later that in 1923 the first dental assistant association was founded by Juliette Southard, named the American Dental Assistant Association and it is still in practise now. It began with just five members, now reaching more than 10,000.\n\nThe dental assistant's role is often thought to be to support the dental operator by typically passing instruments during clinical procedures. However, in fact, their role extends much further to include: providing patients help with their oral hygiene skills, preparing the patient for treatment, sterilising instruments, assisting during general anaesthetic dental procedures, positioning suction devices, exposing dental radiographs, taking dental impressions, recording patient notes and administration roles such as scheduling appointments.\n\nIt was customary for oral health care workers and dental assistants in the 1980s to practice oral health care without wearing gloves, masks or eye protection. This was at a crucial time due to the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) spreading rapidly at a global rate. However, in 2018 gloves, masks and eye protection have become part of the standard infection control guidelines which has been implemented in all oral health care settings as a means of preventing the spread of infectious disease. Infection control in oral health care not only protects the patient but it also protects the oral health care workers. This includes: dentists, dental specialists, oral health therapists, dental hygienists and dental assistants.\n\nDental assistants play a crucial role in maintaining high levels of infection control in the oral health care setting. The dental assistant is the major link between oral health care workers and the patient. To perform infection control responsibilities well, the dental assistant must have the appropriate education, training and work experience. Examples of infection control protocols that the dental assistant needs to follow in an oral health setting include:\n\nHand hygiene aims to reduce the number of microorganisms on hands. Antimicrobial agents such as alcohol-based hand rub or antimicrobial soap and water are effective agents to remove most antimicrobial bacteria on hands in dental settings.\n\nGloves, gown and eye protection are essential barrier protection items that enable the dental assistant to reduce the transmission of infectious diseases to themselves, other dental co-workers and patients. Gloves and masks need to be disposed after each patient, eyewear can be disposable or reusable and gowns need to be replaced if visibly soiled. Lastly, footwear must include leather closed toe shoes; this minimises the risk of sharps injury.\n\nIt is crucial to wear sterile gloves when the dental assistant is assisting in surgery with the oral health care clinician. Hand hygiene using antimicrobial soap and water is imperial to maintaining adequate infection control in this setting, as this minimises the risk of infection.\n\nIt is crucial that sharp instruments which include: needles, scalers, scalpels, burs, orthodontics bands and endodontic files need to be handled with care and appropriate techniques to minimise any potential sharps injury. Sharps also need to be disposed accordingly into the sharps containers, separate from other disposable bins. The dental assistant needs to be aware of what is required to go into the sharps containers and what is not. This minimises the chance of spreading infectious diseases.\n\nIt is imperative that when performing change over, that the dental assistant is able to distinguish the difference between medical related waste compared to contaminated waste. Contaminated waste needs to be placed in a leak proof thick yellow bag with a biohazard symbol label.\n\nThe dental assistant should put on new gloves when cleaning working surfaces during the changeover between patients. They must also be able to distinguish between clean and dirty zones as this minimises the spread of infectious diseases between co-workers and patients. Additionally, plastic barriers are placed on: instruments such as; hand pieces connected to the chair, overhead lights, amalgamators, x-ray machines, mixing materials and other miscellaneous dental instruments, materials or appliances. One of the roles that the dental assistant participates in is changing these plastic barriers after each patient has left that surgery. This ensures that the surgery is set up ready for the next patient.\n\n\nDental assistants play a large role in ensuring that the reusable dental instruments used daily in dental practices are sterilised adequately after each use. Sterilisation is an essential part of the infection control protocol. This can be defined as free of all life forms where the elimination of considerable number of the most heat resistant spores (bacterial and mycotic) is the basic criteria sterilisation. Sterilisation process consists of\n\n\nDisinfectant is also one of the major roles of dental assistant where chemicals applied to inanimate surfaces such as lab tops, counter tops, headrests, light handles, etc. This is to make sure that germicide and/or microbiostatic are achieved. Antiseptic chemical agents similar to disinfectants but they may be applied safely to living tissue, is another task for dental assistant where Alcohol is the most commonly used.\n\nDental assistants make a difference in the community by participating in health promotion activities and programs. These programs may take place at schools, preschools, immunisation events or at maternal health clinics. Dental operators may also be supported by dental assistants during pre-school or school screenings.\n\nDental assistants can extend their scope to provide oral health promotion to patients in Australia by completing the Certificate IV in Dental Assisting (Oral Health Promotion). The dental assistant will have the ability to implement an individualised oral health promotion program and oral hygiene program. After the appropriate training the dental assistant may; \n\n\nDental assistants help other dental and allied health professionals in health promotion. These dental assistants implement oral health programs by providing resources and presentation promoting oral health messages to several target groups and community settings. These settings include:\n\n\nDental assistant can educate the community and schools by advising on:\n\n\nCurrently in Australia, dental assistants are not required to be registered under the Dental Board of Australia. However, dental assistants who have attained their certificate IV in dental assisting – Dental Radiography must hold a current license with the relative state or territory radiation authority. Dental assistants that decide to take on further study into their certificate IV in dental assisting - dental radiography, have an advantage of exposing patients to radiation also known as an x-ray, with regards to oral health care. The dental assistant will take training to further their practical and theoretical skills relevant to the role of the dental radiographer. \nUpon successful completion of the training program dependent on the course structure, the dental assistant may:\n\nExpose intra-oral radiographs that ensures an optimum radiographic image.\n\n\nLooking to the future of dentistry and oral health, the roles for dental assistants are ever-changing and expanding. With the increase in an ageing population, it will become more and more commonplace for dental assistants to be employed to support dental operators with providing oral health promotion and treatment within residential care facilities.\n\nThe number of newly graduated dentists and dental auxiliaries is increasing and with that the need for dental assistants. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics of America the rate of employed dental assistants will likely increase by 18% in the ten years between 2014 and 2024. With an increase in dental assistants comes the possibility of extension in the dental assistant roles and scope. As seen in some states of the United States of America, dental assistants are able to perform some simple fillings with the supervision of a practising dentist. By allowing dental assistants to extend their scope alongside the appropriate training, the workload of the other members of the dental team is lessened and increases efficiency of the dental clinic management. This may have the potential to reach other countries in the future as the need for dental and oral health treatments increase.\n\nDental assistant roles can vary depending on different country qualifications and regulations. Below are examples of dental assisting roles which the dental assistant is able to perform, respective to that country.\n\nAccording to the Australian Government, Department of Health, in 2006 there were 15,381 registered dental assistants supporting dental operators. Of those, 171 were Indigenous.\n\nIn Australia Dental Assistants should have the following skills:\n\n\nDental Assistants work as part of a wider dental team, primarily with Dentists, but also with Dental Specialists, Oral Health Therapists, Dental Therapists, Dental Technitions, Dental Hygienists and Dental Prosthetists.\n\nTasks include:\n\n\n\nVICTORIA\n\nNEW SOUTH WALES\n\nQUEENSLAND\n\nNORTHERN TERRITORY\n\nWESTERN AUSTRALIA\n\nSOUTH AUSTRALIA\n\nTASMANIA\nAustralian Dental assistants perform limited and restricted duties and are not permitted to perform any of the following:\n\n\nDental Assisting is not a registered profession in Australia and as such training courses are not mandatory, although those with nationally recognised qualifications will enjoy the benefits of higher wages and better employment opportunities.\n\nThere is no formal training required of entry level dental assistants in order to commence or undertake work in private practice in Australia. Most dental assistants gain practical experience at a place of employment although there are vocational qualifications which are nationally recognised and highly recommended for increasing a person's job prospects, remuneration, and professional development.\n\nThe National Vocational Qualification HLT35015 Certificate III in Dental Assisting is the entry level of vocational training for dental assisting while HLT45015 Certificate IV in Dental Assisting are suitable for those who seek to further their skills and duties and elect units from particular streams such as dental radiography, oral health promotion, practice administration, general anaesthesia and conscious sedation. These formal qualifications can be offered only by registered training organisations such as TAFE and professional associations while Certificate III in Dental Assisting may also be offered as a traineeship in most States of Australia and as a School-based Traineeship for years 11 and 12 in some States.\n\nCurrently dental assistants are not required to be registered under the Dental Board of Australia or with any State and Territory Boards since dental assisting is not a registered profession. Dental Assistants who have attained a Certificate IV in Dental Assisting – Dental Radiography and are required to operate dental radiography apparatus as part of their job role, must hold a current license with the relevant state or territory Radiation Authority.\n\nDental assistants are strongly encouraged to have current vaccinations for Hepatitis B, and Tetanus along with the normal childhood vaccination recommendations (Measles, mumps, varicella, polio) and influenza. Many state and territory public health care facilities and training providers will require students and workers to present evidence of Hepatitis B immunity and the results of a criminal history check prior to commencing clinical placement. Most private dental clinics will also require employees to have current vaccination records and may also require workers to undertake annual influenza vaccinations.\n\nAccording to Occupational Employment Statistics, in the USA in 2017 there are a total of 337,160 Dental Assistants: they all should have the following personal qualities:\n\n\nUnlike Australia, in the USA dental assisting is a registered profession represented by the American Dental Assistants Association (ADAA) and members should possess both front desk and chairside skills.\n\nRoutine duties include:\n\n\nExtended duties may include:\n\n\nIn some U.S. states, dental assistants can work in the field without a college degree, while in other states, dental assistants must be licensed or registered/\n\nDental assistants can receive formal education through academic programs at community colleges, vocational schools, career colleges, technical institutes, universities and dental schools with most programs needing only 8 to 11 months to complete.\n\nThe Commission on Dental Accreditation of the American Dental Association accredits dental assisting school programs, of which there are over 200 in the United States.\n\nTo become a Certified Dental Assistant, or CDA, dental assistants must take the DANB (Dental Assisting National Board) CDA examination after they have completed an accredited dental assisting program, while those who have been trained on the job or have graduated from non-accredited programs are eligible to take the national certification examination after they have completed two years of full-time work experience as dental assistants. Some dentists are willing to pay a dental assistant-in-training that has a good attitude and work ethic.\n\nIn the USA the Dental Assisting National Board offers three nationally recognised certifications, namely:\n\n\nExpanded duties dental assistants or expanded functions dental assistants, as they are known in some states, may work one on one with the patient performing restorations after the doctor has removed decay Ideally, a dental assistant should have both administrative and clinical skills although it's still acceptable to have one or the other.\n\nDuties may also include seating and preparing the patient, charting, mixing dental materials, providing patient education and post-operative instructions. They also keep track with inventory control and ordering supplies.\n\nIn the UK, Registered Dental Nurses are prohibited from carrying out any form of direct dental treatment on the patient, including teeth whitening procedures, under the GDC scope of practice. Dental nurses found to be carrying out dental procedures are liable to be removed from the statutory GDC register.\n\nDuties include:\n\n\nThose with additional training or skills developed during their careers can undertake expanded duties that may include:\n\n\nEntry level working as a trainee dental nurse does not require any qualification, but progression to qualified dental nurse requires completion of a formal course of study, either part or full-time, approved by the General Dental Council. A minimum 2 GCSEs (C grade or above) in English language and maths or a science subject are usually required for part-time courses while full-time courses may require evidence of A-level or AS-level study. A level 3 apprenticeship in dental nursing is an alternative pathway to gaining the required qualifications in dental nursing.\n\nIn Ireland dental assistants have the following tasks:\n\n\nSkills Required\n\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, it is often dental nurses (and teeth whitening technicians) who carry out teeth whitening procedures rather than dentists.\n\nThis practice mainly occurs in clinics focusing solely on laser teeth whitening. In Ireland, registration as a dental nurse with The Irish Dental Council is voluntary; however, nurses who are registered and who carry out teeth whitening may face disciplinary action if caught.\n\n"}
{"id": "50467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50467", "title": "Edict of Nantes", "text": "Edict of Nantes\n\nThe Edict of Nantes (French: \"édit de Nantes\"), signed in April 1598 by King Henry IV of France, granted the Calvinist Protestants of France (also known as Huguenots) substantial rights in the nation, which was still considered essentially Catholic at the time. In the edict, Henry aimed primarily to promote civil unity. The edict separated civil from religious unity, treated some Protestants for the first time as more than mere schismatics and heretics, and opened a path for secularism and tolerance. In offering general freedom of conscience to individuals, the edict offered many specific concessions to the Protestants, such as amnesty and the reinstatement of their civil rights, including the right to work in any field or for the state and to bring grievances directly to the king. It marked the end of the religious wars that had afflicted France during the second half of the 16th century.\n\nThe Edict of St. Germain, promulgated 36 years before by Catherine de Médici, had granted limited tolerance to Huguenots but was overtaken by events, as it was not formally registered until after the Massacre of Vassy on 1 March 1562, which triggered the first of the French Wars of Religion.\n\nThe later Edict of Fontainebleau, which revoked the Edict of Nantes in October 1685, was promulgated by Louis XIV, the grandson of Henry IV. It drove an exodus of Protestants and increased the hostility of Protestant nations bordering France.\n\nThe Edict aimed primarily to end the long-running Wars of Religion. Henry IV also had personal reasons for supporting the Edict. Prior to assuming the throne in 1589 he had espoused Protestantism, and he remained sympathetic to the Protestant cause: he had converted to Catholicism in 1593 only in order to secure his position as king, supposedly saying \"Paris is well worth a Mass\". The Edict succeeded in restoring peace and internal unity to France, though it pleased neither party: Catholics rejected the apparent recognition of Protestantism as a permanent element in French society and still hoped to enforce religious uniformity, while Protestants aspired to parity with Catholics. \"Toleration in France was a royal notion, and the religious settlement was dependent upon the continued support of the crown.\"\n\nRe-establishing royal authority in France required internal peace, based on limited toleration enforced by the crown. Since royal troops could not be everywhere, Huguenots needed to be granted strictly circumscribed possibilities of self-defense.\n\nThe Edict of Nantes that Henry IV signed comprised four basic texts, including a principal text made up of 92 articles and largely based on unsuccessful peace treaties signed during the recent wars. The Edict also included 56 \"particular\" (secret) articles dealing with Protestant rights and obligations. For example, the French state guaranteed protection of French Protestants travelling abroad from the Inquisition. \"This crucifies me,\" protested Pope Clement VIII, upon hearing of the Edict. The final two parts consisted of \"brevets\" (letters patent) which contained the military clauses and pastoral clauses. These two brevets were withdrawn in 1629 by Louis XIII, following a final religious civil war.\n\nThe two letters patent supplementing the Edict granted the Protestants safe havens (\"places de sûreté\"), which were military strongholds such as La Rochelle, in support of which the king paid 180,000 écus a year, along with a further 150 emergency forts (\"places de refuge\"), to be maintained at the Huguenots' own expense. Such an act of toleration was unusual in Western Europe, where standard practice forced subjects to follow the religion of their ruler — the application of the principle of \"cuius regio, eius religio\".\n\nWhile it granted certain privileges to Huguenots, the edict upheld Catholicism's position as the established religion of France. Protestants gained no exemption from paying the tithe and had to respect Catholic holidays and restrictions regarding marriage. The authorities limited Protestant freedom of worship to specified geographic areas. The Edict dealt only with Protestant and Catholic coexistence; it made no mention of Jews, or of Muslims, who were offered temporary asylum in France when the Moriscos were being expelled from Spain.\n\nThe original Act which promulgated the Edict has disappeared. The \"Archives Nationales\" in Paris preserves only the text of a shorter document modified by concessions extracted from the King by the clergy and the Parlement of Paris, which delayed ten months before finally signing and setting seals to the document in 1599. A copy of the first edict, sent for safekeeping to Protestant Geneva, survives. The provincial parlements resisted in their turn; the most recalcitrant, the parlement of Rouen, did not unreservedly register the Edict until 1609.\n\nThe location of the signing is mooted. The Edict itself states merely that it is \"given at Nantes, in the month of April, in the year of Our Lord one thousand five hundred and ninety-eight\". By the late 19th century the Catholic tradition cited the signing in the \"Maison des Tourelles\", home of prosperous Spanish trader André Ruiz; it was destroyed by bombing in World War II.\n\nThe Edict remained unaltered in effect, registered by the parliaments as \"fundamental and irrevocable law,\" with the exception of the \"brevets,\" which had been granted for a period of eight years, and were renewed by Henry in 1606 and in 1611 by Marie de Médecis, who confirmed the Edict within a week of the assassination of Henry, stilling Protestant fears of another St. Bartholomew's Day massacre. The subsidies had been reduced by degrees, as Henry gained more control of the nation. By the peace of Montpellier in 1622, concluding a Huguenot revolt in Languedoc, the fortified Protestant towns were reduced to two, La Rochelle and Montauban. The \"brevets\" were entirely withdrawn in 1629, by Louis XIII, following the Siege of La Rochelle, in which Cardinal Richelieu blockaded the city for fourteen months.\n\nDuring the remainder of Louis XIII's reign, and especially during the minority of Louis XIV, the implementation of the Edict varied year by year, voiced in declarations and orders, and in case decisions in the Council, fluctuating according to the tides of domestic politics and the relations of France with powers abroad.\n\nIn October 1685, Louis XIV, the grandson of Henry IV, renounced the Edict and declared Protestantism illegal with the Edict of Fontainebleau. This act, commonly called the \"'revocation of the Edict of Nantes\",' had very damaging results for France. While the wars of religion did not re-ignite, intense persecution of Protestants took place. All Protestant ministers were given two weeks to leave the country unless they converted to Catholicism and all other Protestants were prohibited from leaving the country. In spite of the prohibition, the persecution including many examples of torture caused as many as 400,000 to flee France at risk of their lives. Most moved to Great Britain, Prussia, the Dutch Republic, Switzerland, South Africa and the new French colonies and the Thirteen Colonies in North America. This exodus deprived France of many of its most skilled and industrious individuals, some of whom thenceforward aided France's rivals in the Netherlands and in England. The revocation of the Edict of Nantes also further damaged the perception of Louis XIV abroad, making the Protestant nations bordering France even more hostile to his regime. Upon the revocation of the edict, Frederick William, Elector of Brandenburg issued the Edict of Potsdam, which encouraged Protestants to come to Brandenburg-Prussia.\n\nFreedom to worship and civil rights for non-Catholics in France were not restored until the signing of the Edict of Versailles, also known as the Edict of Tolerance, by Louis XVI 102 years later, on 7 November 1787. This edict was enacted by parlement two months later, less than two years before the end of the Ancien Régime and the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen of 1789 would fully eliminate religious discrimination in France.\n\nThe principal and most salient provisions of Henry IV’s Edict of Nantes, as promulgated at Nantes in Brittany probably on 30 April 1598, include:\n\n<poem>Henri, by the grace of God king of France and of Navarre, to all to whom these presents come, greeting:\n\nAmong the infinite benefits which it has pleased God to heap upon us, the most signal and precious is his granting us the strength and ability to withstand the fearful disorders and troubles which prevailed on our advent in this kingdom. The realm was so torn by innumerable factions and sects that the most legitimate of all the parties was fewest in numbers. God has given us strength to stand out against this storm; we have finally surmounted the waves and made our port of safety,—peace for our state. For which his be the glory all in all, and ours a free recognition of his grace in making use of our instrumentality in the good work... We implore and await from the Divine Goodness the same protection and favor which he has ever granted to this kingdom from the beginning...\n\nWe have, by this perpetual and irrevocable edict, established and proclaimed and do establish and proclaim:\n\nI. First, that the recollection of everything done by one party or the other between March, 1585, and our accession to the crown, and during all the preceding period of troubles, remain obliterated and forgotten, as if no such things had ever happened...\n\nIII. We ordain that the Catholic Apostolic and Roman religion shall be restored and reëstablished in all places and localities of this our kingdom and countries subject to our sway, where the exercise of the same has been interrupted, in order that it may be peaceably and freely exercised, without any trouble or hindrance; forbidding very expressly all persons, of whatsoever estate, quality, or condition, from troubling, molesting, or disturbing ecclesiastics in the celebration of divine service, in the enjoyment or collection of tithes, fruits, or revenues of their benefices, and all other rights and dues belonging to them; and that all those who during the troubles have taken possession of churches, houses, goods or revenues, belonging to the said ecclesiastics, shall surrender to them entire possession and peaceable enjoyment of such rights, liberties, and sureties as they had before they were deprived of them...\n\nVI. And in order to leave no occasion for troubles or differences between our subjects, we have permitted, and herewith permit, those of the said religion called Reformed to live and abide in all the cities and places of this our kingdom and countries of our sway, without being annoyed, molested, or compelled to do anything in the matter of religion contrary to their consciences, ... upon condition that they comport themselves in other respects according to that which is contained in this our present edict.\n\nVII. It is permitted to all lords, gentlemen, and other persons making profession of the said religion called Reformed, holding the right of high justice [or a certain feudal tenure], to exercise the said religion in their houses...\n\nIX. We also permit those of the said religion to make and continue the exercise of the same in all villages and places of our dominion where it was established by them and publicly enjoyed several and divers times in the year 1597, up to the end of the month of August, notwithstanding all decrees and judgments to the contrary...\n\nXIII. We very expressly forbid to all those of the said religion its exercise, either in respect to ministry, regulation, discipline, or the public instruction of children, or otherwise, in this our kingdom and lands of our dominion, otherwise than in the places permitted and granted by the present edict.\n\nXIV. It is forbidden as well to perform any function of the said religion in our court or retinue, or in our lands and territories beyond the mountains, or in our city of Paris, or within five leagues of the said city...\n\nXVIII. We also forbid all our subjects, of whatever quality and condition, from carrying off by force or persuasion, against the will of their parents, the children of the said religion, in order to cause them to be baptized or confirmed in the Catholic Apostolic and Roman Church; and the same is forbidden to those of the said religion called Reformed, upon penalty of being punished with especial severity...\n\nXXI. Books concerning the said religion called Reformed may not be printed and publicly sold, except in cities and places where the public exercise of the said religion is permitted.\n\nXXII. We ordain that there shall be no difference or distinction made in respect to the said religion, in receiving pupils to be instructed in universities, colleges, and schools; nor in receiving the sick and poor into hospitals, retreats, and public charities.</poem>\n\n\nThe source followed by most modern historians is the Huguenot refugee Élie Benoist's \"Histoire de l'édit de Nantes\", 3 vols. (Delft, 1693–95). E.G. Léonard devotes a chapter to the Edict of Nantes in his \"Histoire général du protestantisme\", 2 vols. (Paris) 1961:II:312–89.\n\n"}
{"id": "5800772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5800772", "title": "EuroSim", "text": "EuroSim\n\nThe primary purpose of EuroSim is to provide a framework for a partial simulation of a major European Union issue. \n\nMore than two hundred students, drawn from universities in North America and Europe, participate in the simulation. All students are assigned roles, including Members of the European Parliament, members of the European Commission, heads of government, and national ministers. Students prepare for the simulation at their own universities, with the help of faculty advisers and guidance that is provided through a course management website. Researching the simulation topic and the assigned roles constitutes an important part of all students' preparatory work. The simulations themselves are held over a period of four days, with the venue alternating between the U.S. and Europe annually.\n\nRecent issues simulated include energy policy, asylum policy, food safety, enlargement, the Constitutional Convention, the Intergovernmental Conference, EU neighborhood policy, Kosovo, EU-Russia relations, EU Budget, migration policy, and data retention. \n\nThe idea for a model European Union came in the fall of 1987 when students at SUNY (State University of New York) College at Brockport asked the political science department to sponsor a model United Nations. After thorough consideration by faculty, students at SUNY Brockport agreed to be involved in a project regarding what was formerly called the European Community.\n\nThe first simulation was held on the Brockport campus, April 8–10, 1988. Involving SUNY and private New York schools, the simulation held the title SUNYMEC (State University of New York Model European Community). It wasn’t until 1992 the simulation established the label EuroSim and became a trans-Atlantic exchange with its first overseas meeting in Luxemburg. The 2003 simulation event was the first time EuroSim was a trans-Atlantic endeavor - a sure sign of the simulation’s maturity. The term “trans-Atlantic” indicates the simulation is organized and planned by faculty and students from both Europe and the United States. In fact, EuroSim 2003 was the first time the simulation was planned by U.S. and European student directors equally.\nA simulation was held at the Europaisch Akademie in Otzenhausen, Germany in 2008. The 2009 EuroSim was hosted by Canisius College in Buffalo, New York, followed by a simulation at the University of Antwerp in 2010. In 2011, EuroSim moved out of New York state for the first time, with Widener University in Chester, Pennsylvania. In 2012, The University of Lower Silesia in Wroclaw, Poland held the simulation. The most recent simulation was held at East Stroudsburg University, Pennsylvania, April 4-7 2013. The next edition will be hosted by the University of Twente, the Netherlands, January 4-7 2014 on the theme of \"Economic and Social Policy: Minimum Income Directive\".\n\nEuroSim is funded and supported through sponsorship by the following organizations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16885719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16885719", "title": "Everest Peace Project", "text": "Everest Peace Project\n\nThe Everest Peace Project (malayalam: എവറസ്റ്റ് സമാധാന ദൗത്യം is an organization based in the United States that promotes peace, teamwork and cultural understanding by climbing some of the highest peaks in the world by a team of individuals from various faiths and cultures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8034806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8034806", "title": "Golden Projects", "text": "Golden Projects\n\nThe Golden Projects are several e-government projects carried by the Government of the People's Republic of China. These projects include\n\n"}
{"id": "57497272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57497272", "title": "Guards Ribbon", "text": "Guards Ribbon\n\nThe Guards Ribbon, , is a military decoration awarded in the Soviet Union in 1942 for the elite soviet Guards unit, during the Great Patriotic War. The \"Guards Ribbon\" is also seen on various soviet war medals, and should not be confused with the Imperial Russian Army's military decoration, the Ribbon of Saint George.\n\nSometime after the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917, the Soviet Government banned the Ribbon of Saint George and discouraged any usage of Russian imperial military awards after the revolution, based of the decree made by the Council of People's Commissars \"On the Equalization of Rights of All Military Servicemen\". On 21 May 1942, the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR introduced Guards ranks and Guards badges to be worn of the right side of the chest. Also included the banned Ribbon of Saint George pattern on medals and the Guards Red Banner Naval flag. In June 1943, they introduced the Guards Red Banners for the land forces and in February 1944 – for the naval forces. The patter of the Ribbon of Saint George adorned the banners exactly as in the 19th century, but the title remained de jure as the \"Guards Ribbon\", unlike the defunct George's ribbon. The Ribbon had barely any significance during the Soviet Union, but did serve it's usage on famous medals awarded to Red Army soldiers after the second world war, such as the Medal \"For the Victory over Germany in the Great Patriotic War 1941–1945\". And was also worn on top of Soviet Navy caps during the Second World War. The reintroduction of the Ribbon of Saint George under a different title was part of the revival of Russian patriotism under the Soviet Union during the war. It helped boost the morale of the Red Army, alongside propaganda posters that featured Bogatyrs and famous Imperial Russian generals, such as Mikhail Kutuzov. The revival of Russian patriotism and Tsarist symbolism contradicted the Soviet Union's internationalist ideology, but was only a temporary change in behavior due to the invasion by Nazi Germany.\n\nThe pattern that was used for the Guards Ribbon was also used in various Soviet medals with different colors.\n"}
{"id": "1601774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1601774", "title": "Haleh Afshar, Baroness Afshar", "text": "Haleh Afshar, Baroness Afshar\n\nHaleh Afshar, Baroness Afshar, (; born 21 May 1944) is a British professor and a life peer in the House of Lords. She is a prominent Muslim feminist, and characterises herself as a Socialist and a Shi'a Muslim. Her background is in equal opportunities in Britain, and before that, land reform and development in Iran, where she grew up, and journalism in both countries.\n\nShe grew up in a privileged family in Iran, part of the establishment, with a father involved in academe and politics. The family moved to Paris in the late 1940s, where her father represented the government. Until she was fourteen, she had a nanny who bathed and dressed her; at that point she read \"Jane Eyre\" and began to realise her privilege and how dependent on others she was. She persuaded her parents to allow her to go to England, where she attended a boarding school in Solihull, initially speaking no English.\n\nWhilst at college in Brighton Haleh won tickets to see The Beatles in a game of poker and even rode pillion on the motorcycle of Ranulph Fiennes.\n\nAs an undergraduate at York she learned to cook (crediting \"the sainted Delia\"). She had an agreement with her father that she would not have to marry while she was still studying, so she applied herself to her studies, completing a PhD degree from the New Hall, Cambridge. She worked as a journalist before and after her first degree. She returned to Iran in her late 20s, where she worked as a civil servant in the field of land reform, and also as a journalist and gossip columnist.\n\nIn the end she married a New Zealander (the academic, Maurice Dodson) who would accept what she anticipated to be an international career. She initially thought motherhood was not for her, considering it to be \"de-skilling\" and incredibly difficult in Britain, where the system did not allow a woman to be both a mother and a worker. She was seven months pregnant before she realised her condition, but now considers her two children to be \"the best things I ever did in my life\". She is a grandmother.\n\nAfshar is the third generation of women not to veil; her maternal grandmother rejected the hijab. Her family wanted to extend possibilities for women, and Haleh Afshar was one of the first cohort of Iranian women to vote, feeling she was fulfilling her mother's wishes. Many of the people she grew up with were killed in the Iranian Revolution. She thinks it would be unwise to return to her homeland, having criticised Ayatollah Khomeni's stance on women, saying it was unIslamic, and has been threatened because of this.\n\nHaleh Afshar is a professor in politics and women's studies at the University of York, England and a visiting professor of Islamic law at the Faculté Internationale de Droit Comparé (International Faculty of Comparative Law) at Robert Schuman University in Strasbourg, France. Afshar serves on several bodies, notably the British Council and the United Nations Association, of which she is Honorary President of International Services. She was appointed to the board of the Women's National Commission in September 2008. She has served as the Chair for the British Society for Middle Eastern Studies (BRISMES). Afshar is a founding member of the Muslims Women's Network. She has served on the Home Office's working groups, on \"engaging with women\" and \"preventing extremism together\".\n\nShe was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in the 2005 Birthday Honours. for services to equal opportunities. On 18 October 2007 it was announced that she would be made a baroness and join the House of Lords as a cross-bench life peer. She was formally introduced into the House of Lords on 11 December 2007, as Baroness Afshar, of Heslington in the County of North Yorkshire.\n\nIn March 2009, she was named as one of the twenty most successful Muslim women in the UK on the Muslim Women Power List 2009. The list was a collaboration between the Equality and Human Rights Commission, Emel Magazine and The Times, to celebrate the achievements of Muslim women in the UK.\n\nIn April 2009, she was appointed an Academician of the Academy of Social Sciences.\n\nIn 2011, she received an Honorary Doctorate from the University of Essex.\n\nIn January 2013, Afshar was nominated for the Services to Education award at the British Muslim Awards.\n\nHaleh Afshar has written extensively on Iran and Iranian politics both for academia and the media in Europe, the United States, the Middle East and South East Asia. Her books include \"Islam and Feminisms: An Iranian Case Study\" (Macmillan, 1998), and \"Islam and the Post Revolutionary State in Iran\" (Macmillan, 1994). She has also edited thirteen books on women and development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "199169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199169", "title": "Ibn Khaldun", "text": "Ibn Khaldun\n\nIbn Khaldun (; , ; 27 May 1332 – 17 March 1406) was an Arab historiographer and historian.\n\nHe is widely considered as a forerunner of the modern disciplines of historiography, sociology, economics, and demography.\n\nHe is best known for his book, the \"Muqaddimah\" or \"Prolegomena\" (\"Introduction\"). The book influenced 17th-century Ottoman historians like Kâtip Çelebi, Ahmed Cevdet Pasha and Mustafa Naima, who used the theories in the book to analyze the growth and decline of the Ottoman Empire. Also, 19th-century European scholars acknowledged the significance of the book and considered Ibn Khaldun to be one of the greatest philosophers of the Middle Ages.\n\nIbn Khaldun's life is relatively well-documented, as he wrote an autobiography (, \") (\"Presenting Ibn Khaldun and his Journey West and East\"\") in which numerous documents regarding his life are quoted word-for-word.\n\nAbdurahman bin Muhammad bin Muhammad bin Muhammad bin Al-Hasan bin Jabir bin Muhammad bin Ibrahim bin Abdurahman bin Ibn Khaldun, generally known as \"Ibn Khaldūn\" after a remote ancestor, was born in Tunis in AD 1332 (732 AH) into an upper-class Andalusian family of Arab descent, the family's ancestor was, according to him, a Yemeni Arab who shared kinship with Waíl ibn Hujr, a companion of the Islamic Prophet Muhammad. His family, which held many high offices in Andalusia, had emigrated to Tunisia after the fall of Seville to the Reconquista in AD 1248. Under the Tunisian Hafsid dynasty, some of his family held political office; his father and grandfather, however, withdrew from political life and joined a mystical order. His brother, Yahya Khaldun, was also a historian who wrote a book on the Abdalwadid dynasty and\nwas assassinated by a rival for being the official historiographer of the court.\n\nIn his autobiography, Khaldun traces his descent back to the time of Muhammad through an Arab tribe from Yemen, specifically the Hadhramaut, which came to the Iberian Peninsula in the 8th century, at the beginning of the Islamic conquest: \"And our ancestry is from Hadhramaut, from the Arabs of Yemen, via Wa'il ibn Hujr also known as Hujr ibn 'Adi, from the best of the Arabs, well-known and respected.\" (p. 2429, Al-Waraq's edition). However, the biographer Mohammad Enan questions his claim and suggests that his family may have been Muladis who pretended to be of Arab origin to gain social status. Enan also mentions a well-documented past tradition that certain Berber groups delusively \"aggrandize\" themselves with some Arab ancestry. The motive of such inventions was always the desire for political and societal ascendancy. Some speculate that of the Khaldun family and elaborate that Ibn Khaldun himself was the product of the same Berber ancestry as the native majority of his birthplace. A point supporting that posits that his unusual focus on and admiration Maharlika Berbers reveals a deference towards them that is born of a vested interest in preserving them in the realm of conscious history. Islamic scholar Muhammad Hozien contends, \"The false [Berber] identity would be valid however at the time that Ibn Khaldun's ancestors left Andulsia and moved to Tunisia they did not change their claim to Arab ancestry. Even in the times when Berbers were ruling, the reigns of Al-Marabats and al-Mowahids, et. al. The Ibn Khalduns did not reclaim their Berber heritage.\" Khaldun's tracing of his own genealogy and surname are thought to be the strongest indication of Arab Yemenite ancestry.\n\nHis family's high rank enabled Ibn Khaldun to study with the best teachers in Maghreb. He received a classical Islamic education, studying the Qur'an, which he memorized by heart, Arabic linguistics; the basis for understanding the Qur'an, hadith, sharia (law) and fiqh (jurisprudence). He received certification (ijazah) for all of those subjects. The mathematician and philosopher Al-Abili of Tlemcen introduced him to mathematics, logic and philosophy, and he studied especially the works of Averroes, Avicenna, Razi and Tusi. At the age of 17, Ibn Khaldūn lost both his parents to the Black Death, an intercontinental epidemic of the plague that hit Tunis in 1348–1349.\n\nFollowing family tradition, he strove for a political career. In the face of a tumultuous political situation in North Africa, that required a high degree of skill in developing and dropping alliances prudently to avoid falling with the short-lived regimes of the time. Ibn Khaldūn's autobiography is the story of an adventure, in which he spends time in prison, reaches the highest offices and falls again into exile.\n\nAt the age of 20, he began his political career at the Chancellery of the Tunisian ruler Ibn Tafrakin with the position of \"Kātib al-'Alāmah\" (seal-bearer), which consisted of writing in fine calligraphy the typical introductory notes of official documents. In 1352, Abū Ziad, the sultan of Constantine, marched on Tunis and defeated it. Ibn Khaldūn, in any case unhappy with his respected but politically meaningless position, followed his teacher Abili to Fez. There, the Marinid sultan, Abū Inan Fares I, appointed him as a writer of royal proclamations, but Ibn Khaldūn still schemed against his employer, which, in 1357, got the 25-year-old a 22-month prison sentence. Upon the death of Abū Inan in 1358, Vizier al-Hasān ibn-Umar granted him freedom and reinstated him to his rank and offices. Ibn Khaldūn then schemed against Abū Inan's successor, Abū Salem Ibrahim III, with Abū Salem's exiled uncle, Abū Salem. When Abū Salem came to power, he gave Ibn Khaldūn a ministerial position, the first position to correspond with Ibn Khaldūn's ambitions.\n\nThe treatment that Ibn Khaldun received after the fall of Abū Salem through Ibn-Amar ʻAbdullah, a friend of Ibn Khaldūn's, was not to his liking, as he received no significant official position. At the same time, Amar successfully prevented Ibn Khaldūn, whose political skills he knew well, from allying with the Abd al-Wadids in Tlemcen. Ibn Khaldūn, therefore, decided to move to Granada. He could be sure of a positive welcome there since at Fez, he had helped the Sultan of Granada, the Nasrid Muhammad V, regain power from his temporary exile. In 1364, Muhammad entrusted him with a diplomatic mission to the king of Castile, Pedro the Cruel, to endorse a peace treaty. Ibn Khaldūn successfully carried out this mission and politely declined Pedro's offer to remain at his court and have his family's Spanish possessions returned to him.\n\nIn Granada, Ibn Khaldūn quickly came into competition with Muhammad's vizier, Ibn al-Khatib, who viewed the close relationship between Muhammad and Ibn Khaldūn with increasing mistrust. Ibn Khaldūn tried to shape the young Muhammad into his ideal of a wise ruler, an enterprise that Ibn al-Khatib thought foolish and a danger to peace in the country. History proved al-Khatib right, and at his instigation, Ibn Khaldūn was eventually sent back to North Africa. Al-Khatib himself was later accused by Muhammad of having unorthodox philosophical views and murdered despite an attempt by Ibn Khaldūn to intercede on behalf of his old rival.\n\nIn his autobiography, Ibn Khaldūn tells little about his conflict with Ibn al-Khatib and the reasons for his departure. Orientalist Muhsin Mahdi interprets that as showing that Ibn Khaldūn later realised that he had completely misjudged Muhammad V.\n\nBack in Africa, the Hafsid sultan of Bougie, Abū ʻAbdallāh, who had been his companion in prison, received him with great enthusiasm and made Ibn Khaldūn his prime minister. Ibn Khaldūn carried out a daring mission to collect taxes among the local Berber tribes. After the death of Abū ʻAbdallāh in 1366, Ibn Khaldūn changed sides once again and allied himself with the Sultan of Tlemcen, Abū l-Abbas. A few years later, he was taken prisoner by Abu Faris Abdul Aziz, who had defeated the sultan of Tlemcen and seized the throne. He then entered a monastic establishment and occupied himself with scholastic duties until 1370. In that year, he was sent for to Tlemcen by the new sultan. After the death of ʻAbdu l-Azīz, he resided at Fez, enjoying the patronage and confidence of the regent.\n\nIbn Khaldūn's political skills and, above all, his good relationship with the wild Berber tribes were in high demand among the North African rulers, but he had begun to tire of politics and constantly switching allegiances. In 1375, he was sent by Abū Hammu, the ʻAbdu l Wadid Sultan of Tlemcen, on a mission to the Dawadida Arabs tribes of Biskra. After his return to the West, Ibn Khaldūn sought refuge with one of the Berber tribes in the west of Algeria, in the town of Qalat Ibn Salama. He lived there for over three years under their protection, taking advantage of his seclusion to write the \"Muqaddimah\" \"Prolegomena\", the introduction to his planned history of the world. In Ibn Salama, however, he lacked the necessary texts to complete the work. Therefore, in 1378, he returned to his native Tunis, which had meanwhile been conquered by Abū l-Abbas, who took Ibn Khaldūn back into his service. There, he devoted himself almost exclusively to his studies and completed his history of the world. His relationship with Abū l-Abbas remained strained, as the latter questioned his loyalty. That was brought into sharp contrast after Ibn Khaldūn presented him with a copy of the completed history that omitted the usual panegyric to the ruler. Under pretence of going on the Hajj to Mecca, something a Muslim ruler could not simply refuse permission for Ibn Khaldūn was able to leave Tunis and to sail to Alexandria.\n\nIbn Khaldun said of Egypt, \"He who has not seen it does not know the power of Islam.\" While other Islamic regions had to cope with border wars and inner strife, the Mamluks let Egypt experience a period of economic prosperity and high culture. However, even in Egypt, where Ibn Khaldūn lived out his days, he could not stay out of politics completely. In 1384, the Egyptian Sultan, al-Malik udh-Dhahir Barquq, made him professor of the Qamhiyyah Madrasah and the grand qadi of the Maliki school of fiqh (one of four schools, the Maliki school was widespread primarily in Western Africa). His efforts at reform encountered resistance, however, and within a year, he had to resign his judgeship. A contributory factor to his decision to resign may have been the heavy personal blow that struck him in 1384, when a ship carrying his wife and children sank off the coast of Alexandria. Ibn Khaldun now decided to complete the pilgrimage to Mecca, after all.\n\nAfter his return in May 1388, Ibn Khaldūn concentrated more strongly on a purely-educational function at various Cairo madrasas. At court, he fell out of favor for a time, as during revolts against Barquq, he had, apparently under duress, with other Cairo jurists, issued a fatwa against Barquq. Later relations with Barquq returned to normal, and he was once again named the Maliki \"qadi\". Altogether, he was called six times to that high office, which, for various reasons, he never held long.\n\nIn 1401, under Barquq's successor, his son Faraj, Ibn Khaldūn took part in a military campaign against the Mongol conqueror, Timur, who besieged Damascus in 1400. Ibn Khaldūn cast doubt upon the viability of the venture and really wanted to stay in Egypt. His doubts were vindicated, as the young and inexperienced Faraj, concerned about a revolt in Egypt, left his army to its own devices in Syria and hurried home. Ibn Khaldūn remained at the besieged city for seven weeks, being lowered over the city wall by ropes to negotiate with Timur, in a historic series of meetings that he reported extensively in his autobiography. Timur questioned him in detail about conditions in the lands of the Maghreb. At his request, Ibn Khaldūn even wrote a long report about it. As he recognized Timur's intentions, he did not hesitate, on his return to Egypt, to compose an equally-extensive report on the history of the Tatars, together with a character study of Timur, sending them to the Merinid rulers in Fez (Maghreb).\n\nIbn Khaldūn spent the next five years in Cairo completing his autobiography and his history of the world and acting as teacher and judge. Meanwhile, he was alleged to have joined an underground party, Rijal Hawa Rijal, whose reform-oriented ideals attracted the attention of local political authorities. The elderly Ibn Khaldun was placed under arrest. He died on 17 March 1406, one month after his sixth selection for the office of the Maliki \"qadi\" (Judge).\n\nIbn Khaldūn main work is the Kitāb al-ʻIbar or \"Book of Lessons\" (full title: \"Kitāb al-ʻIbar wa-Dīwān al-Mubtadaʼ wa-l-Khabar fī Taʼrīkh al-ʻArab wa-l-Barbar wa-Man ʻĀṣarahum min Dhawī ash-Shaʼn al-Akbār\" \"Book of Lessons, Record of Beginnings and Events in the History of the Arabs and the Berbers and Their Powerful Contemporaries\"), originally conceived as a history of the Berbers but later expanded in focus to a universal history.\n\nThe \"Kitāb al-ʻIbār\" divides into seven books. Al-\"Muqaddimah\" (Introduction), is considered the first book. Books Two to Five cover World History of Humanity up to the authors own time. Books Six and Seven give the history of the Berber peoples and the Maghreb. Despite errors originating in the 14th century Fez work, Rawḍ al-Qirṭās, (probably by Ibn Abi Zar), from which Khaldun drew upon, al-'Ibar remains an important source for Berber history. The historiographical work has been further criticised for its synthesis of multiple (sometimes contradictory) sources in the absence of original citations, and here Khaldun departs from the classical style of Arab historians such as Ibrahim ibn ar-Raqīq (~d.1028) or al-Mālikī.\n\nConcerning the discipline of sociology, he described the dichotomy of sedentary life versus nomadic life as well as the inevitable loss of power that occurs when warriors conquer a city. According to the Arab scholar Sati' al-Husri, the \"Muqaddimah\" may be read as a sociological work. The work is based around Ibn Khaldun's central concept of \"'aṣabiyyah\", which has been translated as \"social cohesion\", \"group solidarity\", or \"tribalism\". This social cohesion arises spontaneously in tribes and other small kinship groups; it can be intensified and enlarged by a religious ideology. Ibn Khaldun's analysis looks at how this cohesion carries groups to power but contains within itself the seeds – psychological, sociological, economic, political – of the group's downfall, to be replaced by a new group, dynasty or empire bound by a stronger (or at least younger and more vigorous) cohesion. Some of Ibn Khaldun's views, particularly those concerning the \"Zanj\" people of sub-Saharan Africa, have been cited as a racist, though they were not uncommon for their time. According to the scholar Abdelmajid Hannoum, Ibn Khaldun's description of the distinctions between Berbers and Arabs were misinterpreted by the translator William McGuckin de Slane, who wrongly inserted a \"racial ideology that sets Arabs and Berbers apart and in opposition\" into his translation of the \"Muqaddimah\".\n\nPerhaps the most frequently cited observation drawn from Ibn Khaldūn's work is the notion that when a society becomes a great civilization (and, presumably, the dominant culture in its region), its high point is followed by a period of decay. This means that the next cohesive group that conquers the diminished civilization is, by comparison, a group of barbarians. Once the barbarians solidify their control over the conquered society, however, they become attracted to its more refined aspects, such as literacy and arts, and either assimilate into or appropriate such cultural practices. Then, eventually, the former barbarians will be conquered by a new set of barbarians, who will repeat the process. One contemporary reader of Khaldun has read this as an early business cycle theory, though set in the historical circumstances of the mature Islamic empire.\n\nIbn Khaldun outlines an early example of political economy. He describes the economy as being composed of value-adding processes; that is, labour and skill is added to techniques and crafts and the product is sold at a higher value . He also made the distinction between \"profit\" and \"sustenance\", in modern political economy terms, surplus and that required for the reproduction of classes respectively. He also calls for the creation of a science to explain society and goes on to outline these ideas in his major work, the \"Muqaddimah\". Ibn Khaldun diverged from norms that Muslim historians followed and rejected their focus on the credibility of the transmitter and focused instead on the validity of the stories and encouraged critical thinking.\n\nIbn Khaldun also believed that the currency of an Islamic monetary system should have intrinsic value and therefore be made of gold and silver (such as the dirham). He emphasized that the weight and purity of these coins should be strictly followed: the weight of one dinar should be one \"mithqal\" (the weight of 72 grains of barley, roughly 4.25 grams) and the weight of 7 dinar should be equal to weight of 10 dirhams (7/10 of a \"mithqal\" or 2.96 grams).\n\nIbn Khaldun's epistemology attempted to reconcile mysticism with theology by dividing science into two different categories, the religious science that regards the sciences of the Qur'an and the non-religious science. He further classified the non-religious sciences into intellectual sciences such as logic, arithmetic, geometry, astronomy, etc. and auxiliary sciences such as language, literature, poetry, etc. He also suggested that possibly more divisions will appear in the future with different societies. He tried to adapt to all possible societies’ cultural behavior and influence in education, economics and politics. Nonetheless, he didn't think that laws were chosen by just one leader or a small group of individual but mostly by the majority of the individuals of a society.\n\nTo Ibn Khaldun, the state was a necessity of human society to restrain injustice within the society, but the state means is force, thus itself an injustice. All societies must have a state governing them in order to establish a society. He attempted to standardize the history of societies by identifying ubiquitous phenomena present in all societies. To him, civilization was a phenomena that will be present as long as humans exist. He characterized the fulfillment of basic needs as the beginning of civilization. At the beginning, people will look for different ways of increasing productivity of basic needs and expansion will occur. Later the society starts becoming more sedentary and focuses more on crafting, arts and the more refined characteristics. By the end of a society, it will weaken, allowing another small group of individuals to come into control. The conquering group is described as an unsatisfied group within the society itself or a group of desert bandits that constantly attack other weaker or weakened societies.\n\nIn the Muqaddimah, his most important work, he thoughtfully and scrupulously discusses an introduction of philosophy to history in a general manner, based on observable patterns within a theoretical framework of known historical events of his time. He described the beginnings, development, cultural trends and the fall of all societies, leading to the rise of a new society which would then follow the same trends in a continuous cycle. Ibn Khaldun did not create a perfect model for a society during his life, but he did think there was a need for a new model to manage society to ensure its continuous economic growth. Also, he recommended the best political approaches to develop a society according to his knowledge of history. He heavily emphasized that a good society would be one in which a tradition of education is deeply rooted in its culture.\nIbn Khaldun (1987) introduced word asabiya (solidarity, group feeling, or group consciousness), to explain tribalism. The concept of asabiya has been translated as \"social cohesion,\" \"group solidarity,\" or \"tribalism.\" This social cohesion arises spontaneously in tribes and other small kinship groups (Rashed,2017).\n\nIbn Khaldun believed that too much bureaucracy, such as taxes and legislations, would lead to the decline of a society, since it would constrain the development of more specialized labor (increase in scholars and development of different services). He believed that bureaucrats cannot understand the world of commerce and do not possess the same motivation as a businessman.\n\nIn his work the Muqaddimah, Ibn Khaldun emphasizes human beings' faculty to think (\"fikr\") as what determines human behavior and ubiquitous patterns. This faculty is also what inspires human beings to form into a social structure to co-operate in division of labor and organization. According to Zaid Ahmand in \"Epistemology and the Human Dimension in Urban Studies\", the \"fikr\" faculty is the supporting pillar for all philosophical aspects of Ibn Khaldun's theory related to human beings’ spiritual, intellectual, physical, social and political tendencies.\n\nAnother important concept he emphasizes in his work is the mastery of crafts, habits and skills. These takes place after a society is established and according to Ibn Khaldun the level of achievement of a society can be determined by just analyzing these three concepts. A society in its earliest stages is nomadic and primarily concerned with survival, while a society at a later stage is sedentary, with greater achievement in crafts. A society with a sedentary culture and stable politics would be expected to have greater achievements in crafts and technology.\n\nIbn Khaldun also emphasized in his epistemology theory the important aspect that educational tradition plays to ensure the new generations of a civilization continuously improve in the sciences and develop culture. Ibn Khaldun argued that without the strong establishment of an educational tradition, it would be very difficult for the new generations to maintain the achievements of the earlier generations, let alone improve them.\n\nAnother way to distinguish the achievement of a society would be the language factor of a society, since for him the most important element of a society would not be land, but the language spoken by them. He was surprised that many non-Arabs were really successful in the Arabic society, had good jobs and were well received by the community. \"These people were non-Arab by descent, but they grew up among the Arabs who possessed the habit of Arabic,\" Ibn Khaldun once recalled, \"[b]ecause of this, they were able to master Arabic so well that they cannot be surpassed.\" He believed that the reason why non-Arabs were accepted as part of Arab society was due to their mastery of the Arabic language.\n\nAdvancements in literary works such as poems and prose where another way to distinguish the achievement of a civilization, but Ibn Khaldun believed that whenever the literary facet of a society reaches its highest levels it ceases to indicate societal achievements anymore, but is an embellishment of life. For logical sciences he established knowledge at its highest level as an increase of scholars and the quality of knowledge. For him the highest level of literary productions would be the manifestation of prose, poems and the artistic enrichment of a society.\n\nFrom other sources we know of several other works, primarily composed during the time he spent in North Africa and Al-Andalus. His first book, \"Lubābu l-Muhassal\", a commentary on the Islamic theology of Fakhr al-Din al-Razi, was written at the age of 19 under the supervision of his teacher al-Ābilī in Tunis. A work on Sufism, \"Shifā'u l-Sā'il\", was composed around 1373 in Fes, Morocco. Whilst at the court of Muhammed V, Sultan of Granada, Ibn Khaldūn composed a work on logic, \"ʻallaqa li-s-Sulṭān\".\n\nIbn Khaldun's historical method had very few precedents or followers in his time. While Ibn Khaldun is known to have been a successful lecturer on jurisprudence within religious sciences, only very few of his students were aware of, and influenced by, his Muqaddimah. One such student, Al-Maqrizi, praised the Muqaddimah, although some scholars have found his praise, and that of others, to be generally empty and lacking understanding of Ibn Khaldun's methods.\n\nIbn Khaldun also faced primarily criticism from his contemporaries, particularly Ibn Hajar al-`Asqalani. These criticisms included accusations of inadequate historical knowledge, an inaccurate title, disorganization, and a style resembling that of the prolific Arab literature writer, Al-Jahiz. Al-Asqalani also noted that Ibn Khaldun was not well-liked in Egypt because he opposed many respected traditions, including the traditional judicial dress, and suggested that this may have contributed to the reception of Ibn Khaldun's historical works. The notable exception to this consensus was Ibn al-Azraq, a jurist who lived shortly after Ibn Khaldun and quoted heavily from the first and fourth books of the Kitab al-‘Ibar, in developing a work of mirrors for princes.\n\nIbn Khaldun's work found some recognition with Ottoman intellectuals in the 17th century. The first references to Ibn Khaldun in Ottoman writings appeared in the middle of the 17th century, with historians such as Kâtip Çelebi naming him as a great influence, while another Turkish Ottoman historian, Mustafa Naima, attempted to use Ibn Khaldun's cyclical theory of the rise and fall of empires to describe the Ottoman Empire. Increasing perceptions of the decline of the Ottoman Empire also caused similar ideas to appear independently of Ibn Khaldun in the 16th century, and may explain some of the influence of his works.\n\nIn Europe, Ibn Khaldun was first brought to the attention of the Western world in 1697, when a biography of him appeared in Barthélemy d'Herbelot de Molainville's \"Bibliothèque Orientale\". However, some scholars believe that Ibn Khaldun's work may have first been introduced to Europe via Ibn Arabshah's biography of Tamerlane, translated to Latin, which covers a meeting between Ibn Khaldun and Tamerlane. According to Ibn Arabshah, during this meeting, Ibn Khaldun and Tamerlane discussed the Maghrib in depth, as well as Tamerlane's genealogy and place in history. Ibn Khaldun began gaining more attention from 1806, when Silvestre de Sacy's \"Chrestomathie Arabe\" included his biography together with a translation of parts of the \"Muqaddimah\" as the \"Prolegomena\". In 1816, de Sacy again published a biography with a more detailed description on the \"Prolegomena\". More details on and partial translations of the \"Prolegomena\" emerged over the years until the complete Arabic edition was published in 1858. Since then, the work of Ibn Khaldun has been extensively studied in the Western world with special interest.\n\nEarly European works on Ibn Khaldun suffered heavily from colonial influences and orientalism, as many sociologists considered North Africa to be unworthy of studying in the19th century. Additionally, many sociologists viewed Ibn Khaldun as the only North African sociologist worth studying. Reynold A. Nicholson praised Ibn Khaldun as a uniquely brilliant Muslim sociologist, but discounted Khaldun's influence. Spanish Philosopher José Ortega y Gasset viewed the conflicts of North Africa as a problem that stemmed from a lack of African thought, and praised Ibn Khaldun for making sense of the conflict by simplifying it to the relationship between the nomadic and sedentary modes of life.\n\nIbn Khaldun's contributions to economics were ignored by historians like Joseph Schumpeter, who wrote that \"we may safely leap over 500 years to the epoch of St Thomas Aquinas\" as late as 1954. While Ibn Khaldun lived after St Thomas Aquinas, Schumpeter makes only passing references to Khaldun, and excludes Khaldun's predecessors. However, modern historians have recognized the contributions of Ibn Khaldun and many of his predecessors.\n\nModern historians have also been complimentary in their analysis of Ibn Khaldun's works, and acknowledgement of his contemporaries or standing compared to European scholars is increasingly common. Influential British historian and international affairs specialist Arnold J. Toynbee has called Ibn Khaldun's Muqaddimah \"the greatest work of its kind.\" Ernest Gellner, once a professor of philosophy and logic at the London School of Economics, considered Khaldun's definition of government the best in the history of political theory.\n\nMore moderate views on the scope of Ibn Khaldun's contributions have emerged. Arthur Laffer, for whom the Laffer curve is named, acknowledged that Ibn Khaldun's ideas, as well as others, precede his own work on that curve. A focus on understanding the nuances of Ibn Khaldun's contributions is present, with scholars commenting on the specifics of Khaldun's work, such as \"Ibn Khaldun chose to ignore all those crafts which are neither necessary . . . nor honorable\" and that Ibn Khaldun \"depicts what really happens. . . . he does not discuss whether the state ought, or ought not, to interfere\".\n\nAs a historian and sociologist, Ibn Khaldun was recognized by the British philosopher Robert Flint, who wrote: \"as a theorist of history he had no equal in any age or country until Vico appeared, more than three hundred years later. Plato, Aristotle, and Augustine were not his peers, and all others were unworthy of being even mentioned along with him\". Ibn Khaldun's work on evolution of societies also influenced Egon Orowan, who termed the concept of \"socionomy\". While Ibn Khaldun's record-keeping is usually passed over in favor of recognizing his contributions to the science of history, Abderrahmane Lakhsassi wrote \"No historian of the Maghreb since and particularly of the Berbers can do without his historical contribution.\"\n\nPublic recognition of Ibn Khaldun has increased in recent years. In 2004, the Tunisian Community Center launched the first Ibn Khaldun Award to recognize a Tunisian/American high achiever whose work reflects Ibn Khaldun's ideas of kinship and solidarity. The Award was named after Ibn Khaldun for him being universally acknowledged as the Father of Sociology and also for the convergence of his ideas with the organization's objectives and programs. In 2006, the Atlas Economic Research Foundation launched an annual essay contest for students named in Ibn Khaldun's honor. The theme of the contest is \"how individuals, think tanks, universities and entrepreneurs can influence government policies to allow the free market to flourish and improve the lives of its citizens based on Islamic teachings and traditions.\" In 2006, Spain commemorated the 600th anniversary of the death of Ibn Khaldun, by orchestrating an exhibit titled \"Encounter of Civilizations: Ibn Khaldun.\" In 2011, Ibn Khaldun's birthday was recognized by a Google Doodle, which was publicized in North Africa and the Arabian Peninsula.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15179", "title": "Indira Gandhi", "text": "Indira Gandhi\n\nIndira Priyadarshini Gandhi (; née Nehru; November 19, 1917 – October 31, 1984), was an Indian politician, stateswoman and a central figure of the Indian National Congress. She was the first and, to date, the only female Prime Minister of India. Indira Gandhi was the daughter of Jawaharlal Nehru, the first prime minister of India. Despite her surname \"Gandhi\", she is not related to the family of Mahatma Gandhi; Gandhi is a common surname in Gujarat. She served as Prime Minister from January 1966 to March 1977 and again from January 1980 until her assassination in October 1984, making her the second longest-serving Indian Prime Minister after her father. \nGandhi served as her father's personal assistant and hostess during his tenure as Prime Minister between 1947 and 1964. She was elected President of the Indian National Congress in 1959. Upon her father's death in 1964 she was appointed as a member of the Rajya Sabha (upper house) and became a member of Lal Bahadur Shastri's cabinet as Minister of Information and Broadcasting. In the Congress Party's parliamentary leadership election held in early 1966 (upon the death of Shastri), she defeated her rival Morarji Desai, to become leader, and thus succeeded Shastri as Prime Minister of India.\n\nAs Prime Minister, Gandhi was known for her political intransigency and unprecedented centralisation of power. She went to war with Pakistan in support of the independence movement and war of independence in East Pakistan, which resulted in an Indian victory and the creation of Bangladesh, as well as increasing India's influence to the point where it became the regional hegemon of South Asia. Citing fissiparous tendencies and in response to a call for revolution, Gandhi instituted a state of emergency from 1975 to 1977 where basic civil liberties were suspended and the press was censored. Widespread atrocities were carried out during the emergency. In 1980, she returned to power after free and fair elections. After Operation Blue Star, she was assassinated by her own bodyguards and Sikh nationalists on 31 October 1984. The assassins, Beant Singh and Satwant Singh, were both shot by other security guards. Satwant Singh recovered from his injuries and was executed after being convicted of murder.\n\nIn 1999, Indira Gandhi was named \"Woman of the Millennium\" in an online poll organised by the BBC.\n\nIndira Gandhi was born as Indira Nehru in a Kashmiri Pandit family on 19 November 1917 in Allahabad. Her father, Jawaharlal Nehru, was a leading figure in India's political struggle for independence from British rule, and became the first Prime Minister of the Dominion (and later Republic) of India. She was the only child (a younger brother was born, but died young), and grew up with her mother, Kamala Nehru, at the Anand Bhavan; a large family estate in Allahabad. She had a lonely and unhappy childhood. Her father was often away, directing political activities or incarcerated, while her mother was frequently bed-ridden with illness, and later suffered an early death from tuberculosis. She had limited contact with her father, mostly through letters.\n\nIndira was mostly taught at home by tutors, and intermittently attended school until matriculation in 1934. She was a student at the Modern School in Delhi, St Cecilia's and St Mary's Christian convent schools in Allahabad, the International School of Geneva, the Ecole Nouvelle in Bex, and the Pupils' Own School in Poona and Bombay, which is affiliated to University of Mumbai. She and her mother Kamala Nehru moved to Belur Math headquarters of Ramakrishna Mission where Swami Ranganathananda was her guardian later she went on to study at the Visva-Bharati University in Santiniketan. It was during her interview that Rabindranath Tagore named her Priyadarshini, and she came to be known as Indira Priyadarshini Nehru. A year later, however, she had to leave university to attend to her ailing mother in Europe. While there, it was decided that Indira would continue her education at the University of Oxford. After her mother died, she briefly attended the Badminton School before enrolling at Somerville College in 1937 to study history. Indira had to take the entrance examination twice, having failed at her first attempt with a poor performance in Latin. At Oxford, she did well in history, political science and economics, but her grades in Latin—a compulsory subject—remained poor. She did, however, have an active part within the student life of the university, such as the Oxford Majlis Asian Society. \nOn 26 September 1981, Mrs Indira Gandhi, was conferred with the Honorory Degree of Doctor at the Laucala Graduation at the University of the South Pacific in Fiji.\n\nDuring her time in Europe, Indira was plagued with ill-health and was constantly attended to by doctors. She had to make repeated trips to Switzerland to recover, disrupting her studies. She was being treated there in 1940, when the German armies rapidly conquered Europe. Gandhi tried to return to England through Portugal but was left stranded for nearly two months. She managed to enter England in early 1941, and from there returned to India without completing her studies at Oxford. The university later awarded her an honorary degree. In 2010, Oxford further honoured her by selecting her as one of the ten Oxasians, illustrious Asian graduates from the University of Oxford. \nDuring her stay in Great Britain, Indira frequently met her future husband Feroze Gandhi (no relation to Mahatma Gandhi), whom she knew from Allahabad, and who was studying at the London School of Economics. The marriage took place in Allahabad according to Adi Dharm rituals though Feroze belonged to a Zoroastrian Parsi family of Gujarat. The couple had two sons, Rajiv Gandhi (born 1944) and Sanjay Gandhi (born 1946).\n\nIn the 1950s, Indira, now Mrs Indira Gandhi after her marriage, served her father unofficially as a personal assistant during his tenure as the first Prime Minister of India. Towards the end of the 1950s, Indira Gandhi served as the President of the Congress. In that capacity, she was instrumental in getting the Communist led Kerala State Government dismissed in 1959. That government had the distinction of being India's first ever elected Communist Government. After her father's death in 1964 she was appointed as a member of the Rajya Sabha (upper house) and served in Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri's cabinet as Minister of Information and Broadcasting. In January 1966, after Shastri's death, the Congress legislative party elected Indira Gandhi over Morarji Desai as their leader. Congress party veteran K. Kamaraj was instrumental in achieving Indira's victory. Because she was a woman, other political leaders in India saw Gandhi as weak and hoped to use her as a puppet once elected: Congress President Kamaraj orchestrated Mrs. Gandhi's selection as prime minister because he perceived her to be weak enough that he and the other regional party bosses could control her, and yet strong enough to beat Desai [her political opponent] in a party election because of the high regard for her father...a woman would be an ideal tool for the Syndicate.\n\nThe first eleven years of Indira's position as prime minister saw her evolving from the perception of Congress party leaders as their puppet to a strong leader with the iron resolve to split the party for her policy positions or to go to war with Pakistan to liberate Bangladesh. At the end of this term in 1977, she was such a dominating figure in Indian politics that a Congress party president had coined the phrase \"India is Indira and Indira is India.\"\n\nIndira formed her government with Morarji Desai as deputy prime minister and finance minister. At the beginning of her first term as prime minister, Indira was widely criticized by the media and the opposition as a \"Goongi goodiya\" (Hindi word for a dumb doll or puppet) of the Congress party bosses who had got her elected and tried to constrain her.\n\nThe first electoral test for Indira was the 1967 general elections for the Lok sabha and state assemblies. The Congress Party won a reduced majority for the Lok sabha in these elections owing to widespread disenchantment over rising prices of commodities, unemployment, economic stagnation and a food crisis. Indira Gandhi had started on a rocky note after agreeing to a devaluation of the rupee, which created much hardship for Indian businesses and consumers, and the import of wheat from the United States fell through due to political disputes.\n\nThe party also for the first time lost power or lost majority in a number of states across the country. Following the 1967 elections, Indira Gandhi gradually started moving towards socialist policies. In 1969, she fell out with senior Congress party leaders on a number of issues. Chief among them was the decision by Indira to support V. V. Giri, the independent candidate rather than the official Congress party candidate Neelam Sanjiva Reddy for the vacant position of President of India. The other was the announcement by the prime minister of Bank nationalization without consulting the finance minister, Morarji Desai. These steps culminated in Party president S. Nijalingappa expelling her from the party for indiscipline. Gandhi, in turn floated her own faction of the Congress party and managed to retain most of the Congress MPs on her side with only 65 on the side of Congress (O) faction. The Indira faction, called Congress (R), lost its majority in the parliament but remained in power with the support of regional parties such as DMK. The policies of the Congress under Indira Gandhi, prior to the 1971 elections, also included proposals for the abolition of Privy Purse to former rulers of the Princely states and the 1969 nationalization of the fourteen largest banks in India.\n\nGaribi Hatao (Eradicate Poverty) was the theme for Gandhi's 1971 political bid. On the other hand, the combined opposition alliance had a two word manifesto of \"Indira Hatao\" (Remove Indira). The Garibi Hatao slogan and the proposed anti-poverty programs that came with it were designed to give Gandhi an independent national support, based on rural and urban poor. This would allow her to bypass the dominant rural castes both in and of state and local governments; likewise the urban commercial class. And, for their part, the previously voiceless poor would at last gain both political worth and political weight. The programs created through Garibi Hatao, though carried out locally, were funded and developed by the Central Government in New Delhi. The program was supervised and staffed by the Indian National Congress party. \"These programs also provided the central political leadership with new and vast patronage resources to be disbursed... throughout the country.\",\n\nThe biggest achievement of Indira Gandhi after the 1971 election came in December 1971 with India's decisive victory over Pakistan in the liberation war, that led to the formation of independent Bangladesh. She was hailed as Goddess Durga by opposition leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee at that time. In the elections held for State assemblies across India in March 1972, the Congress (R) swept to power in most states riding on the post-war \"Indira wave\".\n\nDespite the victory against Pakistan, the Congress government faced numerous problems during this term. Some of these were due to high inflation which was in turn caused by war time expenses, drought in some parts of the country and more importantly, the 1973 oil crisis. The opposition to Gandhi in 1973–75 period, after the Indira wave had receded, was strongest in the states of Bihar and Gujarat. In Bihar, Jayaprakash Narayan, the veteran leader came out of retirement to lead the protest movement there.\n\nOn 12 June 1975, the Allahabad High Court declared Indira Gandhi's election to the Lok Sabha in 1971 void on grounds of electoral malpractice. In an election petition filed by her 1971 opponent, Raj Narain (who later on defeated her in 1977 parliamentary election from Raebareli), alleged several major as well as minor instances of using government resources for campaigning. The court ordered her stripped of her parliamentary seat and banned from running for any office for six years. According to constitution, the Prime Minister must be a member of either the Lok Sabha (the lower house in the Parliament of India) or a member of the Rajya Sabha (the upper house). Thus, this decision effectively removed her from office. Gandhi had asked one of her colleagues in government, Mr. Ashoke Kumar Sen to defend her in court.\n\nBut Gandhi rejected calls to resign and announced plans to appeal to the Supreme Court. The verdict was delivered by Mr Justice Jagmohanlal Sinha at Allahabad High Court. It came almost four years after the case was brought by Raj Narain, the premier's defeated opponent in the 1971 parliamentary election. Gandhi, who gave evidence in her defence during the trial, was found guilty of dishonest election practices, excessive election expenditure, and of using government machinery and officials for party purposes. The judge, however, rejected more serious charges of bribery against her.\n\nGandhi insisted that the conviction did not undermine her position, despite having been unseated from the lower house of parliament, Lok Sabha, by order of the High Court. She said: \"There is a lot of talk about our government not being clean, but from our experience the situation was very much worse when [opposition] parties were forming governments\". And she dismissed criticism of the way her Congress Party raised election campaign money, saying all parties used the same methods. The prime minister retained the support of her party, which issued a statement backing her. After news of the verdict spread, hundreds of supporters demonstrated outside her house, pledging their loyalty. Indian High Commissioner BK Nehru said Gandhi's conviction would not harm her political career. \"Mrs Gandhi has still today overwhelming support in the country,\" he said. \"I believe the prime minister of India will continue in office until the electorate of India decides otherwise\".\n\nGandhi moved to restore order by ordering the arrest of most of the opposition participating in the unrest. Her Cabinet and government then recommended that President Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed declare a state of emergency because of the disorder and lawlessness following the Allahabad High Court decision. Accordingly, Ahmed declared a State of Emergency caused by internal disorder, based on the provisions of Article 352(1) of the Constitution, on 25 June 1975.\n\nWithin a few months, President's rule was imposed on the two opposition party ruled states of Gujarat and Tamil Nadu thereby bringing the entire country under direct Central rule or by governments led by the ruling Congress party. Police were granted powers to impose curfews and indefinitely detain citizens and all publications were subjected to substantial censorship by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Finally, the impending legislative assembly elections were indefinitely postponed, with all opposition-controlled state governments being removed by virtue of the constitutional provision allowing for a dismissal of a state government on recommendation of the state's governor.\n\nIndira Gandhi used the emergency provisions to change conflicting party members.\nPresident Ahmed issued ordinances that did not require debate in the Parliament, allowing Gandhi to rule by decree.\n\nThe Emergency saw the entry of Gandhi's younger son, Sanjay Gandhi, into Indian Politics. Sanjay wielded tremendous power during the emergency without holding any Government office. According to Mark Tully, \"His inexperience did not stop him from using the Draconian powers his mother, Indira Gandhi, had taken to terrorise the administration, setting up what was in effect a police state.\"\n\nIt was said that during the Emergency he virtually ran India along with his friends, especially Bansi Lal. It was also quipped that Sanjay Gandhi had total control over his mother and that the government was run by the PMH (Prime Minister House) rather than the PMO (Prime Minister Office).\n\nIn 1977, after extending the state of emergency twice, Indira Gandhi called elections to give the electorate a chance to vindicate her rule. Gandhi may have grossly misjudged her popularity by reading what the heavily censored press wrote about her. In any case, she was opposed by the Janata alliance of Opposition parties. The alliance was made up of Bharatiya Jana Sangh, Congress (O), The Socialist parties, and Charan Singh's Bharatiya Kranti Dal representing northern peasant and farmers. Janata alliance, with Jai Prakash Narayan as its spiritual guide, claimed the elections were the last chance for India to choose between \"democracy and dictatorship.\" The Congress Party split during the election campaign of 1977: veteran Indira supporters like Jagjivan Ram, Hemvati Nandan Bahuguna and Nandini Satpathy were compelled to part ways and form a new political entity, CFD (Congress for Democracy), primarily due to intra-party politicking and also due to circumstances created by Sanjay Gandhi. The prevailing rumour was that Sanjay had intentions of dislodging Gandhi and the trio stood between that. Gandhi's Congress party was crushed soundly in the elections. The public realized the statement and motto of the Janata Party alliance. Indira and Sanjay Gandhi both lost their seats, and Congress was cut down to 153 seats (compared with 350 in the previous Lok Sabha), 92 of which were in the South. The Janata alliance, under the leadership of Morarji Desai, came into power after the State of Emergency was lifted. The alliance parties later merged to form the Janata Party under the guidance of Gandhian leader, Jayaprakash Narayan. The other leaders of the Janata Party were Charan Singh, Raj Narain, George Fernandes and Atal Bihari Vajpayee.\n\nSince Gandhi had lost her seat in the election, the defeated Congress party appointed Yashwantrao Chavan as their parliamentary party leader. Soon afterwards, the Congress party split again with Gandhi floating her own Congress faction. She won a by-election from the Chikmagalur Constituency to the Lok Sabha in November 1978. However, the Janata government's Home Minister, Choudhary Charan Singh, ordered the arrest of her and Sanjay Gandhi on several charges, none of which would be easy to prove in an Indian court. The arrest meant that Indira Gandhi was automatically expelled from Parliament. These allegations included that she \"had planned or thought of killing all opposition leaders in jail during the Emergency\". In response to her arrest, Indira Gandhi's supporters hijacked an Indian Airlines jet and demanded her immediate release. However, this strategy backfired disastrously. Her arrest and long-running trial gained her great sympathy from many people. The Janata coalition was only united by its hatred of Gandhi (or \"that woman\" as some called her). The party included right wing Hindu Nationalists, Socialists and former Congress party members. With so little in common, the Morarji Desai government was bogged down by infighting. In 1979, the government started to unravel over the issue of dual loyalties of some members to Janata and the RSS. The ambitious Union Finance minister, Charan Singh, who as the Union Home Minister during the previous year had ordered arrest of Gandhi, took advantage of this and started courting the Congress. After a significant exodus from the party to Charan Singh's faction, Desai resigned in July 1979. Charan Singh was appointed Prime Minister, by President Reddy, after Indira and Sanjay Gandhi promised Singh that Congress would support his government from outside on certain conditions. The conditions included dropping all charges against Indira and Sanjay. Since Charan Singh refused to drop the charges, Congress withdrew its support and President Reddy dissolved Parliament in August 1979.\n\nBefore the 1980 elections Gandhi approached the then Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid, Syed Abdullah Bukhari and entered into an agreement with him on the basis of 10-point programme to secure the support of the Muslim votes. In the elections held in January, Congress returned to power with a landslide majority.\n\nThe Congress under Gandhi swept back to power in January 1980. Elections soon after to legislative assemblies in States ruled by opposition parties brought back Congress ministries to those states. Indira's son, Sanjay Gandhi selected his own loyalists to head the governments in these states. On 23 June, Gandhi's son Sanjay was killed in an air crash while performing an aerobatic manoeuvre in New Delhi. In 1980, as tribute to hers son's dream of launching an indigenously manufactured, Gandhi nationalized Sanjay's debt ridden company called Maruti Udyog for Rs. 4.34 crore and invited joint venture bids from automobile companies around the world. Suzuki of Japan was selected as the partner. The company launched its first Indian manufactured car in 1984.\n\nGandhi by the time of Sanjay's death only trusted family members, and therefore persuaded her reluctant son, Rajiv, to enter politics.\n\nIn the 1977 elections, a coalition led by the Sikh-majority Akali Dal came to power in the northern Indian state of Punjab. In an effort to split the Akali Dal and gain popular support among the Sikhs, Indira Gandhi's Congress helped bring the orthodox religious leader Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale to prominence in Punjab politics. Later, Bhindranwale's organisation Damdami Taksal became embroiled in violence with another religious sect called the Sant Nirankari Mission, and he was accused of instigating the murder of Jagat Narain, the owner of \"Punjab Kesari\" newspaper After being arrested in this matter, Bhindranwale disassociated himself from Congress and joined hands with the Akali Dal. In July 1982, he led the campaign for the implementation of the Anandpur Resolution, which demanded greater autonomy for the Sikh-majority state. Meanwhile, a small section of the Sikhs, including some of Bhindranwale's followers, turned to militancy after being targeted by government officials and police in support of the Resolution. In 1982, Bhindranwale and approximately 200 armed followers moved into a guest house called the Guru Nanak Niwas, in the precinct of the Golden Temple.\n\nBy 1983, the Temple complex had become a fort for a large number of militants. \"The Statesman\" later reported that light machine guns and semi-automatic rifles were known to have been brought into the compound. On 23 April 1983, the Punjab Police Deputy Inspector General A. S. Atwal was shot dead as he left the Temple compound. The following day, after the murder, Harchand Singh Longowal (then president of Shiromani Akali Dal) confirmed the involvement of Bhindranwale in the murder.\nAfter several futile negotiations, Indira Gandhi ordered the Indian army in June 1984 to enter the Golden Temple in order to remove Bhindranwale and his supporters from the complex. The army used heavy artillery, including tanks, in the action code-named Operation Blue Star. The operation badly damaged or destroyed parts of the Temple complex, including the Akal Takht shrine and the Sikh library. It also led to the deaths of a large number of Sikh fighters and innocent pilgrims. The number of casualties remain disputed with estimates ranging from many hundreds to many thousands\n\nGandhi was accused of using the attack for political ends. Dr. Harjinder Singh Dilgeer stated that Indira Gandhi attacked the temple complex to present herself as a great hero in order to win general elections planned towards the end of 1984. There was fierce criticism of the action by Sikhs in India and overseas. There was also incidents of mutiny by Sikh soldiers in the aftermath of the attack.\n\nThe day before her death (30 October 1984) Indira Gandhi visited Orissa where she gave her last speech at the then Parade Ground in front of the Secretariat of Orissa. In that speech, she strikingly associated her blood with the health of the nation.\n\nOn 31 October 1984, two of Gandhi's bodyguards, Satwant Singh and Beant Singh, shot her with their service weapons in the garden of the Prime Minister's residence at 1 Safdarjung Road, New Delhi. The shooting occurred as she was walking past a wicket gate guarded by Satwant and Beant. She was to be interviewed by the British actor Peter Ustinov, who was filming a documentary for Irish television. Beant Singh shot her three times using his side-arm and Satwant Singh fired 30 rounds. Beant Singh and Satwant Singh dropped their weapons and surrendered. Afterwards, they were taken away by other guards into a closed room where Beant Singh was shot dead. Kehar Singh was later arrested for conspiracy in the attack. Both Satwant and Kehar were sentenced to death and hanged in Delhi's Tihar Jail.\n\nIndira Gandhi was brought at 9:30 AM to the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences where doctors operated on her. She was declared dead at 2:20 PM. The post-mortem examination was conducted by a team of doctors headed by Dr. Tirath Das Dogra. Dr Dogra stated that as many as 30 bullet wounds were sustained by Indira Gandhi, from two sources, a Sterling submachine gun and a pistol. The assailants had fired 31 bullets at her, of which 30 had hit; 23 had passed through her body while 7 were trapped inside her. Dr Dogra extracted bullets to establish the identity of the weapons and to match each weapon with the bullets recovered by ballistic examination. The bullets were matched with respective weapons at CFSL Delhi. Subsequently, Dr Dogra appeared in the court of Shri Mahesh Chandra as an expert witness (PW-5), and his testimony lasted several sessions. The cross examination was conducted by Shri Pran Nath Lekhi, the defence counsel. Salma Sultan gave the first news of the assassination of Indira Gandhi on Doordarshan's evening news on 31 October 1984, more than 10 hours after she was shot. She died two weeks and five days before her 67th birthday.\n\nGandhi was cremated on 3 November near Raj Ghat. The site where she was cremated is today known as Shakti Sthal.\n\nHer funeral was televised live on domestic and international stations, including the BBC. Following her cremation, millions of Sikhs were displaced and nearly three thousand were killed in anti-Sikh riots. Rajiv Gandhi on a live TV show said of the carnage, \"When a big tree falls, the earth shakes.\"\n\nIndira Gandhi is remembered for her ability to effectively promote Indian foreign policy measures.\n\nIn early 1971, disputed elections in Pakistan led the then East Pakistan to declare independence as Bangladesh. Repression and violence by the Pakistani army led 10 million refugees to cross border in to India over the coming months. Finally in December 1971, Gandhi directly intervened in the conflict to liberate Bangladesh. India emerged victorious in the resulting conflict to become the dominant power of South Asia. India had signed a treaty with the Soviet Union promising mutual assistance in the case of war, while Pakistan received active support from the United States during the conflict. U.S. President Richard Nixon disliked Gandhi personally, referring to her as a \"witch\" and \"clever fox\" in his private communication with Secretary of State Henry Kissinger. Nixon later wrote of the war: \"[Gandhi] suckered [America]. Suckered us...this woman suckered us.\". Relations with the U.S. became distant as Gandhi developed closer ties with the Soviet Union after the war. The latter grew to become India's largest trading partner and its biggest arms supplier for much of Gandhi's premiership. India's new hegemonic position as articulated under the \"Indira Doctrine\" led to attempts to bring the Himalayan states under the Indian sphere of influence. Nepal and Bhutan remained aligned with India, while in 1975, after years of building up support, Gandhi incorporated Sikkim into India, after a referendum in which a majority of Sikkimese voted to join India. This was denounced as a \"despicable act\" by China.\n\nIndia maintained close ties with neighbouring Bangladesh (formerly East Pakistan) following the Liberation War. Prime Minister Sheikh Mujibur Rahman recognized Gandhi's contributions to the independence of Bangladesh. However, Mujibur Rahman's pro-India policies antagonised many in Bangladeshi politics and the military, who feared that Bangladesh had become a client state of India. The Assassination of Mujibur Rahman in 1975 led to the establishment of Islamist military regimes that sought to distance the country from India. Gandhi's relationship with the military regimes was strained, due to her alleged support of anti-Islamist leftist guerrilla forces in Bangladesh. Generally, however, there was a rapprochement between Gandhi and the Bangladeshi regimes, although issues such as border disputes and the Farakka Dam remained an irritant in bilateral ties. In 2011, the Government of Bangladesh conferred its highest state award posthumously on Gandhi for her \"outstanding contribution\" to the country's independence.\n\nGandhi's approach to dealing with Sri Lanka's ethnic problems was initially accommodating. She enjoyed cordial relations with Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike. In 1974, India ceded the tiny islet of Katchatheevu to Sri Lanka in order to save Bandaranaike's socialist government from a political disaster. However, relations soured over Sri Lanka's turn away from socialism under J. R. Jayewardene, whom Gandhi despised as a \"western puppet.\" India under Gandhi was alleged to have supported LTTE militants in the 1980s to put pressure on Jayewardene to abide by Indian interests. Nevertheless, Gandhi rejected demands to invade Sri Lanka in the aftermath of Black July 1983, an anti-Tamil pogrom carried out by Sinhalese mobs. Gandhi made a statement emphasizing that she stood for the territorial integrity of Sri Lanka, although she also stated that India cannot \"remain a silent spectator to any injustice done to the Tamil community.\"\n\nIndia's relationship with Pakistan remained strained following the Shimla Accord in 1972. Gandhi's authorization of the detonation of a nuclear device at Pokhran in 1974 was viewed by Pakistani leader Zulfikar Ali Bhutto as an attempt to intimidate Pakistan into accepting India's hegemony in the subcontinent. However, in May 1976, Gandhi and Bhutto both agreed to reopen diplomatic establishments and normalize relations. Following the rise to power of General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq in Pakistan in 1978, India's relations with its neighbour reached a nadir. Gandhi accused General Zia of supporting Khalistani militants in Punjab. Military hostilities recommenced in 1984 following Gandhi's authorization of Operation Meghdoot. India was victorious in the resulting Siachen conflict against Pakistan.\n\nIn order to keep the Soviet Union and the United States out of South Asia, Mrs Gandhi was instrumental in establishing the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) in 1983\n\nGandhi remained a staunch supporter of Palestinians in the Arab–Israeli conflict and was critical of the Middle East diplomacy sponsored by the United States. Israel was viewed as a religious state and thus an analogue to India's archrival Pakistan. Indian diplomats also hoped to win Arab support in countering Pakistan in Kashmir. Nevertheless, Gandhi authorized the development of a secret channel of contact and security assistance with Israel in the late 1960s. Her lieutenant, P. V. Narasimha Rao, later became Prime Minister and approved full diplomatic ties with Israel in 1992.\n\nIndia's pro-Arab policy had mixed success. Establishment of close ties with the socialist and secular Baathist regimes to some extent neutralized Pakistani propaganda against India. However, the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971 put the Arab and Muslim states of the Middle East in a dilemma as the war was fought by two states both friendly to the Arabs. The progressive Arab regimes in Egypt, Syria, and Algeria chose to remain neutral, while the conservative pro-American Arab monarchies in Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and United Arab Emirates openly supported Pakistan. Egypt's stance was met with dismay by the Indians, who had come to expect close co-operation with the Baathist regimes. But, the death of Nasser in 1970 and Sadat's growing friendship with Riyadh, and his mounting differences with Moscow, constrained Egypt to a policy of neutrality. Gandhi's overtures to Muammar Gaddafi were rebuffed. Libya agreed with the Arab monarchies in believing that Gandhi's intervention in East Pakistan was an attack against Islam.\n\nThe 1971 war temporarily became a stumbling block in growing Indo-Iranian ties. Although Iran had earlier characterized the Indo-Pakistani war in 1965 as Indian aggression, the Shah had launched an effort at rapprochement with India in 1969 as part of his effort to secure support for a larger Iranian role in the Persian Gulf. Gandhi's tilt towards Moscow and her dismemberment of Pakistan was perceived by the Shah as part of a larger anti-Iran conspiracy involving India, Iraq, and the Soviet Union. Nevertheless, Iran had resisted Pakistani pressure to activate the Baghdad Pact and draw in the Central Treaty Organisation (CENTO) into the conflict. Gradually, Indian and Iranian disillusionment with their respective regional allies led to a renewed partnership between the nations. Gandhi was unhappy with the lack of support from India's Arab allies during the war with Pakistan, while the Shah was apprehensive at the growing friendship between Pakistan and Arab states of the Persian Gulf, specially Saudi Arabia, and the growing influence of Islam in Pakistani society. There was an increase in Indian economic and military co-operation with Iran during the 1970s. The 1974 India-Iranian agreement led to Iran supplying nearly 75 percent of India's crude oil demands. Gandhi appreciated the Shah's disregard of Pan-Islamism in diplomacy.\n\nOne of the major developments in Southeast Asia during Gandhi's premiership was the formation of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in 1967. Relations between ASEAN and India was mutually antagonistic. ASEAN in the Indian perception was linked to the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization (SEATO), and it was therefore, seen as a pro-American organisation. On their part, the ASEAN nations were unhappy with Gandhi's sympathy for the Viet Cong and India's strong links with the USSR. Furthermore, they were also apprehensions in the region about Gandhi's future plans, particularly after India played a big role in breaking up Pakistan and facilitating in the emergence of Bangladesh as a sovereign country in 1971. India's entry into the nuclear weapons club in 1974 contributed to tensions in Southeast Asia. Relations only began to improve following Gandhi's endorsement of the ZOPFAN declaration and the disintegration of the SEATO alliance in the aftermath of Pakistani and American defeats in the region. Nevertheless, Gandhi's close relations with reunified Vietnam and her decision to recognize the Vietnam installed Government of Cambodia in 1980 meant that India and ASEAN were not able to develop a viable partnership.\n\nAlthough independent India was initially viewed as a champion of anti-colonialism, its cordial relationship with the Commonwealth of Nations and liberal views of British colonial policies in East Africa had harmed its image as a staunch supporter of the anti-colonial movements. Indian condemnation of militant struggles in Kenya and Algeria was in sharp contrast to China, who had supported armed struggle to win African independence. After reaching a high diplomatic point in the aftermath of Nehru's role in the Suez Crisis, India's isolation from Africa was complete when only four nations; Ethiopia, Kenya, Nigeria and Libya supported her during the Sino-Indian War in 1962. After Gandhi became Prime Minister, diplomatic and economic relations with the states which had sided with India during the Sino-Indian War were expanded. Gandhi began negotiations with the Kenyan government to establish the Africa-India Development Cooperation. The Indian government also started considering the possibility of bringing Indians settled in Africa within the framework of its policy goals to help recover its declining geo-strategic influence. Gandhi declared the people of Indian origin settled in Africa as \"Ambassadors of India.\" Efforts to rope in the Asian community to join Indian diplomacy, however, came to naught, partly because of the unwillingness of Indians to remain in politically insecure surroundings and partly due to the exodus of African Indians to Britain with the passing of the Commonwealth Immigrants Act in 1968. In Uganda, the African Indian community even suffered persecution and eventually expulsion under the government of Idi Amin.\n\nForeign and domestic policy successes in the 1970s enabled Gandhi to rebuild India's image in the eyes of African states. Victory over Pakistan and India's possession of nuclear weapons showed the degree of India's progress. Furthermore, the conclusion of the Indo-Soviet treaty in 1971 and threatening gestures by the major western power, the United States, to send its nuclear armed Task Force 74 into the Bay of Bengal at the height of the East Pakistan crisis had enabled India to regain its anti-imperialist image. Gandhi firmly tied Indian anti-imperialist interests in Africa to those of the Soviet Union. Unlike Nehru, she openly and enthusiastically supported liberation struggles in Africa. At the same time, Chinese influence in Africa had declined owing to its incessant quarrels with the Soviet Union. These developments permanently halted India's decline in Africa and helped reestablish its geo-strategic presence.\n\nThe Commonwealth is voluntary association of mainly former British colonies. India maintained cordial relations with most of the members during Indira Gandhi's time in power. In the 1980s, Indira Gandhi along with Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, Zambia's President Kenneth Kaunda, Australian prime minister Malcolm Fraser and Singapore Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew was regarded as one of the pillars of the commonwealth India under Indira also hosted the 1983 Commonwealth heads of Government summit in New Delhi in 1983. Gandhi used to use the Commonwealth meetings as a forum to put pressure on member countries to cut economic, sports, and cultural ties with Apartheid South Africa \n\nIn the early 1980s under Gandhi, India attempted to reassert its prominent role in the Non-Aligned Movement by focusing on the relationship between disarmament and economic development. By appealing to the economic grievances of developing countries, Gandhi and her successors exercised a moderating influence on the Non-aligned movement, diverting it from some of the Cold War issues that marred the controversial 1979 Havana meeting where Cuban leader Fidel Castro attempted to steer the movement towards the Soviet Union. Although hosting the 1983 summit at Delhi boosted Indian prestige within the movement, its close relations with the Soviet Union and its pro-Soviet positions on Afghanistan and Cambodia limited its influence\n\nIndira spent a number of years in Europe during her youth and formed many friendships during her stay there. During her premiership she formed friendship with many socialist leaders such as German chancellor, Willy Brandt and Austrian chancellor Bruno Kreisky. She also enjoyed closed working relationship with many British leaders including conservative premiers, Edward Heath and Margaret Thatcher.\n\nThe relationship between India and the Soviet Union deepened during Gandhi's rule. The main reason was the perceived bias of United States and China, the rivals of USSR, towards Pakistan. The support of USSR with arms supplies and casting of veto at United Nations helped in winning and consolidating the victory over Pakistan in the 1971 Bangladesh liberation war. Prior to the war Indira signed a treaty of friendship with the USSR. The USSR was not happy with the 1974 nuclear test conducted by India but did not support further action because of the ensuing cold war with the United States. Indira was not happy with the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan but once again calculations involving relations with Pakistan and China kept from criticizing the Soviet Union harshly. USSR became the main arms supplier during the Indira years by offering cheap credit and transactions in rupees rather than in dollars. The easy trade deals also applied to non-military goods. Under Indira by the early 1980s the USSR became the largest trading partner of India.\n\nWhen Indira came to power in 1966, Lyndon Johnson was the US President. At that time, India was reliant on USA for food aid. Indira resented the US policy of food aid as a tool in forcing India to adopt policies favored by the US. She also resolutely refused to sign the NPT (Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons). Relations with US strained badly under President Richard Nixon and his favoring of Pakistan during the Bangladesh liberation war. Nixon despised Indira politically and personally. Indira met President Ronald Reagan in 1981 for the first time at the North–South Summit held to discuss global poverty. Indira had been described to him as an 'Ogre' but he found her charming and easy to work with and they formed a close working relationship during her premiership in the 1980s.\n\nGandhi presided over three Five-Year Plans as Prime Minister, two of which succeeded in meeting the targeted growth.\n\nThere is considerable debate regarding whether Gandhi was a socialist on principle or out of political expediency. Sunanda K. Datta-Ray described her as \"a master of rhetoric...often more posture than policy\", while \"The Times\" journalist, Peter Hazelhurst, famously quipped that Gandhi's socialism was \"slightly left of self-interest.\" Critics have focused on the contradictions in the evolution of her stance towards communism; Gandhi being known for her anti-communist stance in the 1950s with Meghnad Desai even describing her as \"the scourge of [India's] Communist Party.\" Yet, she later forged close relations with Indian communists even while using the army to break the Naxalites. In this context, Gandhi was accused of formulating populist policies to suit her political needs; being seemingly against the rich and big business while preserving the status quo in order to manipulate the support of the left at times of political insecurity, such as the late 1960s. Although Gandhi came to be viewed in time as the scourge of the right-wing and reactionary political elements of India, leftist opposition to her policies emerged. As early as 1969, critics had begun accusing her of insincerity and machiavellianism. \"The Indian Libertarian\" wrote that: \"it would be difficult to find a more machiavellian leftist than Mrs Indira Gandhi...for here is Machiavelli at its best in the person of a suave, charming and astute politician.\" Rosser wrote that \"some have even seen the declaration of emergency rule in 1975 as a move to suppress [leftist] dissent against Gandhi's policy shift to the right.\" In the 1980s, Gandhi was accused of \"betraying socialism\" after the beginning of \"Operation Forward\", an attempt at economic reform. Nevertheless, others were more convinced of Gandhi's sincerity and devotion to socialism. Pankaj Vohra noted that \"even the late prime minister's critics would concede that the maximum number of legislations of social significance was brought about during her tenure...[and that] she lives in the hearts of millions of Indians who shared her concern for the poor and weaker sections and who supported her politics.\"\n\nIn summarizing the biographical works on Gandhi, Blema S. Steinberg concluded she was decidedly non-ideological. Only 7.4% (24) of the total 330 biographical extractions posit ideology as a reason for her policy choices. Steinberg noted Gandhi's association with socialism was superficial; only having a general and traditional commitment to the ideology, by way of her political and family ties. Gandhi personally had a fuzzy concept of socialism. In one of the early interviews she had given as Prime Minister, Gandhi had ruminated: \"I suppose you could call me a socialist, but you have understand what we mean by that term...we used the word [socialism] because it came closest to what we wanted to do here – which is to eradicate poverty. You can call it socialism; but if by using that word we arouse controversy, I don't see why we should use it. I don't believe in words at all.\" Regardless of the debate over her ideology or lack of thereof, Gandhi remains a left-wing icon. She has been described by Hindustan Times columnist, Pankaj Vohra as \"arguably the greatest mass leader of the last century.\" Her campaign slogan, Garibi Hatao (Eng: Remove Poverty), has become the iconic motto of the Indian National Congress. To the rural and urban poor, untouchables, minorities and women in India, Gandhi was \"Indira Amma or Mother Indira.\"\n\nGandhi inherited a weak and troubled economy. Fiscal problems associated with the war with Pakistan in 1965, along with a drought-induced food crisis that spawned famines, had plunged India into the sharpest recession since independence. The government responded by taking steps to liberalize the economy, and by agreeing to the devaluation of the currency in return for the restoration of foreign aid. The economy managed to recover in 1966 and ended up growing at 4.1% over 1966–1969. But, much of that growth was offset by the fact that the external aid promised by the United States government and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), meant to ease the short-run costs of adjustment to a liberalized economy, never materialized. American policy makers had complained of continued restrictions imposed on the economy. At the same time, Indo-US relations were straining due to Gandhi's criticism of the American bombing campaign in Vietnam. While it was thought, at the time, and for decades after, that President Johnson's policy of withholding food grain shipments was to coerce Indian support for the war, in fact, it was to offer India rainmaking technology that he wanted to use as a counterweight to China's possession of the atomic bomb. In light of the circumstances, liberalization became politically suspect and was soon abandoned. Grain diplomacy and currency devaluation became matters of intense national pride in India. After the bitter experience with Johnson, Gandhi decided not to request food aid in the future. Moreover, Gandhi's government resolved never again to become \"so vulnerably dependent\" on aid, and painstakingly began building up substantial foreign exchange reserves. When food stocks slumped after poor harvests in 1972, the government made it a point to use foreign exchange to buy US wheat commercially rather than seek resumption of food aid.\n\nThe period of 1967–75 was characterized by socialist ascendency in India which culminated in 1976 with the official declaration of state socialism. Gandhi not only abandoned the short lived liberalization programme but also aggressively expanded the public sector with new licensing requirements and other restrictions for industry. She began a new course by launching the Fourth Five-Year Plan in 1969. The government targeted growth at 5.7% while stating as its goals, \"growth with stability and progressive achievement of self-reliance.\" The rationale behind the overall plan was Gandhi's \"Ten Point Programme\" of 1967. This had been her first economic policy formulation, six months after coming to office. The programme emphasized greater state control of the economy with the understanding that government control assured greater welfare than private control. Related to this point were a set of policies which were meant to regulate the private sector. By the end of the 1960s, the reversal of the liberalization process was complete, and India's policies were characterised as \"protectionist as ever.\"\n\nTo deal with India's food problems, Gandhi expanded the emphasis on production of inputs to agriculture that had already been initiated by her father, Jawaharlal Nehru. The Green Revolution in India subsequently culminated under her government in the 1970s and transformed the country from a nation heavily reliant on imported grains and prone to famine to being largely able to feed itself, and become successful in achieving its goal of food security. Gandhi had a personal motive in pursuing agricultural self-sufficiency, having found India's dependency on the U.S. for shipments of grains humiliating.\n\nThe economic period of 1967–75 became significant for its major wave of nationalisations amidst the increased regulation of the private sector.\n\nSome of the other objectives of the economic plan for the period was to provide for the minimum needs of the community through a rural works program and the removal of the privy purses of the nobility. Both these, and many other goals of the 1967 program were accomplished by 1974–75. Nevertheless, the success of the overall economic plan was tempered by the fact that annual growth at 3.3–3.4% over 1969–74 fell short of the targeted figure.\n\nThe Fifth Five-Year Plan (1974–79) was enacted in the backdrop of the state of emergency and the \"Twenty Point Program\" of 1975. The latter was the economic rationale of the emergency, a political act which has often been justified on economic grounds. In contrast to the reception of Gandhi's earlier economic plan, this one was criticized for being a \"hastily thrown together wish list.\" Gandhi promised to reduce poverty by targeting the consumption levels of the poor and enact wide-ranging social and economic reforms. The government additionally targeted an annual growth of 4.4% over the period of the plan.\n\nThe measures of the emergency regime was able to halt the economic trouble of the early to mid-1970s, which had been marred by harvest failures, fiscal contraction, and the breakdown of the Bretton Woods system of fixed exchanged rate; the resulting turbulence in the foreign exchange markets being further accentuated by the oil shock of 1973. The government was even able to exceed the targeted growth figure with an annual growth rate of 5.0–5.2% over the five-year period of the plan (1974–79). The economy grew at the rate of 9% in 1975–76 alone, and the Fifth Plan, became the first plan during which the per capita income of the economy grew by over 5%.\n\nGandhi inherited a weak economy when she again became Prime Minister in 1980. The preceding year in 1979–80 under the Janata Party government had led to the strongest recession (−5.2%) in the history of modern India with inflation rampant at 18.2%. Gandhi proceeded to abrogate the Janata Party government's Five-Year Plan in 1980 and launched the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980–85). The government targeted an average growth of 5.2% over the period of the plan. Measures to check the inflation were also taken; by the early 1980s inflation was under control at an annual rate of about 5%.\n\nAlthough Gandhi continued professing socialist beliefs, the Sixth Five-Year Plan was markedly different from the years of Garibi Hatao. Populist programs and policies were replaced by pragmatism. There was an emphasis on tightening public expenditures, greater efficiency of the state-owned enterprises (SOE), which Gandhi qualified as a \"sad thing\", and in stimulating the private sector through deregulation and liberation of the capital market. The government subsequently launched \"Operation Forward\" in 1982, the first cautious attempt at reform. The Sixth Plan went on to become the most successful of the Five-Year Plans yet; showing an average growth of 5.7% over 1980–85.\n\nDuring Lal Bahadur Shastri's last full year in office (1965), inflation averaged 7.7%, compared to 5.2% at the end of Gandhi's first stint in office (1977). On average, inflation in India had remained below 7% through the 1950s and 1960s. But, it then accelerated sharply in the 1970s, from 5.5% in 1970–71 to over 20% by 1973–74, due to the international oil crisis. Gandhi declared inflation the gravest of problems in 1974 (at 25.2%) and devised a severe anti-inflation program. The government was successful in bringing down inflation during the emergency; achieving negative figures of −1.1% by the end of 1975–76.\n\nGandhi inherited a tattered economy in her second term; harvest failures and a second oil shock in the late 1970s had again caused inflation to rise. During Charan Singh's short reign in office in the second half of 1979, inflation averaged 18.2%, compared to 6.5% during Gandhi's last year in office (1984). General economic recovery under Gandhi led to an average inflation at 6.5% from 1981–82 to 1985–86; the lowest since the beginning of India's inflation problems in the 1960s.\n\nUnemployment stayed constant at 9% over a nine-year period (1971–80) before declining to 8.3% in 1983.\n\nDespite the provisions, control and regulations of Reserve Bank of India, most banks in India had continued to be owned and operated by private persons. Businessmen who owned the banks were often accused of channeling the deposits into their own companies, and ignoring the priority sector. Furthermore, there was a great resentment against \"class\" banking in India, which had left the poor (the majority population) unbanked. After becoming Prime Minister, Gandhi expressed the intention of nationalising the banks in a paper titled, \"Stray thoughts on Bank Nationalisation\" in order to alleviate poverty. The paper received the overwhelming support of the public. In 1969, Gandhi moved to nationalise fourteen major commercial banks. After the nationalisation of banks, the branches of the public sector banks in India rose to approximate 800 percent in deposits, and advances took a huge jump by 11,000 percent. Nationalisation also resulted in a significant growth in the geographical coverage of banks; the number of bank branches rose from 8,200 to over 62,000, most of which were opened in the unbanked, rural areas. The nationalization drive not only helped to increase household savings, but it also provided considerable investments in the informal sector, in small and medium-sized enterprises, and in agriculture, and contributed significantly to regional development and to the expansion of India's industrial and agricultural base. Jayaprakash Narayan, who became famous for leading the opposition to Gandhi in the 1970s, was solid in his praise for her bank nationalisations.\n\nHaving been re-elected in 1971 on a nationalisation platform, Gandhi proceeded to nationalise the coal, steel, copper, refining, cotton textiles, and insurance industries. Most of these nationalisations were made to protect employment and the interest of the organised labour. The remaining private sector industries were placed under strict regulatory control.\n\nDuring the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971, foreign-owned private oil companies had refused to supply fuel to the Indian Navy and Indian Air Force. In response, Gandhi nationalised oil companies in 1973. After nationalisation the oil majors such as the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation (HPCL) and the Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) had to keep a minimum stock level of oil, to be supplied to the military when needed.\n\nIn 1966, Gandhi accepted the demands of the Akalis to reorganize Punjab on linguistic lines. The Hindi-speaking southern half of Punjab became a separate state, Haryana, while the Pahari speaking hilly areas in the north east were joined to Himachal Pradesh. In doing so, she had hoped to ward off the growing political conflict between Hindu and Sikh groups in the region. However, a contentious issue that was considered unresolved by the Akalis was the status of Chandigarh, a prosperous city on the Punjab-Haryana border, which Gandhi declared a union territory to be shared as a capital by both the states.\n\nVictory over Pakistan in 1971 consolidated Indian power in Kashmir. Gandhi indicated that she would make no major concessions on Kashmir. The most prominent of the Kashmiri separatists, Sheikh Abdullah, had to recognize India's control over Kashmir in light of the new order in South Asia. The situation was normalized in the years following the war after Abdullah agreed to an accord with Gandhi, by giving up the demand for a plebiscite in return for a special autonomous status for Kashmir. In 1975, Gandhi declared the state of Jammu and Kashmir as a constituent unit of India. The Kashmir conflict remained largely peaceful if frozen under Gandhi's premiership.\n\nIn 1972, Gandhi granted statehood to Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura, while the North-East Frontier Agency was declared a union territory and renamed Arunachal Pradesh. The transition to statehood for these territories was successfully overseen by her administration. This was followed by the annexation of Sikkim in 1975.\n\nThe principle of equal pay for equal work for both men and women was enshrined in the Indian Constitution under the Gandhi administration.\n\nGandhi questioned the continued existence of a privy purse for former rulers of princely states. She argued the case for abolition based on equal rights for all citizens and the need to reduce the government's revenue deficit. The nobility responded by rallying around the Jana Sangh and other right-wing parties that stood in opposition to Gandhi's attempts to abolish royal privileges. The motion to abolish privy purses, and the official recognition of the titles, was originally brought before the Parliament in 1970. It was passed in the Lok Sabha but felt short of the two-thirds majority in the Rajya Sabha by a single vote. Gandhi responded by having a Presidential proclamation issued; de-recognizing the princes; with this withdrawal of recognition, their claims to privy purses were also legally lost. However, the proclamation was struck down by the Supreme Court of India. In 1971, Gandhi again motioned to abolish the privy purse. This time, it was successfully passed as the 26th Amendment to the Constitution of India. Many royals tried to protest the abolition of the privy purse, primarily through campaigns to contest seats in elections. They, however, received a final setback when many of them were defeated by huge margins.\n\nGandhi claimed that only \"clear vision, iron will and the strictest discipline\" can remove poverty. She justified the imposition of the state of emergency in 1975 in the name of the socialist mission of the Congress. Armed with the power to rule by decree and without constitutional constraints, Gandhi embarked on a massive redistribution program. The provisions included rapid enforcement of land ceilings, housing for landless labourers, the abolition of bonded labour and a moratorium on the debts of the poor. North India was at the centre of the reforms; millions of acres of land were acquired and redistributed. The government was also successful in procuring houses for landless labourers; according to Frankel, three-fourths of the targeted four million houses was achieved in 1975 alone. Nevertheless, others have disputed the success of the program and criticized Gandhi for not doing enough to reform land ownership. The political economist, Jyotindra Das Gupta, cryptically questioned \"...whether or not the real supporters of land-holders were in jail or in power?\" Critics also accused Gandhi of choosing to \"talk left and act right\", referring to her concurrent pro-business decisions and endeavours. Rosser wrote that \"some have even seen the declaration of emergency rule in 1975 as a move to suppress dissent against Gandhi's policy shift to the right.\" Regardless of the controversy over the nature of the reforms, the long-term effects of the social changes gave rise to prominence of middle-ranking farmers from intermediate and lower castes in North India. The rise of these newly empowered social classes challenged the political establishment of the Hindi Belt in the years to come.\n\nUnder the Constitution of India of 1950, Hindi was to have become the official national language by 1965. This was not acceptable to many non-Hindi speaking states, who wanted the continued use of English in government. In 1967, Gandhi made a constitutional amendment that guaranteed the de facto use of both Hindi and English as official languages. This established the official government policy of bilingualism in India and satisfied the non-Hindi speaking Indian states. Gandhi thus put herself forward as a leader with a pan-Indian vision. Nevertheless, critics alleged that her stance was actually meant to weaken the position of rival Congress leaders from the northern states such as Uttar Pradesh, where there had been strong, sometimes violent, pro-Hindi agitations. Gandhi came out of the language conflicts with the strong support of the south Indian populace.\n\nIn the late 1960s and 1970s, Gandhi had the Indian army crush militant Communist uprisings in the Indian state of West Bengal. The communist insurgency in India was completely suppressed during the state of emergency.\n\nGandhi considered the north-eastern regions important, because of its strategic situation. In 1966, the Mizo uprising took place against the government of India and overran almost the whole of the Mizoram region. Gandhi ordered the Indian Army to launch massive retaliatory strikes in response. The rebellion was suppressed with the Indian Air Force even carrying out airstrikes in Aizawl; this remains the only instance of India carrying out an airstrike in its own civilian territory. The defeat of Pakistan in 1971 and the secession of East Pakistan as pro-India Bangladesh led to the collapse of the Mizo separatist movement. In 1972, after the less extremist Mizo leaders came to the negotiating table, Gandhi upgraded Mizoram to the status of a union territory. A small-scale insurgency by some militants continued into the late 1970s but was successfully dealt with by the government. The Mizo conflict was definitively resolved during the administration of Gandhi's son Rajiv. Today, Mizoram is considered as one of the most peaceful states in the north-east.\n\nResponding to the insurgency in Nagaland, Gandhi \"unleashed a powerful military offensive\" in the 1970s. Finally, a massive crackdown on the insurgents took place during the state of emergency ordered by Gandhi. The insurgents soon agreed to surrender and signed the Shillong Accord in 1975. While the agreement was considered a victory for the Indian government and ended large-scale conflicts, there has since been spurts of violence by rebel holdouts and ethnic conflict amongst the tribes.\n\nGandhi contributed and further carried out the vision of Jawaharlal Nehru, former Premier of India to develop the program. Gandhi authorised the development of nuclear weapons in 1967, in response to the \"Test No. 6\" by People's Republic of China. Gandhi saw this test as Chinese nuclear intimidation, therefore, Gandhi promoted the views of Nehru to establish India's stability and security interests as independent from those of the nuclear superpowers.\n\nThe program became fully mature in 1974, when Dr. Raja Ramanna reported to Gandhi that India had the ability to test its first nuclear weapon. Gandhi gave verbal authorisation of this test, and preparations were made in a long-constructed army base, the Indian Army Pokhran Test Range. In 1974, India successfully conducted an underground nuclear test, unofficially code named as \"\"Smiling Buddha\", near the desert village of Pokhran in Rajasthan. As the world was quiet by this test, a vehement protest came forward from Pakistan. Great ire was raised in Pakistan and its Prime Minister, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, described this test as \"Indian hegemony\"\" to intimidate Pakistan. In response to this Bhutto launched a massive campaign all over the Pakistan to make Pakistan a nuclear power. In these campaigns Bhutto asked the nation to get united and great slogans were raised such as \"hum ghaas aur pattay kha lay gay magar nuclear power ban k rhe gay (We will eat grass or leaves even go hungry but will get nuclear power)\". Gandhi directed a letter to Bhutto and, later to the world, describing the test for peaceful purposes and India's commitment to develop its programme for industrial and scientific use.\n\nShe married Feroze Gandhi at the age of 25, in 1942. Their marriage lasted 18 years, until Feroze died of a heart attack in 1960. They had two sons – Rajiv (b. 1944) and Sanjay (b. 1946). Her younger son Sanjay had initially been her chosen heir; but after his death in a flying accident in June 1980, Gandhi persuaded her reluctant elder son Rajiv to quit his job as a pilot and enter politics in February 1981. Rajiv took office as prime minister following his mother's assassination in 1984; he served until December 1989. Rajiv Gandhi himself was assassinated by a suicide bomber working on behalf of LTTE on 21 May 1991.\n\nGandhi's yoga guru, Dhirendra Brahmachari, helped her in making certain decisions and also executed certain top level political tasks on her behalf, especially from 1975 to 1977 when Gandhi \"declared a state of emergency and suspended civil liberties.\"\n\nIn January 2017, a woman called Priya Singh Paul claimed to be Indira's granddaughter as Sanjay Gandhi's biological daughter. She claims that she was given away for adoption because Indira Gandhi hid her as a child and her mother as a wife of Sanjay Gandhi for political reasons.\n\nIn 1952 in a letter to her American friend Dorothy Norman, Gandhi wrote: \"I am in no sense a feminist, but I believe in women being able to do everything...Given the opportunity to develop, capable Indian women have come to the top at once.\" While this statement appears paradoxical, it reflects Gandhi's complex feelings toward her gender and feminism. Her egalitarian upbringing with her cousins helped contribute to her sense of natural equality. \"Flying kites, climbing trees, playing marbles with her boy cousins, Indira said she hardly knew the difference between a boy and a girl until the age of twelve.\"\n\nIndira Gandhi did not often discuss her gender, but she did involve herself in women's issues before becoming the prime minister. Before her election as the Prime Minister, she became active in the organizational wing of the Congress party, working in part in the Women's Department. In 1956, Gandhi had an active role in setting up the Congress Party's Women's Section. Unsurprisingly, a lot of her involvement stemmed from her father. As an only child, Gandhi naturally stepped into the political light. And, as a woman, Gandhi naturally helped head the Women's section of the Congress Party. She often tried to organize women to involve themselves in politics. Although rhetorically Gandhi may have attempted to separate her political success from her gender, Gandhi did involve herself in women's organizations. The political parties in India paid substantial attention to Gandhi's gender before she became prime minister, hoping to use her for political gain. \nEven though men surrounded Gandhi during her upbringing, she still had a female role model as a child. Several books on Gandhi mention her interest in Joan of Arc. In her own accounts through her letters she wrote to her friend Dorothy Norman, in 1952 she wrote: \"At about eight or nine I was taken to France; Jeanne d'Arc became a great heroine of mine. She was one of the first people I read about with enthusiasm.\" Another historian recounts Indira's comparison of herself to Joan of Arc: \"Indira developed a fascination for Joan of Arc, telling her aunt, 'Someday I am going to lead my people to freedom just as Joan of Arc did! Gandhi's linking of herself to Joan of Arc presents a nice model for historians to assess Gandhi. As one writer said: \"The Indian people were her children; members of her family were the only people capable of leading them.\"\n\nGandhi had been swept up in the call for Indian independence since she was born in 1917. Thus by 1947 she was already well immersed in politics, and by 1966, when she first assumed the position of prime minister, she had held several cabinet positions in her father's office.\n\nGandhi's advocacy for women's rights began with her help in establishing the Congress Party's Women's Section. In 1956, she wrote in a letter: \"It is because of this that I am taking a much more active part in politics. I have to do a great deal of touring in order to set up the Congress Party Women's Section, and am on numerous important committees.\" Gandhi spent a great deal of time throughout the 1950s helping organize women. She wrote to Norman in 1959, irritable that women had organized around the communist cause but had not mobilized for the Indian cause: \"The women, whom I have been trying to organize for years, had always refused to come into politics. Now they are out in the field.\" Once appointed president in 1959, she \"travelled relentlessly, visiting remote parts of the country that had never before received a VIP...she talked to women, asked about child health and welfare, inquired after the crafts of the region\" Gandhi's actions throughout her ascent to power clearly reflect a desire to mobilize women. Gandhi did not see the purpose of feminism. Gandhi saw her own success as a woman, and also noted that \"Given the opportunity to develop, capable Indian women have come to the top at once.\"\n\nGandhi felt guilty about her inability to fully devote her time to her children. She noted that her main problem in office was how to balance her political duties with tending to her children, and \"stressed that motherhood was the most important part of her life.\" At another point, she went into more detail: \"To a woman, motherhood is the highest fulfilment...To bring a new being into this world, to see its perfection and to dream of its future greatness is the most moving of all experiences and fills one with wonder and exaltation.\"\n\nHer domestic initiatives did not necessarily reflect favourably on Indian women. Gandhi did not make a special effort to appoint women to cabinet positions. She did not appoint any women to full cabinet rank during her terms in office. Yet despite this, many women saw Gandhi as a symbol for feminism and an image of women's power.\n\nAfter leading India to victory against Pakistan in the Bangladesh liberation war in 1971, Prime Minister (Mrs. Indira Gandhi) recommended & President V. V. Giri awarded Mrs. Gandhi India's highest civilian honour, the Bharat Ratna. In 2011, the Bangladesh Freedom Honour (Bangladesh Swadhinata Sammanona), Bangladesh's highest civilian award, was posthumously conferred on Indira Gandhi for her \"outstanding contributions\" to Bangladesh's Liberation War.\n\nIndira Gandhi's main legacy was standing firm in face of American pressure to defeat Pakistan and turn East Pakistan into independent Bangladesh. She was also responsible for India joining the club of countries with nuclear weapons. Despite India being officially part of the Non-Aligned Movement, she gave Indian foreign policy a tilt towards the Soviet bloc.\n\nBeing at the forefront of Indian politics for decades, Gandhi left a powerful but controversial legacy on Indian politics. The main legacy of her rule was destroying internal party democracy in the Congress party. Her detractors accuse her of weakening State chief ministers and thereby weakening the federal structure, weakening independence of judiciary, and weakening her cabinet by vesting power in her secretariat and her sons. Gandhi is also associated with fostering a culture of nepotism in Indian politics and in India's institutions. She is also almost singularly associated with the period of Emergency rule and the dark period in Indian Democracy that it entailed.\nThe Congress party was a \"broad church\" during the independence movement; however, it started turning into a family firm controlled by Indira Gandhi's family during the emergency.This was characterized by servility and sycophancy towards the family which later turned into hereditary succession of Gandhi family members to power.\nHer actions in storming the Golden Temple alienated Sikhs for a very long time. One of her legacies is supposed to be the systematic corruption of all parts of India's government from the executive to the judiciary due to her sense of insecurity.\nAlthough the Maruti Udyog company was first established by Gandhi's son, Sanjay, it was under Indira that the then nationalized company came to prominence.\nShe remains the only woman ever to occupy the office of the Prime Minister of India.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3238121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3238121", "title": "Industrial warfare", "text": "Industrial warfare\n\nIndustrial warfare is a period in the history of warfare ranging roughly from the early 19th century and the start of the Industrial Revolution to the beginning of the Atomic Age, which saw the rise of nation-states, capable of creating and equipping large armies, navies, and air forces, through the process of industrialization.\n\nThe era featured mass-conscripted armies, rapid transportation (first on railroads, then by sea and air), telegraph and wireless communications, and the concept of total war. In terms of technology, this era saw the rise of rifled breech-loading infantry weapons capable of high rates of fire, high-velocity breech-loading artillery, chemical weapons, armoured warfare, metal warships, submarines, and aircraft.\n\nOne of the main features of industrial warfare is the concept of \"total war\". The term was coined during World War I by Erich Ludendorff (and again in his 1935 book \"Total War\"), which called for the complete mobilization and subordination of all resources, including policy and social systems, to the German war effort. It has also come to mean waging warfare with absolute ruthlessness, and its most identifiable legacy today has been the reintroduction of civilians and civilian infrastructure as targets in destroying the enemy's ability to engage in war.\n\nThere are several reasons for the rise of total warfare in the 19th century. The main one is industrialization. As countries' capital and natural resources grew, it became clear that some forms of warfare demanded more resources than others. Consequently, the greater cost of warfare became evident. An industrialized nation could distinguish and then choose the intensity of warfare that it wished to engage in.\n\nAdditionally, warfare was becoming more mechanized and required greater infrastructure. Combatants could no longer live off the land, but required an extensive support network of people behind the lines to keep them fed and armed. This required the mobilization of the home front. Modern concepts like propaganda were first used to boost production and maintain morale, while rationing took place to provide more war materiel.\n\nThe earliest modern example of total war was the American Civil War. Union generals Ulysses S. Grant and William Tecumseh Sherman were convinced that, if the North was to be victorious, the Confederacy's strategic, economic, and psychological ability to wage war had to be definitively crushed. They believed that to break the backbone of the South, the North had to employ scorched earth tactics, or as Sherman called it, \"Hard War\". Sherman's advance through Georgia and the Carolinas was characterized by widespread destruction of civilian supplies and infrastructure. In contrast to later conflicts, the damage done by Sherman was almost entirely limited to property destruction. In Georgia alone, Sherman claimed he and his men had caused $100,000,000 in damages.\n\nConscription is the compulsory enrollment of civilians into military service. Conscription allowed the French Republic to form \"La Grande Armée\", what Napoleon Bonaparte called \"the nation in arms\", which successfully battled European professional armies.\n\nConscription, particularly when the conscripts are being sent to foreign wars that do not directly affect the security of the nation, has historically been highly politically contentious in democracies. For instance, during World War I, bitter political disputes broke out in Canada (see Conscription Crisis of 1917), Newfoundland, Australia and New Zealand (See Compulsory Military Training) over conscription. Canada also had a political dispute over conscription during World War II (see Conscription Crisis of 1944). Both South Africa and Australia put limits on where conscripts could fight in WWII. Similarly, mass protests against conscription to fight the Vietnam War occurred in several countries in the late 1960s.\n\nIn developed nations, the increasing emphasis on technological firepower and better-trained fighting forces, the sheer unlikelihood of a conventional military assault on most developed nations, as well as memories of the contentiousness of the Vietnam War experience, make mass conscription unlikely in the foreseeable future.\n\nRussia, as well as many smaller nations such as Switzerland, retain mainly conscript armies.\n\nPrior to the invention of the motorized transport, combatants were transported from by wagons, horses and by marching. With the advent of locomotives, large groups of combatants, supplies, and equipment were able to be transported faster and in larger numbers. To counter this, an opposing force would destroy rail lines to hinder their enemies' movements. General Sherman's men during the American Civil War, would destroy tracks, heat the rails, and wrap them around trees.\n\nThe mass transportation of combatants was further revolutionized with the advent of the internal combustion engine and the automobile. Combined with the widespread use of the machine gun, the horse, after millennia of use, was finally supplanted in its war time role. During both WWI and WWII, trucks were used to carry combatants and materiel, while cars and jeeps were used to scout enemy positions.\nThe mechanization of infantry occurred during WWII. The tank, a product of World War I invented by the British to break through trenches while withstanding machine gun fire, while discounted by many, came into its own. Tanks evolved from thin-skinned, lumbering vehicles into fast, powerful war machines of various types that dominated the battlefield and allowed the Germans to conquer most of Europe. As a result of the tank's evolution, a number of armored transport vehicles appeared, such as armoured personnel carriers and amphibious vehicles.\n\nAfter the war ended, armored transports continued to evolve. The armored car and train declined in use, largely becoming relegated to military and civilian use as transportation for VIPs. Infantry fighting vehicles rose to prominence with the creation of the Soviet BMP-1. IFVs are a more combat capable version of the APC, with heavier armaments (such as autocannons), while still retaining the ability to transport combatants into and out of battles.\n\nSealift is a military logistics term referring to the use of cargo ships for the deployment of military assets, such as weaponry, military personnel, and materiel supplies. It complements other means of transport, such as strategic airlifters, in order to enhance a state's ability to project power. A state's sealift capabilities may include civilian-operated ships that normally operate by contract, but which can be chartered or commandeered during times of military necessity to supplement government-owned naval fleets.\n\nDuring WWI, the United States bought, borrowed or commandeered vessels of various types, ranging from pleasure craft to ocean liners to transport the American Expeditionary Force to Europe. Many of these ships were scrapped, sold or returned to their owners after the war.\n\nThere are two different kinds of airlifts in warfare, a strategic airlift and a tactical airlift. A strategic airlift is the use transporting of weapons, supplies and personnel over long distances (from a base in one country to a base in another country for example) using large cargo aircraft. This contrasts with tactical airlifts, which involves transporting the same above items within a theater of operations. This usually involves cargo planes with shorter ranges and slower speeds, but higher maneuverability.\n\n\n\nLand warfare, as the name implies, takes place on land. The most common type of warfare, it can encompass several modes and locales, including urban, arctic and mountain warfare.\n\nThe early part of the 19th century from 1815 to 1848 saw a long period of peace in Europe, accompanied by extraordinary industrial expansion. The industrial age brought about various technological advancements, each with their own implication. Land warfare moved from visual-range and semi person-to-person combat of the previous era, to indiscriminate and impersonal, \"beyond visual range\" warfare. The Crimean War (1853–1856) saw the introduction of trench warfare, long-range artillery, railroads, the telegraph and the rifle. The mechanized mass-destruction of enemy combatants grew ever more deadly. In WWI (1914–1918) machine-guns, barbed wire, chemical weapons and land-mines entered the battlefield. The deadly stalemated trench-warfare stage was finally passed with the advent of the modern armored tank late in WWI.\n\nOne major trend involved the transition away massed infantry fire and human waves to more refined tactics. This became possible with the superseding of earlier weapons like the highly inaccurate musket.\n\n\"Rifling\" refers to the act of adding spiral grooves to the inside the barrel of a firearm. The grooves would cause a projectile to spin as it traveled down the barrel, improving range and accuracy. Once rifling became easier and practical, a new type of firearm was introduced, the rifle. It gave combatants the ability to specifically target an enemy combatant, rather than have large numbers of combatants fire in a general direction. It effectively broke up groups of combatants into smaller more maneuverable units.\n\n\"Artillery\" are large guns designed to fire large projectiles a great distance. Early artillery pieces were large and cumbersome with slow rates of fire. This reduced their use to sieges, by both defenders and attackers. With the advent of the industrial age and various technological advancements, lighter, yet powerful and accurate artillery pieces were produced. This gave rise to field artillery which were used on a tactical level to support troops.\n\n\"Machine guns\" are fully automatic guns. In this era of warfare they only existed as mounted support weapons, as automatic firearms were not yet developed. Early machine guns as invented by Gatling, were hand cranked but evolved into truly automatic machine guns by Maxim at the end of the era. Machine guns were valued for their ability to smash infantry formations, especially attacking enemy formations when they were dense. This, along with effective field artillery, changed tactics drastically.\n\nStatic defenses evolved from the use of permanent fortifications that were direct descendants of medieval castles. As artillery improved in destructive power and penetrative ability, more modern fortifications were developed, using first thicker layers of stone, then concrete and steel. After naval artillery developed the turret – a moving cannon platform – land fortifications started to use this method as well. Between the World Wars, France built an \"impregnable\" underground steel and concrete fortification that ran the length of the German-French border. This Maginot Line failed to stop German tanks in 1940: they bypassed the fortifications by invading through neighboring Belgium.\n\nTemporary fortifications. As artillery and rifles allowed the killing of enemy personnel at a longer effective range, soldiers started to dig into temporary fortifications. These included massive trenches as used in WWI, and individual soldier-sized \"fox holes\" which became more common in WWII.\n\nManeuver had existed throughout military history – from soldiers marching on the field to using horses in cavalry formations. It was not until the advent of mechanized transport over unprepared terrain, such as fields and deserts, using tanks and armored vehicles, that \"maneuver warfare\" became feasible. First used by the German army in Poland and France in WWII, Blitzkrieg or \"lightning war\" saw whole armies moved rapidly on tracked and armored fighting vehicles. During the war airborne movement was used, with soldiers dropped to the battlefield by parachute by both the Germans and the Allies. After WWII, developments in helicopters brought a more practical way to transport troops by air.\n\n\nThe period after the Napoleonic Wars was one of intensive experimentation with new technology; steam power for ships appeared in the 1810s, improved metallurgy and machining technique produced larger and deadlier guns, and the development of explosive shells, capable of demolishing a wooden ship at a single blow, in turn required the addition of iron armor, which led to ironclads.\n\nThe famous battle of the \"CSS Virginia\" and \"USS Monitor\" in the American Civil War was the duel of ironclads that symbolized the changing times. Although the battle was inconclusive, nations around the world subsequently raced to convert their fleets to iron, as ironclads had shown themselves to be clearly superior to wooden ships in their ability to withstand enemy fire.\n\nIn the late 19th century, naval warfare was revolutionized by Alfred Thayer Mahan's book \"The Influence of Sea Power upon History\". Mahan argued that in the Anglo-French wars of the 18th and 19th centuries, domination of the sea was the deciding factor in the outcome, and therefore control of seaborne commerce was critical to military victory. Mahan argued that the best way to achieve naval domination was through large fleets of concentrated capital ships, as opposed to commerce raiders. His books were closely studied in all the Great Powers, influencing their naval arms race in the years prior to WWI.\n\nAs the century came to a close, the familiar modern battleship began to emerge; a steel-armored ship, entirely dependent on steam, and sporting a number of large shell guns mounted in turrets arranged along the centerline of the main deck. The ultimate design was reached in 1906 with \"HMS Dreadnought\" which entirely dispensed with smaller guns, her main guns being sufficient to sink any existing ship of the time.\n\nThe Russo-Japanese War and particularly the Battle of Tsushima in 1905 was the first test of the new concepts, resulting in a stunning Japanese victory and the destruction of dozens of Russian ships. World War I pitted the old Royal Navy against the new navy of Imperial Germany, culminating in the 1916 Battle of Jutland. Following the war, many nations agreed to limit the size of their fleets in the Washington Naval Treaty and scrapped many of their battleships and cruisers.\n\nGrowing tensions of the 1930s restarted the building programs, with even larger ships than before: the Japanese battleship \"Yamato\", launched in 1941, displaced 72,000 tons and mounted guns. This marked the climax of \"big gun\" warfare, as aircraft would gradually play a larger role in warfare. By the 1960s, battleships had all-but vanished from the fleets of the world.\n\nBetween the world wars, the first aircraft carriers appeared, initially as a way to circumvent the tonnage limits of the Washington Naval Treaty (many of the first carriers were converted battlecruisers). Though several ships had previously been designed to launch and in some cases, the first true \"flat-top\" carrier was \"HMS Argus\", launched in December 1917.\n\nBy the start of WWII, aircraft carriers typically carried three types of aircraft: torpedo bombers, which could also be used for conventional horizontal bombing and reconnaissance; dive bombers, also used for reconnaissance; and fighters for fleet defence and bomber escort duties. Because of the restricted space on aircraft carriers, these aircraft were almost always small, single-engined warplanes. The first true demonstration of naval air power was the victory of the Royal Navy at the Battle of Taranto in 1940, which set the stage for Japan's much larger and more famous attack on Pearl Harbor the following year.\n\nTwo days after Pearl Harbor, the sinking of \"HMS Prince of Wales\" and \"HMS Repulse\", marked the beginning of the end for the battleship era. Following WWII, aircraft carriers continued to remain key to navies throughout the latter 20th century, moving in the 1950s to jets launched from Supercarriers, behemoths which could displace as much as 100,000 tons.\n\nJust as important was the development of submarines to travel underneath the sea, at first for short dives, then later to be able to spend weeks or months underwater powered by a nuclear reactor. The first successful submarine attack in wartime was in 1864 by the Confederate submarine \"H.L. Hunley\" which sank the frigate \"USS Housatonic\".\n\nIn both World Wars, submarines primarily exerted their power by sinking merchant ships using torpedoes, in addition to attacks on warships. All nations practiced unrestricted submarine warfare in which submarines sank merchant ships without warning, but the only successful campaign during this period was America's submarine war against Japan during the Pacific War. In the 1950s the Cold War inspired the development of ballistic missile submarines, each one loaded with dozens of nuclear-armed missiles and with orders to launch them from sea should the other nation attack.\n\nThe first use of airplanes in war was the Italo-Turkish War of 1911, when the Italians carried out several reconnaissance and bombing missions. During WWI both sides made use of balloons and airplanes for reconnaissance and directing artillery fire. To prevent enemy reconnaissance, some airplane pilots began attacking other airplanes and balloons, first with small arms carried in the cockpit, and later with machine guns mounted on the aircraft. Both sides also made use of aircraft for bombing, strafing and dropping of propaganda leaflets.\n\nThe German air force carried out the first terror bombing raids, using Zeppelins to drop bombs on Britain. By the end of the war airplanes had become specialised into bombers, fighters, and surveillance aircraft. Most of these airplanes were biplanes with wooden frames, canvas skins, wire rigging and air-cooled engines.\n\nBetween 1918 and 1939, aircraft technology developed very rapidly. By 1939 military biplanes were in the process of being replaced with metal framed monoplanes, often with stressed skins and liquid cooled engines. Top speeds had tripled; altitudes doubled (and oxygen masks become commonplace); ranges and payloads of bombers increased enormously.\n\nSome theorists, most famously Hugh Trenchard and Giulio Douhet, believed that aircraft would become the dominant military arm in the future, and argued that future wars would be won entirely by the destruction of the enemy's military and industrial capability from the air. This concept was called strategic bombing. Douhet also argued in \"The Command of the Air\" (1921) that future military leaders could avoid falling into bloody World War I-style trench stalemates by using aviation to strike past the enemy's forces directly at their vulnerable civilian population, which Douhet believed would cause these populations to rise up in revolt to stop the bombing.\n\nOthers, such as Billy Mitchell, saw the potential of air power to neutralize the striking power of naval surface fleets. Mitchell himself proved the vulnerability of capital ships to aircraft was finally in 1921 when he commanded a squadron of bombers that sank the ex-German battleship SMS \"Ostfriesland\" with aerial bombs. (See Industrial warfare#Naval warfare)\n\nDuring WWII, there was a debate between strategic bombing and tactical bombing. Strategic bombing focused on targets such as factories, railroads, oil refineries, and heavily populated areas such as cities and towns, and required heavy four-engine bombers carrying large payloads of ordnance (or a single heavy four-engine bomber carrying a nuclear weapon) flying deep into enemy territory. Tactical bombing focused on concentration of combatants, command and control centers, airfields, and ammunition dumps, and required attack aircraft, dive bombers, and fighter bombers that could fly low over the battlefield.\n\nIn the early years of WWII, the German \"Luftwaffe\" focused on tactical bombing, using large numbers of Ju 87 Stukas as \"flying artillery\" for land offensives. Artillery was slow and required time to set up a firing position, whereas aircraft were better able keep up with the fast advances of the German panzer columns. Close air support greatly assisted in the successes of the German Army in the Battle of France. It was also important in amphibious warfare, where aircraft carriers could provide support for soldiers landing on the beaches.\nStrategic bombing, by contrast, was unlike anything the world has seen before or since. In 1940, the Germans attempted to force Britain to surrender through attacks on its airfields and factories, and then on its cities in The Blitz in what became the Battle of Britain, the first major battle whose outcome was determined primarily in the air. The campaigns conducted in Europe and Asia could involve thousands of aircraft dropping tens of thousands of tons of munitions over a single city.\n\nMilitary aviation in the post-war years was dominated by the needs of the Cold War. The postwar years saw a rapid conversion to jet power, which resulted in enormous increases in speeds and altitudes of aircraft. Until the advent of the intercontinental ballistic missile, major powers relied on high-altitude bombers to deliver their newly developed nuclear deterrent. Each country strove to develop the technology of bombers and the high-altitude fighters that could intercept them. The concept of air superiority began to play a heavy role in aircraft designs for both the United States and the Soviet Union.\n\nThe use of nuclear weapons first came into being during the last months of WWII, with the dropping of atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. This was the only use of nuclear weapons in combat. For a decade after World War II, the United States and later the Soviet Union (and to a lesser extent the United Kingdom and France) developed and maintained a strategic force of bombers that would be able to attack any potential aggressor from bases inside their countries.\n\nBefore the development of a capable strategic missile force in the Soviet Union, much of the war-fighting doctrine held by western nations revolved around the use of a large number of smaller nuclear weapons used in a tactical role. It is arguable if such use could be considered \"limited\" however, because it was believed that the US would use their own strategic weapons (mainly bombers at the time) should the USSR deploy any kind of nuclear weapon against civilian targets.\n\nA revolution in thinking occurred with the introduction of the intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM), which the Soviet Union first successfully tested in the late 1950s. To deliver a warhead to a target, a missile was far less expensive than a bomber that could do the same job. Moreover, at the time it was impossible to intercept ICBMs due to their high altitude and speed.\n\nIn the 1960s, another major shift in nuclear doctrine occurred with the development of the submarine-based nuclear missile (SLBM). It was hailed by military theorists as a weapon that would assure a surprise attack would not destroy the capability to retaliate, and therefore would make nuclear war less likely.\n\nSince the end of WWII, no industrial nations have fought such a large, decisive war, due to the availability of weapons that are so destructive that their use would offset the advantages of victory. The fighting of a total war where nuclear weapons are used is something that instead of taking years and the full mobilisation of a country's resources such as in WWII, would take tens of minutes. Such weapons are developed and maintained with relatively modest peace time defence budgets.\n\nBy the end of the 1950s, the ideological stand-off of the Cold War between the Western World and the Soviet Union involved thousands of nuclear weapons being aimed at each side by the other. Strategically, the equal balance of destructive power possessed by each side situation came to be known as Mutually Assured Destruction (MAD), the idea that a nuclear attack by one superpower would result in nuclear counter-strike by the other. This would result in hundreds of millions of deaths in a world where, in words widely attributed to Nikita Khrushchev, \"The living will envy the dead\".\n\nDuring the Cold War, the superpowers sought to avoid open conflict between their respective forces, as both sides recognized that such a clash could very easily escalate, and quickly involve nuclear weapons. Instead, the superpowers fought each other through their involvement in proxy wars, military buildups, and diplomatic standoffs.\n\nIn the case of proxy wars, each superpower supported its respective allies in conflicts with forces aligned with the other superpower, such as in the Korean War, the Vietnam War, and the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.\n\n\nMaterial aspects:\n\nSpecific:\n\n"}
{"id": "2263256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263256", "title": "International Water Management Institute", "text": "International Water Management Institute\n\nThe International Water Management Institute (IWMI) is a non-profit research organisation with headquarters in Colombo, Sri Lanka, and offices across Africa and Asia. Research at the Institute focuses on improving how water and land resources are managed, with the aim of underpinning food security and reducing poverty while safeguarding vital environmental processes.\n\nAs water becomes scarcer, there is a growing need to find ways to produce sufficient food to feed the world’s expanding population, while using less water, safeguarding fragile environmental services and without having much opportunity to open up new agricultural lands. The Institute undertakes research projects with this aim in mind.\n\nIts research focuses on: water availability and access, including adaptation to climate change; how water is used and how it can be used more productively; water quality and its relationship to health and the environment; and how societies govern their water resources. In 2012, IWMI was awarded the prestigious Stockholm Water Prize Laureate by Stockholm International Water Institute for its pioneering research, which has helped to improve agricultural water management, enhance food security, protect environmental health and alleviate poverty in developing countries.\n\nIWMI is a member of CGIAR, a global research partnership that unites organizations engaged in research for sustainable development, and leads the CGIAR Research Program on Water, Land and Ecosystems. IWMI is also a partner in the CGIAR Research Programs on: Aquatic Agricultural Systems (AAS); Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security (CCAFS); Dryland Systems; and Integrated Systems for the Humid Tropics.\n\nThe Institute was founded under the name International Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI) in 1985 by the Ford Foundation and the Government of Sri Lanka, supported by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research and the World Bank. During the Green Revolution of the 1940s to 1970s, billions of dollars had been spent building large-scale irrigation systems. These contributed, along with new fertilizers, pesticides and high-yielding varieties of seeds, to helping many countries produce greater quantities of food crops. By the mid 1980s, however, these irrigation systems were no longer performing efficiently; IIMI's job was to find out why.\n\nIIMI's researchers discovered that problems affecting irrigation were often more institutional than technical. It advocated ‘Participatory Irrigation Management’ (PIM) as the solution, an approach that sought to involve farmers in water management decisions. In 1992, the Rio de Janeiro Earth Summit gave credence to this approach by recommending that water management be decentralized, with farmers and other stakeholders playing a more important role in managing natural resources. Initially met with resistance, PIM went on to become the status quo for governments and major lending agencies. IIMI became a member of the CGIAR system in 1991.\n\nBy the mid 1990s, competition for water resources was rising, thanks to a larger global population, expanding cities and increasing industrial applications. Viewing irrigation in isolation was no longer relevant to the global situation. A new approach was needed that would consider it within a river basin context, encompassing competing users and the environment. IIMI began developing new fields of research, on topics such as open and closed basins, water accounting, multiple-use systems, basin institutions, remote sensing analysis and environmental flows. In 1998, its name changed to the International Water Management Institute (IWMI), reflecting this new wider approach.\n\nAlthough it was becoming evident that water could no longer be considered an \"infinite resource\", as had been the case in the 1950s when there were fewer people on the planet, no one knew just how scarce the resource was. This prompted IWMI to try to find out. Its research culminated in publication of \"Water for food, Water for life: A comprehensive assessment of water management in agriculture\". A map within the report showed that a third of the world’s population already suffered from ‘water scarcity’. The report defined physical water scarcity, as being where there are insufficient water resources to meet the demands of the population, and economic water scarcity as where water requirements are not satisfied because of a lack of investment in water or human capacity.\nIWMI’s approach towards defining water scarcity provided a new context within which the scientific debate on water availability subsequently became centred. For example, the theme of the UN World Water Day in 2007 was Coping with Water Scarcity; The USA's Worldwatch Institute featured a chapter on water management in its assessment \"State of the World 2008\"; and reports published in 2009 by the World Economic Forum and UNESCO concluded that water scarcity is now a bigger threat than the global financial crisis. Dr. Rajendra K. Pachauri, Chair of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, also highlighted water scarcity at the 2009 Nobel Conference.\n\nIf current trends continue, global annual water usage is set to increase by more than two trillion cubic metres by 2030, rising to 6.9 trillion cubic metres. That equates to 40 per cent more than can be provided by available water supplies. At Stockholm World Water Week 2010, IWMI highlighted a six-point plan for averting a water crisis. According to the Institute, the following actions are required: 1) gather high-quality data about water resources; 2) take better care of the environment; 3) reform how water resources are governed; 4) revitalize how water is used for farming; 5) better manage urban and municipal demands for water; and 6) involve marginalized people in water management.\n\nIn 2011, IWMI celebrated its 25th anniversary by commissioning a series of essays on agricultural and development.\n\nIWM's work in Gujarat, India, exemplifies how improving water management can have an influence on peoples' livelihoods. The state faced the dual problem of bankrupt electricity utilities and depleted groundwater storage following the introduction of electricity subsidies to farmers from around 1970. The situation arose because the subsidies enabled farmers to easily pump groundwater from ever-increasing depths. The Asian Development Bank and World Bank both indicated that governments should cut the electricity subsidies and charge farmers based on metered consumption of power. However, when some state governments tried to do so, the farmers formed such powerful lobbies that several chief ministers lost their seats. A different solution was clearly required.\n\nIWMI scientists who studied the problem suggested governments should introduce ‘intelligent rationing’ of farm power supply by separating the power cables carrying electricity to farmers from those supplying other rural users, such as domestic households and industries. They should then provide farmers with a high-quality power supply for a set number of hours each day at a price they could afford. Eventually Gujarat decided to include these recommendations in a larger programme to reform the electricity utility. A study conducted afterwards found its impacts to be much greater than anticipated. Prior to the change, tube-well owners had been holding rural communities to ransom by ‘stealing’ power for irrigation. After the cables were separated, rural households, schools and industries had a much higher-quality power supply, which in turn boosted individuals’ well-being.\n\n"}
{"id": "31033296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31033296", "title": "King Salman Center for Disability Research", "text": "King Salman Center for Disability Research\n\nThe King Salman Center for Disability Research (KSCDR; ) is a non-profit organization based in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. It conducts and funds laboratory and field research on all aspects and ages of disability. Its aim is to improve the quality of life of all persons living with disabilities by promoting research that results in real life changes and activities that help reduce the impact of disability.\n\nKSCDR is named in honor of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. It was founded in 1992 by His Royal Highness Prince Sultan bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud to complement the Disabled Children Association (DCA), a service-oriented organization for children living with disabilities in Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn 2005, KSCDR launched the Newborn Screening program in partnership with the Ministry of Health, King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre, and several MOH affiliated hospitals in Saudi Arabia. The program screens for 16 different types of inherited metabolic and endocrine disorders and averages over 170,000 yearly screenings.\n\nIn 2010, KSCDR published the Universal Accessibility Guidelines as part of its campaign to introduce the universal accessibility concept in Saudi Arabia.\n\nKSCDR provides in-school training workshops for teachers to help them recognize and teach students with LD. It collaborates with the Center for Child Evaluation and Teaching in Kuwait and with local and international experts to develop standardized learning disability assessment tools in Arabic. In 2012, KSCDR forged a partnership with McGraw-Hill Education Services to develop educational programs benefiting students with learning difficulties.\n\nKSCDR is actively pursuing a number of research topics. These include research in the area of visual impairment, speech impairment, autism, and mental health.\n\nIn December 2010, KSCDR established the King Salman Award for Disability Research to recognize significant contributions and impact made by individuals and/or organizations in the field of disability. \nNominations are accepted from local, regional, and international research and scientific organizations, societies and agencies dealing with disabled individuals, and academic departments, faculties, and universities. Nominations from individuals are not accepted.\n\nThe Award is granted in the following three main areas of disability:\n\nAwardees in their respective areas receive the following:\n\nKSCDR received the European Union's Chaillot Award in 2011 for its work on protecting the rights of the disabled.\n\nKSCDR is the recipient of the 2011-2012 Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum Award for the Best Medical College/Institution or Centre in the Arab World.\n\n"}
{"id": "55300590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55300590", "title": "List of Muslim feminists", "text": "List of Muslim feminists\n\nThis is a list of important participants in Muslim feminism, originally sorted by surname within each period.\n\nIt may include, for instance, earlier authors who did not self-identify as feminists but have been claimed to have furthered \"feminist consciousness\" by a resistance of male dominance expressed in their works.\n\nBorn between 1801 and 1874.\nBorn between 1875 and 1939.\nBorn between 1940 and 2017\n! width=\"70\" | Period (birth)\n! width=\"350\" | Name\n! width=\"120\" | Country\n! width=\"60\" | Born\n! width=\"40\" | Died\n! class= width=\"600px\" | Comments\n! class=width=\"20px\" | Source\n"}
{"id": "17503825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17503825", "title": "List of countries by real population density based on food growing capacity", "text": "List of countries by real population density based on food growing capacity\n\nThis is a list of countries ordered by physiological density. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20142418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20142418", "title": "Military Intelligence Civilian Excepted Career Program", "text": "Military Intelligence Civilian Excepted Career Program\n\nThe Military Intelligence Civilian Excepted Career Program or MICECP, is a Department of the Army Headquarters career management program administered by the US Army Field Support Center of the US Army Intelligence and Security Command (INSCOM). The Military Intelligence Civilian Excepted Career Program is tasked with recruiting, training and developing a dedicated civilian intelligence workforce to conduct sensitive intelligence and counterintelligence operations missions worldwide. The program operates from Fort George G. Meade, Maryland.\n\nMilitary Intelligence Civilian Excepted Career Program members, are actively recruited, trained, and assigned to conduct highly specialized operational intelligence functions within the Army, as Intelligence Operations Specialists. Members must agree to a mobility agreement and be willing to be assigned and reassigned according to the needs of the program. Positions filled by MICECP employees may require competency in any one or more of the following fields: Foreign Counterintelligence, Offensive Counterintelligence Operations (OFCO), counterintelligence investigations, collection, analysis, production, Force Protection, Target Exploitation (TAREX), Human Intelligence (HUMINT) operations, counterintelligence force protection source operations (CFSO), liaison, intelligence support, staff management, technical intelligence disciplines, support to special mission units/special operations forces (SMU/SOF), foreign languages, technology protection, and advice and assistance.\n\nIntel program can prep soldiers for post-service career https://www.armytimes.com/news/your-army/2015/11/02/intel-program-can-prep-soldiers-for-post-service-career/\n"}
{"id": "712325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=712325", "title": "Military funeral", "text": "Military funeral\n\nA military funeral is a memorial or burial rite given by a country's military for a soldier, sailor, marine or airman who died in battle, a veteran, or other prominent military figures or heads of state. A military funeral may feature guards of honor, the firing of volley shots as a salute, drumming and other military elements, with a flag draping over the coffin.\n\nCanadian military funerals involve many rituals seen in other parts of the world. The Royal Canadian Horse Artillery use a 25-pounder gun and limber as the funeral vehicle. Muffled drums accompany the graveside processional. The deceased's headdress, insignia and medals are borne on a velvet cushion into the funeral service. Volleys are fired over the grave when the body is interred. Countries in the Commonwealth duplicate the British military drill and ceremony. The Canadian funeral described above typifies the funerary service. The bugle tune \"Last Post\" is played as the body is interred.\n\nIn Chilean military funerals, due to its Prussian military tradition, the German song \"Ich hatt' einen Kameraden\" is sung in its Spanish version (\"Yo tenía un camarada\"). The casket may or may not be horse-drawn on a caisson. A bugler sounds the final honors during interment.\n\nWhen the coffin enters the tomb, a fireteam executes a salvo. If for a general or flag officer, the 1st Artillery Regiment \"Tacna\" fires a three-volley gun salute.\n\nIn Germany, Ludwig Uhland's song \"Ich hatt' einen Kameraden\" is an integral part of a military funeral. It is played when the coffin is lowered into the grave,\nmilitary personnel will perform a salute.\n\nIn Indonesia, military funerals are generally given only military members or former guerrillas, Konfrontasi and Trikora Operation Soldiers, especially those holding the Bintang Gerilya (Star of the Guerrilla). Exceptional politicians and Ministers have the option for such a funeral, but most opt for a more intimate religious one. Music is not performed as it is not part of Indonesian military tradition, save only during the final honors. A 21-gun volley salute is the norm by seven soldiers- occasionally a mixture of armed forces personnel dependent on their career, Honour drill team is platoon-size formation and the larger the platoon or half company, the more illustrious the departed. A good example of an Indonesian military burial is that of the late president Suharto- (although obvious major differences exist). Prayers are led by representatives of the person's religious faith. Similar traditions also exist in the Indonesian National Police.\n\nSee here: Indonesian Military Funeral Video Sample\n\nIn Italy the members of the Armed Forces who died in the line of duty are granted a state funeral by decree of the Prime Minister. So the funeral follows the protocol of a state funeral, and in particular the six officers in high uniform who carry the coffin are members of the same Armed Force of the departed.\n\nIn Poland, the last fragment of Władysław Tarnowski's song \"Śpij, kolego\" (\"Sleep, friend\"), a portion of the larger composition \"Jak to na wojence ładnie\" (the title has no precise English translation, but it is roughly \"how nice it is in war\", with a diminutive form conveying a sense of ironic solidarity) is an integral part of a military funeral, played by a trumpeter. It is also played during state ceremonies. Also part of it is a three volley salute (\"salwa honorowa\") with the firing party consisting of an armed platoon or company.\n\nIn Spain, the formed troops sing \"La muerte no es el final\": \"Death is not the End\" during funeral ceremonies and in all military ceremonies, when the fallen are being honored. The Spanish Legion has an exception: the regimental hymn \"Novio de la Muerte\" (\"Bridegroom of Death\") is played in full instead during occasions that the Legion attends.\n\nThe British Army carries reversed arms at military funerals. The Last Post and Rouse or Reveille are sounded at the right moment during the rite.\n\nIn the United States, the United States Army Military District of Washington (MDW) is responsible for providing military funerals. \"Honoring Those Who Served\" is the title of the program for instituting a dignified military funeral with full honors to the nation's veterans.\n\nAs of January 1, 2000, Section 578 of Public Law 106-65 of the National Defense Authorization Act mandates that the United States Armed Forces shall provide the rendering of honors in a military funeral for any eligible veteran if requested by his or her family. As mandated by federal law, an honor guard detail for the burial of an eligible veteran shall consist of no fewer than two members of the Armed Forces. One member of the detail shall be a representative of the parent armed service of the deceased veteran. The honor guard detail will, at a minimum, perform a ceremony that includes the folding and presenting of the flag of the United States to the next of kin and the playing of \"Taps\" which will be played by a lone bugler, if available, or by audio recording. Today, there are so few buglers available that the United States Armed Forces often cannot provide one. However, federal law allows Reserve and National Guard units to assist with funeral honors duty when necessary. On the day of the burial or interment, the U.S. Flag is lowered to half-staff.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35431042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35431042", "title": "Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports (South Sudan)", "text": "Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports (South Sudan)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports is a ministry of the Government of South Sudan. The incumbent minister is Dr. Nadia Arop Dudi \n"}
{"id": "27703587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27703587", "title": "Ministry of Health (Brazil)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Brazil)\n\nThe Ministry of Health (Portuguese: \"Ministério da Saúde\") is a cabinet-level federal ministry in Brazil. The current Minister of Health is Ricardo Barros.\n\n"}
{"id": "4843667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4843667", "title": "National Committee on American Foreign Policy", "text": "National Committee on American Foreign Policy\n\nThe National Committee on American Foreign Policy (NCAFP) is an American nonprofit, nonpartisan activist organization dedicated to the resolution of conflicts that threaten United States interests.\n\nFounded in 1974 by Hans Morgenthau, the organization works to identify, articulate, and advance U.S. foreign-policy interests within the framework of political realism.\n\nThe U.S. foreign-policy interests of the NCAFP include:\n\nThe organization believes that an informed public is vital to a democratic society. To promote this, it offers educational programs to its members and general audiences that address security challenges facing the U.S. and publishes a variety of publications, including the bimonthly journal, \"American Foreign Policy Interests\".\n\nThe National Committee was founded in 1974 by Hans J. Morgenthau and others dedicated to the resolution of conflicts that threaten U.S. interests.\n\nThe National Committee grew quickly in size and influence. It held public seminars regularly, assembled task forces in order to analyze areas of critical concern to the United States, and published journals and pamphlets containing summaries and policy recommendations derived from high-level conferences and briefings featuring American and foreign policymakers. In 1981, the first Hans J. Morgenthau Award was presented to NCAFP president Angier Biddle Duke. Subsequent recipients have included Henry Kissinger, George Shultz, James Baker III, the Margaret Thatcher, and Colin Powell. A second award, the George F. Kennan Award for Distinguished Public Service, was established in 1994. Recipients include George F. Kennan, the Cyrus R. Vance, the Paul A. Volcker, Richard C. Holbrooke, John D. Negroponte, and General David H. Petraeus.\n\nIn 1993 William J. Flynn, chairman and chief executive officer of Mutual of America, became the chairman of the National Committee. When the British and Irish governments issued the Downing Street Declaration at the end of that year, the National Committee under his leadership placed a full-page ad in \"The New York Times\" challenging every party involved in the conflict to attend an NCAFP-sponsored conference to air the arguments of all sides. The National Committee was instrumental in convincing President Bill Clinton to issue a visa to Gerry Adams, the leader of Sinn Féin. Adams's first appearance in the United States enabled him to begin to develop ties with key leaders in New York and Washington that gave him and his party the assurance necessary to enter into peace negotiations, sign the Belfast Agreement, and contend for and win political office in the North. In recognition of William Flynn's achievements, the National Committee established the William J. Flynn Initiative for Peace Award in 1997. Among the recipients are George J. Mitchell, Marjorie Mowlam, Viola Drath, Hugh Carey, and Gerry Adams, M.P.\n\nShortly after establishing its Northern Ireland project, the NCAFP launched its track I-½ and track II project on U.S.-China relations and the question of Taiwan. The project gradually grew into the Forum on Asia-Pacific Security. The NCAFP, under this thematic umbrella, sponsored security talks with North Korea on nuclear issues and, more recently, security issues affecting U.S.-Japan and U.S.-South Korea relations. The entire Forum on Asia-Pacific Security is largely conducted at track I-½ and track II levels.\n\nSince its founding, the National Committee has focused its attention on significant geopolitical regions such as the Middle East and strategic partnerships such as Transatlantic Relations. More recently, as an outgrowth of those studies, the NCAFP established projects on the Caspian Sea Basin and U.S.-UN relations, as well as on Africa. While the Committee's scope has broadened, it remains anchored to its values: the preservation and strengthening of national security; supporting political, religious, and cultural pluralism; improving U.S. relations with its allies; advancing human rights; curbing nuclear proliferation and encouraging realistic arms-control agreements; and promoting an open global economy.\n\nIts long-term task forces bring together U.S. and foreign scholars, foreign-policy practitioners, and others to off-the-record and sometimes closed-door forums where adversaries can, over a period of years, air their views unencumbered by official rhetoric.\n\nShorter-term task forces deal with immediate foreign policy challenges facing the U.S.\n\nThe organization's Meetings Program offers members and guests the opportunity to share their thoughts on U.S. foreign policy with influential policymakers, diplomats, renowned scholars, and foreign policy specialists. Each year, the organization convenes a series of programs, including single speaker events, panels and round tables addressing immediate and long-term issues of national security.\n\nIn May 2004, it launched its Forum on Northeast Asian Security. Projects chaired by Henry Kissinger and Paul Volcker include exploring the potential for a nuclear-free Korean Peninsula; a Northeast Asian Security Forum, composed of the U.S., Japan, China, Russia, South Korea and North Korea; and breaking the impasse between China and Taiwan.\n\nA distinguishing activity of the organization is the publication and dissemination of firm, reasoned positions designed to help formulate American foreign policy. When, after study and discussion, the organization or one of its task forces reaches a consensus on an aspect of foreign policy that affects American national interests, it makes that judgment known to the Administration, the U.S. Congress, the media and the general public.\n\nA long-time component of the organization's publication series was its bimonthly journal, \"American Foreign Policy Interests\". The journal presented authoritative and provocative articles on critical questions of foreign policy written by leading scholars and policy experts. It was discontinued in 2015.\n\nThe organization publishes short booklets of policy reports and recommendations. Additionally, the organization publishes speeches and summaries of discussions that have been the hallmarks of its foreign policy briefings, lecture series, and award ceremonies.\n\nThe organization presents five awards:\n\nThe award was established in 1981 to commemorate Morgenthau's seminal contributions to the theory and the practice of American foreign policy. It is awarded to an individual whose intellectual attainments and/or practical contributions to U.S. foreign policy have been judged so exemplary in the tradition of Professor Morgenthau as to merit this singular award. Recipients include:\nThe award was established in 1994 in honor of George F. Kennan, scholar, diplomat and statesman. It honors an American who has served the U.S. in an exemplary way and has made a seminal contribution to defining and illuminating the national interests of the U.S. Recipients include:\nThe award was established 1997 as the Initiative for Peace Award in honor of William J. Flynn, NCAFP chairman, for his decisive leadership and daring diplomacy in spurring two cease-fires and promoting the peace process in Northern Ireland. Renamed in 2001, it is presented to an individual who has worked tirelessly to resolve a conflict that has affected the national interests of the U.S. Recipients include:\nThe award honors a prominent business leader whose efforts have contributed to setting an unimpeachable standard for globally oriented corporate citizenship promoting the national interests of the U.S. Recipients include:\n\n\nThe award was created to recognize the achievements of individuals under the age of 40 who display a serious commitment to furthering the U.S.'s strategic policy interests in accord with the principles of political realism. Through their professional or personal pursuits, they make important contributions to the international dialogue and demonstrate a promising future in the realm of U.S. foreign policy. Recipients include:\n"}
{"id": "30514573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30514573", "title": "Noah Musingku", "text": "Noah Musingku\n\nNoah Musingku, under the name \"King David Peii II\", is head of the twin \"kingdoms\" of Papaala and Me’ekamui on Bougainville Island in the North Solomon Islands. Musingku is the creator of U-Vistract which was banned as a pyramid scheme outside of the kingdoms.\n\nBougainville Island is geographically and ethnically a part of the Solomon Island archipelago. It was an autonomous region of Papua New Guinea (PNG). In 1988 a civil war began with workers and landowners from Panguna mine (See also Panguna). This mine, owned by the PNG government and Bougainville Copper, a subsidiary of Rio Tinto Group, was established under Australian aegis.\n\nA Unilateral Declaration of Independence was made on 17 May 1990, but Australian and New Zealand-brokered peace talks tended to ignore this fact. Francis Ona controlled over half of the island, and proclaimed himself king of Me’ekamui (“holy land”) in May 2004. Musingku assumed the throne of Paapala Kingdom, as well as his 500-man \"Me'ekamui Defense Force\" in the same year, and upon Ona’s death from malaria in July 2005, Musingku consolidated control of the “Twin Kingdoms” on Bougainville Island.\n\nIn 1997, seven years after the unilateral declaration of independence, the Bougainville Revolutionary Army was in control of the island, but its leadership split into factions. Ona was in control of the army, and sought full independence. His co-president in the Bougainville Interim Government, Joseph Kabui, sought rapprochement with PNG and formation of an Autonomous Bougainville Government. Musingku met with each of them as a mediator, and by 19 December 1997\nhad signed agreements with each. They jointly realized that it would be impossible to achieve political independence without financial sovereignty. As Musingku’s wrote,\n\nAt first, the “U-Vistract Mission” was established as a Christian mission program in Australia. Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) found it to be an unlicensed securities and investment program.\n\n\"On October 19th 1999 in one of my trips to Australia the ASIC placed me under house-arrest…. After a heavy interrogatory session they demanded me to shut down all my operations in the country. The ASIC publicized the matter in the media to let the world of Australia know about the so-called illegal operations. However, U-Vistract grew even stronger, gaining momentum almost overnight. The number of my agencies grew in Kempsey, Sydney, Brisbane, Gold coast, etc.\"\nFrom Australia, he went to Pt Moresby, Papua New Guinea. While in Pt Moresby, he tried to set up a bank in the old Hawaiian Bank building, but he was shut down by the PNG government and forced to leave to the Solomon Islands. He began again to set up his system, but the Australian police in the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands (RAMSI) forced him out. In 2003 he travelled to Ona’s headquarters in Guava, Panguna, Bougainville, and established a bank there. Two years later he was able to travel to his ancestral village of Tonu, where he established his bank headquarters in an old cattle farm owned by the paramount chief.\n\nA Pentecostal Christian, most of his talks and writings are generously sprinkled with biblical references. U-Vistract was initially created as a Christian Mission, and this has continued to be its focus. Musingku has compared his life and mission to that of Biblical saviors Noah, Moses or Jesus Christ. On the new currency that he intends to issue, pictures of Jesus will join the likenesses of Musingku and other Bougainvillean leaders.\n\nMusingku exercised his powers as Head of State of Bougainville. In 2005 he announced that he was hiring a security force from Fiji to train his guards and other governmental personnel, as well as establish security and satellite and other telecommunications for his bank in Tonu. He said that this Fijian security force had been hand selected \"mostly Born-Again Christians with overseas experience in Iraq and other areas\".\n"}
{"id": "17126280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17126280", "title": "Norwegian Universities and Colleges Admission Service", "text": "Norwegian Universities and Colleges Admission Service\n\nThe Norwegian Universities and Colleges Admission Service () is a Norwegian government agency responsible for application and admission to all public universities and university colleges in Norway for entry level degrees, either Bachelor degrees for liberal studies and some professional studies, as well as certain Master level programs in professional studies. The agency is subordinate to the Norwegian Ministry of Education and Research and is managed by the University of Oslo.\n\nTraditionally Norwegian universities and colleges had a system of local admission control. This system was tedious since each person had to apply to each institution and it was difficult to manage declines from students who were accepted to other institutions. Particularly in 1990 there was a massive increase in the application to higher educations and this resulted in an immense workload on the local administrators.\n\nTo solve this problem, the Government initiated a program to effectivise the application and admission system. Until 1994 the system merely collected information from the institutions, but from 1995 for the colleges and 1997 for the universities the admission rankings were centralized through the system so each applicant only got one admission place. From 1999 application via the Internet was possible, and from 2008 only online application is possible. After 2000 the grades from the upper secondary schools are automatically transferred to the system.\n\nThe system opens on February 1 each year, with application deadline April 15. Some special groups have application deadline March 1. On the application up to ten prioritized programs can be specified. The order of their programs can be altered up to July 1, but no new program can be added after April 15. On July 20 the main admission is run and made known to the applicants, and no one is given more than one admission; on the highest ranked program that the candidate is qualified for and has enough points for after a specialized stable marriage algorithm. Programs with more applicants get waiting lists. Later in the summer and during the fall more people are admitted from the lists if enough people from the main admission decline the places. Studies with insufficient applicants to fill up become part of the \"Remains Market\" (Restetorget), which offers first-to-grab principle after the main application. Only entry-level programs are run through the system. Admission from bachelor to master level programs is still handled locally.\n\nThe applicants is ranked on a point scheme, where the qualified candidates with the most points are given admission. The qualifications vary from program to program, but almost all require general university admissions certification. Some programs, like engineering or medicine require extra upper secondary level courses in mathematics and sciences, which can be attained through a foundation course in engineering. The points are based first on the average grade from upper secondary school, multiplied by ten. Additional points are awarded for sciences, age, specialization and completed 60 ECTS credits or military service. Quota points for gender are applicable for some programs.\n\nThe institution who owns the top prioritized program on each application is defined as the case handler for that application. The case handler sets the correct points values and (dis)qualification codes. Often helped by the national database for upper secondary school diplomas, also run by Samordna opptak. Each applicant has in average 1.1 case handlers compared to one per institution before 1995.\n\nIn 2007 92,750 people applied for studying through the system, of which 76,936 sent in necessary documentation and 69,529 were qualified. Two of three people who were offered a place through the main admission, were granted their first choice. There are about 1,200 possible programs at seven universities and about 40 colleges.\n"}
{"id": "30294879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30294879", "title": "OR Books", "text": "OR Books\n\nOR Books is a New York-based independent publishing house founded by John Oakes and Colin Robinson in 2009. The company sells digital and print-on-demand books directly to the customer and focuses on creative promotion through traditional media and the Internet. On its site, OR Books states that it \"embraces progressive change in politics, culture and the way we do business.\"\n\nNot long after its founding in 2009, OR Books became known for publishing \"\", a parody of the Sarah Palin biography, which went on to become a \"New York Times\" Best Seller. Since then the company has published books by Julian Assange, Moustafa Bayoumi, Medea Benjamin, Patrick Cockburn, Sue Coe, Simon Critchley, Lisa Dierbeck, Ariel Dorfman, Norman Finkelstein, Laura Flanders, Chris Lehmann, Gordon Lish, Bill McKibben, Eileen Myles, Yoko Ono, Barney Rosset, Douglas Rushkoff, Elissa Shevinsky, Burhan Sönmez, Jeanne Thornton, and others.\n\nAccording to OR's website, John Oakes co-founded the publishing company Four Walls Eight Windows and was subsequently publisher of Thunder's Mouth Press and co-publisher of Nation Books. He is publisher of the Evergreen Review. Colin Robinson, a former senior editor at Scribner, was previously managing director of Verso Books and publisher of The New Press.\n\nIn September 2010, OR Books announced a partnership with a writers' collective known as Mischief & Mayhem, whose members include Dale Peck, Lisa Dierbeck, Joshua Furst, DW Gibson, and Choire Sicha.\n\nIn what the industry newsblog Shelf Awareness termed a \"very significant...move,\" St. Mark’s Bookshop and OR Books announced a joint venture to enable the store’s customers to buy select books on OR’s list from the bookstore’s website.\n\nIn April 2016, OR Books acquired UK publishing company Serif, following the death in 2015 of its founder Stephen Hayward, a former associate of Robinson's.\n\nIn May 2016, OR Books and Counterpoint Press announced a partnership whereby Counterpoint would put a number of OR's titles into stores. \n\n"}
{"id": "761310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761310", "title": "Ordoliberalism", "text": "Ordoliberalism\n\nOrdoliberalism is the German variant of social liberalism that emphasizes the need for the state to ensure that the free market produces results close to its theoretical potential.\n\nOrdoliberal ideals became the foundation of the creation of the post-World War II German social market economy and its attendant .\n\nThe term \"ordoliberalism\" () was coined in 1950 by , and refers to the academic journal \"ORDO\".\n\nOrdoliberals separate themselves from classical liberals. Notably , with , founder of ordoliberalism and the Freiburg School, rejected neoliberalism.\n\nOrdoliberals promoted the concept of the social market economy, and this concept promotes a strong role for the state with respect to the market, which is in many ways different from the ideas connected to the term neoliberalism. Oddly the term neoliberalism was originally coined in 1938, at the , by , who is regarded an ordoliberal today.\n\nBecause of the connected history ordoliberalism is also sometimes referred to as \"German neoliberalism\". This led to frequent confusion and \"mix ups\" of terms and ideas in the discourse, debate and criticism of both economic schools of liberalism until in 1991 the political economists with and in 2001 Peter A. Hall and David Soskice with \"Varieties of Capitalism\" aimed to separate the concepts and develop the new terms liberal market economy and coordinated market economy to distinguish neoliberalism and ordoliberalism.\n\nThe theory was developed from about 1930 to 1950 by German economists and legal scholars from the Freiburg School, such as , , , and .\n\nOrdoliberal ideals (with modifications) drove the creation of the post-World War II German social market economy. They were especially influential on forming a firm competition law in Germany. However the social market economy was implemented in economies where corporatism was already well established, so ordoliberal ideals were not as far reaching as the theory's economic founders had intended.\n\nSince the 1960s, ordoliberal influence on economics and jurisprudence has significantly diminished however many German economists define themselves as Ordoliberals through the present day, the \"ORDO\" is still published, and the Faculty of Economics at the University of Freiburg is still teaching ordoliberalism. Additionally, some institutes and foundations such as the and the are engaged in the ordoliberal tradition.\n\nOrdoliberalism was a major influence on the economic model developed in post-war West Germany. Ordoliberalism in Germany became known as the social market economy. \n\nThe Ordoliberal model implemented in Germany was started under the government administration of . His government's Minister of Economics, , was a known Ordoliberal and adherent of the Freiburg School. Under , some, but not all, price controls were lifted, and taxes on small businesses and corporations were lowered. Furthermore, social security and pensions were increased to provide a social base income. Ordoliberals have stated that these policies led to the , or economic miracle.\n\nOrdoliberal theory holds that the state must create a proper legal environment for the economy and maintain a healthy level of competition (rather than just \"exchange\") through measures that adhere to market principles. This is the foundation of its legitimacy. The concern is that, if the state does not take active measures to foster competition, firms with monopoly (or oligopoly) power will emerge, which will not only subvert the advantages offered by the market economy, but also possibly undermine good government, since strong economic power can be transformed into political power.\n\nAccording to Stephen Padgett \"A central tenet of ordo-liberalism is a clearly defined division of labor in economic management, with specific responsibilities assigned to particular institutions. Monetary policy should be the responsibility of a central bank committed to monetary stability and low inflation, and insulated from political pressure by independent status. Fiscal policy—balancing tax revenue against government expenditure—is the domain of the government, whilst macro-economic policy is the preserve of employers and trade unions.\" The state should form an economic order instead of directing economic processes, and three negative examples ordoliberals used to back their theories were Nazism, Keynesianism, and Russian socialism. The Ordoliberal idea of a social market economy is often seen as a progressive alternative beyond left and right and as a third way between collectivism and laissez-faire liberalism.\n\nWhile the ordoliberal idea of a social market is similar to that of the third-way social democracy advocated by the likes of the New Labour government (especially during the premiership of Tony Blair), there are a few key differences. Whilst they both adhere to the idea of providing a moderate stance between socialism and capitalism, the ordoliberal social market model often combines private enterprise with government regulation to establish fair competition (although German network industries are known to have been deregulated), whereas advocates of the third-way social democracy model have been known to oversee multiple economic deregulations. The third way social democracy model has also foreseen a clash of ideas regarding the establishment of the welfare state, in comparison to the ordoliberal's idea of a social market model being open to the benefits of social welfare.\n\nOrdoliberals are also known for pursuing a minimum configuration of vital resources and progressive taxation. The ordoliberal emphasis on the privatization of public services and other public firms such as telecommunication services; wealth redistribution and minimum wage laws as regulative principles makes clear the links between this economic model and the social market economy.\n\nAccording to and , ordoliberalism is central to the German approach to the European sovereign-debt crisis, which has often led to conflicts with other European countries. \n\nNobel laureate Friedrich Hayek commented on the Ordoliberals in his 1951 article, \"The Transmission of the Ideals of Freedom\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53703151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53703151", "title": "Pametno", "text": "Pametno\n\nPametno () is a liberal political party in Croatia. The party was formed in Split in 2015 out of the citizens' initiative \"Za pametne ljude i pametan grad\" (\"For smart people and a smart city\"). The fundamental values endorsed by the party are the promotion of democracy, accountable and transparent management of public resources, civil proactive protection of fundamental human rights, economic development and environmental protection. The Party's priorities are structural reforms, education and science, and it adheres to the values of \"modern Western European countries\".\n\nPametno was founded in 2013 as citizens' initiative \"Za pametne ljude i pametan grad\" (\"For smart people and a smart city\") in the second most populous city in Croatia, Split, by computer scientist Marijana Puljak. In 2010, Puljak served as President of the Split City District of Žnjan which had around 6000 citizens. During her tenure, she achieved success by reviving social life in the district, launching the construction of a children's playground and obtaining a building permit for a new district school. In 2013, she founded the citizens' initiative, competed in the 2013 local elections and eventually, surprisingly, ended up winning 4 seats in the Split City Council. In 2015, the citizens' initiative was transformed into a political party whose work was based on the principles of 'New people for a new policy', 'Science and education as the foundation of society' and 'Policies based on evidence'. \n\nPametno participated in the 2015 parliamentary election in the 10th electoral district but did not win any seats in the Parliament. In the 2016 extraordinary parliamentary election, the Party went national as part of the two-party \"Turn Croatia Around\" coalition, eventually coming in 7th in term of votes won, but winning no seats in the Parliament. \n\nAt the 2017 local elections, the Party nominated Marijana Puljak as its candidate for the position of the Mayor of Split. She eventually came in third and did not qualify for the second round. However, Pametno won 7 seats in the Split City Council; three more than the party had won at the previous election.\n\nOn 1 December 2017 the party was admitted into the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Party as an affiliate member.\n\nThe following is a summary of the party's results in legislative elections for the Croatian Parliament. The \"Votes won\" and \"Percentage\" columns include sums of votes won by pre-election coalitions Pametno had been part of. The \"Seats won\" column includes sums of seats won by Pametno.\n"}
{"id": "5043744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5043744", "title": "Peace journalism", "text": "Peace journalism\n\nPeace journalism has been developed from research that indicates that often news about conflict has a value bias toward violence. It also includes practical methods for correcting this bias by producing journalism in both the mainstream and alternative media, and working with journalists, media professionals, audiences, and organizations in conflict.\nThis concept was proposed by Johan Galtung Other terms for this broad definition of peace journalism include conflict solution journalism, conflict sensitive journalism, constructive conflict coverage, and reporting the world.\n\nWar journalism is journalism about conflict that has a value bias towards violence and violent groups. This usually leads audiences to overvalue violent responses to conflict and ignore non-violent alternatives. This is understood to be the result of well documented news reporting conventions. These conventions focus only on physical effects of conflict (for example ignoring psychological impacts) and elite positions (which may or may not represent the actual parties and their goals). It is also biased toward reporting only the differences between parties, (rather than similarities, previous agreements, and progress on common issues) the here and now (ignoring causes and outcomes), and zero sums (assuming that one side's needs can only be met by the other side's compromise or defeat).\n\nPeace journalism aims to correct for these biases. Its operational definition is \"to allow opportunities for society at large to consider and value non-violent responses to conflict\". This involves picking up calls for, and articulations of, non-violence policies from whatever quarter, and allowing them into the public sphere.\n\nPeace journalism follows a long history of news publication, originating in non-sectarian Christian peace movements and societies of the early 19th century, which published periodicals. Sectarian organizations also created publications focused on peace as part of their proselytizing in the 19th century, as did utopian communities of the period. From the 20th century, a prominent example of sectarian journalism focused on peace was Dorothy Day's\" Catholic Worker.\"\n\nBesides being an element in the histories of pacifism and the social movement press, peace journalism is a set of journalism practices that emerged in the 1970s. Norwegian sociologist, peace researcher and practitioner Johan Galtung proposed the idea of peace journalism for journalists to follow to show how a value bias towards violence can be avoided when covering war and conflict. Christian organizations such as The World Council of Churches and The World Association for Christian Communication also practice peace journalism.\n\nPeace journalism aims to shed light on structural and cultural causes of violence, as they impact upon the lives of people in a conflict arena as part of the explanation for violence. It aims to frame conflicts as consisting of many parties and pursuing many goals rather than a simple dichotomy. An explicit aim of \"peace journalism\" is to promote peace initiatives from whatever quarter and to allow the reader to distinguish between stated positions and real goals.\n\nPeace journalism came about through research arguing there's something wrong with typical conflict reporting. Research and practice in peace journalism outlines a number of reasons for the existence and dominance of war journalism in conflict news.\n\nFirstly, the notion that media elites always act to preserve their favored status quo, and their own commercial and political interests, is given relatively little weight. Shared characteristics of the socio-economic class, which heavily influences the production of journalism, are important. For example, their shared ideological pressures, perceptions, attitudes, and values form the basis of a \"dominant reading\" of facts that are selected to appear in news. These can then act to fix and naturalize meaning and hide the actual creation of meaning.\n\nHowever, even in the presence of powerful elite media interests against war, war journalism often dominates conflict discourse. Lynch and McGoldrick show examples from Britain, Ireland, Georgia, and Iraq, where \"war journalism\" dominated coverage despite key influential media interests against war.\n\nTherefore, not only political and economic, but also social and cultural factors have contributed to the dominance of war journalism in conflict reporting. With the growth of mass media, especially from the 19th century, news advertising became the most important source of media revenue.\n\nWhole audiences needed to be engaged across communities and regions to maximize advertising revenue. This led to \"Journalistic objectivity as an industry standard…a set of conventions allowing the news to be presented as all things to all people\". And in modern journalism, especially with the emergence of 24 hour news cycles, speed is of the essence in responding to breaking stories. It is not possible for reporters to decide \"from first principals\" every time how they will report each and every story that presents itself. It follows that convention governs much of journalism.\n\nThe rise of journalistic objectivity was part of a larger movement within western academia to a more empirical \"just report the facts” epistemology and research paradigm. By the 1890s it was focused on the ideal of “objectivity”. And although it came into fashion around the same period, Journalistic Objectivity must be distinguished from the Scientific Objectivity. For example the experimental sciences uses as \"best practice\":\nWhile it is arguable whether these experimental science safe guards provide “true objectivity”, in the absence of these safeguards, journalism around conflict relies on three conventions to maintain its own form of \"objectivity\" ( also see journalistic objectivity), and is therefore distinct from Scientific Objectivity.\n\nFirstly, to sell audiences to advertisers, reporting must appeal to as broad an audience as possible and therefore focuses on “facts” that are the least controversial. Conflict processes are often controversial, so coverage of them risks alienating potential consumers, who may be sensitive to the exposure of structural or cultural predisposing factors.\n\nSecondly, a bias in favor of official sources means that, while it may appear uncontroversial, as there is only one official representative for the government on any given issue and since only the official government is usually allowed to wield legal, sanctioned force within its territory \ncoverage will tend to privilege violent responses to conflict over non-violent, social-psychological, context-informed responses.\n\nJournalists Annabel McGoldrick and Jake Lynch argue that non-critical reporting of official sources is often rewarded by those sources. Through \"information transactions\", these same official sources allow uncritical journalists privileged access to information in the future.\n\nThirdly and lastly, 'dualism' biasses journalistic objectivity towards violence: \"A decision to tell a story in that [bipolar] way can slip past, unnoticed, without drawing attention to itself because of its close resemblance, in shape and structure, to so much of the story-telling we already take for granted\".\n\nThese conventions also form “gates” by which “gatekeepers” in journalism include or exclude various aspects of reality in final publication.\n\nIn this way, proponents of \"peace journalism\" argue that in the media meaning occurs according to: “a set of rules and relations established before the reality or the experience under discussion actually occurred”. In \"war journalism\" the objectivity conventions serve this purpose, but are shadowy and unacknowledged. “Gatekeeping” is therefore likely to be secretive and haphazard. This means they distort, and also fix, meaning in conflict coverage and obfuscate the production of meaning.\n\nA recent example demonstrates how peace journalism evaluative criteria might be applied to show how much conventional conflict reporting is biased in favor of violence and violent groups. The example is the coverage leading up to the September 2009 meeting between Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, and US President Barack Obama.\n\nReporting was highly reactive and focused on the visible effects of the conflict, such as announcements and public disagreements between official spokespeople that appeared to disrupt peace efforts.\n\nCoverage was oriented to elites with little mention of non-official peace efforts by individuals and groups such as the Hand in Hand network of schools, the Israeli/Palestinian The Parents Circle Families Forum, Peace Now, Breaking the Silence, Physicians for Human Rights, Machsom Watch, and Checkpoint Watch, Hanan Ashrawi (non-violent activist for human rights, founder of the Palestinian Initiative for the Promotion of Global Dialogue and Democracy, and member of the Palestinian Legislative Council).\n\nAlso ignored were programmes that promote cultural exchange, for example (the Israeli-Palestinian Aussie Rules football team The Peace Team), see here for official 2011 team details) which played in the 2008 and 2011 AFL International Cups. Another is the current programme of Palestinian children's visits to the Old Yishuv Court Museum in the Jewish Quarter of Jerusalem. Events demonstrating non-violent responses to the conflict were also ignored, a new example being the March 12, 2011, Conference on Civil Disobedience in the West Bank marking the centenary of International Women's Day. \nProjects working for peace among Arabs and Israelis lists further organizations working for peace in the region, whose activities are generally excluded from news on the Conflict.\n\nReporting leading up to the September 2009 meeting between Netanyahu, Abbas and Obama focused almost solely on highly divisive issues, such as Israeli illegal settlements in the West Bank and Jerusalem, and the diplomatic/official status of Jerusalem. Coverage was also oriented towards differences, with a focus on the here and now. Potential benefits in physical, economic, and social security of peaceful relations were ignored, and “progress” towards peace was portrayed as having to come with one or more parties compromising and surrendering their positions on key issues, which is of course a zero sum orientation. Coverage generally ignored the background or context of positions. Positions were presented as unchangeable on any peaceful settlement, rather than the public \"face\" of unmet needs that often drive violent conflicts. Because of distrust between parties these needs are often not honestly expressed publicly.\n\nThus a pattern of \"war journalism\" emerges, largely stemming from the objectivity conventions applied to conflict reporting. Peace journalism argues that this is likely to have important and consistent effects on the way audiences understand a conflict.\n\nIn \"war journalism\", violence is typically presented as only its own cause, ignoring the possibility of structural or psychological causes. Since violence is assumed to have no cause or explanation (such as the deprived needs of parties), conventional conflict reporting may leave viewers to conclude that the only “natural” or reasonable response to violence is more violence. That “more violence—‘the only language they understand'—is an appropriate remedy”, and that non-violent responses are irrelevant or 'unrealistic'.\n\nThis focus on only physical violent behavior is an example of what leading Conflict Analyst and Peace Researcher, Johan Galtung identifies as a major flaw in responses to inter-communal conflict: the “Conservative Fallacy”.\n\nThis bias towards prioritizing violent actors with coverage is then expected by violent groups, through what is called a Feedback Loop. Parties to a conflict often try to use the media to advance their position, rather than being passive subjects, unaware of being observed, as assumed in sciences where humans are not the subjects. Journalist, and journalism Associate Professor, Jake Lynch notes that \"it is not the influence of news on public opinion as such, but assumptions by parties to conflict about its likely or possible influence, that condition their behaviour\".\n\nIn this way \"war journalism\" is an example of the role of power in representation and of the media trying to \"fix meaning\", in this case about violence and its causes, for “it to become naturalized so that is the only meaning it can possibly carry…where you cannot see that anybody ever produced it.\"\n\nThus, war journalism is understood as reporting on conflict in a way which imposes an artificially confined closed space, and closed time, with causes and exits existing only in the conflict arena. Peace journalism can then be understood as journalism that avoids this outside imposition, which more objectively assesses the possibility of conflicts taking place in \"open space\", and \"open time\" with any number of causes and exits.\n\nThe Salvadoran Civil War, largely a peasant revolution, took place 1980–92. The USA supported the right-wing government. During the war 75,000 people were killed, 8,000 more went missing and another million exiled. On 17 March 1980, the village of Ingenio Colima was attacked by paramilitaries who murdered all its occupants. At the time, the country’s media gave a biased account of what took place. The intention today – in the face of open hostility from today’s political leaders is to investigate and clarify what happened and to contribute to a national process of truth and reconciliation.\n\nThe emotional effects of \"war journalism\" also make it more difficult for audiences to be aware of this biased presentation of conflict. \"War journalism\" takes advantage of the emotional “high” humans can get from fear through evolutionary psychological mechanisms. In a similar way, war journalism appeals to \"lower order\" needs for security and belonging. \nThe pre-frontal cortex, governing working memory, rational attentive functioning, and complex thought is inhibited by activation of the brain’s fear centre, the limbic system.\n\nAudiences are thus deprived of cognitive resources with which to recognize the role of fear in encouraging \"war journalism\" consumption. This cognitive deprivation also further fixes meaning and increases the role of “automatically activated attitudes” which according to cognitive psychology: \"guide attention toward attitude-consistent information, provide a template with which to interpret ambiguous information, and…guide behaviour in a relatively spontaneous fashion\". \nTherefore viewers are primed to pay more attention to future information, which is consistent with the automatically activated attitudes formed by \"war journalism\". Research into the ever present framing in the media supports this conclusion: “Certainly people can recall their own facts, forge linkages not made explicitly in the text, or retrieve from memory a causal explanation or cure that is completely absent from the text. In essence, this is just what professors encourage their students to do habitually. But Zaller (1992), Kahneman and Tversky (1984), and Iyengar (1991), among others, suggest that on most matters of social or political interest, people are not generally so well-informed and cognitively active, and that framing therefore heavily influences their responses to communications”.\n\nResearch shows that \"war journalism\" can have negative emotional impacts on audience members. These include feelings of hopelessness and powerlessness, compounded by increased anxiety, mood disturbance, sadness and a sense of disconnection with physical and social environments. Research by Galtung and Ruge (1965) finds negativity bias in foreign news. This has also been confirmed more recently by Nohrstedt and Ottosen (2008). \nThis can affect reactions towards the conflict itself, and an audience’s general psychological wellbeing, which biasses their view of the world as excessively chaotic and may cause serious anxiety and emotional difficulties, and a sense of disempowerment and disconnection. \nVicarious trauma can increase these negative effects, where \"even ‘normal’, intelligent, educated individuals can become highly suggestible towards violent acts in formerly unexpected contexts\".\n\nThese negative emotional states may discourage audience members from criticism and challenge of the biassed information presented through war journalism. These public concerns may appear to be \"someone else’s problem\" and best left to \"experts\", who alone have the necessary knowledge, time, and emotional endurance. These negative emotional responses may also discourage creative engagement with the conflict and conflict parties. This is especially troubling considering the critical role of creativity in conflict resolution and peacebuilding.\n\nPeace journalism analysis suggests that typical news on conflict, with its value bias towards violence and violent groups, has important effects on the parties to conflict. Firstly, peace journalism proponents argue that the bias in favour of publicity for violence and violent actors, \"plays into\" the interests of violent actors to intimidate and disrupt the peace process. This is an important example of the Feedback Loop effect: \"it is not the influence of news on public opinion as such, but assumptions by parties to conflict about its likely or possible influence, that condition their behaviour\". This bias also weakens and punishes, with less publicity, non-violent groups affected by a conflict, for their lack of violence. Nohrstedt and Ottosen (2002) note:\n\"if traditional media themselves are unable to transmit alternative perspectives and voice the danger is that those […] that feel marginalised will turn to terror in order to make a difference in the media agenda\".\n\nThe most visible actions of a group, of which one is not a member, are often considered representative of that group’s behaviour (an effect called the “availability heuristic”). Therefore war journalism's over-selection of violent, as opposed to non-violent, responses to conflict may actually foster a misperception of excessive threat between parties. This is then generally exaggerated by other inter-group social-cognitive biases within war journalism. These include biases towards: seeing an outgroup as more homogeneous (with less internal variety) than it really is, ignoring the variety of attitudes towards the conflict; seeing ambiguous situations, or negative group behavior, as playing out internal, and stable, group \"characteristics\" rather than external, and variable, \"circumstances\", favourable ingroup/outgroup comparison to increase collective self esteem; and members of groups who perceive themselves to be under threat to be more pressured internally to conform with and reinforce dominant group norms; premature and immediate resistance to ideas on positive responses to violence offered by members of outgroups.\n\nIndeed Dr. Louis Kriesberg, a sociologist at Syracuse University, and expert on conflict resolution points out that: \"conventional thinking among partisans in a fight generally attributes destructive persistence in a conflict to the enemy's character, asserting that the enemy is aggressive by nature, has evil leaders, or adheres to a hostile ideology\". And Professor of World Religions, Diplomacy and Conflict Resolution, Marc Gopin, agrees with the importance of psychological factors in escalating conflict: \"being hated normally generates deep injury and corresponding anger in most recipients is what I call a \"conflict dance\" of action/reaction\".\n\nA \"peace journalism\" perspective also highlights another effect of typical conflict journalism on the groups engaged in a conflict: \"war journalism's\" common focus on the human drama and tragedy of violence. Hamber and Lewis (1997) note war journalism \"often involves painting doomsday scenarios of victims who are irreparably damaged and for whom there appears to be no solution and no future\". This creates an increased impediment for the victims of unreported crimes. And the positive experiences of those who have embarked upon a process of recovery is often ignored in war journalism. For example in Israel/Palestine, victims of suicide bombing, house demolition, land and house theft, are often portrayed as defenceless, disempowered victims with no prospect of healing or positive response to their predicament.\n\nEffective non-violent bridge building between communities such as the Hand in Hand Arab/Jewish school network in Israel, are routinely ignored in \"war journalism\" coverage. Non-violent initiatives illustrate what can be possible through peaceful responses to conflict but this information is artificially \"filtered out\" through the coverage biases of \"war journalism\". Parties are therefore presented with a biassed picture of the entire conflict, favouring violent responses to the conflict. Parties are led to believe that that violence is the only way their needs can be met, thereby reinforcing and escalating cycles of dangerous retaliation between groups. \"Peace journalism\" would also charge that this pattern of conventional conflict reporting submerges the emotional cost of violent conflict and therefore makes the psychological aspects of cycles of revenge subtle, and so more difficult to prevent.\n\nAll of this missed information could represent a crucial movement away from violence, as the only option for threatened groups towards peace. But only if they are not hidden by journalistic assumptions that they are irrelevant, and should not be reported. This is of special concern, given that the collective trauma suffered by a population, and the fear that this generates, can lead to a reduced capacity for decision making and action.\n\nIn response to war journalism’s value bias in favour of violence, peace journalism promises two key benefits: for those concerned with objectivity in journalism, it aims to avoid and counteract the persistent bias of valuing violence and violent parties. Secondly, as all journalism must in some way appeal to the values of their audiences, for those who value the promotion of peace and social justice over violence, it provides a practical methodology.\n\nThe 'fixation of meaning' in war journalism is often hidden by the “scattered opposition facts” that often occur in its coverage. However these do not actually allow for “challenging a dominant frame” of pro-violence: 'Framing' researcher Entman recommends:\n\"If educated to understand the difference between including scattered oppositional facts, and challenging a dominant frame, journalists might be better equipped to construct news that makes equally salient—equally accessible to the average, inattentive, and marginally informed audience—two or more interpretations of problems.\"\n\nHence, \"peace journalism\" is anchored in Conflict Analysis and Peace Research “to map out solid ground beneath our feet; to declare, in advance, that we intend to use it, to assign meanings and draw distinctions.” Decisions, on which of the almost infinite stories and facts to report, can be made openly and systematically. Lynch (2008) shows how these two disciplines are important anchors for \"conflict journalism\" in that they employ the academic rigor of the social sciences including: \"openness about – and prepared to justify – starting assumptions for both observation and interpretation; and peer review. Built into social science, moreover, is an allowance for the participant-observer effect – as soon as you start to observe something, you cannot avoid changing it.\"\n\nAs such \"peace journalism\" considers the effect it has on audiences and parties with regard to it own “objectivity”. Lynch and Galtung (2010) elaborate on how this operates in \"conflict journalism\": \"'It is an important distinction in this context because journalism itself may be part of the extended pattern of conflictual relationships, in which parties and their shared relations find themselves embedded – if only by bringing an audience to the ringside. Tillett comments: 'In some situations, individuals (or groups) will ‘fight to the death’ (even when obviously losing all that they claim to be seeking) to avoid being seen to ‘back down’ or ‘lose face' ' (1999, p. 29). In a conflict, he continues, \"the presence of an audience generally makes it more likely that the protagonists will want to be seen to win, and that they will be less prepared to resolve than to fight'. Schattschneider goes as far as to argue that spectators are 'an integral part of the situation for, as likely as not, the audience determines the outcome of the fight'(1960, p.2).\"\n\nConflict Analysis also provides guidance on mapping the hopes, needs, and fears of all parties to a conflict, including outwardly “impartial” third parties; and acknowledges the potential role of creativity, rather than assuming as \"war journalism\" does, that the positions of elites, power gradients and the struggle for power are the most important determinants of a conflict.\n\nThese can then be assessed empirically in the conflict, and its potential resolution, rather than being ignored from the outset by journalists, as often is the case in \"war journalism\". Therefore the importance in \"peace journalism\" of being willing to consider conflict as “open in space and time, with causes and exits anywhere”. Lynch and Galtung (2010) present an important example of this in the case of North and South Korea, indicating that journalists should not ignore the grassroots people that endure this conflict, and that comparisons and input from the reunified Germany may be helpful, as could consideration and dialogue with East Asia. The aim here is not to impose definite “answers”. Conflict Analysis and Peace Research often elicit useful perspectives from those involved in the conflict. Empirical questions can then be put forward, and tested by investigative journalism.\n\nThese processes demonstrate that conflict is not static and intractable. These insights challenge the psychological tendencies of \"war journalism\" noted above to present negative outgroup behaviour as the result of stable group characteristics. Indeed the non-linear cycle of violence outlined by Elworthy and Rogers (2002), proposes that the key stage to prevent a cycle of revenge, is before the anger becomes bitterness. And peace journalism can allow for the consideration that “bitterness can be thought of as anger + memory[…]storing away trauma in a ‘trauma bank’ and, eventually, withdrawing it as ‘glory’ through further violence”.\n\nThrough reporting, which does not routinely ignore causes and non-linear cycles of violence, \"peace journalism\" can help expand the cognitive and emotional space for peace initiatives that contribute peacebuilding.\n\nThe Feedback Loop of cause and effect in the media could then support the creation and continuation of peaceful process-structures . This would involve demonstrating a pattern of coverage that leads present and potential peace actors to predict that their efforts will be reported by journalists to “create opportunities for society at large to consider and value non-violent responses to conflict”. This in turn could reduce negative inter-group social-psychological tendencies. This may be particularly important for projects such as the examples in Israel/Palestine of the 'Hand in Hand' network of schools, 'Peace Now', 'Breaking the Silence', 'Physicians for Human Rights', 'Machsom Watch' and 'Checkpoint Watch', which as mainly grassroots initiatives, are generally more fragile than mid level or upper level peace activities.\n\nAs a pedagogical practice, peace journalism training often uses pairs of \"war journalism\" and \"peace journalism\" reports to illustrate how the same story can be reported in either style, and that there is the potential to produce peace journalism within the time and travel constraints of mainstream journalism.\n\nFor a peace journalism/war journalism pair on conflict in the Philippines see Peace Journalism in the Philippines. The transcripts of this report pair, along with an outline of a course in peace journalism can be viewed at A course in peace journalism.\n\nFor a pair of reports covering Israel/Palestine plus a link to practical tips for avoiding journalism that is biased towards violence and violent actors, see The Middle East—War Journalism and Peace Journalism The documentary News from the Holy Land also contains another pair of reports on the Israel/Palestine conflict.\n\nThe free Reporting the World publication contains pairs of peace journalism/war journalism news reports on Macedonia, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Iraq,and Indonesia.\n\nThe Cairo based Center for Intercultural Dialogue and Translation (CIDT) seeks to build\nbridges of understanding between the Arab and Western world through analysis of the\nnews from these regions. To Be an Effective Advocate for Peace, Media Distortions Must Be Addressed analyses situations where conflict reporting has contributed to the actual worsening of conflict.\n\nAn example from the Hindustan Times, showing how peace journalism can also operate through awards and commendations publicising and supporting the work of non-violence and cooperative conflict resolution: Afghan, Palestinian win UN award in honour of Gandhi.\n\n\"Peace journalism\" can also take the form of the public dissemination of research on the successful conditions for non-violent conflict resolution and negotiation such as: Unequal Partners Can't Negotiate by Paul Duffill, writing for New Matilda.\n\nFor an example in Australia see this report on the protests of the 2009 US and Australian military exercises, Talisman Sabre.\n\nTED talk by Julia Bacha on the danger of news about conflict only covering violent actors, excluding non-violent programmes Julia Bacha: Pay attention to nonviolence.\n\nBudrus documentary film, telling the true story of the successful non-violent struggle of the people of the village Bubrus in the West Bank of Palestine.\n\nArab revolutions and the power of nonviolent action by Stephen Zunes, writing for the National Catholic Reporter.\n\nAnne Applebaum argues in this piece for the Washington Post that though it is tempting to lump all the recent revolutions in the Middle East and North Africa into a single “Arab revolution,” or \"Arab Spring\" the differences between them may turn out to be more important than their similarities: In the Arab world, it's 1848 - not 1989.\n\nThis report from Michelle Shephard Somalia’s Al Qaeda: A chance for Shabab to negotiate? is an example of a partial PJ piece, where some elements of PJ are present. The piece does not assume there are only two parties, and doesn't assume parties' goals exactly match reported positions, and explores contradictory goals within a single official party. It also reports on peaceful responses to conflict. This report however is generally closed in space and time: with little exploration of the reasons behind the conflict between waring groups (including considering the conduct of the weak national government), or whether parties other than Al Queda/Al Shabab have used violence, and assumes that causes and sources of solutions are restricted to within Somalia itself. The report also does not explore non-elite efforts at peace, even though Somalis rally against al-Qaeda allies suggests that there is local support for peace efforts.\n\nThe feedback loop of cause and effect is a useful reference point here for conceptualising the various “entry points” for peace journalism in the wider phenomenology of news. \"Peace journalism\" has been applied in training and dialogue with journalists in a variety of settings. However peace journalism has also been applied in a number of other sectors.\n\nThese interventions are extremely varied and, in addition to the examples noted above, include international NGO work with local partners and networks in areas of conflict, the promotion of communication rights, participatory processes, community-based communication approaches for development, and social change and peacebuilding (for example see Current Projects-Communication for Social Change & World Association for Christian Communication programmes and further reading sections below) and work with organisations who may themselves become sources for peace journalism. Government and inter-governmental approaches have also facilitated \"peace journalism\" in preventing media manipulation and promoting people centred media in post-conflict societies and through the United Nations. Likewise upper level editors and media organisation managers have participated in peace journalism workshops and seminars.\n\nPeace journalism has aroused a number of debates and criticisms from scholars and journalists.\n\nSome opponents characterise \"peace journalism\" as \"activist\" new writing that, while being socially engaged to promote peace, is unlike mainstream objective, or balanced, news coverage that seeks to remain impartial or above the fray.\n\nThis raises the important question: how objective and impartial is peace journalism? From a peace journalism perspective the claim “we just report the facts” must include the facts of how and according to what principals these “facts” came to meet the reporter, and how the finished coverage came to meet the facts. The Press Institute of India’s conflict reporting guidelines point out: \"Factual accuracy in a single story is no substitute for the total truth. A single story, which is factually accurate can nonetheless be misleading\".\n\nAs such \"peace journalism\" is generally more objective, with its inclusion of implications for international law, positive developments in both elite peacemaking and capacity building, and non-elite perspectives and peacebuilding initiatives. This objectivity, unconstrained by Objectivity Conventions, highlights the truth-orientation of peace journalism: to “expose untruths on all sides”.\n\nIn doing so \"peace journalism\" aims to de-naturalise meaning by highlighting the creation of \"war journalism\" dominated meaning in conflict. Indeed Hall (1997) recommends that the unfixing of meaning: “is often a struggle to increase the diversity of things which subjects can be of the possibility of identities which people have not seen represented before[…]you have to intervene in exactly that powerful exchange between image and its psychic meaning[…]with which we invest images [and] expose and deconstruct the work of representation which the stereotype is doing”.\n\nAnd many international negotiation experts and peace practitioners note the importance of non-violent confrontation and the equalisation of power, before effective negotiation and dialogue between parties can take place. Through reporting on grassroots and local voices for peace, the power of these voices is increased, as they become \"reality checkers\" for often contradictory statements from elite representatives involved in violence. Through this non-violent “ideational confrontation”, audiences and parties to conflict may be more able to negotiate their own meaning, outside of fixed elite narratives. Thus “mounting anomalies may expose contradictions, and herald a paradigm shift” as local pro-peace perspectives previously consigned to a zone of “deviance” become “legitimate controversy”.\n\nFor example, prior to the presidential election of 2009 in Afghanistan, the counter-insurgency approach, advocated by US commander General McCrystal, contained elements of relationship building to a degree that is unusual among military approaches in Afghanistan. In the lead up to the Presidential election in Afghanistan in mid 2009, an unusual example of this relationship-sensitive approach to counter-insurgency was applied by US troops in the Nawa district, of Helmand province. However, the overwhelming majority of attention that Nawa district received in 2009, the year that this new strategy was first applied, was on reports of \"violence\" there, principally in early-to-mid July, during intensified military operations. For example in 2009, seven out of ten articles in the 'Washington Post online', tagged under the key word “Nawa”, focussed almost exclusively on violence and US combat operations in the region, with similar ratios appearing in online coverage from the Guardian, the Independent, and the New York Times. In fact, relationship building has succeeded, in contrast to violent methods, in winning “hearts and minds” in Nawa, Afghanistan, but also on a larger scale in Iraq. The US military’s promotion of these methods as successful may of course be a less than “objective” evaluation. However the military’s promotion of relationship building as a legitimate tactic to attempt in addressing violence does contribute to the normative strength of non-violence responses to conflict. In acknowledging the importance of (at least being seen to) build cooperative relationships with local populations (over simply violently suppressing disagreement to military policy) the legitimacy of these non-violent responses to violence conflict is reinforced. And indeed researchers also note the importance of relationship building for 'vertical and horizontal integration' in peacebuilding to support the sustainability of institutional reform and in promoting 'peace with justice' and respect for human rights.\n\nPeace journalism aims to retain the role of \"observer\" in reporting conflict, rather than functioning like \"war journalism\", which intervenes in conflict to increase the influence of violent actors and violent actions. Peace journalism, by presenting “anomalous” local perspectives which contradict violence-exacerbating war journalism, may help to expose these violent group’s attempts to fix and naturalise meaning and to take advantage of this meaning to promote their violence. \nIndeed, exploration of new types of relationships between Afghan locals and the international community, contradicts assertions made at the time, with the support of war journalism, by insurgents and the US government, that the negative effects of foreign occupation could only be ended with their violent expulsion, or that 40,000 more combat troops were the most critical component for sustainable peace in Afghanistan.\n\nThis criticism can be represented by neo-conservative proponent Richard Perle, that one must “decontextualise terror[…]any attempt to discuss the roots of terrorism is an attempt to justify it. It simply needs to be fought and destroyed”. While this may be a common response to journalism which advocates context, it is also an example of many of the social-cognitive inter-group biases noted above, and exemplifies what social psychologist Phillip Zimbardo (of the Stanford Prison Experiments) calls a \"Fundamental Attribution Error\": “the tendency to explain observed behaviour by reference to dispositions, while ignoring or minimizing the impact of situational variables”.\n\nThe notion of human needs driving violence and being significantly effected by violence (borrowed from Conflict Analysis and Peace Research) and insight into the stratified nature of reality (borrowed from Critical Realism), highlights why an \"explanation\" of violence is not the same thing as a justification for it.\n\nCritical Realism understands reality as existing in a number of levels or strata. Each strata deals with larger and more complex phenomena than that ones below it. These strata might begin from physical mechanisms at the most basic level, followed by chemical mechanisms, then biological, followed by psychological and finally social. Activity at each lower strata contributes to, but can never fully explain, the new mechanisms that develop in higher strata, in a process called “emergence” from the upper strata. For example, competing theories of sub-atomic structure (perhaps at the physical level) influence but cannot fully explain the outcome of the reaction 2Na+2HCl = 2NaCl + H2 (at the chemical level). Likewise the individual psychologies of a landlord and tenant cannot fully explain their relationship in the social strata, which is also influenced by other things that operate at the social stratum, including laws and culture.\n\nStructural and cultural explanations for violence generally deal with the social strata: that is relationships between people and groups. An explanation of this violence is not the same as ignoring the role of individual choice and psychology: the violence that “emerges” at the social level is the result of a complex interaction of influences from lower strata (individual choices and psychology) and structures which exist primarily at the social strata (such as laws and culture). So to give cultural or structural \"explanations\" of violence is not the same as saying that these social influences override the role the individual choice (which is located in a lower stratum and therefore occurs under different conditions).\n\nTake the case where an individual’s anger (brought on from previous trauma) becomes bitterness, which is followed by their own violent acts, following Elworthy and Rogers (2002) cycle of violence noted above. An individual has still made a choice to deprive the victim of their violence of their human needs (probably safety and security) even though their own human needs have also been violated earlier. The point is not that they must be seen as either a innocent victim or an evil perpetrator. The practical point is the prevention of violence, and the healing of all those whose needs have been violated.\n\nThis approach does not assume that the best solution for stopping individual violence necessarily exists at the level where an individual makes a choice to act violently (which happens at the psychological level). In some cases punishment or imprisonment may be necessary. However Conflict Analysis and Peace Research suggest that, given the failure of the psychological, medical and social sciences (including education) to eliminate the persistent rates of psychotic tendencies in human groups (psychologists estimate that on average 3 percent of any population have psychotic tendencies), a more promising approach may to look at what social, economic, cultural conditions and what inter-group relations enable individuals such as Hitler, Osama Bin Laden, Stalin and Pol Pot, to realise their desire for mass violence.\n\nConflict Analysis and Peace Research does not primarily focus on understanding the individual psychology of these individuals (at the psychological stratum), but on how these individuals may be prevented from taking up a position in society where they are able to direct inter-communal violence (at the social stratum).\n\nIndeed in \"peace journalism\" the role of individual agency is given a lot of importance. For example journalists are encouraged, in peace journalism workshops, to work peace journalism into the existing media structures. And peace journalism urges journalists to investigate the possibility that, even in violent situations, there are always voices for peace, and to search these voices out, when reporting what the Objectivity Conventions might ignore from the outset. Likewise the role of individual choice is not ignored in Conflict Analysis and Peace Research, and leading scholar-practitioner, John Paul Lederach notes that:\n“I have not experienced any situation in conflict, no matter how protracted or severe, from Central America to the Philippines to the Horn of Africa, where there have not been people who had a vision for peace, emerging often from their own experience of pain. Far too often, however, these same people people are overlooked and disempowered either because they do not represent ‘official’ power, whether on the side of government [or] of the various militias, or because they are written off as biased and too personally affected by the conflict\".\n\nHanitzsche (2007) argues that “the failures of corporate journalism cannot be overcome by an individualistic and voluntaristic conceptualization of news making. To have any impact on the ways news is being made, and the critical discussion thereof, the advocates of peace journalism must address the structural constraints of news production[…]a peaceful culture is the precondition of peace journalism.\"\nStructure is a key concern in peace journalism, along with the influence of structure on \"content pluralism\" in news. And a number of projects that apply \"peace journalism\" (some of which are outlined above) demonstrate that \"peace journalism activism\" is not limited to journalists themselves. Indeed, conflict media content analyses are important educational resources for audiences, NGOs and journalists, to show how deficiencies in content can be used to campaign for more structural pluralism.\n\nThese varied approaches demonstrate that inroads have been, and are still being made, in \"peace journalism activism\" in the areas Hackett (2006) identifies as necessary to address challenges of structure and to \"make peace journalism possible”: reforming journalism from within, and also creating alternative media organisations, and intervening in the broader fields in which journalism find itself.\n\nHanitszche (2007) criticises peace journalism, noting that media users are often “fragmented and active audiences instead of a passive mass[…]leading to a selective use of supplied products”. Likewise Devereux (2003) notes that media audiences “may have different expectations of media genres” and Turnbull (2002) argues that in media research a serious problem is just to limit and define audiences and therefore relevant media practices. Indeed Hall (1997) notes that the meaning of media messages changes “as you move from one person to another, one group to another, one part of society to another.” And Lynch (2008) points out, drawing from Hall (1980) that “the meanings of media messages are made, at least partly, at the point of reception, in a process influenced chiefly by the socio-economic position of the reader or viewer.” As such Hall (1980) notes that in a negotiated or oppositional manner, \"meaning\" often:\n\"contains a mixture of adaptive and oppositional elements: it acknowledges the legitimacy of the hegemonic definitions to make the grand significations (abstract), while, at a more restricted, situational (situated) level, it makes its own ground rules - it operates with exceptions to the rule. It accords the privileged position to the dominant definitions of events while reserving the right to make a more negotiated application to 'local conditions'\".And indeed for many peace journalists it is the visibility of 'local conditions' that allows for oppositional and negotiated meaning. Lynch (2008)argues that “for audiences to produce oppositional or negotiated readings of media messages assumes they have enough directly relevant personal and social experience against which to measure them”, This is often not the case with international conflict. Indeed Hall’s(1980) own example of the negotiation of meaning is the case of an industrial factory worker, willing to challenge official justifications in the media for an Industrial Relations Bill limiting his or her right to strike.\n\n\"Peace journalism\" analysis shows that the facts absent in audiences’ understanding of conflict, can closely mirror those neglected in \"war journalism\". A notable example is Philo and colleagues’ research into media coverage of the Israel/Palestine conflict in the UK media. With mainstream media neglecting the Palestinian narrative that Palestinian refugees lost their land and homes when Israel was established, audiences exhibited consistent ignorance about the basic facts of the conflict (for example where the bulk of refugees came from) and tended to perceive Palestinians as “starting the violence” and therefore Israeli authorities as forced to “respond” violently to prevent or contain this action, which has no possible rationale and therefore no potential non-violent resolution. Indeed five years earlier, when reporting results of the study, Philo (2004) noted that: \"This pattern of reporting clearly influenced how some viewers understood the conflict[…]The gaps in public knowledge closely parallel those in the news. The Palestinian perspective, that they have lost their land and are living under occupation, was effectively absent. It is perhaps not surprising that some viewers believed that they were simply being aggressive and trying to take land from the Israelis\". This omission of the Palestinian perspective was so serious that Helen Boaden, Head of News at the BBC, concluded in an internal email: “we fail to give enough context and history to this highly charged story and that we neglect the Palestinian narrative[…]In our response, we’ve tried to come up with practical ways to remedy our weaknesses”. The Israeli–Palestinian conflict has also been the focus of research by Yifat Mor and colleagues, who examined how social media (namely Facebook) can be a tool to promote dialogue between both parties.\n\nThis is an important illustration of the consistent effect of war journalism across general audiences: “the pattern of misunderstanding almost exactly matching[…]missing elements from the story habitually presented in the mainstream media”. General media audiences as a group are conceptualised within the Feedback Loop of cause and effect.\n\nTwo peace practitioner scholars, John Paul Lederach and Johan Galtung present two quite different models for conflict resolution and peace building. Lederach (1995) presents an “Elictive Model” which is aims “primarily at discovery, creation, and solidification of models that emerge from the resources present in a particular setting and respond to needs in that context” and to not impose third party knowledge from trainer to participant. This approach, was applied in a dialogue in 2003 entitled “Reporting the[sic?] Iraq: what went right? What went wrong?”. Included were Heads of News from the BBC and CNN, the editor of the Guardian, and several senior reporters who had also been reporting the war from Iraq. Drawing on “the resources in the room” recommendations for the coverage of conflict included: \n\nGaltung’s TRANSCEND approach in contrast, focuses on the role a third party to “unstick” violent conflicts and stimulate creativity. This is done by probing deeply into the nature of parties’ goals, expanding the spectrum of acceptable solutions, and opening up cognitive space for fresh potentialities not conceived of by conflict parties. \"In one-on-one conversation-style dialogues, the task is to stimulate creativity, develop new perspectives, and make the conflict parties 'ready for the table'\".\n\nLynch (2008) recounts a notable example of this approach during a \"peace journalism\" forum of Middle Eastern journalists, in Amman, in 1999. Discussions often devolved into national groups blaming the journalists of the other countries for not confronting their governments’ lack of movement towards peace. Galtung himself challenged the participants to: “imagine a future Middle East they wanted to see, and start to think aloud, in cross-national groups, about how they might play a part in bringing it about”.\n\nA Galtungian perspective, as a foundation for much of \"peace journalism\", insists that “the journalist focus on root causes of conflict such as poverty or prior abuse, and not merely focus on events associated with violent political encounters”. Through this approach peace journalism could act to “disembed” seemingly immutable official positions from the greater context of a conflict by exploring background to a conflict, challenging propaganda, and making visible official and local initiatives for peaceful conflict resolution.\n\nThese two approaches differ not only in the \"how\" of Conflict Resolution but the \"who\". Lederach generally outlines a \"middling out\" approach where \"the level with the greatest potential for establishing an infrastructure that can sustain the peacebuilding process over the long term appears to be the middle range\". He argues that grassroots approaches are generally the more fragile since their participants are often concerned with day to day issues of survival. Upper level approaches assume a high level of integration between elites and grassroots: that peace agreements reached there \"are relevant to and capable of practical implementation at the local level\" Galtung on the other hand argues that upper level leaders often actually feel excluded from facilitated peace processes, with the modern focus on grassroots and civil society initiatives. The root of conflict is \"incompatible goals\", pursued by parties which result in violent attitudes and behavior. It follows that \"people are more able to discuss a root problem when they sense a solution somewhere. A glimmer of light at the end of a tunnel makes it considerably more easy[sic] to admit that we are in a tunnel\". In Galtung's work, the most accessible way to influence these goals had been to work with those who officially defined them and led policy—the upper level leaders.\n\nThe importance of accurate and complete Conflict Analysis for a given conflict highlights how these two approaches can be complementary. Practical Conflict Analysis is often aimed at identifying the easiest \"peace levers\" to pull, within a conflict to \"unstick\" violent inter-group relations. This contrasts with intervening in a conflict with pre-set ideas of how a resolution will be found, and with which specific level or group to begin working.\n\nTherefore Conflict Analysis may indicate which \"entry points\" offer the most promising chance to transform the relations between parties. And from this it will follow which approach, or combination of approaches, are likely to work from that entry point (whether it be at the grassroots, mid level or upper level or a combination). This integrative approach is summed up by peace practitioner and researcher Wendy Lambourne: \"to rely on only one theoretical approach in peace practice risks being culturally blind\".\n\nSometimes also called conflict solution journalism, conflict sensitive journalism, and constructive conflict coverage. A similar approach is also found in preventive journalism, which extends the principles to social, economic, environmental or institutional problems. Peace journalism is one of several approaches and movements in journalism history, including advocacy journalism, development communication journalism, the new journalism, and public or civic journalism, which reject the universal or hegemonic claims to neutrality of professional journalism in the developed West.\n\n"}
{"id": "8535048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8535048", "title": "Police memorabilia collecting", "text": "Police memorabilia collecting\n\nPolice memorabilia collecting is a hobby involving the collection and trading of law enforcement-related patches or badges, and other memorabilia including bobby helmets, training manuals, police medals, and historic artifacts such as turn-of-the-century screw-based handcuffs and police-box globes.\n\nIn the United States, many laws have been enacted which control possession of law enforcement insignia for security purposes, and this has impacted civilian collecting because they do not want the patches to be given to anyone other than law enforcement officers. In addition to this, patch reproductions have also become a problem amongst collectors, and most serious historians regard the reproductions as having no value. Various organizations, such as the California Law Enforcement Historical Society, sponsor annual events which spotlight the historical significance of preserving accurate information for future generations. West Virginia Law prohibits trading patches, yet North Carolina law prohibits departments selling patches.\n\nThough many do not trade or give away patches, many agencies nationwide sell their patches, for around $5, some being for a new police cruiser, charity, or for their explorers program.\n\nPolice memorabilia is also exchanged between police forces themselves. The exchange of patches has begun to be seen as a sign of respect and cooperation between agencies since patches came into more common use in the 1920s for agency identity. With the development of more modern communication between various law enforcement agencies, the trading of insignia has become widespread. One particular example can be seen at the New York Police Department's Museum in New York City, where hundreds of police badges and patches are on display, including those from other American forces, and all constabularies of the United Kingdom, as well as forces from South East Asia and Australia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25942576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25942576", "title": "President's Peace Commission", "text": "President's Peace Commission\n\nThe President's Peace Commission is a body composed of invited faculty, staff and students of St. Mary's University in San Antonio, Texas. Each year the Commission chooses a significant theme bearing on the related subjects of peace and justice. Always relevant to the United States, this theme can involve international considerations. In the fall, two days are designated for discussions of the theme by invited speakers and panelists. In the spring, a program is produced which features a concert and the bestowal of the Art of Peace award upon a chosen individual.\n\nIn 1984 the Faculty Senate of St. Mary's University proposed establishment of a commission by the university president to further peace education. Initially this need focused on East-West tensions, especially the threat of nuclear war. Two years later the first program was held. More than 250 videos documenting the President's Peace Commission sessions can be viewed at the Louis J. Blume Library on the St. Mary's campus. Thousands attend the Commission events each year.\n\nThe President's Peace Commission fosters an ethical commitment to participate in the establishment of world peace and social justice. The Commission encourages respect for human rights and dignity of all people. The Commission annually hosts symposia that offer opportunities for students, faculty, and staff to grow in their active pursuit of peace and justice. Through the symposia and other activities, the Commission seeks to build within the St. Mary's University community a greater awareness of the Roman Catholic and Marianist perspectives on peace and justice. The President's Peace Commission reflects the University community through student, staff, and faculty representatives appointed by the University President.\n\nThe Art of Peace award has been granted annually since 1999. Normally the university president bestows the award in person at the spring program. The chosen artist must possess a reputation for quality work and be known as a person who attempts to further the cause of peace. Since it is desirable that the artist's work be integrated into the program, it must be performable. The committee assigned to designate the Art of Peace awardee attempts to name an individual associated with St. Mary's University but is not limited to this association.\n\nIn addition, a special award was given to Dr. Amy Freeman Lee at the 2001 spring program.\n\nWebsite of St. Mary's University: http://www.stmarytx.edu/ppc\n"}
{"id": "23566641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23566641", "title": "ProCon.org", "text": "ProCon.org\n\nProCon.org is a non-profit charitable organization headquartered in Santa Monica, California in the United States. It operates the ProCon.org website, an online resource for research on controversial issues. The content of ProCon.org is produced by five staff researchers, and its stated mission is \"Promoting critical thinking, education, and informed citizenship by presenting controversial issues in a straightforward, nonpartisan, primarily pro-con format.\"\n\nProCon.org was formed under section 501(c)(3) of the US Internal Revenue Code as a public charity in Santa Monica on July 12, 2004 by Steven C. Markoff, a Los Angeles businessman, who is also the co-chairman of A-Mark Entertainment, a film production company.\n\nThe organization's first managing editor, Kamy Akhavan, was hired on December 12, 2004. ProCon.org's first appearance in the media was on June 6, 2005, when its material on medicinal marijuana was referenced by the BBC. Akhavan was promoted from Managing Editor to President in 2010. The organization's board of directors consists of Markoff, his wife Jadwiga S.Z.-Markoff, John Kurtz, Stanley F. Shimohara and Bruce McNall.\n\nIn addition, as of November 2, 2009, these materials were regularly being used by schools in all 50 states. Twelve international governments, 27 state governments, and many federal agencies have referenced ProCon.org including the US Dept. of Education, US Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), Office of National Drug Control Policy, and the Congressional Research Service. In 2008, the Library of Congress archived three of ProCon.org's webpages as \"materials of historical importance to the Congress and to the American people.\" Its materials on medical marijuana have been used by such governmental entities as the Office of National Drug Control Policy and the Congressional Research Service.\n\nOn February 2, 2009, ProCon.org received the \"Best Non-Profit to Work For\" award from opportunityknocks.org.\n\nA division of the American Library Association voted ProCon.org as one of the \"Top 25 Free Reference Websites of 2011\" on June 17, 2011. (Other resources included on this list are WikiLeaks and Google Translate.) As a result of winning this award, the organization was honored by Congressman Rob Andrews (D-NJ) in the U.S. House of Representatives.\n\nAs of November 2013, the site covered 49 topics, including such historically controversial issues as prostitution, illegal immigration, sports and drugs, insider trading, abortion, the death penalty, euthanasia, drinking age, gay marriage, voting machines, presidential elections, the Iraq War, the ACLU, medical marijuana, the Pledge of Allegiance, video game violence, and the origins of sexual orientation. More recent topics include the 2012 presidential election, college education, Obamacare, standardized tests, teacher tenure, vegetarianism, animal testing, felony disenfranchisement, the gold standard, and man-made climate change.\n\nEach issue site contains collections of questions about the issue. After an introductory overview, the topic is then broken into subcategories and sub questions which are organized into \"pro\" and \"con\" columns. The columns list the quoted arguments of different experts on that particular subject. For example, the drug use in sports section includes responses from Lance Armstrong, Gene Upshaw, and various scientists and specialists. ProCon.org staffers assess each source, assigning a self-defined \"Theoretical Expertise\" ranking system to rank expert responses on a scale of one star (for lowest expertise) to five stars (for highest expertise).\n\nProCon.org users are encouraged by the organization to volunteer, donate, and propose new questions and topics. An approval process exists in which the topic, core question, and 1-minute overview must be approved by both the Chairman and Managing Editor.\n\nIn addition to its collection of pro-con questions, ProCon.org develops proprietary research projects containing information on select subjects. In May 2008, ProCon.org published its \"Fart Chart,\" which provided details on the dairy industry's greenhouse gas emissions from ruminant animals.\n\nIn July 2009, ProCon.org's chart \"Deaths from Marijuana v. 17 FDA-Approved Drugs\" was referenced in a CBS News article about anti-drug campaigns. In October 2009, ProCon.org released a resource detailing the top ten richest US Senators' top stock trades in 2007 and the potential conflicts of interest that might arise from these trades.\n\nThe organization's materials have been referenced over 950 times by publications and media outlets, including \"TIME\", the \"Los Angeles Times\", the \"Merced Sun-Star\", ABC News, the \"Daily World\", \"Courrier International\", \"The New York Times\", Press TV, \"The Washington Post\", \"Education Week\", and the \"Seattle Post-Intelligencer\". Akhavan has been interviewed by Pete the Planner, Minyanville, On Board, Fox Business, ABC News, and Voice of America.\n\nAs of 2013, 241 books had referenced or mentioned ProCon.org in some way.\n\nPaul Krugman, a Nobel Prize–winning economist and op-ed columnist, used ProCon.org in his breakdown of the U.S. Affordable Care Act in 2011.\n\nIn 2010, the Washington State Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction listed the site as a recommended resource for social studies. The website has also been listed as a resource by the Utah State Office of Education and Michigan Department of Education. ProCon.org has been endorsed by the California State Superintendent of Public Instruction, and the CA Department of Education.\n\nIn his 2011 book, Michael J. Schmoker stated that ProCon.org is a useful website for science teachers, especially when teaching such subjects as alternative energy versus fossil fuels, cell phones and nuclear power.\n\nProCon.org's materials on medical marijuana have been used as a resource by 12 governmental entities, including the Congressional Research Service, the State of Michigan, the Office of National Drug Control Policy, the Hawaii Department of Public Safety, the New Jersey Department of Health and Senior Services, the Superior Court of the State of California, and the Connecticut Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services. These materials have been used in both pro- and anti-marijuana contexts.\n\n"}
{"id": "24677050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24677050", "title": "Retaliatory eviction", "text": "Retaliatory eviction\n\nIn American landlord–tenant law, a retaliatory eviction is a substantive defense and affirmative cause of action that can be used by a tenant against a landlord. If a tenant reports sanitary violations or violations of minimum housing standards, the landlord cannot evict the tenant in retaliation for reporting the poor housing conditions.\n\nRetaliatory eviction first appeared as a tenant's defense against eviction in \"Edwards v. Habib\" (1968), where a tenant was evicted after reporting sanitary code violations. The D.C. Circuit recognized that the eviction was unjustified because it was in retaliation for the reporting of violations.\n\nThe defense of retaliatory eviction was first recognized in the D.C. Circuit case Edwards v. Habib.\nThe case \"Imperial Colliery Co. v. Fout\", the West Virginia Supreme Court reaffirmed that retaliatory eviction was a valid defense against eviction, but added the condition that the retaliation must be against a tenant's exercise of a right incidental to their tenancy. Therefore, a defense of retaliatory eviction did not exist for a tenant evicted after participating in a labor strike.\n\n1942.5 is the California Civil Code that establishes a renters rights and defines a Retaliatory Eviction in the state of California.\n\nRetaliatory eviction was first recognized as a cause of action in the California case \"Aweeka v. Bonds\". The case recognized the inequity of forcing the tenant to wait until they were confronted with an unlawful detainer action to bring up retaliatory eviction as a defense.\n"}
{"id": "7090620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7090620", "title": "Romanian Border Police", "text": "Romanian Border Police\n\nThe Romanian Border Police () is the structure of the Romanian Ministry of Administration and Interior responsible for the border security and passport control at border crossing points, airports and ports.\n\nThe Border Police uses the same ranking system as the Romanian Police, with different colors. (\"see Romanian Police\")\n\nBefore 2002, the Border Police had military status and a military ranking system, within the Ministry of Administration and Interior (\"see Romanian Armed Forces ranks and insignia\"). In June 2002 it became a civilian police force, together with the National Police (the first police service in Eastern Europe to do so) and its personnel was structured into two \"corps\":\n\n\n\n\n\nAlthough the former Interior Minister Cristian David declared that the Border Police would be gradually integrated into the National Police until 2010 or 2011, when Romania was expected to join the Schengen Area, the Border Police keeps its current status and remains the sole agency tasked with border security and passport control.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51015112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51015112", "title": "Scientific dissent", "text": "Scientific dissent\n\nScientific dissent is dissent from scientific consensus. Disagreements can be useful for finding problems in underlying assumptions, methodologies, and reasoning, as well as for generating and testing new ways of tackling the unknown. In modern times, with the increased role of science on the society and the politicization of science, a new aspect gained prominence: effects of scientific dissent on public policies.\n\nScientific dissent is distinct from denialism, which is a deliberate rejection of scientific consensus usually for commercial or ideological reasons.\n\nMiriam Solomon in her book \"Social Empiricism\" argues that scientific dissent is the normal state of scientific inquiry, rather than a conflict situation that needs resolution. She argues that disagreements of individual scientists about the proper direction of research are not cause for concern, because scientific rationality must be assessed at the level of the scientific community. As long as all theories being pursued yield some unique empirical successes, Solomon argues that their pursuit is worthwhile and even consistent with the common view that science aims at truth. In Solomon's view, competing scientific theories can even be inconsistent with one another while each containing some degree of truth. Empirical evidence may not be sufficient to distinguish between competing theories, and successful theories often have core assumptions that are incorrect.\n\nA number of famous scientists have been sceptical of what were, or came to be, mainstream scientific positions. For example, Ernst Mach famously declared in 1897: \"I don't believe that atoms exist!\" Wilhelm Ostwald expressed a similar scepticism about atoms, but changed his mind in 1908.\n\nIn the early 20th century, peptic ulcers were believed to be caused by stress and dietary factors. The physicians Robin Warren and Barry Marshall showed in 1982 that the bacterium \"Helicobacter pylori\" was responsible, but the medical community was slow to make appropriate changes in ulcer treatment.\n\nScientific debate is a healthy and necessary part of science, but scientific debate may collide with power dynamics within the academic world. Suppression of legitimate scientific debate can be considered as a breach of academic integrity. Examples of suppression include journal editors rejecting a paper for political reasons prior to peer-review, refusing access to data for research which might draw negative conclusions about the safety of some commercial product, and putting pressure on a university to fire a dissenting researcher.\n\nIn modern times proponents of science denialism, pseudoscience, and conspiracy theories often try to disguise their viewpoints as \"scientific dissent\" to take an advantage of the benefit of doubt. Such cases are typically recognized by lack of crucial elements of scientific approach: insufficient evidence base, lack of rigor and control, etc.\n\nLack of discussion of claims coming from fringe science may be presented as suppression by mainstream science. This was described as \"manufacturing dissent\" and discussed in the context of neo-creationism.\n\nDavid Harker in the introduction to his book \"Creating Scientific Controversies\", summarizes the history how tobacco industry worked towards manufacturing a controversy regarding the health effects of tobacco.\n\nIn what is sometimes known as the \"Galileo gambit,\" pseudoscientists will sometimes compare themselves to Galileo, arguing that opposition from established scientists is actually a point in favour of their ideas. Jean Paul Van Bendegem writes that \"No doubt the most famous example of mistaken analogy is the abuse of Galileo Galilei's case resulting in his conviction by the Holy Inquisition. The basic strategy consists of equating Galileo with the poor astrologer or parapsychologist and equating the Inquisition with the scientific establishment.\"\n\nViews which disagree with scientific consensus may have an adverse effect on the perception of science by general public and affect decision making in various policies. When prominently promoted without due proportion, dissenting views can create an impression of uncertainty to laypeople. Common examples of such situation include global warming controversy and issues of public health and genetically modified organisms. Therefore, scientists treat scientific dissent as problematic when it may have a significant impact on public and policy-making, and try to mitigate it.\n\nInmaculada de Melo-Martín and Kristen Intemann criticize three major strategies in battling allegedly dangerous scientific dissent: masking the dissent, silencing the dissent, and discrediting the dissenters. Melo-Martin and Intermann argue that these strategies come from a misdiagnosis: the real problem is not dissent, but public scientific illiteracy. Rather than focusing on dissent, scientists must concentrate on educating the general public, so that people could make educated opinions and recognize false claims and invalid arguments. They further argue that silencing dissent rather than promoting literacy incurs the risk of undermining the public trust in science.\n\nSheila Jasanoff, in the context of climate change, mentions a common argument that public opinion is poorly informed because petroleum industry manufactures uncertainties and the media exaggerate the dissent, but argues that it is insufficient for the understanding of the problem. She writes that studies of scientific controversies show that credibility of science depend not only on strong scientific consensus, but also on the persuasive power of those who speak for science, especially in the situations of controversy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40949244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40949244", "title": "Socialist Unity Network", "text": "Socialist Unity Network\n\nThe Socialist Unity Network was a small network of the far-left in the United Kingdom which was not affiliated with any single political party. It grew out of the Socialist Alliance (SA) in England, and was initiated by several non-aligned members of the SA executive in March 2004.\n\nMembers of the network were supporters of Respect - The Unity Coalition and other left electoral initiatives including the Green Party. The main aspect of the network was its now defunct website, which had regularly updated articles from a wide range of socialist perspectives on issues including the possibilities of creating socialist unity.\n\nThe network was formed in March 2004 by several non-aligned members of the Socialist Alliance in England, and grew to include left-wing activists from a range of political parties and campaigning organisations, and those with no party affiliation. It was centrally involved in the debates around the winding down of the Socialist Alliance and the formation of Respect. It produced its own leaflets on occasions and in the 2005 General Election some members of the network stood as \"Socialist Unity\" candidates, providing a banner under which independent socialists could choose to stand, as part of the Socialist Green Unity Coalition, a coalition with the Socialist Party.\n\nSocialist Unity candidates stood again in the 2006 council elections, gaining over 5% of the vote in Swindon, and over 10% in Hackney. The network also produced a 2005 election guide with \"Red Pepper\" magazine.\n\nLeading members included Jim Jepps (later a Green Party activist), Declan O'Neill, Andy Newman (later a Labour Party member), Matthew Caygill, John Nicholson, Martin Wicks (of Swindon Trades Council), Pete Green, Nick Bird, Salman Shaheen (journalist, and co-editor of Third Estate blog), Reuben Rosenberg (journalist, and co-editor of Third Estate blog) and Tawfiq Chahboune.\n\nThe \"who we are\" section on the socialist unity network webpage stated:\n\nThe Socialist Unity Network originated in the Socialist Alliance. It is not a political group conceived to add to the competition between the many socialist organisations which already exist. It is a network of activists which campaigns for the widest practical collaboration of left groups and movements resisting the attacks of the Blair government.\n\nIn England the left has failed to make the break with the sectarian legacy that has dogged the \"far left\" for so long. Such divisions undermine our ability to build a fightback against the Blair government.\n\nThe Socialist Unity Network therefore believes that, in the interests of building resistance and striving to create the conditions in which a socialist alternative to New Labour can emerge, it is necessary to strive to develop collaborative methods of working as widely as possible. This is similar to the process that led to the formation of the SSP in Scotland, which was the result of a number of years of common work and discussion which enabled previously competing and sometimes hostile organisations to overcome old antagonisms and to develop greater political agreement.\n\n"}
{"id": "48588791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48588791", "title": "The Political Machine 2016", "text": "The Political Machine 2016\n\nThe Political Machine 2016 is a government simulation game from Stardock and the fourth game in the \"Political Machine\" series, in which the player leads a campaign to elect the President of the United States. The player accomplishes this goal by traveling from state to state and engaging in a variety of activities to either raise money or raise poll numbers. An early access version of the game was released on Steam on November 17, 2015, with the full game releasing on February 4, 2016.\n\nThe game received \"average\" reviews according to video game review aggregator Metacritic.\n\n"}
{"id": "2064810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2064810", "title": "Torgny the Lawspeaker", "text": "Torgny the Lawspeaker\n\nTorgny the Lawspeaker (Old Icelandic: \"Þorgnýr lögmaðr\", Swedish: \"Torgny Lagman\") is the name of one of at least three generations of lawspeakers by the name \"Þorgnýr\", who appear in the \"Heimskringla\" by the Icelandic scholar and chieftain Snorri Sturluson, and in the less known \"Styrbjarnar þáttr Svíakappa\" and \"Hróa þáttr heimska\". They were the lawspeakers of Tiundaland, and all lawspeakers in the Swedish kingdom were their subordinates.\n\nThe one who is the most famous is reported by the \"Heimskringla\" to have lived in the time of Olof Skötkonung and Olaf the Holy, and there is an extensive account on him in this source. This Þorgnýr is held to have historic basis, but Snorri's account is doubted by modern Swedish historians, who lack native Swedish documentation on the Tiundaland lawspeakers of this time.\n\nSnorri relates:\n\nThe two kings were at war, and many wise men in both Sweden and Norway tried to reconcile the kings. In 1018, the earl Ragnvald Ulfsson and the Norwegian king's emissaries Björn Stallare and Halte Skeggesson had arrived at the thing of Uppsala to sway the Swedish king to accept peace and as a warrant marry his daughter Ingegerd Olofsdotter to the king of Norway.\n\nThe Swedish king was greatly angered and threatened to banish Ragnvald from his kingdom, but Ragnvald was supported by his foster-father Þorgnýr the Lawspeaker, who was the wisest and most respected man in Sweden.\n\nThese arguments convinced the king to give in and he promised to have peace with the king of Norway and to give him his daughter. However, he later broke his promise.\n\nIn \"Styrbjarnar þáttr Svíakappa\" about Styrbjörn Starke, appears a Þorgnýr the Lawspeaker who is probably the father of the previously mentioned Þorgnýr. This Þorgnýr the Lawspeaker was very old and almost blind and so he could not take part in the battle between Eric the Victorious and Styrbjörn. Still he influenced the course of battle by having cattle and horses driven against the Danish army. These animals were harnessed with spears and spikes and caused many casualties in Styrbjörn's army. This Þorgnýr is also mentioned in \"Hróa þáttr heimska\" as a wise and just old man.\n\n"}
{"id": "5909481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5909481", "title": "Toxic food environment", "text": "Toxic food environment\n\nA food environment is the \"physical presence of food that affects a person’s diet, a person’s proximity to food store locations, the distribution of food stores, food service, and any physical entity by which food may be obtained, or a connected system that allows access to food\". In the United States, the food environment the citizens are encompassed in makes it far too hard to choose healthy foods, and all too easy to choose unhealthy foods. Some call this food environment \"'toxic' because of the way it corrodes healthy lifestyles and promotes obesity\". \n\nThe term toxic food environment was coined by Kelly D. Brownell in his book, \"Food Fight: The Inside Story of the Food Industry\" which describes American culture at the end of the 20th century as one that fosters and promotes obesity and unprecedented food consumption.\n\nBrownell is a Yale professor and director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at Yale.\n\nHe uses the term “toxic” to describe unparalleled exposure to high-calorie, high-fat, heavily marketed, inexpensive, and readily accessible foods. The toxic environment is the result of ubiquity of unhealthy, processed foods, an increasingly sedentary lifestyle in which individuals spend more time watching TV and using computers than they spend exercising, the explosion of fast food restaurants, the enormous growth of portion sizes, the power of food advertising and marketing, and the junk food industry’s takeover of schools by selling unhealthy items in vending machines, cafeterias, and through school fundraisers.\n\nA main contributor to the notion of a toxic food environment is the marketing of it. Finding an advertisement that promotes “toxic” is not a difficult task. The Federal Trade Commission found, in 2008, that the food industry spent almost $10 billion per year on marketing food and beverages. And that $10 million was just the amount for the marketing that appealed to children. Marketing for “toxic” food has infused the consumption of unhealthy, processed food into US culture.\n\nBrownell and many of his colleagues attribute the nation’s obesity epidemic to the toxic environment. In 1995, the Institute of Medicine noted that the human gene pool has not undergone any real change over the past several decades when obesity has been on the rise. Therefore, the root of the obesity crisis must lie in the environment—the social and cultural forces that promote an over-abundance of food and eating, and a deficit of physical activity.\n\nOther factors can affect poor eating habits. Having personal issues that can affect your mood can bring your appetite down and promote a bad diet. An example would be: Depression, anxiety, and family issues. These factors can affect poor eating habits that cause a malnourished lifestyle which leads to a toxic food environment. Other factors may include laziness, and not having an active lifestyle. These factors can lead to obesity and other health risks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "385839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=385839", "title": "Trooping the Colour", "text": "Trooping the Colour\n\nTrooping the Colour is a ceremony performed by regiments of the British and Commonwealth armies. It has been a tradition of British infantry regiments since the 17th century, although the roots go back much earlier. On battlefields, a regiment's colours, or flags, were used as rallying points. Consequently, regiments would have their ensigns slowly march with their colours between the soldiers' ranks to enable soldiers to recognise their regiments' colours.\n\nSince 1748, Trooping the Colour has also marked the official birthday of the British sovereign. It is held in London annually on a Saturday in June on Horse Guards Parade by St. James's Park, and coincides with the publication of the Birthday Honours List. Among the audience are the Royal Family, invited guests, ticket holders and the general public. The ceremony is broadcast live by the BBC within the UK and is also shown in Germany and Belgium, and since 2018, has been streamed online to viewers all over the world, via the \"Time\" magazine YouTube channel and the Facebook page of the British newspaper \"The Telegraph\", with the Associated Press providing live video coverage of the event.\n\nThe Queen travels down the Mall from Buckingham Palace in a royal procession with a sovereign's escort of Household Cavalry (mounted troops or horse guards). After receiving a royal salute, she inspects her troops of the Household Division, both foot guards and horse guards, and the King's Troop, Royal Horse Artillery. Each year, one of the foot-guards regiments is selected to troop its colour through the ranks of guards. Then the entire Household Division assembly conducts a march past the Queen, who receives a salute from the saluting base. Parading with its guns, the King's Troop takes precedence as the mounted troops perform a walk-march and trot-past.\n\nThe music is provided by the massed bands of the foot guards and the mounted Band of the Household Cavalry, together with a Corps of Drums, and occasionally pipers, totalling approximately 400 musicians.\n\nReturning to Buckingham Palace, the Queen watches a further march-past from outside the gates. Following a 41-gun salute by the King's Troop in Green Park, she leads the Royal Family on to the palace balcony for a Royal Air Force flypast.\n\nA regiment's colours embody its spirit and service, as well as its fallen soldiers. The loss of a colour, or the capture of an enemy colour, were respectively considered the greatest shame, or the greatest glory on a battlefield. Consequently, regimental colours are venerated by officers and soldiers of all ranks, second to the sovereign.\n\nOnly battalions of infantry regiments of the line carry colours; the Royal Artillery's colours, for example, are its guns. Rifle regiments did not form a line and thus never carried colours. Their battle honours are carried on their drums. The exception to this is the Honourable Artillery Company, which has both a stand of colours and guns.\n\nTrooping the Colour is an old ceremony whereby a battalion would fall in by companies and the colour-party would \"troop\" or march the colours through the ranks so that every man would see that the colours were intact. This was done before and after every battle. This ceremony has been retained through time and is today largely ceremonial.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Trooping the Colour is also known as the Queen's Birthday Parade. It has marked the official birthday of the sovereign since 1748, and has occurred annually since 1820 (except in bad weather, periods of mourning and other exceptional circumstances). From the reign of King Edward VII, the sovereign has taken the salute in person. It was Edward VII who moved Trooping the Colour to its June date, because of the vagaries of British weather (his actual birthday being in November). From 1979 to 2017 it was always held on the Saturday falling between 11–17 June; however, the date announced for 2018 fell on 9 June.\n\nTrooping the Colour allows the troops of the Household Division to pay a personal tribute to the sovereign with great pomp and pageantry. Crowds lining the route and in St. James's Park listen to music performed by both massed and mounted bands.\n\nThe Queen has attended Trooping the Colour in every year of her reign, except when prevented by a rail strike in 1955. Formerly mounted herself, she commenced riding in a carriage in 1987. On 13 June 1981, she and her mount were startled by an unemployed youth, Marcus Sarjeant, who fired six blank rounds from a starting revolver.\n\nIn her years attending on horseback, Her Majesty, as Colonel-in-Chief, wore a biretta and a Guards Regiment uniform with the medals she was awarded before becoming Queen (Order of the Crown of India; Defence Medal; War Medal 1939–1945; King George V Silver Jubilee Medal; King George VI Coronation Medal; Canadian Forces Decoration) and the riband and star of the Order of the Garter, the Order of the Thistle or a combination of those orders, depending which regiment was trooping its colour. Since 1987, she has not worn uniform, but wears the Brigade of Guards badge, a large brooch representing the different regiments that participate (Grenadier Guards, Coldstream Guards, Welsh Guards, Irish Guards, and Scots Guards).\n\nHer 80th birthday in 2006 was marked by a large flypast of 40 planes led by the Battle of Britain Memorial Flight and culminating with the Red Arrows. It was followed by the first feu de joie (\"fire of joy\") fired in her presence during her reign, a second being fired at her Diamond Jubilee celebrations in 2012. In 2008, a flypast of 55 aircraft commemorated the RAF's 90th anniversary.\n\nThe Unit presenting the Colours usually commences Troop practice in April provided that the company does not have other prior military operations. The entire parade will rehearse in full dress at Horse Guards Parade before the Major General's Review, such rehearsals are referred to as Guard Mount from Horse Guards. The Major General's Review and the Colonel's Review are scheduled on the Saturdays two and one weeks preceding the Queen's Birthday Parade respectively. The salute is taken, respectively, by the Major-General commanding the Household Division and the Colonel of the Regiment which is trooping its colour.\n\nOn the day of Trooping the Colour, the Royal Standard is flown from Buckingham Palace and from Horse Guards Building, while the Union Flag (colloquially known as the Union Jack), is flown from public buildings as well as the flags of the British Commonwealth of Nations, especially in recent years.\n\nParticipants and positioning:\n\n\"Nos 1-6 Guards\" - six companies of Foot Guards, each comprising 3 officers and 71 other ranks - line two sides of the perimeter of Horse Guards Parade in an extended \"L\" shape. This recalls the defensive formation known as the \"hollow square.\"\n\nAll six companies are collectively commanded as \"Guards...\" and individually by company number, e.g., \"No. 3 Guard...\" Up to eight Guards have taken part, the number varying over the years: six in 1939, five in 1954, seven from 1963 to 1967, and then eight until the 1980s.\nThe battalion trooping its colour in any given year is No. 1 Guard. During the parade, they are referred to as 'Escort for the Colour' (and, once they have collected their colour during the ceremony, as 'Escort to the Colour').\n\nAt the outset, the colour is held by the Colour Party - a colour sergeant and two other guardsmen of No. 1 Guards, standing well-spaced on the northern side of Horse Guards Parade. Once obtained by the Regimental Sergeant Major of No. 1 Guard, the colour is borne through the ranks of Nos 2-6 Guards by an Ensign of No. 1 Guard. It is a great honour for a young officer to carry the colour in this ceremony, as historically only the most courageous Ensigns were assigned to carry the regiment's colours in battle. Nowadays the honour is normally given to second lieutenants who excel at drill and ceremonial and who are physically fit.\n\nLining the edge of St. James's Park are the Household Cavalry Mounted Regiment - the Life Guards and the Blues and Royals - as well as the King's Troop, Royal Horse Artillery.\n\nIn the Royal Procession, the Household Cavalry are termed Sovereign's Escort. Two divisions ride ahead of the Queen's carriage and two behind it, and the Life Guards and Blues and Royals alternate these positions each year.\n\nThree mounted officers drawn from No 1 Guard give drill commands during the parade. The most senior is the Field Officer in Brigade Waiting (rank of Lieutenant Colonel), assisted by the Major of the Parade. The Field Officer occupies a central position on the parade ground. The third mounted officer is the Adjutant.\n\nThe Garrison Sergeant Major of London District, who is not mounted, coordinates the whole event on the parade ground and the approach road from The Mall.\n\nWith almost 300 musicians on the field, led by the massed military bands of the Household Division, the music forms an integral part of the day. The massed bands of the Foot Guards number over 200 musicians. Joining them, since 2014, is the Mounted Band of the Household Cavalry, formed by the 2 merged Household Cavalry bands. There is also a Corps of Drums from several of the regiments and, on some occasions, pipe bands of the Scots Guards and Irish Guards.\n\nThe entire parade is best understood as an exercise of several elements carried out in slow and quick march time, with the Trooping the Colour phase forming the centrepiece.\n\n\nThe entire parade is supervised by the Field Officer in Brigade Waiting (sometimes shortened to \"Field Officer\"), with the assistance of the Brigade Major and the Adjutant, all on horseback, and joined by the London District Garrison Sergeant Major, who is unmounted and coordinates the proceedings of the ceremony.\n\nA detail of guardsmen bearing marker flags marches on, to mark the positions of Nos. 1-6 Guards. (These marker flags are the respective company colours from each regiment.)\n\nPreceded by their regimental bands, Nos. 1-6 Guards march into position. No. 1 Guard is \"Escort for the Colour.\"\n\n\nWith the foot guards in their home service order and the mounted band in state dress uniform, the assembled ranks of Household Division make a colourful spectacle.\n\nGuards half-companies line up on the road to Horse Guards Parade to provide security to the Royal Family that will arrive later and to the marching and mounted contingents.\n\nPreceding the sovereign, senior members of the Royal Family, in attendance but not on parade, arrive in barouches to view the ceremony from a central first floor window in the Duke of Wellington's former office in Horse Guards Building. This procession turns at the Guards Memorial, and No. 3 Guard has opened ranks to allow their carriages to pass. \n\nPreceded by the Sovereign's Escort, the Queen (Colonel-in-Chief) journeys from Buckingham Palace down the Mall, in the Glass coach. Directly behind the Queen in the Royal Procession ride the Royal Colonels (the Prince of Wales (Welsh Guards), Duke of Kent (Scots Guards), Princess Royal (Blues and Royals), Duke of York (Grenadier Guards) and the Duke of Cambridge (Irish Guards)) followed by the non-royal Colonels of Regiments (those of the Coldstream Guards and the Life Guards). Other officers of the Household Division and of the Royal Household follow, all mounted, including the Master of the Horse, the Major-General commanding the Household Division with his Chief of staff and Aide-de-camp, Silver Stick-in-Waiting, the regimental Adjutants and a number of the Queen's Equerries.\n\nAs the carriage arrives on Horse Guards Parade, the Royal Standard is prepared to be released and flown from the roof of Horse Guards. As the carriage passes behind the colour to the trooped, the head coachman, whip in hand, renders honours to it. The Queen alights at the Saluting Base to start the ceremonies.\n\nThe Field Officer commences the Parade with the command: \"Guards - Royal Salute - Present Arms!\" and the national anthem (God Save The Queen) is played by the Household Division's Foot Guards Massed Bands, led by the Senior Director of Music of the Household Division. Simultaneously, the Royal Standard is formally released and flies from the Horse Guards flagpole. This tradition was broken in the 2015 parade, as the salute and the playing of the National Anthem happened as the Queen approached the Saluting Base together with the Duke of Edinburgh, while the Royal Standard was released at the same time.\n\nThe Queen re-enters the carriage and is driven before and behind the long line of assembled guards, with the Royal Colonels following. BBC television commentaries every year emphasise the Queen's knowledge of the attributes of her guards, and single out \"steadiness\" as a highly prized quality for a guardsman.\n\nThe accompanying marches always carry a flavour of the regiment whose colour is being trooped, lending the royal inspection a unique atmosphere. For example, if the Welsh Guards are trooping their colour, the music will include their traditional regimental march, \"Men of Harlech\". While the Queen passes the six companies of foot guards on her left, a slow march or air is played. Once the phaeton turns around the rear of No. 6 Guard, the music changes to a quick march. The Queen is conveyed back up the line, passing the Household Cavalry and King's Troop stationed on her right, with the head coachman saluting the Sovereign's Standard of the Household Cavalry and the lead gun of the King's Troop in quick succession with a whip. The inspection completed, the music ceases, and she is conveyed back to the saluting base.\n\nWith the Queen once more seated at the saluting base, the command \"Troop!\" is given by the Field Officer. This is not to be confused with the trooping of the colour itself, which occurs later in the ceremony. Three strikes on a bass drum give the signal for the Massed Bands to start their march.\n\nThe Guards, after standing at attention, change arms. Under the command of the Senior Drum Major, the Massed Bands march and countermarch on Horse Guards Parade in slow and quick time. The slow march music is traditionally the Waltz from \"Les Huguenots\". During the quick march, a lone drummer from the Corps of Drums breaks away from the massed bands, marching to two paces to the right of No. 1 Guard to take his post while the band marches on, stopping just near the colour party.\n\nThe Trooping of the Colour phase of the ceremony is initiated by the lone drummer's eight-bar \"Drummer's Call\", signalling the Captain of No. 1 Guard to cede his command to the Subaltern of No.1 Guard. It slopes arms, while the Field Officer directs the other companies present to change arms and stand at ease. The call having been sounded, the lone drummer returns to the Massed Bands.\n\nAs Escort for the Colour, No. 1 Guard performs the centrepiece of the parade.\n\nAn orderly takes the pace stick from the Regimental Sergeant-Major (RSM), positioned behind the Escort for the Colour, thus freeing the RSM to draw his sword - the only time a British Army infantry warrant officer ever does so on parade. The Subaltern then commands No. 1 Guard to move into close order, and then dresses it. Then, led by the Subaltern with the Ensign following, and with the Regimental Sergeant-Major marching behind the company, the Escort for the Colour quick marches onto the field to \"The British Grenadiers\". (This tune is always used irrespective of which regiment's colour is being trooped, because the right flank of every battalion used to be a grenadier company.) A guardsman behind the colour party marches forward towards the Colour Sergeant of the colour party at the same time during the Escort approaching then hands over the rifle to the Colour Sergeant, salutes the colour and leaves the parade ground. The Escort marks time while the Massed Bands \"clear the line of march\" and move to the front of the Guards and mark time. Fifteen steps away from the Colour Party, the music halts and four paces later, the 'Escort for the Colour' halts in place, and is ordered to open ranks and dressed, followed by the Massed Bands making an about turn.\n\nThe guards are then called to attention and then change and slope arms under the direction of the Field Officer, while the Household Cavalry are also called to attention by the commander of the Sovereign's Escort.\n\nThe RSM marches around to the front of the Escort and, followed by the Ensign, approaches the Colour Party. Having saluted the colour with his sword, the Sergeant-Major takes it from the Colour Sergeant, freeing him to change and then slope arms. The RSM turns, marches to the Ensign, and presents the colour to him. The Ensign salutes the colour with his sword, sheathes the sword without taking his eyes off the colour, and takes possession of it.\n\nHaving obtained their colour, No. 1 Guard (formerly known as \"Escort \"for\" the Colour\") is now termed \"Escort \"to\" the Colour.\" By then, the massed bands, now with the line cleared, face front, with the Corps of Drums, pipe bands and the senior director of music leading.\n\nTo the first six bars of \"God Save the Queen\", the Escort to the Colour presents arms; simultaneously, turning outward at an angle of 45°, the NCOs (non-commissioned officers) at the four corners (or flanks) of the Escort port arms, as symbolic maximum protection for the colour.\n\nThe Escort to the Colour and Colour Party slope arms. The Colour Sergeant marches to the right and to the rear of the Escort. Once the Colour Party, Ensign and Regimental Sergeant-Major have joined the Escort, the RSM repositions himself to the left of and behind the Escort. The Subaltern then orders the Escort to change arms and orders the slow march.\n\nAs the Escort to the Colour slow-marches down the field towards No. 6 Guard to begin their colour trooping, the massed bands perform their unique anti-clockwise \"spinwheel\" manoeuvre. This, a 90° turn in restricted space, is performed while playing the slow march \"Escort to the Colour.\"\n\nPrime responsibility for the celebrated spinwheel, which is largely individual and instinctive, rests with the Garrison Sergeant Major. A 'wheel' is not an easy manoeuvre with even a small body of troops, and with a block of 400 men the normal wheel is impossible. The massed band therefore pivots on its own centre, so that certain outer ranks and files march long distances in a hurry while the centre and inner ranks loiter with extreme intent, or merely mark time. Yet others not only step sideways but backwards as well. This highly complex movement is called a 'spin-wheel', the details of which can be found in no drill book or manual of ceremonial. Its complexity defies description, and if the truth were known, many of the participants know not whither they go or, on arrival, how they got there. The spin-wheel is almost an art form and each performance of it, although similar in essentials, is different in detail. Most of the performers are adjusting their actions to suit the needs of the spin-wheel of the moment, having adjusted their movements quite otherwise on other occasions.\nOnce the Escort reaches the edge of No. 6 Guard, the music stops, and the Field Officer in Brigade Waiting orders the entire parade (except the Escort) to present arms as the trooping proper starts. The music changes to \"The Grenadiers' Slow March.\"\n\nTo the strains of the Grenadiers Slow March, the Escort to the Colour then troops the colour down the long line of Nos 6-2 Guards. The colour itself is borne by the Ensign in front of the line of guards, but the ranks of the Escort interweave with their ranks. For Nos 6-2 Guards, who maintain the 'present arms' position, the long trooping, especially on a hot day, requires stamina. As this is done the Massed Bands move back in slow time to their original places.\n\nEventually the Escort arrives back at its original position as no. 1 Guard - from where it first marched off in quick time. Their Captain, who had temporarily ceded his command to the Subaltern, resumes his command over No. 1 Guard by ordering them to present arms, thus bringing the Escort back in line with Nos 2-6 Guards. The entire parade is now ordered by the Field Officer to slope arms, thus concluding the trooping phase.\n\nThe trooping phase is followed by the march-past in slow and quick time of the foot guards and then the Household Cavalry and King's Troop, also in slow and quick time.\n\nThe Field Officer gives the command, \"Officers, take post.\" Nos 1 to 5 Guard then \"retire\", about-turning and right-forming into review formation. Nos 1 to 5 Guard then about-turn again as the Corps of Drums play. Since No. 6 Guard is already standing at right angles to the other five companies it does not need to execute this movement, but instead it moves close-order position then to the right in threes after Nos 1 to 5 Guards turn back to advance position .\n\nOnce intervals are established, the Field Officer salutes the Queen and informs her that the foot guards are ready to march past, then commands, \"Guards will march past in slow and quick time. Slow march.\" No. 6 Guard will left turn to be advance and then form two ranks on Marching after the parade has started to execute the slow march.\n\nNo. 1 Guard - the Escort - leads the six companies for two circuits of Horse Guards Parade, saluting the Queen as they pass. The corners of the field are negotiated with the complex Left Form manoeuvre. Commands of \"Change direction - left!\" are then followed by the Left Guide (or Right Guide) of each Guard signalling \"Right Sir!\" to the Captain that the company has reached the position, the Captain will immediately orders \"Left...Form!\"\n\nAt the end of both the slow and quick march-past, the Field Officer rides out to salute the Queen with his sword, telling her that her Majesty's Guards have ended their march-past.\n\nNeutral slow marches start and conclude this section. The guards are preceded past the saluting base by the Field Officer and the Major of the Parade, who salute the Queen with their swords and eyes right.\n\nTo the strains of their distinctive regimental slow marches, each of Nos. 1-6 Guards passes before the Queen with their eyes right, their regimental officers saluting with swords. The leading company, No. 1 Guard - the Escort to the Colour - has a particular honour. The Ensign lowers the colour - the 'flourish'. The Queen acknowledges it with a bow of the head, and the Royal Colonels salute the colour. Once past the saluting base, the colour is raised again - the 'recover' - and \"eyes front\" is ordered.\n\nEach company's salute is acknowledged by the Queen, the Duke, and the Royal Colonels.\n\nFor this circuit, the colour is at the rear of the Escort (No. 1 Guard), protected by the Colour Party. Their regimental quick marches are played as each guard passes before the Queen with eyes right. However, this being a quick march, the officers do not salute with swords, but only with the eyes right instead. As with the slow march-past, neutral marches start and conclude this section.\n\nThe massed bands, led by the Corps of Drums and the pipes and drums, march away to allow the mounted bands on to the ground. By then, the foot guards have ended their march, and are now back in place and dressed.\n\nThe now sole Mounted Band of the Household Cavalry in state dress, led by the two drum horses representing the two constituent regiments of the Household Cavalry, and the Director of Music of the Household Cavalry, ride slowly on to the field, traditionally to the tune \"Preobrajensky.\"\n\nIt is the turn of Household Cavalry and King's Troop to complete two circuits of Horse Guards Parade. For the horses, slow and quick time correspond to a walk-march and a sitting-trot, respectively. Since 1997, the mounted contingent is led by the commander of the King's Troop and then by the Sovereign's Escort commander.\n\nIn both turns of the ride past the Foot Guards present arms as per the Field Officer's orders.\n\nSalutes are again given to the Queen, and returned by her and the Royal Colonels to the colours as they pass by.\n\nThe Royal Horse Artillery, marching to the \"Royal Artillery Slow March\" and then the \"March from \"Aida\"\", is first, taking precedence over all other units when on parade with its guns. When the King's Troop passes the saluting base, the Queen acknowledges the leading gun as the colour.\n\nThe Life Guards, in red jackets and white plumes, are next, followed by the Blues and Royals, in blue jackets and red plumes. The sequence of regimental marches is: \"Life Guards' Slow March\", followed by \"Blues and Royals' Slow March\", and then \"The Royals.\"\n\nRiding at the rear of the Household Cavalry are the farriers, one for each regiment, carrying their glinting axes and flanked by a soldier of each regiment. (The Life Guards farrier wears a black plume rather than the usual regimental white.)\n\nThe two Household Cavalry regiments take turns to parade and the job of parading the Queen's Cavalry Standard of either of the two regiments alternates yearly between the Life Guards and the Blues and Royals. As the standard passes by, it is flourished in the presence of the Queen, the Duke and the Royal Colonels and after walking past them is recovered.\n\nA state trumpeter of either of the two Household Cavalry regiments plays \"The Trot\" to signal the beginning of the sitting trot-past. \"The Keel Row\" is traditionally played, and much dust is raised by the horses. Both the King's Troop's lead gun and the Queen's Cavalry Standard are trotted in the presence of the Queen and the Royal Colonels as they salute them.\n\nAs the trot-past ends the mounted band salutes the Queen, the drumhorse riders crossing their drumsticks above their heads. They then proceed back to the east side of Horse Guards Parade and halt in place.\n\nTheir director of music turns inwards on his horse as a signal to the Field Officer that the Household Cavalry and the King's Troop are now in position to formally end the proceedings under the command of the Field Officer.\n\nDuring the final Royal Salute, as the parade renders their birthday wishes from all 7 regiments of the Household Division to their colonel-in-chief, the colour of No. 1 Guard is lowered to the ground by the Ensign while \"God Save the Queen\" is played by the Massed Bands. Forming divisions once more, accompanied by the Corps of Drums, the guards prepare to march off, and the Household Cavalry and the King's Troop leave the field. The Field Officer, after forming the parade for the march-off, then rides towards the saluting base, informing the Queen that the guards are ready to march off the field while the RSM of the Escort returns his sword into his scabbard as an orderly returns to him his pace stick.\n\nThe King's Troop, Royal Horse Artillery leaves Horse Guards Parade and proceeds to Green Park (adjacent to Buckingham Palace) to formally commence the royal 41-gun salute. At the same time in the Tower of London, the Honourable Artillery Company takes its positions in the tower grounds for the special 62-gun salute that will be happen when the Queen arrives. This gun salute is only done by the HAC during royal anniversaries.\n\nLed by the massed bands, the Queen places herself at the head of her foot guards. The entire parade of 1,000 soldiers and 400 musicians marches up the Mall towards Buckingham Palace. The Markers then march off the grounds carrying the regimental company colours on the marker flags. The King's Troop and the HAC, now in place, get ready to commence firing their respective gun salutes during the Royal Family's arrival at the palace. At the same time, the old and new Queen's Guards, now performing the Changing of the Guard in the palace forecourt at the same time as the ceremony being done, also prepare for the royal carriages' arrival and to salute the Queen on her carriage when she arrives.\n\nWhen the Queen returns to Buckingham Palace, the first division of the Escort to the Colour forms into two detachments of the new guard and enters the forecourt, opposite the old guard; but unlike the usual Changing of the Guard, the Regimental Sergeant Major participates in the ceremony. The remainder of the guards perform a march-past outside the gateway, in quick time instead of the usual slow time, with the Queen, positioned before the central gateway, receiving their salute. As the guards march past, their regimental marches are played by the massed and mounted bands respectively. The rest of the Royal Family observes the march-past from the balcony.\n\nThe Queen's carriage passes into the palace between the Old and New Guards, with both guards saluting her. The usual semi-daily Changing of the Guard continues on the forecourt of the palace.\n\nThe gun salutes begin on the arrival of the Queen at Buckingham Palace, with the King's Troop firing a 41-gun royal salute in Green Park and the Honourable Artillery Company firing a 62-gun royal salute from the Tower of London grounds.\n\nFinally, the Queen and the Royal Family on the palace balcony witness a flypast by the Royal Air Force, often featuring the Battle of Britain Memorial Flight and the Red Arrows. This is once again followed by the National Anthem and in special years, a feu de joie followed by the shouting of the three cheers to the Queen on behalf of the entire Household Division.\n\nBelow are links to words and music of the regimental marches of the five foot guards regiments.\n\nSlow marches\n\nQuick marches\nMusic for all five regiments' quick marches \n\nSince only one colour can be trooped down the ranks at a time, each year a single battalion of the five Foot Guards regiments is selected to troop its colours.\n\nSince 1993, the 2nd Battalions of the Grenadier Guards, Coldstream Guards and Scots Guards have been in \"suspended animation\" - they are represented in the parade by the three incremental companies. No incremental companies, however, serve for their respective 3rd Battalions, as well as for the 2nd and 3rd Battalions of the Irish and Welsh Guards.\n\nThe number of soldiers participating in Trooping the Colour in London has declined over the years due to defence budget cuts in Household Division battalions as well as the battalions' commitments to military and peacekeeping operations overseas. This gives some of the units little time to practice ceremonial functions. However, the format of the ceremony has remained the same over the centuries following routines of old battle formations used in the era of musket warfare.\n\nIn Australia the Trooping the Queen's Colour takes place annually on the Queen's Birthday Holiday by the staff cadets of Royal Military College, Duntroon in Canberra, formerly at the RMC parade grounds and now at Rod Point at the shores of Lake Burley Griffin. The Queen's colour was trooped there for the first time on the Queen's Birthday Parade in 1956, a practice which has continued since then. Colours were first presented to the Corps of Staff Cadets by His Majesty King George VI when, as Duke of York, he visited Australia in 1927. These colours are now lodged in the college's Patterson Hall. Colours were again presented by Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II on 10 May 1988 and most recently on 22 October 2011 during a brief visit to Australia, coinciding with RMC Duntroon's centenary year.\n\nThe Champion Company of the Corps of Staff Cadets is named after the Sovereign's Company and it carries the Queen Elizabeth II's banner, which was first presented to the Corps of Staff Cadets by Her Majesty the Queen Mother on February 26, 1958. The Sovereign's Company is entitled to carry the banner on all ceremonial parades as well as escorting the Queen's colour during the Trooping the Colour. The Governor-General of Australia, being Her Majesty's representative in the Commonwealth, is the reviewing officer of the parade, and since the move to Rod Field, has been attended by the public as well.\n\nIn Canada the Trooping the Colour ceremony on Parliament Hill takes place, with a trooping of the Queen's Colour, only for the Queen, members of the Royal Family, the Governor General, or a Lieutenant-Governor, on Remembrance Day, or in honour of the Queen's Birthday, on Victoria Day. New colours may also be trooped when they are presented. Colours are also trooped during unit anniversaries. In Ottawa, should any of the above be absent for the ceremony, the salute is taken by the Minister of National Defence and the Chief of the Defence Staff, and the Regimental Colour is trooped instead.\n\n\nJordan hosted its first Trooping the Colour - the first in the Middle East - in June 2016 celebrating the centenary of the Arab Revolt against the Ottoman Empire. The Parade was the official celebrations of the centennial of the Great Arab Revolt () or Arab Revolt Parade on coverage online. In 2017, the Trooping of the Colour (officially known as the Flag Parade) was moved to September and is held annually. Around 1,000 troops take part in the parade, which is held yearly in Amman, the national capital. Al Rayah Square (Square of the Emblem) was specially built for this occasion near the royal court. It stands on an area of 6,300 square metres and can host up to 5,000 people. In the parade, the King awards the Colours of the Arab Revolt to one of the army's battalions which holds it until the next Trooping the Colour. \n\nIn 2016, the colours went to the 28th prince Hussein bin Abdullah II Rangers Brigade. In 2017, the colours were awarded to the 39th Ja'far bin Abi Talib Infantry Battalion. In 2018, the colours were in the possession of the 9th Prince Mohammed Mechanised Battalion.\n\nKenya is one of two African countries that still practices the traditional British ceremony of Trooping the Colour.\n\nThis takes place every 12 December on Jamhuri Day (the day when Kenya became an independent nation and later a republic), but unlike the British one all the three services of the Kenya Defence Forces takes part in the Trooping the colour. The service whose battalion is trooping the colour provides number one and number two guards.\n\nThe ceremony normally begins at 11:30 after the arrival of the President of Kenya, who takes the national salute. After finishing his inspection of the parade, the band plays a slow march followed with a quick march the lone drummer then breaks away to take his position beside number one guard to play the drummers call, signalling the officers of No.1 Guard to take positions to receive the colour. The escort for the colour then marches off to collect the colour as the massed KDF band plays the chosen Kenyan tune. After the hand over and as the Escort presents arms the first verse of the Kenya national anthem is played, then the escort to the colour marches off in a slow march to the tune of the British grenadier guards. The first tune normally played during the march is always 'By land and sea'.\n\nAlso part of the Commonwealth, Malaysia performs Trooping the Colours every first Saturday of June, the official birthday of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, the elected Malaysian King, in front of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, the Raja Permaisuri Agong, the Prime Minister of Malaysia, the Deputy Prime Minister, and other officials of the Government, and officers of the Malaysian Armed Forces, of which the King is the Commander-in-Chief as prescribed by the Malaysian Constitution of 1957 as amended.\n\nThe Malaysian trooping coincides with the publication of an Honours List for the King's Birthday on the same day. It also incorporates many elements of the British Trooping ceremony, including a Royal Procession before and after the parade, The Sovereign's Escort, Saluting Base at Merdeka Square or at the Merdeka Stadium, Royal Inspection, the duties of Field Officer, Major of the Parade and Adjutant officers and the NCO duties of Regt. Sergeant Majors and Colour Sergeants, the Royal Salute, 21-gun salutes by the Royal Regiment of Artillery, and flypasts (flying the Malaysian flag and the flags of the Armed forces). It is conducted in Malay and includes prayers, in the Islamic traditions of the Malaysian Armed Forces. Motorized vehicles are used in the Royal Procession from the Royal Malaysian Police. The main differences are that five colours are trooped, covering all three branches of the Armed Forces, and some of marches played are locally composed. This threefold representation is reflected in the composition of the Colours Party, the Escort for/to the Colours and the Massed Military Bands in attendance.\n\nThe 2014 event was held on Friday, 13 June, at Kem Perdana, Sungai Besi, which was a departure from normal tradition of the Saturday troopings. This was the very first time in Malaysian history that Trooping the Colour was held on the Friday in June closest to the King's Birthday, rather than the traditional first Saturday of the month. In an old tradition which resumed in 2016 at the National Heroes' Square, Putrajaya, if the celebrations fall on Ramadan, then the birthday parade is held on the Friday before 29 July, Heroes' Day.\n\nFor the first time in history, the traditional Trooping the Colours was held on 19 September 2017, the Tuesday after Malaysia Day, in National Heroes' Square, Putrajaya, given the decision to move the King's Birthday to the Monday following Hari Merdeka. Thus, the Trooping the Colours in Putrajaya ends more than a month of national celebrations in honour of the anniversary of Malaysian independence in 1957 and the formation of the armed forces in 1932.\n\nGiven Malta's history as a former British dominion, the Armed Forces of Malta performs Trooping the Colour every 13 December in celebration of Republic Day at St. George’s Square in Valletta, the national capital. The salute is taken by the President of Malta, who is the commander in chief of the AFM.\n\nThe Singapore Armed Forces performs Trooping the Colours annually in the SAF Day Parade on 1 July. It is toned down as compared to the British version and is done after the awarding of the State Colours to the Best units of the Army, Navy and Air Force. If new Colours have been consecrated on SAF day, they are usually included in the Trooping, but if otherwise, are Trooped on a separate day. The Escorts to the Colour (No.1 Guard) are usually formed by the Singapore Armed Forces Military Police Command, while Nos. 2-4 Guards are composed of personnel from the SAF National Day Parade Guard of Honour Companies. Unlike the British parade, it has supporting contingents that march past as well.\n\nThe salute is taken by the President of Singapore, the Prime Minister of Singapore, and the Chief of Defence Force, while the band in attendance is either the SAF Central Band or the SAF Ceremonial Band A (both from the Singapore Armed Forces Bands).\n\nThe No.2 Guard is usually made up of personnel from the Singapore Army's Best Army Unit Competition winner for the current year, typically the 1st Commando Battalion, Singapore Armed Forces Commando Formation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40171236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40171236", "title": "Tzeporah Berman", "text": "Tzeporah Berman\n\nTzeporah Berman (born February 5, 1969) is a Canadian environmental activist, campaigner and writer. She is known for her role as one of the organizers of the logging blockades in Clayoquot Sound, British Columbia in 1992–93. The protest against the logging of the temperate rainforest was, at the time, the largest act of civil disobedience in Canadian history. Working with Greenpeace, Berman has helped bring the clearcut logging of Canada's rainforest to international prominence. She has worked on the Great Bear Rainforest campaign, and the Boreal campaign. She is a strategic advisor on clean energy, oilsands and pipelines for many environmental, First Nations and philanthropic organizations. She has been co-director of Greenpeace International's Global Climate and Energy Program, Executive Director and Co-founder of PowerUp Canada and Co-founder and Campaign Director of ForestEthics.\n\nIn 2009, Berman served on British Columbia’s Green Energy Task Force. The task force, appointed by Premier Gordon Campbell, was charged with making recommendations on the development of renewable energy for the province. Berman was one of the experts in the environmental documentary \"The 11th Hour\", produced by Leonardo DiCaprio. She was named as one of six Canadian nominees for the Schwab Foundation for Social Entrepreneurship social entrepreneur of the year award, one of \"50 Visionaries Changing the World\" in \"Utne Reader\" and as \"Canada's Queen of Green\" in a cover story by \"Readers Digest\". She was included in the Royal British Columbia Museum permanent exhibit of “150 people who have changed the face of British Columbia.” In 2015 Berman served on the British Columbia Governments Climate Leadership Team and was appointed in 2016 to serve on the Alberta Governments Oil Sands Advisory Group as Co-Chair. Berman was listed of one of the 35 Most Influential Women in British Columbia by BC Business Magazine and awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Law from University of British Columbia.\n\nBorn Susanne Faye Tzeporah Berman, she grew up in London, Ontario, the third of four siblings in a middle-class Jewish family. Her father owned a small advertising company and her mother had a business that made promotional flags and pennants. The family spent summers at her mother’s family's cottage in Lake of the Woods. Her father died when Berman was in her early teens and her mother died two years later. Her older sister, Corrine, who was then twenty, persuaded the authorities to allow the four children—including her other sister Wendy and younger brother Steven—to remain together until Corrine turned twenty-one and could assume legal custody.\n\nAfter high school, Berman moved to Toronto to attend Ryerson University's fashion arts design program. While she was successful in design—Harry Rosen, who judged the school's final show called her a “bright light on Canada’s fashion scene”—she found a new calling and switched to environmental studies at York University.\n\nBerman is a Professor at York University and was awarded an Honorary Doctorate in Law from the University of British Columbia.\n\nIn 1992, Berman travelled to the Carmanah Valley on Vancouver Island to do fieldwork on threatened seabirds. The following year when she returned to continue her survey, she found that a logging crew had clear-cut the hillside. In 1993, the Clayoquot Sound Land Use Decision had granted pulp-and-paper giant MacMillan Bloedel rights to clear cut two thirds of a 650,000 acre lowland coastal temperate rainforest—the largest of its kind in the world. Berman joined with Valerie Langer and members of Friends of Clayoquot Sound in the growing Clayoquot protests. That summer, Friends of Clayoquot Sound and Greenpeace launched blockades against the logging. Berman came to national and international attention as one of the spokespersons for the protests, which employed nonviolent civil disobedience tactics taught in a series of peace camps in Tofino and in high-profile locations such as Stanley Park in Vancouver. The blockades lasted for five months and became the largest act of civil disobedience in Canadian history; over 850 people were arrested.\nBerman played a key role in the negotiations between MacMillan Bloedel (now owned by Weyerhaeuser), the activists and the First Nations. MacBlo agreed to hand over its logging rights in Clayoquot Sound to native-controlled companies who would keep the old-growth forests intact. However, the deal did nothing to end the polarization between the logging industry and the activists; clearcut logging of old growth forests in Canada continued. A poll by Greenpeace found that only 14% of Canadians supported the MacBlo deal.\n\nBy the late 1990s, Greenpeace had been successful in Europe using ad campaigns against companies engaging in practices considered damaging to the environment. In 2000, Berman co-founded ForestEthics, a group devoted to using tactics that would convince companies to change their ways or risk loss of sales. One of Berman's first successful actions was the Victoria’s Secret campaign. The company had been printing a million copies per day of its glossy catalogues using paper from old-growth timber. The ForestEthics campaign initiated street-theatre demonstrations and fake fashion ads to force the undergarment manufacturer to consider changing its practices. After a few weeks, Berman was able to negotiate different wood-pulp sources with company management. Similar campaigns targeting Staples and Office Depot led them to reconsider using old-growth timber. The strategy was not just to tell companies what they should stop doing, but rather \"what they should continue doing and start doing in order to stay in business but avoid protests.\" Berman went on to be one of the lead negotiators in the Canadian Boreal Forest Agreement that protected millions of hectares of boreal forest.\n\nIn 2004 Berman switched her focus to climate change and founded a nonprofit environmental organization called PowerUp Canada that worked successfully to create greater support in Canada for carbon pricing and defended the BC carbon tax from critics threatening to \"axe the tax.\" In 2010 Berman was hired to Co-direct Greenpeace International's climate and energy program in 40 countries. In that capacity she was the team leader for the creation of the Arctic campaign, contributed to the campaign to get Volkswagen to support vehicle efficiency regulations in the EU and ran a successful campaign against Facebook, on Facebook to encourage the company to demand renewable energy in its procurement for data centers. Before leaving Greenpeace she helped to design and coordinate the \"Clean Our Cloud\" campaign that encouraged the largest IT companies in the world such as Apple and Google to demand and invest in renewable energy.\n\nIn 2012 Berman moved back to Canada and began consulting with philanthropic foundations, environmental organizations and First Nations on climate and energy policy and to design campaigns on oil sands and pipelines. In 2015 Berman was appointed by the British Columbia Government to the Climate Leadership Team to make recommendations on climate policy in British Columbia. In 2016 she was appointed to be Co-Chair of the Oil Sands Advisory Group by the Alberta Government to make recommendations on implementing the new Climate Leadership Plan, reviewing cumulative impacts of oil sands operations and design climate recommendations for the pathway to 2050.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3785489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3785489", "title": "WEVD", "text": "WEVD\n\nWEVD (originally broadcasting at 1220 kHz AM, later on 1300 kHz, for many years on 1330 kHz and finally on 1050 kHz), was an American brokered programming radio station with some news-talk launched in August 1927 by the Socialist Party of America. Making use of the initials of recently deceased party leader Eugene Victor Debs in its call sign, the station operated from Woodhaven in the New York City borough of Queens. The station was purchased with a $250,000 radio fund raised by the Socialist Party in its largest fundraising effort of the 1920s and was intended as spreading progressive ideas to a mass audience. A number of national trade unions and other institutions aided the Socialists in obtaining the station.\n\nOperation of the station was taken over by the publishing association responsible for producing the Yiddish-language social democratic daily newspaper \"The Jewish Daily Forward\" in 1932. A FM station using the same call letters were added during the 1950s. After briefly leaving AM broadcasting in 1979, \"The Forward\" swapped its FM frequency for another AM frequency and continued broadcasting as a small ethnic station until divesting itself late in the 1980s.\n\nRadio broadcasting emerged on a mass scale in the United States during the first half of the 1920s, with the number of stations in operation rising from 28 in 1921 to 571 in 1925. A new form of mass media had emerged. Congress passed federal legislation called the Radio Act of 1927 early in that year establishing a Federal Radio Commission (FRC), which was granted power to regulate the emerging industry, granting licenses and assigning broadcasting wavelengths to bring order to a chaotic market.\n\nUnder this legislation, broadcasters would not own the right to broadcast at a certain frequency but would rather use what was deemed a public resource for a limited period of time, not to exceed three years. To earn continuation of the privilege of broadcasting over the public airwaves, stations would be forced to demonstrate service to the public interest under the new law.\n\nThe Socialist Party of America was in the throes of a membership decline throughout the decade of the 1920s, the communist left wing of the organization having been suspended, expelled, or split from the organization beginning with the seminal 1919 Emergency National Convention of the party. Dues-paying membership fell during this period from more than 100,000 to less than 10,000. The party's finances were similarly deeply affected and the organization felt pressed to explore new means of reaching an increasingly apathetic public. At its December 1926 quarterly meeting the governing National Executive Committee of the Socialist Party decided to erect a radio broadcasting station as a memorial to its recently deceased co-founder, Eugene V. Debs, who had died in October of the previous year.\n\nIn March 1927 the Socialist Party of America launched a fundraising drive aimed at generating $250,000 for the purchase of an AM radio station. Party leader and head of the League for Industrial Democracy Norman Thomas was chosen as chairman of the Board of Trustees for the new enterprise and venerated party founder Morris Hillquit was appointed as treasurer.\n\nA total of 21 others from the liberal, labor, and socialist community were appointed as a Board of Trustees, including such publicly recognized figures as pacifist minister John Haynes Holmes, Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters founder A. Philip Randolph, Amalgamated Clothing Workers leader Sidney Hillman, novelist Upton Sinclair, and American Civil Liberties Union head Roger Baldwin. G. August Gerber, son of New York Socialist Party functionary Julius Gerber, was named as secretary of the Board and director of the fundraising drive.\n\nAt the time of the fundraising drive's launch Norman Thomas remarked:\n\"The usefulness of a well established radio station open to full and frank discussion of great economic and social issues is beyond doubt. Past experience combines with common sense in assuring us that the commercial broadcasting stations cannot be expected to give much time or attention to the great vision for which Gene Debs gave his life. I am glad to observe that you have invited and obtained the acceptance of men and women as trustees who are not members of the Socialist Party. Such ... [shall] guarantee that the Debs Memorial Radio Fund will be free from a narrow and intolerant partisanship.\"\n\nThomas and Hillquit were explicit in their desire to make the radio station a memorial to the departed Debs. In a joint statement they called for a \"monument\" which was to be \"a living instrument of social service...to be operated in the interests of all progressive movements and ideas and in aid of all struggles for social justice in the tolerant and broad-minded spirit of Gene Debs.\"\n\nThe Debs Memorial Radio Fund launched its fundraising campaign with a mailing of 15,000 letters soliciting funds for the establishment of a Socialist Party-owned radio station. This first round of solicitation brought in just over $2650 — barely more than 1% of the declared goal $250,000 sought for the project. The Radio Fund's trustees estimated cost of launching a station at $100,000 and hoped to invest the balance to generate sufficient interest income to allow for perpetual operations. While this grand vision of substantial funding proved overly optimistic, the necessary funds for the acquisition of a station were successfully raised from party members and sympathetic labor unions during the first half of 1927.\n\nAround the first of August 1927 the trustees of the \"Debs Memorial Radio Fund\" announced the purchase of AM radio station WSOM, transmitting from Woodhaven in the New York City borough of Queens. Immediate application was to be made to the Federal Radio Commission for a change of call letters to WDEBS, it was reported, as well as for an increase of transmission power from 500 to 1,000 watts to enable the station to broadcast with less interference from the skyscrapers of New York. The broadcast studio was to be located somewhere in Manhattan, it was reported.\n\nThe Socialist Party and its partners had entered into the acquisition of the existing station, formerly owned by Union Course Laboratories of Woodhaven, after having received assurances from the Federal Radio Commission that a broadcasting license would be promptly granted upon purchase. Joining the Socialist Party with the Debs radio project were a number of national and international trade unions, including the United Mine Workers of America, the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union, the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America, the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, and the United Hebrew Trades. Also joining the fundraising effort were the left wing fraternal benefit society the Workmen's Circle and the financially successful Yiddish language social democratic daily, \"The Jewish Daily Forward,\" headed by Abraham Cahan.\n\nWhile the purchase price of the station was not revealed in the press, August Gerber indicated that the bulk of the $250,000 operating fund — which had still not been fully met — was to be used to cover ongoing operating expenses. Gerber expressed a belief that the station would become self-supporting in fairly short order and indicated a desire to make the new New York station the flagship of a network of \"labor radio stations\" throughout the United States.\n\nAt the time of the station's purchase, Gerber declared:\n\"The purchase of a labor station...will guarantee to minority opinion in America its right to be heard without censorship. With radio now privately owned and controlled, a station like WDEBS is the only cry in the wilderness...\n\"We promise that, as soon as we can proceed with full operation, Station WDEBS will be not merely a chronicler of events, nor a vehicle of music and entertainment, though we hope not to fail even in these matters, but a militant, fighting champion of the rights of the oppressed, of all those who toil by hand or brain to produce the wealth of this world.\"\n\nThe party's plan for the use of call letters WDEBS was short-circuited by the FRC, which ruled that only aircraft could use five-letter call names and that ground radio station was limited to four letters or fewer. Eugene V. Debs' initials were thus substituted, and WEVD was born.\n\nThe Debs Memorial Radio Fund began operating WEVD on August 18, 1927. Broadcasting was not limited to the English language, however. One of the organizations behind the funding of the WEVD project, the widely circulated and financially successful \"Jewish Daily Forward,\" launched what would become what one radio historian has called \"the most famous Yiddish radio program of all time\" — \"The Forward Hour.\" The show was first broadcast every Sunday morning at 11 am and gained a significant following among the Yiddish-speaking immigrant community of New York City.\n\nFinances were tight throughout the entire period of the Socialist Party's operation of the station. Operating costs were minimized through the generosity of the ILGWU, which allowed the station free use of the entire 6th floor of its headquarters building in New York City. A network of studios and reception rooms were created in the space, providing a fully adequate base of operations for the station.\n\nOperating funding came from small-scale listener contributions, regular donations from the American Civil Liberties Union and other organizations interested in the station's mission, and the left wing philanthropic trust, the American Fund for Public Service, commonly known as the Garland Fund. Station manager August Gerber dedicated much of his time to keeping the station's meager revenue stream flowing, although already by January 1928 Norman Thomas was opining that the Socialist Party and its radio station \"can't go on living like this.\"\n\nOn top of the Socialist Party's financial troubles came regulatory problems with the FRC, which on May 25, 1928 demanded that WEVD and 163 other stations show cause why their broadcasting licenses should not be revoked as part of a plan to rationalize the distribution of radio bandwidth by forcing out small stations catering to niche audiences in favor of fewer high powered stations broadcasting commercially to a mass market.\n\nRepresentatives of WEVD and 109 other threatened stations made their way to Washington, D.C. in July 1928 for two weeks of regulatory hearings on the issue. Station manager Gerber responded with a statement emphasizing the importance of defending free speech and the right of political minorities to submit their ideas to a broad public. Party leader Norman Thomas echoed this perspective, declaring the value of WEVD and other community stations as a bulwark against a \"big chain system\" which tended to \"standardize — to make robots and Babbitts of the American people.\"\n\nThe efforts of Gerber and Thomas ultimately proved successful, with the FRC approving the WEVD renewal application one month later. In the FRC's judgment WEVD had followed a \"very satisfactory policy\" of representing a range of political and economic perspectives befitting \"the mouthpiece of a substantial political or religious minority.\" A editor at the \"New York Times\" concurred with the radio regulators' assessment, noting that revoking WEVD's license on the basis of its political views \"would be both unjust and stupid.\"\n\nWEVD won praise for its news reporting and commentary, taking an array of issues relating to world affairs, American foreign policy, and activities of the American labor movement. In an era in which few stations did likewise, WEVD did not fail to produce programming dealing with African-American history and culture, including the broadcast of a weekly \"Pullman Porters Hour\" sponsored by the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters which included both entertainment and talks on serious topics of interest to the black community of New York City.\n\nWEVD's Educational Director, Paul Blanshard, expanded the station's educational content following its August 1928 license renewal, including weekly courses on economics conducted by A.J. Muste of Brookwood Labor College. Sunday afternoons the station broadcast a regular speakers' forum which included such prominent liberal voices as journalist Walter Lippman, Rabbi Stephen S. Wise, and Oswald Garrison Villard, publisher of \"The Nation\" magazine.\n\nLate in 1929 WEVD was moved to a new frequency by the Federal Radio Commission, 1300 AM, and was able to boost its power somewhat. While the move had been sought by the Debs Memorial Radio Fund, which remained the legal entity owning the station, the change ultimately solved little — WEVD remained underpowered and forced to share its frequency with three other stations. The station broadcast 50 hours per week, ranging from as little as two hours on Fridays to 18 hours on Wednesdays.\n\nWEVD found itself in a difficult financial position that was a veritable Catch-22 — unions and other left wing institutions were difficult to motivate to make donations due to the station's limited broadcast time and poor signal coverage, but without these donations it would be impossible to improve the transmission situation which would make the donations happen. To make up the financial shortfall the station became aggressive in pushing for contributions from its listeners.\n\nThe FRC continued to seek a reduction in the number of stations to more closely match the limited number of broadcast frequencies and saw weak and underfinanced stations such as WEVD as fodder for the executioner's axe. A number of complaints about the station began to be accumulated. In October 1930 a new set of hearings began with respect to the license renewal of the socialist radio station. A range of violations of the 1927 Radio Act were cited, including repeated failure to announce station call letters on the air every 15 minutes and inability to stay on its assigned wavelength. A recommendation was made by the FRC examiner assigned to the case to deny the station's license renewal application.\n\nOnce again Norman Thomas, August Gerber, and Morris Hillquit jumped to action, painting the station's woes as part of a political vendetta aimed at homogenization of the radio airwaves at the expense of political minorities. The American Civil Liberties Union promised its aid in making the WEVD renewal controversy a national free speech campaign. The final report of the FRC examiner was filed on December 11, 1930 and the station was notified of the decision a week later. Within two weeks the station had submitted a 17-page challenge of the FRC examiner's ruling, which combined with public pressure from listeners compelled the FRC to temporarily reverse its decision on January 13, 1931.\n\nAdditional regulatory hearings about WEVD were held in March and May 1931, with regulators charging that the Debs Memorial Radio Fund lacked sufficient financial resources to meet minimum standards established by the FRC. The uniqueness of WEVD's broadcast content was also denied. Regulators thus sought to award the WEVD frequency to station WFOX, owned by Paramount Pictures, arguing that station's \"superior fitness to serve the public convenience, necessity and welfare.\"\n\nIn response to the FRC's hostile action, efforts were made to address the situation at WEVD through a fundamental reorganization of the operation. Problems to be addressed included inadequate equipment, poor broadcast location, insufficient funding, and a haphazard planning of station content. Party leader Morris Hillquit was particularly instrumental in the reorganization, coming up with the idea of selling $50,000 in WEVD stock in order to pay off standing obligations and invest in new capacity and content.\n\nThe need to raise funds to improve and expand operations during the second half of 1931 was answered by Abe Cahan, editor and publisher of the social democratic \"Jewish Daily Forward,\" the largest Yiddish-language newspaper in the world. Cahan was firmly committed to the importance of the project and he made the newspapers funds freely available, depositing $70,000 on account in the fall of 1931 for the expansion of the station assuming the renewal of its broadcast license. Together with previous and subsequent cash infusions, the \"Forward\" had invested $200,000 in WEVD by the end of that year.\n\nIn a split decision the FRC renewed the license for WEVD at the end of October 1931. Preparations immediately began for the transfer of the station's operations from the 6th floor of the ILGWU building in Manhattan to a new home located on Long Island, and the station's management was shuffled. The grand opening of the new studio took place on September 28, 1932, and was marked by an array of liberal and socialist worthies who spoke at the occasion, including Hillquit, Cahan, educator John Dewey, magazine publisher Oswald Garrison Villard, and writer Heywood Broun.\n\nThe North American Regional Broadcasting Agreement of 1932 mandated the change of broadcast frequencies of a number of radio stations to cause less interference in Canada and Mexico. Station WEVD was among those affected, forced to move from 1300 to 1330 kilohertz. At this time WEVD shared its broadcast frequency with another station, WHAP/WFAB — a station which was ultimately sold to WEVD and eliminated through merger in 1938.\n\nHowever, two other stations shared the broadcast frequency with WEVD: WHAZ, the radio station of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York, which was on-air only on Monday evenings, and WBBR (later called WPOW) also of New York, New York, owned by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society, publishing arm of the religious group Jehovah's Witnesses. From the time of the 1932 broadcasting agreement through the 1970s the Socialist and Yiddish-language WEVD continued to share its station frequency with the religious group, transmitting 86 hours per week while leaving Sundays and early mornings until 8 am to WPOW, and Monday nights to WHAZ. WHAZ was sold to the owners of WPOW in 1973 and turned into a non-interfering, daytime-only station, with WPOW taking the old WHAZ Monday night hours.\n\nIt is said that \"he who pays the piper calls the tune,\" and it was clear by 1932 from whence came the funding of \"Debs radio.\" The \"Jewish Daily Forward's\" investment in the station soon swelled to nearly $250,000 and its influence over programming increased commensurately. Throughout the 1930s the station's editorial line moved steadily away from explicitly socialist politics to a more centrist orientation, paralleling the political perspective of \"The Forward\" itself.\n\nFree access to the airwaves by trade unions was increasingly restricted and left wing political broadcasting sometimes faced preemption in favor of sponsored commercial content. The station ultimately emerged as the radio arm of \"The Forward,\" while the Socialist Party turned to the airwaves of the National Broadcast Company and other channels in its efforts to make its political message heard on a mass basis.\n\nWEVD did not become completely apolitical in this period, however, as during the 1930s a weekly talk show was launched hosted by Chester M. Wright of the International Labor News Service. This show paid its way through a commercial sponsorship by Avalon Cigarettes and was syndicated to a national audience through electrical transcription.\n\nOn January 9, 1950, Harold Cammer, Burton Zorn, Edwin M. Ottenbourg, Samuel Harris Cohen spoke with Stanley G. House as moderator on \"Should New York State Have a Little Taft-Hartley Law?\"\n\nIn 1951, a WEVD-FM was added to the airwaves, first broadcasting at 107.5, then moving to 97.9 a year later, where it remained for the next 36 years. FM.\n\nOn February 6, 1953, New York University philosophy professor Sidney Hook discussed \"The Threat to Academic Freedom\" with Victor Riesel and others in the evening on WEVD radio.\n\nIn 1981, the Forward Association sold WEVD to Salem Media, which changed the station's format and call letters, making it the Christian station WNYM. Salem subsequently purchased WPOW, merging that station into WNYM and eliminating the 52-year time-share on 1330 as of December 31, 1984. WEVD-FM remained on the air under \"The Forward's\" ownership at this time. WNYM evolved into the present WWRV, now broadcasting around the clock on 1330 AM.\n\nIn 1988, Emmis Broadcasting acquired the license of WNBC and moved WFAN from 1050 to 660 AM. Emmis sold the license for 1050 to Spanish Broadcasting System (SBS), which quickly agreed to trade that license with cash to the Forward Association for WEVD-FM. Until the latter transaction was approved, SBS operated 1050 as a Spanish-language station called WUKQ. When the deal was finally consummated, WEVD moved its call letters and programming to 1050 and the former WEVD-FM became WSKQ-FM. WEVD gradually replaced much of its brokered ethnic programming with liberal talk shows over the next several years; it gained some loyal listeners, but not enough to keep the station economically viable. In 2001, the Forward Association entered into a local marketing agreement with ESPN Radio, and WEVD began broadcasting that network's programming on September 2 of that year. In 2003 the station was sold outright to ESPN and its call letters changed to WEPN, officially ending the 76-year history of WEVD in New York City. \n\nThe WEVD call letters currently reside on a low-power television satellite station in Dover, Delaware for Salisbury, Maryland-based ABC Television Network affiliate WMDT; in that case they stand for \"Television in Delaware\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18585354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18585354", "title": "Waithood", "text": "Waithood\n\nWaithood (a portmanteau of \"wait\" and \"adulthood\") is a period of stagnation in the lives of young unemployed college graduates in various industrializing and developing nations or regions, primarily in the Middle East, North Africa (MENA) and India, where their expertise is still not widely needed or applicable. \"Waithood\" is described as \"a kind of prolonged adolescence\", and \"the bewildering time in which large proportions of youth spend their best years waiting\". It is a phase in which the difficulties youth face in each of these interrelated spheres of life result in a debilitating state of helplessness and dependency. One commentator argues, waithood can be best understood by examining outcomes and linkages across five different sectors: education, employment, housing, credit, and marriage. \n\nWaithood is applicable only to college educated people who are not compelled to settle in blue collar jobs due to the support from family elders or resources. Due to the lack of any potential employment, waithood is also tangentially related to rising rate of belated parenthood in various developing countries, with younger people choosing to delay or being forced to delay starting their own families, likes of which were uncommon in the modern industrialized countries when they were developing.\n\n\n)"}
{"id": "2167199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2167199", "title": "Warning system", "text": "Warning system\n\nWarning system is any system of biological or technical nature deployed by an individual or group to inform of a future danger. Its purpose is to enable the deployer of the warning system to prepare for the danger and act accordingly to mitigate or avoid it.\n\nWarnings cannot be effective unless people react to them. People are more likely to ignore a system that regularly produces false warnings (the cry-wolf effect), but reducing the number of false warnings generally also increases the risk of not giving a warning when it is needed. Some warnings are non-specific: for instance, the probability of an earthquake of a certain magnitude in a certain area over the next decade. Such warnings cannot be used to guide short-term precautions such as evacuation. Opportunities to take long-term precautions, such as better building codes and disaster preparedness, may be ignored.\n\n\n\n\nHistorical beacon-based systems:\n\nSpace based missile early warning systems:\n\nAirborne early warning systems:\n\nGround-based early warning radar systems:\n\nOptical sensors:\n\nEmergency broadcasting:\n\n"}
{"id": "460253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=460253", "title": "Water conservation", "text": "Water conservation\n\nWater conservation includes all the policies, strategies and activities to sustainably manage the natural resource of fresh water, to protect the hydrosphere, and to meet the current and future human demand. Population, household size, and growth and affluence all affect how much water is used. Factors such as climate change have increased pressures on natural water resources especially in manufacturing and agricultural irrigation. Many US cities have already implemented policies aimed at water conservation, with much success.\n\nThe goals of water conservation efforts include:\n\nThe key activities that benefit water conservation(save water) are as follows:\nOne strategy in water conservation is rain water harvesting. Digging ponds, lakes, canals, expanding the water reservoir, and installing rain water catching ducts and filtration systems on homes are different methods of harvesting rain water. Many people in many countries keep clean containers so they can boil it and drink it, which is useful to supply water to the needy. Harvested and filtered rain water can be used for toilets, home gardening, lawn irrigation, and small scale agriculture.\n\nAnother strategy in water conservation is protecting groundwater resources. When precipitation occurs, some infiltrates the soil and goes underground. Water in this saturation zone is called groundwater. Contamination of groundwater causes the groundwater water supply to not be able to be used as resource of fresh drinking water and the natural regeneration of contaminated groundwater can takes years to replenish. Some examples of potential sources of groundwater contamination include storage tanks, septic systems, uncontrolled hazardous waste, landfills, atmospheric contaminants, chemicals, and road salts. Contamination of groundwater decreases the replenishment of available freshwater so taking preventative measures by protecting groundwater resources from contamination is an important aspect of water conservation.\n\nAn additional strategy to water conservation is practicing sustainable methods of utilizing groundwater resources. Groundwater flows due to gravity and eventually discharges into streams. Excess pumping of groundwater leads to a decrease in groundwater levels and if continued it can exhaust the resource. Ground and surface waters are connected and overuse of groundwater can reduce and, in extreme examples, diminish the water supply of lakes, rivers, and streams. In coastal regions, over pumping groundwater can increase saltwater intrusion which results in the contamination of groundwater water supply. Sustainable use of groundwater is essential in water conservation.\n\nA fundamental component to water conservation strategy is communication and education outreach of different water programs. Developing communication that educates science to land managers, policy makers, farmers, and the general public is another important strategy utilized in water conservation. Communication of the science of how water systems work is an important aspect when creating a management plan to conserve that system and is often used for ensuring the right management plan to be put into action.\n\nWater conservation programs involved in social solutions are typically initiated at the local level, by either municipal water utilities or regional governments. Common strategies include public outreach campaigns, tiered water rates (charging progressively higher prices as water use increases), or restrictions on outdoor water use such as lawn watering and car washing. Cities in dry climates often require or encourage the installation of xeriscaping or natural landscaping in new homes to reduce outdoor water usage. Most urban outdoor water use in California is residential, illustrating a reason for outreach to households as well as businesses.\n\nOne fundamental conservation goal is universal metering. The prevalence of residential water metering varies significantly worldwide. Recent studies have estimated that water supplies are metered in less than 30% of UK households, and about 61% of urban Canadian homes (as of 2001). Although individual water meters have often been considered impractical in homes with private wells or in multifamily buildings, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency estimates that metering alone can reduce consumption by 20 to 40 percent. In addition to raising consumer awareness of their water use, metering is also an important way to identify and localize water leakage. Water metering would benefit society, in the long run, it is proven that water metering increases the efficiency of the entire water system, as well as help unnecessary expenses for individuals for years to come. One would be unable to waste water unless they are willing to pay the extra charges, this way the water department would be able to monitor water usage by the public, domestic and manufacturing services.\n\nSome researchers have suggested that water conservation efforts should be primarily directed at farmers, in light of the fact that crop irrigation accounts for 70% of the world's fresh water use. The agricultural sector of most countries is important both economically and politically, and water subsidies are common. Conservation advocates have urged removal of all subsidies to force farmers to grow more water-efficient crops and adopt less wasteful irrigation techniques.\n\nNew technology poses a few new options for consumers, features such as full flush and half flush when using a toilet are trying to make a difference in water consumption and waste. Also available are modern shower heads that help reduce wasting water: Old shower heads are said to use 5-10 gallons per minute, while new fixtures available are said to use 2.5 gallons per minute and offer equal water coverage.\n\nThe Home Water Works website contains useful information on household water conservation. Contrary to the popular view that the most effective way to save water is to curtail water-using behavior (e.g., by taking shorter showers), experts suggest the most efficient way is replacing toilets and retrofitting washers; as demonstrated by two household end use logging studies in the U.S.\n\nWater-saving technology for the home includes:\n\nMany water-saving devices (such as low-flush toilets) that are useful in homes can also be useful for business water saving. Other water-saving technology for businesses includes:\n\nFor crop irrigation, optimal water efficiency means minimizing losses due to evaporation, runoff or subsurface drainage while maximizing production. An evaporation pan in combination with specific crop correction factors can be used to determine how much water is needed to satisfy plant requirements. Flood irrigation, the oldest and most common type, is often very uneven in distribution, as parts of a field may receive excess water in order to deliver sufficient quantities to other parts. Overhead irrigation, using center-pivot or lateral-moving sprinklers, has the potential for a much more equal and controlled distribution pattern. Drip irrigation is the most expensive and least-used type, but offers the ability to deliver water to plant roots with minimal losses. However, drip irrigation is increasingly affordable, especially for the home gardener and in light of rising water rates. Using drip irrigation methods can save up to 30,000 gallons of water per year when replacing irrigation systems that spray in all directions. There are also cheap effective methods similar to drip irrigation such as the use of soaking hoses that can even be submerged in the growing medium to eliminate evaporation.\n\nAs changing irrigation systems can be a costly undertaking, conservation efforts often concentrate on maximizing the efficiency of the existing system. This may include chiseling compacted soils, creating furrow dikes to prevent runoff, and using soil moisture and rainfall sensors to optimize irrigation schedules. Usually large gains in efficiency are possible through measurement and more effective management of the existing irrigation system. The 2011 UNEP Green Economy Report notes that \"[i]mproved soil organic matter from the use of green manures, mulching, and recycling of crop residues and animal manure increases the water holding capacity of soils and their ability to absorb water during torrential rains\", which is a way to optimize the use of rainfall and irrigation during dry periods in the season.\n\nWater shortage has become an increasingly difficult problem to manage. More than 40% of the world's population live in a region where the demand for water exceeds its supply. The imbalance between supply and demand, along with persisting issues such as climate change and exponential population growth, has made water reuse a necessary method for conserving water. There are a variety of methods used in the treatment of waste water to ensure that it is safe to use for irrigation of food crops and/or drinking water.\n\nSeawater desalination requires more energy than the desalination of fresh water. Despite this, many seawater desalination plants have been built in response to water shortages around the world. This makes it necessary to evaluate the impacts of seawater desalination and to find ways to improve desalination technology. Current research involves the use of experiments to determine the most effective and least energy intensive methods of desalination.\n\nSand filtration is another method used to treat water. Recent studies show that sand filtration needs further improvements, but it is approaching optimization with its effectiveness at removing pathogens from water. Sand filtration is very effective at removing protozoa and bacteria, but struggles with removing viruses. Large-scale sand filtration facilities also require large surface areas to accommodate them.\n\nThe removal of pathogens from recycled water is of high priority because wastewater always contains pathogens capable of infecting humans. The levels of pathogenic viruses have to be reduced to a certain level in order for recycled water to not pose a threat to human populations. Further research is necessary to determine more accurate methods of assessing the level of pathogenic viruses in treated wastewater.\n\nWasting of water (also called \"water waste\" in the U.S.) is the flip side of water conservation and, in household applications, it means causing or permitting discharge of water without any practical purpose. Inefficient water use is also considered wasteful. By EPA estimate, household leaks in the U.S. can waste approximately 900 billion gallons (3.4 billion cubic meters) of water annually nationwide. Generally, water management agencies are reluctant or unwilling to give a concrete definition to the somewhat fuzzy concept of water waste. However, definition of water waste is often given in local drought emergency ordinances. One example refers to any acts or omissions, whether willful or negligent, that are “causing or permitting water to leak, discharge, flow or run to waste into any gutter, sanitary sewer, watercourse or public or private storm drain, or to any adjacent property, from any tap, hose, faucet, pipe, sprinkler, pond, pool, waterway, fountain or nozzle.”. In this example, the city code also clarifies that “in the case of washing, “discharge,” “flow” or “run to waste” means that water in excess of that necessary to wash, wet or clean the dirty or dusty object, such as an automobile, sidewalk, or parking area, flows to waste. Water utilities (and other media sources) often provide listings of wasteful water-use practices and prohibitions of wasteful uses. Examples include utilities in San Antonio, Texas. Las Vegas, Nevada, California Water Service company in California, and City of San Diego, California. The City of Palo Alto in California enforces permanent water use restrictions on wasteful practices such as leaks, runoff, irrigating during and immediately after rainfall, and use of potable water when non-potable water is available. Similar restrictions are in effect in the State of Victoria, Australia. Temporary water use bans (also known as \"hosepipe bans\") are used in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. \n\nStrictly speaking, water that is discharged into the sewer, or directly to the environment is not wasted or lost. It remains within the hydrologic cycle and returns to the land surface and surface water bodies as precipitation. However, in many cases, the source of the water is at a significant distance from the return point and may be in a different catchment. The separation between extraction point and return point can represent significant environmental degradation in the watercourse and riparian strip. What is \"wasted\" is the community's supply of water that was captured, stored, transported and treated to drinking quality standards. Efficient use of water saves the expense of water supply provision and leaves more fresh water in lakes, rivers and aquifers for other users and also for supporting ecosystems. A concept that is closely related to water wasting is \"water-use efficiency.\" Water use is considered inefficient if the same purpose of its use can be accomplished with less water. Technical efficiency derives from engineering practice where it is typically used to describe the ratio of output to input and is useful in comparing various products and processes. For example, one showerhead would be considered more efficient than another if it could accomplish the same purpose (i.e., of showering) by using less water or other inputs (e.g., lower water pressure). However, the technical efficiency concept is not useful in making decisions of investing money (or resources) in water conservation measures unless the inputs and outputs are measured in value terms. This expression of efficiency is referred to as economic efficiency and is incorporated into the concept of water conservation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37360009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37360009", "title": "World Courts of Women", "text": "World Courts of Women\n\nThe World Courts of Women are public hearings that give a forum to those who are traditionally excluded from formal political and legal proceedings. Organized around particular topics relevant to the hosting country, these unofficial public enquiries highlight the injustices that women face. They include testimonies of personal experience, analyses by scholars and activists, and skill-sharing and strategizing. Through these, the World Courts aim to educate and raise awareness, record injustice and human rights violations, give voice to marginalized women, and develop alternative visions and strategies for the future.\n\nWorld Courts of Women are symbolic processes that hold unofficial public enquiries into crimes against women, including the violation of their basic human rights. The main function of these hearings is to allow an opportunity for participants to relate experiences that are not widely publicized by traditional media sources and public discourse. It aims to challenge dominant public discourse by pointing to contradictions between principles of human rights and the experiences of women. The secondary function is for the testimony to provide a resource for social movements and political movements working for social justice and women's liberation, which seek to hold powerful governments and other entities accountable to human rights standards and international law and \"transform the dominant paradigm of politics.\" \n\nThe World Courts of Women have been inspired and promoted by Corinne Kumar, an activist leader in the Tunis-based non-governmental organization and human rights advocacy group, El Taller International. In the countries where these occur, the intent is to hold their governments accountable to both international law and human ethics. While such courts lack official legitimacy, by pointing out the failures of formal laws to protect women, they can help undermine the popular acceptance of government authority that is based in patriarchy. In this sense, they aim to increase popular sovereignty and to delegitimize institutions, bureaucracy, and other social groups which are thought to be inadequate in punishing persons who violate the ethics and norms, if not also the formal laws, governing society. They challenge the traditional notion of power and powerholders; according to Kumar, \"moving out of the patriarchal mindset would mean refusing the mono-dimensional definition of power, seeking to redefine and relocate power, to discover an alternate concept of power, to find new patterns of power.\"\n\nThere are many gender biases’ in the courts especially against women. Women can be denied equal justice, equal treatment, and equal opportunity (Harbour). Women have had laws passed to protect them against violence. It took many years to actually allow them to recognize women as victims of stalking or sexual harassment. Eventually laws were passed to protect these victims. Many women have experienced and lived through the domestic violence that was done to them and no one believed them. Now society is finally recognizing the violence against women more than ever before. Even though women are still put down compared to men in certain situations or jobs the world has evolved to better the understanding that women are just as capable as men.\n\nPeople’s tribunals assert that targeted judicial systems are failing to provide access for low-income, minority, and other non-elite groups and individuals to prosecute or even bring forth a criminal charge. Investigation is also made into laws recognized by states that fail to consider personal and cultural values of human rights and dignity. These tribunals are also intended to help strengthen international conventions or norms to which governments and other elites are held.\n\nThe social spaces where the World Courts of Women occur are communities in which \"social categories are suspended, roles become fluid and interaction is privileged.\" The symbolic use of the World Courts of Women intends to provide influence, power, and standing for victims unable to find resolution in official judicial systems and institutions.\n\nThe first International War Crimes Tribunal was an investigative body immediately followed the 1966 publication of Bertrand Russell's book, \"War Crimes in Vietnam\". The tribunal investigated and evaluated the United States of America's foreign policy and military intervention in Vietnam and provided a model for further tribunals related to war crimes, human rights violations, and environmental protection.\n\nThe International Tribunal on Crimes against Women was a people's tribunal which took place on March 4–8, 1976 in Brussels, Belgium. The event was created with the intention to \"make public the full range of crimes, both violently brutal and subtly discriminatory, committed against women of all cultures.\"\n\nWhat follows is a partial list of past World Courts.\n\nIn 1992 the first World Court of Women, called the \"Asia Court on Violence Against Women\" was held in Lahore, Pakistan. The Courts of Women organized by Asian Women's Human Rights Council (AWHRC) in the Asia Pacific region inspired courts in other regions, particularly in the Arab world, Africa, and Central America. In 1995 Arab women organized the Arab Women's Court with the assistance of human rights organizations including the international NGO, El Taller. That year the court held a public hearing in Beirut, Lebanon on violence directed against women. In 1996 the \"Mahkamate El Nissa El Arabiya\" (Permanent Arab Women’s Court) was established. Different member organizations were to host this court on a rotating basis.\n\nThe Women's International War Crimes Tribunal on Japan's Military Sexual Slavery was held in December 2000. It was a people's tribunal convened to gather testimony from victims, and then, based on international laws that were in place during World War II, to try groups and individuals for rape or sexual slavery, i.e., forcing women to sexually service Japanese soldiers.\nThe World Court of Women Against War, for Peace was held March 8, 2001 in Khayelitsha, Cape Town, South Africa to bear witness to the enormous violence and genocide caused by wars around the world. 4,000 people from around the Republic of South Africa and the world participated.\n\nWorld Court of Women on U.S. War Crimes took place in Mumbai, India, on January 18, 2004, as part of the 2004 World Social Forum.\n\nThe 36th Court of Women, \"Daughters of Fire : The Indian Court of Women on Dowry and Related Forms of Violence Against Women\" was held in Bangalore, India on July 26–29, 2009.\n\nThe 37th Court of Women, \"Southeast Asia Court of Women on HIV and Human Trafficking\" was held on August 6, 2009 during the 9th International Congress on AIDS in Asia and the Pacific (ICAAP) in Nusa Dua, Bali. Twenty-two women, from six Southeast Asian countries (Indonesia, Thailand, Burma, the Philippines, Cambodia, and Singapore) spoke about living with HIV/AIDS and their experiences with human trafficking, exploitation, and violence against women.\n\n\"World Court of Women on Poverty in the United States: Disappeared in America\" was the first US example, held in Oakland, California, USA, from May 10–13, 2012. Representing the western region of the country, the focus was on poverty in the U.S.\n\nIn 2013, another World Court of Women was held in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nThe 2015 session took place in Bangalore, India, to witness the violence and injustice, and highlight the political lessons and resistance, and oppose \"the unending wars against women\".\n"}
