{"id": "26708058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26708058", "title": "ARIS Express", "text": "ARIS Express\n\nARIS Express is a free-of-charge modeling tool for business process analysis and management. It supports different modeling notations such as BPMN 2, Event-driven Process Chains (EPC), Organizational charts, process landscapes, whiteboards, etc. ARIS Express was initially developed by IDS Scheer, which was bought by Software AG in December 2010. The tool is provided as freeware on the ARIS Community webpage.\n\nARIS Express was first announced on April 28, 2009 in a press release by IDS Scheer. The first release was on July 28, 2009 in a public beta test on ARIS Community. Only people, who registered before for the beta test were allowed to download and test this beta version. This closed beta test was followed with another public beta test.\n\nThe official release of ARIS Express 1.0 was on September 9, 2009. In this first stable version, features such as Microsoft Visio import were added, which were not present in the version for the public beta test.\n\nOn February 26, 2010, ARIS Express 2.0 was released. Major changes compared to version 1.0 include BPMN 2 support, integrated spellchecking and ARISalign integration.\n\nOn May 25, 2010, version 2.1 of ARIS Express was released. This update improves BPMN 2 support, provides a new online help system for instant feedback, better ARISalign integration and some new symbols in different diagrams. Along with the release, a poster showing the most important modeling concepts supported by ARIS Express was released. In addition, an executable setup is provided for Microsoft Windows-based systems. Beginning of July, an update was released as ARIS Express 2.2, providing bug fixes only. ARIS Express version 2.2 is the current stable release.\n\nAn official press release published mid of August 2010 said there are more than 50,000 downloads of ARIS Express.\n\nOn February 2, 2011, version 2.3 of ARIS Express was released. This new version changes the file format of ARIS Express so that models can be shown in an interactive model viewer in ARIS Community. The release announcement contained no details about additional features or changes.\n\nARIS Express is a standalone single-user application. It is divided in a home screen and a modeling environment. The home screen is used to create new models or open recently edited ones. The modeling environment is used to edit diagrams.\n\nThe following notations are supported by ARIS Express. Users can create diagrams containing an unlimited number of modeling objects.\n\n\nBesides common features such as creating new diagrams, saving them as files or adding objects to the modeling canvas, ARIS Express also provides some noteworthy features, which can't be found in most comparable modeling tools.\n\n\nARIS Express can export diagrams to different formats such as:\n\n\nADF is the file format of ARIS Express. The professional tools of ARIS Platform are able to import diagrams stored in the ADF format.\nYet, there are major limitations during import - namely, each object in diagram will be treated as unique object, despite having same type and name, forcing redrawing large sections of diagrams after import.\n\nBesides export formats, it is also possible to use the clipboard to copy and paste an ARIS Express diagram into typical office suites such as Microsoft PowerPoint.\n\nARIS Express is a Java-based application, which shares some of the features of ARIS Platform products such as \"ARIS Business Architect\" and \"ARIS Business Designer\". In contrast to ARIS Platform products, ARIS Express doesn't use a central database for model storage. Instead, each diagram is stored in an ADF file.\n\nARIS Express uses Java Web Start. After download, the application can be started immediately without installation procedure. For Microsoft Windows based systems, an ordinary setup is provided, too. ARIS Express requires Java 1.6.10 or above. On first startup, the user must enter a valid ARIS Community account to register the application. Creating an ARIS Community account is free-of-charge. After installation, no Internet connection is needed to use ARIS Express.\n\nARIS Express uses a mechanism provided by Java Web Start to automatically update the application as soon as a new version becomes available and the user is connected to the Internet during startup. There are reports that this automated update failed while upgrading from version 1.0 to version 2.0.\n\nAs ARIS Express is based on Java Web Start, it can be installed on any platform supported by Java. The ARIS Community and other Internet sources have reports of successful deployment of ARIS Express on other operating systems than Microsoft Windows. However, ARIS Express is officially supported only on Microsoft Windows.\n\nA quick reference sheet is available for ARIS Express. The poster shows all supported diagrams plus the most important modelling concepts for each supported modelling language.\n\nARIS Express contains a hidden game, a so-called Easter Egg. The game can be started by clicking several times on the product logo in the about dialog. Highscores achieved in the game can be submitted to a special page in ARIS Community.\n\nA Firefox Personas is available for ARIS Express.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53134476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53134476", "title": "Access to public information in Montenegro", "text": "Access to public information in Montenegro\n\nAccess to public information and freedom of information (FOI) refer to the right of access to information held by public bodies also known as \"right to know\". Access to public information is considered of fundamental importance for the effective functioning of democratic systems, as it enhances governments' and public officials' accountability, boosting people participation and allowing their informed participation into public life. The fundamental premise of the right of access to public information is that the information held by governmental institutions is in principle public and may be concealed only on the basis of legitimate reasons which should be detailed in the law.\n\nIn Montenegro, access to information is a right guaranteed by the Constitution and regulated under the law. Montenegro first adopted the Law on Free Access to Information in 2005; in 2013 a new law entered into force, providing a better standard of protection for freedom of information than the previous legal act. However, despite some positive developments achieved with the adoption of the new Law, Montenegro still has problems with its implementation.\n\nRecently, Montenegro started the process of reforming the current law: a draft proposal was formulated by the Culture of Ministry in 2016 following some pressure from the European Union to align Montenegrin legislation with EU standards.\n\nThe Constitution of Montenegro states, in Article 51, that everyone shall have the right of access to public information held by state authorities and organisations exercising public functions. Furthermore, the 2013 Law on Free Access to Information establishes a precise procedure for obtaining public information. The law entitles any natural or legal person the right to access information held in any form by state and local authorities, public companies and other entities which exercise public functions. Public authorities have 15 working days for deciding on the disclosure of a required information.\n\nThe new law introduced a new supervisory body, called Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and Free Access to Information which works on the appeal process of freedom of information requests. Another positive development in the 2013 law is the introduction of fines to be imposed upon public bodies which fail to fulfill with their duties with regard to access to information.\n\nAccording to the 2016 European Commission Progress Report on Montenegro, the law on Access to public information lack effective monitoring and supervision. According to the newspaper Vijesti, the experience of journalists and NGOs in the country shows that, despite FOI legal provisions, in practice it is difficult to get information of public importance. \n\nIn the last years the proportion of requests refused by public authorities in Montenegro improved from 24% in 2014 to 18% in 2015. Also, the 2016 budget of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and Access to Information was increased by 50%. The limited capacity and resources of the Agency was an issue of concern for some NGOs advocating for access to information.\n\nIn 2015, out of a total of 4.434 requests for access to information, the information requested was not provided in 805 cases. The Agency for Personal Data Protection and Free Access to Information received a total of 1.431 complaints in 2015. The majority of cases received by the Agency concerned administrative silence: in these cases the request remained unanswered.\n\nThe majority of FOI requests, around 70%, are filed by NGOs, among which stands the NGO MANS. This data shows the low awareness and knowledge by the general public of the right of access to information and its legal provisions. In the majority of cases applicants are get the required information with large delays, beyond the time frame established by the law, and often after having filed a complaint to the Ombudsbam.\n\nAnother issue of concern is that court decisions on cases concerning access to information are not effectively enforced. The report of the EC also points out that in some cases public authorities in Montenegro seem to abuse the possibility of declaring requested documents confidential in order to avoid their disclosure. Indeed, according to the NGO MANS, the law includes a series of unnecessary reasons for exceptions for limiting disclosure. The formulation of the exceptions enshrined in the law seems to be too vague and too general, thus giving room for public institutions to interpret it in a way that restricts access to information.\n\nAnother reason of concern is the high percentage of requests that remain unanswered.\n\nAccording to the Balkan Investigative Reporting Network (BIRN), problems in realizing the right of access to public information arise in particular when journalists and NGOs seek information about the privatization process or seek information that could potentially reveal cases of corruption or illegal activity. According to the NGO MANS, the respect of the law on access to public information is particularly problematic when it comes to make public information concerning enterprises where the State owns the majority of shares.\n\nThe EC Progress Report recommends to enhance the implementation of the law especially in corruption-prone cases.\n\n"}
{"id": "501768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=501768", "title": "Auto magma object", "text": "Auto magma object\n\nIn mathematics, a magma object, can be defined in any category formula_1 equipped with a distinguished bifunctor formula_2. Since Mag, the category of magmas, has cartesian products, ergo we can consider magma objects in the category Mag. These are called auto magma objects. There's a more direct definition: an auto magma object is a set formula_3 together with a pair of 2-place operations formula_4 satisfying formula_5. A medial magma is the special case where these operations are equal.\n"}
{"id": "44448769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44448769", "title": "Charlotte Three", "text": "Charlotte Three\n\nThe Charlotte Three, consisting of T.J. Reddy, James Grant, and Charles Parker, were a group of men arrested and convicted in Charlotte, North Carolina for the burning of Lazy B Stables, a horse stable. The burning took place on September 24, 1968, one year after Lazy B Stables was integrated. All three men were arrested and implicated in the arson on December 1971, a full three years after the incident. The men were eventually convicted for their presumed actions, and were unsuccessful in having their appeals accepted, with the Supreme Court rejecting their motions. They were all well known radical activists in Charlotte and some people claimed their arrest was aimed at stopping their political motives. Many observers believed that this case was a representation of the still heavily racist Southern United States of the 1970s, and the various underhanded methods prosecutors were willing to utilize to obtain convictions against African Americans. The Charlotte Three were victims in the eyes of some, of an American South that was still reeling from widespread integration and general mistrust in Black affairs. The men were held against their will incorrectly not for crimes that they did not commit, but because of the social change they worked hard to attain. Finally, in 1979, North Carolina Jim Hunt commuted all three men's sentences after a vigorous campaign by state, national, and international activists on their behalf.\n\nCharlotte, North Carolina had a reputation as a forward-thinking city in that it wasn't supposed to have the same racial discrimination that the cities in the Deep South had. Charlotte was called a \"New South city\" but many of its residents still harbored the same racial discrimination, and \"clung to Jim Crow segregation\" as strongly as residents of Mobile, Alabama and Jackson, Mississippi, stereotypical anti-black cities. African American dissent towards racism was however very prevalent in Charlotte, as the landmark case Brown v. Board of Education arose from a school district around Charlotte, and Reginald Hawkins spearheaded protests against segregation in the cities public and private institutions. When residents in Charlotte in January 1965 filed the court case Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education, the car of civil rights leader \"Julius Chambers was blown to bits\" and a year later, \"bombs exploded at the homes of four more civil rights leaders\".\n\nOne of the residents of Charlotte who had experienced much racial discrimination in his lifetime was T.J. Reddy, who was enrolled in the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. T.J. had been a poet and playwright who used his talents to help him pursue his goal of being an urban activist. He was with his girlfriend Vicky Minar, when he \"happened upon a particularly humiliating experience of racial injustice\" at the Lazy B Stables. In September 1967, Reddy, his girlfriend, and a group of friends went to Lazy B to enjoy their free time by horseback riding. When the group arrived at the stable, they were rejected from being able to ride since they were black. Since Reddy did not want to make a scene, he decided to leave and not do anything about the social injustice he just encountered.\n\nAfter \"following traditional protest strategies\", the group returned mixed, with whites and blacks, and were allowed to ride the horses the next day. Reddy was a man who did not like to be treated unfairly or in a derogatory manner, as evidenced by his poetry \"ain't nothing funny bout a cracker/calling me a n*****\". However, he would not seek to create fights when unnecessary, as he liked to \"keep his nose/just above\" implying that he would not resort to arguments when the matter was cleared. Charles Parker, another black man who accompanied Reddy to the stable, was able to ride in public while being watched by the media, thus Reddy believed the matter to be closed. Reddy left the incident because in his mind; \"management had a change of heart and was willing to allow black people to ride\". Parker had been an honors student at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte and was engaged in antiwar activism through his clubs and activities, and was linked to the movement of \"black consciousness\".\nAnother Civil Rights activist who was charged and convicted in the Lazy B Stables case was Dr. James Earl Grant, a dedicated activist against racial discrimination. Though Grant was from Hartford, Connecticut and received his doctorate degree from Penn State, he was very active in the South's racial playing field, especially that of North Carolina's. On May 11, 1970, three white males murdered a black man, Henry Marrow, a father of three children who lived in Oxford, North Carolina. When news spread that Henry had been murdered, Blacks from across the country, along with Grant, decided they were fed up and organized protests. Most wanted to obtain justice through the tried and true legal system, however a group of \"black Vietnam veterans\" took matters into their own hands and decided to bomb white businesses in Oxford. Neither Grant nor Reddy were involved in the acts of violence against the white owned businesses, but had their fates sealed when a police officer decided to pull over a car driven by two African Americans while exiting Oxford.\n\nOn May 15, 1970, police officers in Oxford, NC arrested Alfred Hood and David Washington for possessing \"seven sticks of dynamite, two rifles, and a pistol\". The two were friends affiliated with James Grant and told authorities later that Grant had told the two to drive up to Charlotte with their supplies. The City Manager of Charlotte, Ragland, remembered Grant as someone who \"was an expert in starting fires…he could start a fire in a rainstorm\". Hood and Washington were subsequently jailed for possessing such deadly weapons, however after a short period of time, the two \"jumped bail, and fled to Canada\" where they were eventually returned on warrants. When the two were apprehended a second time, they decided to cut a deal with the prosecutor that was perceived in the black community as indicative of the social climate of the time period. The men had their general living expenditures paid for, and after their testimony, would be relocated completely all on the government's dime.\n\nWhat Hood and Washington offered for this unique package was the ability to bring in one of the most influential leaders for the movement of reducing racism, James Grant. They testified in April 1972 that Grant had \"encouraged them to skip bond\" and even helped them \"to cross the border into Canada\" so that the two could not be extradited back to the United States. The prosecutor had believed that Grant had \"trained these little kids…they were the ones doing the big stuff\" while Grant was able to sit \"behind the scenes\". Grant ended up being convicted of conspiracy and helping out fugitives, and was sentenced to ten years in a federal penitentiary.\n\nSince the prosecutor wanted more from Hood and Washington, he pressed them further, and allegedly started to offer the two men cash for their support in bringing justice to the Charlotte Three for their presumed role in the burning of Lazy B Stables. Assistant Attorney General Robert C. Mardian \"approved a deal giving Hood and Washington cash payments of four thousand dollars each\" which was to help persuade the two men to say what the prosecutor wanted to hear. What the prosecutor wanted was to be able obtain a conviction of the Charlotte Three who were all civil rights leaders and proponents for the end of racism in Charlotte. The three were indicted in January 1972 and this set off a racial firestorm.\n\nThe prosecutor however denies this claim and rather implies that Hood and Washington were willing to testify against the Charlotte Three on their own without any outside pressures or rewards. The prosecutor asked the pair \"whose driving around in a Cadillac while you're stuck in here\" and that the leaders are not doing anything while the pair are \"stuck in here paying the price\". The FBI also believed the truth of what Hood and Washington said in that Charlotte FBI Agent Koon wanted to transform Grant into an informant on his other troublemaking friends, but that did not end up panning out.\n\nWith three black defendants, the lawyers for the Charlotte Three requested that since the grand jury \"excludes blacks from participation since it is derived from voter registration laws\", the case should be dropped. Judge Snepp however refuted that point, as he claimed that blacks could register to vote as they pleased. The defendants' lawyers saw this as a systematic attempt to stop blacks from being able to register to vote. At the time, black voters had to take voter tests, unlike their white counterparts, implying an unfair situation. Similarly, the prosecutor's office decided to appoint no black or Jewish jurors, with a near deaf old black lady as the lone exception. Since the defense had to waste all their challenges and objections that they are legally allowed to have by removing clearly incompetent jury members, they were left at a considerable disadvantage in the courtroom.\n\nReporters and journalists questioned the evidence and workings of the case. Even though the white prosecutor's office did follow all the laws and did not do anything illegal, \"the court empaneled a seriously prejudiced jury of white Southern Baptists\". During the trial, the only real piece of evidence other than the falsified witness testimony by Hood and Washington was a picture of a bottle that was presumed to be an unused firebomb. This bottle however was never actually placed into the evidence files of the case since it was mysteriously \"lost\" by the fire marshals, and that the \"original photograph was staged\". Though there seemed to be very little evidence to support the prosecutor's claims, the jury returned a guilty verdict within one hour of the case's arguments ending. T.J. Reddy was sentenced to 20 years, James Grant got 25 years, and Charles Parker received 10 years (8).\n\nThe sentencing of the Charlotte Three emphasized a clear dichotomy: the white jurors wanted to be fair in trial, but were worried of the social repercussions that would come about from supporting these black men. There was a fear of a \"black revolution\" in the South at that time, and by imprisoning the leaders of black movements across the South, whites were able to contain that movement and stymie it. Many saw the decision as one that favored the persecuting of black leaders for their black revolution ideas, in that Judge Snepp sentenced Grant to 25 years due to his education.\n\nJudge Snepp said that since Grant was so educated, with a doctorate, he \"showed no gratitude to society\" and since he was so well educated, was \"an extremely dangerous revolutionary beyond rehabilitation.\" Reddy was in the eyes of Snepp, dangerous since he was a poet and able to use his talents to appeal to the heart of blacks and revolutionize their ways of thinking. Snepp gave Parker the lightest sentence since he was not deemed as harmful as the rest, as Parker was thought to be an \"easily led young Black dupe.\"\n\nSnepp knew that Hood and Washington \"are not exactly A-1 citizens\" yet he decided to use their testimony as a key component in the conviction of the Charlotte Three. The credibility given to Washington and his statements about Grant and the Charlotte Three were not questioned during the trial, but should have been. He was the \"prime suspect in five murders in the Charlotte area\" and yet his testimony was used to put men with clean criminal backgrounds in jail. With crime rates rising, famed philosopher Angela Davis's publicized fight with the FBI, George Jackson's \"meteoric rise to militant fame as…Black Party Minister of Defense\", and the University of Wisconsin's math building bombing, the crimes of Washington were overlooked. They were not taken seriously enough since the aforementioned crimes were politically motivated, however Washington's were not, and as put by the District Attorney Tom Moore; \"sometimes you must go to hell to get the devil\". Washington was said to have used \"heroin, LSD, and large quantities of alcohol and marijuana\" which cast considerable doubt on his credibility.\n\nThough the Charlotte Three had been convicted and imprisoned, the general support from Charlotte and the members in the men's' lives never stopped. In the Herald Journal, Grant's father mentions that there were \"vigils…held in front of the historic Old State House in Hartford…to keep the case alive\". The men felt they were representing how racially charged Charlotte had become, and its residents did not want the city to be tainted by corrupt judicial officers. In the Black Panther newspaper, a letter campaign by the North Carolina Political Prisoners Committee started to prosper. Local residents were urged to send letters in support of the Charlotte Three to Governor Hunt of North Carolina in an effort to have the men's sentences commuted.\n\nAdditionally, Reddy received support from his fellow poets, such as Sandra Beck of Charlotte who wrote that she had met \"few people so creatively and constructively oriented\" and who gave his encouragement to many \"young writers and authors\". Ironically, Reddy was labeled as one who was constructively oriented and creative, yet he was accused of demolishing a construction through the brute force method of arson, which has no creativity to it whatsoever. He also had the whole support of the state's art community \"who strongly backed the black poet\".\n\nJames Grant had received support from individuals in both the North and the South, including Connecticut Governor Ella Grasso, who called her counterpart in North Carolina on Grant's behalf. Grant also had the support of famous Southern prison rights leader L.C. Dorsey who claimed that Grant's imprisonment was a result of wanting to disagree with \"a senseless war, racial oppression at home, and the plight of those who had taxation without representation\".\n\nGrant was eventually granted parole from Governor Hunt of North Carolina reducing his sentence, and Reddy and Parker were also set free. When Grant learned that he was about to be freed, since he had \"made progress towards rehabilitation\" in the eyes of the Governor instead of a full pardon, he said that \"people have paid higher prices\" than he has, and that he is fine with whatever decision he is granted. The sentences were not pardoned however by Governor Hunt, but rather commuted, implying that the men were still guilty of the burning in the eyes of the judicial system.\n\nThe Charlotte Three case was an event that epitomized the larger issues of politics, race, and the civil rights movement in the South. The commuting of the sentences for the men may not have actually been purely due to the reasons publicly stated, but instead for hidden political ones. In 1979, an election year, there was a lot of turmoil and Governor Hunt and the Democratic party were worried about the backlash that would ensue if the men were still imprisoned at the time of the election. Herbert N. Lape who was serving as the vice-chairman of the North Carolina state democratic party stated in a letter to Hunt that many people in the state view \"the Charlotte Three [case] as [a] primarily white witch [hunt] that involved racial bigotry\". A secretary by the name of Joseph Grimsley also stated in a memo to Governor Hunt, \"[the] state's repressive image is beginning to spill over in this administration to yours personally\".\n\nThe administration was in a position where it had to save face by reducing the sentences or else face the possibility of losing control to another party. The judge had originally given out the long sentences because he wanted to show that it was \"the smashing of a dangerous Black revolution plot\". He hoped to set an example of the men, as he was worried of more of these plots in the future.\n\nThe case of the Charlotte Three was not something that was entirely unique; rather, as historian John Schutz argued, it was the ordinary in the mid 1900s South. By persecuting \"black leaders for conventional crimes\", the state could follow \"civilized\" methods that would instead of cause violence, put the leader in jail where he could no longer do any more leading. Expert Raymond Michalowski believes these persecutions of blacks were similar to those of the KKK or other \"night riders of decades past\" but instead of illegal henchmen carrying out the attacks, legal judges and prosecutors were doing so in the courts. By charging the leaders with crimes, the state was able to make it seem like the leaders were not as viable as they claimed to be. This helped to mute some of the public support the leaders may have originally garnered. Though the South seemed to have overtly fixed its race problem after the passage of federal civil rights legislation in 1964-65, it was covertly persecuting Black revolutionary leaders. The persecutions were not taking place out on the streets through public lynching as in times past, but instead through illegal backdoor deals supported by the judicial system.\n\n"}
{"id": "17829207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17829207", "title": "Clark Martell", "text": "Clark Martell\n\nClark Reid Martell (born December 23, 1960) is an American white supremacist, the former leader of Chicago Area SkinHeads (CASH), which was founded by six skinheads under his leadership in year 1987 the first organized neo-Nazi white power skinhead group in the United States. The group was also called Romantic Violence, and was the first US distributor of Skrewdriver records and tapes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1393633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1393633", "title": "Comfort zone", "text": "Comfort zone\n\nA comfort zone is a psychological state in which things feel familiar to a person and they are at ease and in control of their environment, experiencing low levels of anxiety and stress. In this zone, a steady level of performance is possible.\n\nBardwick defines the term as \"a behavioral state where a person operates in an anxiety-neutral position.\" Brown describes it as \"Where our uncertainty, scarcity and vulnerability are minimized—where we believe we'll have access to enough love, food, talent, time, admiration. Where we feel we have some control.\"\n\nStepping out of a comfort zone raises anxiety and generates a stress response. This results in an enhanced level of concentration and focus. \n\nWhite (2009) refers to the \"optimal performance zone\", in which performance can be enhanced by some amount of stress. Yerkes (1907) who reported, \"Anxiety improves performance until a certain optimum level of arousal has been reached. Beyond that point, performance deteriorates as higher levels of anxiety are attained.\" Beyond the optimum performance zone, lies the \"danger zone\" in which performance declines rapidly under the influence of greater anxiety.\n\nHowever, stress in general can have an adverse effect on decision making: Fewer alternatives are tried out and more familiar strategies are used, even if they are not helpful anymore.\n\nOptimal performance management requires maximizing time in the optimum performance zone.\n\n"}
{"id": "20341886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20341886", "title": "Computer-aided lean management", "text": "Computer-aided lean management\n\nComputer-aided lean management, in business management, is a methodology of developing and using software-controlled, lean systems integration. Its goal is to drive innovation towards cost and cycle-time savings. It attempts to create an efficient use of capital and resources through the development and use of one integrated system model to run a business's planning, engineering, design, maintenance, and operations.\n\nComputer-Aided Lean Management (CALM) is a management philosophy that uses computational software to reduce risk and inefficiencies. CALM acts on uncertainties and business inefficiencies to increase profitability through the use of computational decision-making tools that enable opportunities for additional value creation. It is based on the application of software to enable continuous improvement through an Integrated System Model (ISM) of the business’s physical assets, business processes, and machine learning. This unique integration of software applications using lean principles was developed in the aerospace industry and has migrated to the energy industry.\n\nThe creation of an integrated system model removes the barriers posed by the silos or stovepipes inherent in the departmentalization of most companies. Integration enables lean uses of information for the creation of actionable knowledge. CALM strives to create such a lean management approach to running the company through the rigors of software enforcement. From this software enforcement comes clear policy and procedures that are adhered to, activity-based costing, measurement of effectiveness, and the capability of using advanced algorithms for dramatic improvements in optimization of resources. CALM creates business capabilities through software to enable technology application, streamlining of processes, and a lean organizational structure. The methodology is based on a commonsense approach for running a business, by measuring of actions taken and using those measurements to design improved processes in order to drive out inefficiencies.\n\nCALM was inspired by lean processes and techniques that were already dominant management technologies with a wide diversity of applications and successes. Motorola and General Electric (GE) had been known for the concepts of Six Sigma; Boeing had been managing mass (using modular and flexible assembly options), and Toyota put it all together into a truly lean business through its Toyota Production System. Boeing in turn took the Toyota model and added computer-aided enforcement of lean methodologies throughout the manufacturing process.\n\nOne of the major sources for CALM's outgrowth was integrated definition (IDEF) modeling in aerospace manufacturing that was pioneered by the U.S. Air Force in the 1970s. IDEF is a methodology designed to model the end-to-end decisions, actions, and activities of an organization or system so that costs, performance, and cycle times can be optimized. IDEF methods have been adapted for wider use in automotive, aerospace, pharmaceuticals, and even software development industries. IDEF methods serve as a starting point to understand lean management through semantic data modeling. The IDEF process begins by mapping the as-is functions of an enterprise, creating a graphical model, or road map, that shows what controls each important function, who performs it, what resources are required for carrying it out, what it produces, how much it costs, and what relationships it has to other functions of the organization. IDEF simulations of the to-be enterprise have been found to be efficient at streamlining and modernizing both companies and governmental agencies.\n\nPerhaps the best-developed evolution of the IDEF model beyond Toyota was at Boeing. Their project life-cycle process has grown into a rigorous software system that links people, tasks, tools, materials, and the environmental impact of any newly planned project, before any building is allowed to begin. Routinely, more than half of the time for any given project is spent building the precedence diagrams, or three-dimensional process maps, integrating with outside suppliers, and designing the implementation plan-all on the computer. Once real activity is initiated, an action tracker is used to monitor inputs and outputs versus the schedule and delivery metrics in real time throughout the organization. When the execution of a new airplane design begins, it is so well organized that it consistently cuts both costs and build time in half for each successive generation of airframe. And, of course, it is paperless. Boeing created a complex lean management process called 'define and control airplane configuration/manufacturing resource management' (DCAC/MRM). The process was built with the help of the operations research and computer sciences departments of the University of Pittsburgh. The manufacture of the Boeing 777 was ultimately a success, and it became the precursor to succeeding generations of CALM at Boeing. Boeing is four generations beyond that airplane now, and they have succeeded in cutting the time and cost for each new generation of airplane. Boeing’s successes in conversion from inefficient silos of manufacturing to a lean and efficient operation have become legendary.\n\nThe methodology of CALM has recently been applied to field orientated infrastructure based businesses with highly interdependent systems, such as electric utilities where a smart grid concept is being researched and developed. The management of infrastructure-based industries like oil, gas, electricity, water, transportation, and renewables requires massive investments in interdependent, physical infrastructure, as well as simultaneous attention to disparate market forces. In infrastructure businesses that manage field assets, uncertainty is the prime impediment to profitability, rather than the maintenance of efficient supply chains or the management of factory assembly lines. These businesses are dominated by risk from uncertainties such as weather, market variations, transportation disruptions, government actions, logistic difficulties, geology, and asset reliability. CALM has been applied to deal with these types of infrastructure based challenges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41887454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41887454", "title": "Dark Enlightenment", "text": "Dark Enlightenment\n\nThe Dark Enlightenment, or the neoreactionary movement—also known simply as neoreaction and abbreviated NRx by its proponents—is an anti-democratic and reactionary movement that considers itself to be the antithesis to the Enlightenment. It broadly rejects egalitarianism and the view that history shows inevitable progression towards greater liberty and enlightenment, thus it is in part a reaction against \"Whig historiography\". The movement favors a return to older societal constructs and forms of government, including support for monarchism and other forms of leadership such as a \"neocameralist CEO\" of a joint-stock republic, coupled with a right-libertarian, conservative or economic nationalist approach to economics. Proponents generally also espouse socially conservative views on such matters as gender roles, race relations and migration.\n\nA 2013 \"TechCrunch\" article describes \"neoreactionaries\" as a term applied to and sometimes a self-description of an informal \"community of bloggers\" and political theorists who have been active since the 2000s. Steve Sailer and Hans-Hermann Hoppe are described as \"contemporary forerunners\" of the movement and neoreactionaries are also said to draw influence from philosophers such as Thomas Carlyle and Julius Evola. Writing in \"Taki's Magazine\", Nicholas James Pell notes that besides American computer scientist Curtis Yarvin and English author and philosopher Nick Land, other prominent NRx voices include \"monarchist transhumanist Michael Anissimov, Catholic anarchist Bryce Laliberte, post-libertarian escape artist Jim, and the snarky satirists of \"Radish\"\".\n\nThe Dark Enlightenment has been described as an early school of thought in the alt-right. Some critics have also labeled the movement as \"neo-fascist\". A 2016 \"New York Magazine\" piece notes: \"Neoreaction has a number of different strains, but perhaps the most important is a form of post-libertarian futurism that, realizing that libertarians aren't likely to win any elections, argues against democracy in favor of authoritarian forms of government\". Yarvin, for example, argues that a libertarian democracy is \"simply an engineering contradiction, like a flying whale or a water-powered car\".\n\nSome of the impetus for the neoreactionary movement comes from libertarians like Peter Thiel as indicated by Nick Land's essay \"The Dark Enlightenment\", which noted how libertarian thinkers at an April 2009 \"Cato Unbound\" discussion expressed skepticism about the compatibility of freedom and democracy.\n\nYarvin's preferred system—named neocameralism after Frederick William I of Prussia's system of Prussian cameralism—is a system in which a business owns the country, which is structured as a joint stock corporation divvied up into shares and run by a CEO to maximize profit.\n\nPeter Thiel and Patri Friedman have backed the Seasteading Institute as one possible way of building fiefdoms free of outside regulation and law.\n\nNeoreactionary Michael Perilloux proposes that President Donald Trump seize more power by canceling the United States Constitution, declaring martial law and replacing the government with The Trump Organization. Similarly, Google engineer Justine Tunney circulated a petition to appoint Google chairman Eric Schmidt as CEO of America.\n\nSome neoreactionary futurists focus more on the use of technology to defeat the state, for example, through transhumanist accelerationism in which the select few free themselves from the bonds of the state by evolving into superintelligent human-computer hybrids. One proponent of such ideas is Michael Anissimov, an advocate of eugenics, who in the words of Mark O'Connell \"has in recent years basically cornered the white-supremacy–singularity crossover market\" and become \"something of a pariah from the transhumanist movement\". Rejecting the notion that all humans are created equal, Anissimov believes that there are already disparities in intelligence between existing races and that transhuman technologies will create further disparities in power. He claims that aristocratic systems are more financially stable and less wasteful than democratic or communist systems.\n\nDylan Matthews argues that neoreaction draws on the racialist, traditionalist and isolationist arguments of paleoconservatism as well as paleoconservatives' belief that the mainstream is trying to crush them. Differences between the two movements are that paleoconservatives are more religious and have more faith in the United States Constitution and republican ideals generally. Rick Searle draws parallels between neoreactionaries and late 19th century figures like Friedrich Nietzsche, Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Charles Maurras and Vilfredo Pareto. George Orwell also used the term \"neo-reactionary\" in an As I Please column for \"Tribune\" in 1943.\n\nIn 2007 and 2008, Curtis Yarvin—writing under the pen name Mencius Moldbug—articulated what would develop into Dark Enlightenment thinking. Yarvin's theories were later the subject of Nick Land, who first coined the term \"Dark Enlightenment\" in his essay of the same name. The term \"Dark Enlightenment\" is a play-on-words for the knowledge supposedly gained in the Enlightenment. According to Land: \"Where the progressive enlightenment sees political ideals, the dark enlightenment sees appetites\"—on the view that the tendency of sovereign power (in democracies) is to devour society.\n\nYarvin had originally called his ideology formalism (a term inspired from legal formalism), but Arnold Kling used the term \"The Neo-Reactionaries\" as a noun in July 2010 to describe Moldbug and fellows and the term was quickly adopted by the subculture. According to Adam Riggio, the embryo of the neoreactionary movement lived in the community pages of LessWrong. \"Social Matter\" is a major online publication and thought machine for neoreaction.\n\nNeoreactionaries have often declined reporters' requests for interviews, explaining that journalists—as manufacturers of consent—are their mortal enemy. When \"The Atlantic\" political affairs reporter Rosie Gray attempted to interview neoreactionary leaders, Yarvin suggested she instead \"speak directly to my WH cutout / cell leader\"—a sarcastic reference to widely reported yet unsubstantiated rumors that Yarvin had ties to White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon—while Nick B. Steves told her she was ill-suited to write about neo-reaction because \"115 IQ people are not generally well equipped to summarize 160 IQ people\".\n\nNeoreactionary writings, particularly those by Yarvin and Land, are sometimes viewed as so verbose, dense, discursive, detached and \"edgy\" as to be inaccessible and self-marginalizing.\n\nRyan Summers wrote that neoreactionary imagery is often infused with hyper-masculine ideas of men, such as tanks, spacecraft, Greek Gods and soldiers with guns.\n\nSome consider the Dark Enlightenment as an early school of thought in the alt-right, or as its most theoretically minded branch. In particular, one philosopher with Landian ideas, Jason Reza Jorjani, co-founded AltRight.com and spoke at the 2016 National Policy Institute conference led by white supremacist Richard Spencer. Some critics have also labeled the Dark Enlightenment as \"neo-fascist\" or as \"an acceleration of capitalism to a fascist point\", although Land argues this is inaccurate because fascism \"is a mass anti-capitalist movement\". Land states:\nJames Kirchick notes that although neoreactionary thinkers disdain the masses and claim to despise populism and people more generally, what ties them to the rest of the alt-right is their unapologetically racist element, their shared misanthropy and their resentment of mismanagement by the ruling elites. Duesterberg observes: \"As a rule the alt right is scattered, anonymous and obscure—thriving, as the curious metaphor has it, in the 'dark corners of the internet.' By contrast, neoreaction is centralized and public: darkness enlightened\".\n\nA criticism of neoreaction is that its pessimistic appraisal of progressivism's results dismisses many advances that have been made, including greater freedom for women, racial minorities and homosexuals; increased security for the elderly and unemployed; greater access to health care by the poor; steep declines in world poverty; improved air quality; greater religious tolerance and racial integration; lower crime rates; and an absence of world wars since 1945. They also point to the culture of London, whose population is 40 percent nonwhite; and the high standard of living and continental peace in the European Union. Another criticism is that global manufacturing patterns limit the economic independence that sovereign states can have from one another.\n\nSome of the critics who felt the Dark Enlightenment's pessimistic assessment was unsupported by economic data formed the Grey Enlightenment.\n\nRyan T. Summers observes: \"For the most part, neoreactionaries do not emphasize anti-Semitic views as other alt-right counterparts\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1087977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1087977", "title": "Durotaxis", "text": "Durotaxis\n\nDurotaxis is a form of cell migration in which cells are guided by rigidity gradients, which arise from differential structural properties of the extracellular matrix (ECM). Most normal cells migrate up rigidity gradients (in the direction of greater stiffness).\n\nThe process of durotaxis requires a cell to actively sense the environment, process the mechanical stimulus, and execute a response. Originally, this was believed to be an emergent metazoan property, as the phenomenon requires a complex sensory loop that is dependent on the communication of many different cells. However, as the wealth of relevant scientific literature grew in the late 1980s and throughout the 1990s, it became apparent that single cells possess the ability to do the same. The first observations of durotaxis in isolated cells were that mechanical stimuli could cause the initiation and elongation of axons in the sensory and brain neurons of chicks and induce motility in previously stationary fish epidermal keratocytes. ECM stiffness was also noted to influence cytoskeletal stiffness, fibronectin fibril assembly, the strength of integrin-cytoskeletal interactions, morphology and motility rate, all of which were known influence cell migration.\n\nWith information from the previous observations, Lo and colleagues formulated the hypothesis that individual cells can detect substrate stiffness by a process of active tactile exploration in which cells exert contractile forces and measure the resulting deformation in the substrate. Supported by their own experiments, this team coined the term \"durotaxis\" in their paper in the \"Biophysical Journal\" in the year 2000. More recent research supports the previous observations and the principle of durotaxis, with continued evidence for cell migration up rigidity gradients and stiffness-dependent morphological changes \n\nThe rigidity of the ECM is significantly different across cell types; for example, it ranges from the soft ECM of brain tissue to that of rigid bone or the stiff cell wall of plant cells. This difference in rigidity is a result of the qualitative and quantitative biochemical properties of the ECM or in other words, the concentration and categories of the various macromolecules that form the ECM meshwork. Though the ECM is composed of many intracellularly-synthesized components - including a number of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) and fibrous proteins such as fibronectin, laminin, collagen, and elastin - it is the latter two fibers that are most influential in defining the mechanical properties of the ECM.\n\nCollagen is the fibrous protein that gives the ECM its tensile strength, or rigidity. Elastin - as its name suggests - is a highly elastic protein with an important role in tissues that need to return to their original positions after deformation, such as skin, blood vessels, and lungs. The relative concentrations of these two main determinants, along with other less influential matrix components, determine the rigidity of the ECM. For example, collagen concentration has been reported to be correlated to matrix stiffness, both \"in vivo\" and \"in vitro\" (gels).\n\nIn biological research, the rigidity (or stiffness) is commonly measured using Young's modulus of elasticity, the ratio of stress to strain along an axis, in Pascals. Thus, a material with a high Young's modulus is very rigid. The most precise and well-established method to measure Young's modulus of a tissue relies on instruments - such as the Instron load cell device - that directly apply a mechanical load and measure the resulting deformation. Now, the Young's modulus of a tissue can be easily and accurately estimated without excision using a variety of elastography techniques. These methods induce distortion in the tissue and measure the mechanical properties, usually with ultrasound or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).\n\nYoung's modulus has been repeatedly used to characterize the mechanical properties of many tissues in the human body. The stiffness of animal tissues varies over several orders of magnitude, for example:\n\nMatrices of varying stiffness are commonly engineered for experimental and therapeutic purposes (e.g. collagen matrices for wound healing). Durotactic gradients are simply made by creating 2-dimensional substrates out of polymer (e.g. acrylamide or polydimethylsiloxane) in which the stiffness is controlled by cross-linking density, which in turn is controlled by cross-linker concentration. The polymer must be coated with a material that the cell can adhere to, such as collagen or fibronectin. The gradients themselves are often synthesized as hydrogels using microfluidic gradient generators followed by photopolymerization.\n\nAn advancement to this technique is the use of 3D matrices, which are able to guide cell migration in conditions that are more relatable to the natural three dimensional environment of the cell.\n\nThe site of cellular contact with the extracellular matrix is the focal adhesion, a large, dynamic protein complex that connects the cytoskeleton to the ECM fibers through several organized layers of interacting proteins. Integrins are the outermost proteins and the ones that bind directly to the ECM ligands. However, focal adhesions are quite more than simple anchors - their proteins have many roles in signaling. These proteins, such as focal adhesion kinase (FAK), talin, vinculin, paxillin, and α-actinin, interact with small GTPases (Rho, Rac, Cdc42) and other signaling pathways in order to relay even small changes in matrix stiffness and consequently respond with changes in cell shape, actomyosin contractility, and cytoskeletal organization. As a result, these changes can cause a cell to rearrange its cytoskeleton in order to facilitate directional migration.\n\nA cell's cytoskeleton is a constantly fluctuating network of polymers whose organization greatly depends on the physical environment of the cell. At the focal adhesions, a cell exerts a traction force. In other words, it pulls on the ECM. Thus, the cell maintains a mechanical homeostasis between ECM stiffness and cytoskeletal tension across its focal adhesions. This homeostasis is dynamic, as the focal adhesion complexes are continuously constructed, remodeled, and disassembled. This leads to changes in signal transduction and downstream cellular responses. Cell signaling is a product of both the physical and biochemical properties of the ECM and interaction between these two pathways is crucial to understand cellular responses. For example, bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) - a growth factor - is unable to induce osteogenesis under insufficient cytoskeletal tension.\n\nThe source of cytoskeletal traction is actomyosin contractility. Increased external stiffness leads to a signal transduction cascade that activates the small GTPase Rho and Rho-associated kinase (ROCK). ROCK, in turn, controls myosin light chain phosphorylation, an event that triggers myosin ATPase activity and the shortening of actin fibers, causing contraction and pulling on the ECM. Though the precise pathway that connects ECM stiffness to ROCK activity is unknown, the observation of increased traction in response to increased ECM stiffness is sufficient to explain the phenomenon of durotaxis. The stronger mechanical feedback would pull the cell towards the stiffer region and cause a bias in directional movement and have other consequences on cytoskeletal and focal adhesion organization.\n\nConsequently, durotaxis must rely on continuous sampling of ECM stiffness over space and time in a process called rigidity mechanosensing. Recent research has revealed that individual focal adhesions do not necessarily exert stable traction forces in response to unchanging ECM stiffness. In fact, while some individual focal adhesions may display stable traction forces, others exhibit tugging traction in the manner of a repeated cycle of tugging and release. The properties of focal adhesions - whether stable or tugging - are independent of their neighbors and as such, each focal adhesion acts autonomously. This tugging traction has been shown to be dispensable to other forms of cell migration, such as chemotaxis and haptotaxis, but required for durotaxis. The focal adhesion proteins (FAK/paxillin/vinculin) - and their phosphorylation-dependent interactions as well as their asymetrical distribution within the cell (i.e. YAP activation and nuclear translocation via stiffness activated pFAK) - are required in order to exhibit high traction and tugging traction across a wide range of ECM rigidities. Furthermore, a reduction in focal adhesion tension by transferring cells to softer ECM or by inhibiting ROCK results in focal adhesion switching from stable to tugging states. Thus, rigidity mechanosensing allows a cell to sample matrix stiffness at the resolution of focal adhesion spacing within a cell (~1-5μm).\n\nThe integration of biochemical and mechanical cues may allow fine-tuning of cell migration. However, the physiological reasoning behind durotaxis—and specifically the tendency of cells to migrate up rigidity gradients—is unknown.\n\nThe most prevalent and accurate modern method for measuring the traction forces that cells exert on the substrate relies on traction force microscopy (TFM). The principle behind this method is to measure deformation in the substrate by calculating 2-dimensional displacement of fluorescent beads that are embedded in the matrix. High-resolution TFM allows the analysis of traction forces at much smaller structures, such as focal adhesions, at a spatial resolution of ∼1 μm.\n\nThe role of durotaxis under physiological conditions remains unknown. It may serve a purpose in fine-tuning the movement response of a cell to extracellular biochemical cues, though the relative contribution of durotaxis in a physiological environment where a cell is subject to other taxes (e.g. chemotaxis) is unknown, and may in fact prove to be wholly dispensable for cell migration \"in vivo\". The phenomenon might also have a role in several disease states that include the stiffening of tissues, as outlined below.\n\nIt is a common observation that tumors are stiffer than the surrounding tissue, and even serves as the basis for breast cancer self-examination. In fact, breast cancer tissue has been reported to be as much as ten times stiffer than normal tissue. Furthermore, a growing and metastasizing tumor involves the cooperation of many different cell types, like fibroblasts and endothelial cells, that possess different rigidities and could result in local stiffness gradients that guide cell migration. There is increasing evidence that durotaxis plays a role in cancer metastasis. Experiments in mice have demonstrated that tumor cells preferentially invade into the adjacent stroma along stiff collagen fibers. These stiff collagen alignments can be used to identify focal sites of breast tumor cell microinvasion. Pregnancy, which has various links to breast cancer incidence and prognosis, involves postpartum breast involution that relies on collagen remodeling and inflammation that converts these collagen fibers into stiffer counterparts, thus establishing a potential link between pregnancy and metastatic properties. Though some research shows that stiffer tumors are indicative of increased metastasis and decreased survival (which contradicts the concept that durotactic cells should be more attracted to the tumor and metastasize less), this is not counter intuitive because collagen-dependent integrin signaling has a wide range of consequences beyond durotaxis, including inhibition of the tumor suppressor PTEN via upregulation of the miRNA miR-18a. Moreover, there is evidence that increased tumor stiffness does in fact correlate with decreased metastasis, as the principle of durotaxis would suggest.\n\nFibrosis of the liver is the accumulation of ECM proteins, such as collagen, that occurs in many chronic liver diseases. Increased liver stiffness (of existing collagen) has actually been shown to precede fibrosis and to be required for the activation of fibrogenic myofibroblasts. Fibroblasts move towards the stiffer tissue via durotaxis, and upon reaching it, will differentiate into fibrogenic myofibroblasts. This vicious positive feedback loop of durotaxis-dependent fibrosis could potentially be a therapeutic target for the prevention of liver fibrosis.\n\nThe pathology of atherosclerosis is largely dependent on the migration of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) into the tunica intima layer of the blood vessel, where they can accumulate lipids, undergo necrosis, and elaborate the ECM (fibrosis). The migration of these cells has also been demonstrated to be rigidity-dependent, and matrix stiffness further affects their proliferation in response to growth factors.\n\nSeveral mathematical models have been used to describe durotaxis, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "39285406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39285406", "title": "Florida Civil Rights Hall of Fame", "text": "Florida Civil Rights Hall of Fame\n\nThe Florida Civil Rights Hall of Fame honors people who have worked on behalf of civil rights in Florida. It is located in the Florida State Capitol and is administered by the Florida Department of Management Services. It was created in 2010 by unanimous vote of both houses of the Florida Legislature.\n\n\"This is a sortable table. Click on \"Year\" and it will sort by year. Click on \"Name\" and it will aort by first name. The source, which has the person's home town or county and reason for inclusion, is Civil Rights Hall of Fame Inductees, consulted September 30, 2018.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "126588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=126588", "title": "Gift economy", "text": "Gift economy\n\nA gift economy, gift culture, or gift exchange is a mode of exchange where valuables are not traded or sold, but rather given without an explicit agreement for immediate or future rewards. This exchange contrasts with a barter economy or a market economy, where goods and services are primarily exchanged for value received. Social norms and custom govern gift exchange. Gifts are not given in an explicit exchange of goods or services for money or some other commodity.\n\nThe nature of gift economies forms the subject of a foundational debate in anthropology. Anthropological research into gift economies began with Bronisław Malinowski's description of the Kula ring in the Trobriand Islands during World War I. The Kula trade appeared to be gift-like since Trobrianders would travel great distances over dangerous seas to give what were considered valuable objects without any guarantee of a return. Malinowski's debate with the French anthropologist Marcel Mauss quickly established the complexity of \"gift exchange\" and introduced a series of technical terms such as reciprocity, inalienable possessions, and prestation to distinguish between the different forms of exchange.\n\nAccording to anthropologists Maurice Bloch and Jonathan Parry, it is the unsettled relationship between market and non-market exchange that attracts the most attention. Gift economies are said, by some, to build communities, with the market serving as an acid on those relationships.\n\nGift exchange is distinguished from other forms of exchange by a number of principles, such as the form of property rights governing the articles exchanged; whether gifting forms a distinct \"sphere of exchange\" that can be characterized as an \"economic system\"; and the character of the social relationship that the gift exchange establishes. Gift ideology in highly commercialized societies differs from the \"prestations\" typical of non-market societies. Gift economies must also be differentiated from several closely related phenomena, such as common property regimes and the exchange of non-commodified labour.\n\nAccording to anthropologist Jonathan Parry, discussion on the nature of gifts, and of a separate sphere of gift exchange that would constitute an economic system, has been plagued by the ethnocentric use of modern, western, market society-based conception of the gift applied as if it were a cross-cultural, pan-historical universal. However, he claims that anthropologists, through analysis of a variety of cultural and historical forms of exchange, have established that no universal practice exists. His classic summation of the gift exchange debate highlighted that ideologies of the \"pure gift\" \"are most likely to arise in highly differentiated societies with an advanced division of labour and a significant commercial sector\" and need to be distinguished from non-market \"prestations\". According to Weiner, to speak of a \"gift economy\" in a non-market society is to ignore the distinctive features of their exchange relationships, as the early classic debate between Bronislaw Malinowski and Marcel Mauss demonstrated. Gift exchange is frequently \"embedded\" in political, kin, or religious institutions, and therefore does not constitute an \"economic\" system per se.\n\nGift-giving is a form of transfer of property rights over particular objects. The nature of those property rights varies from society to society, from culture to culture, and are not universal. The nature of gift-giving is thus altered by the type of property regime in place.\n\nProperty is not a thing, but a relationship amongst people about things. According to Chris Hann, property is a social relationship that governs the conduct of people with respect to the use and disposition of things. Anthropologists analyze these relationships in terms of a variety of actors' (individual or corporate) \"bundle of rights\" over objects. An example is the current debates around intellectual property rights. Hann and Strangelove both give the example of a purchased book (an object that he owns), over which the author retains a \"copyright\". Although the book is a commodity, bought and sold, it has not been completely \"alienated\" from its creator who maintains a hold over it; the owner of the book is limited in what he can do with the book by the rights of the creator. Weiner has argued that the ability to give while retaining a right to the gift/commodity is a critical feature of the gifting cultures described by Malinowski and Mauss, and explains, for example, why some gifts such as Kula valuables return to their original owners after an incredible journey around the Trobriand islands. The gifts given in Kula exchange still remain, in some respects, the property of the giver.\n\nIn the example used above, \"copyright\" is one of those bundled rights that regulate the use and disposition of a book. Gift-giving in many societies is complicated because \"private property\" owned by an individual may be quite limited in scope (see below). Productive resources, such as land, may be held by members of a corporate group (such as a lineage), but only some members of that group may have \"use rights\". When many people hold rights over the same objects gifting has very different implications than the gifting of private property; only some of the rights in that object may be transferred, leaving that object still tied to its corporate owners. Anthropologist Annette Weiner refers to these types of objects as \"inalienable possessions\" and to the process as \"keeping while giving\".\n\nMalinowski's study of the Kula ring became the subject of debate with the French anthropologist, Marcel Mauss, author of \"The Gift\" (\"Essai sur le don\", 1925). In Parry's view, Malinowski placed the emphasis on the exchange of goods between \"individuals\", and their non-altruistic motives for giving the gift: they expected a return of equal or greater value. Malinowski stated that reciprocity is an implicit part of gifting; he contended there is no such thing as the \"free gift\" given without expectation.\n\nMauss, in contrast, emphasized that the gifts were not between individuals, but between representatives of larger collectivities. These gifts were, he argued, a \"total prestation\". A prestation is a service provided out of a sense of obligation, like \"community service\". They were not simple, alienable commodities to be bought and sold, but, like the \"Crown jewels\", embodied the reputation, history and sense of identity of a \"corporate kin group\", such as a line of kings. Given the stakes, Mauss asked \"why anyone would give them away?\" His answer was an enigmatic concept, \"the spirit of the gift\". Parry believes that a good part of the confusion (and resulting debate) was due to a bad translation. Mauss appeared to be arguing that a return gift is given to keep the very relationship between givers alive; a failure to return a gift ends the relationship and the promise of any future gifts.\n\nBoth Malinowski and Mauss agreed that in non-market societies, where there was no clear institutionalized economic exchange system, gift/prestation exchange served economic, kinship, religious and political functions that could not be clearly distinguished from each other, and which mutually influenced the nature of the practice.\n\nMauss' concept of \"total prestations\" was further developed by Annette Weiner, who revisited Malinowski's fieldsite in the Trobriand Islands. Her critique was twofold: first, Trobriand Island society is matrilineal, and women hold a great deal of economic and political power. Their exchanges were ignored by Malinowski. Secondly, she developed Mauss' argument about reciprocity and the \"spirit of the gift\" in terms of \"inalienable possessions: the paradox of keeping while giving.\" Weiner contrasts \"moveable goods\" which can be exchanged with \"immoveable goods\" that serve to draw the gifts back (in the Trobriand case, male Kula gifts with women's landed property). She argues that the specific goods given, like Crown Jewels, are so identified with particular groups, that even when given, they are not truly alienated. Not all societies, however, have these kinds of goods, which depend upon the existence of particular kinds of kinship groups. French anthropologist Maurice Godelier pushed the analysis further in \"The Enigma of the Gift\" (1999). Albert Schrauwers has argued that the kinds of societies used as examples by Weiner and Godelier (including the Kula ring in the Trobriands, the Potlatch of the indigenous peoples of the Pacific Northwest Coast, and the Toraja of South Sulawesi, Indonesia) are all characterized by ranked aristocratic kin groups that fit with Claude Lévi-Strauss' model of \"House Societies\" (where \"House\" refers to both noble lineage and their landed estate). Total prestations are given, he argues, to preserve landed estates identified with particular kin groups and maintain their place in a ranked society.\n\nAccording to Chris Gregory reciprocity is a dyadic exchange relationship that we characterize, imprecisely, as gift-giving. Gregory believes that one gives gifts to friends and potential enemies in order to establish a relationship, by placing them in debt. He also claimed that in order for such a relationship to persist, there must be a time lag between the gift and counter-gift; one or the other partner must always be in debt, or there is no relationship. Marshall Sahlins has stated that birthday gifts are an example of this. Sahlins notes that birthday presents are separated in time so that one partner feels the obligation to make a return gift; and to forget the return gift may be enough to end the relationship. Gregory has stated that without a relationship of debt, there is no reciprocity, and that this is what distinguishes a gift economy from a \"true gift\" given with no expectation of return (something Sahlins calls \"generalized reciprocity\": see below).\n\nMarshall Sahlins, an American cultural anthropologist, identified three main types of reciprocity in his book \"Stone Age Economics\" (1972). Gift or \"generalized reciprocity\" is the exchange of goods and services without keeping track of their exact value, but often with the expectation that their value will balance out over time. \"Balanced or Symmetrical reciprocity\" occurs when someone gives to someone else, expecting a fair and tangible return at a specified amount, time, and place. Market or \"Negative reciprocity\" is the exchange of goods and services where each party intends to profit from the exchange, often at the expense of the other. Gift economies, or generalized reciprocity, occurred within closely knit kin groups, and the more distant the exchange partner, the more balanced or negative the exchange became.\n\nThe \"generalized reciprocity\" time-lag in recent years, also applies as an allowance for spontaneity and creativity that enables both parties to demonstrate love in surprising ways. In a market exchange, the giving party loses an item to gain income while the receiving party loses income to gain an item, a +1 -1 transaction that leads to 0 goodwill remaining on average. In a giving relationship, the giving party loses the item, but gains the joy of doing good for someone they appreciate, while the receiving party still gains not just something, but something that is tailored to their tastes, transaction value +1(receiver) +1(giver) -1(giver) +1(personalization as sign of love for the receiver) for a total of +2 goodwill added to the relationship. This expanding goodwill deepens social capital exchanged in close communities and leaves a \"relationship bank\" for community members to tap into when they are in need of help in the future. This belief is a core part of the culture of Burning Man.\n\nWithin the virtual world, the proliferation of public domain content, Creative Common Licences, and Open Source projects have also contributed to what might be considered an economics game changer variable.\n\nJonathan Parry has argued that ideologies of the \"pure gift\" \"are most likely to arise only in highly differentiated societies with an advanced division of labour and a significant commercial sector\" and need to be distinguished from the non-market \"prestations\" discussed above. Parry also underscored, using the example of charitable giving of alms in India (Dāna), that the \"pure gift\" of alms given with no expectation of return could be \"poisonous\". That is, the gift of alms embodying the sins of the giver, when given to ritually pure priests, saddled these priests with impurities that they could not cleanse themselves of. \"Pure gifts\", given without a return, can place recipients in debt, and hence in dependent status: the poison of the gift. David Graeber points out that no reciprocity is expected between unequals: if you make a gift of a dollar to a beggar, he will not give it back the next time you meet. More than likely, he will ask for more, to the detriment of his status. Many who are forced by circumstances to accept charity feel stigmatized. In the Moka exchange system of Papua New Guinea, where gift givers become political \"big men\", those who are in their debt and unable to repay with \"interest\" are referred to as \"rubbish men\".\n\nThe French writer Georges Bataille, in \"La part Maudite\", uses Mauss's argument in order to construct a theory of economy: the structure of gift is the presupposition for all possible economy. Bataille is particularly interested in the potlatch as described by Mauss, and claims that its agonistic character obliges the receiver of the gift to confirm their own subjection. Gift-giving thus embodies the Hegelian dipole of master and slave within the act.\n\nThe relationship of new market exchange systems to indigenous non-market exchange remained a perplexing question for anthropologists. Paul Bohannan argued that the Tiv of Nigeria had three spheres of exchange, and that only certain kinds of goods could be exchanged in each sphere; each sphere had its own different form of special purpose money. However, the market and universal money allowed goods to be traded between spheres and thus served as an acid on established social relationships. Jonathan Parry and Maurice Bloch, argued in \"Money and the Morality of Exchange\" (1989), that the \"transactional order\" through which long-term social reproduction of the family takes place has to be preserved as separate from short-term market relations. It is the long-term social reproduction of the family that is sacralized by religious rituals such baptisms, weddings and funerals, and characterized by gifting.\n\nIn such situations where gift-giving and market exchange were intersecting for the first time, some anthropologists contrasted them as polar opposites. This opposition was classically expressed by Chris Gregory in his book \"Gifts and Commodities\" (1982). Gregory argued that\n\nGregory contrasts gift and commodity exchange according to five criteria:\n\nOther anthropologists, however, refused to see these different \"exchange spheres\" as such polar opposites. Marilyn Strathern, writing on a similar area in Papua New Guinea, dismissed the utility of the contrasting setup in \"The Gender of the Gift\" (1988).\n\nRather than emphasize how particular kinds of objects are either gifts or commodities to be traded in restricted spheres of exchange, Arjun Appadurai and others began to look at how objects flowed between these spheres of exchange (i.e. how objects can be converted into gifts and then back into commodities). They refocussed attention away from the character of the human relationships formed through exchange, and placed it on \"the social life of things\" instead. They examined the strategies by which an object could be \"singularized\" (made unique, special, one-of-a-kind) and so withdrawn from the market. A marriage ceremony that transforms a purchased ring into an irreplaceable family heirloom is one example; the heirloom, in turn, makes a perfect gift. Singularization is the reverse of the seemingly irresistible process of commodification. They thus show how all economies are a constant flow of material objects that enter and leave specific exchange spheres. A similar approach is taken by Nicholas Thomas, who examines the same range of cultures and the anthropologists who write on them, and redirects attention to the \"entangled objects\" and their roles as both gifts and commodities.\n\nMany societies have strong prohibitions against turning gifts into trade or capital goods. Anthropologist Wendy James writes that among the Uduk people of northeast Africa there is a strong custom that any gift that crosses subclan boundaries must be consumed rather than invested. For example, an animal given as a gift must be eaten, not bred. However, as in the example of the Trobriand armbands and necklaces, this \"perishing\" may not consist of consumption as such, but of the gift moving on. In other societies, it is a matter of giving some other gift, either directly in return or to another party. To keep the gift and not give another in exchange is reprehensible. \"In folk tales,\" Lewis Hyde remarks, \"the person who tries to hold onto a gift usually dies.\"\n\nDaniel Everett, a linguist who studied a small tribe of hunter-gatherers in Brazil, reported that, while they are aware of food preservation using drying, salting, and so forth, they reserve the use of these techniques for items for barter outside of the tribe. Within the group, when someone has a successful hunt they immediately share the abundance by inviting others to enjoy a feast. Asked about this practice, one hunter laughed and replied, \"I store meat in the belly of my brother.\"\n\nCarol Stack's \"All Our Kin\" describes both the positive and negative sides of a network of obligation and gratitude effectively constituting a gift economy. Her narrative of The Flats, a poor Chicago neighborhood, tells in passing the story of two sisters who each came into a small inheritance. One sister hoarded the inheritance and prospered materially for some time, but was alienated from the community. Her marriage ultimately broke up, and she integrated herself back into the community largely by giving gifts. The other sister fulfilled the community's expectations, but within six weeks had nothing material to show for the inheritance but a coat and a pair of shoes.\n\nMarcel Mauss was careful to distinguish \"gift economies\" (reciprocity) in market-based societies from the \"total prestations\" given in non-market societies. A prestation is a service provided out of a sense of obligation, like \"community service\". These \"prestations\" bring together domains that we would differentiate as political, religious, legal, moral and economic, such that the exchange can be seen to be embedded in non-economic social institutions. These prestations are frequently competitive, as in the potlatch, Kula exchange, and Moka exchange.\n\nThe \"Moka\" is a highly ritualized system of exchange in the Mount Hagen area, Papua New Guinea, that has become emblematic of the anthropological concepts of \"gift economy\" and of \"big man\" political system. Moka are reciprocal gifts of pigs through which social status is achieved. Moka refers specifically to the increment in the size of the gift. Social status in the \"big man\" political system is the result of giving larger gifts than one has received. These gifts are of a limited range of goods, primarily pigs and scarce pearl shells from the coast. To return the same amount as one has received in a moka is simply the repayment of a debt, strict reciprocity. Moka is the extra. To some, this represents interest on an investment. However, one is not bound to provide moka, only to repay the debt. One adds moka to the gift to increase one's prestige, and to place the receiver in debt. It is this constant renewal of the debt relationship which keeps the relationship alive; a debt fully paid off ends further interaction. Giving more than one receives establishes a reputation as a Big man, whereas the simple repayment of debt, or failure to fully repay, pushes one's reputation towards the other end of the scale, \"rubbish man\". Gift exchange thus has a political effect; granting prestige or status to one, and a sense of debt in the other. A political system can be built out of these kinds of status relationships. Sahlins characterizes the difference between status and rank by highlighting that Big man is not a role; it is a status that is shared by many. The Big man is \"not a prince \"of\" men\", but a \"prince among men\". The \"big man\" system is based upon the ability to persuade, rather than command.\n\nThe Toraja are an ethnic group indigenous to a mountainous region of South Sulawesi, Indonesia. Torajans are renowned for their elaborate funeral rites, burial sites carved into rocky cliffs, and massive peaked-roof traditional houses known as \"tongkonan\" which are owned by noble families. Membership in a tongkonan is inherited by all descendants of its founders. Any individual Toraja may thus be a member of numerous tongkonan, as long as they contribute to its ritual events. Membership in a tongkonan carries benefits, such as the right to rent some of its rice fields.\n\nToraja funeral rites are important social events, usually attended by hundreds of people and lasting for several days. The funerals are like \"big men\" competitions where all the descendants of a tongkonan will compete through gifts of sacrificial cattle. Participants will have invested cattle with others over the years, and will now draw on those extended networks to make the largest gift. The winner of the competition becomes the new owner of the tongkonan and its rice lands. They display all the cattle horns from their winning sacrifice on a pole in front of the tongkonan.\n\nThe Toraja funeral differs from the \"big man\" system in that the winner of the \"gift\" exchange gains control of the Tongkonan's property. It creates a clear social hierarchy between the noble owners of the tongkonan and its land, and the commoners who are forced to rent their fields from him. Since the owners of the tongkonan gain rent, they are better able to compete in the funeral gift exchanges, and their social rank is more stable than the \"big man\" system.\n\nAnthropologist David Graeber has argued that the great world religious traditions on charity and gift giving emerged almost simultaneously during the \"Axial age\" (the period between 800 and 200 BCE), which was the same period in which coinage was invented and market economies established on a continental basis. These religious traditions on charity emerge, he argues, as a reaction against the nexus formed by coinage, slavery, military violence and the market (a \"military-coinage\" complex). The new world religions, including Hinduism, Judaism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Christianity, and Islam all sought to preserve \"human economies\" where money served to cement social relationships rather than purchase things (including people).\n\nCharity and alms-giving are religiously sanctioned voluntary gifts given without expectation of return. Case studies demonstrate, however, that such gift-giving is not necessarily altruistic.\n\nTheravada Buddhism in Thailand emphasizes the importance of giving alms (merit making) without any intention of return (a pure gift), which is best accomplished according to doctrine, through gifts to monks and temples. The emphasis is on the selfless gifting which \"earns merit\" (and a future better life) for the giver rather than on the relief of the poor or the recipient on whom the gift is bestowed. Bowie's research among poorer Thai farmers shows, however, that this ideal form of gifting is limited to the rich who have the resources to endow temples, or sponsor the ordination of a monk. Monks come from these same families, hence the doctrine of pure gifting to monks has a class element to it. Poorer farmers place much less emphasis on merit making through gifts to monks and temples. They equally validate gifting to beggars. Poverty and famine is widespread amongst these poorer groups, and by validating gift-giving to beggars, they are in fact demanding that the rich see to their needs in hard times. Bowie sees this as an example of a moral economy (see below) in which the poor use gossip and reputation as a means of resisting elite exploitation and pressuring them to ease their \"this world\" suffering.\n\nDāna is a form of religious charity given in Hindu India. The gift is said to embody the sins of the giver (the \"poison of the gift\"), who it frees of evil by transmitting it to the recipient. The merit of the gift is dependent on finding a worthy recipient such as a Brahmin priest. Priests are supposed to be able to digest the sin through ritual action and transmit the gift with increment to someone of greater worth. It is imperative that this be a true gift, with no reciprocity, or the evil will return. The gift is not intended to create any relationship between donor and recipient, and there should never be a return gift. Dana thus transgresses the so-called universal \"norm of reciprocity\".\n\nThe Children of Peace (1812–1889) were a utopian Quaker sect. Today, they are primarily remembered for the Sharon Temple, a national historic site and an architectural symbol of their vision of a society based on the values of peace, equality and social justice. They built this ornate temple to raise money for the poor, and built the province of Ontario's first shelter for the homeless. They took a lead role in the organization of the province's first co-operative, the Farmers' Storehouse, and opened the province's first credit union. The group soon found that the charity they tried to distribute from their Temple fund endangered the poor. Accepting charity was a sign of indebtedness, and the debtor could be jailed without trial at the time; this was the \"poison of the gift\". They thus transformed their charity fund into a credit union that loaned small sums like today's micro-credit institutions. This is an example of singularization, as money was transformed into charity in the Temple ceremony, then shifted to an alternative exchange sphere as a loan. Interest on the loan was then singularized, and transformed back into charity.\n\nNon-commodified spheres of exchange exist in relation to the market economy. They are created through the processes of singularization as specific objects are de-commodified for a variety of reasons and enter an alternative exchange sphere. As in the case of organ donation, this may be the result of an ideological opposition to the \"traffic in humans\". In other cases, it is in opposition to the market and to its perceived greed. It may, however, be used by corporations as a means of creating a sense of endebtedness and loyalty in customers. Modern marketing techniques often aim at infusing commodity exchange with features of gift exchange, thus blurring the presumably sharp distinction between gifts and commodities.\n\nMarket economies tend to reduce everything – \"including human beings, their labor, and their reproductive capacity\" – to the status of commodities. The rapid transfer of organ transplant technology to the third world has created a trade in organs, with sick bodies travelling to the global south for transplants, and healthy organs from the global south being transported to the richer global north, \"creating a kind of 'Kula ring' of bodies and body parts.\" However, all commodities can also be singularized, or de-commodified, and transformed into gifts. In North America, it is illegal to sell organs, and citizens are enjoined to give the \"gift of life\" and donate their organs in an organ gift economy. However, this gift economy is a \"medical realm rife with potent forms of mystified commodification\". This multimillion-dollar medical industry requires clients to pay steep fees for the gifted organ, which creates clear class divisions between those who donate (frequently in the global south) and will never benefit from gifted organs, and those who can pay the fees and thereby receive the gifted organ.\n\nUnlike body organs, blood and semen have been successfully and legally commodified in the United States. Blood and semen can thus be commodified, but once consumed are \"the gift of life\". Although both can be either donated or sold, are perceived as the \"gift of life\" yet are stored in \"banks\", and can be collected only under strict government regulated procedures, recipients very clearly prefer altruistically donated semen and blood. Ironically, the blood and semen samples with the highest market value are those that have been altruistically donated. The recipients view semen as storing the potential characteristics of their unborn child in its DNA, and value altruism over greed. Similarly, gifted blood is the archetype of a pure gift relationship because the donor is only motivated by a desire to help others.\n\nEngineers, scientists and software developers have created free software projects such as the Linux kernel and the GNU operating system. They are prototypical examples for the gift economy's prominence in the technology sector, and its active role in instating the use of permissive free software and copyleft licenses, which allow free reuse of software and knowledge. Other examples include file-sharing, open access, unlicensed software ... etc.\n\nMany retail organizations have \"gift\" programs meant to encourage customer loyalty to their establishments. Bird-David and Darr refer to these as hybrid \"mass-gifts\" which are neither gift nor commodity. They are called mass-gifts because they are given away in large numbers \"free with purchase\" in a mass-consumption environment. They give as an example two bars of soap in which one is given free with purchase: which is the commodity and which the gift? The mass-gift both affirms the distinct difference between gift and commodity while confusing it at the same time. As with gifting, mass-gifts are used to create a social relationship. Some customers embrace the relationship and gift whereas others reject the gift relationship and interpret the \"gift\" as a 50% off sale.\n\n\"Give-away shops\", \"freeshops\" or \"free stores\" are stores where all goods are free. They are similar to charity shops, with mostly second-hand items—only everything is available at no cost. Whether it is a book, a piece of furniture, a garment or a household item, it is all freely given away, although some operate a one-in, one-out–type policy (swap shops). The free store is a form of constructive direct action that provides a shopping alternative to a monetary framework, allowing people to exchange goods and services outside of a money-based economy. The anarchist 1960s countercultural group The Diggers opened free stores which simply gave away their stock, provided free food, distributed free drugs, gave away money, organized free music concerts, and performed works of political art. The Diggers took their name from the original English Diggers led by Gerrard Winstanley and sought to create a mini-society free of money and capitalism. Although free stores have not been uncommon in the United States since the 1960s, the freegan movement has inspired the establishment of more free stores. Today the idea is kept alive by the new generations of social centres, anarchists and environmentalists who view the idea as an intriguing way to raise awareness about consumer culture and to promote the reuse of commodities.\n\nBurning Man is a week-long annual art and community event held in the Black Rock Desert in northern Nevada, in the United States. The event is described as an experiment in community, radical self-expression, and radical self-reliance. The event forbids commerce (except for ice, coffee, and tickets to the event itself) and encourages gifting. Gifting is one of the 10 guiding principles, as participants to Burning Man (both the desert festival and the year-round global community) are encouraged to rely on a gift economy. The practice of gifting at Burning Man is also documented by the 2002 documentary film \"Gifting It: A Burning Embrace of Gift Economy\", as well as by Making Contact's radio show \"How We Survive: The Currency of Giving [encore]\".\n\nAccording to the Associated Press, \"Gift-giving has long been a part of marijuana culture\" and has accompanied legalization in U.S. states in the 2010s. Voters in the District of Columbia legalized the growing of cannabis for personal recreational use by approving Initiative 71 in November 2014, but the 2015 \"Cromnibus\" Federal appropriations bills prevented the District from creating a system to allow for its commercial sale. Possession, growth, and use of the drug by adults is legal in the District, as is giving it away, but sale and barter of it is not, in effect attempting to create a gift economy. However it ended up creating a commercial market linked to selling other objects. Preceding the January, 2018 legalization of cannabis possession in Vermont without a corresponding legal framework for sales, it was expected that a similar market would emerge there. For a time, people in Portland, Oregon could only legally obtain cannabis as a gift, which was celebrated in the Burnside Burn rally. For a time, a similar situation ensued after possession was legalized in California, Maine and Massachusetts.\n\nMany anarchists, particularly anarcho-primitivists and anarcho-communists, believe that variations on a gift economy may be the key to breaking the cycle of poverty. Therefore, they often desire to refashion all of society into a gift economy. Anarcho-communists advocate a gift economy as an ideal, with neither money, nor markets, nor central planning. This view traces back at least to Peter Kropotkin, who saw in the hunter-gatherer tribes he had visited the paradigm of \"mutual aid\". In place of a market, anarcho-communists, such as those who inhabited some Spanish villages in the 1930s, support a currency-less gift economy where goods and services are produced by workers and distributed in community stores where everyone (including the workers who produced them) is essentially entitled to consume whatever they want or need as payment for their production of goods and services.\n\nAs an intellectual abstraction, mutual aid was developed and advanced by mutualism or labor insurance systems and thus trade unions, and has been also used in cooperatives and other civil society movements. Typically, mutual-aid groups will be free to join and participate in, and all activities will be voluntary. They are often structured as non-hierarchical, non-bureaucratic non-profit organizations, with members controlling all resources and no external financial or professional support. They are member-led and member-organized. They are egalitarian in nature, and designed to support participatory democracy, equality of member status and power, and shared leadership and cooperative decision-making. Members' external societal status is considered irrelevant inside the group: status in the group is conferred by participation.\n\nEnglish historian E.P. Thompson wrote of the moral economy of the poor in the context of widespread English food riots in the English countryside in the late eighteenth century. According to Thompson these riots were generally peaceable acts that demonstrated a common political culture rooted in feudal rights to \"set the price\" of essential goods in the market. These peasants held that a traditional \"fair price\" was more important to the community than a \"free\" market price and they punished large farmers who sold their surpluses at higher prices outside the village while there were still those in need within the village. A moral economy is thus an attempt to preserve an alternative exchange sphere from market penetration. The notion of peasants with a non-capitalist cultural mentality using the market for their own ends has been linked to subsistence agriculture and the need for subsistence insurance in hard times. James C. Scott points out, however, that those who provide this subsistence insurance to the poor in bad years are wealthy patrons who exact a political cost for their aid; this aid is given to recruit followers. The concept of moral economy has been used to explain why peasants in a number of colonial contexts, such as the Vietnam War, have rebelled.\n\nSome may confuse common property regimes with gift exchange systems. \"Commons\" refers to the cultural and natural resources accessible to all members of a society, including natural materials such as air, water, and a habitable earth. These resources are held in common, not owned privately. The resources held in common can include everything from natural resources and common land to software. The commons contains public property and private property, over which people have certain traditional rights. When commonly held property is transformed into private property this process alternatively is termed \"enclosure\" or more commonly, \"privatization\". A person who has a right in, or over, common land jointly with another or others is called a commoner.\n\nThere are a number of important aspects that can be used to describe true commons. The first is that the commons cannot be commodified – if they are, they cease to be commons. The second aspect is that unlike private property, the commons are inclusive rather than exclusive – their nature is to share ownership as widely, rather than as narrowly, as possible. The third aspect is that the assets in commons are meant to be preserved regardless of their return of capital. Just as we receive them as a shared right, so we have a duty to pass them on to future generations in at least the same condition as we received them. If we can add to their value, so much the better, but at a minimum we must not degrade them, and we certainly have no right to destroy them.\n\nFree content, or free information, is any kind of functional work, artwork, or other creative content that meets the definition of a free cultural work. A free cultural work is one which has no significant legal restriction on people's freedom:\n\nAlthough different definitions are used, free content is legally similar if not identical to open content. An analogy is the use of the rival terms free software and open source which describe ideological differences rather than legal ones.\n\nFree content encompasses all works in the public domain and also those copyrighted works whose licenses honor and uphold the freedoms mentioned above. Because copyright law in most countries by default grants copyright holders monopolistic control over their creations, copyright content must be explicitly declared free, usually by the referencing or inclusion of licensing statements from within the work.\n\nThough a work which is in the public domain because its copyright has expired is considered free, it can become non-free again if the copyright law changes.\n\nInformation is particularly suited to gift economies, as information is a nonrival good and can be gifted at practically no cost (zero marginal cost). In fact, there is often an advantage to using the same software or data formats as others, so even from a selfish perspective, it can be advantageous to give away one's information.\n\nMarkus Giesler in his ethnography \"Consumer Gift System\", described music downloading as a system of social solidarity based on gift transactions. As Internet access spread, file sharing became extremely popular among users who could contribute and receive files on line. This form of gift economy was a model for online services such as Napster, which focused on music sharing and was later sued for copyright infringement. Nonetheless, online file sharing persists in various forms such as Bit Torrent and Direct download link. A number of communications and intellectual property experts such as Henry Jenkins and Lawrence Lessig have described file-sharing as a form of gift exchange which provides numerous benefits to artists and consumers alike. They have argued that file sharing fosters community among distributors and allows for a more equitable distribution of media.\n\nIn his essay \"Homesteading the Noosphere\", noted computer programmer Eric S. Raymond said that free and open-source software developers have created \"a 'gift culture' in which participants compete for prestige by giving time, energy, and creativity away\". Prestige gained as a result of contributions to source code fosters a social network for the developer; the open source community will recognize the developer's accomplishments and intelligence. Consequently, the developer may find more opportunities to work with other developers. However, prestige is not the only motivator for the giving of lines of code. An anthropological study of the Fedora community, as part of a master's study at the University of North Texas in 2010-11, found that common reasons given by contributors were \"learning for the joy of learning and collaborating with interesting and smart people\". Motivation for personal gain, such as career benefits, was more rarely reported. Many of those surveyed said things like, \"Mainly I contribute just to make it work for me\", and \"programmers develop software to 'scratch an itch. The International Institute of Infonomics at the University of Maastricht in the Netherlands reported in 2002 that in addition to the above, large corporations, and they specifically mentioned IBM, also spend large annual sums employing developers specifically for them to contribute to open source projects. The firms' and the employees' motivations in such cases are less clear.\n\nMembers of the Linux community often speak of their community as a gift economy. The IT research firm IDC valued the Linux kernel at $18 billion USD in 2007 and projected its value at $40 billion USD in 2010. The Debian distribution of the GNU/Linux operating system offers over 37,000 free open-source software packages via their AMD64 repositories alone.\n\nCollaborative works are works created by an open community. For example, Wikipediaa free online encyclopediafeatures millions of articles developed collaboratively, and almost none of its many authors and editors receive any direct material reward.\n\nThe concept of a gift economy has played a large role in works of fiction about alternative societies, especially in works of science fiction. Examples include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1029152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1029152", "title": "Give-away shop", "text": "Give-away shop\n\nGive-away shops, swap shops, freeshops, or free stores are stores where all goods are free. They are similar to charity shops, with mostly second-hand items—only everything is available at no cost. Whether it is a book, a piece of furniture, a garment or a household item, it is all freely given away, although some operate a one-in, one-out–type policy (swap shops).\n\nThe free store is a form of constructive direct action that provides a shopping alternative to a monetary framework, allowing people to exchange goods and services outside of a money-based economy. The anarchist 1960s countercultural group the Diggers opened free stores which simply gave away their stock, provided free food, distributed free drugs, gave away money, organized free music concerts, and performed works of political art. The Diggers took their name from the original English Diggers led by Gerrard Winstanley and sought to create a mini-society free of money and capitalism. Although free stores have not been uncommon in the United States since the 1960s, the freegan movement has inspired the establishment of more free stores. \nCulturally, some people feel that accepting free goods carries a stigma, so many people who use these shops are those who are led to them either by need (financially poor, such as students, single parents, the working-class, and the elderly) or by conviction (anti-capitalists and environmentalists). Swap shops, where you are asked to bring something in order to take something, are one way in which stigma issues are addressed.\n\nIn the United States, Really Really Free Market groups organize periodic \"market days\" in city parks. Participants are encouraged to share unneeded items, food, skills and talents (entertainment, haircutting, etc.), to clean up after themselves and to take home any of their own items they were unable to give away during the event. In other cases, used goods are picked up from the donors' homes, thus eliminating overhead costs. Donors are often not motivated by financial need or strictly anti-capitalist conviction, but by a desire to get rid of what would otherwise be garbage without adding it to landfills.\n\nAnother recent development in the give-away shop movement is the creation of the Freecycle Network. It began in the state of Arizona, United States for the purpose of connecting people who had extra belongings to get rid of with people who needed something, organized as discussion/distribution lists, and usually hosted on one of the free websites.\n\nIn 2007 a similar concept began to flourish in Devon, England where a group of free-bookshops called Book-Cycle began; A volunteer-run registered charity, that gives books and trees away in exchange for a donation. Any proceeds are then used to send free books to developing countries and plant trees in the local area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9678262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9678262", "title": "Godelieve", "text": "Godelieve\n\nSaint Godelieve (also known as Godeleva, Godeliève, Godelina) () ( 1052 – 6 July 1070) is a Flemish saint.\n\nTradition, as recorded in her \"Vita\", states that she was pious as a young girl, and became much sought after by suitors as a beautiful young woman. Godelieve, however, wanted to become a nun. A nobleman named Bertolf (Berthold) of Gistel, however, determined to marry her, successfully invoked the help of her father's overlord, Eustace II, Count of Boulogne. Berthold's servants were ordered to provide only bread and water to the young bride. Godelieve shared this food with the poor.\n\nGodelieve managed to escape to the home of her father, Hemfrid, seigneur of Wierre-Effroy. Hemfrid, appealing to the Bishops of Tournai and Soissons and the Count of Flanders, managed to have Bertolf restore Godelieve to her rightful position as his wife.\n\nIn July 1070, Godelieve returned to Gistel and soon after, at the order of Bertolf, was strangled by two servants and thrown into a pool, to make it appear as if she had died a natural death.\n\nAccording to legend, Bertolf married again, and had a daughter Edith, who was born blind: the legend states that Edith was cured through the intercession of Saint Godelieve. Bertolf, now repentant of his crimes, went to Rome to obtain absolution. He went on a pilgrimage to the Holy Land, and became a monk at St. Winnoc's Abbey at Bergues. Edith founded a Benedictine monastery at Gistel, which was dedicated to Saint Godelieve, which she joined herself as a nun.\n\nGodelieve's body was exhumed in 1084 by the Bishops of Tournai and Noyon, in the presence of Gertrude of Saxony, the wife of Robert I, Count of Flanders, the Abbot of St. Winnoc's and a number of clergymen. It was Radbod II, bishop of Noyon-Tournai, that consecrated Godelieve's relics in 1084, and Godelieve's popular cult developed thereafter.\n\nDrogo, a monk of St. Winnoc's Abbey, wrote Godelieve's biography, the \"Vita Godeliph\", about ten years after her death. The abbey of Ten Putte Abbey in Bruges was dedicated to her, and the name of the first Abbess was Agatha.\n\nEvery year, on the Sunday following 5 July, a procession celebrating Saint Godelieve takes place in Gistel.\n\nGodelieve's feast day, 6 July, was, like that of Saint Swithun in England and Saint Medard in France, connected with the weather. She is thus considered one of the \"weather saints.\"\n\nGodelieve's life is represented in the Godelieve Polyptych, now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2306417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306417", "title": "Gravity-gradient stabilization", "text": "Gravity-gradient stabilization\n\nGravity-gradient stabilization (a.k.a. \"tidal stabilization\") is a method of stabilizing artificial satellites or space tethers in a fixed orientation using only the orbited body's mass distribution and gravitational field. The main advantage over using active stabilization with propellants, gyroscopes or reaction wheels is the low use of power and resources.\n\nThe idea is to use the Earth's gravitational field and tidal forces to keep the spacecraft aligned in the desired orientation. The gravity of the Earth decreases according to the inverse-square law, and by extending the long axis perpendicular to the orbit, the \"lower\" part of the orbiting structure will be more attracted to the Earth. The effect is that the satellite will tend to align its axis of minimum moment of inertia vertically.\n\nThe first experimental attempt to use the technique on a human spaceflight was performed on September 13, 1966, on the US Gemini 11 mission, by attaching the Gemini spacecraft to its Agena target vehicle by a tether. The attempt was a failure, as insufficient gradient was produced to keep the tether taut.\n\nThe technique was first successfully used in a near-geosynchronous orbit on the Department of Defense Gravity Experiment (DODGE) satellite in July 1967.\n\nIt was first used for low Earth orbit and tested unsuccessfully for geosynchronous orbit in the Applications Technology Satellites ATS-2, ATS-4 and ATS-5 from 1966 until 1969.\n\nThe lunar orbiter Explorer 49 launched in 1973 was gravity gradient oriented (Z axis parallel to local vertical).\n\nLong Duration Exposure Facility (LDEF) used this method for 3-axis stabilization; yaw about the vertical axis was stabilized.\n\nAn example of gravity-gradient stabilization was attempted during NASA's TSS-1 mission in July, 1992. The project failed because of tether deployment problems. In 1996 another mission, TSS-1R, was attempted but failed when the tether broke. Just prior to tether separation, the tension on the tether was about 65 N (14.6 lbs).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27988760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27988760", "title": "Heuristics in judgment and decision-making", "text": "Heuristics in judgment and decision-making\n\nIn psychology, heuristics are simple, efficient rules which people often use to form judgments and make decisions. They are mental shortcuts that usually involve focusing on one aspect of a complex problem and ignoring others. These rules work well under most circumstances, but they can lead to systematic deviations from logic, probability or rational choice theory. The resulting errors are called \"cognitive biases\" and many different types have been documented. These have been shown to affect people's choices in situations like valuing a house, deciding the outcome of a legal case, or making an investment decision. Heuristics usually govern automatic, intuitive judgments but can also be used as deliberate mental strategies when working from limited information.\n\nCognitive scientist Herbert A. Simon originally proposed that human judgments are limited by available information, time constraints, and cognitive limitations, calling this bounded rationality. In the early 1970s, psychologists Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman demonstrated three heuristics that underlie a wide range of intuitive judgments. These findings set in motion the heuristics and biases research program, which studies how people make real-world judgments and the conditions under which those judgments are unreliable. This research challenged the idea that human beings are rational actors, but provided a theory of information processing to explain how people make estimates or choices. This research, which first gained worldwide attention in 1974 with the \"Science\" paper \"Judgment Under Uncertainty: Heuristics and Biases\", has guided almost all current theories of decision-making, and although the originally proposed heuristics have been challenged in the further debate, this research program has changed the field by permanently setting the research questions.\n\nThis heuristics-and-biases tradition has been criticised by Gerd Gigerenzer and others for being too focused on how heuristics lead to errors. The critics argue that heuristics can be seen as rational in an underlying sense. According to this perspective, heuristics are good enough for most purposes without being too demanding on the brain's resources. Another theoretical perspective sees heuristics as fully rational in that they are rapid, can be made without full information and can be as accurate as more complicated procedures. By understanding the role of heuristics in human psychology, marketers and other persuaders can influence decisions, such as the prices people pay for goods or the quantity they buy.\n\nIn their initial research, Tversky and Kahneman proposed three heuristics—availability, representativeness, and anchoring and adjustment. Subsequent work has identified many more. Heuristics that underlie judgment are called \"judgment heuristics\". Another type, called \"evaluation heuristics\", are used to judge the desirability of possible choices.\n\nIn psychology, \"availability\" is the ease with which a particular idea can be brought to mind. When people estimate how likely or how frequent an event is on the basis of its availability, they are using the availability heuristic. When an infrequent event can be brought easily and vividly to mind, people tend to overestimate its likelihood. For example, people overestimate their likelihood of dying in a dramatic event such as a tornado or terrorism. Dramatic, violent deaths are usually more highly publicised and therefore have a higher availability. On the other hand, common but mundane events are hard to bring to mind, so their likelihoods tend to be underestimated. These include deaths from suicides, strokes, and diabetes. This heuristic is one of the reasons why people are more easily swayed by a single, vivid story than by a large body of statistical evidence. It may also play a role in the appeal of lotteries: to someone buying a ticket, the well-publicised, jubilant winners are more available than the millions of people who have won nothing.\n\nWhen people judge whether more English words begin with \"T\" or with \"K\", the availability heuristic gives a quick way to answer the question. Words that begin with \"T\" come more readily to mind, and so subjects give a correct answer without counting out large numbers of words. However, this heuristic can also produce errors. When people are asked whether there are more English words with \"K\" in the first position or with \"K\" in the third position, they use the same process. It is easy to think of words that begin with \"K\", such as \"kangaroo\", \"kitchen\", or \"kept\". It is harder to think of words with \"K\" as the third letter, such as \"lake\", or \"acknowledge\", although objectively these are three times more common. This leads people to the incorrect conclusion that \"K\" is more common at the start of words. In another experiment, subjects heard the names of many celebrities, roughly equal numbers of whom were male and female. The subjects were then asked whether the list of names included more men or more women. When the men in the list were more famous, a great majority of subjects incorrectly thought there were more of them, and vice versa for women. Tversky and Kahneman's interpretation of these results is that judgments of proportion are based on availability, which is higher for the names of better-known people.\n\nIn one experiment that occurred before the 1976 U.S. Presidential election, some participants were asked to imagine Gerald Ford winning, while others did the same for a Jimmy Carter victory. Each group subsequently viewed their allocated candidate as significantly more likely to win. The researchers found a similar effect when students imagined a good or a bad season for a college football team. The effect of imagination on subjective likelihood has been replicated by several other researchers.\n\nA concept's availability can be affected by how recently and how frequently it has been brought to mind. In one study, subjects were given partial sentences to complete. The words were selected to activate the concept either of hostility or of kindness: a process known as \"priming\". They then had to interpret the behavior of a man described in a short, ambiguous story. Their interpretation was biased towards the emotion they had been primed with: the more priming, the greater the effect. A greater interval between the initial task and the judgment decreased the effect.\n\nTversky and Kahneman offered the availability heuristic as an explanation for illusory correlations in which people wrongly judge two events to be associated with each other. They explained that people judge correlation on the basis of the ease of imagining or recalling the two events together.\n\nThe representativeness heuristic is seen when people use categories, for example when deciding whether or not a person is a criminal. An individual thing has a high \"representativeness\" for a category if it is very similar to a prototype of that category. When people categorise things on the basis of representativeness, they are using the representativeness heuristic. \"Representative\" is here meant in two different senses: the prototype used for comparison is representative of its category, and representativeness is also a relation between that prototype and the thing being categorised. While it is effective for some problems, this heuristic involves attending to the particular characteristics of the individual, ignoring how common those categories are in the population (called the \"base rates\"). Thus, people can overestimate the likelihood that something has a very rare property, or underestimate the likelihood of a very common property. This is called the base rate fallacy. Representativeness explains this and several other ways in which human judgments break the laws of probability.\n\nThe representativeness heuristic is also an explanation of how people judge cause and effect: when they make these judgements on the basis of similarity, they are also said to be using the representativeness heuristic. This can lead to a bias, incorrectly finding causal relationships between things that resemble one another and missing them when the cause and effect are very different. Examples of this include both the belief that \"emotionally relevant events ought to have emotionally relevant causes\", and magical associative thinking.\n\nA 1973 experiment used a psychological profile of Tom W., a fictional graduate student. One group of subjects had to rate Tom's similarity to a typical student in each of nine academic areas (including Law, Engineering and Library Science). Another group had to rate how likely it is that Tom specialised in each area. If these ratings of likelihood are governed by probability, then they should resemble the base rates, i.e. the proportion of students in each of the nine areas (which had been separately estimated by a third group). If people based their judgments on probability, they would say that Tom is more likely to study Humanities than Library Science, because there are many more Humanities students, and the additional information in the profile is vague and unreliable. Instead, the ratings of likelihood matched the ratings of similarity almost perfectly, both in this study and a similar one where subjects judged the likelihood of a fictional woman taking different careers. This suggests that rather than estimating probability using base rates, subjects had substituted the more accessible attribute of similarity.\n\nWhen people rely on representativeness, they can fall into an error which breaks a fundamental law of probability. Tversky and Kahneman gave subjects a short character sketch of a woman called Linda, describing her as, \"31 years old, single, outspoken, and very bright. She majored in philosophy. As a student, she was deeply concerned with issues of discrimination and social justice, and also participated in anti-nuclear demonstrations\". People reading this description then ranked the likelihood of different statements about Linda. Amongst others, these included \"Linda is a bank teller\", and, \"Linda is a bank teller and is active in the feminist movement\". People showed a strong tendency to rate the latter, more specific statement as more likely, even though a conjunction of the form \"Linda is both \"X\" and \"Y\"\" can never be more probable than the more general statement \"Linda is \"X\"\". The explanation in terms of heuristics is that the judgment was distorted because, for the readers, the character sketch was representative of the sort of person who might be an active feminist but not of someone who works in a bank. A similar exercise concerned Bill, described as \"intelligent but unimaginative\". A great majority of people reading this character sketch rated \"Bill is an accountant who plays jazz for a hobby\", as more likely than \"Bill plays jazz for a hobby\".\n\nWithout success, Tversky and Kahneman used what they described as \"a series of increasingly desperate manipulations\" to get their subjects to recognise the logical error. In one variation, subjects had to choose between a logical explanation of why \"Linda is a bank teller\" is more likely, and a deliberately illogical argument which said that \"Linda is a feminist bank teller\" is more likely \"because she resembles an active feminist more than she resembles a bank teller\". Sixty-five percent of subjects found the illogical argument more convincing.\nOther researchers also carried out variations of this study, exploring the possibility that people had misunderstood the question. They did not eliminate the error. It has been shown that individuals with high CRT scores are significantly less likely to be subject to the conjunction fallacy. The error disappears when the question is posed in terms of frequencies. Everyone in these versions of the study recognised that out of 100 people fitting an outline description, the conjunction statement (\"She is \"X\" and \"Y\"\") cannot apply to more people than the general statement (\"She is \"X\"\").\n\nTversky and Kahneman asked subjects to consider a problem about random variation. Imagining for simplicity that exactly half of the babies born in a hospital are male, the ratio will not be exactly half in every time period. On some days, more girls will be born and on others, more boys. The question was, does the likelihood of deviating from exactly half depend on whether there are many or few births per day? It is a well-established consequence of sampling theory that proportions will vary much more day-to-day when the typical number of births per day is small. However, people's answers to the problem do not reflect this fact. They typically reply that the number of births in the hospital makes no difference to the likelihood of more than 60% male babies in one day. The explanation in terms of the heuristic is that people consider only how representative the figure of 60% is of the previously given average of 50%.\n\nRichard E. Nisbett and colleagues suggest that representativeness explains the \"dilution effect\", in which irrelevant information weakens the effect of a stereotype. Subjects in one study were asked whether \"Paul\" or \"Susan\" was more likely to be assertive, given no other information than their first names. They rated Paul as more assertive, apparently basing their judgment on a gender stereotype. Another group, told that Paul's and Susan's mothers each commute to work in a bank, did not show this stereotype effect; they rated Paul and Susan as equally assertive. The explanation is that the additional information about Paul and Susan made them less representative of men or women in general, and so the subjects' expectations about men and women had a weaker effect. This means unrelated and non-diagnostic information about certain issue can make relative information less powerful to the issue when people understand the phenomenon.\n\nRepresentativeness explains systematic errors that people make when judging the probability of random events. For example, in a sequence of coin tosses, each of which comes up heads (H) or tails (T), people reliably tend to judge a clearly patterned sequence such as HHHTTT as less likely than a less patterned sequence such as HTHTTH. These sequences have exactly the same probability, but people tend to see the more clearly patterned sequences as less representative of randomness, and so less likely to result from a random process. Tversky and Kahneman argued that this effect underlies the gambler's fallacy; a tendency to expect outcomes to even out over the short run, like expecting a roulette wheel to come up black because the last several throws came up red. They emphasised that even experts in statistics were susceptible to this illusion: in a 1971 survey of professional psychologists, they found that respondents expected samples to be overly representative of the population they were drawn from. As a result, the psychologists systematically overestimated the statistical power of their tests, and underestimated the sample size needed for a meaningful test of their hypotheses.\n\nAnchoring and adjustment is a heuristic used in many situations where people estimate a number. According to Tversky and Kahneman's original description, it involves starting from a readily available number—the \"anchor\"—and shifting either up or down to reach an answer that seems plausible. In Tversky and Kahneman's experiments, people did not shift far enough away from the anchor. Hence the anchor contaminates the estimate, even if it is clearly irrelevant. In one experiment, subjects watched a number being selected from a spinning \"wheel of fortune\". They had to say whether a given quantity was larger or smaller than that number. For instance, they might be asked, \"Is the percentage of African countries which are members of the United Nations larger or smaller than 65%?\" They then tried to guess the true percentage. Their answers correlated well with the arbitrary number they had been given. Insufficient adjustment from an anchor is not the only explanation for this effect. An alternative theory is that people form their estimates on evidence which is selectively brought to mind by the anchor.\n\nThe anchoring effect has been demonstrated by a wide variety of experiments both in laboratories and in the real world. It remains when the subjects are offered money as an incentive to be accurate, or when they are explicitly told not to base their judgment on the anchor. The effect is stronger when people have to make their judgments quickly. Subjects in these experiments lack introspective awareness of the heuristic, denying that the anchor affected their estimates.\n\nEven when the anchor value is obviously random or extreme, it can still contaminate estimates. One experiment asked subjects to estimate the year of Albert Einstein's first visit to the United States. Anchors of 1215 and 1992 contaminated the answers just as much as more sensible anchor years. Other experiments asked subjects if the average temperature in San Francisco is more or less than 558 degrees, or whether there had been more or fewer than 100,025 top ten albums by The Beatles. These deliberately absurd anchors still affected estimates of the true numbers.\n\nAnchoring results in a particularly strong bias when estimates are stated in the form of a confidence interval. An example is where people predict the value of a stock market index on a particular day by defining an upper and lower bound so that they are 98% confident the true value will fall in that range. A reliable finding is that people anchor their upper and lower bounds too close to their best estimate. This leads to an overconfidence effect. One much-replicated finding is that when people are 98% certain that a number is in a particular range, they are wrong about thirty to forty percent of the time.\n\nAnchoring also causes particular difficulty when many numbers are combined into a composite judgment. Tversky and Kahneman demonstrated this by asking a group of people to rapidly estimate the product 8 x 7 x 6 x 5 x 4 x 3 x 2 x 1. Another group had to estimate the same product in reverse order; 1 x 2 x 3 x 4 x 5 x 6 x 7 x 8. Both groups underestimated the answer by a wide margin, but the latter group's average estimate was significantly smaller. The explanation in terms of anchoring is that people multiply the first few terms of each product and anchor on that figure. A less abstract task is to estimate the probability that an aircraft will crash, given that there are numerous possible faults each with a likelihood of one in a million. A common finding from studies of these tasks is that people anchor on the small component probabilities and so underestimate the total. A corresponding effect happens when people estimate the probability of multiple events happening in sequence, such as an accumulator bet in horse racing. For this kind of judgment, anchoring on the individual probabilities results in an overestimation of the combined probability.\n\nPeople's valuation of goods, and the quantities they buy, respond to anchoring effects. In one experiment, people wrote down the last two digits of their social security numbers. They were then asked to consider whether they would pay this number of dollars for items whose value they did not know, such as wine, chocolate, and computer equipment. They then entered an auction to bid for these items. Those with the highest two-digit numbers submitted bids that were many times higher than those with the lowest numbers. When a stack of soup cans in a supermarket was labelled, \"Limit 12 per customer\", the label influenced customers to buy more cans. In another experiment, real estate agents appraised the value of houses on the basis of a tour and extensive documentation. Different agents were shown different listing prices, and these affected their valuations. For one house, the appraised value ranged from US$114,204 to $128,754.\n\nAnchoring and adjustment has also been shown to affect grades given to students. In one experiment, 48 teachers were given bundles of student essays, each of which had to be graded and returned. They were also given a fictional list of the students' previous grades. The mean of these grades affected the grades that teachers awarded for the essay.\n\nOne study showed that anchoring affected the sentences in a fictional rape trial. The subjects were trial judges with, on average, more than fifteen years of experience. They read documents including witness testimony, expert statements, the relevant penal code, and the final pleas from the prosecution and defence. The two conditions of this experiment differed in just one respect: the prosecutor demanded a 34-month sentence in one condition and 12 months in the other; there was an eight-month difference between the average sentences handed out in these two conditions. In a similar mock trial, the subjects took the role of jurors in a civil case. They were either asked to award damages \"in the range from $15 million to $50 million\" or \"in the range from $50 million to $150 million\". Although the facts of the case were the same each time, jurors given the higher range decided on an award that was about three times higher. This happened even though the subjects were explicitly warned not to treat the requests as evidence.\n\nAssessments can also be influenced by the stimuli provided. In one review, researchers found that if a stimuli is perceived to be important or carry \"weight\" to a situation, that people were more likely to attribute that stimuli as heavier physically.\n\n\"Affect\", in this context, is a feeling such as fear, pleasure or surprise. It is shorter in duration than a mood, occurring rapidly and involuntarily in response to a stimulus. While reading the words \"lung cancer\" might generate an affect of dread, the words \"mother's love\" can create an affect of affection and comfort. When people use affect (\"gut responses\") to judge benefits or risks, they are using the affect heuristic. The affect heuristic has been used to explain why messages framed to activate emotions are more persuasive than those framed in a purely factual way.\n\nThere are competing theories of human judgment, which differ on whether the use of heuristics is irrational. A \"cognitive laziness\" approach argues that heuristics are inevitable shortcuts given the limitations of the human brain. According to the \"natural assessments\" approach, some complex calculations are already done rapidly and automatically by the brain, and other judgments make use of these processes rather than calculating from scratch. This has led to a theory called \"attribute substitution\", which says that people often handle a complicated question by answering a different, related question, without being aware that this is what they are doing. A third approach argues that heuristics perform just as well as more complicated decision-making procedures, but more quickly and with less information. This perspective emphasises the \"fast and frugal\" nature of heuristics.\n\nAn \"effort-reduction framework\" proposed by Anuj K. Shah and Daniel M. Oppenheimer states that people use a variety of techniques to reduce the effort of making decisions.\n\nIn 2002 Daniel Kahneman and Shane Frederick proposed a process called attribute substitution which happens without conscious awareness. According to this theory, when somebody makes a judgment (of a \"target attribute\") which is computationally complex, a rather more easily calculated \"heuristic attribute\" is substituted. In effect, a difficult problem is dealt with by answering a rather simpler problem, without the person being aware this is happening. This explains why individuals can be unaware of their own biases, and why biases persist even when the subject is made aware of them. It also explains why human judgments often fail to show regression toward the mean.\n\nThis substitution is thought of as taking place in the automatic \"intuitive\" judgment system, rather than the more self-aware \"reflective\" system. Hence, when someone tries to answer a difficult question, they may actually answer a related but different question, without realizing that a substitution has taken place.\n\nIn 1975, psychologist Stanley Smith Stevens proposed that the strength of a stimulus (e.g. the brightness of a light, the severity of a crime) is encoded by brain cells in a way that is independent of modality. Kahneman and Frederick built on this idea, arguing that the target attribute and heuristic attribute could be very different in nature.\nKahneman and Frederick propose three conditions for attribute substitution:\n\nKahneman gives an example where some Americans were offered insurance against their own death in a terrorist attack while on a trip to Europe, while another group were offered insurance that would cover death of any kind on the trip. Even though \"death of any kind\" includes \"death in a terrorist attack\", the former group were willing to pay more than the latter. Kahneman suggests that the attribute of fear is being substituted for a calculation of the total risks of travel. Fear of terrorism for these subjects was stronger than a general fear of dying on a foreign trip. See Morewedge and Kahneman (2010), for a recent summary of attribute substitution.\n\nGerd Gigerenzer and colleagues have argued that heuristics can be used to make judgments that are accurate rather than biased. According to them, heuristics are \"fast and frugal\" alternatives to more complicated procedures, giving answers that are just as good.\n\nWarren Thorngate, an emeritus social psychologist, implemented 10 simple decision rules or heuristics in a simulation program as computer subroutines chose an alternative. He determined how often each heuristic selected alternatives with highest-through-lowest expected value in a series of randomly generated decision situations. He found that most of the simulated heuristics selected alternatives with highest expected value and almost never selected alternatives with lowest expected value. More information about the simulation can be found in his \"Efficient decision heuristics\" article (1980).\n\nPsychologist Benoît Monin reports a series of experiments in which subjects, looking at photographs of faces, have to judge whether they have seen those faces before. It is repeatedly found that attractive faces are more likely to be mistakenly labeled as familiar. Monin interprets this result in terms of attribute substitution. The heuristic attribute in this case is a \"warm glow\"; a positive feeling towards someone that might either be due to their being familiar or being attractive. This interpretation has been criticised, because not all the variance in familiarity is accounted for by the attractiveness of the photograph.\n\nLegal scholar Cass Sunstein has argued that attribute substitution is pervasive when people reason about moral, political or legal matters. Given a difficult, novel problem in these areas, people search for a more familiar, related problem (a \"prototypical case\") and apply its solution as the solution to the harder problem. According to Sunstein, the opinions of trusted political or religious authorities can serve as heuristic attributes when people are asked their own opinions on a matter. Another source of heuristic attributes is emotion: people's moral opinions on sensitive subjects like sexuality and human cloning may be driven by reactions such as disgust, rather than by reasoned principles. Sunstein has been challenged as not providing enough evidence that attribute substitution, rather than other processes, is at work in these cases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23716902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23716902", "title": "Hudde's rules", "text": "Hudde's rules\n\nIn mathematics, Hudde's rules are two properties of polynomial roots described by Johann Hudde.\n\n1. If \"r\" is a double root of the polynomial equation\n\n2. If for \"x\" = \"a\" the polynomial\n\nHudde was working with Frans van Schooten on a Latin edition of La Géométrie of René Descartes. In the 1859 edition of the translation, Hudde contributed two letters: \"Epistola prima de Redvctione Ǣqvationvm\" (pages 406 to 506), and \"Epistola secvnda de Maximus et Minimus\" (pages 507 to 16). These letters may be read by the Internet Archive link below.\n\n"}
{"id": "33164737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33164737", "title": "Human Rights Consultative Committee", "text": "Human Rights Consultative Committee\n\nThe Human Rights Consultative Committee is a civil rights organization in Malawi. They are committed to the promotion and protection of human rights for the Malawi. Their activities include advocacy, monitoring, information sharing, capacity building and resource mobilization for member institutions, government and key stakeholders. The organization has been involved in human rights issues in Malawi since July 1995. The committee consists of a network were Church Institutions, Human Rights NGOs and the Law Society of Malawi work together in areas of human rights, advocacy and information sharing. HRCC is thus works as a network of local Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) and Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) that have interest in protecting people’s rights, promoting the human rights agenda, and safeguarding governance and the rule of law.\n\nThe center was a target of an arson attack in March 2011.\n\nHRCC was one of the organizations that was in the forefront of organizing the nationwide the July 20th Protests in Malawi as well as the September 21, 2011 nationwide strike. Leaders of the protests from HRCC include director, Undule Mwakasungula and acting national coordinator Rev. MacDonald Sembereka. Their homes were both targets of arson in 2011 because of their work in human rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "4331787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4331787", "title": "Information integration theory", "text": "Information integration theory\n\nInformation integration theory was proposed by Norman H. Anderson to describe and model how a person integrates information from a number of sources in order to make an overall judgment. The theory proposes three functions.\n\nThe \"valuation function\" formula_1 is an empirically derived mapping of stimuli to an interval scale. It is unique up to an interval transformation (formula_2).\n\nThe \"integration function\" formula_3 is an algebraic function combining the subjective values of the information. \"Cognitive algebra\" refers to the class of functions that are used to model the integration process. They may be adding, averaging, weighted averaging, multiplying, etc.\n\nThe \"response production function\" formula_4 is the process by which the internal impression is translated into an overt response.\n\nInformation integration theory differs from other theories in that it is not erected on a consistency principle such as balance or congruity but rather relies on algebraic models.\nThe theory is also referred to as functional measurement, because it can provide validated scale values of the stimuli. \nAn elementary treatment of the theory, along with a Microsoft Windows program for carrying out functional measurement analysis, is provided in the textbook by David J. Weiss.\n\nThere are three main types of algebraic models used in information integration theory: adding, averaging, and multiplying.\n\nAdding models\nformula_5 reaction/overt behavior\nformula_6 contributing factors\n\nformula_7 (Condition 1)\nformula_8 (Condition 2)\n\nTypically an experiment is designed so that: \nformula_9, and\nformula_10, so that\nformula_11.\n\nThere are two special cases known as discounting and augmentation. \n\nDiscounting: The value of any factor is reduced if other factors that produce the same effect are added.\nExample: formula_12 is not present or has a value of zero. If formula_13 is positive, then G must be less than formula_14.\n\nAugmentation: An inverse version of the typical model.\nExample: If formula_13 is negative, then formula_16 must be greater than formula_14.\n\nTwo advantages of adding models; (1) Participants are not required to have an exact intuitive calculation, (2) The adding model itself need not be completely valid. Certain kinds of interaction among the factors would not affect the qualitative conclusions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2737898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2737898", "title": "International Religious Liberty Association", "text": "International Religious Liberty Association\n\nThe International Religious Liberty Association (IRLA) is a non-sectarian and non-political organization promoting religious freedom. It was originally organized by the Seventh-day Adventist Church leaders in 1893 to campaign for religious freedom for all when the danger of restrictions from blue laws became apparent. Its headquarters are in Silver Spring, Maryland in the United States.\n\nThe IRLA's mission statement says: \"The International Religious Liberty Association will disseminate the principles of religious liberty throughout the world; defend and safeguard the civil right of all people to worship or not to worship, to adopt a religion or belief of their choice, to manifest their religious convictions in observance, promulgation, and teaching, subject only to the respect for the equivalent rights of others; support the right of religious organizations to operate freely in every country by their establishing and owning charitable or educational institutions; and organize local, regional, and national chapters as well as seminars, and congresses.\"\n\nSince 2003, IRLA has organized the annual \"Religious Liberty Dinner\" to celebrate and bring attention to freedom of religion or belief, both in the United States and around the world. It also presents \"International Religious Freedom Award\" to individuals for their outstanding service to freedom of religion or belief. Previous awardees include H. Knox Thames (2007), Mikhail P. Kulakov (2008), David Saperstein (2009), Denton Lotz (2009), Dave Hunt (2010), Gunnar Stålsett (2011), Kit Bigelow (2011), Brian Grim (2016), and Thomas F. Farr (2017). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "19555171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19555171", "title": "Invitation to treat", "text": "Invitation to treat\n\nAn invitation to treat (or invitation to bargain in the United States) is a concept within contract law. In Andrew Burrows' words, an invitation to treat is\n\"...an expression of willingness to negotiate. A person making an invitation to treat does not intend to be bound as soon as it is accepted by the person to whom the statement is addressed.\"\nA contract is a legally binding voluntary agreement that is formed when one person makes an offer, and the other accepts it. There may be some preliminary discussion before an offer is formally made. Such pre-contractual representations are known variously as “invitations to treat”, “requests for information” or “statements of intention”.\n\nTrue offers may be accepted to form a contract, whereas representations such as invitations to treat may not. However, although an invitation to treat cannot be accepted it should not be ignored, for it may nevertheless affect the offer. For example, where an offer is made in response to an invitation to treat, the offer may incorporate the terms of the invitation to treat (unless the offer expressly incorporates different terms). If, as in the \"Boots\" case (described below) the offer is made by an action without any negotiations—such as presenting goods to a cashier—the offer will be presumed to be on the terms of the invitation to treat.\n\nGenerally, advertisements are not offers but invitations to treat, so the person advertising is not compelled to sell. In \"Partridge v Crittenden\" [1968] 1 WLR 1204, a defendant who was charged with \"offering for sale protected birds\"—bramblefinch cocks and hens that he had advertised for sale in a newspaper—was \"not\" offering to sell them. Lord Parker CJ said it did not make business sense for advertisements to be offers, as the person making the advertisement may find himself in a situation where he would be contractually obliged to sell more goods than he actually owned.\n\nIn certain circumstances called unilateral contracts, an advertisement can be an offer; as in \"Carlill v Carbolic Smoke Ball Company\" [1893] 1 QB 256, where it was held that the defendants, who advertised that they would pay £100 to anyone who sniffed a smoke ball in the prescribed manner and yet caught influenza, were contractually obliged to pay £100 to whomever accepted it by performing the required acts.\n\nA display of goods for sale in a shop window or within a shop is an invitation to treat, as in the \"Boots\" case, a leading case concerning supermarkets. The shop owner is thus not obliged to sell the goods, even if signage such as \"special offer\" accompanies the display. Also, in \"Fisher v Bell\" [1961] 1 QB 394, the display of a flick knife for sale in a shop did not contravene legislation which prohibited \"offering for sale an offensive weapon\". If a shop mistakenly displays an item for sale at a very low price it is not obliged to sell it for that amount.\nFor an offer to be capable of becoming binding on acceptance, the offer must be definite, clear, and objectively intended to be capable of acceptance.\n\nIn England, auctions are governed by the Sale of Goods Act 1979 (as amended). Section 57(2) provides: “A sale by auction is complete when the auctioneer announces its completion by the fall of the hammer, or in other customary manner. Until the announcement is made any bidder may retract his bid”. S. 57(3) provides further: “An auction sale may be subject to a reserve price”. However, if the auction is held \"without reserve\" then the auctioneer is obliged to sell to the highest bidder. It is implicit from \"Payne v Cave\" (1789), an early case concerning auctions, that each bid is deemed to expire when others make higher bids; but some auctioneers (such as eBay) have lawfully amended this presumption so that, should a higher bidder withdraw his bid, they may accept a lower one.\n\nThe tender process is a debated issue. In the case of \"Spencer v Harding\" the defendants offered to sell stock by tender, but the court held that there was no promise to sell to the highest bidder, merely an invitation for offers which they could then accept or reject at will. In \"exceptional\" circumstances an invitation for tenders may be an offer, as in \"Harvela Investments v Royal Trust of Canada\" [1986] where the court held that because defendants had made clear an intention to accept the highest tender, then the invitation to tender was an offer accepted by the person making the highest tender. The \"Harvela\" case also made it clear that \"referential bids\" are void as being \"contrary to public policy and not cricket\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51665640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51665640", "title": "Jasiri X", "text": "Jasiri X\n\nJasiri X (born Jasiri Oronde Smith) is a Pittsburgh-based rapper and activist who gained attention for his 2007 song \"Free the Jena 6.\" He is a recipient of the Rauschenberg Artist as Activist award and founder of anti-violence group 1Hood. In 2016, he was awarded an honorary doctorate from the Chicago Theological Seminary.\n\nJasiri X was born Jasiri Oronde Smith in Chicago, Illinois. In the 1980s he moved with his mother to Monroeville, Pennsylvania and attended Gateway High School, graduating at age 16. Intending to become a lawyer, he began college at the University of Maryland, then attended the University of Pittsburgh but did not finish college.\n\nAfter leaving school, Jasiri began spoken word, performing initially as Jo Smith. He also became an activist and was introduced to the Nation of Islam, taken by an acquaintance to a mosque in 1997. Jasiri met Louis Farrakhan a year later when Farrakhan was in Pittsburgh to support a boycott, and Jasiri subsequently registered as a member the Nation of Islam. In 2005, he became the minister of Muhammad Mosque No. 22 in Wilkinsburg.\n\nJasiri X has created music addressing social and political issues, including his 2007 song \"Free the Jena 6\", \"Trayvon\" following George Zimmerman's shooting of Trayvon Martin in February 2012, \"Do We Need to Start a Riot?\" and \"What if the Tea Party was Black?\" He encouraged other hip-hop artists to engage these concerns as well.\n\nIn 2010 he released his first album, \"American History X\". In 2013, he released a second album, called \"Ascension,\" with Vancouver label Wandering Worx\".\" In 2015, he released \"Black Liberation Theology\", with features from David Banner and Tef Poe among others. He has mentioned Nas, Wu-Tang Clan, Mobb Deep, Lauryn Hill, Tupac, the Notorious B.I.G., Public Enemy, and KRS-One as among his musical influences.\n\nJasiri X also has a YouTube-based show \"This Week with Jasiri X\" and has been an advocate for net neutrality particularly as it relates to protecting access for low-income people of color.\n\nIn 2006, he cofounded the anti-violence group 1Hood, which includes a media academy teaching young black boys to analyze media as well as create their own.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32080089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32080089", "title": "Jews Relief Act 1858", "text": "Jews Relief Act 1858\n\nThe Jews Relief Act 1858, also called the Jewish Disabilities Bill, is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which removed previous barriers to Jews entering Parliament.\n\nFollowing the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829 there had been an unsuccessful attempt in 1830 to also allow Jews to sit in Parliament. The 1858 measure was the result of a long process which began with a bill introduced by the Whig leader Lord John Russell following the election of Lionel de Rothschild to the City of London constituency in 1847. Rothschild could not take the seat without taking the Christian oath. The bill was supported by the future Conservative Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli but not by his party.\n\nIn 1848, the bill was approved by the House of Commons but was twice rejected by the House of Lords as was a new bill in 1851. In the 1852 general election, Rothschild was again elected but the next year the bill was again defeated in the upper house. Finally, in 1858, the House of Lords agreed to a proposal to allow each house to decide its own oath.\n\nThe bill allowed \"any Person professing the Jewish Religion, [to] omit the Words 'and I make this Declaration upon the true Faith of a Christian in their oaths, but explicitly did not extend to allowing Jews to various high offices, and also stated that \"it shall not be lawful for any Person professing the Jewish Religion, directly or indirectly, to advise Her Majesty ... touching or concerning ... any office or preferment in the Church of England or in the Church of Scotland.\"\n\nAmendments in 1871, 1922, 1973, 1980 and 1986 removed all restrictions on Jews holding office except that they may not advise certain government officials on matters related to appointments in the Church of England or the Church of Scotland.\n\n"}
{"id": "9272721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9272721", "title": "Kinematic diagram", "text": "Kinematic diagram\n\nA kinematic diagram or kinematic scheme illustrates the connectivity of links and joints of a mechanism or machine rather than the dimensions or shape of the parts. Often links are presented as geometric objects, such as lines, triangles or squares, that support schematic versions of the joints of the mechanism or machine. A kinematic diagram is sometimes called a joint map or a skeleton diagram.\n\nFor example, the figures show the kinematic diagrams (i) of the slider-crank that forms a piston and crank-shaft in an engine, and (ii) of the first three joints for a PUMA manipulator.\n\nA kinematic diagram can be formulated as a graph by representing the links of the mechanism as vertices and the joints as edges of the graph. This version of the kinematic diagram has proven effective in enumerating kinematic structures in the process of machine design.\n\nAn important consideration in this design process is the degree of freedom of the system of links and joints, which is determined using the Chebychev–Grübler–Kutzbach criterion.\n\nElements of kinematics diagrams include the frame, which is the frame of reference for all the moving components, as well as links (kinematic pairs), and joints. Primary Joints include pins, sliders and other elements that allow pure rotation or pure linear motion. Higher order joints also exist that allow a combination of rotation or linear motion. Kinematic diagrams also include points of interest, and other important components.\n\n"}
{"id": "43080609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43080609", "title": "Lee Gye-deok", "text": "Lee Gye-deok\n\nLee Gye-deok (Korean: 이계덕, born 20 November 1986) is a South Korean singer and activist for civil and human rights activist who promotes LGBT rights, typically for gay rights.\n\nLee was elected as a non-adult representative of the Democratic Labor Party of Korea and attracted a great deal of attention from the public, because that was the first case a youth was elected as a representative for a party. He resigned from his post due to his frustrations on the reality of the political field in Korea.\n\nLee was a riot police officer at Yongsan Police Station and the first Korean riot policeman who came out as gay.\n\nAs he continually called for dismantling of the Korean riot police, the Korean National Police Agency filed for a warrant for his arrest after reports he tried to touch the body parts of 13 colleagues without their permission. However, he and many people believed this was done in revenge, because Lee drew public attention when he came out of the closet earlier this year. He recently filed for a transfer saying the environment did not fit his work and political ethics. The Ministry of Defense of Korea has reportedly turned down the transfer request.\n\nEven though Lee was a policeman, he criticized the National Police in his song, the Seoul Central District Court has ruled that he is fee to do so.\n\nHe was dismissed as a riot policeman after three years of legal disputes with the agency.\n\nLee petitioned for an ad to be posted on Gyodae Station’s electronic banners that said “Anyone amongst Seoul’s citizens may be a sexual minority. All citizens have the right to not be discriminated against their sexual orientation.” He paid for it with 3 million won out of his own pocket.\n\nEunpyoung, Yongsan, Gwangjin, Geumcheon, Joonggu, Jongro Districts allowed the advertisement campaigns, but Seocho District rejected his advertisements and he said it was “discrimination without reason” and advised them to “find a way to prevent ads are not refused just because the subject matter is about homosexuality or other sexual orientations.” They revealed that “Even if a few members of society who hold hatred and prejudices against homosexuality send in complaints about an ad about gay awareness, the national and regional government has an obligation to protect and form a social consensus so that social minorities do not become the target of unfair discrimination and oppression.”.\n"}
{"id": "8746727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8746727", "title": "Level of support for evolution", "text": "Level of support for evolution\n\nThe level of support for evolution among scientists, the public and other groups is a topic that frequently arises in the creation-evolution controversy and touches on educational, religious, philosophical, scientific and political issues. The subject is especially contentious in countries where significant levels of non-acceptance of evolution by general society exist although evolution is taught at school and university.\n\nNearly all (around 97%) of the scientific community accepts evolution as the dominant scientific theory of biological diversity. Scientific associations have strongly rebutted and refuted the challenges to evolution proposed by intelligent design proponents.\n\nThere are religious sects and denominations in several countries for whom the theory of evolution is in conflict with creationism that is central to their beliefs, and who therefore reject it: in the United States, South Africa, India, South Korea, Singapore, the Philippines, and Brazil, with smaller followings in the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, Japan, Italy, Germany, Israel, Australia, New Zealand, and Canada.\n\nSeveral publications discuss the subject of acceptance, including a document produced by the United States National Academy of Sciences.\n\nThe vast majority of the scientific community and academia supports evolutionary theory as the only explanation that can fully account for observations in the fields of biology, paleontology, molecular biology, genetics, anthropology, and others. A 1991 Gallup poll found that about 5% of American scientists (including those with training outside biology) identified themselves as creationists.\n\nAdditionally, the scientific community considers intelligent design, a neo-creationist offshoot, to be unscientific, pseudoscience, or junk science. The U.S. National Academy of Sciences has stated that intelligent design \"and other claims of supernatural intervention in the origin of life\" are not science because they cannot be tested by experiment, do not generate any predictions, and propose no new hypotheses of their own. In September 2005, 38 Nobel laureates issued a statement saying \"Intelligent design is fundamentally unscientific; it cannot be tested as scientific theory because its central conclusion is based on belief in the intervention of a supernatural agent.\" In October 2005, a coalition representing more than 70,000 Australian scientists and science teachers issued a statement saying \"intelligent design is not science\" and calling on \"all schools not to teach Intelligent Design (ID) as science, because it fails to qualify on every count as a scientific theory\".\n\nIn 1986, an \"amicus curiae\" brief, signed by 72 US Nobel Prize winners, 17 state academies of science and 7 other scientific societies, asked the US Supreme Court in \"Edwards v. Aguillard\", to reject a Louisiana state law requiring that where evolutionary science was taught in public schools, creation science must also be taught. The brief also stated that the term \"creation science\" as used by the law embodied religious dogma, and that \"teaching religious ideas mislabeled as science is detrimental to scientific education\". This was the largest collection of Nobel Prize winners to sign a petition up to that point. According to anthropologists Almquist and Cronin, the brief is the \"clearest statement by scientists in support of evolution yet produced.\"\n\nThere are many scientific and scholarly organizations from around the world that have issued statements in support of the theory of evolution. The American Association for the Advancement of Science, the world's largest general scientific society with more than 130,000 members and over 262 affiliated societies and academies of science including over 10 million individuals, has made several statements and issued several press releases in support of evolution. The prestigious United States National Academy of Sciences, which provides science advice to the nation, has published several books supporting evolution and criticising creationism and intelligent design.\n\nThere is a notable difference between the opinion of scientists and that of the general public in the United States. A 2009 poll by Pew Research Center found that \"Nearly all scientists (97%) say humans and other living things have evolved over time – 87% say evolution is due to natural processes, such as natural selection. The dominant position among scientists – that living things have evolved due to natural processes – is shared by only about a third (32%) of the public.\"\n\nOne of the earliest resolutions in support of evolution was issued by the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1922, and readopted in 1929.\n\nAnother early effort to express support for evolution by scientists was organized by Nobel Prize–winning American biologist Hermann J. Muller in 1966. Muller circulated a petition entitled \"Is Biological Evolution a Principle of Nature that has been well established by Science?\" in May 1966:\n\nThis manifesto was signed by 177 of the leading American biologists, including George G. Simpson of Harvard University, Nobel Prize Winner Peter Agre of Duke University, Carl Sagan of Cornell, John Tyler Bonner of Princeton, Nobel Prize Winner George Beadle, President of the University of Chicago, and Donald F. Kennedy of Stanford University, formerly head of the United States Food and Drug Administration.\n\nThis was followed by the passing of a resolution by the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) in the fall of 1972 that stated, in part, \"the theory of creation ... is neither scientifically grounded nor capable of performing the rules required of science theories\". The United States National Academy of Sciences also passed a similar resolution in the fall of 1972. A statement on evolution called \"A Statement Affirming Evolution as a Principle of Science.\" was signed by Nobel Prize Winner Linus Pauling, Isaac Asimov, George G. Simpson, Caltech Biology Professor Norman H. Horowitz, Ernst Mayr, and others, and published in 1977. The governing board of the American Geological Institute issued a statement supporting resolution in November 1981.\nShortly thereafter, the AAAS passed another resolution supporting evolution and disparaging efforts to teach creationism in science classes.\n\nTo date, there are no scientifically peer-reviewed research articles that disclaim evolution listed in the scientific and medical journal search engine Pubmed.\n\nThe Discovery Institute announced that over 700 scientists had expressed support for intelligent design as of February 8, 2007. This prompted the National Center for Science Education to produce a \"light-hearted\" petition called \"Project Steve\" in support of evolution. Only scientists named \"Steve\" or some variation (such as Stephen, Stephanie, and Stefan) are eligible to sign the petition. It is intended to be a \"tongue-in-cheek parody\" of the lists of alleged \"scientists\" supposedly supporting creationist principles that creationist organizations produce. The petition demonstrates that there are more scientists who accept evolution with a name like \"Steve\" alone (over 1370) than there are in total who support intelligent design. This is, again, why the percentage of scientists who support evolution has been estimated by Brian Alters to be about 99.9 percent.\n\nMany creationists act as evangelists and their organizations are registered as tax-free religious organizations. Creationists have claimed that they represent the interests of true Christians, and evolution is associated only with atheism.\n\nHowever, not all religious organizations find support for evolution incompatible with their religious faith. For example, 12 of the plaintiffs opposing the teaching of creation science in the influential \"McLean v. Arkansas\" court case were clergy representing Methodist, Episcopal, African Methodist Episcopal, Catholic, Southern Baptist, Reform Jewish, and Presbyterian groups. There are several religious organizations that have issued statements advocating the teaching of evolution in public schools. In addition, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Rowan Williams, issued statements in support of evolution in 2006. The Clergy Letter Project is a signed statement by 12,808 (as of 28 May 2012) American Christian clergy of different denominations rejecting creationism organized in 2004. Molleen Matsumura of the National Center for Science Education found, of Americans in the twelve largest Christian denominations, at least 77% belong to churches that support evolution education (and that at one point, this figure was as high as 89.6%). These religious groups include the Catholic Church, as well as various denominations of Protestantism, including the United Methodist Church, National Baptist Convention, USA, Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, Presbyterian Church (USA), National Baptist Convention of America, African Methodist Episcopal Church, the Episcopal Church, and others. A figure closer to about 71% is presented by the analysis of Walter B. Murfin and David F. Beck.\n\nMichael Shermer argued in Scientific American in October 2006 that evolution supports concepts like family values, avoiding lies, fidelity, moral codes and the rule of law. Shermer also suggests that evolution gives more support to the notion of an omnipotent creator, rather than a tinkerer with limitations based on a human model.\n\nThe Ahmadiyya Movement universally accepts evolution and actively promotes it. Mirza Tahir Ahmad, Fourth Caliph of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community has stated in his magnum opus \"Revelation, Rationality, Knowledge & Truth\" that evolution did occur but only through God being the One who brings it about. It does not occur itself, according to the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community. The Ahmadis do not believe Adam was the first human on earth, but merely the first prophet to receive a revelation of God.\n\nA fundamental part of `Abdul-Bahá's teachings on evolution is the belief that all life came from the same origin: \"the origin of all material life is one...\" He states that from this sole origin, the complete diversity of life was generated: \"Consider the world of created beings, how varied and diverse they are in species, yet with one sole origin\" He explains that a slow, gradual process led to the development of complex entities:\n\nThe 1950 encyclical \"Humani generis\" advocated scepticism towards evolution without explicitly rejecting it; this was substantially amended by Pope John-Paul II in 1996 in an address to the Pontifical Academy of Sciences in which he said, \"Today, almost half a century after publication of the encyclical, new knowledge has led to the recognition of the theory of evolution as more than a hypothesis.\" Between 2000 and 2002 the International Theological Commission found that \"Converging evidence from many studies in the physical and biological sciences furnishes mounting support for some theory of evolution to account for the development and diversification of life on earth, while controversy continues over the pace and mechanisms of evolution.\" This statement was published by the Vatican on July 2004 by the authority of Cardinal Ratzinger (who became Pope Benedict XVI) who was the president of the Commission at the time.\n\nThe Magisterium has not made an authoritative statement on intelligent design, and has permitted arguments on both sides of the issue. In 2005, Cardinal Christoph Schönborn of Vienna appeared to endorse intelligent design when he denounced philosophically materialist interpretations of evolution. In an op-ed in the New York Times he said \"Evolution in the sense of common ancestry might be true, but evolution in the neo-Darwinian sense - an unguided, unplanned process of random variation and natural selection - is not.\" This common line of reasoning among fundamentalist theologians is flawed, as evolution by natural selection is not random at all; only mutations occur in a stochastic manner, while natural selection establishes genes which aid survival in a particular environment.\n\nIn the January 16–17 2006 edition of the official Vatican newspaper \"L'Osservatore Romano\", University of Bologna evolutionary biology Professor Fiorenzo Facchini wrote an article agreeing with the judge's ruling in \"Kitzmiller v. Dover\" and stating that intelligent design was unscientific. Jesuit Father George Coyne, former director of the Vatican Observatory, has also denounced intelligent design.\n\nHindus believe in the concept of evolution of life on Earth. The concepts of Dashavatara—different incarnations of God starting from simple organisms and progressively becoming complex beings—and Day and Night of Brahma are generally cited as instances of Hindu acceptance of evolution.\n\nIn the United States, many Protestant denominations promote creationism, preach against evolution, and sponsor lectures and debates on the subject. Denominations that explicitly advocate creationism instead of evolution or \"Darwinism\" include the Assemblies of God, the Free Methodist Church, Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod, Pentecostal Churches, Seventh-day Adventist Churches, Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod, Christian Reformed Church, Southern Baptist Convention, and the Pentecostal Oneness churches. Jehovah's Witnesses produce gap creationism and day-age creationism literature to refute evolution but reject the \"creationist\" label, which they consider to apply only to Young Earth creationism.\n\nA common complaint of creationists is that evolution is of no value, has never been used for anything, and will never be of any use. According to many creationists, nothing would be lost by getting rid of evolution, and science and industry might even benefit.\n\nIn fact, evolution is being put to practical use in industry and widely used on a daily basis by researchers in medicine, biochemistry, molecular biology, and genetics to both formulate hypotheses about biological systems for the purposes of experimental design, as well as to rationalise observed data and prepare applications. As of August 2017 there are 487,558 scientific papers in PubMed that mention 'evolution'. Pharmaceutical companies utilize biological evolution in their development of new products, and also use these medicines to combat evolving bacteria and viruses.\n\nBecause of the perceived value of evolution in applications, there have been some expressions of support for evolution on the part of corporations. In Kansas, there has been some widespread concern in the corporate and academic communities that a move to weaken the teaching of evolution in schools will hurt the state's ability to recruit the best talent, particularly in the biotech industry. Paul Hanle of the Biotechnology Institute warned that the United States risks falling behind in the biotechnology race with other nations if it does not do a better job of teaching evolution. James McCarter of Divergence Incorporated stated that the work of 2001 Nobel Prize winner Leland Hartwell relied heavily on the use of evolutionary knowledge and predictions, both of which have significant implications for the treatment of cancers. Furthermore, McCarter concluded that 47 of the last 50 Nobel Prizes in medicine or physiology depended on an understanding of evolutionary theory (according to McCarter's unspecified personal criteria).\n\nThere are also many educational organizations that have issued statements in support of the theory of evolution.\n\nRepeatedly, creationists and intelligent design advocates have lost suits in US courts. Here is a list of important court cases in which creationists have suffered setbacks:\n\n\nThere does not appear to be significant correlation between believing in evolution and understanding evolutionary science. In some countries, creationist beliefs (or a lack of support for evolutionary theory) are relatively widespread, even garnering a majority of public opinion. A study published in \"Science\" compared attitudes about evolution in the United States, 32 European countries (including Turkey) and Japan. The only country where acceptance of evolution was lower than in the United States was Turkey (25%). Public acceptance of evolution was most widespread (at over 80% of the population) in Iceland, Denmark and Sweden.\nAccording to the PEW research center, Afghanistan has the lowest acceptance of evolution in the Muslim countries. Only 26% of people in Afghanistan accept evolution. 62% deny human evolution and believe that humans have always existed in their present form..\n\nAccording to a 2014 poll produced by the Pew Research Center, 71% of people in Argentina believe \"humans and other living things evolved over time\" while 23% believe they have \"always existed in the present form.\"\nAccording to the PEW research, 56 percent of Armenians deny human evolution & claim that humans have always existed in their present and only 34 percent of Armenians accept human evolution.\n\nA 2009 poll showed that almost a quarter of Australians believe \"the biblical account of human origins\" over the Darwinian account. 42 percent of Australians believe in a \"wholly scientific\" explanation for the origins of life, while 32 percent believe in an evolutionary process \"guided by God\".\n\nA 2010 survey conducted by Auspoll and the Australian Academy of Science found that 79% of Australians believe in evolution (71% believe it is currently occurring, 8% believe in evolution but do not think it is currently occurring), 11% were not sure and 10% stated they do not believe in evolution.\n\nAccording to a 2014 poll by the Pew Research Center, 44% of people in Bolivia believe \"humans and other living things evolved over time\" while 39% believe they have \"always existed in the present form.\"\n\nIn a 2010 poll, 59% of respondents said they believe in theistic evolution, or evolution guided by God. A further 8% believe in evolution without divine intervention, while 25% were creationists. Support for creationism was stronger among the poor and the least educated. According to a 2014 poll produced by the Pew Research Center, 66% of Brazilians agree that humans evolved over time and 29% think they have always existed in the present form.\n\nIn a 2012 poll, 61% of Canadians believe that humans evolved from less advanced life forms, while 22% believe that God created human beings in their present form within the last 10,000 years.\n\nAccording to a 2014 poll by the Pew Research Center, 69% of people in Chile believe \"humans and other living things evolved over time\" while 26% believe they have \"always existed in the present form.\"\n\nAccording to a 2014 poll by the Pew Research Center, 59% of people in Colombia believe \"humans and other living things evolved over time\" while 35% believe they have \"always existed in the present form.\"\n\nAccording to a 2014 poll by the Pew Research Center, 56% of people in Costa Rica believe \"humans and other living things evolved over time\" while 38% believe they have \"always existed in the present form.\"\n\nAccording to the PEW research center,the Czech Republic has the highest acceptance of evolution in Eastern Europe. 83 percent people in the Czech Republic believe that humans evolved over time.\n\nAccording to a 2014 poll by the Pew Research Center, 41% of people in Dominican Republic believe \"humans and other living things evolved over time\" while 56% believe they have \"always existed in the present form.\"\n\nAccording to a 2014 poll by the Pew Research Center, 50% of people in Ecuador believe \"humans and other living things evolved over time\" while 44% believe they have \"always existed in the present form.\"\n\nAccording to a 2014 poll by the Pew Research Center, 46% of people in El Salvador believe \"humans and other living things evolved over time\" while 45% believe they have \"always existed in the present form.\"\n\nAccording to a 2014 poll by the Pew Research Center, 55% of people in Guatemala believe \"humans and other living things evolved over time\" while 38% believe they have \"always existed in the present form.\"\n\nAccording to a 2014 poll by the Pew Research Center, 49% of people in Honduras believe \"humans and other living things evolved over time\" while 45% believe they have \"always existed in the present form.\"\n\nAccording to the PEW research center, Kazakhstan has the highest acceptance of evolution in the Muslim countries. 79% of \npeople in Kazakhstan acceptance the theory of evolution.\n\nAmong those who had heard of Charles Darwin and knew something about the theory of evolution, 77% of people in India agree that enough scientific evidence exists to support Charles Darwin’s Theory of Evolution. Also, 85% of God believing Indians who know about evolution agree that life on earth evolved over time as a result of natural selection.\n\nIn a survey carried among 10 major nations, the highest proportion that agreed that evolutionary theories alone should be taught in schools was in India, at 49%.\n\nIn a recent survey conducted across 12 states in India, public acceptence of evolution stood at 65.5% across Indian population. Highest acceptence was found in Delhi, Maharashtra and Kerala (all above 78%) while the least was found to be in Haryana (41.3%). Males were marginally more likely to accept the evolution compared with females (72% vs. 69%), and non-religious people compared with religious people (74% vs. 67%). Surprisingly people who identified as ‘rightists’ accepted the evolution more than those who identified themselves as ‘leftists’ (66% vs. 61%) in political spectra. The study also identified teachers and students (over 73%) as most likely to accept evolution while employed adults (59%) least. While at the international level, the trend is quite clear that religiosity is inversely proportional to public acceptance of evolution, situation in India was strikingly opposite. Lead author, Dr. Felix Bast from Central University of Punjab conjectured possible reason for high public acceptance of evolution in India despite the fact of high religiosity is that Hinduism does not conflict Darwin’s theory of evolution to a large extent. According to 2011 census, Hindus encompass 80.3% of Indian population. Many concepts of Vedas and Hinduism support the scientific consensus of geology, climate science and evolution to a large extent. For example, according to Rigveda, the age of earth is 1.97 billion years, which is very old compared with that of creation myth propounded by Abrahamic religions (according to creationism-also called Intelligent Design, the age of earth is around 6000 years). Current scientific consensus of the age of earth is 4.543 billion years. A number of evolutionary biologists in the past as well were baffled about the surprising similarity between evolutionary theory and Hinduism. British evolutionary biologist JBS Haldane, for instance, suggested that Hindu concept of \"dashavatara\"- the ten incarnations of lord Vishnu- is a rough idea of vertebrate evolution (fish-the vertebrate to tortoise-reptile to boar-mammal to man). Vedic concepts of \"pralaya\" and \"mahapralaya\" too surprisingly capture the cyclic nature of global climate (glacial-interglacial cycles).\n\nA 2009 survey conducted by the McGill researchers and their international collaborators found that 85% of Indonesian high school students agreed with the statement, \"Millions of fossils show that life has existed for billions of years and changed over time.\"\n\nThe theory of evolution is a 'hard sell' in schools in Israel. More than half of Israeli Jews accept the human evolution while more than 40% deny human evolution & claim that humans have always existed in their present form. \n\nAccording to a 2014 poll by the Pew Research Center, 64% of people in Mexico believe \"humans and other living things evolved over time\" while 32% believe they have \"always existed in the present form.\"\n\nAccording to a 2014 poll by the Pew Research Center, 47% of people in Nicaragua believe \"humans and other living things evolved over time\" while 48% believe they have \"always existed in the present form.\"\n\nAccording to a 2008 Norstat poll for NRK, 59% of the Norwegian population fully accept evolution, 24% somewhat agree with the theory, 4% somewhat disagree with the theory while 8% do not accept evolution. 4% did not know.\n\nA 2009 survey conducted by the McGill researchers and their international collaborators found that 86% of Pakistani high school students agreed with the statement, \"Millions of fossils show that life has existed for billions of years and changed over time.\"\n\nAccording to a 2014 poll by the Pew Research Center, 61% of people in Panama believe \"humans and other living things evolved over time\" while 34% believe they have \"always existed in the present form.\"\n\nAccording to a 2014 poll by the Pew Research Center, 59% of people in Paraguay believe \"humans and other living things evolved over time\" while 30% believe they have \"always existed in the present form.\"\n\nAccording to a 2014 poll by the Pew Research Center, 51% of people in Peru believe \"humans and other living things evolved over time\" while 39% believe they have \"always existed in the present form.\"\n\nA 2006 UK poll on the \"origin and development of life\" asked participants to choose between three different explanations for the origin of life: 22% chose (Young Earth) creationism, 17% opted for intelligent design (\"certain features of living things are best explained by the intervention of a supernatural being, e.g. God\"), 48% selected evolution theory (with a divine role explicitly excluded) and the rest did not know. A 2009 poll found that only 38% of Britons believe God played no role in evolution. In a 2012 poll, 69% of Britons believe that humans evolved from less advanced life forms, while 17% believe that God created human beings in their present forms within the last 10,000 years.\n\nUS courts have ruled in favor of teaching evolution in science classrooms, and against teaching creationism, in numerous cases such as Edwards v. Aguillard, Hendren v. Campbell, McLean v. Arkansas and Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District.\n\nA prominent organization in the United States behind the intelligent design movement is the Discovery Institute, which, through its Center for Science and Culture, conducts a number of public relations and lobbying campaigns aimed at influencing the public and policy makers in order to advance its position in academia. The Discovery Institute claims that because there is a significant lack of public support for evolution, that public schools should, as their campaign states, \"Teach the Controversy\", although there is no controversy over the validity of evolution within the scientific community.\n\nThe US has one of the highest levels of public belief in biblical or other religious accounts of the origins of life on earth among industrialized countries. However according to the PEW research center, 62 percent of adults in the United States accept human evolution and while 34 percent of adults believe that humans have always existed in their present form. The poll involved over 35,000 adults in the United States. However acceptance of evolution varies per state. For example the State of Vermont has the highest acceptance of evolution of any other State in the United States. 79% people in Vermont accept human evolution. Mississippi has the lowest acceptance of evolution of any other State in the United States.\nA 2017 Gallup creationism survey found that 38% of adults in the United States inclined to the view that \"God created humans in their present form at one time within the last 10,000 years\" when asked for their views on the origin and development of human beings, which was noted as being at the lowest level in 35 years. 19% believed that \"human beings have developed over millions of years from less advanced forms of life, but God had no part in this process\", despite 49% of respondents indicating they believed in evolution. Belief in creationism is inversely correlated to education; only 22% of those with post-graduate degrees believe in strict creationism. (The level of support for strict creationism could be even lower when poll results are adjusted after comparison with other polls with questions that more specifically account for uncertainty and ambivalence.A 2000 poll for People for the American Way found 70% of the American public felt that evolution was compatible with a belief in God.\n\nA 2005 Pew Research Center poll found that 70% of evangelical Christians believed that living organisms have not changed since their creation, but only 31% of Catholics and 32% of mainline Protestants shared this opinion. A 2005 Harris Poll estimated that 63% of liberals and 37% of conservatives agreed that humans and other primates have a common ancestry.\n\nAccording to a 2014 poll produced by the Pew Research Center, 74% of people in Uruguay believe \"humans and other living things evolved over time\" while 20% believe they have \"always existed in the present form.\"\n\nAccording to a 2014 poll by the Pew Research Center, 63% of people in Venezuela believe \"humans and other living things evolved over time\" while 33% believe they have \"always existed in the present form.\"\n\nThe level of assent that evolution garners has changed with time. The trends in acceptance of evolution can be estimated.\n\nThe level of support for evolution in different communities has varied with time. Darwin's theory had convinced almost every naturalist within 20 years of its publication in 1858, and was making serious inroads with the public and the more liberal clergy. It had reached such extremes, that by 1880, one\nAmerican religious weekly publication estimated that \"perhaps a quarter, perhaps a half of the educated ministers in our leading Evangelical denominations\" felt \"that the story of the creation and fall of man, told in Genesis, is no more the record of actual occurrences than is the parable of the Prodigal Son.\"\n\nBy the late 19th century, many of the most conservative Christians accepted an ancient earth, and life on earth before Eden. Victorian Era Creationists were more akin to people who subscribe to theistic evolution today. Even fervent anti-evolutionist Scopes Trial prosecutor William Jennings Bryan interpreted the \"days\" of Genesis as ages of the earth, and acknowledged that biochemical evolution took place, drawing the line only at the story of Adam and Eve's creation. Prominent pre-World War II creationist Harry Rimmer allowed an Old Earth by slipping millions of years into putative gaps in the Genesis account, and claimed that the Noachian Flood was only a local phenomenon.\n\nIn the decades of the 20th century, George McCready Price and a tiny group of Seventh-day Adventist followers were among the very few believers in a Young Earth and a worldwide flood, which Price championed in his \"new catastrophism\" theories. It was not until the publication of John C. Whitcomb, Jr., and Henry M. Morris’s book \"Genesis Flood\" in 1961 that Price's idea was revived. In the last few decades, many creationists have adopted Price's beliefs, becoming progressively more strict biblical literalists.\n\nIn a 1991 Gallup poll, 47% of the US population, and 25% of college graduates agreed with the statement, \"God created man pretty much in his present form at one time within the last 10,000 years.\"\n\nFourteen years\nlater, in 2005, Gallup found that 53% of Americans expressed the belief that \"God created human beings in their present form exactly the way the Bible describes it.\" About 2/3 (65.5%) of those surveyed thought that creationism was definitely or probably true. In 2005 a Newsweek poll discovered that 80 percent of the American public thought that \"God created the universe.\" and the Pew Research Center reported that \"nearly two-thirds of Americans say that creationism should be taught alongside evolution in public schools.\" Ronald Numbers commented on that with \"Most surprising of all was the discovery that large numbers of high-school biology teachers — from 30% in Illinois and 38% in Ohio to a whopping 69% in Kentucky — supported the teaching of creationism.\"\n\nThe National Center for Science Education reports that from 1985 to 2005, the number of Americans unsure about evolution increased from 7% to 21%, while the number rejecting evolution declined from 48% to 39%. Jon Miller of Michigan State University has found in his polls that the number of Americans who accept evolution has declined from 45% to 40% from 1985 to 2005.\n\nIn light of these somewhat contradictory results, it is difficult to know for sure what is happening to public opinion on evolution in the US. It does not appear that either side is making unequivocal progress. It does appear that uncertainty about the issue is increasing, however.\n\nAnecdotal evidence is that creationism is becoming more of an issue in the UK as well. One report in 2006 was that UK students are increasingly arriving ill-prepared to participate in medical studies or other advanced education.\n\nThe level of support for creationism among relevant scientists is minimal. In 2007 the Discovery Institute reported that about 600 scientists signed their \"A Scientific Dissent from Darwinism\" list, up from 100 in 2001. The actual statement of the Scientific Dissent from Darwinism is a relatively mild one that expresses skepticism about the absoluteness of 'Darwinism' (and is in line with the falsifiability required of scientific theories) to explain all features of life, and does not in any way represent an absolute denial or rejection of evolution. By contrast, a tongue-in-cheek response known as Project Steve, a list restricted to scientists named Steve, Stephanie etc. who agree that evolution is \"a vital, well-supported, unifying principle of the biological sciences,\" has 1,382 signatories . People with these names make up approximately 1% of the total U.S. population.\n\nThe United States National Science Foundation statistics on US yearly science graduates demonstrate that from 1987 to 2001, the number of biological science graduates increased by 59% while the number of geological science graduates decreased by 20.5%. However, the number of geology graduates in 2001 was only 5.4% of the number of graduates in the biological sciences, while it was 10.7% of the number of biological science graduates in 1987. The Science Resources Statistics Division of the National Science Foundation estimated that in 1999, there were 955,300 biological scientists in the US (about 1/3 of who hold graduate degrees). There were also 152,800 earth scientists in the US as well.\n\nA large fraction of the Darwin Dissenters have specialties unrelated to research on evolution; of the dissenters, three-quarters are not biologists. As of 2006, the dissenter list was expanded to include non-US scientists.\n\nSome researchers are attempting to understand the factors that affect people's acceptance of evolution. Studies have yielded inconsistent results, explains associate professor of education at Ohio State University, David Haury. He recently performed a study that found people are likely to reject evolution if they have feelings of uncertainty, regardless of how well they understand evolutionary theory. Haury believes that teachers need to show students that their intuitive feelings may be misleading (for example, using the Wason selection task), and thus to exercise caution when relying on them as they judge the rational merits of ideas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38365010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38365010", "title": "London Sake Challenge", "text": "London Sake Challenge\n\nLondon Sake Challenge (LSC), established in 2012 by the Sake Sommelier Association and its founders Xavier Chapelou and Kumiko Ohta, is an annual sake competition held at Harrods, and is the first competition of its kind. Products submitted from breweries all over Japan are evaluated by sake sommeliers from around the world and judged by taste, quality, labelling and packaging. The first competition took place on 20 August 2012, during 2012 London Olympic Games.\n\nThe purpose of the event is to recognise outstanding premium sakes. It aims to promote the consumption of sake by highlighting a new market where sake is matched with non-oriental food. It also seeks to increase public awareness and fashionability of the drink in the world.\n\nEvery sake is assessed independently, not comparatively. Sake sommeliers and jury members evaluate each sake by scoring appearance, flavour and taste in the first round of blind tasting. Labelling and packaging are assessed separately in the second round. Sake sommeliers score sakes from 0 to 5 stars.\n\nThe competition awards gold, silver and bronze medals to the highest scoring sakes in accordance with the judging criteria. \nAward winners receive correspondent medal stickers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26869128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26869128", "title": "Loss of rights due to conviction for criminal offense", "text": "Loss of rights due to conviction for criminal offense\n\nLoss of rights due to criminal conviction refers to the practice in some countries of reducing the rights of individuals who have been convicted of a criminal offence. The restrictions are in addition to other penalties such as incarceration or fines. In addition to restrictions imposed directly upon conviction, there can also be collateral civil consequences resulting from a criminal conviction, but which are not imposed directly by the courts as a result of the conviction.\n\nIn Canada, criminal law is a federal matter, set out in the Criminal Code. Restrictions can be placed on certain activities following a conviction involving: (1) the use of weapons in the commission of a criminal offence; (2) driving a vehicle while impaired by alcohol or drugs; (3) electoral corruption.\n\nWhen a person is convicted of an offence in which the person used a weapon, or threatened to use a weapon, the sentencing court has the power to prohibit the person from possessing a weapon for a certain period of time. In the case of certain offences, the prohibition on possession is mandatory. In other cases, the court has discretion whether to impose a prohibition on possession.\n\nFor first offences, the court can set the prohibition period as any time up to ten years. For subsequent offences, the convicted person is prohibited from possessing a weapon for life. However, even for first offences, the court can impose a lifetime prohibition if the convicted person used a weapon against the convicted person's intimate partner, the convicted person's children, or any person living with the convicted person. As well, there is a lifetime prohibition on possessing prohibited firearms or weapons (such as fully automatic firearms), and restricted firearms (such as handguns).\n\nThe \"Criminal Code\" contains several offences related to driving a motor vehicle, including driving while impaired or with a blood alcohol count greater than eighty milligrams of alcohol in one hundred millilitres of blood (\".08\"), impaired or .08 driving causing bodily harm or death, dangerous driving (including dangerous driving causing bodily harm or death), and street racing. A person convicted of one of these offences can be subject to a prohibition on driving a motor vehicle for a certain period of time.\n\nFor convictions for impaired driving or driving over .08, the court must impose a mandatory driving prohibition of at least one year and not more than three years for a first offence. The length of the mandatory driving prohibitions increase with second and subsequent offences. If the convicted person participates in an interlock program, the length of the prohibition may be reduced, but must be at least three months. Similar mandatory prohibition orders are imposed for offences involving a motor vehicle which cause bodily harm or death and for street racing.\n\nFor offences other than impaired driving/.08 or street racing, or not involving bodily harm or death, the sentencing court has discretion to impose driving prohibitions.\n\nIn addition to the driving prohibitions under the \"Criminal Code\", there may be collateral civil consequences. For example, driver licences are issued under provincial law. All provinces will cancel the driver licence of a person convicted of certain driving offences under the \"Criminal Code\".\n\nThe \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" guarantees that all Canadian citizens have the right to vote in federal and provincial elections. The Supreme Court of Canada has held that even if a Canadian citizen has committed a criminal offence and is incarcerated, they retain the constitutional right to vote. In the 2015 federal election, more than 22,000 inmates in federal correctional institutes were eligible to vote.\nThere is one exception to this general principle. The Supreme Court has held that if a person is convicted of corrupt electoral practices, they can be evicted from the legislature, barred from being nominated for election for a set period, and denied the right to vote for a set period. These restrictions are acceptable because they are a sanction aimed at the very offence committed by the individual, rather than being a general disenfranchisement. The restrictions are aimed at healing the corrupted electoral process, which itself is a constitutional value, and therefore can be justified for limited periods.\n\nWithin the United Kingdom, criminal law is primarily a matter of the four constituent countries. After a conviction, an offender can, in some cases, lose:\n\nIn the United States, loss of rights due to criminal conviction can take several forms, including voting disenfranchisement, exclusion from jury duty, and loss of the right to possess firearms\n\nEvery state with the exception of Maine and Vermont prohibits felons from voting while in prison. Nine other states disenfranchise felons for various lengths of time following the completion of their probation or parole. However, the severity of each state's disenfranchisement varies. 1 in 43 adults were disenfranchised as of 2006. The issue of disenfranchisement gained awareness in 2000 after the \"excruciatingly close\" presidential election, wherein 2% of the voting-age population was prohibited from participating. In that election, George W. Bush won Florida by 537 votes, however 31% of black Floridians were denied the vote due to disenfranchisement. Given that African American voters are typically Democratic voters, it was argued at the time that their exclusion \"decisively\" changed the outcome of the election.\n\nIn \"Reynolds v. Sims\", the Court ruled that the right to vote is a \"fundamental right,\" establishing a strict scrutiny test. Further, the Fourteenth Amendment guarantees \"equal protection of the laws\" to all persons. However, Section 2 of this Amendment allows states to remove voting privileges from anyone who has participated in \"rebellion or other crime.\" A 1972 Supreme Court ruling found that this article applied to disenfranchisement of ex-felons. The Civic Participation and Rehabilitation Act, allowing for ex-felons to vote, has been introduced at the beginning of every legislative session since 1994, but has never made it to the floor of Congress.\n\nTwo states, Kentucky and Florida (Gov. Rick Scott reverted to the old policy in 2010 that had been changed by Gov. Charlie Crist), continue to impose a lifelong denial of the right to vote to all citizens with a felony record, in the absence of a restoration of civil rights by the Governor or, where allowed, state legislature. Florida law is somewhat unusual, in that the individual must be pardoned by the Governor and a majority of the publicly elected State Cabinet (with the Governor's vote being the tiebreaker, if necessary).\n\nThe lifetime exclusion of felons from jury service is the majority rule in the United States, used in 31 states and in federal courts. The result is that over 6% of the adult population is excluded, including about 30% of black men. Felon jury exclusion is less visible than felony disenfranchisement, and few socio-legal scholars have challenged the statutes that withhold a convicted felon's opportunity to sit on a jury. While constitutional challenges to felon jury exclusion almost always originate from interested litigants, some scholars contend that \"it is the interests of the excluded felons that are most directly implicated.\"\n\nYet attacks on these blanket prohibitions levied by excluded felon jurors have failed consistently. The United States Supreme Court does not recognize the right to sit on a jury as fundamental. It has been pointed out that, although lawmakers assert that felon jury exclusion measures protect the integrity of the adjudicative process, as felons \"lack the requisite probity\" to serve on a jury and are \"inherently biased,\" many of the states subscribing to this practice allow felons to practice law. But that is a double-standard only if it is presumed that those who judge the arguments of both sides in a case are allowed to be as biased as those arguing for each side.\n\nSince 1968, felons are regarded by the federal government, and most US states, as being \"prohibited persons\" under US law (). It is a class C felony punishable by up to 10 years in prison under this subsection \"to ship or transport in interstate or foreign commerce, or possess in or affecting commerce, any firearm or ammunition; or to receive any firearm or ammunition which has been shipped or transported in interstate or foreign commerce.\" This has been litigated before the Supreme Court. However, the Court upheld the regulation. \n\n"}
{"id": "19152829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19152829", "title": "Luminous mind", "text": "Luminous mind\n\nLuminous mind (Skt: \"prabhāsvara-citta\" or \"ābhāsvara-citta,\" Pali: \"pabhassara citta;\" T. \"’od gsal gyi sems;\" C. \"guangmingxin;\" J. \"kōmyōshin;\" K. \"kwangmyŏngsim\") is a Buddhist term which appears in a sutta of the Pali Anguttara Nikaya as well as numerous Mahayana texts and Buddhist tantras. It is variously translated as \"brightly shining mind\", or \"mind of clear light\" while the related term luminosity (Skt. \"prabhāsvaratā;\" Tib.\"’od gsal ba;\" Ch. \"guāng míng;\" Jpn. \"kōmyō;\" Kor. \"kwangmyōng\") is also translated as \"clear light\" in Tibetan Buddhist contexts or, \"purity\" in East Asian contexts. The term is usually used to describe the mind or consciousness in different ways. \n\nThis term is given no direct doctrinal explanation in the Pali discourses, but later Buddhist schools explained it using various concepts developed by them. The Theravada school identifies the \"luminous mind\" with the \"bhavanga\", a concept first proposed in the Theravada Abhidhamma. The later schools of the Mahayana identify it with both the Mahayana concepts of \"bodhicitta\" and \"tathagatagarbha\". The notion is of central importance in the philosophy and practice of Dzogchen.\n\nIn the Early Buddhist Texts there are various mentions of luminosity or radiance which refer to the development of the mind in meditation. In the \"Saṅgīti-sutta\" for example, it relates to the attainment of samadhi, where the perception of light (\"āloka sañña\") leads to a mind endowed with luminescence (\"sappabhāsa\"). According to Analayo, the \"Upakkilesa-sutta\" and its parallels mention that the presence of defilements \"results in a loss of whatever inner light or luminescence (obhāsa) had been experienced during meditation\". The Pali \"Dhātuvibhaṅga-sutta\" uses the metaphor of refining gold to describe equanimity reached through meditation, which is said to be \"pure, bright, soft, workable, and luminous\". The Chinese parallel to this text however does not describe equanimity as luminous. Analayo sees this difference due to the propensity of the reciters of the Theravada canon to prefer fire and light imagery.    \n\nThe Pali Anguttara Nikaya (A.I.8-10) states: \"Luminous, monks, is the mind. And it is freed from incoming defilements. The well-instructed disciple of the noble ones discerns that as it actually is present, which is why I tell you that — for the well-instructed disciple of the noble ones — there is development of the mind.\" A parallel passage can be found in the \"Śāriputrābhidharma\", an Abhidharma treatise possibly of the Dharmaguptaka tradition. \n\nAnother mention of a similar term in the Pali discourses occurs in the \"Brahmanimantaṇika-sutta\" of the Majjhima-nikāya and in the \"Kevaḍḍha-sutta\" of the \"Dīgha-nikāya,\" the latter has a parallel in a Dharmaguptaka collection surviving in Chinese translation. The \"Brahmanimantaṇika-sutta\" describes an “invisible consciousness” (viññāṇaṃ anidassanaṃ) that is \"infinite” (anantaṃ), and “luminous in every way” (sabbato pabhaṃ). However, there is disagreement among the various Pali Canon editions as to whom the statement is spoken by, and in some editions it seems as if it is spoken not by the Buddha but by the deva Baka Brahma in a debate with the Buddha. The Chinese parallel to the \"Brahmanimantaṇika-sutta\" has the term used by Baka Brahma.  \n\nThe \"Kevaḍḍha-sutta\"  and its parallel in the Dharmaguptaka Dīrgha-āgama meanwhile, does have a statement spoken by the Buddha which mentions luminous consciousness. The Dīrgha-āgama sutra states:Consciousness that is invisible, Infinite, and luminous of its own: This ceasing, the four elements cease, Coarse and subtle, pretty and ugly cease. Herein name-and-form cease. Consciousness ceasing, the remainder [i.e. name-and-form] also ceases. However, Analayo mentions that parallel recensions of this sutra in other languages like Sanskrit and Tibetan do not mention luminosity (\"pabhaṃ\") and even the various Pali editions do not agree that this verse mentions luminosity, sometimes using \"pahaṃ\" ( \"given up\") instead of \"pabhaṃ\". Whatever the case, according to Analayo, the passage refers to \"the cessation mode of dependent arising, according to which name-and-form cease with the cessation of consciousness\".\n\nAccording to Bhikkhu Brahmāli, the references to luminosity in the \"Brahmanimantaṇika-sutta\" refers to states of samadhi known only to ariyas (noble ones), while the \"pabhassaracitta\" of Anguttara Nikaya (A.I.8-10) is a reference to the mind in jhana. He cites a common passage which notes that the mind with the five hindrances is not considered radiant and thus it makes sense to say that a mind in jhana, which does not have the five hindrances, can be said to be radiant:\nSo too, bhikkhus, there are these five corruptions of the mind (\"cittassa\"), corrupted by which the mind is neither malleable nor wieldy nor radiant (\"pabhassaraṃ\") but brittle and not rightly concentrated for the destruction of the taints. What five? Sensual desire ... ill will ... sloth and torpor ... restlessness and remorse ... doubt is a corruption of the mind, corrupted by which the mind is neither malleable nor wieldy nor radiant but brittle and not rightly concentrated for the destruction of the taints. (SN V 92 and A III 16, cf. AN I 257 and MN III 243). \n\nThe Theravadin Anguttara Nikaya Atthakatha commentary identifies the luminous mind as the \"bhavanga\", the \"ground of becoming\" or \"latent dynamic continuum\", which is the most fundamental level of mental functioning in the Theravada Abhidhammic scheme. This interpretation is also used by Buddhaghosa, in his commentary on the Dhammasangani. Buddhaghosa also mentions that the mind is made luminous by the fourth jhana in his Visuddhimagga.\n\nThanissaro Bhikkhu holds that the commentaries' identification of the luminous mind with the \"bhavanga\" is problematic, but Peter Harvey finds it to be a plausible interpretation.\n\nAjahn Mun, the leading figure behind the modern Thai Forest Tradition, comments on this verse:\n\nThanissaro Bhikkhu sees the luminous mind as \"the mind that the meditator is trying to develop. To perceive its luminosity means understanding that defilements such as greed, aversion, or delusion are not intrinsic to its nature, are not a necessary part of awareness.\" He associates the term with the simile used to describe the fourth jhana which states:\"Just as if a man were sitting covered from head to foot with a white cloth so that there would be no part of his body to which the white cloth did not extend; even so, the monk sits, permeating the body with a pure, bright awareness. There is nothing of his entire body unpervaded by pure, bright awareness.\" \n\nAccording to Tadeusz Skorupski, the Mahasamghika school held that the mind’s nature (\"cittasvabhva\") is fundamentally pure (\"mulavisuddha\"), but it can be contaminated by adventitious defilements.\n\nIn contrast, the Sarvastivada Vaibhasikas held that the mind was not naturally luminous. According to Skorupski for the Vaibhasikas, the mind:is initially or originally contaminated by defilements, and must be purified by abandoning defilements. For them a primordially luminous mind cannot be contaminated by adventitious defilements. If such a mind were contaminated by adventitious defilements, then these naturally impure defilements would become pure once they become associated with the naturally luminous mind. On the other hand, if adventitious defilements remained to be impure, then a naturally luminous mind would not become defiled by their presence. For them the constantly evolving mind is in possession of defilements.\n\nIn Sanskrit Mahayana texts and their translations, the term is a compound of the intensifying prefix \"pra-\", the verbal root \"bhāsa\" (Tibetan: \"'od\") which means light, radiance or luminosity and the modifier \"vara\" (Tibetan: \"gsal ba\") which means 'clear,' and also 'the best of, the highest type.' Jeffrey Hopkins' Tibetan-Sanskrit dictionary glosses the term compound as:clear light; clearly luminous; transparently luminous; translucent; brightly shining; transparent lucidity; splendor; radiance; illumination; spread the light; lustre; come to hear; effulgence; brilliance.\n\nMahayana sutras generally affirm the pure and luminous nature of the mind, adding that this is its natural condition (\"prakrti-prabhsvara-citta\"). In the \"Pañcavimsati Prajñaparamita sutra\", the \"prabhsvara-citta\" is interpreted thus\":\"This mind (citta) is no-mind (acitta), because its natural character is luminous. What is this state of the mind’s luminosity (prabhsvarat)? When the mind is neither associated with nor dissociated from greed, hatred, delusion, proclivities (anusaya), fetters (samyojana), or false views (drsti), then this constitutes its luminosity. Does the mind exist as no-mind? In the state of no-mind (acittat), the states of existence (astit) or non-existence (nstit) can be neither found nor established... What is this state of no-mind? The state of no-mind, which is immutable (avikra) and undifferentiated (avikalpa), constitutes the ultimate reality (dharmat) of all dharmas. Such is the state of no-mind.A similar teaching appears in some recensions of the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā\" (8000 lines) \"Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra.\" Edward Conze considered the teaching on the \"essential purity of the nature of mind\" (\"prakrti cittasya prabhasvara\"; \"xinxiang benjing\", 心相本淨) to be a central teaching of the Mahayana. However according to Shi Huifeng, this term is not present in the earliest textual witness of the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā\", the \"Daoxing Banruo Jing\", attributed to Lokaksema (c. 179 CE).\n\nMahayana texts like the Ratnagotravibhanga, also associate \"prabhsvara\" with awakening (\"bodhi\") and also another term, natural or original purity of mind (\"cittaprakrtivisuddhi\"). In some Mahayana shastras, natural purity is another term for Emptiness, Suchness and Dharmadhatu. Asanga's Mahayanasamgraha for example, states:The essential purity (\"prakṛtivyavadāna\"), i.e., the true nature (\"tathatā\"), emptiness (\"śūnyatā\"), the utmost point of reality (\"bhūtakoti\"), the signless (\"animitta\"), the absolute (\"paramārtha\"), the fundamental element (\"dharmadhātu\").The \"Bhadrapala-sutra\" states that the element of consciousness (\"vijñanadhatu\") is pure and penetrates all things while not being affected by them, like the rays of the sun, even though it may appear defiled.\n\nAccording to Walpola Rahula, all the elements of the Yogacara store-consciousness (\"alaya-vijnana\") are already found in the Pali Canon. He writes that the three layers of the mind (\"citta\", called \"luminous\" in the passage discussed above, \"manas\", and \"vijnana\") as presented by Asanga are also used in the Pali Canon. \n\nAccording to Yogacara teachings, as in early Buddhist teachings regarding the \"citta\", the store-consciousness is \"not\" pure, and with the attainment of nirvana comes a level of mental purity that is hitherto unattained.\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism, the luminous mind (Tibetan: \"gsal ba\") is often equated with the Yogacara concept of svasaṃvedana (\"reflexive awareness\"). It is often compared to a lamp in a dark room, which in the act of illuminating objects in the room also illuminates itself.\n\nIn the canonical discourses, when the brightly shining \"citta\" is \"unstained,\" it is supremely poised for \"arahantship\", and so could be conceived as the \"womb\" of the \"arahant\", for which a synonym is \"tathagata\". The discourses do not support seeing the \"luminous mind\" as \"nirvana within\" which exists prior to liberation. While the Canon does not support the identification of the \"luminous mind\" in its raw state with nirvanic consciousness, passages could be taken to imply that it can be transformed into the latter. Upon the destruction of the fetters, according to one scholar, \"the shining nibbanic consciousness flashes out of the womb of arahantship, being without object or support, so transcending all limitations.\"\n\nBoth the Shurangama Sutra and the Lankavatara Sutra describe the \"tathagatagarbha\" (\"arahant womb\")  as \"by nature brightly shining and pure,\" and \"originally pure,\" though \"enveloped in the garments of the skandhas, dhatus and ayatanas and soiled with the dirt of attachment, hatred, delusion and false imagining.\" It is said to be \"naturally pure,\" but it appears impure as it is stained by adventitious defilements. Thus the Lankavatara Sutra identifies the luminous mind of the Canon with the tathagatagarbha. Some Gelug philosophers, in contrast to teachings in the Lankavatara Sutra, maintain that the \"purity\" of the \"tathagatagarbha\" is not because it is originally or fundamentally pure, but because mental flaws can be removed — that is, like anything else, they are not part of an individual's fundamental essence. These thinkers thus refuse to turn epistemological insight about emptiness and Buddha-nature into an essentialist metaphysics.\n\nThe Shurangama Sutra and the Lankavatara Sutra also equate the \"tathagatagarbha\" (and \"alaya-vijnana\") with nirvana, though this is concerned with the actual attainment of nirvana as opposed to nirvana as a timeless phenomenon.\n\nThe Mahayana interprets the brightly shining \"citta\" as \"bodhicitta\", the altruistic \"spirit of awakening.\" The Astasahasrika Perfection of Wisdom Sutra describes \"bodhicitta\" thus: \"That citta is no citta since it is by nature brightly shining.\" This is in accord with Anguttara Nikaya I,10 which goes from a reference to brightly shining \"citta\" to saying that even the slightest development of loving-kindness is of great benefit. This implies that loving-kindness - and the related state of compassion - is inherent within the luminous mind as a basis for its further development. The observation that the ground state of consciousness is of the nature of loving-kindness implies that empathy is innate to consciousness and exists prior to the emergence of all active mental processes.\n\n\"Luminosity\" or \"clear light\" (Tibetan \"'od gsal\", Sanskrit \"prabhāsvara\"), is central concept in Esoteric Buddhism, Tibetan Buddhism and Bon. It is the innate condition of the mind, associated with buddha-nature, the realisation of which is the goal of meditative practice. It is said to be experienced when the coarse and subtle minds dissolve during deep sleep, during orgasm, and during the death process. All systems of Tibetan Buddhism agree that the clear light nature of mind is non-conceptual and free from all mental afflictions, and that tantra is the superior method of working with this nature of the mind.\n\nThe Indian tantric commentator Indrabhuti, in his \"Jñanasiddhi,\" states that Being luminous by nature, this mind is similar to the moon’s disc. The lunar disc epitomises the knowledge (\"jñāna\") that is luminous by nature. Just as the waxing moon gradually emerges in its fullness, in the same way the mind-jewel (\"cittaratna\"), being naturally luminous, also fully emerges in its perfected state. Just as the moon becomes fully visible, once it is freed from the accidental obscurities, in the same way the mind-jewel, being pure by nature (\"prakṛti-pariśuddha\"), once separated from the stains of defilements (\"kleśa\"), appears as the perfected buddha-qualities (\"guṇa\").Luminosity is also a specific term for one of the Six Yogas of Naropa . In his commentary, Pema Karpo says that the clear light is experienced briefly by all human beings at the very first moment of death, by advanced yogic practitioners in the highest states of meditation, and unceasingly by all Buddhas.\n\nVarious Vajrayana practices involve the recognition of this aspect of mind in different situations, such as dream yoga. In this case, the practitioner trains to lucidly enter the deep sleep state. If one has the ability to remain lucid during deep sleep, one will be able to recognize the luminosity of death and gain Buddhahood. This is called the meeting of mother and child luminosities, resulting in the state of \"thukdam\" at death.\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhist Dzogchen literature, luminosity (\"'od gsal\") is associated with an aspect of the Ground termed \"spontaneous presence\" (\"Lhun grub\"), meaning a presence that is uncreated and not based on anything causally extraneous to itself. This term is often paired with 'original-purity' (\"ka dag\"), which is associated with emptiness (shunyata), and are both seen as inseparable aspects of the Ground. Other terms used to describe this aspect are dynamism or creative power (\"rtsal\") and radiance (\"dwangs\").\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20875", "title": "Melancholia", "text": "Melancholia\n\nMelancholia, from ' \"gall bladders\" also Latin \"lugere\" lugubriousness to mourn, Latin \"morosus\" moroseness of self-will or fastidious habit, and old English \"wist wistfulness\" of intent or saturnine, is a concept from ancient or pre-modern medicine. Melancholy was one of the four temperaments matching the four humours. In the 19th century, \"melancholia\" could be physical as well as mental, and melancholic conditions were classified as such by their common cause rather than by their properties.\n\nThe name \"melancholia\" comes from the old medical belief of the four humours: disease or ailment being caused by an imbalance in one or more of the four basic bodily liquids, or humours. Personality types were similarly determined by the dominant humor in a particular person. According to Hippocrates and subsequent tradition, melancholia was caused by an excess of black bile, hence the name, which means \"black bile\", from Ancient Greek μέλας (\"melas\"), \"dark, black\", and χολή (\"kholé\"), \"bile\"; a person whose constitution tended to have a preponderance of black bile had a \"melancholic\" disposition. In the complex elaboration of humorist theory, it was associated with the earth from the Four Elements, the season of autumn, the spleen as the originating organ and cold and dry as related qualities. In astrology it showed the influence of Saturn, hence the related adjective \"saturnine\".\n\nMelancholia was described as a distinct disease with particular mental and physical symptoms in the 5th and 4th centuries BC. Hippocrates, in his \"Aphorisms\", characterized all \"fears and despondencies, if they last a long time\" as being symptomatic of melancholia. When a patient could not be cured of the disease it was thought that the melancholia was a result of demonic possession.\n\nIn his study of French and Burgundian courtly culture, Johan Huizinga noted that \"at the close of the Middle Ages, a sombre melancholy weighs on people's souls.\" In chronicles, poems, sermons, even in legal documents, an immense sadness, a note of despair and a fashionable sense of suffering and deliquescence at the approaching end of times, suffuses court poets and chroniclers alike: Huizinga quotes instances in the ballads of Eustache Deschamps, \"monotonous and gloomy variations of the same dismal theme\", and in Georges Chastellain's prologue to his Burgundian chronicle, and in the late fifteenth-century poetry of Jean Meschinot. Ideas of reflection and the workings of imagination are blended in the term \"merencolie\", embodying for contemporaries \"a tendency\", observes Huizinga, \"to identify all serious occupation of the mind with sadness\".\n\nPainters were considered by Vasari and other writers to be especially prone to melancholy by the nature of their work, sometimes with good effects for their art in increased sensitivity and use of fantasy. Among those of his contemporaries so characterised by Vasari were Pontormo and Parmigianino, but he does not use the term of Michelangelo, who used it, perhaps not very seriously, of himself. A famous allegorical engraving by Albrecht Dürer is entitled \"Melencolia I\". This engraving has been interpreted as portraying melancholia as the state of waiting for inspiration to strike, and not necessarily as a depressive affliction. Amongst other allegorical symbols, the picture includes a magic square and a truncated rhombohedron. The image in turn inspired a passage in \"The City of Dreadful Night\" by James Thomson (B.V.), and, a few years later, a sonnet by Edward Dowden.\n\nThe most extended treatment of melancholia comes from Robert Burton, whose \"The Anatomy of Melancholy\" (1621) treats the subject from both a literary and a medical perspective. Burton wrote in the 17th century that music and dance were critical in treating mental illness, especially melancholia.\nin 10th century Persian physician Al-Akhawayni describes Melancholia as a chronic illness and relates it to brain, which is one of the main aspects of his view on Melancholia. He describes Melancholia’s initial clinical manifestations as \"suffering from an unexplained fear, inability to answer questions or providing false answers, self-laughing and self-crying and speaking meaninglessly, yet with no fever\"\n\nIn the Encyclopédie of Diderot and d'Alembert, the causes of melancholia are stated to be similar to those that cause Mania: \"grief, pains of the spirit, passions, as well as all the love and sexual appetites that go unsatisfied.\"\n\nDuring the later 16th and early 17th centuries, a curious cultural and literary cult of melancholia arose in England. In an influential 1964 essay in Apollo, art historian Roy Strong traced the origins of this fashionable melancholy to the thought of the popular Neoplatonist and humanist Marsilio Ficino (1433–1499), who replaced the medieval notion of melancholia with something new: \n\n\"The Anatomy of Melancholy\" (\"The Anatomy of Melancholy, What it is: With all the Kinds, Causes, Symptomes, Prognostickes, and Several Cures of it... Philosophically, Medicinally, Historically, Opened and Cut Up\") by Burton, was first published in 1621 and remains a defining literary monument to the fashion. Another major English author who made extensive expression upon being of an melancholic disposition is Sir Thomas Browne in his Religio Medici (1643).\n\n\"Night-Thoughts\" (\"The Complaint: or, Night-Thoughts on Life, Death, & Immortality\"), a long poem in blank verse by Edward Young was published in nine parts (or \"nights\") between 1742 and 1745, and hugely popular in several languages. It had a considerable influence on early Romantics in England, France and Germany. William Blake was commissioned to illustrate a later edition.\n\nIn the visual arts, this fashionable intellectual melancholy occurs frequently in portraiture of the era, with sitters posed in the form of \"the lover, with his crossed arms and floppy hat over his eyes, and the scholar, sitting with his head resting on his hand\"—descriptions drawn from the frontispiece to the 1638 edition of Burton's \"Anatomy\", which shows just such by-then stock characters. These portraits were often set out of doors where Nature provides \"the most suitable background for spiritual contemplation\" or in a gloomy interior.\n\nIn music, the post-Elizabethan cult of melancholia is associated with John Dowland, whose motto was \"Semper Dowland, semper dolens\" (\"Always Dowland, always mourning\"). The melancholy man, known to contemporaries as a \"malcontent\", is epitomized by Shakespeare's Prince Hamlet, the \"Melancholy Dane\".\n\nA similar phenomenon, though not under the same name, occurred during the German Sturm und Drang movement, with such works as \"The Sorrows of Young Werther\" by Goethe or in Romanticism with works such as \"Ode on Melancholy\" by John Keats or in Symbolism with works such as \"Isle of the Dead\" by Arnold Böcklin. In the 20th century, much of the counterculture of modernism was fueled by comparable alienation and a sense of purposelessness called \"anomie\"; earlier artistic preoccupation with death has gone under the rubric of memento mori. The medieval condition of acedia (\"acedie\" in English) and the Romantic Weltschmerz were similar concepts, most likely to affect the intellectual.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42876931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42876931", "title": "Monitoring and evaluation", "text": "Monitoring and evaluation\n\nMonitoring and Evaluation (M&E) is a process that helps improve performance and achieve results. Its goal is to improve current and future management of outputs, outcomes and impact. It is mainly used to assess the performance of projects, institutions and programs set up by governments, international organisations and NGOs. It establishes links between the past, present and future actions.\n\nMonitoring and evaluation processes can be managed by the donors financing the assessed activities, by an independent branch of the implementing organization, by the project managers or implementing team themselves and/or by a private company. The credibility and objectivity of monitoring and evaluation reports depend very much on the independence of the evaluators. Their expertise and independence is of major importance for the process to be successful.\n\nMany international organizations such as the United Nations, USAID, the World Bank group and the Organization of American States have been utilizing this process for many years. The process is also growing in popularity in the developing countries where the governments have created their own national M&E systems to assess the development projects, the resource management and the government activities or administration. The developed countries are using this process to assess their own development and cooperation agencies.\n\nThe M&E is separated into two distinguished categories: evaluation and monitoring. An evaluation is a systematic and objective examination concerning the relevance, effectiveness, efficiency and impact of activities in the light of specified objectives. The idea in evaluating projects is to isolate errors not to repeat them and to underline and promote the successful mechanisms for current and future projects.\n\nAn important goal of evaluation is to provide recommendations and lessons to the project managers and implementation teams that have worked on the projects and for the ones that will implement and work on similar projects.\n\nEvaluations are also indirectly a means to report to the donor about the activities implemented. It is a means to verify that the donated funds are being well managed and transparently spent. The evaluators are supposed to check and analyse the budget lines and to report the findings in their work.\n\nMonitoring is a continuous assessment that aims at providing all stakeholders with early detailed information on the progress or delay of the ongoing assessed activities. It is an oversight of the activity's implementation stage. Its purpose is to determine if the outputs, deliveries and schedules planned have been reached so that action can be taken to correct the deficiencies as quickly as possible.\n\nGood planning, combined with effective monitoring and evaluation, can play a major role in enhancing the effectiveness of development programs and projects. Good planning helps focus on the results that matter, while monitoring and evaluation help us learn from past successes and challenges and inform decision making so that current and future initiatives are better able to improve people’s lives and expand their choices. \n\nThe common ground for monitoring and evaluation is that they are both management tools. For monitoring, data and information collection for tracking progress according to the terms of reference is gathered periodically which is not the case in evaluations for which the data and information collection is happening during or in view of the evaluation. The monitoring is a short term assessment and does not take into consideration the outcomes and impact unlike the evaluation process which also assesses the outcomes and sometime longer term impact. This impact assessment occurs sometimes after the end of a project, even though it is rare because of its cost and of the difficulty to determine whether the project is responsible of the observed results.\n\nAlthough evaluations are often a retrospective, their purpose is essentially forward looking. Evaluation applies the lessons and recommendations to decisions about current and future programmes. Evaluations can also be used to promote new projects, get support from governments, raise funds from public or private institutions and inform the general public on the different activities.\n\nIt is also very important as monitoring team give the recommendation to the school visited (e.g K.H.S and G.S.G).\n\nThe Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness in February 2005 and the follow-up meeting in Accra underlined the importance of the evaluation process and of the ownership of its conduct by the projects' hosting countries. Many developing countries now have M&E systems and the tendency is growing.\n\nThe credibility of findings and assessments depends to a large extent on the manner in which monitoring and evaluation is conducted. To assess performance, it is necessary to select, before the implementation of the project, indicators which will permit to rate the targeted outputs and outcomes. According to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), an outcome indicator has two components: the baseline which is the situation before the programme or project begins, and the target which is the expected situation at the end of the project. An output indicator that does not have any baseline as the purpose of the output is to introduce something that does not exist yet.\n\nThe most important agencies of the United Nations have a monitoring and evaluation unit. All these agencies are supposed to follow the common standards of the United Nations Evaluation Group (UNEG). These norms concern the Institutional framework and management of the evaluation function, the competencies and ethics, and the way to conduct evaluations and present reports (design, process, team selection, implementation, reporting and follow up). This group also provides guidelines and relevant documentation to all evaluation organs being part of the United Nations or not.\n\nMost agencies implementing projects and programmes, even if following the common UNEG standards, have their own handbook and guidelines on how to conduct M&E. Indeed, the UN agencies have different specialisations and have different needs and ways of approaching M&E. The M&E branches of every UN agency are monitored and rated by the Joint Inspection Unit of the United Nations.\n\n"}
{"id": "164226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=164226", "title": "Name", "text": "Name\n\nA name is a term used for identification. Names can identify a class or category of things, or a single thing, either uniquely, or within a given context. The entity identified by a name is called its referent. A personal name identifies, not necessarily uniquely, a \"specific\" individual human. The name of a specific entity is sometimes called a proper name (although that term has a philosophical meaning also) and is, when consisting of only one word, a proper noun. Other nouns are sometimes called \"common names\" or (obsolete) \"general names\". A name can be given to a person, place, or thing; for example, parents can give their child a name or a scientist can give an element a name.\n\nCaution must be exercised when translating, for there are ways that one language may prefer one type of name over another. For example, the French sometimes refer to Aristotle as \"le Stagirite\" from one spelling of his place of birth, and English speakers often refer to Shakespeare as \"The Bard\", recognizing him as a paragon writer of the language.\n\nThe word \"name\" comes from Old English \"nama\"; cognate with Old High German (OHG) \"namo\", Sanskrit (\"nāman\"), Latin \"nomen\", Greek (\"onoma\"), and Persian (\"nâm\"), from the Proto-Indo-European (PIE) \"*h₁nómn̥\". Perhaps connected to non-Indo-European terms such as Tamil (\"namam\") and Proto-Uralic \"*nime\".\n\nA personal name is an identifying word or words by which an individual is intimately known or designated such as \"Andre,\" \"Sophia-Grace,\" or \"Mohammed.\" It is traditional for individuals to have a personal name (also called a \"first name\") and a last name (also called a \"family name\" or \"surname\" because it is shared by members of the same family). Middle names are also used by many people as a third identifier, and can be chosen for personal reasons including signifying relationships, preserving pre-marital/maiden names (a popular practice in the United States), and to perpetuate family names.\n\nThe practice of using middle names dates back to ancient Rome, where it was common for members of the elite to have a \"praenomen\" (a personal name), a \"nomen\" (a family name, not exactly used the way middle names are used today), and a \"cognomen\" (a name representing an individual attribute or the specific branch of a person's family). Middle names eventually fell out of use, but regained popularity in Europe during the nineteenth century.\n\nBesides first, middle, and last names, individuals may also have nicknames, aliases, or titles. Nicknames are informal names used by friends or family to refer to a person (\"Chris\" may be used as a short form of the personal name \"Christopher\"). A person may choose to use an alias, or a fake name, instead of their real name, possibly to protect or obscure their identity. People may also have titles designating their role in an institution or profession (members of royal families may use various terms such as King, Queen, Duke, or Duchess to signify their positions of authority or their relation to the throne).\n\nIn the ancient world, particularly in the ancient near-east (Israel, Mesopotamia, Egypt, Persia) names were thought to be extremely powerful and act, in some ways, as a separate manifestation of a person or deity. This viewpoint is responsible both for the reluctance to use the proper name of God in Hebrew writing or speech, as well as the common understanding in ancient magic that magical rituals had to be carried out \"in [someone's] name\". By invoking a god or spirit by name, one was thought to be able to summon that spirit's power for some kind of miracle or magic (see Luke 9:49, in which the disciples claim to have seen a man driving out demons using the name of Jesus). This understanding passed into later religious tradition, for example the stipulation in Catholic exorcism that the demon cannot be expelled until the exorcist has forced it to give up its name, at which point the name may be used in a stern command which will drive the demon away.\n\nQuranic names (Arabic names)\n\nWe can see many Arabic names in the Quran and in Muslim people. Like the names Allah, Muhammad, Khwaja, Ismail, Mehboob, Suhelahmed, Shoheb Ameena, Aaisha, Sameena, Rumana, Swaleha, etc. The name Mohammed and Ahmed are same, for example Suhel Ahmad or Mohammad Suhel are same. In Islam and in Christianity we can see many similar names like (the first name is Islamic name and the second name is Christian name Islamic/Christian) Adam/Adam, Yusuf/Joseph, Dawood/David, Rumana/Romana, Maryam/Mary, Noah/Nuh and etc.\n\nIn the Old Testament, the names of individuals are meaningful, and a change of name indicates a change of status. For example, the patriarch Abram and his wife Sarai were renamed \"Abraham\" and \"Sarah\" at the institution of the Abrahamic covenant (Genesis 17:4, 17:15). Simon was renamed Peter when he was given the Keys to Heaven. This is recounted in the Gospel of Matthew chapter 16, which according to Roman Catholic teaching was when Jesus promised to Saint Peter the power to take binding actions.\n\nThroughout the Bible, characters are given names at birth that reflect something of significance or describe the course of their lives. For example: \"Solomon\" meant peace, and the king with that name was the first whose reign was without war. Likewise, Joseph named his firstborn son Manasseh (Hebrew: \"causing to forget\")(Genesis 41:51); when Joseph also said, \"“God has made me forget all my troubles and everyone in my father's family.”\n\nBiblical Jewish people did not have surnames which were passed from generation to generation. However, they were typically known as the child of their father. For example: דוד בן ישי (David ben Yishay) meaning, David, son of Jesse (1 Samuel 17:12,58).\n\nThe Babylonian Talmud maintains that names exert a mystical influence over their bearers, and a change of name is one of four actions that can avert an evil heavenly decree, that would lead to punishment after one's death. Rabbinical commentators differ as to whether the name's influence is metaphysical, connecting a person to their soul, or bio-socio-psychological, where the connection affects his personality, appearance and social capacities. The Talmud also states that all those who descend to Gehenna will rise in the time of Messiah. However, there are three exceptions, one of which is he who calls another by a derisive nickname.\n\nA naming convention is an attempt to systematize names in a field so they unambiguously convey similar information in a similar manner.\n\nSeveral major naming conventions include:\n\nNaming conventions are useful in many aspects of everyday life, enabling the casual user to understand larger structures.\n\nStreet names within a city may follow a naming convention; some examples include:\n\nLarge corporate, university, or government campuses may follow a naming convention for rooms within the buildings to help orient tenants and visitors. Otherwise, rooms may be numbered in some kind of a rational scheme.\n\nParents may follow a naming convention when selecting names for their children. Some have chosen alphabetical names by birth order. In some East Asian cultures, it is common for one syllable in a two-syllable given name to be a generation name which is the same for immediate siblings. In many cultures it is common for the son to be named after the father or a grandfather. In certain African cultures, such as in Cameroon, the eldest son gets the family name for his given name.\n\nIn other cultures, the name may include the place of residence, or the place of birth. The Roman naming convention denotes social rank.\n\nProducts may follow a naming convention. Automobiles typically have a binomial name, a \"make\" (manufacturer) and a \"model\", in addition to a model year, such as a 2007 Chevrolet Corvette. Sometimes there is a name for the car's \"decoration level\" or \"trim line\" as well: e.g., Cadillac Escalade EXT \"Platinum\", after the precious metal. Computers often have increasing numbers in their names to signify the next generation.\n\nCourses at schools typically follow a naming convention: an abbreviation for the subject area and then a number ordered by increasing level of difficulty.\n\nMany numbers (e.g. bank accounts, government IDs, credit cards, etc.) are not random but have an internal structure and convention. Virtually all organizations that assign names or numbers will follow some convention in generating these identifiers. Airline flight numbers, space shuttle flight numbers, even phone numbers all have an internal convention.\n\nDeveloping a name for a brand or product is heavily influenced by marketing research and strategy to be appealing and marketable. The brand name is often a neologism or pseudoword, such as Kodak or Sony.\n\nThe use of personal names is not unique to humans. Dolphins and green-rumped parrotlets also use symbolic names, as has been shown by recent research. Individual dolphins have distinctive whistles, to which they will respond even when there is no other information to clarify which dolphin is being referred to.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1092282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1092282", "title": "Negative frequency", "text": "Negative frequency\n\nThe concept of negative and positive frequency can be as simple as a wheel rotating one way or the other way: a \"signed value\" of frequency can indicate both the rate and direction of rotation. The rate is expressed in units such as revolutions (a.k.a. \"cycles\") per second (hertz) or radian/second (where 1 cycle corresponds to 2\"π\" radians).\n\nLet \"ω\" be a nonnegative parameter with units of radians/sec. Then the angular function (angle vs. time) , has slope −\"ω\", which is called a negative frequency. But when the function is used as the argument of a cosine operator, the result is indistinguishable from .  Similarly, is indistinguishable from . Thus any sinusoids can be represented in terms of positive frequencies. The sign of the underlying phase slope is ambiguous.\n\nThe ambiguity is resolved when the cosine and sine operators can be observed simultaneously, because leads by 1/4 cycle (= \"π\"/2 radians) when , and lags by 1/4 cycle when .  Similarly, a vector, , rotates counter-clockwise at 1 radian/sec, and completes a circle every 2π seconds, and the vector rotates in the other direction.\n\nThe sign of \"ω\" is also preserved in the complex-valued function:\n\nsince R(\"t\") and I(\"t\") can be separately extracted and compared. Although formula_1  clearly contains more information than either of its components, a common interpretation is that it is a simpler function, because:\nwhich gives rise to the interpretation that cos(\"ωt\") comprises \"both\" positive and negative frequencies.  But the sum is actually a cancellation that contains less, not more, information. Any measure that indicates both frequencies includes a false positive, because \"ω\" can have only one sign.  The Fourier transform, for instance, merely tells us that cos(\"ωt\") correlates equally well with both and with .\n\nPerhaps the most well-known application of negative frequency is the calculation:\n\nwhich is a measure of the amount of frequency ω in the function \"x\"(\"t\") over the interval . When evaluated as a continuous function of \"ω\" for the theoretical interval , it is known as the Fourier transform of \"x\"(\"t\"). A brief explanation is that the product of two complex sinusoids is also a complex sinusoid whose frequency is the sum of the original frequencies. So when \"ω\" is positive, formula_4 causes all the frequencies of \"x\"(\"t\") to be reduced by amount \"ω\". Whatever part of \"x\"(\"t\") that was at frequency \"ω\" is changed to frequency zero, which is just a constant whose amplitude level is a measure of the strength of the original \"ω\" content. And whatever part of \"x\"(\"t\") that was at frequency zero is changed to a sinusoid at frequency −\"ω\". Similarly, all other frequencies are changed to non-zero values. As the interval increases, the contribution of the constant term grows in proportion. But the contributions of the sinusoidal terms only oscillate around zero. So \"X\"(\"ω\") improves as a relative measure of the amount of frequency \"ω\" in the function \"x\"(\"t\").\n\nThe Fourier transform of  formula_1  produces a non-zero response only at frequency \"ω\". The transform of formula_2 has responses at both \"ω\" and −\"ω\", as anticipated by .\n\n"}
{"id": "5646759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5646759", "title": "Non-physical entity", "text": "Non-physical entity\n\nIn ontology and the philosophy of mind, a non-physical entity is a spirit or being that exists outside physical reality. Their existence divides the philosophical school of physicalism from the schools of idealism and dualism; with the latter schools holding that they can exist and the former holding that they cannot. If one posits that non-physical entities can exist, there exist further debates as to their inherent natures and their position relative to physical entities.\n\nPhilosophers generally do agree on the existence of abstract objects. These include concepts such as numbers, mathematical sets and functions, and philosophical relations and properties. Such entities are not physical inasmuch as they exist outside space and time. An abstract property such as redness also has no location in space-time. There are two concepts one being abstract and the other being concrete. The reason why these concepts are put into two separate categories is to make a distinction between metaphysics and epistemology. While older Cartesian dualists held the existence of non-physical minds, more limited forms of dualism propounded by 20th and 21st century philosophers (such as property dualism) hold merely the existence of non-physical properties.\n\nDualism is the division of two contrasted or opposed aspects.The dualist school supposes the existence of non-physical entities, the most widely discussed one being the mind. But beyond that it runs into stumbling blocks. Pierre Gassendi put one such problem directly to René Descartes in 1641, in response to Descartes's \"Meditations\":\nDescartes' response to Gassendi, and to Princess Elizabeth who asked him similar questions in 1643, is generally considered nowadays to be lacking, because it did not address what is known in the philosophy of mind as the interaction problem. This is a problem for non-physical entities as posited by dualism: by what mechanism, exactly, do they interact with physical entities, and how can they do so? Interaction with physical systems requires physical properties which a non-physical entity does not possess.\n\nDualists either, like Descartes, avoid the problem by considering it impossible for a non-physical mind to conceive the relationship that it has with the physical, and so impossible to explain philosophically, or assert that the questioner has made the fundamental mistake of thinking that the distinction between the physical and the non-physical is such that it prevents each from affecting the other.\n\nOther questions about the non-physical which dualism has not answered include such questions as how many minds each person can have, which is not an issue for physicalism which can simply declare one-mind-per-person almost by definition; and whether non-physical entities such as minds and souls are simple or compound, and if the latter, what \"stuff\" the compounds are made from.\n\nDescribing in philosophical terms what a non-physical entity actually is (or would be) can prove problematic. A convenient example of what constitutes a non-physical entity is a ghost. Gilbert Ryle once labelled Cartesian Dualism as positing the \"ghost in the machine\". However, it is hard to define in philosophical terms what it is, precisely, about a ghost that makes it a specifically non-physical, rather than a physical entity. Were the existence of ghosts ever demonstrated beyond doubt, it has been claimed that would actually place them in the category of \"physical\" entities.\n\nPurported non-mental non-physical entities include things such as gods, angels, demons, and ghosts. Lacking demonstrations of their existence, their existences and natures are widely debated, independently of the philosophy of mind.\n\n"}
{"id": "33819970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33819970", "title": "Othello error", "text": "Othello error\n\nOthello error occurs when a suspicious observer discounts cues of truthfulness. Essentially the Othello error occurs, Paul Ekman states, \"when the lie catcher fails to consider that a truthful person who is under stress may appear to be lying\" their non-verbal signals expressing their worry at the possibility of being disbelieved. A lie-detector or polygraph may be deceived in the same way, by misinterpreting nervous signals from a truthful person. The error is named after William Shakespeare's tragic play \"Othello\"; the dynamics between the two main characters, Othello and Desdemona, are a particularly well-known example of the error in practice.\n\nThe phrase Othello error was first used in the book \"Telling Lies\" by Paul Ekman in 1985. The name was coined from Shakespeare's play \"Othello\", which provides an \"excellent and famous example\" of what can happen when fear and distress upon confrontation do not signal deception. In Shakespeare's \"Othello\", Othello falsely believes that his wife, Desdemona, has been cheating on him with another man. There, upon confronting his wife, Desdemona, about her love for another, she cries and denies, all the while aware that her mien will be taken as evidence of guilt by her jealous husband. Seeing his wife's emotional distress, Othello ignores alternative, innocent explanations—like the possibility that she did not love another—and kills her, as his preconceptions biased his observation and, therefore, his judgments.\n\nOthello made the mistake of assuming that he understood the source of Desdemona's anguish. He assumed that his wife's sobs when confronted were a sign of her guilt; he didn't understand that her grief was rooted not in guilt, but in her knowledge that there was no way to convince her husband of her innocence.\n\nInterpersonal deception theory is the fundamental deception that can occur between two (or more) people face to face, and is what drives the Othello error. David Buller and Judee Burgoon coined this theory after 25 experiments in which they would ask one participant to attempt to deceive another. They concluded that people often say things that are not the truth \"To avoid hurting or offending another person, to emphasize their best qualities, to avoid getting into a conflict, or to speed up or slow down a relationship.\" Following the lead of others who study verbal deceit, Buller and Burgoon label these three strategies falsification, concealment, and equivocation. The three differ in that falsification creates a fiction, concealment hides a secret, and equivocation dodges the issue, yet all three are types of deception.\n\nBuller and Burgoon think that the Othello error is typical of most interactions where honesty is an issue. Their theory explains why detection of deception (and detection of truth telling) is a hit-and-miss business. One could believe someone was lying when they were not, or one could believe their lies when they were being deceitful.\n\nThe error was studied most extensively after 9/11 Many law enforcement officials were on high alert for future attacks and quick to point the finger at \"suspicious\" looking individuals. The process for determining who was a potential suspect was the \"Facial Action Coding System\" which is a system to taxonomize human facial movements by their appearance on the face, based on a system originally developed by a Swedish anatomist named Carl-Herman Hjortsjö. It was later adopted by Paul Ekman and Wallace V. Friesen, and published in 1978. However, in a situation in which not only law enforcement, but also the general public are anxious, and assiduous, the potential for Othello errors to creep into the real world is high. In a review of these practices by Lenese Herbert, it is stated that invasive visual examination of faces and facial expressions for law enforcement purposes under the guise of protective administrative searches ineffectively protects national and airport security and violates reasonable expectations of privacy. FACS improperly provides unreasonable governmental activity with a legitimizing scientific imprimatur that conceals governmental agents' race- and ethnicity-based prejudices, which leads to targeting minorities' faces as portents of danger.\"\n\nLie detectors use questioning techniques in conjunction with technology to measure human responses to these stimuli, to attempt to ascertain if that person is lying, or telling the truth. The most longstanding and still most frequently used measure is the polygraph test. A polygraph, popularly referred to as a lie detector, measures and records several physiological indices such as blood pressure, pulse, respiration, and skin conductivity while the subject is asked and answers a series of questions. The polygraph is currently being used in 19 states of the US. The use of polygraph in court testimony remains controversial, and no judge can force a witness to go through with the test although it is used extensively in post-conviction supervision, particularly of sex offenders. The reason that the test is controversial, and the reason that lie detector tests are fundamentally flawed, is the Othello error—an especially emotional, angry or distraught subject produces similar results to a supposed liar. Ekman's \"Telling lies\" has a chapter dedicated to the usage of the polygraph, in which he discusses the element of \"fear\" and states \"The severity of the punishment will influence the truthful person's fear of being misjudged just as much as the lying person's fear of being spotted—both suffer the same consequences.\"\n\nAttempts to overcome this, such as the Matte-Quadri comparison technique that factors into the system the innocent examinee's fear of terror and quantifies the results, hence addressing physiological responses produced by that emotion, have been met with scepticism.\n\nThe lie catcher must make an effort to consider the possibility that a sign of an emotion is not a clue to deceit but a clue\nto how a truthful person feels about being suspected of lying. When analyzing the body language of another, one must ascertain if the emotion sign of emotion is a fear of being caught lying or a fear of being falsely accused and negatively judged. The lie catcher must estimate both the emotions a suspect will be feeling if they are lying, but also, hand in hand, if they are being truthful. Just as not all liars will have every possible feeling about lying, not all truthful people will have every feeling about being under suspicion.\n\nThis is difficult and requires the lie catcher to have previous background knowledge of the suspect, and the emotions they convey under different types of duress. The lie catcher needs to know the emotional characteristics of the suspect so that they are aware of what emotions they convey when they are suspected of wrongdoing, versus when they actually have done wrong. Not everybody is likely to feel afraid, guilty, angry, and so on when they know they are suspected of wrongdoing or lying. It depends in part upon the personality of the suspect.\n\n"}
{"id": "24373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24373", "title": "Pain", "text": "Pain\n\nPain is a distressing feeling often caused by intense or damaging stimuli. The International Association for the Study of Pain's widely used definition defines pain as \"an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue damage, or described in terms of such damage\"; however, due to it being a complex, subjective phenomenon, defining pain has been a challenge. In medical diagnosis, pain is regarded as a symptom of an underlying condition.\n\nPain motivates the individual to withdraw from damaging situations, to protect a damaged body part while it heals, and to avoid similar experiences in the future. Most pain resolves once the noxious stimulus is removed and the body has healed, but it may persist despite removal of the stimulus and apparent healing of the body. Sometimes pain arises in the absence of any detectable stimulus, damage or disease.\n\nPain is the most common reason for physician consultation in most developed countries. It is a major symptom in many medical conditions, and can interfere with a person's quality of life and general functioning. Simple pain medications are useful in 20% to 70% of cases. Psychological factors such as social support, hypnotic suggestion, excitement, or distraction can significantly affect pain's intensity or unpleasantness. In some debates regarding physician-assisted suicide or euthanasia, pain has been used as an argument to permit people who are terminally ill to end their lives.\n\nPain is usually transitory, lasting only until the noxious stimulus is removed or the underlying damage or pathology has healed, but some painful conditions, such as rheumatoid arthritis, peripheral neuropathy, cancer and idiopathic pain, may persist for years. Pain that lasts a long time is called \"chronic\" or persistent, and pain that resolves quickly is called \"acute\". Traditionally, the distinction between \"acute\" and \"chronic\" pain has relied upon an arbitrary interval of time from onset; the two most commonly used markers being 3 months and 6 months since the onset of pain, though some theorists and researchers have placed the transition from acute to chronic pain at 12 months. Others apply \"acute\" to pain that lasts less than 30 days, \"chronic\" to pain of more than six months' duration, and \"subacute\" to pain that lasts from one to six months. A popular alternative definition of \"chronic pain\", involving no arbitrarily fixed durations, is \"pain that extends beyond the expected period of healing\". Chronic pain may be classified as cancer pain or else as benign.\n\nNociceptive pain is caused by stimulation of sensory nerve fibers that respond to stimuli approaching or exceeding harmful intensity (nociceptors), and may be classified according to the mode of noxious stimulation. The most common categories are \"thermal\" (e.g. heat or cold), \"mechanical\" (e.g. crushing, tearing, shearing, etc.) and \"chemical\" (e.g. iodine in a cut or chemicals released during inflammation). Some nociceptors respond to more than one of these modalities and are consequently designated polymodal.\n\nNociceptive pain may also be divided into \"visceral\", \"deep somatic\" and \"superficial somatic\" pain. Visceral structures are highly sensitive to stretch, ischemia and inflammation, but relatively insensitive to other stimuli that normally evoke pain in other structures, such as burning and cutting. \"Visceral pain\" is diffuse, difficult to locate and often referred to as distant, usually superficial, structure. It may be accompanied by nausea and vomiting and may be described as sickening, deep, squeezing, and dull. \"Deep somatic\" pain is initiated by stimulation of nociceptors in ligaments, tendons, bones, blood vessels, fasciae and muscles, and is dull, aching, poorly-localized pain. Examples include sprains and broken bones. \"Superficial\" pain is initiated by activation of nociceptors in the skin or other superficial tissue, and is sharp, well-defined and clearly located. Examples of injuries that produce superficial somatic pain include minor wounds and minor (first degree) burns.\n\nNeuropathic pain is caused by damage or disease affecting any part of the nervous system involved in bodily feelings (the somatosensory system). Peripheral neuropathic pain is often described as \"burning\", \"tingling\", \"electrical\", \"stabbing\", or \"pins and needles\". Bumping the \"funny bone\" elicits acute peripheral neuropathic pain.\n\nAllodynia is pain experienced in response to a normally painless stimulus. It has no biological function and is classified by stimuli into dynamic mechanical, punctate and static. In osteoarthritis, NGF has been identified as being involved in allodynia. The extent and intensity of sensation can be assessed through locating trigger points and the region of sensation, as well as utilising phantom maps.\n\nPhantom pain is pain felt in a part of the body that has been amputated, or from which the brain no longer receives signals. It is a type of neuropathic pain.\n\nThe prevalence of phantom pain in upper limb amputees is nearly 82%, and in lower limb amputees is 54%. One study found that eight days after amputation, 72% of patients had phantom limb pain, and six months later, 67% reported it. Some amputees experience continuous pain that varies in intensity or quality; others experience several bouts of pain per day, or it may reoccur less often. It is often described as shooting, crushing, burning or cramping. If the pain is continuous for a long period, parts of the intact body may become sensitized, so that touching them evokes pain in the phantom limb. Phantom limb pain may accompany urination or defecation.\n\nLocal anesthetic injections into the nerves or sensitive areas of the stump may relieve pain for days, weeks, or sometimes permanently, despite the drug wearing off in a matter of hours; and small injections of hypertonic saline into the soft tissue between vertebrae produces local pain that radiates into the phantom limb for ten minutes or so and may be followed by hours, weeks or even longer of partial or total relief from phantom pain. Vigorous vibration or electrical stimulation of the stump, or current from electrodes surgically implanted onto the spinal cord, all produce relief in some patients.\n\nMirror box therapy produces the illusion of movement and touch in a phantom limb which in turn may cause a reduction in pain.\n\nParaplegia, the loss of sensation and voluntary motor control after serious spinal cord damage, may be accompanied by girdle pain at the level of the spinal cord damage, visceral pain evoked by a filling bladder or bowel, or, in five to ten per cent of paraplegics, phantom body pain in areas of complete sensory loss. This phantom body pain is initially described as burning or tingling, but may evolve into severe crushing or pinching pain, or the sensation of fire running down the legs or of a knife twisting in the flesh. Onset may be immediate or may not occur until years after the disabling injury. Surgical treatment rarely provides lasting relief.\n\nPsychogenic pain, also called \"psychalgia\" or \"somatoform pain\", is pain caused, increased, or prolonged by mental, emotional, or behavioral factors. Headache, back pain, and stomach pain are sometimes diagnosed as psychogenic. Sufferers are often stigmatized, because both medical professionals and the general public tend to think that pain from a psychological source is not \"real\". However, specialists consider that it is no less actual or hurtful than pain from any other source.\n\nPeople with long-term pain frequently display psychological disturbance, with elevated scores on the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory scales of hysteria, depression and hypochondriasis (the \"neurotic triad\"). Some investigators have argued that it is this neuroticism that causes acute pain to turn chronic, but clinical evidence points the other direction, to chronic pain causing neuroticism. When long-term pain is relieved by therapeutic intervention, scores on the neurotic triad and anxiety fall, often to normal levels. Self-esteem, often low in chronic pain patients, also shows improvement once pain has resolved.\n\nBreakthrough pain is transitory pain that comes on suddenly and is not alleviated by the patient's regular pain management. It is common in cancer patients who often have background pain that is generally well-controlled by medications, but who also sometimes experience bouts of severe pain that from time to time \"breaks through\" the medication. The characteristics of breakthrough cancer pain vary from person to person and according to the cause. Management of breakthrough pain can entail intensive use of opioids, including fentanyl.\n\nThe ability to experience pain is essential for protection from injury, and recognition of the presence of injury. Episodic analgesia may occur under special circumstances, such as in the excitement of sport or war: a soldier on the battlefield may feel no pain for many hours from a traumatic amputation or other severe injury.\n\nAlthough unpleasantness is an essential part of the IASP definition of pain, it is possible to induce a state described as intense pain devoid of unpleasantness in some patients, with morphine injection or psychosurgery. Such patients report that they have pain but are not bothered by it; they recognize the sensation of pain but suffer little, or not at all. Indifference to pain can also rarely be present from birth; these people have normal nerves on medical investigations, and find pain unpleasant, but do not avoid repetition of the pain stimulus.\n\nInsensitivity to pain may also result from abnormalities in the nervous system. This is usually the result of acquired damage to the nerves, such as spinal cord injury, diabetes mellitus (diabetic neuropathy), or leprosy in countries where that disease is prevalent. These individuals are at risk of tissue damage and infection due to undiscovered injuries. People with diabetes-related nerve damage, for instance, sustain poorly-healing foot ulcers as a result of decreased sensation.\n\nA much smaller number of people are insensitive to pain due to an inborn abnormality of the nervous system, known as \"congenital insensitivity to pain\". Children with this condition incur carelessly-repeated damage to their tongues, eyes, joints, skin, and muscles. Some die before adulthood, and others have a reduced life expectancy. Most people with congenital insensitivity to pain have one of five hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathies (which includes familial dysautonomia and congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis). These conditions feature decreased sensitivity to pain together with other neurological abnormalities, particularly of the autonomic nervous system. A very rare syndrome with isolated congenital insensitivity to pain has been linked with mutations in the \"SCN9A\" gene, which codes for a sodium channel (Na1.7) necessary in conducting pain nerve stimuli.\n\nExperimental subjects challenged by acute pain and patients in chronic pain experience impairments in attention control, working memory, mental flexibility, problem solving, and information processing speed. Acute and chronic pain are also associated with increased depression, anxiety, fear, and anger.\nAlthough pain is considered to be aversive and unpleasant and is therefore usually avoided, a meta-analysis which summarized and evaluated numerous studies from various psychological disciplines, found a reduction in negative affect. Across studies, participants that were subjected to acute physical pain in the laboratory subsequently reported feeling better than those in non-painful control conditions, a finding which was also reflected in physiological parameters.\n\nBefore the relatively recent discovery of neurons and their role in pain, various different body functions were proposed to account for pain. There were several competing early theories of pain among the ancient Greeks: Hippocrates believed that it was due to an imbalance in vital fluids. In the 11th century, Avicenna theorized that there were a number of feeling senses including touch, pain and titillation.\nIn 1644, René Descartes theorized that pain was a disturbance that passed down along nerve fibers until the disturbance reached the brain. Descartes's work, along with Avicenna's, prefigured the 19th-century development of specificity theory. Specificity theory saw pain as \"a specific sensation, with its own sensory apparatus independent of touch and other senses\". Another theory that came to prominence in the 18th and 19th centuries was intensive theory, which conceived of pain not as a unique sensory modality, but an emotional state produced by stronger than normal stimuli such as intense light, pressure or temperature. By the mid-1890s, specificity was backed mostly by physiologists and physicians, and the intensive theory was mostly backed by psychologists. However, after a series of clinical observations by Henry Head and experiments by Max von Frey, the psychologists migrated to specificity almost en masse, and by century's end, most textbooks on physiology and psychology were presenting pain specificity as fact.\nIn 1955, DC Sinclair and G Weddell developed peripheral pattern theory, based on a 1934 suggestion by John Paul Nafe. They proposed that all skin fiber endings (with the exception of those innervating hair cells) are identical, and that pain is produced by intense stimulation of these fibers. Another 20th-century theory was gate control theory, introduced by Ronald Melzack and Patrick Wall in the 1965 \"Science\" article \"Pain Mechanisms: A New Theory\". The authors proposed that both thin (pain) and large diameter (touch, pressure, vibration) nerve fibers carry information from the site of injury to two destinations in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, and that the more large fiber activity relative to thin fiber activity at the inhibitory cell, the less pain is felt.\n\nIn 1968 Ronald Melzack and Kenneth Casey described chronic pain in terms of its three dimensions:\n\n\nThey theorized that pain intensity (the sensory discriminative dimension) and unpleasantness (the affective-motivational dimension) are not simply determined by the magnitude of the painful stimulus, but \"higher\" cognitive activities can influence perceived intensity and unpleasantness. Cognitive activities \"may affect both sensory and affective experience or they may modify primarily the affective-motivational dimension. Thus, excitement in games or war appears to block both dimensions of pain, while suggestion and placebos may modulate the affective-motivational dimension and leave the sensory-discriminative dimension relatively undisturbed.\" (p. 432) The paper ends with a call to action: \"Pain can be treated not only by trying to cut down the sensory input by anesthetic block, surgical intervention and the like, but also by influencing the motivational-affective and cognitive factors as well.\" (p. 435)\n\nWilhelm Erb's (1874) \"intensive\" theory, that a pain signal can be generated by intense enough stimulation of \"any\" sensory receptor, has been soundly disproved. Some sensory fibers do not differentiate between noxious and non-noxious stimuli, while others, nociceptors, respond only to noxious, high intensity stimuli. At the peripheral end of the nociceptor, noxious stimuli generate currents that, above a given threshold, send signals along the nerve fiber to the spinal cord. The \"specificity\" (whether it responds to thermal, chemical or mechanical features of its environment) of a nociceptor is determined by which ion channels it expresses at its peripheral end. Dozens of different types of nociceptor ion channels have so far been identified, and their exact functions are still being determined.\n\nThe pain signal travels from the periphery to the spinal cord along an A-delta or C fiber. Because the A-delta fiber is thicker than the C fiber, and is thinly sheathed in an electrically insulating material (myelin), it carries its signal faster (5–30 m/s) than the unmyelinated C fiber (0.5–2 m/s). Pain evoked by the A-delta fibers is described as sharp and is felt first. This is followed by a duller pain, often described as burning, carried by the C fibers. These \"first order\" neurons enter the spinal cord via Lissauer's tract.\n\nThese A-delta and C fibers connect with \"second order\" nerve fibers in the central gelatinous substance of the spinal cord (laminae II and III of the dorsal horns). The second order fibers then cross the cord via the anterior white commissure and ascend in the spinothalamic tract. Before reaching the brain, the spinothalamic tract splits into the lateral, neospinothalamic tract and the medial, paleospinothalamic tract.\n\nSecond order, spinal cord fibers dedicated to carrying A-delta fiber pain signals, and others that carry both A-delta and C fiber pain signals to the thalamus have been identified. Other spinal cord fibers, known as wide dynamic range neurons, respond to A-delta and C fibers, but also to the large A-beta fibers that carry touch, pressure and vibration signals. Pain-related activity in the thalamus spreads to the insular cortex (thought to embody, among other things, the feeling that distinguishes pain from other homeostatic emotions such as itch and nausea) and anterior cingulate cortex (thought to embody, among other things, the affective/motivational element, the unpleasantness of pain). Pain that is distinctly located also activates primary and secondary somatosensory cortex.\n\nPain is part of the body's defense system, producing a reflexive retraction from the painful stimulus, and tendencies to protect the affected body part while it heals, and avoid that harmful situation in the future. It is an important part of animal life, vital to healthy survival. People with congenital insensitivity to pain have reduced life expectancy.\n\nIn \"\", biologist Richard Dawkins addresses the question of why pain should have the quality of being painful. He describes the alternative as a mental raising of a \"red flag\". To argue why that red flag might be insufficient, Dawkins argues that drives must compete with one other within living beings. The most \"fit\" creature would be the one whose pains are well balanced. Those pains which mean certain death when ignored will become the most powerfully felt. The relative intensities of pain, then, may resemble the relative importance of that risk to our ancestors. This resemblance will not be perfect, however, because natural selection can be a poor designer. This may have maladaptive results such as supernormal stimuli.\n\nIdiopathic pain (pain that persists after the trauma or pathology has healed, or that arises without any apparent cause) may be an exception to the idea that pain is helpful to survival, although some psychodynamic psychologists argue that such pain is psychogenic, enlisted as a protective distraction to keep dangerous emotions unconscious.\n\nIn pain science, thresholds are measured by gradually increasing the intensity of a stimulus such as electric current or heat applied to the body. The pain perception threshold is the point at which the stimulus begins to hurt, and the pain tolerance threshold is reached when the subject acts to stop the pain.\n\nDifferences in pain perception and tolerance thresholds are associated with, among other factors, ethnicity, genetics, and gender. People of Mediterranean origin report as painful some radiant heat intensities that northern Europeans describe as nonpainful. And Italian women tolerate a lesser level of intense electric shock than Jewish or Native American women. Some individuals in all cultures have significantly higher than normal pain perception and tolerance thresholds. For instance, patients who experience painless heart attacks have higher pain thresholds for electric shock, muscle cramp and heat.\n\nA person's self-report is the most reliable measure of pain. Some health care professionals may underestimate pain severity. A definition of pain widely employed in nursing, emphasizing its subjective nature and the importance of believing patient reports, was introduced by Margo McCaffery in 1968: \"Pain is whatever the experiencing person says it is, existing whenever he says it does\". To assess intensity, the patient may be asked to locate their pain on a scale of 0 to 10, with 0 being no pain at all, and 10 the worst pain they have ever felt. Quality can be established by having the patient complete the McGill Pain Questionnaire indicating which words best describe their pain.\n\nThe visual analogue scale is a common, reproducible tool in the assessment of pain and pain relief. The scale is a continuous line anchored by verbal descriptors, one for each extreme of pain where a higher score indicates greater pain intensity. It is usually 10 cm in length with no intermediate descriptors as to avoid marking of scores around a preferred numeric value. When applied as a pain descriptor, these anchors are often 'no pain' and 'worst imaginable pain\". Cut-offs for pain classification have been recommended as no pain (0-4mm), mild pain (5-44mm), moderate pain (45-74mm) and severe pain (75-100mm).\n\nThe Multidimensional Pain Inventory (MPI) is a questionnaire designed to assess the psychosocial state of a person with chronic pain. Analysis of MPI results by Turk and Rudy (1988) found three classes of chronic pain patient: \"(a) dysfunctional, people who perceived the severity of their pain to be high, reported that pain interfered with much of their lives, reported a higher degree of psychological distress caused by pain, and reported low levels of activity; (b) interpersonally distressed, people with a common perception that significant others were not very supportive of their pain problems; and (c) adaptive copers, patients who reported high levels of social support, relatively low levels of pain and perceived interference, and relatively high levels of activity.\" Combining the MPI characterization of the person with their IASP five-category pain profile is recommended for deriving the most useful case description.\n\nWhen a person is non-verbal and cannot self-report pain, observation becomes critical, and specific behaviors can be monitored as pain indicators. Behaviors such as facial grimacing and guarding indicate pain, as well as an increase or decrease in vocalizations, changes in routine behavior patterns and mental status changes. Patients experiencing pain may exhibit withdrawn social behavior and possibly experience a decreased appetite and decreased nutritional intake. A change in condition that deviates from baseline such as moaning with movement or when manipulating a body part, and limited range of motion are also potential pain indicators. In patients who possess language but are incapable of expressing themselves effectively, such as those with dementia, an increase in confusion or display of aggressive behaviors or agitation may signal that discomfort exists, and further assessment is necessary.\n\nInfants do feel pain, but lack the language needed to report it, and so communicate distress by crying. A non-verbal pain assessment should be conducted involving the parents, who will notice changes in the infant which may not be obvious to the health care provider. Pre-term babies are more sensitive to painful stimuli than those carried to full term.\n\nThe way in which one experiences and responds to pain is related to sociocultural characteristics, such as gender, ethnicity, and age. An aging adult may not respond to pain in the same way that a younger person might. Their ability to recognize pain may be blunted by illness or the use of medication. Depression may also keep older adult from reporting they are in pain. Decline in self-care may also indicate the older adult is experiencing pain. They may be reluctant to report pain because they do not want to be perceived as weak, or may feel it is impolite or shameful to complain, or they may feel the pain is a form of deserved punishment.\n\nCultural barriers may also affect the likelihood of reporting pain. Sufferers may feel that certain treatments go against their religious beliefs. They may not report pain because they feel it is a sign that death is near. Many people fear the stigma of addiction, and avoid pain treatment so as not to be prescribed potentially addicting drugs. Many Asians do not want to lose respect in society by admitting they are in pain and need help, believing the pain should be borne in silence, while other cultures feel they should report pain immediately to receive immediate relief. Gender can also be a factor in reporting pain. Gender differences can be the result of social and cultural expectations, with women expected to be more emotional and show pain, and men more stoic.\n\nPain is a symptom of many medical conditions. Knowing the time of onset, location, intensity, pattern of occurrence (continuous, intermittent, etc.), exacerbating and relieving factors, and quality (burning, sharp, etc.) of the pain will help the examining physician to accurately diagnose the problem. For example, chest pain described as extreme heaviness may indicate myocardial infarction, while chest pain described as tearing may indicate aortic dissection.\n\nFunctional magnetic resonance imaging brain scanning has been used to measure pain, and correlates well with self-reported pain.\n\nInadequate treatment of pain is widespread throughout surgical wards, intensive care units, and accident and emergency departments In general practice, the management of all forms of chronic pain including cancer pain, and in end of life care. This neglect extends to all ages, from newborns to medically frail elderly. African and Hispanic Americans are more likely than others to suffer unnecessarily while in the care of a physician; and women's pain is more likely to be undertreated than men's.\n\nThe International Association for the Study of Pain advocates that the relief of pain should be recognized as a human right, that chronic pain should be considered a disease in its own right, and that pain medicine should have the full status of a medical specialty. It is a specialty only in China and Australia at this time. Elsewhere, pain medicine is a subspecialty under disciplines such as anesthesiology, physiatry, neurology, palliative medicine and psychiatry. In 2011, Human Rights Watch alerted that tens of millions of people worldwide are still denied access to inexpensive medications for severe pain.\n\nBreastfeeding may decrease pain when babies are immunized.\n\nAcute pain is usually managed with medications such as analgesics and anesthetics. Caffeine when added to pain medications such as ibuprofen, may provide some additional benefit. Ketamine can be used instead of opiods for short term pain. Management of chronic pain, however, is more difficult, and may require the coordinated efforts of a pain management team, which typically includes medical practitioners, clinical pharmacists, clinical psychologists, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, physician assistants, and nurse practitioners.\n\nSugar (sucrose) when taken by mouth reduces pain in newborn babies undergoing some medical procedures (a lancing of the heel, venipuncture, and intramuscular injections). Sugar does not remove pain from circumcision, and it is unknown if sugar reduces pain for other procedures.\nSugar did not affect pain-related electrical activity in the brains of newborns one second after the heel lance procedure. Sweet liquid by mouth moderately reduces the rate and duration of crying caused by immunization injection in children between one and twelve months of age.\n\nIndividuals with more social support experience less cancer pain, take less pain medication, report less labor pain and are less likely to use epidural anesthesia during childbirth, or suffer from chest pain after coronary artery bypass surgery.\n\nSuggestion can significantly affect pain intensity. About 35% of people report marked relief after receiving a saline injection they believed to be morphine. This placebo effect is more pronounced in people who are prone to anxiety, and so anxiety reduction may account for some of the effect, but it does not account for all of it. Placebos are more effective for intense pain than mild pain; and they produce progressively weaker effects with repeated administration. It is possible for many with chronic pain to become so absorbed in an activity or entertainment that the pain is no longer felt, or is greatly diminished.\n\nCognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) has been shown effective for improving quality of life in those with chronic pain but the reduction in suffering is modest, and the CBT method was not shown to have any effect on outcome. Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) may also effective in the treatment of chronic pain.\n\nA number of meta-analyses have found clinical hypnosis to be effective in controlling pain associated with diagnostic and surgical procedures in both adults and children, as well as pain associated with cancer and childbirth. A 2007 review of 13 studies found evidence for the efficacy of hypnosis in the reduction of chronic pain under some conditions, though the number of patients enrolled in the studies was low, raising issues related to the statistical power to detect group differences, and most lacked credible controls for placebo or expectation. The authors concluded that \"although the findings provide support for the general applicability of hypnosis in the treatment of chronic pain, considerably more research will be needed to fully determine the effects of hypnosis for different chronic-pain conditions.\"\n\nPain is the most common reason for people to use complementary and alternative medicine. An analysis of the 13 highest quality studies of pain treatment with acupuncture, published in January 2009, concluded there was little difference in the effect of real, faked and no acupuncture. However, other reviews have found some benefit. Additionally, there is tentative evidence for a few herbal medicines. There has been some interest in the relationship between vitamin D and pain, but the evidence so far from controlled trials for such a relationship, other than in osteomalacia, is inconclusive.\n\nA 2003 meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials found that spinal manipulation was \"more effective than sham therapy but was no more or less effective than general practitioner care, analgesics, physical therapy, exercise, or back school\" in the treatment of lower back pain.\n\nPain is the main reason for visiting an emergency department in more than 50% of cases, and is present in 30% of family practice visits. Several epidemiological studies have reported widely varying prevalence rates for chronic pain, ranging from 12 to 80% of the population. It becomes more common as people approach death. A study of 4,703 patients found that 26% had pain in the last two years of life, increasing to 46% in the last month.\n\nA survey of 6,636 children (0–18 years of age) found that, of the 5,424 respondents, 54% had experienced pain in the preceding three months. A quarter reported having experienced recurrent or continuous pain for three months or more, and a third of these reported frequent and intense pain. The intensity of chronic pain was higher for girls, and girls' reports of chronic pain increased markedly between ages 12 and 14.\n\nIn 1994, responding to the need for a more useful system for describing chronic pain, the International Association for the Study of Pain (IASP) classified pain according to specific characteristics:\nHowever, this system has been criticized by Clifford J. Woolf and others as inadequate for guiding research and treatment.\nWoolf suggests three classes of pain:\n\nThe nature or meaning of physical pain has been diversely understood by religious or secular traditions from antiquity to modern times.\n\nPhysical pain is an important political topic in relation to various issues, including pain management policy, drug control, animal rights or animal welfare, torture, and pain compliance. In various contexts, the deliberate infliction of pain in the form of corporal punishment is used as retribution for an offence, or for the purpose of disciplining or reforming a wrongdoer, or to deter attitudes or behaviour deemed unacceptable. The slow slicing, or death by a thousand cuts, was a form of execution in China reserved for crimes viewed as especially severe, such as high treason or patricide. In some cultures, extreme practices such as mortification of the flesh or painful rites of passage are highly regarded. For example, the Sateré-Mawé people of Brazil use intentional bullet ant stings as part of their initiation rites to become warriors.\n\nThe most reliable method for assessing pain in most humans is by asking a question: a person may report pain that cannot be detected by any known physiological measure. However, like infants, animals cannot answer questions about whether they feel pain; thus the defining criterion for pain in humans cannot be applied to them. Philosophers and scientists have responded to this difficulty in a variety of ways. René Descartes for example argued that animals lack consciousness and therefore do not experience pain and suffering in the way that humans do. Bernard Rollin of Colorado State University, the principal author of two U.S. federal laws regulating pain relief for animals, writes that researchers remained unsure into the 1980s as to whether animals experience pain, and that veterinarians trained in the U.S. before 1989 were simply taught to ignore animal pain. In his interactions with scientists and other veterinarians, he was regularly asked to \"prove\" that animals are conscious, and to provide \"scientifically acceptable\" grounds for claiming that they feel pain. Carbone writes that the view that animals feel pain differently is now a minority view. Academic reviews of the topic are more equivocal, noting that although the argument that animals have at least simple conscious thoughts and feelings has strong support, some critics continue to question how reliably animal mental states can be determined. The ability of invertebrate species of animals, such as insects, to feel pain and suffering is also unclear.\n\nThe presence of pain in an animal cannot be known for certain, but it can be inferred through physical and behavioral reactions. Specialists currently believe that all vertebrates can feel pain, and that certain invertebrates, like the octopus, may also. As for other animals, plants, or other entities, their ability to feel physical pain is at present a question beyond scientific reach, since no mechanism is known by which they could have such a feeling. In particular, there are no known nociceptors in groups such as plants, fungi, and most insects, except for instance in fruit flies.\n\nIn vertebrates, endogenous opioids are neuromodulators that moderate pain by interacting with opioid receptors. Opioids and opioid receptors occur naturally in crustaceans and, although at present no certain conclusion can be drawn, their presence indicates that lobsters may be able to experience pain. Opioids may mediate their pain in the same way as in vertebrates. Veterinary medicine uses, for actual or potential animal pain, the same analgesics and anesthetics as used in humans.\n\nFirst attested in English in 1297, the word \"peyn\" comes from the Old French \"peine\", in turn from Latin \"poena\" meaning \"punishment, penalty\" (in L.L. also meaning \"torment, hardship, suffering\") and that from Greek ποινή (\"poine\"), generally meaning \"price paid, penalty, punishment\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "903460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=903460", "title": "Picture superiority effect", "text": "Picture superiority effect\n\nThe picture superiority effect refers to the phenomenon in which pictures and images are more likely to be remembered than words. This effect has been demonstrated in numerous experiments using different methods. It is based on the notion that \"human memory is extremely sensitive to the symbolic modality of presentation of event information\". Explanations for the picture superiority effect are not concrete and are still being debated.\n\nAllan Paivio's dual-coding theory is a basis of picture superiority effect. Paivio claims that pictures have advantages over words with regards to coding and retrieval of stored memory because pictures are coded more easily and can be retrieved from symbolic mode, while the dual coding process using words is more difficult for both coding and retrieval. Another explanation of the higher recall in picture superiority is due to the higher familiarity or frequency of pictured objects (Asch & Ebenholtz, 1962). According to dual-coding theory (1971, 1986), memory exists either (or both) verbally or \"imaginally\". Concrete concepts presented as pictures are encoded into both systems; however, abstract concepts are recorded only verbally. In psychology, the effect has implications for salience in attribution theory as well as the availability heuristic. It is also relevant to advertising and user interface design.\n\nPicture stimuli have an advantage over word stimuli because they are dually encoded; they generate a verbal and image code, whereas word stimuli only generate a verbal code. Pictures are likely to generate a verbal label, whereas words are not likely to generate image labels.\n\nPictures hold two encoding advantages over words. Pictures are perceptually more distinct from one another than are words, thus increasing their chance for retrieval. In experiments when similarity among pictures was high, no picture superiority effect was present. Pictures are also believed to assess meaning more directly than words. Levels of processing theory apply when words and pictures are compared under semantic study instructions (rate the pleasantness of each item), recall is very similar for pictures and words, as both were encoded at deeper levels.\n\nPicture superiority results from superior encoding for pictures as opposed to words, which facilitate greater recollection for pictures.\n\nGreater overlap of processing at study and test result in increased performance. TAP accounts for picture superiority by an interaction of encoding and retrieval. If items are encoded during a semantic task, performance should be higher for a memory test that relies on concepts related to the items for retrieval than a test that relies on perceptual features.\n\nThis effect has been shown to occur in recognition memory tasks, where items studied as pictures are better remembered than items studied as words, even when targets are presented as words during the test phase. Whether the picture superiority effect influences the familiarity and/or recollection processes, according to the dual-process models, thought to underlie recognition memory is not clear.\n\nIn experiments of associative recognition memory, participants studied random concrete word pairs, and line drawing pairs. They had to discriminate between intact and rearranged pairs at test. The picture superiority effect continued to express a strong effect with a greater hit rate for intact picture pairs. This further supports encoding theories More recent research in associative recognition shows support that semantic meaning of nameable pictures is activated faster than that of words, allowing for more meaningful associations between items depicted as pictures to be generated.\n\nPictures have distinctive features that enable to distinguish pictures from words and such discriminability increase memory ability in comparison with verbal cues (Jenkins, Neale & Deno, 19 67). Picture Superiority effect was also evident for memory recall during semantic procession (Childers & Houston, 1984). Moreover, pictures in pairs or group were better organized in our memory than words thus resulting in superiority in recall (Pavio & Csapo, 1973). The picture superiority effect is also present in spatial memory, where locations of items and photographs were remembered better than locations of words.\n\nThe advantage of pictures over words is only evident when visual similarity is not a reliable cue; because it takes longer to understand pictures than words (Snodgrass & McCullough, 1986). Pictures are only superior to words for list learning because differentiation is easier for pictures (Dominowski & Gadlin, 1968). In reverse picture superiority it was observed that learning was much slower when the responses were pictures (Postman, 1978). Words produced a faster response than pictures and pictures did not have an advantages of having easier access to sematic memory or superior effect over words for dual-coding theory (Amrhein, McDaniel & Waddill 2002). Similarly, studies where response time deadlines have been implemented, the reverse superiority effect was reported. This is related to the dual-process model of familiarity and recollection. When deadlines for the response were short, the process of familiarity was present, along with an increased tendency to recall words over pictures. When response deadlines were longer, the process of recollection was being utilized, and a strong picture superiority effect was present. In addition, equivalent response time was reported for pictures and words for intelligence comparison (Paivio & Marschark, 1980). Contrary to the assumption that pictures have faster access to the same semantic code than words do; all semantic information is stored in a single system. The only difference is that pictures and words access different features of the semantic code (te Linde, 1982).\n\nAcross the lifespan, a gradual development of the picture superiority effect is evident. Some studies have shown that it appears to become more pronounced with age, while others have found that this effect is also observed among younger children (Whitehouse, Mayber, Durkin, 2006). However, the major contribution in picture superiority in recognition memory among children was familiarity (Defeyter, Russo & McPartlin, 2009). During childhood, specifically among seven-year-olds, the picture superiority effect is lesser in magnitude than in other age groups. This could be due to the lack of inner speech among younger children supporting the dual coding theory of Paivio. In healthy older adults, the picture superiority effect was found to be greater than it was for younger adults, in comparison to recognition for words, which was disadvantaged for older adults. In that regard, seniors can benefit from using pictorial information to retain textual information (Cherry et al., 2008). While memory for words is impaired for older adults, pictures help restore their impaired memory and function properly (Ally et al., 2008). In addition, older adults have shown the same level of capability for identifying correct items in comparison with young adults when items were accompanied with pictures (Smith, Hunt & Dunlap, 2015). In populations with Alzheimer's disease, and other mild cognitive impairments, the picture superiority effect remains evident. ERP activity indicates that patients with amnesic mild cognitive impairment utilized frontal-lobe based memory processes to support successful recognition for pictures, which was similar to healthy controls, but not for words.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49836188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49836188", "title": "Political philology", "text": "Political philology\n\nPolitical philology is \"an active mode of understanding\" texts. It does not simply take (religious) texts at face-value as religious texts without any connection to a social and political context, but situates them in a historical context, and is sensitive to the social and political implications and usages of a (religious) text.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26538461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26538461", "title": "Portuguese customary units", "text": "Portuguese customary units\n\nPortuguese customary units were used in Portugal, Brazil and other parts of the Portuguese Empire until the adoption of the metric system in the 19th century.\n\nIn 1814, Portugal was the second country in the world – after France – to officially adopt the metric system. The system then adopted used the Portuguese traditional units designation instead of the original French ones (e.g.: \"vara\" for metre; \"canada\" for litre; and \"libra\" for kilogram). However, several difficulties prevented the implementation of the new system and the old Portuguese customary units continued to be used, both in Portugal and in Brazil (which meanwhile had become an independent country in 1822).\n\nThe metric system was finally adopted by Portugal and its colonies in 1852, this time using the original names of the units. Brazil replaced Portuguese customary units with the metric system only in 1862.\n\nLength and weight standards of Portuguese customary units were defined, at national level, in the reign of Manuel I of Portugal in 1495. The remaining units were different from one region to another, but did not vary greatly from those established for Lisbon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1593030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1593030", "title": "Product/process distinction", "text": "Product/process distinction\n\nThe product/process distinction is the distinction between the product information and the process information of a consumer good. Product information is information that pertains to a consumer good, namely to its price, quality, and safety (its proximate attributes). Process information is information that pertains to the means by which the consumer good is made i.e. the working conditions under which it comes into being, as well as the treatment of animals involved in its production chain (its peripheral attributes).\n\nThe product/process distinction is used by the World Trade Organization (WTO) as a way to determine whether or not a complaint filed by an importing nation is valid and warrants trade barriers against the exporting nation. Under WTO rules, an importing nation can lodge a complaint with the WTO that the exporting nation uses methods for obtaining or producing the good in question that the importing nation finds to be immoral or unethical. If the independent World Trade Organization Advisory Board, made up of a panel of international law and trade experts, finds that the importing nation has a legitimate complaint, enforces said ethical standards for domestic production, and isn't trying to merely skirt its free trade obligations, then the Board will rule that trade barriers are justified. Despite what World Trade Organization officials have said, in practice the World Trade Organization finds these complaints illegitimate the vast majority of the time.\n\nFor example, if the European Union (EU) wants to ban imports of cosmetics that were tested on laboratory animals on grounds that such testing is unethical, it can file a complaint with the World Trade Organization and, in theory, the WTO would allow the EU to enact trade barriers provided that the EU bans its own domestic cosmetic producers from testing on laboratory animals. \nIn these cases, however, the World Trade Organization has consistently ruled that such barriers are illegal because only the process is different, while the final product itself is not. Therefore, the WTO has made the product/process distinction an important factor in determining whether trade barriers are justified.\n\nThe World Trade Organization has stated that if nations were able to enact barriers merely because the importing nation's standards differ from their own, control could be lost and barriers could be enacted around the world for frivolous reasons. However, many complain that these rulings go against the stated intentions of the World Trade Organization, and prove that the organization often puts commercial interests above environmental, ethical, and human rights issues.\n"}
{"id": "2032093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2032093", "title": "Rationalist International", "text": "Rationalist International\n\nRationalist International is an organization with the stated aim to represent a rational view of the world, making the voice of reason heard and considered where public opinion is formed and decisions are made.\n\nRationalism is an attitude that accepts the primacy of reason and aims to establish a system of philosophy and ethics verifiable by experience, independent of all arbitrary assumptions of authority.\n\nRationalist International argues for a logical approach to human problems, suggests alternatives to religious dogma, defends freedom of thought and civil liberties and strives for the secularization of politics (see secular humanism), society and educational systems. Rationalists counter superstition, aim to promote an open and just society, endorse the scientific method and recognize the importance of human emotions and imagination. \n\nRationalist International was founded in December 1995 during the First International Rationalist Conference at New Delhi, with delegates from 28 countries. Sanal Edamaruku, then Secretary General of the Indian Rationalist Association, became the first president of the new international organization. \n\nIn January 2000, Rationalist International organized the Second International Conference at Trivandrum, Kerala in which prominent rationalist thinkers from different parts of the world opened the discussion about the Rationalist Agenda for the new century. Paul Kurtz (founder, Center for Inquiry, USA) received the 1st International Rationalist Award during this conference.\n\nThe Third International Rationalist Conference was held at New Delhi in 2002. Jim Herrick (Director of Rationalist Press Association, UK) received the 2nd International Rationalist Award.\n\nHonorary Associates include: Dr. (The Netherlands), Prof. Mike Archer (Australia), Katsuaki Asai (Japan), Prof. Colin Blakemore (UK), Dr. Bill Cooke (New Zealand), Dr. Helena Cronin (UK), Prof. Richard Dawkins (UK), Jan Loeb Eisler (USA), Tom Flynn (USA), Jim Herrick (UK), Ellen Johnson (USA), Dr. Richard Leakey (Kenya), Iain Middleton (New Zealand), Dr. Taslima Nasreen (Bangladesh), Steinar Nilsen (Norway), Prof. Jean-Claude Pecker (France), James Randi (USA), Prof. Ajoy Roy (Bangladesh), Dr. Younus Shaikh (Pakistan), Barbara Smoker (UK), Richard Stallman (USA), Prof. (The Netherlands), David Tribe (Australia), K. Veeramani (India), Barry Williams (Australia), Prof. Richard Wiseman (UK), Prof. Lewis Wolpert (UK), Andrzaj Koraszewski (Poland), Małgorzata Koraszewska (Poland) and Maryam Namazie (Iran).\n\nFormer Honorary Associates include: Sir Hermann Bondi (deceased, UK), Prof. Vern Bullough (deceased, USA), Joseph Edamaruku (deceased, India), Pekka Elo (deceased, Finland), Prof. Antony Flew (deceased, UK), Christopher Hitchens (deceased, USA), Prof. Paul Kurtz (USA), Lavanam (deceased, India), Dr. Henry Morgentaler (Canada), Harry Stopes-Roe (deceased, UK), and Dr. G N Jyoti Shankar (deceased, USA).\n\nThe internet-based news bulletin of Rationalist International has wide circulation around the world. It appears in English, Finnish, French, German and Spanish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45638883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45638883", "title": "Semigroup with three elements", "text": "Semigroup with three elements\n\nIn abstract algebra, a semigroup with three elements is an object consisting of three elements and an associative operation defined on them. The basic example would be the three integers 0, 1, and −1, together with the operation of multiplication. Multiplication of integers is associative, and the product of any two of these three integers is again one of these three integers.\n\nThere are 18 inequivalent ways to define an associative operation on three elements: while there are, altogether, a total of 3 = 19683 different binary operations that can be defined, only 113 of these are associative, and many of these are isomorphic or antiisomorphic so that there are essentially only 18 possibilities. \n\nOne of these is \"C\", the cyclic group with three elements. The others all have a semigroup with two elements as subsemigroups. In the example above, the set {−1,0,1} under multiplication contains both {0,1} and {−1,1} as subsemigroups (the latter is a sub\"group\", \"C\"). \n\nSix of these are bands, meaning that all three elements are idempotent, so that the product of any element with itself is itself again. Two of these bands are commutative, therefore semilattices (one of them is the three-element totally ordered set, and the other is a three-element semilattice that is not a lattice). The other four come in anti-isomorphic pairs. \n\nOne of these non-commutative bands results from adjoining an identity element to \"LO\", the left zero semigroup with two elements (or, dually, to \"RO\", the right zero semigroup). It is sometimes called the flip-flop monoid, referring to flip-flop circuits used in electronics: the three elements can be described as \"set\", \"reset\", and \"do nothing\". This semigroup occurs in the Krohn–Rhodes decomposition of finite semigroups. The irreducible elements in this decomposition are the finite simple groups plus this three-element semigroup, and its subsemigroups.\n\nThere are two cyclic semigroups, one described by the equation \"x\" = \"x\", which has \"O\", the null semigroup with two elements, as a subsemigroup. The other is described by \"x\" = \"x\" and has \"C\", the group with two elements, as a subgroup. (The equation \"x\" = \"x\" describes \"C\", the group with three elements, already mentioned.)\n\nThere are seven other non-cyclic non-band commutative semigroups, including the initial example of {−1, 0, 1}, and \"O\", the null semigroup with three elements. There are also two other anti-isomorphic pairs of non-commutative non-band semigroups.\n\n"}
{"id": "15461919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15461919", "title": "Sex workers' rights", "text": "Sex workers' rights\n\nThe term sex workers' rights encompasses a variety of aims being pursued globally by individuals and organizations that specifically involve the human, health, and labor rights of sex workers and their clients. The goals of these movements are diverse, but generally aim to decriminalize and destigmatize sex work, and ensure fair treatment before legal and cultural forces on a local and international level for all persons in the sex industry.\n\nThe term \"sex work\" refers primarily to prostitution, but also encompasses adult video performers, phone sex operators, webcam models, dancers in strip clubs, and others who provide sexually-related services. Some extend the use of the term to include \"support personnel\" such as managers, agents, videographers, club bouncers, and others. The debate over sex work is often characterized as an issue of \"women's\" rights, especially by those who argue that prostitution is inherently oppressive and seek to criminalize it or keep it illegal, but in fact, there are also many male and non-binary individuals engaged in providing sexual services. Most sex workers do not wish to be branded as criminals and regard laws against prostitution, pornography, and other parts of the sex industry as violating their rights.\n\nSince the use of red umbrellas by sex workers in Venice, Italy, in 2001—as part of the 49th Venice Biennale of Art—a red umbrella has become the foremost internationally recognized symbol for sex worker rights.\n\nIn most countries, even those where sex work is legal, sex workers of all kinds feel that they are stigmatized and marginalized, and that this prevents them from seeking legal redress for discrimination (for e. g., racial discrimination by a strip club owner, dismissal from a teaching position because of involvement in the sex industry), non-payment by a client, assault, or rape. Activists also believe that clients of sex workers may also be stigmatized and marginalized, in some cases even more so than sex workers themselves. For instance, in Sweden, Norway, and Iceland, it is illegal to buy sexual acts, but not to sell them (the buyer is said to have committed a crime, but not the prostitute).\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, the main topics in feminist discourse on women's sexuality were pornography, prostitution, and human trafficking. This led to the birth of the mobilization for sex worker rights in America. Carol Leigh is credited with coining the term \"sex work\" in the early 1980s and it was later popularized by a book published in 1989 called \"Sex Work\". Around this time, pornography in particular was a prominent debate among feminists campaigning for women's rights. The feminists involved in these debates held opposing views on how to eliminate sexual violence against women, and those involved were either classified as \"liberal feminists\" or \"radical feminists\". A third group of feminists is described as \"pro-sex\" or \"sex positive feminism\", and this view is considered the true feminist defense of pornography.\n\nThe argument of the radical side rests upon the premise that pornography depicts women as subordinates and perpetrates violence against women. Some of the main anti-porn feminists involved in the debates included Page Mellish, Andrea Dworkin, and Catharine MacKinnon. Dworkin insisted that the oppression of women occurs through sexual subordination, and that in order for gender equality to exist, subordination must be eliminated. Thus, she states that pornography and prostitution are incompatible with gender equality. Similarly, MacKinnon states that pornography is an act of sexual violence. On the grounds that pornography violated women's civil rights, she and Dworkin proposed a law named the \"Anti-Pornography Civil Rights Ordinance\" that allowed women to seek reparations for damages done by pornography through civil courts. Likewise, Page Mellish, the founder of Feminists Fighting Pornography (FFP), believed that issues facing feminists were rooted in pornography. Mellish allied with conservatives in 1992 to fight for the passing of the \"Pornography Victims' Compensation Act\", which was modeled after Dworkin and MacKinnon's ordinance.\n\nContrarily, liberal feminists believe that capitalism allows women to freely make whatever choices they desire. As such, some women freely choose to participate in pornography, as they do in other forms of labour. The main thing that these feminists fight for is anti-censorship, regardless of whether they personally agree with pornography or not. On this side of the debate are feminists such as Gayle Rubin and Lynn Chancer. Rubin argues that anti-pornography laws could negatively harm sexual minorities such as gays/lesbians, sex workers, and feminists because they would create new problems and modes of abuse resulting from the anti-pornography side's use of a limited amount of porn that demonstrates the most extreme cases of violence such as sadomasochism. Likewise, Chancer argues that it is possible for such imagery to be able to circulate consensually and lawfully while genuine feelings of pleasure are being experienced without women feeling subordinated. She also states that some of these feminists believe that pornography is negatively affecting women by leading to violence against women when in actuality it is not. Thus, she concludes that radical feminists are looking at pornography as a quick fix to a much larger societal problem.\n\nSex-positive feminists believe that no form of sexual expression should be vilified, except that which is not consensual. One of the main advocates of this feminist perspective is Carol Queen. She argues that radical feminists probably generalize too widely as far as women are concerned, and do not take into consideration more complicated circumstances such as sadomasochism and prostitution. Elisa Glick also states that configurations of power within relationships do not prevent women from exercising it and that they can be used to enable women to exercise it.\nThere is debate on whether the consumption of porn among men is good for their well being, though in a study of over 300 men aged 18 to 73 97% report that they have watched porn, with 94% reporting having done so in the last 6 months and 82% reporting doing so in a manner they would consider \"regularly\".\nMen of all ages report an overall positive experience with porn, though younger men express greater negative than older men- which researchers speculate is because porn skews their perceptions of sex.\n\nPornography debates provided leeway for the emergence of the \"Sex Wars\" debates, a title assigned by feminist scholars. These debates began in the 1980s and centered upon ways that women were depicted in heterosexual sexual relations. The main premise of the anti-pornography movement rests upon the argument that pornography is degrading and violent towards women. These feminists also believe that pornography encourages men to behave violently towards women. However, liberal feminists argued that this argument does not take into account the pleasure that women can experience, stating that these arguments could backfire against women and actually subject them to a greater degree of subordination.\n\nThus, the debates started to become centralized on the role of dominance within heterosexual relationships and how this dominance is transferred to other areas of women’s lives. These theories of male sexuality and female objectification and sexuality are controversial because they framed later debates about human trafficking, in which coerced workers are distinguished from voluntary workers.\n\nThe human trafficking debate, a prominent discourse in the 21st century, has materialized as a result of the movement. Current debates center on whether the best way to protect women would be through abolition, criminalization, decriminalization, or legalization.\n\nSex worker advocates who are fighting for legalization or decriminalization of prostitution contend that criminalizing consensual sex acts among adults creates a black market which worsens the problem of forced human trafficking rather than reducing it. They decry the paternalistic attitude of what they disparagingly call \"rescue missions\", law enforcement raids that regard all sex workers as in need of \"saving\" fail to distinguish the minority of sex workers who are coerced from the vast majority who engage in sex work voluntarily. Furthermore, liberal feminists such as Ronald Weitzer and Gayle Rubin, argue that the definition of sex work as inherently violent has created a “moral panic” that influences political discourse. They contend that this \"panic\" has led to the construction of a trafficking victim who may actually be a woman migrating for work. These feminists argue that this can backfire because it does not protect those women who voluntarily enter into sex work.\n\nOpponents of the sex workers' rights movement, such as Melissa Farley and Janice Raymond, argue that prostitution should be abolished because legalization can increase incidences of human trafficking. The \"New UN Trafficking Protocol\" by Raymond argues that many victims are trafficked to countries in which sex work is legalized or decriminalized, and because they are trafficked under the guise of migrants they are not protected. Raymond also argues that it is impossible to separate the exploitation experienced by local prostitutes from the exploitative experiences of trafficked prostitutes, as they are very similar. Thus, to end sex slavery, the report declares that everyone involved in sex work needs to be criminalized so that the industry can be abolished. Similarly, Farley argues that engagement in voluntary sex work is a decision made by women in the absence of alternative choices, and that it therefore cannot accurately be described as a voluntary and freely made choice.\n\nMost activists campaigning for the formation of policies that protect sex workers from violence fall into two main categories: abolitionism or criminalization, and legalization or decriminalization.\n\nEarly reformers identified the key problem with prostitution as male lust that lured innocent women into a depraved life as prostitutes. Thus, abolitionist proponents believe that prostitution is an exploitative system that is harmful to the women involved. Therefore, these activists believe that in order to prevent violence against women, the customers, pimps, and panderers should be punished so that the entire institution can be demolished. Because this policy approach is built upon the idea that women are helpless victims, opponents of this view believe that it is paternalistic and not empowering to women.\n\nA study by Melissa Farley, a well-known supporter of the abolition of prostitution, and colleagues, suggests that violence is an intrinsic part of prostitution in which the chances of experiencing violence increases along with the number of years involved in prostitution. This study also concludes that prostitution tends to be multi-traumatic in all forms.\nFarley and colleagues also used the Netherlands as an example of a country to support the idea that legalized prostitution can still inflict harm on those involved. They stated that over 90% of the sex workers tend to show symptoms of PTSD. Therefore, these proponents advocate for abolitionism and criminalization as a method of protecting sex workers.\n\nCriminalization proponents believe that the way to protect women from interpersonal violence is to punish both sex workers and customers for partaking in the buying and selling of sex.\n\nMany proponents of abolitionism or criminalization of prostitution commonly use ten reasons based on studies done on the effects of prostitution in countries where it is legalized or decriminalized.\n\n\nLegalization or decriminalization proponents, on the other hand, believe that the selling and buying of sex exchange will continue no matter what. Therefore, the only way to effectively prevent violence is to acknowledge this and for government to build policies and laws that deal with the issue through regulation of the business. Legalization/Decriminalization proponents believe that a system that prohibits prostitution creates an oppressive environment for prostitutes. Proponents of this view also recommend that policies are built that places restrictions on trafficking and exploitation of sex workers.\n\nThe legalization of sex work often entails additional restrictions and requirements placed on sex workers as well as registering with official government offices. Additionally, many activists favor decriminalization over legalization. Decriminalization involves a focus on laws which protect the rights of sex workers, such as those against coercion into or to stay in sex work, while all consensual sexual contact between adult sex workers and adult clients would not be criminalized.\n\nRonald Weitzer, a well-known proponent for the legalization/decriminalization of prostitution, stated that the use of nonscientific evidence about prostitution has contributed to a \"moral panic\" because opponents commonly use the argument that prostitution is inherently violent and unable to be regulated. However, he also claims that other governments have been able to reject this notion and find ways to regulate it and uses Nevada as an example.\n\nBelow are some of the main premises that the pro-legalization and pro-decriminalization of prostitution movement rests upon.\n\nDepending on regional law, sex workers' activities may be regulated, controlled, tolerated, or prohibited. For example, prostitution is illegal in many countries, but it is fully legalized in several jurisdictions, including the Netherlands, Germany, some Australian states, and several counties in the US state of Nevada.\n\nIn both Canada and the UK, dancers in strip clubs are independent contractors who face significant problems that they are unable to rectify because of their inability to challenge employers through organized action.\n\nIn the UK, a study was conducted which inquired about dancers’ experiences to get a better understanding to determine whether or not it could be costly for women to work some nights. It stated that often when the club offered promotions with gimmicks, dancers would be required to work without payment. Furthermore, dancers may be required to promote events without pay as part of the house rules. If they tried to complain, the club owners would threaten to dismiss them. Thus, the study suggests that strip club workers in the UK operate under vulnerable conditions without the capacity to organize for better working conditions. Moreover, the study states that dancers are also required to pay their “house moms” and the DJs, as well as being pressured to buy drinks for their customers and other dancers, which hampers their profit-making ability.\n\nThe fees of dancers’ house fees can be large and sometimes they are not waived or lowered when business is slow. Also, clubs may continue to hire women even during bad economic downturns. Therefore, dancers feel that their earning potential is lowered.\n\nIn addition to house fees and entry fees, many dancers are not paid for their stage shows because they are considered a part of self-advertisement. This is also considered another rule that comes along with their job description. In the UK, the club generally takes thirty percent commission.\n\nThe final way clubs make money is through fines and tips. This study found that there could be a fine for something such as chewing gum or having gum in a bag that ranges from twenty to thirty pounds. The most common fines were chewing gum, using cellular phones on the floor, and tardiness. It goes on to say that some dancers may have to pay to take time off. Dancers also tip people that work in the club such as waitresses and doormen in order to get them to direct customers to them. Other reasons that motivate dancers to tip include tipping security so that the dancers will not be fined and tipping DJs to be called during good song and opportune times.\n\nIn the Canadian city of Toronto, workers must be in possession of an adult entertainer license that is only provided following a criminal record check and the submission of a form. Applicants are initially charged about C$$400 and are required to pay an annual C$270 renewal fee. Municipal bylaws govern the standards that workers must abide by to maintain their license.\n\nA survey undertaken by the Toronto city council in 2012 was for the purpose informing a reconsideration of the regulations around licensing for strip club-based sex workers. The most significant aspect was a reappraisal of the “no touching” rule so that it specified areas of the body to prevent people being fined in the event of acceptable casual physical contact. Of those sex workers who responded to the survey, 67 percent stated that they had been sexually assaulted or touched without their consent, while they further documented the responses from their employers: 2 percent called the police, 34 percent asked the customer to leave, 22 percent ignored the incident, 4 percent blamed the stripper and 14 percent dismissed the incidents as part of the job.\n\nThe Association of Women Prostitutes of Argentina (AMMAR) was started by Elena Reynaga, who now heads the South American sex workers' network RedTraSex. AMMAR leader Sandra Cabrera was killed for her activism in 2004.\n\nOn March 10, 2014, the All India Network of Sex Workers, an umbrella group of sex worker organizations, campaigned for pension rights. Representative of 90 sex worker organisations across 16 Indian states, the Network presented a letter explaining that sex workers in India are not treated equally in social security terms, stating: \"Sex workers, including their family members, can't access various social entitlements which are offered to citizens in general. We consider sex work like any other occupation belonging to the unorganised sector and we should be brought under the universal pension scheme.\" A spokesperson for the Network also informed the media that sex workers in India retire \"by the age of 40-45 years\", an earlier age than the broader population.\n\nA study by Janice Raymond states that there can be many detrimental consequences to legalizing and decriminalizing prostitution. One consequence mentioned was that prostitution can be seen as a suitable and normal option for the poor. Therefore, poor women can be easily exploited when there is a lack of sexual services which does not lead to their empowerment. Melissa Farley supported this idea with an analysis stating that most women do not rationally decide to enter prostitution; rather, the decision is made as a survival choice and that there are certain circumstances can drive women into the field of prostitution, leaving them with a choice that is more along the lines of voluntary slavery. Thus, it is merely used as a surviving strategy.\n\nFurthermore, Raymond states that businesses in the sex industry are able to offer services to any men which has led to more gender inequality because women have to accept that prostitution is a new norm. She supported this by saying that even disabled men are able to receive sexual services, and their caregivers (mostly women) are required to take them to these establishments and assist them in engaging in sexual acts. Another consequence Raymond mentioned was that child prostitution has increased in the Netherlands. She suggests this is because the Netherlands has created a prostitution-promoting environment through laws concerning children that make it easier for abusers to use children without penalty. She also adds that the distinction between voluntary and forced prostitution could be detrimental because it can be argued that the thought of someone being forced into prostitution can be exciting for some men because it may be a part of clients' fantasies. Finally, another study states that the legalization or decriminalization can be detrimental because studies that surveyed sex workers where it is legal concluded that violence is accepted as part of the job with the universal experience of molestation and abuse.\n\nA decision by the House and the Senate in Hawaii is expected in May 2014 after police agreed in March 2014 not to oppose the revision of a law that was implemented in the 1970s, allowing undercover police officers to engage in sexual relations with sex workers during the course of investigations. Following initial protest from supporters of the legislation, all objections were retracted on March 25, 2014. A Honolulu police spokeswoman informed \"TIME\" magazine that, at the time of the court's decision, no reports had been made in regard to the abuse of the exemption by police, while a Hawaiian senator stated to the media: \"I suppose that in retrospect, the police probably feel somewhat embarrassed about this whole situation.\" However, the Pacifica Alliance to Stop Slavery and other advocates affirmed their knowledge of police brutality in this area and explained that the fear of retribution is the main deterrent for sex workers who seek to report offending officers. At a Hawaiian Senate Judiciary Committee hearing, also in March 2014, an attorney testified that his client was raped three times by Hawaiian police before prostitution was cited as the reason for her subsequent arrest.\n\nBarbara Brents and Kathryn Hausbeck state in their study that the legalization of prostitution in Nevada's brothels allows for improved regulation and protection for both businesses and workers. Academic Ronald Weitzer supports this idea by citing the impact of the numerous safety measures that ensure the safety of the workers.\n\nBrents and Hausbeck's case study of Nevada's brothels entailed examples of how they believe protection mechanisms were designed to account for the entire process of each individual job—that is the time that a sex worker is with a customer. They started by saying that the negotiation process for sex workers in Nevada requires the use of an intercom during the process so that workers will not betray the business owners and so that owners can know if the customers are putting the workers at risk. After the price is negotiated, the money is paid and taken out of the room by the sex worker. At that point, the sex workers have the opportunity to let security guards know if there is anything unsafe or uncomfortable about the situation so that security can be alerted. Another protection mechanism requires security to interrupt the workers after the allotted period of time to demand that the customers either leave or renegotiate the price, so that sex workers are not coerced or forced into providing additional services without a fee. Finally, the study concludes that sex workers are offered protection from one another in brothels because of strictly enforced rules and the relationships that brothels have been able to build with local law enforcement officials. According to some legalization supporters, this protection creates an environment that can be empowering for women to work in.\n\nAdditionally, proponents argue that workers must also comply with health regulations and engage in preventative practices. They state that this compliance leads to a system that becomes mutually advantageous for brothels and sex workers, because a perception of safety by workers is profitable for the brothel. In brothels in Nevada, it is a requirement for sex workers to be tested and verified as healthy. Afterwards, they are required to be checked on a periodic basis for certain STIs. Condom usage is also mandatory and this is advertised by the brothels so that customers know beforehand. Finally, sex workers are able to examine the customers before any services are given to make sure there are no signs of visible STIs. If there are any suspicions, the worker is allowed to refund the customer and refuse service.\n\nIn countries where sex work is either criminalized or illegal, or both, sex workers face many potential threats of violence. One major threat of violence is the risk that they may contract a sexually transmitted infection (STI) due to their labor and context-dependent barriers that can be either structural (government) or individual (fear) in nature. Since street-based violence can be commonplace, this further increases their susceptibility to contracting a disease due to factors such as coercion or rape, as they lack the ability to demand that a condom is used or to refuse service. In addition, the World Health Organization states that sex workers have been known to be refused health services when seeking out disease prevention and treatment because of the nature of their occupation. Furthermore, sex workers are also afraid to seek out health services for problems because of structural barriers that prevent them from knowing about and utilizing services that could teach them better prevention methods.\n\nA particular example of the disease threats sex workers are faced with can be demonstrated via a study conducted in Cambodia where the rate of HIV has increased. This report studied the prevalence of HIV among a group of indirect sex workers in Cambodia called \"beer promotion girls\", women employed by distributors to promote and sell beers. The study found that they have the highest rate of HIV because they often sell sex as a means of supplementing their salary. This report also found that among indirect sex workers the condom usage rate is lower because they may be getting paid more for sex without condoms. It concluded by explaining how disease prevention campaigns often target direct sex workers, such as those who work in a brothel, and neglect the women in other areas of sex work who are also at risk of contracting STIs. Thus, advocates of the legalization/decriminalization of prostitution believe policies need to be designed to target any sex worker who may be in a vulnerable position.\n\nTrans women who are sex workers are at particular risk for HIV. The seroprevalence of HIV among trans women sex workers internationally has been estimated at 27.3 percent. Furthermore, sex work is prevalent amongst transgender people, particularly young trans women.\n\nLikewise, the World Health Organization report says that criminalization creates an environment where women are less likely to report crimes against them, and accept the possibility of violence such as rape, murder, beatings, and kidnapping as a part of the job description. The report also states that sex workers are even at risk of being harassed, humiliated, and coerced into sex with local law enforcement. Although these are some of the common threats that both decriminalizing/legalizing and criminalizing/decriminalizing prostitution hope to address and reduce, another study concludes that the rates of victimization of prostitutes are not nearly as high as some studies claim.\n\nOn April 11, 2018, the United States Congress passed the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act, commonly known as FOSTA-SESTA, which imposes severe penalties on online platforms that facilitate sex work. The act resulted in the closure of the classified advertising website Backpage and led to the arrest of its founders. The effectiveness of the act has come into question and there have been allegations that it has endangered sex workers and has been ineffective in catching and stopping sex traffickers.\n\nSome sex workers are subjected to psychological manipulation by their pimps using a mix of violence and tenderness. Sex workers in these relationships can develop stockholm syndrome toward their abusers and refuse to testify against them. New York County District Attorney Cyrus Vance, Jr. said that such sex workers \"are often emotionally and economically dependent upon their abusers, and remain silent as their worlds grow smaller and more dangerous\".\n\n\"Information about unionization of sex work and non-governmental organizations: Sex worker:Advocacy\"\n\nIn June 2014, the Government of Canada tried to pass Bill C. 36, which would criminalize the purchase or advertising of sexual services. Organizations like Stella L'amie de Maimie, tried to put pressure to vote against the bill. This is an organization that is fighting for sex workers to have a voice and to have the same rights to health and security as everyone else. They argue that criminalization will have negative impacts, like increased violence, more coercion, and human trafficking. Part of this organization is about free condom distribution and information and tools by and for sex workers.\n\nSonagachi is a project in India that is well known for its HIV prevention. They promote consistent condom use which has resulted in significant decreases in Sexually transmitted infection (STI). This project's focus is on promoting and protecting sex worker's human and labor rights.\n\nThe three tactics that they, and other advocate groups, use for their goal is:\n\nSimilarly to Stella and other organizations like Urban Justice Center, Sonagachi wants to give a voice to sex workers because they know what is best for them and what needs to be improved. The principle of these organizations is that sex work is a job, and it should be respected just like any other job.\n\nAnother viewpoint that some activists take is legalization, which would allow sex workers to undertake their work in improved, organized circumstances (e. g., legal brothels), where standard industry practices (e. g., practicing condom use and regular health check-ups for sex workers) could reduce the transmission of HIV and other STIs. Many sex workers are asking for their work to be decriminalized and legalized to facilitate them seeking help if they are victims of violence. The advocacy groups are the voices to push countries to make a change and end the stigma around sex work.\n\nThe red umbrella symbol was introduced by sex workers in Venice, Italy, in 2001, as part of the 49th Venice Biennale of Art. Sex workers also held a street demonstration, the Red Umbrellas March, in Venice to protest inhumane work conditions and human rights abuses. The International Committee on the Rights of Sex Workers in Europe (ICRSE) adopted the red umbrella as a symbol of resistance to discrimination in 2005.\n\nFor International Women's Day (IWD) in March 2014, sex worker organizations and activists throughout the world used the red umbrella in activities of celebration and protest. For example, flash mob events in which the red umbrella was used were held in Sydney, Australia; London, UK; Bochum, Germany; Thailand; the Netherlands; and Peru.\n\nThe Red Umbrella Project is a non-profit organization based in New York City which advocates on behalf of sex workers and strives to empower them by giving them a voice.\n\nAlthough research about the sex worker movement has been conducted mainly in North American and Western European countries, sex worker-led mobilization has occurred around the world. Such actions seek to influence policies so that sex work is recognized as a legitimate profession, and sufficient rights are provided to sex workers.\n\nScarlet Alliance is the peak body for sex worker organizations in Australia and campaigns for the full decriminalization of sex work, in addition to providing HIV/AIDS outreach and education to sex workers. The country has been credited with better sex worker occupational health and safety, high condom use, and the lowest STI and HIV rates around the world. Furthermore, the now-defunct Prostitutes Collective of Victoria (PCV), founded in Melbourne, Victoria, was the first sex workers’ organization in the world to receive government funding (the organization was renamed \"Resourcing Health Education for the Sex Industry (RhED)\" and became part of the Inner South Community Health Service, but, as of 2013, is a different kind of organization).\n\nSWEAT (Sex Worker Education and Advocacy Task) is an advocacy organization located in Cape Town, South Africa, with the goal of providing education and public health services to sex workers. They also lobby for the decriminalization of sex work, and have recently begun a research program in 2003, with the goal of influencing future policy pertaining to sex workers.\n\nThe Asia Pacific Network of Sex Workers (APNSW) was formed in 1994 to advance the rights of sex workers in Asia, and to provide direct support to Asian sex workers, particularly in relation to human rights issues and HIV support services. Australian-born sex worker activist Andrew Hunter was instrumental in the development of APNSW, as well as a contributor to the growth of the Global Network of Sex Work Projects (NSWP), and his significant history of activism is internationally recognized.\n\nTAMPEP is organization that was founded in 1993. Its aims are to help migrant sex workers in more than twenty-five European nations especially focusing on the public health needs of those workers in Central and Eastern Europe. It also examines the legislative framework that sex work takes place within in order to suggest better policies that would protect sex workers. Some of the outreach methods used to assist sex workers include outreach and education and cultural and peer mediators. Some of the results of research carried out include identification of migrant sex workers and barriers to protection of their rights and the creation of networks between sex workers, organizations, and medical care.\n\nThe Sex Professionals of Canada (SPOC) is a national, voluntary, sex worker-run organization that is funded entirely by donations. Founded in 1983, the organization seeks to decriminalize all forms of sex work in Canada through advocacy and education.\n\nThe Network of Sex Workers in Latin America and the Caribbean (RedTraSex) was organized in 1997 in fifteen countries to fight for the rights of sex workers. So far, the organization has influenced policy in certain countries and has interacted with the president Rafael Correa of Ecuador and Luis Ignacio Lula de Silva in Brazil. One achievement made in Latin America has been the sex worker identification card that has been issued in Bolivia. Furthermore, more sex workers have been included in HIV and health services education.\n\nGlobal Network of Sex Work Projects (NSWP) is an organization that was founded in 1990 by sex workers from different nations at the 2nd International Conference for NGOs working on AIDS in Paris, France. The organization has received financial support from bodies such as the Open Society Foundations, and states that it \"conducts a mix of pro-active and re-active policy advocacy to support human rights and evidence based approaches to female, male, and transgendered sex workers and strengthening sex worker communities\", while \"organising at and international (including regional) level brings local and national level experiences to bear in international debates\".\n\nGlobal Network of Sex Work Projects (NSWP) is largely responsible for the language shift—most notably, the use of the term \"sex worker\" instead of \"prostitute\"—that corresponds with a genuine recognition of sex workers' human rights. The organization's advocacy work has included HIV/AIDS, addressing sex worker discrimination, and participating in research about the profession. NSWP created the publication, \"Research for Sex Work\", for activists, health workers, and NGOs.\n\nDuring the 2012 International AIDS Conference, held in Kolkata, India, sex worker activists from different countries formed the Sex Worker Freedom Festival (SWFF) as an alternative event for sex workers and allies. The week-long festival included activity in the Sonagachi red-light area and represented a protest against the exclusion of sex workers. The event also sought to ensure that the perspectives of sex workers were heard in meetings held in Washington D.C., US. A report, entitled \"Solidarity Is Not A Crime\", was published by NSWP in April 2014 and is described by the organization as \"a snapshot of curated content outlining a significant and historical moment in the Sex Worker Rights Movement\".\n\nThe World Health Organization has released a report focusing on the violence that sex workers face and their vulnerability to HIV/AIDS. It included currently used intervention strategies as well as policy recommendations from the \"WHO Sex Work Toolkit\". Furthermore, another report addressing HIV prevention in middle to low-income countries was released with policy guidelines based off research conducted by the organization which recommended that sex work be decriminalized and called for the elimination of unjust application of non-criminal laws and regulations against sex workers.\n\nUNAIDS has written a report with policy suggestions in Asia and the Pacific that includes case studies to support ways to improve access to health services in Asia and the Pacific. It also addresses some of the factors that hinder sex workers from accessing health services. Furthermore, the UN released a development report titled \"Sex Work and the Law in Asia and the Pacific\" discussing the policies surrounding sex work in Asian and Pacific countries, the effects these laws have on sex workers, and policy recommendations. Some of the policy recommendations for governments included decriminalizing sex work and activities associated with it, providing sex workers with work related protections, and supporting sex workers' access to health services.\n\nThey have also released a 2011-2015 strategy report titled \"Getting to Zero\" that aims for the vision of \"Zero new HIV infections. Zero discrimination. Zero AIDS-related deaths\". The report states that its goals include reducing HIV transmission by half, getting universal access to anti-retroviral therapy for those living with HIV, and reducing the number of countries with punitive laws around HIV transmission, sex work, drug use, or homosexual activity by half all by 2015.\n\nSimilarly, the ILO has released reports suggesting policies that could be put into place that would address the vulnerabilities that sex workers encounter due to the nature of their jobs. Most of the reports deal with ways to decrease the number of workers that contract HIV/AIDS so that the disease is not spread to the general population. It also supports the \"Getting to Zero\" mission, and has found different ways to implement the primary policy initiative,\"Recommendation 200\". This recommendation states that \"Measures be taken in and through the workplace to facilitate access to HIV prevention, treatment, care, and support services for workers, their families, and dependents\". The publication discusses some of the different ways that they have implemented programs that target both sex workers and their clients in different countries worldwide.\n\nAnother report released by the ILO examines sex work in Cambodia by evaluating direct and indirect sex work in various settings and case studies with sex workers in order to conclude with policy suggestions that can be used to decrease the rate of HIV/AIDS transmission among sex workers, their clients, and to the general population also. Some of the key recommendations from this report suggest addressing violence and abuse that is work-related, expanding unions to include indirect sex workers, bringing a workplace perspective to prevention care and health strategies, and coordinating health and safety interventions within the workplace. Under each category more specific initiatives that can be implemented were also included.\n\nThis day began when over 25,000 sex workers gathered in India for a festival organized by a Calcutta-based group called Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee (Unstoppable Women's Synthesis Committee), despite protests pressuring the government to revoke the permit for the parade in 2001.\n\nThis day began June 2, 1975, in Lyon, France, when a group of sex workers met in a church to express their anger about exploitative living conditions and the criminalization they face because of their work.\n\nIn 2009, the Chinese Grassroots Women's Rights Center designated this day to fight the discrimination that faces Chinese sex workers.\n\nIn 2003, Dr. Anne Sprinkle founded the Sex Workers Outreach Project USA and held a vigil on this day for the victims of the Green River Killer, and this day has been commemorated ever since to remember the victims of violent crimes and fight discrimination of crimes related to sex work.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1054224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1054224", "title": "Spoudaiogeloion", "text": "Spoudaiogeloion\n\nSpoudaiogeloion () denotes the mixture of serious and comical elements stylistically. The word comes from the Greek σπουδαῖον \"spoudaion\", \"serious\", and γελοῖον \"geloion\", \"comical\". \n\nThe concept of the word, but not the word itself, first appears in Aristophanes's \"The Frogs\" (405 BC) lines 389–393, in a scene where the Chorus, who are devoted to Demeter, pray for victory: \"καὶ πολλὰ μὲν γελοῖά μ’ εἰπεῖν, πολλὰ δὲ σπουδαῖα, καὶ τἡς σἡς ὲορτἡς ὰείως παίσαυτα και σκώψαυτα υικήσαυτα ταιῦιοθαι.\" (Allow me to say many things in jest and many things in seriousness, and, having sported and lampooned in a manner worthy of your feast, let me, victorious, win the victor's wreath.) The word was first coined in the Old Comedy period.\n\nSpoudaiogeloion was often used in satirical poems or folktales, which were funny, but had a serious, often ethical, theme. The serio-comic style became a rhetorical mainstay of the Cynics, and the Romans gave it its own genre in the form of satire, contributed to most notably by the poets Horace and Juvenal. It was the most common tone of the works made by Menippus and Meleager of Gadara.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42854294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42854294", "title": "T-closeness", "text": "T-closeness\n\n\"t\"-closeness is a further refinement of \"l\"-diversity group based anonymization that is used to preserve privacy in data sets by reducing the granularity of a data representation. This reduction is a trade off that results in some loss of effectiveness of data management or mining algorithms in order to gain some privacy. The \"t\"-closeness model extends the \"l\"-diversity model by treating the values of an attribute distinctly by taking into account the distribution of data values for that attribute.\n\nThis is useful because in real data sets attribute values may be skewed or semantically similar. However, accounting for value distributions may cause difficulty in creating feasible \"l\"-diverse representations. The \"l\"-diversity technique is useful in that it may hinder an attacker leveraging the global distribution of an attribute's data values in order to infer information about sensitive data values. Not every value may exhibit equal sensitivity, for example, a rare positive indicator for a disease may provide more information than a common negative indicator. Because of examples like this, \"l\"-diversity may be difficult and unnecessary to achieve when protecting against attribute disclosure. Alternatively, sensitive information leaks may occur because while \"l\"-diversity requirement ensures “diversity” of sensitive values in each group, it does not recognize that values may be semantically close, for example, an attacker could deduce a stomach disease applies to an individual if a sample containing the individual only listed three different stomach diseases.\n\nGiven the existence of such attacks where sensitive attributes may be inferred based upon the distribution of values for \"l\"-diverse data, the \"t\"-closeness method was created to further \"l\"-diversity by additionally maintaining the distribution of sensitive fields. The original paper by Ninghui Li, Tiancheng Li, and Suresh Venkatasubramanian defines \"t\"-closeness as:\n\nCharu Aggarwal and Philip S. Yu further state in their book on privacy-preserving data miningthat with this definition, threshold \"t\" gives an upper bound on the difference between the distribution of the sensitive attribute values within an anonymized group as compared to the global distribution of values. They also state that for numeric attributes, using \"t\"-closeness anonymization is more effective than many other privacy-preserving data mining methods.\n\n"}
{"id": "37521571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37521571", "title": "The Circle of Reason", "text": "The Circle of Reason\n\nThe Circle of Reason (COR) is a Twin Cities, Minnesota-based international society of theists, atheists, conservatives, and liberals who espouse the social philosophy of pluralistic rationalism (also plurationalism or methodological rationalism).\n\nPluralistic rationalism is described in cultural media as \"commitment to reason[ing], regardless of one's worldview,\" and by the society itself as \"communal commitment to more consistently practice the basic methodological tenets of a reasoning lifestyle (reality's acceptance, assumption's denial, and emotion's mastery) irrespective of our theological, ethical, cultural or political worldviews.\" According to The Circle of Reason, pluralistic rationalism is practiced through encouraging not a particular worldview, but rather factualism, skepticism, and moderationism; and furthermore through discouraging their opposing practices of denialism, dogmatism, and emotionalism -- or \"denials of reality, unquestioned assumptions (potentially false realities), and emotive arguments or actions (dissociation from reality).\" Plurationalist practices include discouraging the verbal, printed or televised use of insults (which the group asserts is immoral because, as \"ad hominem\" argumentation, it seeks to \"irrationally persuade by evoking emotionality.\") Because plurationalists hold that \"as a sapient being one's best tool to survive is one's ability to reason,\" they claim people's basic universalized moral imperative must then be \"to consistently allow, and encourage, others to reason.\" \n\nReflecting the plurationalist society's call to \"more consistently use everyday reasoning regardless of our worldviews,\" its institutional practices have included organizing the United States' first reported \"theist + atheist\" dialogue group, \"Secular Bible Study,\" for reasoning discussion on the historical context, societal impact and cultural relevance of the Bible and religion, and \"Ancient Greek Peripatetic\"-style nature walks combined with \"transcultural, transbelief reasoning dialogue\" on current social issues; organizing and moderating \"Assumptions on the [Minnesota Same-Sex] Marriage Amendment: A Reasoning Forum\" for theists, atheists, conservatives & liberals; defending a Catholic legislator shunned by his archdiocese for refusing to defund reproductive health clinics; presenting an address on plurationalism, \"Be Sane — Be VERY Sane!\" to the \"Rally to Restore Sanity Minnesota\" at the State Capitol; and successfully lobbying the state capital city's Council of Churches to become the first local council of religions in the United States to change the name of its religious \"interfaith\" dialogue group to \"interbelief,\" to better welcome atheists and secular humanists with no religious faith but with philosophical or ethical beliefs.\n\nThe Pluralism Project at Harvard University has described the Circle of Reason as a \"promising practice.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3240916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3240916", "title": "Unspoken rule", "text": "Unspoken rule\n\nUnspoken rules are behavioral constraints imposed in organizations or societies that are not voiced or written down. They usually exist in unspoken and unwritten format because they form a part of the logical argument or course of action implied by tacit assumptions. Examples involving unspoken rules include unwritten and unofficial organizational hierarchies, organizational culture, and acceptable behavioral norms governing interactions between organizational members.\n\nFor example, the captain of a ship is always expected to be the last to evacuate it in a disaster. Or, as Vince Waldron wrote, \"A pet, once named, instantly becomes an inseparable member of the family.\"\n\nIn the workplace, some unspoken rules can have a significant impact on one’s job satisfaction, advancement opportunities, and career trajectory.\n\nIn sports, Scottish football club, Rangers until 1989 had an unwritten rule of not signing any player who was openly Catholic. Yorkshire County Cricket Club also historically had an unwritten rule that cricketers could only play for them if they were born within the historical county boundaries of Yorkshire.\n\n"}
{"id": "53142910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53142910", "title": "Washington v. Trump", "text": "Washington v. Trump\n\nState of Washington and State of Minnesota v. Trump, 847 F.3d 1151 (9th Cir. 2017), was a lawsuit that challenged the lawfulness and constitutionality of Executive Order 13769, an executive order signed by U.S. President Donald Trump.\n\nA few days after the order was signed, the state of Washington filed suit alleging that the executive order is unconstitutional because it, among other reasons, violates the Fifth Amendment guarantee of equal protection under the law because it was intended to harm and discriminate against their States' residents based upon their national origin or religion, and therefore it also violates the Establishment Clause because it was meant to \"disfavor Islam and give preference to Christianity\". The federal government argued that the Constitution grants the President of the United States \"unreviewable authority\" over immigration matters and that the non-citizens the executive order affects do not have due process rights.\n\nOn February 3, Judge James Robart issued a nationwide temporary restraining order which forbade the federal government from enforcing certain provisions of the order. The federal government, in turn, filed an appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. That court, however, denied the government's request to stay the temporary restraining order as the federal government failed to show it was likely to succeed at trial, thereby maintaining the prohibition on the government in enforcing the executive order.\n\nDuring his initial election campaign, Trump had proposed a temporary, conditional, and \"total and complete\" ban on Muslims entering the United States. His proposal was met by opposition by U.S. politicians. Mike Pence and James Mattis were among those who opposed the proposal. On June 12, in reference to the 2016 Orlando nightclub shooting that occurred on the same date, Trump, via Twitter, renewed his call for a Muslim immigration ban. On June 13, Trump proposed to suspend immigration from \"areas of the world\" with a history of terrorism, a change from his previous proposal to suspend Muslim immigration to the U.S; the campaign did not announce the details of the plan at the time, but Jeff Sessions, an advisor to Trump campaign on immigration, said the proposal was a statement of purpose to be supplied with details in subsequent months. In a speech on August 31, 2016, Trump vowed to \"suspend the issuance of visas\" to \"places like Syria and Libya.\" Donald Trump was elected president of the United States and inaugurated on January 20, 2017. A week later on January 27, he signed the executive order. Affected travelers immediately began filing legal challenges to the order through habeas corpus petitions and injunctive relief.\n\nOn January 30, 2017, the State of Washington — represented by Washington State Attorney General Bob Ferguson, with the support of Washington Governor Jay Inslee—filed a civil action in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, against Trump and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The state's suit asked the court for declaratory relief (a declaration that the executive order violates the Constitution) and injunctive relief (to block enforcement of the executive order). The state also filed a motion for a temporary restraining order, seeking an immediate halt to the executive order's implementation. On February 1, 2017, an amended complaint was filed adding the State of Minnesota as a plaintiff alongside Washington.\n\nThe State of Washington alleged nine causes of action in its original complaint. A tenth cause of action was added in the amended complaint filed by Washington and Minnesota.\n\nThe Government argued that the federal courts do not have the authority to review executive actions regarding immigration because the Constitution gives the President of the United States \"unreviewable authority\" over immigration matters.\n\nOn February 3, 2017, Judge James Robart issued a temporary restraining order enjoining the enforcement of the executive order nationwide, and entered a temporary ban regarding immigration restrictions, then directed the parties to the action to file any briefs in support of a preliminary injunction by February 6, 2017. White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said in a statement \"At the earliest possible time, the Department of Justice intends to file an emergency stay of this outrageous order and defend the executive order of the President, which we believe is lawful and appropriate. The President's order is intended to protect the homeland and he has the constitutional authority and responsibility to protect the American people.\" Spicer immediately issued an updated statement removing the word 'outrageous'.\n\nDuring the proceedings, Judge Robart asked the federal government lawyer how many arrests of foreign nationals from the listed countries had occurred since 9/11. No numbers were offered by the defense and the judge incorrectly answered his own question by stating that none had occurred.\n\nTrump responded by tweeting, \"The opinion of this so-called judge, which essentially takes law-enforcement away from our country, is ridiculous and will be overturned!\" Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said that the President showed \"a disdain for an independent judiciary that doesn't always bend to his wishes and a continued lack of respect for the Constitution, making it more important that the Supreme Court serve as an independent check on the administration. With each action testing the Constitution, and each personal attack on a judge, President Trump raises the bar even higher for Judge Gorsuch's nomination to serve on the Supreme Court. His ability to be an independent check will be front and center throughout the confirmation process.\"\n\nOn February 13, Judge Robart issued a preliminary injunction on the executive order. The District Court stated in its order that since the 9th Circuit Court had ruled the TRO would be treated as a preliminary injunction, the Court need not continue briefing on the request for preliminary injunction, but instead directed the parties to commence discovery proceedings, stating in his order the matters bound up in the TRO/injunction were on appeal to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals.\n\nOn March 13, 2017 the Washington State Attorney General filed a second amended complaint addressing executive order 13780 and moved the court to enjoin enforcement of the order under the current preliminary injunction previously issued which barred enforcement of executive order 13769 by filing a motion for emergency enforcement of the preliminary injunction. The State of Washington in their second amended complaint asked the Court to Declare that Sections 3(c), 5(a)–(c), and 5(e) of the First Executive Order 13769 are unauthorized by and contrary to the Constitution and laws of the United States, and that the United States should be enjoined from implementing or enforcing Sections 3(c), 5(a)–(c), and 5(e) of the First Executive Order, including at all United States borders, ports of entry, and in the issuance of visas, pending further orders from this Court.\nThe State of Washington also asked the Court to declare that Sections 2(c) and 6(a) of the Second Executive Order 13780 are\nunauthorized by and contrary to the Constitution and laws of the United States, and that the United States should also be enjoined from implementing or enforcing Sections 2(c) and 6(a) of the Second Executive Order 13780, including at all United States borders, ports of entry, and in the issuance of visas, and enjoin the United States from implementing or enforcing Section 5(d) of the First Executive Order 13769 and enjoin the United States from implementing or enforcing Section 6(b) of the Second Executive Order 13780. The Court subsequently issued an order directing the United States to file a response to the emergency motion to enforce the preliminary injunction by March 14, 2017.\n\nOn February 4, 2017, the United States filed an emergency motion in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, seeking a stay of the District Court's temporary restraining order. In its request, the federal government contended that the temporary restraining order should be stayed because the judicial branch lacks the authority to review presidential actions over immigration. The 9th Circuit denied the request for an immediate stay and scheduled oral arguments.\n\nA three-judge motions panel of the Ninth Circuit heard oral argument on the federal government's motion for a stay on February 7. The panel consisted of Judges William Canby, Richard Clifton, and Michelle Friedland. The arguments were live streamed as is typical for the 9th Circuit but rare in other federal courts. Washington Solicitor General Noah Purcell represented the plaintiff-appellee states of Washington and Minnesota. Lawyers August Flentje and Edwin Kneedler represented the U.S. government to defend the order, replacing Acting Associate Attorney General Chad Readler and Acting Solicitor General Noel Francisco, whom the Trump administration removed from that role just hours before the February 7 hearing.\n\nOn February 5, a group of 97 companies, mostly from the tech industry, filed an amicus brief opposing the executive order. Companies that signed onto the amicus included Airbnb, Uber, Twitter, Google, Facebook, Apple, Microsoft, Dropbox, eBay, GoPro, Lyft, Spotify, Yelp and Levi Strauss & Co. Additional amicus briefs were filed by the Fred T. Korematsu Center for Law and Equality at Seattle University, the ACLU, and a group of law professors and law school clinicians.\n\nOn the same day, the State of Hawaii filed a motion to intervene in the case on the side of Minnesota and Washington. The motion, prepared by Hawaii Attorney General Doug Chin, former acting Solicitor General Neal Katyal, and others, states that the executive order halted tourism in Hawaii \"from the banned countries, and chilled tourism from many more, threatening one of the pillars of the state's economy. It prevented a number of Hawaii's residents from traveling abroad. It required Hawaii to participate in discrimination against members of the Muslim faith.\" However, the court denied the motion to intervene. Hawaii has filed its own suit, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Hawaii.\n\nOn February 6, a group of former top U.S. foreign policy, national security and intelligence officials filed a joint declaration in support of Washington and Minnesota. The group stated that the executive order \"cannot be justified on national security or foreign policy grounds\"; was \"ill-conceived, poorly implemented and ill-explained\"; and injures U.S. interests. Madeleine Albright, Avril Haines, Michael Hayden, John Kerry, John E. McLaughlin, Lisa Monaco, Michael Morell, Janet Napolitano, Leon Panetta, and Susan Rice signed the declaration.\n\nOn the same day, amicus briefs in support of the challenge were filed by Americans United for Separation of Church and State and the Southern Poverty Law Center; HIAS; the Anti-Defamation League; the Service Employees International Union (SEIU); and a group of four constitutional scholars (Kristin Collins, Judith Resnik, Stephen I. Vladeck, and Burt Neuborne).\n\nAlso on February 6, an amicus brief in support of the challenge was filed by 15 states and the District of Columbia, represented by their respective attorneys general. The states signing on to the brief were New York, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Mexico, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, and Virginia. This followed the release of a joint statement by the attorneys general calling the executive order \"unconstitutional, un-American and unlawful.\"\n\nOn February 7, New Hampshire and North Carolina as represented by their respective attorneys general joined the amicus brief in support of the challenge. This brings the total states in support of the challenge to 17 in addition to the District of Columbia. Also on February 7, 45 additional companies and 14 startups also joined the tech industry amicus brief in support of the challenge. Notable companies include Adobe, Akamai, GoDaddy, HP Inc, SpaceX, and Tesla. This brings the total number of companies in support of the challenge to 156.\n\nOn February 9, the three-judge panel of the Ninth Circuit, in a per curiam decision, unanimously denied the request for a stay of the temporary restraining order. The court, quoting the Supreme Court case \"Nken v. Holder\", made clear that \"a stay is not a matter of right, even if irreparable injury might otherwise result.\" Because of this, the court needed to answer four questions under \"Nken\", with the first two being most important: \"(1) whether the stay applicant has made a strong showing that he is likely to succeed on the merits; (2) whether the applicant will be irreparably injured absent a stay; (3) whether issuance of the stay will substantially injure the other parties interested in the proceedings; and (4) where the public interest lies.\" The court denied the stay as they found the federal government failed to prove the first two questions, and that the last two tip in favor of the plaintiffs, Washington and Minnesota.\n\nThe court ruled that the federal government is unlikely to succeed on the merits against Washington's due process claim. Though the court discussed Washington State's contention that the executive order violates the First Amendment prohibition on religious discrimination, they withheld ruling on that claim, as being unlikely to succeed against a due process claim is sufficient to fail the first question. The federal government did not provide evidence or argument as to why the executive order needed to be enacted immediately and thus a stay required. In showing the federal government was unlikely to succeed on the merits against a due process claim, the court argued that it showed the States and their citizens would be irreparably harmed by a stay as \"the deprivation of constitutional rights 'unquestionably constitutes irreparable injury.'\" The court found that \"aspects of the public interest favor both sides\", but that in light of the prior three questions, \"these competing public inteterests do not justify a stay.\"\n\nThe day after the denial of stay, the 9th Circuit ordered the parties to submit supplemental briefs on whether the motion should be reheard \"en banc\". The order was issued at the request of an unidentified judge of the Ninth Circuit to be voted on by all 25 active judges (though, if successful, a rehearing would be by a panel of 11 judges). The parties were instructed to submit their briefs by February 16. On February 16, the Trump administration asked to postpone further proceedings because they expected to replace executive order with a new one the following week. In response, the 9th Circuit issued an order on the same day staying the \"en banc\" review of its previous ruling.\n\nOn March 6, 2017, President Trump issued Executive Order 13780, which revoked and replaced Executive Order 13769 (at issue in this appeal). Two days later, on March 8, 2017, the government moved to dismiss the appeal as moot, which the Court granted the same day.\n\nOn March 15, 2017, the Ninth Circuit denied rehearing \"en banc\". Judge Stephen Reinhardt added a concurrence, alone, where he wrote \"I am proud to be a part of this court and a judicial system that is independent and courageous\".\n\nJudge Jay Bybee, joined by Judges Alex Kozinski, Consuelo María Callahan, Carlos Bea, and Sandra Segal Ikuta dissented from denial of reconsideration, writing that the court had committed \"manifest error\".\n\nOn March 17, Judge Kozinski, joined by the other dissenters, added another opinion dissenting from denial of reconsideration. Judge Bea, joined by the other dissenters also added an opinion dissenting from the denial of rehearing. Judge Marsha S. Berzon, however, alone, added a concurrence to the denial of reconsideration where he criticized the dissenters for the procedural irregularity of attempting to reconsider a case without a request by either party and after the appeal had been dismissed.\n\nOn March 17, 2017, Judge Robart refused to grant an additional restraining order after the President's new Executive Order 13780 was blocked by U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson in Honolulu, Hawaii.\nIn a \"per curiam\" decision, on June 26, 2017, the United States Supreme Court reinstated key provisions narrowed to apply only to foreign nationals who have no \"credible claim of a bona fide relationship with a person or entity in the United States\" and set case for final consideration in October. The court also granted certiorari and set oral arguments for the fall term.\nIn an unsigned statement the Supreme Court stated that denying entry to foreign nationals abroad who have no connection to the United States \"does not burden any American party by reason of that party's relationship with the foreign national.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2334511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2334511", "title": "What Is Life?", "text": "What Is Life?\n\nWhat Is Life? The Physical Aspect of the Living Cell is a 1944 science book written for the lay reader by physicist Erwin Schrödinger. The book was based on a course of public lectures delivered by Schrödinger in February 1943, under the auspices of the Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies at Trinity College, Dublin. The lectures attracted an audience of about 400, who were warned \"that the subject-matter was a difficult one and that the lectures could not be termed popular, even though the physicist’s most dreaded weapon, mathematical deduction, would hardly be utilized.\" Schrödinger's lecture focused on one important question: \"how can the events in space and time which take place within the spatial boundary of a living organism be accounted for by physics and chemistry?\"\n\nIn the book, Schrödinger introduced the idea of an \"aperiodic crystal\" that contained genetic information in its configuration of covalent chemical bonds. In the 1950s, this idea stimulated enthusiasm for discovering the genetic molecule. Although the existence of some form of hereditary information had been hypothesized since 1869, its role in reproduction and its helical shape were still unknown at the time of Schrödinger's lecture. In retrospect, Schrödinger's aperiodic crystal can be viewed as a well-reasoned theoretical prediction of what biologists should have been looking for during their search for genetic material. Both James D. Watson, and Francis Crick, who jointly proposed the double helix structure of DNA based on X-ray diffraction experiments by Rosalind Franklin, credited Schrödinger's book with presenting an early theoretical description of how the storage of genetic information would work, and each independently acknowledged the book as a source of inspiration for their initial researches.\n\nThe book is based on lectures delivered under the auspices of the Institute at Trinity College, Dublin, in February 1943 and published in 1944. At that time DNA was not yet accepted as the carrier of hereditary information, which only was the case after the Hershey–Chase experiment of 1952. One of the most successful branches of physics at this time was statistical physics, and quantum mechanics, a theory which is also very statistical in its nature. Schrödinger himself is one of the founding fathers of quantum mechanics.\n\nMax Delbrück's thinking about the physical basis of life was an important influence on Schrödinger. However, long before the publication of \"What is Life?\", geneticist and 1946 Nobel-prize winner H. J. Muller had in his 1922 article \"Variation due to Change in the Individual Gene\" already laid out all the basic properties of the \"heredity molecule\" (then not yet known to be DNA) that Schrödinger was to re-derive in 1944 \"from first principles\" in \"What is Life?\" (including the \"aperiodicity\" of the molecule), properties which Muller specified and refined additionally in his 1929 article \"The Gene As The Basis of Life\" and during the 1930s. Moreover, H. J. Muller himself wrote in a 1960 letter to a journalist regarding \"What Is Life?\" that whatever the book got right about the \"hereditary molecule\" had already been published before 1944 and that Schrödinger's were only the wrong speculations; Muller also named two famous geneticists (including Delbrück) who knew every relevant pre-1944 publication and had been in contact with Schrödinger before 1944. But DNA as the molecule of heredity became topical only after Oswald Avery's most important bacterial-transformation experiments in 1944. Before these experiments, proteins were considered the most likely candidates.\n\nIn chapter I, Schrödinger explains that most physical laws on a large scale are due to chaos on a small scale. He calls this principle \"order-from-disorder.\" As an example he mentions diffusion, which can be modeled as a highly ordered process, but which is caused by random movement of atoms or molecules. If the number of atoms is reduced, the behaviour of a system becomes more and more random. He states that life greatly depends on order and that a naïve physicist may assume that the master code of a living organism has to consist of a large number of atoms.\n\nIn chapter II and III, he summarizes what was known at this time about the hereditary mechanism. Most importantly, he elaborates the important role mutations play in evolution. He concludes that the carrier of hereditary information has to be both small in size and permanent in time, contradicting the naïve physicist's expectation. This contradiction cannot be resolved by classical physics.\n\nIn chapter IV, Schrödinger presents molecules, which are indeed stable even if they consist of only a few atoms, as the solution. Even though molecules were known before, their stability could not be explained by classical physics, but is due to the discrete nature of quantum mechanics. Furthermore, mutations are directly linked to quantum leaps.\n\nHe continues to explain, in chapter V, that true solids, which are also permanent, are crystals. The stability of molecules and crystals is due to the same principles and a molecule might be called \"the germ of a solid.\" On the other hand, an amorphous solid, without crystalline structure, should be regarded as a liquid with a very high viscosity. Schrödinger believes the heredity material to be a molecule, which unlike a crystal does not repeat itself. He calls this an aperiodic crystal. Its aperiodic nature allows it to encode an almost infinite number of possibilities with a small number of atoms. He finally compares this picture with the known facts and finds it in accordance with them.\n\nIn chapter VI Schrödinger states:\n\nHe knows that this statement is open to misconception and tries to clarify it. The main principle involved with \"order-from-disorder\" is the second law of thermodynamics, according to which entropy only increases in a closed system (such as the universe). Schrödinger explains that living matter evades the decay to thermodynamical equilibrium by homeostatically maintaining negative entropy (today this quantity is called information) in an open system.\n\nIn chapter VII, he maintains that \"order-from-order\" is not absolutely new to physics; in fact, it is even simpler and more plausible. But nature follows \"order-from-disorder\", with some exceptions as the movement of the celestial bodies and the behaviour of mechanical devices such as clocks. But even those are influenced by thermal and frictional forces. The degree to which a system functions mechanically or statistically depends on the temperature. If heated, a clock ceases to function, because it melts. Conversely, if the temperature approaches absolute zero, any system behaves more and more mechanically. Some systems approach this mechanical behaviour rather fast with room temperature already being practically equivalent to absolute zero.\n\nSchrödinger concludes this chapter and the book with philosophical speculations on determinism, free will, and the mystery of human consciousness. He attempts to \"see whether we cannot draw the correct non-contradictory conclusion from the following two premises: (1) My body functions as a pure mechanism according to Laws of Nature; and (2) Yet I know, by incontrovertible direct experience, that I am directing its motions, of which I foresee the effects, that may be fateful and all-important, in which case I feel and take full responsibility for them. The only possible inference from these two facts is, I think, that I – I in the widest meaning of the word, that is to say, every conscious mind that has ever said or felt 'I' – am the person, if any, who controls the 'motion of the atoms' according to the Laws of Nature\". Schrödinger then states that this insight is not new and that Upanishads considered this insight of \"ATHMAN = BRAHMAN\" to \"represent quintessence of deepest insights into the happenings of the world. Schrödinger rejects the idea that the source of consciousness should perish with the body because he finds the idea \"distasteful\". He also rejects the idea that there are multiple immortal souls that can exist without the body because he believes that consciousness is nevertheless highly dependent on the body. Schrödinger writes that, to reconcile the two premises,The only possible alternative is simply to keep to the immediate experience that consciousness is a singular of which the plural is unknown; that there is only one thing and that what seems to be a plurality is merely a series of different aspects of this one thing…\n\nAny intuitions that consciousness is plural, he says, are illusions. Schrödinger is sympathetic to the Hindu concept of Brahman, by which each individual's consciousness is only a manifestation of a unitary consciousness pervading the universe — which corresponds to the Hindu concept of God. Schrödinger concludes that \"...'I' am the person, if any, who controls the 'motion of the atoms' according to the Laws of Nature.\" However, he also qualifies the conclusion as \"necessarily subjective\" in its \"philosophical implications\". In the final paragraph, he points out that what is meant by \"I\" is not the collection of experienced events but \"namely the canvas upon which they are collected.\" If a hypnotist succeeds in blotting out all earlier reminiscences, he writes, there would be no loss of personal existence — \"Nor will there ever be.\"\n\nIn a world governed by the second law of thermodynamics, all isolated systems are expected to approach a state of maximum disorder. Since life approaches and maintains a highly ordered state, some argue that this seems to violate the aforementioned second law, implying that there is a paradox. However, since the biosphere is not an isolated system, there is no paradox. The increase of order inside an organism is more than paid for by an increase in disorder outside this organism by the loss of heat into the environment. By this mechanism, the second law is obeyed, and life maintains a highly ordered state, which it sustains by causing a net increase in disorder in the Universe. In order to increase the complexity on Earth—as life does—free energy is needed and in this case is provided by the Sun.\n\n\n\n"}
