{"id": "41234993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41234993", "title": "88 Kearny Street", "text": "88 Kearny Street\n\n88 Kearny Street is a class-A office high-rise on Kearny Street at the southeast intersection with Post Street in the Financial District of San Francisco, California. The , 22-story tower was designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, and its construction was completed in 1986.\n\nThe French Consulate General is housed in the building: Suite 600\n\n"}
{"id": "5401990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5401990", "title": "Ahmedabad Management Association", "text": "Ahmedabad Management Association\n\nThe Ahmedabad Management Association or AMA is in the Vastrapur region of Ahmedabad in the state of Gujarat, India. It is an approved Institution for management training by the Government of Gujarat. It is a recognized scientific and industrial research organization under Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, Government of India. The association is tax exempt under section 80 G and 35 (1) (iii) of IT Act. The scientist Vikram Sarabhai was the founder and first president of AMA.\n\nThe institution specializes in offering summer and short term courses, and has a library with resources like audio, video, internet, online books search etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50366339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50366339", "title": "Alan Knott-Craig (Senior)", "text": "Alan Knott-Craig (Senior)\n\nAlan Knott-Craig (born 8 May 1952, Oudtshoorn, South Africa) is a retired South African former CEO of Vodacom (1996 - 2008) and Cell C (2012 - 2014).\n\nKnott-Craig was born on 8 May 1952, Oudtshoorn, South Africa, where he spent his formative years. In 1974 he graduated in a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Cape Town. Prior to 1993 he was Senior General Manager of Mobile Communications at Telkom SA, before he moved to Vodacom. In 1996 he was appointed CEO of Vodacom. He held that position until he stepped down in 2008. He also served as an Independent Non-Executive Director of Murray & Roberts Holdings. He was appointed to the Murray & Roberts Board in 2008. He served as chairman of the health, safety and environment committee until 2011. In 2012 he joined Cell C as its CEO until he stepped down in 2014 due to ill health.\n\nIn 2008, former employee Nkosana Makate took Vodacom to court, claiming that the profitable Please Call Me message service was originally his invention and demanding compensation. Eight years later, Makate eventually won his case in the Constitutional Court (the highest court in South Africa). Makate will now enter negotiations with Vodacom for a 15% cut of the R70 billion he claims 'Please Call Me' has earned for Vodacom since its inception.\n\nA 2014 judgement in the South Gauteng High Court supported Makate's claim to having originated Please Call Me. The court heard that, in November 2000, Makate had shared his idea (initially termed the \"buzz\" idea) with Philip Geissler, then board member and director of product development and management at Vodacom. Geissler had agreed to give Makate a cut should the Please Call Me innovation prove a success. Makate's witnesses presented emails sent by Geissler and an article in Vodacom's \"Talk Time\" internal newsletter which acknowledged and praised Makate for his idea and his contribution to the product.\n\nThe court also rejected former CEO Allan Knott-Craig's lie that he had come up with the idea. Knott-Craig had published the lie in his autobiography, and later lied in court, claiming he had the idea while watching two security guards trying to communicate on phones without airtime. Yet the High Court found against Makate's claim for compensation, holding Vodacom's argument that Geissler had not had the authority to promise Makate such compensation and that the debt would have expired (in legal terms, been prescribed) within three years.\n\nMakate took the case on appeal, and then took it to the Constitutional Court. In April 2016 Justice Chris Jafta found in Makate's favour and against Vodacom, overturning both judgements and finding that Geissler had had the authority to promise compensation, and that Makate's case was not based on an unpaid debt. In his judgement, Justice Chris Jafta had harsh words for Knott-Craig and Geissler. Among other things he said : “In not compensating the applicant [Makate]… Vodacom associated itself with the dishonourable conduct of its former CEO, Mr Knott-Craig and his colleague, Mr Geissler. This leaves a sour taste in the mouth. It is not the kind of conduct to be expected from an ethical corporate entity,”\n"}
{"id": "56708914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56708914", "title": "Antonia Albert", "text": "Antonia Albert\n\nAntonia Albert is an Austrian business economist and entrepreneur. In 2015, she co-founded the startup Careship in Berlin, Germany as an online marketplace for in-home senior care. Albert helped raise $4 million in investor funding in 2017, and an additional $6 million in 2018. Careship has expanded to the state of North Rhine-Westphalia as well as the cities of Hamburg, Dusseldorf and Frankfurt.\n\nWhen Albert's grandmother became sick in 2014, her family had great difficulty finding a suitable caregiver. In response, she co-founded the startup Careship with her brother Nikolaus Albert to create a virtual marketplace for in-home senior care. Careship uses an online “matchmaking algorithm” to connect families needing senior care with qualified self-employed caregivers. Caregivers can help with common tasks such as cooking, shopping and cleaning. On the platform, caregivers set their own price and Careship handles billing and coordinating insurance payments.\n\nAlbert and her brother raised $4 million in investor funding for Careship in 2017, and an additional $6 million in 2018. The marketplace was initially only offered in Berlin but has expanded to the state of North Rhine-Westphalia as well as the cities of Hamburg, Dusseldorf and Frankfurt. They would like to expand into Austria in 2018.\n\nThe business model used by Careship and similar services is controversial. Product testing organization Stiftung Warentest examined cleaning services in October 2014 and came to the conclusion that the service matched the online promise only in four out of ten cases.\n\nAlbert is from Vienna, Austria. She studied business administration in the Netherlands and Switzerland, receiving a BSc in International Business Administration in 2012 and a MSc in Strategic Management in 2013. Before co-founding Careship with her brother, she worked as a business economist for internet holding company Rocket Internet. Antonia was voted one of the 100 most Inspiring Women 2015 by BBC and was included on the 2018 Forbes \"30 Under 30\" list.\n"}
{"id": "22186508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22186508", "title": "Arthur Pendleton Mason", "text": "Arthur Pendleton Mason\n\nArthur \"Pen\" Pendleton Mason (11 December 1835–22 April 1893) was a lieutenant colonel in the Confederate States Army serving during the American Civil War. Mason was a scion of the prominent Mason political family of Virginia.\n\nMason was born on 11 December 1835 near Alexandria, Virginia in Fairfax County. He was the ninth and youngest child of Thomson Francis Mason (1785–21 December 1838) and his wife Elizabeth \"Betsey\" Clapham Price (1802–21 December 1873).\n\nMason earned his law degree from the University of Virginia. Following law school, Mason was a planter and practiced law in Alexandria and Richmond.\n\nMason's father died on 21 December 1838 in Alexandria at the age of 53. Mason inherited his father's Colross estate in Alexandria. His mother transferred ownership of Huntley on 7 November 1859 to Mason and his brother Dr. John \"Frank\" Francis Mason.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, Mason joined the 2nd Regiment Mississippi Cavalry in either late 1860 or early 1861. On 5 June 1861, Mason transferred to the 6th Regiment of Brigadier General Thomas C. Hindman's brigade of Arkansas Volunteers. On 11 December 1861, Mason was ordered to report to General Joseph E. Johnston at Manassas. His brother-in-law, Thomas Grimke Rhett, was Johnston's chief of staff at the time. Mason was Johnston's assistant adjutant general during most of the war. Mason served as a member of Johnston's staff until Johnston was wounded at the Battle of Seven Pines in 1862. Mason then served under Robert E. Lee until 1863 when he rejoined Johnston's during the Vicksburg Campaign. Following Johnston's removal from the command of the Army of Tennessee during the Atlanta Campaign, Mason joined the staff of John Bell Hood. Mason was appointed colonel in the 2nd Mississippi Cavalry on 2 January 1864, but President Jefferson Davis declined to nominate him and his appointment was later voided. Upon Hood's defeat at Nashville in December 1864, Mason joined Lieutenant General Richard Taylor's staff before rejoining Johnston in North Carolina at the end of the war.\n\nMason married Mary Ellen Campbell, daughter of Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, John Archibald Campbell. The couple had four children, with only one surviving to adulthood:\n\n\nFollowing the war, Mason relocated to New Orleans, Louisiana where he became a merchant.\n\nMason died on 22 April 1893 in Morris Park, The Bronx, New York at age 57. Mason was interred in Green Mount Cemetery in Baltimore, Maryland.\n"}
{"id": "16195144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16195144", "title": "Bank Discount Tower", "text": "Bank Discount Tower\n\nThe Bank Discount Tower is a skyscraper located on Yehuda HaLevi Street 23 corner with Herzl Street in Tel Aviv, Israel. It is the headquarters of the Israel Discount Bank.\n\nCompleted in 2006, three years after construction began in 2003, the tower has 30 floors, 7 basement floors, and is 105 meters in height. Construction of the tower took place in two stages, with construction of the first 13 floors ending in 2006, and the upper 17 floors being constructed after the tower was partly occupied.\n\nThe Tel Aviv Municipality granted a building permit on condition that the bank preserve the historic Schiff House next door, which was restored and reopened as a museum of banking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58095204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58095204", "title": "Bundesverband Großhandel, Außenhandel, Dienstleistungen", "text": "Bundesverband Großhandel, Außenhandel, Dienstleistungen\n\nThe Bundesverband Großhandel, Außenhandel, Dienstleistungen e.V. (BGA), Federal Association of Wholesale, Foreign Trade, Services e.V. is a German umbrella organization of associations of these branches of industry based in Berlin. It was founded on March 29, 1949 by representatives of 40 associations as a general association of German wholesale and foreign trade. Today, the organization has almost 70 member associations and represents around 125,000 German companies with a sales volume of around EUR 1,000 billions.\n\nIt represents the interests of the German wholesale, foreign trade, and services sectors. The BGA supports its members in matters of professional, economic, and social policy. To this end, as with all lobbying associations, contacts with representatives of the Federal Government and the German Bundestag, as well as the Bundesrat, are indispensable.\n\nThe presidium is currently headed by its president Holger Bingmann and the association is managed by its CEO Gerhard Handke\n\n"}
{"id": "47418825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47418825", "title": "Capital impairment", "text": "Capital impairment\n\nCapital impairment is the case when the company lost its asset, so the asset is lower than the stock of a company. One way to avoid capital impairment is reduction of capital without any compensation.\n\n"}
{"id": "40304829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40304829", "title": "Carl Degenkolb", "text": "Carl Degenkolb\n\nCarl Degenkolb (1796-1862) was a German industrialist, who is generally understood to have pioneered the first codetermination plans in his factories, as well as participating in drafting the first codetermination law during the failed 1848 Revolutions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20802883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20802883", "title": "Carl Kotchian", "text": "Carl Kotchian\n\nArchibald Carlisle Kotchian (July 17, 1914 – December 14, 2008), known as Carl or A.C., was an American business executive who served as the president of Lockheed Corporation. His admission of paying millions of dollars in bribes to foreign government officials led to the jailing of Japan's prime minister and political upheaval in several countries in the 1970s.\n\nKotchian was born on July 17, 1914 in Kermit, Divide County, North Dakota and grew up in Long Beach, California, attending Long Beach Junior College (now known as Long Beach City College). He later attended Stanford University, where he received an undergraduate degree and a Master of Business Administration.\n\nKotchian, a Certified Public Accountant worked for Price Waterhouse in Los Angeles. He was hired in 1941 by Vega Airplane Company, a subsidiary of Lockheed Aircraft. At Lockheed, he supervised the firm's surge in aircraft production during World War II. He established the firm's manufacturing site in Marietta, Georgia, which became the primary production location for the C-130 Hercules cargo plane and later for the F-22 Raptor fighter. He became president of Lockheed in 1967, a period in which the firm produced the C-5 Galaxy cargo plane and the SR-71 Blackbird spy plane for the U.S. military and the L-1011 TriStar jet for the commercial market.\n\nDevelopment of the L-1011 began in the late 1960s, during Kotchian's presidency, and was started without any firm orders. In 1971, the United States government provided a $250 million loan to help bail the firm out of mounting development costs for military programs and for the L-1011. In testimony before the United States Senate in 1976, Kotchian described how he had met with government officials in Japan and made payoff of 500 million yen, the equivalent of US$1.7 million, part of a total of US$12 million in payments to Japanese politicians and businessmen that led to the sale of 21 L-1011 aircraft by Lockheed, then worth US$430 million. Prime Minister of Japan Kakuei Tanaka was ultimately convicted of accepting a bribe, one of many notable Japanese politicians who were involved in the scandal.\n\nIn his Senate testimony, Kotchian disclosed that Lockheed paid $1.1 million in the early 1960s to a Dutch official later identified as Prince Bernhard, husband of Queen Juliana of the Netherlands in his role as inspector general of the Military of the Netherlands. After the revelations, the prince stepped down from his military position.\n\nIn a 1977 profile in \"The New York Times\", Kotchian reflected his bitterness at the Lockheed directors who ousted hims as chief operating officer and vice chairman in March 1976 based on his $38 million of what the board called \"questionable payments\". Kotchian described that he felt that\n\nLockheed has become the scapegoat for 300 companies that the S.E.C. said were doing the same thing, and Haughton and I are the scapegoats for the scapegoat... Some call it gratuities. Some call them questionable payments. Some call it extortion. Some call it grease. Some call it bribery. I look at these payments as necessary to sell a product. I never felt I was doing anything wrong.\n\nA resident of Palo Alto, California, Kotchian died at age 94 on December 14, 2008. He had been married to the former Lucy Elizabeth Carr who had died in 2002.\n"}
{"id": "49206564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49206564", "title": "Carlo Amato", "text": "Carlo Amato\n\nBaron Carlo Amato is an Italian aristocrat and businessman who is perhaps most famed for his summer home in Nova Scotia being the disputed point of origination of Pasta primavera. He is also known as a prominent real estate investor including his large role in the development of the small Caribbean Island of Canouan which is part of the nation of St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Baron Amato is the current Ambassador of The Sovereign Military Hospitaller Order of Saint John of Jerusalem of Rhodes and of Malta to the countries of St.Vincent and the Grenadines and St. Lucia. \n"}
{"id": "42686588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42686588", "title": "Daniel Rouzier", "text": "Daniel Rouzier\n\nDaniel Gérard Rouzier (b. Pétion-Ville, 1960) is a Haitian tycoon. Rouzier runs several companies in different sectors in Haiti, including car dealers, and an electric power company; and is member of the executive board of PromoCapital; a Haitian bank. Rouzier is member of the Haitian-American Chamber of Commerce (AMCHAM).\n\nBorn into an elite mulatto family, Rouzier was alumnus of Institution Saint-Louis de Gonzague, the most prestigious school in Haiti. His father, Gérard Rouzier, was a jurist, president of the Haitian Football Federation, Vice President of CONCACAF, and Minister of Sports and Youth in the dictatorship of Jean-Claude Duvalier in the 1970s. One of his siblings is the renowned pianist Fabrice Rouzier.\n\nRouzier graduated from the management and accounting at Dartmouth College and Georgetown University in the United States. He is an avid football player and a bibliophile. Rouzier, who has authored three books, owns one of the most complete libraries of Haiti, and serves as a regular contributor to Haitian daily newspapers. Rouzier is a philanthropist, vice-president of the Haitian chapter of \"Food for the Poor\" and has provided food, housing, medical services, education to poor families within Haiti.\n\nRouzier was a supporter of the 2004 coup d’etat that ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide for the second time, and accused him to be “one of the most violent rulers Haiti ever had,” and argued that Aristide’s “only intent seems to have only been to replace the dictators that preceded him rather than to promote real change in Haiti.” In 2010, he was appointed as Honorary Consul from Jamaica to Haiti. On 15 May 2011, he was appointed Prime Minister by President Michel Martelly the day after his inauguration, but the Chamber of Deputies of Haiti, dominated by the Opposition, rejected his nomination on 21 June 2011 for allegedly paying only $600 in taxes during a five-year span while earning hundreds of millions of dollars. President Martelly has expressed disappointment with the deputies, but he accepted it.\n\nRouzier married Karine Abraham and had three children. In 2005, his wife was kidnapped and held for more than ten days; Abraham was released after the payment of a ransom and has lived abroad since then, in order to undergo therapy because of psychological problems due to this event.\n\n"}
{"id": "54438298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54438298", "title": "Donald G. Malcolm", "text": "Donald G. Malcolm\n\nDonald G. (Don) Malcolm (March 26, 1919 - June 18, 2007) was an American organizational theorist, Professor and Dean at Cal State L.A.'s College of Business and Economics and management consultant, known as co-developer of the Performance, Evaluation, and Review Technique (PERT).\n\nMalcolm was born and raised in Indianapolis. In 1940 he obtained his BSc in Public Service Engineering from Purdue University, and after the war his MSc in industrial engineering. \n\nIn World War II Malcolm served on an aircraft carrier in the Pacific as radioman. After his graduation Malcolm started his academic career as research team leader of the Operations Research Team at the Johns Hopkins University.\nIn 1950 he was lecturer in Mechanical Engineering, and by 1952 assistant professor of industrial engineering at the University of California, Berkeley. \n\nIn the 1950s he was also management consultant for Booz, Allen and Hamilton in Chicago, Illinois, and in those days participated with the US Navy Special Projects Office, especially with Willard Fazar, in the development of PERT. In 1954-1955 he was president of the American Institute of Industrial Engineers, now Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineers.\n\nIn 1962 he settled as management consultant with his own consultancy firm \"Management Technology Inc.\" From 1962 to 1967 he also directed the National Safety Standards division of the US Department of Transportation. From 1970 he was one of the Senior Vice Presidents of Computer Applications, Inc., and from 1972 to 1981 he served as dean of the College of Business and Economics at the California State University, Los Angeles.\n\nIn 1965 Malcolm was awarded a Distinguished Alumnus Award from Purdue University. After his retired in 1981 and Malcolm moved to the Hawaiian island of Maui, where he remained active for many more years. In the new millennium he had moved back to the mainland, and died in 2007 at his home in Santa Monica.\n\nMalcolm made his most notable contributions as team leader on specific operations research projects. The \"Los Angeles Times\" (2007) summarized:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "628925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=628925", "title": "Eurodollar", "text": "Eurodollar\n\nEurodollars are time deposits denominated in U.S. dollars at banks outside the United States, and thus are not under the jurisdiction of the Federal Reserve. Consequently, such deposits are subject to much less regulation than similar deposits within the U.S. The term was originally coined for U.S. dollars in European banks, but it expanded over the years to its present definition. A U.S. dollar-denominated deposit in Tokyo or Beijing would be likewise deemed a Eurodollar deposit. There is no connection with the euro currency or the eurozone.\n\nMore generally, the \"euro-\" prefix can be used to indicate any currency held in a country where it is not the official currency: for example, Euroyen or even Euroeuro.\n\nGradually, after World War II, the quantity of U.S. dollars outside the United States increased significantly, as a result of both the Marshall Plan and imports into the U.S., which had become the largest consumer market after World War II.\n\nAs a result, large amounts of U.S. dollars were in the custody of foreign banks outside the United States. Some foreign countries, including the Soviet Union, also had deposits in U.S. dollars in American banks, granted by certificates. Various history myths exist for the first Eurodollar creation, or booking, but most trace back to Communist governments keeping dollar deposits abroad:–\n\nIn one version, the first booking traces back to Communist China, which, in 1949, managed to move almost all of its U.S. dollars to the Soviet-owned Banque Commerciale pour l'Europe du Nord in Paris before the United States froze the remaining assets during the Korean War.\n\nIn another version, the first booking traces back to the Soviet Union during the Cold War period, especially after the invasion of Hungary in 1956, as the Soviet Union feared that its deposits in North American banks would be frozen as a retaliation. It decided to move some of its holdings to the Moscow Narodny Bank, a Soviet-owned bank with a British charter. \nThe British bank would then deposit that money in the U.S. banks. There would be no chance of confiscating that money, because it belonged to the British bank and not directly to the Soviets. \nOn 28 February 1957, the sum of $800,000 was transferred, creating the first eurodollars. Initially dubbed \"Eurbank dollars\" after the bank's telex address, they eventually became known as \"eurodollars\" as such deposits were at first held mostly by European banks and financial institutions. A major role was played by City of London banks, as the Midland Bank, now HSBC, and their offshore holding companies.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, Eurodollar trading and its development into a dominant world currency began when the Soviet Union wanted better interest rates on their Eurodollars and convinced an Italian banking cartel to give them more interest than what could have been earned if the dollars were deposited in the U.S. The Italian bankers then had to find customers ready to borrow the Soviet dollars and pay above the U.S. legal interest-rate caps for their use, and were able to do so; thus, Eurodollars began to be used increasingly in global finance.\n\nEurodollars can have a higher interest rate attached to them because of the fact that they are out of reach from the Federal Reserve. U.S. banks hold an account at the Fed and can, in theory, receive unlimited liquidity from the Fed if necessary. These required reserves and Fed backing make U.S. Dollar deposits in U.S. banks inherently less risky, and Eurodollar deposits slightly more risky, which requires a slightly higher interest rate.\n\nBy the end of 1970, 385 billion eurodollars were booked offshore. \nThese deposits were lent on as U.S. dollar loans to businesses in other countries where interest rates on loans were perhaps much higher in the local currency, and where the businesses were exporting to the USA and being paid in dollars, thereby avoiding foreign exchange risk on their loans.\n\nSeveral factors led Eurodollars to overtake certificates of deposit (CDs) issued by U.S. banks as the primary private short-term money market instruments by the 1980s, including:\n\nBy December 1985 the Eurocurrency market was estimated by Morgan Guaranty bank to have a net size of 1.668 billion, of which 75% were likely eurodollars. However, since the markets are not responsible to any government agency its growth is hard to estimate. The Eurodollar market is by a wide margin the largest source of global finance. In 1997, nearly 90% of all international loans were made this way.\n\nThe Eurodollar futures contract refers to the financial futures contract based upon these deposits, traded at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). More specifically, EuroDollar futures contracts are derivatives on the interest rate paid on those deposits. A Eurodollar future is a cash settled futures contract whose price moves in response to the interest rate offered on US Dollar denominated deposits held in European banks. \nEurodollar futures are a way for companies and banks to lock in an interest rate today, for money it intends to borrow or lend in the future. Each CME Eurodollar futures contract has a notional or \"face value\" of $1,000,000, though the leverage used in futures allows one contract to be traded with a margin of about one thousand dollars.\n\nCME Eurodollar futures prices are determined by the market’s forecast of the 3-month USD LIBOR interest rate expected to prevail on the settlement date. A price of 95.00 implies an interest rate of 100.00 - 95.00, or 5%. The settlement price of a contract is defined to be 100.00 minus the official British Bankers' Association fixing of 3-month LIBOR on the day the contract is settled.\n\nFor example, if on a particular day an investor buys a single three-month contract at 95.00 (implied settlement LIBOR of 5.00%):\n\n\nOn the settlement date, the settlement price is determined by the actual LIBOR fixing for that day rather than a market-determined contract price.\n\nThe Eurodollar futures contract was launched in 1981, as the first cash-settled futures contract. People reportedly camped out the night before the contract’s open, flooding the pit when the CME opened the doors. That trading pit was the largest pit ever, nearly the size of a football field, and quickly became one of the most active on the trading floor, with over 1500 traders and clerks coming to work every day on what was then known as the CME’s upper trading floor. That floor is no longer, with the CME having moved over to the CBOT’s trading floor and 98% of Eurodollar trading now done electronically.\n\nA single Eurodollar future is similar to a forward rate agreement to borrow or lend US$1,000,000 for three months starting on the contract settlement date. Buying the contract is equivalent to lending money, and selling the contract short is equivalent to borrowing money.\n\nConsider an investor who agreed to lend US$1,000,000 on a particular date for three months at 5.00% per annum (months are calculated on a 30/360 basis). Interest received in 3 months' time would be US$1,000,000 × 5.00% × 90 / 360 = US$12,500. \n\nThis demonstrates the similarity. However, the contract is also different from a loan in several important respects:\n\n40 quarterly expirations and 4 serial expirations are listed in the Eurodollar contract.\nThis means that on 1 January 2011, the exchange will list 40 quarterly expirations (March, June, September, December for 2011 through 2020), the exchange will also list another four serial (monthly) expirations (January, February, April, May 2011). This extends tradeable contracts over ten years, which provides an excellent picture of the shape of the yield curve. The front-month contracts are among the most liquid futures contracts in the world, with liquidity decreasing for the further out contracts. Total open interest for all contracts is typically over 10 million.\n\nThe CME Eurodollar futures contract is used to hedge interest rate swaps. There is an arbitrage relationship between the interest rate swap market, the forward rate agreement market and the Eurodollar contract. CME Eurodollar futures can be traded by implementing a spread strategy among multiple contracts to take advantage of movements in the forward curve for future pricing of interest rates.\n\nIn United States banking, Eurodollars are a popular option for what are known as \"sweeps\". Until 21 July 2011, banks were not allowed to pay interest on corporate checking accounts. To accommodate larger businesses, banks may automatically transfer, or sweep, funds from a corporation's checking account into an overnight investment option to effectively earn interest on those funds. Banks usually allow these funds to be swept either into money market mutual funds, or alternately they may be used for bank funding by transferring to an offshore branch of a bank.\n\n"}
{"id": "18515583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18515583", "title": "Event management software", "text": "Event management software\n\nEvent management software is the generic term for a wide range of software products that are used in the management of professional and academic conferences, trade exhibitions, conventions and smaller events such as Continuing Professional Development (CPD) meetings.\n\nThe most common event management applications are:\n"}
{"id": "436111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=436111", "title": "Executive officer", "text": "Executive officer\n\nAn executive officer (CCE) is generally a person responsible for running an organization, although the exact nature of the role varies depending on the organization. In many militaries, an executive officer is the second-in-command, reporting to the commanding officer. The XO is typically responsible for the management of day-to-day activities, freeing the commander to concentrate on strategy and planning the unit's next move.\n\nWhile there is no clear line between executive or principal and inferior officers, principal officers are high-level officials in the executive branch of U.S. government such as department heads of independent agencies. In \"Humphrey's Executor v. United States\", 295 U.S. 602 (1935), the Court distinguished between executive officers and quasi-legislative or quasi-judicial officers by stating that the former serve at the pleasure of the president and may be removed at his discretion. The latter are removed only with procedures consistent with statutory conditions enacted by Congress. The decision by the Court was that the Federal Trade Commission was a quasi-legislative body because of other powers it had, and therefore, the president could not fire an FTC member for political reasons. Congress can’t retain removal power over officials with executive function (\"Bowsher v. Synar\"). However, statutes can restrict removal if not purely executive (\"Humphrey\"’s executor), but can't restrict removal of purely executive officer (\"Myers v. United States,\" 272 U.S. 52 (1926)). The standard is whether restriction \"impedes the president’s ability to perform his constitutional duty\" (\"Morrison v. Olson\", 487 U.S. 654 (1988)).\n\nIn business, the executive officers are the top officers of a corporation, the chief executive officer (CEO) being the best-known type. The definition varies; for instance, the California Corporate Disclosure Act defines \"executive officers\" as the five most highly compensated officers not also sitting on the board of directors. In many insurance policies, executive officer means, in the case of a corporation, any chairman, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer, president, or general counsel. In the case of a sole proprietorship, an executive officer is the sole proprietor. In the case of a partnership, an executive officer is a managing partner, senior partner, or administrative partner. In the case of a limited liability company, an executive officer is any member, manager, or officer.\n\nIn charity/voluntary sector/non-profit, the executive officer(s) are those appointed to drive the day-to-day decisions of the organization. This is normally a formal appointment made by the executive board of trustees. Specific responsibilities and scope vary and are usually called out in a governance document.\n\nIn the units of some military forces, typically those that are naval in nature (including the U.S. Marine Corps), the executive officer is the second-in-command, reporting to the commanding officer (CO). \n\nIn most non-naval military services that are land-based (except the U.S. Army, where an executive officer is the second-in-command of certain units) or in joint military organizations, the executive officer is an administrative staff position versus a command position. XOs in these positions typically assist a commander or deputy commander (or in the case of joint staffs or joint commands, a director) by managing day-to-day activities such as management of the senior officer's schedule, screening of documents or other products, and oversight of the senior officer's administrative support staff.\n\nManagement of individual assets in the airline industry is derived from the military terminology, where an executive officer or first officer, is the second in command of the aircraft. In a fixed wing aircraft, the first officer sits in the right-hand seat, but on a rotary wing aircraft, they sit on the left. Management of the airline as a whole is more in-line with the corporate example above.\n\nThe term XO is not used in most British Army or Royal Marines units, where the designation second-in-command (2i/c) is used as a formal appointment. However, the position does exist in some specialist regiments within the Royal Artillery where the exact duties vary. In the Royal Air Force, the term XO is informally used between officers and airmen, referring to the officer who is second-in-command. It is, however, formally used in the Royal Navy. In smaller vessels, such as submarines and frigates, the executive officer also holds the position of first lieutenant. Originally, the second-in-command was usually referred to as first lieutenant (or as \"number one\"), although it is becoming more common to hear the term XO. On larger ships of the Royal Navy, in which the XO holds the rank of commander, the XO is usually referred to simply as \"the commander\". The XO also heads the executive department.\n\nThere are executive officer slots in each company, battalion, regiment, and brigade, though generally not at higher levels of command until the army level. The XO is typically the second-in-command, and serves as the day-to-day manager of the command staff. The XO is typically responsible for the management of day-to-day activities, such as administration, maintenance, and logistics, freeing a commander to concentrate on tactical/operational planning and execution and a general officer commander to concentrate on similar planning and execution at the operational-strategic level. The XO may take charge in the absence of the commander, the exception being commands with a deputy commander, although recent army command reductions have either merged the two, or eliminated the deputy. \n\nA few organizations within the army maintain authorizations for a chief warrant officer to serve as an XO/2IC. One example of this is the Modular Ammunition Platoon, where the ammunition technician acts as the second-in-command during the absence of the platoon leader. While the experience gained as an XO is highly beneficial for an army officer's professional development, it is not necessarily a prerequisite for a command position. At the army level of command, a commanding general will have a deputy commanding general as second in command and an \"executive officer\" on his personal staff who works as his liaison to the general staff and an aide-de-camp who takes care of his calendar and personal needs.\n\nThe executive officer is the billet of the officer who is second-in-command at the company/battery, battalion/squadron, and Marine Expeditionary Unit (MEU)/regiment/aviation group (i.e., Marine Aircraft Group, Marine Air Control Group, and Marine Wing Support Group) level. Per the \"Marine Corps Manual\", paragraph 1007.5: \"The executive officer shall be an officer of the organization who is eligible to succeed to command, and normally will be the officer next in rank to the commander. As the direct representative of the commander, all orders issued by the executive officer shall have the same force and effect as though issued by the commander. The executive officer shall conform to and effectuate the policies and orders of the commander and shall be prepared to assume command at any time the need should arise.\" At higher levels of command, the second-in-command is the assistant division/wing commander or, in the case of a Marine Expeditionary Force (MEF), deputy commander. For those commands having a general officer (usually a brigadier general) in command without a designated assistant commander or deputy commander, such as a Marine Expeditionary Brigade (MEB) or Marine Logistics Group (MLG), the chief of staff (a colonel) is the second-in-command. Unlike their U.S. Navy counterparts, XOs of U.S. Marine Corps squadrons in U.S. Naval Aviation do not \"fleet up\" to become CO.\n\nAn XO is assigned to all ships, aviation squadrons, and shore units and installations, and is responsible to the captain for all ship’s work, drills, exercises, personnel organization, and the policing and inspection of the ship. When the ship goes to action stations, the XO confirms that the ship actually is ready for combat and reports this to the captain. The XO's own action station is in a separate part of the ship from that of the captain, so that a single hit will not likely incapacitate both officers. On small ships with no first lieutenant, gunnery officer, or navigator, the executive officer may also be responsible for the duties of those officers. Carrier air wings in the U.S. Navy do not have an XO, but have a deputy commander (DCAG) instead; for shore-based or functional naval air wings, the equivalent position is the deputy commodore.\n\nIn the U.S. Coast Guard, on board small cutters and patrol boats that are commanded by either a junior officer or a senior enlisted member, executive chief petty officers or executive petty officers are usually assigned to serve as second-in-command.\n\nOn U.S. aircraft carriers, per Title 10 United States Code, both the captain (i.e., the commanding officer or CO) and the XO assigned to the ship are naval aviators or naval flight officers. Although not specified by 10 U.S.C., large, air-capable amphibious assault ships will have one of the two senior positions (CO or XO) occupied by a surface warfare officer and the other by a naval aviator or naval flight officer, alternating at each change of command. In naval aviation, in U.S. Navy squadrons (other than fleet replacement squadrons and the Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron {viz., Blue Angels}), the XO will eventually \"fleet up\" to become the CO of that squadron after twelve to fifteen months as XO. This fleet up model was also adopted in the early 2000s for XO and CO positions of both large amphibious assault ships (but not aircraft carriers) and \"Arleigh Burke\"-class guided missile destroyers. In addition to operational and tactical responsibilities, XOs also shoulder most of the CO's administrative burden, to include oversight of the command's administrative officer (if assigned) and administrative department.\n\nThe term of XO in the Navy and Coast Guard should not be confused with the term \"executive assistant\" (\"EA\") in those services, the latter being an officer in the rank of captain (O-6) who serves either dual-hatted as, or in addition to, the chief of staff to a flag officer.\n\nIn the U.S. Air Force, XO is not a command or second-in-command position. Instead, it is used to designate a company grade officer or junior field grade officer who serves as a staff administrative assistant to a senior officer, starting with a commander at the squadron level or above (e.g., squadron, group, wing, numbered air force, major command). In the other uniformed services, this position may be called an aide, an \"executive assistant\" or an adjutant. Like the Army, while experience gained as an XO is highly beneficial for an Air Force officer's professional development, it is not necessarily a prerequisite for a command position. For officers holding second-in-command positions, the U.S. Air Force uses the titles of \"vice commander\" (CV), or \"deputy commander\" (CD) for an officer who serves as the second-in-command for an organization above squadron level. For a squadron level organization, the second-in-command is typically termed the \"director of operations\" or \"operations officer\" (DO). These latter terms were previously used for similar positions at the group and wing level until renamed as the \"operations group commander (OG/CC). The rank of an executive officer in the U.S. Air Force can vary from lieutenant or captain working for a colonel, to a major or lieutenant colonel in support of a brigadier general or major general, to a colonel serving as the executive officer to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force. \n\nThe U.S. Air Force uses the term \"executive officer\" for officers assigned as personal staff officers to general officers. Their role is similar to aides-de-camp in the U.S. Army, Marine Corps, and Air Force and flag aides and flag lieutenants in the U.S. Navy and Coast Guard.\n\nA unique application of the term is executive officer to the Supreme Allied Commander Europe, and commander, United States European Command. This position is typically held by a brigadier general or rear admiral (LH) and is drawn from all of the armed services. The duties involve serving as both an \"executive assistant\" to Supreme Allied Commander Europe (SACEUR) and also includes command responsibilities for the U.S. military community at Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE) in Belgium.\n"}
{"id": "17411315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17411315", "title": "Fare basis code", "text": "Fare basis code\n\nA fare basis code (often just referred to as a fare basis) is an alphabetic or alpha-numeric code used by airlines to identify a fare type and allow airline staff and travel agents to find the rules applicable to that fare. Although airlines now set their own fare basis codes, there are some patterns that have evolved over the years and may still be in use.\n\nFare codes start with a letter called a booking class (indicating travel class among other things) which almost always matches the letter code that the reservation is booked in. Other letters or numbers may follow. Typically a fare basis will be 3 to 7 characters long, but can be up to 8.\n\nThe first character of the fare basis code is always a letter, and will almost always match the booking class. Booking codes are the identifiers used by the airline's revenue management department to control how many seats can be sold at a particular fare level. For example, a plane may have 25 economy seats still available and the airline may show it in a reservation system as codice_1 which indicates how many of each booking class can be reserved. Some codes cannot be sold by agents, and those seats may be reserved for international connections, loyalty programs, or airline staff relocation.\n\nBooking codes were defined by IATA, but airlines have deviated from the IATA standard and current booking codes are airline-specific. The same code may have different meanings for tickets issued by different airlines. Many airlines use nearly all letters of the alphabet to allow finer yield management. Nevertheless, certain booking codes have retained the same meaning across most airlines:\n\nLetters and numbers in other sections of the fare basis code may provide the following information:\nThere is an endless list of other codes on modern fares. These are not standardized in any way, and may often be for short-term use. The following are some examples:\n\nFare construction refers to the application of fares which can cover the flights in the reservation, necessary to price the air ticket for issuance.\n\nIt is commonly presented as a single line with standardized codes which can be used for travel agents to price the ticket in global distribution systems. For example, a fare construction may say:\n\nFare construction is a complicated task because each fare comes with a lot of rules regarding the usage, however the rules are designed to be validatable by computers so the system can decide to accept or reject easily. Most commonly fare construction is done by a computer automatically, but it is not guaranteed that the lowest fares can be found, therefore manual fare construction can also be done, which means finding the suitable fares manually and applying the fares to an itinerary in order to buy a ticket.\n\nIt is common for a multi-sector air ticket to have more than one fare basis, particularly if it is for carriage on more than one airline, or different classes of travel are involved. The issuing airline may often have an interline agreement to allow other airlines on the ticket. One disadvantage of this system is that if any change is made, the most restrictive fare rule, and/or the highest change fee, may apply to the entire ticket, not just the portion being changed.\n\nIn a Global Distribution System, the fare basis will typically display as part of a fare display, and will not normally be shown in an availability display.\nSome modern booking systems allow availability searches using parameters such as time of day and lowest fare, and may negate the need for an agent to firstly study the fare basis rules.\n\nThe fare basis is normally shown on the air ticket. On older paper tickets, it was highlighted on the relevant coupon for that flight. On modern e-tickets, it is often printed under the flight details.\n"}
{"id": "42139367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42139367", "title": "Goelet Building", "text": "Goelet Building\n\n\"Other Goelet Buildings include the Judge Building on 5th Avenue\"\nThe Goelet Building is a historical structure located at 900 Broadway on the corner of East 20th Street, in the Ladies' Mile Historic District of Manhattan, New York City. It was designed by Stanford White of McKim, Mead & White, and built in 1886–1887. The building was enlarged in 1905–06 by Maynicke & Franke.\n"}
{"id": "25631567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25631567", "title": "Government Executive", "text": "Government Executive\n\nGovernment Executive is an American media publication based in Washington, D.C. that covers daily government business. Their reporting is tailored to civilian posts, federal bureaucrats, and military officials who partake in the day-to-day of public policy in the United States. \n\n\"Government Executive\" is led by Tom Shoop, the organization's vice president and editor-in-chief, and Katherine McIntire Peters, the deputy editor. Constance Sayers is its president and publisher, and Tim Hartman is chief executive officer of the Government Executive Media Group, a subsidiary of Atlantic Media. \n\nGovernment Executive Media Group also includes \"Nextgov\", which covers technology and the future of government; \"Defense One,\" covering emerging national security issues; and \"Route Fifty,\" reporting on state and local government. The site also maintains a burgeoning events division, which produces at least 85 events per year. Last year, it produced “Fedstival,” a convention of leaders throughout the U.S. federal government to discuss the future of bureaucracy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51771230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51771230", "title": "Hedge Fund Standards Board", "text": "Hedge Fund Standards Board\n\nThe Standards Board for Alternative Investments (SBAI), formerly known as the Hedge Fund Standards Board, is an international standard-setting body for the alternative investment industry and sets the voluntary standard of best practices and practices endorsed by its members. Its primary role is to be the custodian of the Alternative Investment Standards (formerly known as \"the Standards\"), which are designed to create a \"framework of transparency, integrity and good governance\" in the way the hedge fund industry operates.\nThe SBAI originated in June 2007, when a group of leading alternative investment managers formed the Hedge Fund Working Group to develop industry standards in areas such as disclosure, valuation, risk management, governance, and shareholder conduct.. Founding firms included Marshall Wace, Cheyne Capital Management, Man Group, and CQS. In January 2008, the working group was established as a nonprofit, called the Hedge Fund Standards Board (HFSB). Its primary purpose was to oversee what's called the \"Standards\" (now known as the \"Alternative Investment Standards\"). At its inception, the board had 14 leading hedge fund managers and was chaired by Sir Andrew Large to develop the standards. By 2016 it had almost 200 hedge fund managers and institutional investors as members; the total assets under management of all members was $3 trillion. In 2014, the board became an affiliate member of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) and in 2016 established mutual observer relationship with the International Forum of Sovereign Wealth Funds.\n\nOn July 2011, Dame Amelia Fawcett was appointed Chair of the SBAI, replacing Andrew Large. In 2014, SBAI becomes an affiliate member of International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) and in 2016 SBAI and International Forum of Sovereign Wealth Funds (IFSWF) agreed to engage in mutual observership.\n\nIn September 2017 it announced that it was changing its name from HFSB to the SBAI or Standards Board for Alternative Investments (SBAI) to \"reflect the evolution of the industry\". Specifically, it noted that \"managers increasingly offer their investment strategies through a variety of vehicles beyond 'hedge funds', including liquid alternatives, regulated funds, co-investment vehicles, drawdown funds, and managed accounts\" while at the same time moving away from \"hedge fund\" as a term in order to \"classify and integrate a diverse array of alternatives strategies by underlying asset class, return profile, market exposure, or liquidity\".\n"}
{"id": "23917521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23917521", "title": "Henry Fairfax (priest)", "text": "Henry Fairfax (priest)\n\nHenry Fairfax (1634–1702) was an English clergyman and academic, Dean of Norwich after the Glorious Revolution.\n\nHe was a twin son (with John) of Charles Fairfax, and grandson of Thomas Fairfax, 1st Lord Fairfax of Cameron. He was educated at Exeter College, Oxford, where he matriculated 21 July 1653. He graduated B.A. in 1657, M.A. 1659, B.D. 26 April 1660, and D.D. 10 March 1680. He was elected a Fellow of Magdalen College in 1659.\n\nHe was senior fellow of Magdalen in 1687, when James II endeavoured to force on the college a president of his own choosing. Fairfax signed the petition to the king (9 April 1687) begging him to cancel his decree ordering the fellows to elect Anthony Farmer. When that appeal failed he voted for a second petition to the same effect (15 April), and on 17 April took a prominent part in electing John Hough to the presidency. With his colleagues he wrote to James Butler, 1st Duke of Ormonde (19 April), asking for his intervention with the king. On 6 June he was summoned before the court of high commission at Whitehall. On 13 June he was brought before George Jeffreys, president of the court, protested against the proceedings, denied their legality, and declined to sign any answer to the charges brought against him. Jeffreys abused him, and told him he was fit for a madhouse.\n\nOn 22 June 1687 the high court commissioners suspended Fairfax from his fellowship; but he disputed the validity of the act, and still resided in the college. When the royal commissioners first visited Magdalen on 20 October Fairfax absented himself, although he was in Oxford, whereupon he was pronounced contumacious (31 October) He appeared before the commissioners next day, and denied the right of the king's new nominee, Samuel Parker, to act as president. He would appeal, he said, to the court of king's bench, and with another fellow, Thomas Stafford, signed a protest against the proceedings of the Oxford visitors. On being warned of its dangers he withdrew the document; but he was finally expelled the college and his name struck off the books (25 October). On 11 November his fellowship was filled up. On 22 December he was included in the decree which disqualified all the expelled fellows of Magdalen from holding any ecclesiastical benefice.\n\nAfter the abdication of James II Fairfax was restored to his fellowship (26 October 1689). A year later (23 October 1689) he was rewarded with the deanery of Norwich, and he died there on 2 May 1702, aged 68, being buried in the cathedral. He is one of the persons credited with the authorship of \"An Impartial Relation of the whole proceedings against St. Mary Magdalen Colledge in Oxon... in 1687\" (1688), usually claimed for Charles Aldworth, vice-president of the college.\n"}
{"id": "6093560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6093560", "title": "Hyperion Planning", "text": "Hyperion Planning\n\nOracle Hyperion Planning is a budgeting and forecasting application that aims at improving business predictability. It used to be owned by Hyperion Solutions Corporation, which was purchased by Oracle Corporation in March 2007. Oracle Hyperion Planning uses Essbase (a multidimensional database product sold by Hyperion) as a database and calculation engine, a relational repository for business logic, and includes a web-based user interface.\n\nThe software itself is a collection of JavaServer Pages and Java Servlets that provide a web interface, as part of an N-tier architecture: a relational database (Microsoft SQL Server, IBM DB2 or Oracle database), Java EE servlet container (Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, BEA Weblogic or Oracle Application Server), and the Essbase server itself make up a full installation of the product.\n"}
{"id": "34151341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34151341", "title": "IPS Supported Employment", "text": "IPS Supported Employment\n\nIPS Supported Employment is an evidence-based approach to supported employment for people who have a mental illness. IPS stands for Individual Placement and Support. IPS supports people in their efforts to achieve steady, meaningful employment in mainstream competitive jobs, either part-time or full-time. This stands in contrast to other vocational rehabilitation approaches that employ people in sheltered workshops and other set-aside jobs.\n\nIPS has been extensively researched and proven to be effective compared to standard employment services.\n\nIPS is based on eight principles. Mental health agencies that implement IPS aim to follow these principles in delivering vocational services.\nThe implementation of these principles can be assessed by using a fidelity scale and an accompanying manual that have been developed specifically for IPS.\n\nIPS was first studied in a randomized controlled trial in 1996. Between 1996 and 2011, IPS was evaluated in 15 randomized controlled trials. This research has established IPS as an evidence-based practice in community psychiatry. Studies in this body of research typically compare IPS to another approach to vocational rehabilitation. Study participants are randomized to receive services from one of the vocational approaches being studied. Researchers observe the proportion of participants in each group who get jobs within some fixed period of time. This follow-up period varies across studies from 6 months to 30 months, averaging 18 months. On average, 60% of research participants get a competitive job during the follow-up period when they receive IPS, whereas 24% of participants get a competitive job when receiving other vocational services. These results, along with data from non-research implementations of IPS, have resulted in the establishment of benchmark employment rates for IPS programs.\n\nIn addition to testing the comparative effectiveness of IPS, researchers have conducted implementation research on IPS, research on predictors of outcome (who gets jobs and why), barriers to employment for people who have a serious mental illness, and a number of other related areas.\n\nIPS services are typically delivered by supported employment teams that operate within community mental health agencies. These teams work with their agency's clinical staff to coordinate services. When a client at the agency expresses interest in working, that client is referred to an employment specialist on the IPS team for an initial meeting. The employment specialist works with the client to learn about his or her goals and preferences and provides information about how IPS works. When someone chooses to enroll in IPS, that person and the employment specialist make a plan together and begin to look for regular jobs in the community as soon as the client expresses interest in doing so. Employment specialists are trained to provide people with support, coaching, resume development, interview training, and on-the-job support. Employment specialists are also trained to do job development; a process in which employment specialists build relationships with employers in businesses that have jobs that are consistent with client preferences.\n\nIn IPS, the client's preferences are central. The client decides whether or not employers and potential employers know about her/his mental illness and whether or not the employment specialist will talk to employer/s on his or her behalf. The client also decides which jobs to apply for and how much he or she wants to work. The decision about how much to work is often influenced by a desire to transition to a working life while minimizing the risk of being both out of work and without disability benefits. Part of the employment specialist's job is to connect people with benefits counseling so that they can make informed decisions in this area.\n\nPeople who try IPS often get a number of jobs before finding one that is a good fit. In IPS there is an orientation towards moving between jobs as part of a normal process. This process aims at convergence towards stable employment and toward the client's personal recovery goals.\n\nAs of 2009 only 2.1% of U.S. mental health clients had access to evidence-based vocational services. Mental health agencies often face financing challenges in implementing IPS due to the absence of clear reimbursement policies for vocational services in psychiatry. Nonetheless, as of 2011, IPS was offered by mental health agencies in at least 13 states. Because there is no national directory of IPS providers, people interested in access to these services must ask local mental health services providers about their vocational services in order to find out whether or not evidence-based vocational services are available.\n\nThe Johnson & Johnson – Dartmouth Community Mental Health Program was created to further the dissemination of IPS by providing a structure for supporting implementations of IPS at the state level. In 2001, the Dartmouth Psychiatric Research Center launched this program with philanthropic support from Johnson & Johnson Corporate Contributions. This program has resulted in the formation of a national learning collaborative that supports the implementation of IPS services in everyday (i.e., non-research) settings. Membership in this collaborative is widespread. As of 2011, 13 states containing 130 participating mental health agencies were part of the collaborative. States that enter the learning collaborative receive four years of seed funding to support initial implementation efforts. After this first phase, states and their participating agencies stay involved by sharing outcome and service data, participating in research projects, and by continuing statewide implementation efforts.\n\nAlthough IPS was developed in the United States, research literature suggests a wider interest in IPS and suggests that the intervention is effective across a range of cultures and policy environments. Randomized trials of IPS have been conducted in Canada, throughout Europe, including in the UK, in Australia, The Netherlands, Switzerland, and Hong Kong.\n\nIn the UK, Centre for Mental Health has developed a Centres of Excellence project based on the Dartmouth Medical School scheme. The Centres will act as exemplars of how Individual Placement and Support (IPS) can be implemented in localities across England. http://www.centreformentalhealth.org.uk/employment/ips.aspx\n\n"}
{"id": "11738990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11738990", "title": "Isao Matsuoka", "text": "Isao Matsuoka\n\nA graduate of the prestigious Konan University, Matsuoka served as Chairman of the Toho Co., Ltd., a position he has held for 14 years until his retirement in 2009. He had previously served as President and worked for the company for over 50 years having joined in 1957.\n\nMatsuoka is credited with helping establish Toho as the preeminent film production, distribution and exhibition company in Japan with his revolutionary and innovative reforms. Established in 1932, Toho is known internationally for its \"Godzilla\" series and the Akira Kurosawa classics such as \"Seven Samurai\", \"Yojimbo\", and \"Kagemusha\".\n\nMr Matsuoka was awarded a Lifetime Achievement Award by the National Association of Theatre Owners at ShoWest in 2007, and the FIAPF Award for outstanding achievement in film at the 2009 Asia Pacific Screen Awards.\n\nHis son, Shuzo Matsuoka is a former professional tennis player.\n\n"}
{"id": "23450997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23450997", "title": "John F. Kennedy Jr. plane crash", "text": "John F. Kennedy Jr. plane crash\n\nJohn F. Kennedy Jr. was an American lawyer, journalist, magazine publisher, and the son of President John F. Kennedy. On the evening of July 16, 1999, Kennedy died when the airplane he was flying crashed into the Atlantic Ocean, approximately west of Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts. Kennedy's wife, Carolyn Bessette, and sister-in-law, Lauren Bessette, were also on board and died. The Piper Saratoga light aircraft had departed from New Jersey's Essex County Airport, and its intended route was along the coastline of Connecticut and across Rhode Island Sound to Martha's Vineyard Airport.\n\nThe official investigation by the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) concluded that Kennedy fell victim to spatial disorientation while he was descending over water at night and consequently lost control of his plane. Kennedy did not hold an instrument rating and therefore he was only certified to fly under visual flight rules. At the time of the crash, the weather and light conditions were such that all basic landmarks were obscured, making visual flight challenging, although legally still permissible.\n\nOn the evening of July 16, 1999, John F. Kennedy Jr. piloted a Piper Saratoga to attend the wedding of his cousin, Rory, to Mark Bailey. The plane also carried Kennedy's wife, Carolyn Bessette, and sister-in-law, Lauren Bessette. Kennedy had purchased his plane three months before the crash. The Bessette sisters were seated in the second row of seats, which faced the rear of the plane and were back-to-back with the pilot's seat.\n\nKennedy checked in with the air traffic control tower at Martha's Vineyard Airport before his departure. At 8:38 p.m. on July 16, Kennedy departed from New Jersey's Essex County Airport, west of Midtown Manhattan. At about 9:41 p.m., unknown until subsequent official investigations, Kennedy's plane crashed nearly nose first into the Atlantic Ocean. At 10:05 p.m., the air traffic controller at Martha's Vineyard Airport had a clerical-duties summer intern contact the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) office in Bridgeport, Connecticut about Kennedy's failure to arrive, but the intern was told that no information could be released to him over the phone.\n\nAt 2:15 a.m. on July 17, the Kennedys reported to the local Coast Guard Air Station that the plane had not arrived. At 4 a.m., the U.S. Coast Guard began a search and rescue operation. Kennedy's cousin, Anthony Stanislas Radziwill, told the press that if Kennedy was still alive, \"He'll find a way to get out. He possesses the will to survive, enough will for all three of them.\" Officials were not optimistic about finding Kennedy alive after several pieces of debris from his plane were recovered in the Atlantic Ocean. \"There is always hope,\" Coast Guard Lt. Gary Jones said. \"But unfortunately, when you find certain pieces of evidence, you have to be prepared for anything.\"\n\nPresident Bill Clinton spoke with Kennedy's older sister, Caroline, and later called his paternal uncle, Ted. Clinton also spoke to Andrew Cuomo, who was married to Kennedy's cousin, Kerry, at the time. \"He wanted to let them know he was thinking about them, that we'll do everything we can, and that our prayers are with them\", Clinton spokesman Joe Lockhart said. Clinton ordered U.S. Navy warships to assist in the search for Kennedy's plane. Critics argued that the search was an abuse of taxpayer dollars, as no ordinary citizen would receive similar treatment. Clinton said that afternoon that the Kennedys had \"suffered much, and given more\", and he also called for them to feel \"the strength of God, the love of their friends and the prayers of their fellow citizens\".\n\nOn July 19, the NOAA vessel \"Rude\" finally located fragments of Kennedy's plane using side-scan sonar. The \"Rude\" captured high-resolution images which were used to create a three-dimensional map of the ocean floor. At 11:30 p.m. on July 20, the salvage ship USNS \"Grasp\" (T-ARS-51) identified the plane's fuselage. Navy divers found parts of the plane strewn over a broad area of seabed below the surface, approximately west of Martha's Vineyard.\n\nOn the afternoon of July 21, divers recovered the bodies of Kennedy and the Bessette sisters. Divers found the Bessette sisters were near the fuselage, while Kennedy himself was still strapped in his seat. Coast Guard Admiral Richard M. Larrabee said that all three bodies were \"near and under\" the fuselage, still strapped in. The bodies were taken to the county medical examiner's office by motorcade. Autopsies on the evening of July 21 performed by the county medical examiner's office found that all three had died upon impact. At the same time, the Kennedy and Bessette families announced their plans for memorial services. After the autopsies were completed, the three bodies were taken from Hyannis to Duxbury, Massachusetts, where they were cremated in the Mayflower Cemetery crematorium.\n\nThe National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) officially declared that Kennedy's plane had crashed into the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Martha's Vineyard; the probable cause of the crash was pilot error: \"[Kennedy]'s failure to maintain control of the airplane during a descent over water at night, which was a result of spatial disorientation\". Kennedy was not qualified to fly his plane by \"instruments only\". The crash occurred in conditions not legally requiring such qualification. Other pilots besides Kennedy flying similar routes on the night of the accident reported no visual horizon due to haze.\n\nHaze and visibility\n\nAtmospheric conditions along Kennedy's flight path on the night of the crash were occasionally hazy, which can lead to spatial disorientation for pilots. The weather was officially listed as \"visual meteorological conditions\" (VMC), which allowed Kennedy to fly under Visual Flight Rules (VFR) rather than Instrument Flight Rules (IFR), as he lacked an instrument rating. The visibility was very poor in Essex County, New Jersey, and airports along Kennedy's flight path reported visibilities between 5 and 8 miles with haze and a few clouds. Some pilots flying similar routes as Kennedy on the night of the accident reported no visual horizon over water because of haze. Also, the NTSB reported on one pilot who cancelled a similar flight that evening due to \"poor\" weather. The conditions near the crash site were: \"Clear skies at or below 12,000 feet; visibility 10 miles\".\n\nPilot experience\n\nKennedy first obtained his private pilot license in 1998, and received \"high performance airplane\" and \"complex airplane\" endorsements two months before the crash. His estimated total flight experience before the crash was about 310 hours, of which 55 hours were at night. His estimated flight time in the accident airplane was about 36 hours, of which about 9.4 hours were at night. Approximately 3 hours of that flight time were without a Certified Flight Instructor (CFI) on board, and only 48 minutes of that time was flown at night, which included a night landing.\n\nIt is not clear how much of his total flight experience was in the plane type that crashed or in Kennedy's other, more basic plane, the Cessna Skylane 182. Fifteen months before the crash, Kennedy had flown about 35 flights either to or from northern New Jersey and the Martha's Vineyard area. Kennedy flew more than 17 of these legs without a CFI on board, including at least five at night. His last known flight in his airplane without a CFI on board happened two months before the crash.\n\nPilot training\n\nThe CFI who prepared Kennedy for his private pilot checkride stated that he had \"very good\" flying skills for his level of experience. Four months before the crash, Kennedy passed the FAA's written airplane instrument examination and later enrolled in an instrument rating course. He continued to receive flight instruction in New Jersey in his plane, including flights from CDW to MVY. His instructors said Kennedy required help working the rudder pedals to taxi and land the plane because of his ankle injury.\n\nDuring a training flight at night under instrument conditions, his instructor stated that Kennedy had the ability to fly the airplane without a visible horizon but may have had difficulty performing additional tasks under such conditions. He also stated that the pilot was not ready for an instrument evaluation, and needed additional training. The instructor at the time of the crash was not aware that Kennedy would be flying in those conditions without an instructor on board. The CFI further stated that he had talked to Kennedy on the night of the accident and offered to fly with him that night. He stated that Kennedy had the capability to conduct a night flight to Martha's Vineyard as long as a visible horizon existed.\n\nPsychological stress\n\nThe NTSB suggested that Kennedy's marriage may have contributed to a source of stress by the time of the crash. Additionally, Kennedy's magazine, \"George\", was in serious financial trouble. According to the Aeronautical Information Manual (AIM): \"stress from everyday living can impair pilot performance, often in subtle ways. Distractions can so interfere with judgment that unwarranted risks are taken, such as flying into deteriorating weather conditions to keep on schedule.\"\n\nPilot distraction\n\nFrom 8:49 p.m., about 10 minutes after departure, and for a 5 minute period lasting until 8:54 p.m., Kennedy's plane flew in the same vicinity as American Airlines Flight 1484, a Fokker 100, which was on approach to Westchester County Airport (HPN). The Traffic collision avoidance system (TCAS) sounded on the Fokker 100, leading to some discussion between the Fokker and the New York approach controller (ATC). However, the interaction ended with American Airlines Flight 1484 reporting to ATC that they believe the other plane was a Piper and that the TCAS warning was resolved. No corrective action was reported to have been taken by ATC nor American Airlines Flight 1484. It is not known if Kennedy was aware of, or distracted by, the incident.\n\nLate departure\n\nThe flight was originally scheduled for daylight hours, but had to be postponed after Kennedy's sister-in-law was delayed at work. Heavy traffic further delayed Kennedy's flight and pushed it back until after dark. Originally planned to depart at 6:00 p.m., Kennedy's plane departed at 8:39 p.m. instead, nearly a half-hour past sunset. At the time of the takeoff, the moon was just above the horizon and provided very little illumination.\n\nNo flight plan or request for help\n\nKennedy never received a weather briefing or filed a flight plan with any Flight Service Station. Except for the take-off portion of his flight, Kennedy did not contact any air traffic controllers; during the flight, he never requested help or declared an emergency. Under the conditions of his flight, Kennedy was not required to file a flight plan, and because he did not, no one knew his exact route or expected time of his arrival. According to the Weather Service International, as reported in the investigation by the National Transportation Safety Board, Kennedy made two weather requests before taking off. The information he was provided indicated that visibility ranged from 10 miles along his route to four miles at Martha's Vineyard.\n\nFlight over featureless, open water\n\nShortly after passing Point Judith, Rhode Island, Kennedy's plane headed directly towards Martha's Vineyard. Instead of following the coastline of Rhode Island Sound and Buzzards Bay, which would have provided visible lights on the ground, Kennedy chose the shorter, direct path over a 30-mile (50 km) open stretch of water. According to the FAA Airplane Flying Handbook, crossing large bodies of water at night may be very hazardous, not only from the standpoint of ditching in the water, but also because the featureless horizon visually blends with the water, in which case depth perception and orientation become difficult.\n\nFoot injury\n\nSix weeks before the crash, Kennedy had fractured his left ankle in a paragliding accident over the Memorial Day weekend. He had surgery and wore a cast which was removed just the day before the fatal flight. He still walked with a limp on the day of the accident. During his interviews, Kennedy's orthopaedic surgeon stated that, at the time of the crash, he would have been able to apply the type of pressure that would normally be required to drive a car.\n\nIncorrect radio frequencies\n\nWhile the NTSB examined the wreckage, they soon discovered that both of Kennedy's radios had incorrect frequencies selected. Kennedy had accidentally selected 127.25 for Martha Vineyard's ATIS instead of 126.25; likewise, he selected 135.25 for Essex County ATIS, but it should have been 135.5. The NTSB declined to comment on the contribution this factor had in the crash, if any.\n\nOn the morning of July 22, relatives brought the cremated remains of Kennedy onto the . His ashes were later scattered into the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Martha's Vineyard. The ship was used for the public memorial service with the permission of U.S. Secretary of Defense William Cohen. \"Briscoe\" spent about half an hour off the Vineyard's southwest coast. She was two or three miles away from the crash site.\n\nPresident Bill Clinton ordered that the flags at the White House be lowered to half-staff to honor Kennedy. During a public memorial service for Kennedy, his paternal uncle, Ted, stated:\n\nKennedy's last will and testament, signed 18 months before his death, stipulated that all of his personal belongings, property, and holdings were to be \"evenly distributed\" among his two nieces, Rose and Tatiana, and nephew, John, who were among 14 beneficiaries in the will.\n\nEpisodes of the two Canadian series, \"Final 24\" and \"Air Disasters\", both explore the details of Kennedy's life and death, and the events surrounding the plane crash.\n\n"}
{"id": "17902522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17902522", "title": "Lawrence L. Shenfield", "text": "Lawrence L. Shenfield\n\nLawrence Lewis \"Larry\" Shenfield (October 5, 1891 – October 9, 1974) was an advertising executive who was instrumental in promoting the development of radio broadcasting during its golden age of the 1920s and 1930s. Larry lined up sponsors to help further the popularity of such stars as Orson Welles and Dinah Shore. After his retirement, Larry developed a second career as a prominent philatelist internationally recognized in the field of postal history. His careful studies of the postage stamps and postal history of the Confederate States are relied upon by stamp collectors and experts in philately to the present day.\n\nMr. Shenfield was born in Brooklyn, New York. He received his undergraduate degree in architecture in 1914 from Columbia University in New York City and served in the U.S. Army during World War I, having undergone artillery training in Plattsburgh, New York. After the war, Shenfield worked in New York as an architect for Eggers & Higgins and designed a number of buildings in Brooklyn and Manhattan. \n\nSubsequently, Shenfield left architecture for the rapidly growing field of radio and television advertising. He worked for the advertising firm Pedlar & Ryan, where he handled advertising and public relations for radio broadcasts by Orson Welles. Later, Shenfield became a principal in the advertising firm Doherty, Clifford, Steers & Shenfield. In 1939, Shenfield became acquainted with Dinah Shore and was instrumental in launching her career by promoting the nationwide CBS radio program, \"Ben Bernie's Orchestra\" as well as the NBC Radio program The Chamber Music Society of Lower Basin Street. In 1965, Shenfield retired after Doherty, Clifford, Steers & Shenfield merged with Maurice H. Needham Co., forming the predecessor of the Omnicom Group, one of the world's largest advertising holding companies. In 1968, Shenfield returned briefly from retirement to provide support for Doherty, Clifford, Steers & Shenfield's and Merck & Co.'s lawsuit against the Federal Trade Commission concerning truth and fairness in advertising.\n\nShenfield was a prominent expert, collector and writer of philatelic literature on Confederate philately. In 1942, he published a pamphlet on Prisoner of War and Flag of Truce mail. Shenfield subsequently was active in the Collectors Club of New York and numerous philatelic congresses. At the 1946 Philatelic Congress, Shenfield presented \"Letter Unpaid Marking of Louisville, Kentucky\". In 1955, the Confederate Stamp Alliance awarded Shenfield the Haydn Myer Award in recognition of his distinguished service to the Alliance. In 1959, along with F. Van Dyk MacBride, Shenfield co-chaired the editorial board for the Dietz Confederate Catalog and Handbook.\n\nShenfield's most widely known book on Confederate States postal history, \"Confederate States of America, The Special Postal Routes\", was published in 1961. The book is generally known as the best single source for the various special postal operations of the Confederate States of America and is regarded as a major reference work in the area of Confederate philately by prominent philatelic auction houses, stamp collectors and philatelists. Stamps and covers formerly owned by Shenfield in his collection are frequently identified in the catalogues of major philatelic auction houses due to his prominence in the field.\n\nShenfield died in 1974 and is buried in Woodlawn Cemetery (Bronx, New York), New York. After his death, Shenfield's surviving sons, James Philip Shenfield and Lawrence Walker Shenfield, sold Shenfield's collection of Confederate stamps and philatelic covers at public auction through H.R. Harmer in New York City. Each year, Shenfield's essay on Confederate postal usage and routes is included in the introduction to Confederate States stamps in the Scott catalogue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38563508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38563508", "title": "Leon Yehuda Recanati", "text": "Leon Yehuda Recanati\n\nLeon Yehuda Recanati (1890–1945) was a Greek-born businessman and Jewish community leader who became a prominent banker and philanthropist in Mandatory Palestine.\n\nLeon Yehuda Recanati was born in 1890 in Thessaloniki. He was a leader in Greece's Jewish community until he immigrated to Mandatory Palestine in 1935. In 1936, he was elected as the representative of the Greek Jewish community to the World Jewish Congress. Recanti's sons, Harry, Daniel, Raphael, and Jacques established the IDB Holding Corporation, one of the largest investment companies in Israel. His sons donated the Leon Recanati Business School at Tel Aviv University in his honor in 1966.\n\nIn 1935, Recanati established the Palestine Discount Bank in Tel Aviv; the institution would later become Israel Discount Bank. In his later years, he became involved in philanthropic endeavors and served as a member of the executive committee of the Society of Friends of the Hebrew University and was the founder and chairman of Banim L'Gvulam, which encouraged the settlement of Sephardic Jews in Palestine. In 1985, Recanati was honored on an Israeli commemorative postage stamp.\n"}
{"id": "10830106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10830106", "title": "Ljubljana Stock Exchange", "text": "Ljubljana Stock Exchange\n\nLjubljana Stock Exchange or LJSE ( ) is a stock exchange located in Ljubljana, Slovenia. It is Slovenia's only stock exchange. The exchange trades shares of Slovenian companies, as well as bonds and commercial papers. The only stockholder of the \"Ljubljana Stock Exchange\" is Zagreb Stock Exchange.\n\nThe core business of the Ljubljana stock exchange is to ensure a secure, efficient and successful operation of the regulated segment of the Slovene capital market, in accordance with the law and other regulations.\n\nLJSE performs the following business activities: \n\nAdditional activities include the services for trading members and listed companies.\n\nThe existing Ljubljana Stock Exchange was established in 1989. However, brokerage in Slovenia has a much longer tradition: the first stock exchange in Ljubljana existed as early as in the period between 1924 and 1942. Unfortunately, during the Second World War the trading on the old exchange was suspended, and after the war also officially banned by a decree by the new communist regime which replaced monarchy in Yugoslavia. Slovenians were thus left without a stock exchange for almost half a century. Then in the 1989 the Ljubljana Stock Exchange was officially established. In the year 1993 LJSE introduced electronic trading on BTS - on complex Stock Exchange Information System three times a week, floor trading still remained on Tuesdays and Thursdays. The new system of electronic information dissemination - SEOnet was launched in year 2002. Three years later LJSE introduced the elite segment of the official market, listing Slovenia's prime companies, and named it Prime Market. In the middle of the year 2008 the first regional road-show of SE Europe, organized by all 8 exchanges from the region, was held in Zagreb. In the same year Vienna Stock Exchange became the new majority owner of the LJSE (it acquired an 83.34% share). Year 2009 was crucial for establishment of \"CEE Stock Exchange Group\" (CEESEG), which at the time comprised the Vienna Stock Exchange and the stock exchanges of Budapest, Ljubljana and Prague. In the year 2010 there were a lot of important events: The SBITOP Index as the first genuine LJSE blue-chip index became a benchmark index, LJSE launched INFO HRAMBA - the new information system for the central storage of regulated information of all issuers on the LJSE, LJSE published the Slovene Capital Market Development Strategy, which had been prepared in cooperation with the capital market participants and was the answer to the changed economic and financial circumstances in the previous two years, LJSE proposed the introduction of 'P accounts' in the third pension pillar, LJSE started trading on the international trading system Xetra® and thus became integrated into the international capital market. As of July 2015 Ljubljana Stock Exchange is owned by Zagreb Stock Exchange. On 22 February 2016, the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, along with the Belgrade Stock Exchange, decided to join SEE Link, and EBRD-sponsored regional network for trading securities.\n\nTrading on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange operates through an electronic order book in the Xetra® trading system. Xetra® trading system was implemented at the Ljubljana Stock Exchange on December 6, 2010. The Slovene capital market is now more easily accessible, internationally comparable and competitive market.\nThe exchange has pre-market sessions from 08:00am to 09:30am and normal trading sessions from 09:30am to 01:00pm on all days of the week except Saturdays, Sundays and holidays declared by the Exchange in advance.\nOn the basis of meeting the LJSE liquidity criteria, securities are traded in the continuous or auction trading methods.\n\nThe two trading methods ensure greater market integrity, improve best-price-forming mechanisms, and enable the Exchange and its members to set up internal controls and thus help identify potential cases of market manipulation.\n\nSBI TOP is the first genuine LJSE blue-chip index and serves as the Slovene capital market benchmark index. It measures the performance of the most liquid and highly capitalized stocks on the LJSE Market. It is designed as a tradable index. Due to the liquidity of the constituents, it is intended to serve as underlying for index-linked financial instruments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15638238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15638238", "title": "Louis Schilders", "text": "Louis Schilders\n\nLouis Schilders is a Belgian engineer and businessman in healthcare ICT.\n\nHe graduated as an electrical engineer at the University of Ghent (Ghent, Belgium) and started his career as systems analyst, project leader and IT consultant working for several companies. He worked as a consultant at the European Commission for four years. In 1994, he founded MediBRIDGE, a medical information exchange platform. He was corporate chief information officer (CIO) of CMPMedica, a division of United Business media. In 2006, he became CEO of Custodix, a company specialized in data protection solutions for eHealth.\n\n"}
{"id": "57538737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57538737", "title": "Manolo Elizalde", "text": "Manolo Elizalde\n\nManuel \"Manolo\" Díaz Elizalde Sr. was a prominent Spanish Filipino businessman. \n\nElizalde was born in Manila to José Joaquín Elizalde and Carmen Díaz Moreau. He was a brother of diplomat Joaquin (\"Mike\"), Juan Miguel, Angel, Federico (\"Fred\") and Carmenchu Elizalde. \n\nDuring the 1920s, he was nicknamed \"Lizz\" Elizalde, playing the clarinet and the saxophone alongside his brother Fred. \n\nHe was married to Mary Cadwallader and among the couple's children was Manuel \"Manda\" Elizalde Jr.\n\nIn 1936, he and his brothers established Elizalde & Company, Inc. after acquiring the major businesses of Ynchausti y Compañía, among them Ynchausti Shipping, Tanduay, YCO Paints and Floor Wax, Rizal Cement, and the Central Azucarera de La Carlota and Central Azucarera de Pilar (now Capiz Sugar Central) sugar refineries. After World War II, Elizalde became president of the company after his brother Mike decided to step down from the position in order to focus on his diplomatic career.\n\nIn 1946, Elizalde and his brothers established Manila Broadcasting Company to acquire the radio stations KZRH and KYRC.\n\nFrom the 1920s to the 1930s, Elizalde was an avid polo player together with his brothers Mike, Juan Miguel and Angel. In January 1937, the Elizalde brothers inaugurated the Los Tamaraos Polo Club in Parañaque after resigning their memberships in the Manila Polo Club in protest to the rejection of the membership application of Manuel Nieto, aide-de-camp of Philippine President Manuel L. Quezon. The Elizalde brothers proposed and seconded Nieto's membership application.\n\nAs a sports patron, he founded the YCO and the original Tanduay basketball teams.\n"}
{"id": "46427075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46427075", "title": "Mary Lee Ware", "text": "Mary Lee Ware\n\nMary Lee Ware, (Jan. 7, 1858 – Jan. 9, 1937) daughter of Elizabeth Cabot (Lee) Ware and Charles Eliot Ware, was born to a wealthy Bostonian family and, with her mother, was the principal sponsor of the Harvard Museum of Natural History's famous Glass Flowers (formally \"The Ware Collection of Blaschka Glass Models of Plants\"). She was an avid student of botany, particularly of the work of George Lincoln Goodale; a close friend and sponsor of Leopold and Rudolf Blaschka, creators of the Glass Flowers; and a leading philanthropist and farmer of West Rindge, New Hampshire and Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nBorn into a respected family in the New Hampshire town of Rindge, specifically to naturalist and Harvard Medical School professor Dr. Charles Eliot Ware (\"a leading physician in Boston\") and his wife Elizabeth in 1858, Mary Lee Ware was an avid nature-lover and lived according to the precept \"It is more blessed to give than to receive.\" Taken to Italy as a young girl, Mary was dazzled by the many sights (such as Rome and Florence) there, which served to enhance her love of beautiful things. Beauty that ranged from the picturesque landscape to the language which she quickly excelled, to the art for which the country is famous. This is no surprise given that her father, Dr. Charles Ware (Harvard class of 1834), while not a botanist himself raised his daughter to love botany with a passion. A love which was fostered by the family farm in Rindge New Hampshire, a place which stood out happily among her childhood memories. Mary eventually (exactly when is unclear given source ambiguity) settled with her parents and possibly brother, Charles Jr. (reports/sources vary regarding his existence, with the bare majority suggesting it) in Boston, 41 Brimmer Street (Back Bay), around 1870; at that time, Mary was 13 years old. She was also, at some point, a student of Radcliffe College and learned under Dr. Goodale - who would become the first director of the Harvard Botanical Museum. In fact, \"Mary Ware, an especially fascinating character, became in many respects a professional naturalist,\" a role which she was later able to utilize by being the patron sponsor of the Glass Flowers, her purpose being to advance the education of women.\n\nThe \"ever-loyal and ever-generous\" Mary Lee Ware and her mother were drawn into the Glass Flowers enterprise in 1886 when her former teacher, Professor George Goodale, approached them with his idea to populate the new Botanical Museum (of which he was the first director) with Blaschka glass specimens. Being independently wealthy and (already) liberal benefactors of Harvard's botany department, Mary convinced her mother to agree to underwrite the 200 mark consignment, but this was done anonymously at first (and would remain so until 1888). The uncannily lifelike models arrived in the spring of 1887 and enchanted the Wares. Then, that same year, Dr. Charles Ware died, thus filling the two women with the desire to provide Harvard with a donation in his memory. Hence, when the official contract was signed between the Mary and her mother, Leopold and Rudolf, and Harvard, the agreement was that the collection would be a memorial to the now deceased Doctor: \"The first Blaschka glass flowers are formally presented to the Botanical Museum as a memorial to Dr. Charles Eliot Ware, Class of 1834, by his widow Elizabeth C. Ware and daughter Mary L. Ware.\" Today, there is a large bronze plaque in the exhibit's center formally dedicating it to the nature-loving Doctor, father, and husband. The initial contract signed dictated that the Blaschkas need only work half-time on the models, thus allowing them to continue their work making glass marine invertebrates. However, in 1890, they and Goodale - acting on behalf of the Wares - signed an updated version that allowed Leopold and Rudolf to work on them (the Glass Flowers) full-time; some sources detail the agreement as a shift from a 3-year contract to a 10-year one, agreed to once Goodale convinced Mary and her mother of the wisdom in doing so. It is also noted by Prof. Goodale in the \"Annual reports of the President and Treasurer of Harvard College 1890-1891\" that the updated contract was partly due to the Blaschkas insisting that it was impossible to craft the botanical models for half the year and the marine ones the other half; \"they said that they must give up either one or the other.\" Furthermore, the report notes that the activity of the Blaschka \"has been greatly increased by their exclusive devotion to a single a single line of work.\" Later, in 1889, Leopold made and gifted a bouquet of glass flowers to the Wares which, at some later date, was given to Harvard and is now part of the Glass Flowers exhibit.\n\nEarly in the making of the Glass Flowers, Mary Lee Ware engaged in correspondence with Professor Goodale regarding the making of the collection, one of which contained a remark of Leopold's regarding the false rumor that secret methods were used in the making of the Glass Flowers: \"Many people think that we have some secret apparatus by which we can squeeze glass suddenly into these forms, but it is not so. We have tact. My son Rudolf has more than I have, because he is my son, and tact increases in every generation. The only way to become a glass modeler of skill, I have often said to people, is to get a good great-grandfather who loved glass.\"\nMiss Ware is also known to have visited the Blaschka home/studio three times, the first in 1899 along with Prof. Goodale, Mrs Goodale and their son Francis. By this time Mary was the sole benefactress of the Blaschkas, as her mother, Elizabeth C. Ware, had died the previous year (1898). During the course of these visits she became very great friends with Rudolf and his wife Frieda, and, on one occasion, Rudolf wrote to Mary L. Ware regarding his vision of how the Flowers should be displayed: \"I think pure white sheets will do best as bestow good light to the whole room. The models will look best either on pure white or a deep velvet-black.\" A preference Harvard evidently agreed with as, to this day, the botanical model are wired down to pure white boards within the original (albeit refurbished) cases.\nRegardless, Mary's second visit was around 1908 and the third on October 3, 1928. This second visit, made after Leopold's death, was related via a letter from Miss Ware to the second director of the Botanical Museum, Professor Oakes Ames. This letter appears to confirm the previous statement of Leopold's regarding his son; Miss Ware writes, \"One change in the character of his work and, consequently in the time necessary to accomplish results since I was last here, is very noteworthy. At that time...he bought most of his glass and was just beginning to make some, and his finish was in paint. Now he himself makes a large part of the glass and all the enamels, which he powders to use as paint.\" This missive to Professor Ames was published in January 9, 1961 by the Harvard University Herbaria - Botanical Museum Leaflets, Harvard University Vol. 19, No. 6 - under the title \"How Were The Glass Flowers Made?\" In addition to funding and visiting, Mary took a fairly active role in the project's progress, going so far as to personally unpack each model and making arrangements for Rudolph's fieldwork in the U.S. and Jamaica – the purpose of such trips being to gather and study various plant specimens before returning to the old style Bohemian lamp-working table at which he (and Leopold) worked.\n\nIt is also known that, in 1898, Mary Lee Ware was made a member of the Committee of Overseers on the Botanic Garden and the Botanic Museum - an addition that was met with pleasure by its members, including Professor Goodale. Indeed, Miss Ware's \"generous gifts of money and time for the advancement of the Department...[were] already known from the previous [Harvard] Annual Reports.\n\nUpon her death in 1937, Miss Ware left a will with assets worth one million dollars, $600,000 of which she bequeathed on charity and education. Of this vast sum, a full half of it (the largest single bequest in her will) was given to Harvard for completion and the upkeep of the Glass Flowers (as well as support Rudolf and Frieda).\n\nAlthough her mother remained in Boston, Mary Lee Ware clearly considered herself a New Hampshirite and apparently maintained the West Rindge family farm of her childhood. However, she is almost always called Miss Mary Lee Ware of Boston; very rarely is Rindge, NH mentioned. Reportedly (per the majority of sources) she was a seasonal resident of both Massachusetts and New Hampshire, spending the summers at the Ware Farm in Rindge while wintering in Boston with her mother. The Ware Farm was sold to Mary's father, Dr. Ware, by a Joseph Davis and Dorestos Armory for $3000 in 1868 – the place having 450 total acres, 21.5 dedicated to pasture land with another 56.5 for cultivation. Housing from two to forty people (mostly hired hands), the place was spared from a massive tornado that, on September 13, 1928, hit West Rindge. Enduring for twenty minutes, the disaster leveled the land and resulted in a $100,000 loss for the town. Thankfully, \"the beautiful Mary Lee Ware estate proper was not damaged,\" yet the estate workers' homes suffered via falling trees. Her estate manager, William S. Cleaves, fled his truck - to the relative safety of his home - in the nick of time, just before a falling tree crushed it. Years earlier, in 1887 and 1898 respectively, the farm saw the death of both Miss Ware's parents, Dr. Charles Eliot and Elizabeth C. Ware, making Mary the sole heiress of the estate. Later, in 1931, the Ware farm was the location of her cousin Cordelia E. Ware's wedding (specifically, Cordelia was Mary L. Ware's first cousin once removed on her father's side - the child of his first cousin John Ware).\n\nUnder Mary Lee Ware's strict but kind jurisdiction the farm blossomed, so to speak, with Miss Ware expanding it to a scale beyond that of what her parents enjoyed. Between 1898 (the year of her mother's death) and 1936 (a year before she died), she wired the entire farm for electricity, built gardens, all-season greenhouses, equipment barns, and a dairy and ice-house, purchased the neighboring Carr Farm and acreage (later the Ruth Morris Farm) which extends Ware Farm to the eastern shore of Pool Pond (approx. 500 acres), established a water system, and maintained a large-scale chicken operation on the acquired Carr Farm. The Farm was known to be \"an outstanding showplace with Jersey cows, poultry, a piggery, sheep, and Irish Settlers, all purebred...in 1911, her three foundation cows and a bull were imported from the Isle of Jersey.\" Her affection for the family and its many non-family residents is illustrated by the fact that, upon her death, Mary's will designated funds to keep the farm and her \"farm family\" together for one full year.\n\nIt is known that, by at least 1913, Miss Ware was a member of the New Hampshire Horticultural Society. The Grange Hall in Rindge was also named after her — the Mary L. Ware Grange Hall — doubtless in tribute to her many agricultural contributions; and, in addition, a Mary L. Ware Park was established in West Rindge. Sadly, in 1957, the Hall was bought and converted into the Ed’s Country Auction House by Mr. Edward Gilman \"Ed\" Stevens. Furthermore, in regards to Miss Ware's agrarian impact, the New Hampshire Farm Bureau's highest award was once the \"Mary Lee Ware Trophy\". Regarding her will, Mary left $25000 to her Boston and West Rindge employees. As to the Ware Farm itself, it was given to \"certain relatives and their children\" but eventually passed out of the family's hands.\n\nHowever, the Ware Farm remains in active use today. \"In 2002 Steve and Beverly Lindell purchased the property, resurrected the Ware Farm name, and have since tended and cherished the property in a manner complimentary to its heritage: original buildings are lovingly preserved; the flower gardens are spellbinding and constantly abuzz with pollinators; horses roam and graze the pastures; it's forest is managed in conservation through the Monadnock Conservancy. The farm presently consists of 230 acres, the majority on the east side of Woodbound Road, matching closely the original Ware Farm footprint.\" Today the farm is the home-base of \"HOOF&CLAW\" - a training and consultation center for dog handling and horsemanship - as well as the home of Blaine Capone, HOOF&CLAW's founder. Mr. Capone, in turn, continues to honor the legacy and philanthropic spirit of Miss Ware, insofar as her deep love of nature went, working with HOOF&CLAW to preserve the environment and inspire solutions to environmental issues.\n\nAs a Philanthropist of many interests, Mary Lee Ware contributed in other many and varied ways to the States of Massachusetts and New Hampshire. However, though \"well known locally in NH and Boston for charitable works, she often kept her donations anonymous from the public.\"\n\nAside from the Glass Flower enterprise, Mary Lee Ware supported Harvard University in other ways, donating four table cases to the Economic Room along with various sums of money for research and preservation purposes, as is evidenced in various Harvard Treasurer's Statements. In addition, she was one of early anthropologist Frederic Ward Putnam of the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology many wealthy donors. Correspondences between her and Putnam reveals that Miss Ware provided a significant amount of money for America’s first preserved archaeological site in 1886: Serpent Mound in Ohio, along with Putnam’s other later archaeological endeavors.\n\nBetween 1928 and her death (1937), Miss Ware sent a short letter to John Templeton Coolidge regarding a set of spurs she found among her cousin Mr. Hall's books. Spurs which, she speculated, were worn by famed historian Francis Parkman during his expedition he \"The Oregon Trail\". The main body of the letter to Mr. Coolidge reads \"The spurs I found among Mr. Hall’s army outfit, labelled “F.P.[”] as you see, and we wondered if by any chance they could have been worn by Mr. Parkman on his “Oregon Trail” journey. It is of course only a guess, but certainly F.P. could only mean Mr. Parkman and Miss Lizzie might have given them to Mr. Hall as a keep-sake. If they were his, possibly your son Jack would like them. If not, you can of course do as you please with them.\" Miss Ware's cousin, this Mr. Hall, is presumed to be Henry Ware Hall seeing as he shared an uncle with Francis Parkman: \"Edward Brooks Hall—the same Hall who had married Mary Lee Ware’s aunt Harriet. So Henry, Francis, and Mary were all first cousins.\" Mary Lee Ware sent the letter to Mr. Coolidge because he was Parkman’s son-in-law. Said letter was recently obtained by the Massachusetts Historical Society.\n\nMary's interest in history and cultural artifacts is further noted by the fact that the first annual meeting of the Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities was held at her 41 Brimmer Street Boston home.\n\nMary L. Ware did at least some work with the Christian Register, helping in the selection of letters in a 1917 edition. Furthermore, from at least 1906 to 1913 she was a member of the Women's Christian Temperance Union, as known by a pair of letters she exchanged during those respective years to Anne Whitney, a reputable Massachusetts poet and sculptor.\n\nMiss Ware attended the first annual meeting of the Woman's National Farm & Garden Association's New England Branch in Boston, and was elected to the position of \"Chairman Executive Committee.\"\n\nMary was a corporate member of the Massachusetts School for Idiotic and Feeble-Minded Youth, along with her cousins Charles E. and Harriet P. Ware of Fitchburg and (possible relative) Mrs. Mary G. Ware of Lancaster.\n\nMary Lee Ware was an officer in the Massachusetts Forestry Association from at least 1906 to 1915, occupying such roles as one of many Vice-Presidents, a member of the Executive Committee along with Ways and Means as well as being the Chairman of the Membership and Publications Committee. As in so many of her roles she was, curiously and again, known as \"Mary Lee Ware of Boston,\" though this could easily be due to her seemingly preferred Rindge residence being outside of Massachusetts.\n\nSimilarly showing her love of the natural world, in 1901–1902 Mary Lee Ware played a pivotal role in the creation of the New Hampshire Rhododendron State Park when, in 1901, subsequent owner Levi Fuller planned to \"lumber off\" the property and would have if not for Mary, who bought it in 1902. Giving it to the Appalachian Mountain Club (AMC) a year later, she signed the deal on the condition that the woodland \"...be held as a reservation properly protected and open to the public...forever.\" The contract also barred cutting down any trees or picking any rhododendron, a promise that has been broken only once due to the 1938 hurricane. The donated land is called \"Old Patch Place,\" remodeled by the AMC as a hostel/clubhouse but has since (1946) come under the protection of the N.H. Division of Parks and Recreation — the system's only designated botanical park. The \"Old Patch Place\" cottage near the park entrance was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.\n\nMiss Ware was a unit chairwoman of the Women's Committee and Council of National Defense in the Granite State, working with the Federal Food Administrator of New Hampshire.\n\nAlso, the Rindge Historical Society Museum's collection of artifacts \"began with the efforts of Mary Lee Ware...a seasonal resident of Rindge. Ms. Ware, around the turn of the twentieth century, took it upon herself to solicit donations of historical items from the town’s residents.\" This collection, today located near the center of Rindge, was once housed at the Ingalls Memorial Library (which would itself later benefit from Mary's generosity). Indeed, in the very first issue of the Rindge Community Newsletter (a volunteer effort by the Rindge Chamber of Commerce), Mary L. Ware was credited with the founding of the Rindge Museum, stating that she asked for the historical donations per \"a large horse-drawn wagon and a few of her hired men.\"\n\nThe circumstances of Mary Lee Ware's death - which took place a few months after the Glass Flowers enterprise ended - is described in a letter addressed to Professor Oakes Ames. On January 5 \"the poor old lady had a heavy stroke which left her almost completely paralyzed. There seemed to be no question whatever but that she could not possibly recover and, four days later, she had another shock which, thank God, carried her peacefully off.\" Having died at her 41 Brimmer Street Boston home at the age of 79, Miss Ware was buried next to her parents at Mt. Auburn Cemetery, her funeral taking place on January 12 at King's Chapel and officiated over by Reverends John and Palfrey Perkins with many notable personages in attendance, including Francis Goodale (Prof. Goodale's son). Acting as an usher at the funeral was a child named Charles E. Ware 3rd, presumably the son of her cousin Charles Eliot Ware of Fitchburg of whom her will designated a favorable sum. Indeed, another letter to Professor Ames states that a letter of condolence should be sent to Charles E. Ware of Fitchburg, furthering the appearance that the two cousins were close. Miss Mary L. Ware's death was, in addition, reportedly taken hard by Rudolf Blaschka, whose own health was beginning to fail (as detailed in another letter to Professor Ames by Mr. Louis C. Bierweiler, former assistant to Professor Louis Agassiz). In addition, a later letter from a solicitor to the Soviet authorities details a pension that Mary Lee Ware set for Rudolf and which continued to Frieda until 1941 - after which Mrs. Blaschka had no income at all.\n\nIt is known that, upon death, Mary's will detailed the donation of her taxidermied bird and animal collection to the Ingalls Memorial Library of Rindge — \"The collection native to this region was donated through the generosity and under the will of Mary Lee Ware. It is quite a wonderful collection and many Rindge residents know of its existence because of school visits.\" She also left them $5000 and, furthermore, was one of the Trustees of and partly responsible for writing the Annual Report of the Library, as she was a signatory of said Report in 1917; this also made her one of the Officers of the Town of Rindge. At some point in life Mary Lee Ware inherited Robert Salmon's \"The British Fleet Forming a Line off Algiers\" painting from her father, Dr. Charles Eliot Ware - though how he acquired it is not known. She bequeathed the painting in 1937 (presumably after her death and per her will) to the Museum of Fine Arts (MFA) in Boston, Massachusetts. Additionally, Miss Ware's will detailed sizable donations to organizations such as the Massachusetts General Hospital, Kentucky's Berea College, and the American Unitarian Association. In addition,\n\nThe independent wealth of Mary L. Ware and her family was owed to the fact that her mother, Elizabeth C. Ware, was a descendant of the wealthy Salem Cabots - a merchant family dating back to the early 1700s.\n\nIn 1900 Miss Ware began a subscription to the Fund for the Encouragement of Mexican and Central American Research, as recorded in a Harvard University Annual Report.\n\nThe rug on the floor of the Edward Hall Library in the First Parish in Cambridge was \"given in memory of Miss Mary Lee Ware, a first cousin of Rev. Edward Hall,\" who presided as Minister from 1882 to 1893.\n\nMary Lee Ware reportedly never owned an automobile - apparently traveling to and from Boston via the train, and by horse and buggy when in Rindge.\n\nMary's relationship with her brother, Charles Ware Jr., is not known. It is known, though, that Charles Jr. also went to Harvard in the 1870s and lived in Boston for a while – marrying in 1881 – before moving to Newton. Why Mary and her mother never involved him (and his wife) in the Glass Flowers enterprise is unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "33239884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33239884", "title": "Nicolas Véron", "text": "Nicolas Véron\n\nNicolas Véron is a French economist. He is a Senior Fellow at Bruegel in Brussels, which he co-founded in 2002-05, and at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington DC, which he joined in 2009. In 2012, he was included in the global 50 Most Influential list of Bloomberg Markets Magazine.\n\nVéron is an alumnus of École Polytechnique and of École nationale supérieure des mines de Paris where he received the Corps des mines training. He was a French civil servant from 1995 to 2000, first in the Prefecture in Lille then as the corporate advisor to Labor Minister Martine Aubry in the Jospin government. In 2000-02 he worked for publicly listed French Internet company MultiMania, later renamed Lycos France, as VP Business Development then Chief Financial Officer. He then cofounded Bruegel together with Jean Pisani-Ferry, starting in 2002. \n\nHis research focuses on banking and financial regulation, including in recent years European Banking union. He has testified before the US Senate, the European Parliament, the UK House of Lords, the Portuguese National Assembly, the Italian Parliament and the German Bundestag.\n\nVéron became an independent board member of the derivatives arm (Global Trade Repository) of DTCC in July 2013. From 2014 to 2016 he was also a member of the Scientific Advisory Board of AMF, France's securities regulator.\n\n"}
{"id": "2326978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326978", "title": "Nominative determinism", "text": "Nominative determinism\n\nNominative determinism is the hypothesis that people tend to gravitate towards areas of work that fit their names. The term was first used in the magazine \"New Scientist\" in 1994, after the magazine's humorous Feedback column noted several studies carried out by researchers with remarkably fitting surnames. These included a book on polar explorations by Daniel Snowman and an article on urology by researchers named Splatt and Weedon. These and other examples led to light-hearted speculation that some sort of psychological effect was at work. Since the term appeared, nominative determinism has been an irregularly recurring topic in \"New Scientist\", as readers continue to submit examples. Nominative determinism differs from the related concept aptronym, and its synonyms aptonym, namephreak, and Perfect Fit Last Name, in that it focusses on causality. \"Aptronym\" merely means the name is fitting, without saying anything about why it has come to fit.\n\nThe idea that people are drawn to professions that fit their name was suggested by psychologist Carl Jung, citing as an example Sigmund Freud who studied pleasure and whose surname means \"joy\". A few recent empirical studies have indicated that certain professions are disproportionately represented by people with appropriate surnames (and sometimes given names), though the methods of these studies have been challenged. One explanation for nominative determinism is \"implicit egotism\", which states that humans have an unconscious preference for things they associate with themselves. An alternative explanation is genetic: a person might be named Smith or Taylor because that was originally their occupation, and they would pass on their genes to their descendants, including an aptitude for activities involving strength in the case of Smith, or dexterity in the case of Taylor.\n\nBefore people could gravitate towards areas of work that matched their names, many people were given names that matched their area of work. The way people are named has changed over time. In pre-urban times people were only known by a single name – for example, the Anglo-Saxon name Beornheard. Single names were chosen for their meaning or given as nicknames. In England it was only after the Norman conquest that surnames were added, although there were a few earlier bynames that were not hereditary, such as Edmund Ironside. Surnames were created to fit the person, mostly from patronyms (e.g., John son of William becomes John Williamson), occupational descriptions (e.g., John Carpenter), character or traits (e.g., John Long), or location (e.g., John from Acton became John Acton). Names were not initially hereditary; only by the mid-14th century did they gradually become so. Surnames relating to trades or craft were the first to become hereditary, as the craft often persisted within the family for generations. The appropriateness of occupational names has decreased over time, because tradesmen did not always follow their fathers: an early example from the 14th century is \"Roger Carpenter the pepperer\".\n\nAnother aspect of naming was the importance attached to the wider meaning contained in a name. In 17th-century England it was believed that choosing a name for a child should be done carefully. Children should live according to the message contained in, or the meaning of their names. In 1652 William Jenkyn, an English clergyman, argued that first names should be \"as a thread tyed about the finger to make us mindful of the errand we came into the world to do for our Master\". In 1623, at a time when Puritan names such as Faith, Fortitude and Grace were appearing for the first time, English historian William Camden wrote that names should be chosen with \"good and gracious significations\", as they might inspire the bearer to good actions. With the rise of the British Empire the English naming system and English surnames spread across large portions of the globe.\n\nBy the beginning of the 20th century, Smith and Taylor were two of the three most frequently occurring English surnames; both were occupational, though few smiths and tailors remained. When a correspondence between a name and an occupation did occur, it became worthy of note. In an 1888 issue of the \"Kentish Note Book\" magazine a list appeared with \"several carriers by the name of Carter; a hosier named Hosegood; an auctioneer named Sales; and a draper named Cuff\". Since then, a variety of terms for the concept of a close relationship between name and occupation have emerged. The term \"aptronym\" is thought to have been coined in the early 20th century by the American newspaper columnist Franklin P. Adams. Linguist Frank Nuessel coined \"aptonym\", without an \"r\", in 1992. Other synonyms include \"euonym\", \"Perfect Fit Last Name\" (PFLN), and \"namephreak\". In literary science a name that particularly suits a character is called a \"charactonym\". Notable authors who frequently used charactonyms as a stylistic technique include Charles Dickens (e.g., Mr. Gradgrind, the tyrannical schoolmaster) and William Shakespeare (e.g., the lost baby Perdita in \"The Winter's Tale\"). Unlike nominative determinism, the concept of aptronym and its synonyms do not say anything about causality, i.e. why the name has come to fit.\n\nBecause of the potentially humorous nature of aptronyms a number of newspapers have collected them. \"San Francisco Chronicle\" columnist Herb Caen reported irregularly on reader-submitted gems, including substitute teacher Mr. Fillin, piano teacher Patience Scales, and the Vatican's spokesman on the evils of rock 'n roll, Cardinal Rapsong. Similarly, the journalist Bob Levey on occasion listed examples sent in by readers of his column in \"The Washington Post\": a food industry consultant named Faith Popcorn, a lieutenant called Sergeant, and a tax accountant called Shelby Goldgrab. Dutch newspaper \"Het Parool\" had an irregularly featured column called \"Nomen est omen\" with Dutch examples. Individual name collectors have also published books of aptronyms. Onomastic scholar R.M. Rennick called for more verification of aptronyms appearing in newspaper columns and books. Lists of aptronyms in science, medicine, and law are more reliable as they tend to be drawn from easily verifiable sources.\n\nNominative determinism, literally \"name-driven outcome\", is the hypothesis that people tend to gravitate towards areas of work which reflect their names. The name fits because people, possibly subconsciously, made themselves fit. Nominative determinism differs from the concept of aptronyms in that it focuses on causality.\n\nThe term has its origin in the \"Feedback\" column of the British magazine \"New Scientist\" in 1994. A series of events raised the suspicion of its editor, John Hoyland, who wrote in the 5 November issue:\n\nFeedback editors John Hoyland and Mike Holderness subsequently adopted the term \"nominative determinism\" as suggested by reader C. R. Cavonius. The term first appeared in the 17 December issue. Even though the magazine tried to ban the topic numerous times over the decades since, readers kept sending in curious examples. These included the U.S. Navy spokesman put up to answer journalists' questions about the Guantanamo Bay detention camp, one Lieutenant Mike Kafka; authors of the book \"The Imperial Animal\" Lionel Tiger and Robin Fox; and the UK Association of Chief Police Officers' spokesman on knife crime, Alfred Hitchcock.\n\nAs used in \"New Scientist\" the term nominative determinism only applies to work. In contributions to other newspapers \"New Scientist\" writers have stuck to this definition, with the exception of editor Roger Highfield in a column in the \"Evening Standard\", in which he included \"key attributes of life\".\n\nPrior to 1994 other terms for the suspected psychological effect were used sporadically. \"Onomastic determinism\" was used as early as 1970 by Roberta Frank. German psychologist Wilhelm Stekel spoke of \"Die Verpflichtung des Namens\" (the obligation of the name) in 1911. Outside of science, \"cognomen syndrome\" was used by playwright Tom Stoppard in his 1972 play \"Jumpers\". In Ancient Rome the predictive power of a person's name was captured by the Latin proverb \"nomen est omen\", meaning the name is a sign. This saying is still in use today in English and other languages such as French, German, Italian, Dutch, and Slovenian.\n\n\"New Scientist\" coined the term \"nominative contradeterminism\" for people who move away from their name, creating a contradiction between name and occupation. Examples include Andrew Waterhouse, a professor of wine, would-be doctor Thomas Edward Kill, who subsequently changed his name to Jirgensohn, and the Archbishop of Manila, Cardinal Sin. The synonym \"inaptronym\" is also sometimes used.\n\nThe first scientists to discuss the concept that names had a determining effect were early 20th-century German psychologists. Wilhelm Stekel spoke of the \"obligation of the name\" in the context of compulsive behaviour and choice of occupation; Karl Abraham wrote that the determining power of names might be partially caused by inheriting a trait from an ancestor who was given a fitting name. He made the further inference that families with fitting names might then try to live up to their names in some way. In 1952 Carl Jung referred to Stekel's work in his theory of synchronicity (events without causal relationship that yet seem to be meaningfully related):\n\nJung listed striking instances among psychologists—including himself: \"Herr Freud (Joy) champions the pleasure principle, Herr Adler (Eagle) the will to power, Herr Jung (Young) the idea of rebirth ...\"\n\nIn 1975 psychologist Lawrence Casler called for empirical research into the relative frequencies of career-appropriate names to establish if there is an effect at work or whether we are being \"seduced by Lady Luck\". He proposed three possible explanations for nominative determinism: one's self-image and self-expectation being internally influenced by one's name; the name acting as a social stimulus, creating expectations in others that are then communicated to the individual; and genetics – attributes suited to a particular career being passed down the generations alongside the appropriate occupational surname.\n\nIn 2002 the researchers Pelham, Mirenberg, and Jones explored Casler's first explanation, arguing that people have a basic desire to feel good about themselves and behave according to that desire. These automatic positive associations would influence feelings about almost anything associated with the self. Given the \"mere ownership effect\", which states that people like things more if they own them, the researchers theorised that people would develop an affection for objects and concepts that are associated with the self, such as their name. They called this unconscious power \"implicit egotism\". Uri Simonsohn suggested that implicit egotism only applies to cases where people are nearly indifferent between options, and therefore it would not apply to major decisions such as career choices. Low-stakes decisions such as choosing a charity would show an effect. Raymond Smeets theorised that if implicit egotism stems from a positive evaluation of the self, then people with low self-esteem would not gravitate towards choices associated with the self, but possibly away from them. A lab experiment confirmed this.\n\nThose with fitting names give differing accounts of the effect of their name on their career choices. Igor Judge, former Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, said he has no recollection of anyone commenting on his destined profession when he was a child, adding \"I'm absolutely convinced in my case it is entirely coincidental and I can't think of any evidence in my life that suggests otherwise.\" James Counsell on the other hand, having chosen a career in law just like his father, his sibling, and two distant relatives, reported having been spurred on to join the bar from an early age and he cannot remember ever wanting to do anything else. Sue Yoo, an American lawyer, said that when she was younger people urged her to become a lawyer because of her name, which she thinks may have helped her decision. Weather reporter Storm Field was not sure about the influence of his name; his father, also a weather reporter, was his driving force. Psychology professor Lewis Lipsitt, a lifelong collector of aptronyms, was lecturing about nominative determinism in class when a student pointed out that Lipsitt himself was subject to the effect since he studied babies' sucking behaviour. Lipsitt said \"That had never occurred to me.\" Church of England vicar Reverend Michael Vickers, who denied being a Vickers had anything to do with him becoming a vicar, suggesting instead that in some cases \"perhaps people are actually escaping from their name, rather than moving towards their job\".\n\nWhile reports by owners of fitting names are of interest, some scientists have questioned their value in deciding whether nominative determinism is a real effect. Instead, they argue that the claim that a name affects life decisions is an extraordinary one that requires extraordinary evidence. To select only those cases that seem to give evidence for nominative determinism is to ignore those that do not. Analysis of large numbers of names is therefore needed. In 2002 Pelham, Mirenberg, and Jones analysed various databases containing first names, surnames, occupations, cities and states. In one study they concluded that people named Dennis gravitate towards dentistry. They did this by retrieving the number of dentists called Dennis (482) from a database of US dentists. They then used the 1990 Census to find out which male first name was the next most popular after Dennis: Walter. The likelihood of a US male being called Dennis was 0.415% and the likelihood of a US male being called Walter was 0.416%. The researchers then retrieved the number of dentists called Walter (257). Comparing the relative frequencies of Dennis and Walter led them to their conclusion that the name Dennis is over-represented in dentistry. However, in 2011, Uri Simonsohn published a paper in which he criticized Pelham \"et al.\" for not considering confounding factors and reported on how the popularity of Dennis and Walter as baby names has varied over the decades. Given Walter was a relatively old-fashioned name it was far more likely for Pelham \"et al.\" to find people named Dennis to have any job, not just that of dentist, and people named Walter to be retired. Simonsohn did indeed find a disproportionally high number of Dennis lawyers compared to Walter lawyers.\n\nAware of Simonsohn's critical analyses of their earlier methods, Pelham and Mauricio published a new study in 2015, describing how they now controlled for gender, ethnicity, and education confounds. In one study they looked at census data and concluded that men disproportionately worked in eleven occupations whose titles matched their surnames, for example, baker, carpenter, and farmer.\n\nIn 2009 Michalos reported the results of an analysis of the occurrences of people with the surname Counsell registered as independent barristers in England and Wales versus those with the name in England and Wales as whole. Given the low frequency of the name in England and Wales as a whole he expected to find no one registered, but three barristers named Counsell were found.\n\nIn 2015 researchers Limb, Limb, Limb and Limb published a paper on their study into the effect of surnames on medical specialisation. They looked at 313,445 entries in the medical register from the General Medical Council, and identified surnames that were apt for the speciality, for example, Limb for an orthopaedic surgeon, and Doctor for medicine in general. They found that the frequency of names relevant to medicine and to subspecialties was much greater than expected by chance. Specialties that had the largest proportion of names specifically relevant to that specialty were those for which the English language has provided a wide range of alternative terms for the same anatomical parts (or functions thereof). Specifically, these were genitourinary medicine (e.g., Hardwick and Woodcock) and urology (e.g., Burns, Cox, Ball). Neurologists had names relevant to medicine in general, but far fewer had names directly relevant to their specialty (1 in every 302). Limb, Limb, Limb and Limb did not report on looking for any confounding variables. In 2010 Abel came to a similar conclusion. In one study he compared doctors and lawyers whose first or last names began with three-letter combinations representative of their professions, for example, \"doc\", \"law\", and likewise found a significant relationship between name and profession. Abel also found that the initial letters of physicians' last names were significantly related to their subspecialty. For example, Raymonds were more likely to be radiologists than dermatologists. Two separate studies by Krajick and Neimi in 2005, both analysing large samples of names of scientists, showed 1.35% of geologists having names referring to their field, and in political science, 1.26%.\n\nAs for Casler's third possible explanation for nominative determinism, genetics, researchers Voracek, Rieder, Stieger, and Swami found some evidence for it in 2015. They reported that today's Smiths still tend to have the physical capabilities of their ancestors who were smiths. People called Smith reported above-average aptitude for strength-related activities. A similar aptitude for dexterity-related activities among people with the surname Tailor, or equivalent spellings thereof, was found, but it was not statistically significant. In the researchers' view a genetic-social hypothesis appears more viable than the hypothesis of implicit egotism effects.\n\n"}
{"id": "51847585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51847585", "title": "Offshoring as a service", "text": "Offshoring as a service\n\nOffshoring as a service (OaaS) is a business model in which the offshore office is not owned by the entity itself, instead it is outsourced to a vendor. The concept of offshoring is not new; however, in the past, some companies have tried to open their own offshore offices. The OaaS model leans towards utilizing a team or company which specializes in offshoring work and uses them on a contractual basis as a part of their own team.\n\nOffshoring provides several benefits to medium and small scale businesses by reducing operational costs and providing capability to sustain downturns in economic cycles.\n\nIt is crucial for companies to either invest in a robust management structure in offshore or find a trusted partner to effectively leverage offshore teams. \nOffshoring provides several benefits, for example:\n\nOffshoring can have its own challenges like communication and cultural issues, high turnover rate, lack of effective management, physical proximity, etc. \nIt is crucial for companies to either invest in a robust management structure in offshore or find a trusted partner to effectively leverage offshore teams. \nChoose a company that:\n"}
{"id": "54004770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54004770", "title": "Ohad Elhelo", "text": "Ohad Elhelo\n\nOhad Elhelo (Hebrew: אוהד אלחלו) is an Israeli social entrepreneur and public speaker. In 2014, Elhelo founded Our Generation Speaks and has since served as Executive Director.\n\nFollowing the completion of his service in the Israel Defense Forces as an intelligence officer, Elhelo moved to Boston to begin his studies at Brandeis University as a Sylvia and Joseph Slifka Israeli Coexistence Scholar. In 2016, he received his Bachelor’s degree in Economics and continued his studies at the Brandeis International Business School, working towards a Master’s degree in International Economics and Finance. He received his Master’s degree in May 2017.\n\nWhile a junior in college, Elhelo founded Our Generation Speaks (OGS). OGS is a fellowship program and startup incubator whose mіѕѕіоn іѕ to bring together young Israeli and Palestinian leaders through entrepreneurship. In 2016, he initiated partnerships between OGS and the Heller School for Social Policy and Management and MassChallenge to launch the fellowship program. To date, the venture has raised nearly $4 million.\n\nFor his work pertaining to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, he has been featured as a speaker at universities, synagogues, and in public forums across the United States.\n"}
{"id": "26828049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26828049", "title": "Ozii Obiyo", "text": "Ozii Obiyo\n\nOzii Obiyo (born January 23, 1985) is a Nigerian-American entrepreneur from Arlington, Texas. As a promise to his brother Chuki Obiyo, when they were both students at the University of Texas at Austin, he started the first online African Radio show in Austin, Texas on KVRX called African Extravaganza. Started in 2005, the show showcased a variety of African artists representing different genres and cultures, from Fela Kuti and his Afrobeat to Angelique Kidjo and her Afropop. The fusion of cultures on his show was an experience that Ozii coined as \"Afro-fantastic\". The radio show led to AfroFantasticTV, a TV show that interviewed students and small business owners on the streets of Austin about African culture through humor. The TV show, broadcast on K09VR, featured Texas business owners discussing how different cultural aspects of Sub-Saharan Africa connected to the Keep Austin Weird business campaign; in one episode, the show featured Mark Cuban, owner of the Dallas Mavericks. As of March 2010, Ozii, through Mediasify, LLC is producing web TV shows, videos, and press releases for business owners.\n"}
{"id": "52009548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52009548", "title": "Park Kun-bae", "text": "Park Kun-bae\n\nPark Kun-bae (; born October 25, 1948) served as President of the Boy Scouts of Korea, and as a member of the World Scout Committee.\n\nIn 1999, Park was awarded the 277th \"Bronze Wolf\", the only distinction of the World Organization of the Scout Movement, awarded by the World Scout Committee for exceptional services to world Scouting, as well as the highest distinction of the Scout Association of Japan, the Golden Pheasant Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "35904819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35904819", "title": "Pay without Performance", "text": "Pay without Performance\n\nPay without Performance: The Unfulfilled Promise of Executive Compensation is a 2004 book by professors of law Lucian Bebchuk and Jesse Fried on the power of corporate executives in the United States to influence their own pay and of the structural defects in corporate governance that grant them this power.\n\nThe book has been praised by mutual fund founder John C. Bogle, Nobel Laureate in Economics Joseph Stiglitz, the \"Washington Post\" and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "58812807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58812807", "title": "Richard Mortimer", "text": "Richard Mortimer\n\nRichard Mortimer (April 24, 1852 – March 15, 1918) was an American real estate investor and society leader during the Gilded Age.\n\nMortimer was born in New York City on April 24, 1852. He was the son of William Yates Mortimer (1824–1891) of New York and Anna Elizabeth (née Thorpe) Mortimer (1829–1905) of Albany. His siblings included Minnie Mortimer and Wilfred Mortimer, both of whom died young. His younger brother, Stanley Yates Mortimer, was married to Elizabeth Livingston Hall, the second daughter of socialite, banker, and merchant, Valentine Hall Jr.\n\nHis paternal grandparents, of which his father was the only son, were Harriette Cordelia (née Thompson) Mortimer and Richard Mortimer, a Cleckheaton, Yorkshire, England born merchant who came to America in 1816 and became incredibly wealthy. His grandfather was the brother-in-law of William Yates, a large woolen manufacturer. Upon his paternal grandfathers death in 1882, he inherited a large fortune. His maternal grandfather was Aaron Thorpe of Albany, New York.\n\nAfter receiving an education in Germany, he returned to New York at the age of 20 to take over management of his families estate, which was founded by his grandfather (including the first Mortimer Building on Broadway and held the early offices of the American Institute of Architects) and greatly expanded by his father, including the construction of the Mortimer Building which was completed in 1885. Shortly after his death, the New York Stock Exchange acquired the Mortimer Building for $745,000 in December 1918. The Mortimer families real estate holdings were quite extensive, but smaller than the Astors, Goelets, and only a few other families.\n\nIn 1892, Mortimer and his wife Eleanor were included in Ward McAllister's \"Four Hundred\", purported to be an index of New York's best families, published in \"The New York Times\". Conveniently, 400 was the number of people that could fit into Mrs. Astor's ballroom. Mortimer, a member of the Tuxedo Club, Metropolitan Club, Knickerbocker Club, Union Club, City Club, Racquet Club, Coaching Club, Riding Club and Westminster Kennel Club, wore a cravat that covered his throat with \"a diamond stickpin so big that his friends called him \"Flashlight Dick.\" \n\nThe Mortimers, along with the Lorillards, are considered among the founding families of Tuxedo Park, New York. Their home in Tuxedo was known as Mortemar, a \"turreted four-story mansion.\" Construction on Mortemar, which was designed by Richard Howland Hunt of Hunt & Hunt, began in the 1890s and continued for 10 years, getting larger and larger.\n\nOn April 26, 1886, Mortimer was married to Eleanor Jay Chapman (1864–1929), a direct descendant of John Jay, the first Chief Justice of the United States. Eleanor was the sister of John Jay Chapman (husband to Elizabeth Astor Winthrop Chanler), and the daughter of Eleanor (née Jay) Chapman (daughter of John Jay, the U.S. Minister to Austria-Hungary under Grant) and Henry Grafton Chapman Jr. (son of abolitionist Maria Weston Chapman), the president of the New York Stock Exchange. Together, they had a townhouse at 382 Fifth Avenue and were the parents of:\n\n\nMortimer died on March 15, 1918 in Palm Beach, Florida, where he had gone for his health. He was buried at St. Mary's Church Cemetery in Tuxedo Park, New York. His entire estate was left to his widow, Eleanor, who died at her home, 555 Park Avenue, after several months illness, in December 1929.\n\nThrough his daughter Mary, he was the grandfather of Richard Mortimer Furlaud (1923–2018), the president and C.E.O. of Squibb Beech-Nut (which became Bristol-Myers Squibb); and Maxime Jay Furlaud (1925–1999).\n\nThrough his son Stanley, he was the grandfather of Stanley G. Mortimer, Jr. (1913–1999), who was married to Babe Paley, and then Kathleen Harriman; Henry Tilford Mortimer (1916–1993), Richard Mortimer, Eve Mortimer (1918–2007), who married Clarence Pell, Jr., and later Lewis Cass Ledyard III; Katharine Mortimer (1923–2003), who married three times (including to Francis Xavier Shields and becoming grandmother of actress Brooke Shields); and John Jay Mortimer (1935–2013), a prominent financier.\n\nThrough his daughter Wilfreda, he was the grandfather of John Mortimer Rutherford (1913–1966); Jay Rutherford (1916–2005); and Nathaniel Frothingham (1927–2001).\n\n"}
{"id": "901520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=901520", "title": "Roto", "text": "Roto\n\nRoto, f. rota, (literally \"broken\") is a term used to refer to Chilean people and in particular to the common Chilean. In Chile from the start of the 20th century it was applied with a negative classist connotation to poor city-dwellers. It is also used contemptuously in other Spanish-speaking countries, especially Bolivia and Peru, to refer to Chileans in a derogatory manner. Otherwise, despite its defects, the roto is also considered a figure of national identity and pride in Chile.\n\nThe term \"roto\" has been used in Peru since the times of the Spanish conquest, when Diego de Almagro's disappointed troops returned to Cuzco (after a failed gold-seeking expedition in Chile) with their torn clothes, due to the extensive and laborious passage on foot through the Atacama desert.\n\nThis term became more used after the Chilean campaigns against the Peru-Bolivian Confederation in 1839 —Chilean troops defeated the confederation at the Battle of Yungay on 20 January 1839. In Chile tributes were paid to the victors of Yungay and, in a gesture of recognition, 20 January was declared the (in Spanish; \"Day of the Chilean Roto\")— and the War of the Pacific (1879–84).\n\nThe figure of the \"Chilean Roto\" is commemorated by very diverse organisations and actors such as the Chilean Army, ultra-nationalist activists, the Communist Party and local organisations of ordinary citizens. The Army has a particular appreciation to the figure which was regarded as the main hero –a collective and anonymous hero- of some of the most crucial battles in the war against Bolivia and Peru.\nIn this context, the webpage of the Chilean Army states:\n\nThe patriotism, bravery and heroism was embodied in the Chilean roto, who represents the ordinary man that left all to fight for its country. This was the one who fought in Yungay and characterised himself by his fierceness and determination.\n\n"}
{"id": "49001047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49001047", "title": "Siemens family", "text": "Siemens family\n\nSiemens is the name of a family of German technology and telecommunications industrialists, founders and to the present day largest shareholders of Siemens AG. The family have a wealth of over €8billion, making them the 5th richest family in Germany, according to Handelsblatt \n\nThe Siemens family was first documented in 1384 with Henning Symons, a farmer of the Free imperial city of Goslar in Lower Saxony, Germany. The family tree begins with \"Ananias Siemens\" (ca 1538-1591), a citizen, brewer and owner of an oil mill at Goslar, belonging to the Shoemaker's Guild, as his ancestors have been shoemakers.\n\nHis grandson Hans (1628–94), speaker of the Merchant's Guild and commander of the town's vigilance committee, built the Siemens House at Goslar in 1692. It is still owned by the family and houses their private archives and an exhibition on the family history. The Siemens family provided numerous members to the Goslar city council as well as four mayors, the last being Johann Georg (1748–1807).\n\nThe most important branches of the Goslar family (there are also other families with the same surname in Northern Germany) go back to the farmer Christian Ferdinand Siemens (1787–1840). His sons Werner Siemens (since 1888 \"von\" Siemens), (Carl) Wilhelm Siemens (known as \"Sir William Siemens\"), Hans Siemens, Friedrich Siemens and Carl (Heinrich) von Siemens became engineers and entrepreneurs.\n\nWerner Siemens, a former artillery and engineering officer in the Prussian army, invented a telegraph that used a needle to point to the right letter, instead of using Morse code. Based on this invention, he founded the company \"Telegraphen-Bauanstalt von Siemens & Halske\" on 1 October 1847, with the company taking occupation of its workshop on 12 October. His business partner Johann Georg Halske, a master mechanic, was particularly involved in the construction and design of electrical equipment such as the press which enabled wires to be insulated with a seamless coat of gutta-percha, the pointer telegraph, the morse telegraph and measuring instruments. The company was internationalised soon after its founding. One brother of Werner represented him in England (Sir William Siemens) and another in St.Petersburg, Russia (Carl von Siemens), each earning recognition. In 1867 Mr Halske withdrew from the company because his more conservative views on company policy diverged from those of the rather venturous Siemens brothers.\n\nIn 1848, the company built the first long-distance telegraph line in Europe; 500 km from Berlin to Frankfurt am Main. In the 1850s, the company was involved in building long distance telegraph networks in Russia. In 1867, Siemens completed the monumental Indo-European (Calcutta to London) telegraph line and in 1870 a transatlantic communications cable. In 1857, Werner von Siemens described the countercurrent exchange and in 1867 a dynamo without permanent magnets. A similar system was also independently invented by Charles Wheatstone, but Siemens became the first company to build such devices. In 1881, a Siemens AC Alternator driven by a watermill was used to power the world's first electric street lighting in the town of Godalming, United Kingdom. The company continued to grow and diversified into electric trains and light bulbs. In 1887 it opened its first office in Japan. In 1890, the founder retired and left running the company to his brother Carl and sons Arnold and Wilhelm.\n\nIn 1888, Werner Siemens received hereditary ennoblement as \"von\" Siemens by Frederick III, German Emperor. His brother William had been knighted – becoming Sir William – by Queen Victoria a few months before his death in 1883. The brother Carl in St. Petersburg was ennobled by Tsar Nicholas II in 1895. Werner's cousin and father-in-law, Carl Georg Siemens (1809–1885), a professor of technology at the University of Hohenheim, received personal ennoblement by the King of Württemberg. Werner's nephew Georg, co-founder of Deutsche Bank, was ennobled by Wilhelm II, German Emperor, in 1899.\n\nSiemens & Halske (S & H) was incorporated in 1897, and then merged parts of its activities with Schuckert & Co., Nuremberg in 1903 to become Siemens-Schuckert. In 1919, S & H and two other companies jointly formed the Osram lightbulb company. During the 1920s and 1930s, S & H started to manufacture radios, television sets, and electron microscopes. In 1932, (Erlangen), Phönix AG (Rudolstadt) and Siemens-Reiniger-Veifa mbH (Berlin) merged to form the Siemens-Reiniger-Werke AG (SRW), a producer of medical technology and the third of the so-called \"parent companies\" that Ernst von Siemens decided in 1966 to merge to form the present-day Siemens AG, which is one of the largest electro-technological firms in the world. The company, during all its stages from Siemens & Halske AG, Siemens-Schuckertwerke AG and Siemens-Reiniger-Werke AG until its merger to Siemens AG in 1966, has always been led by subsequent generations of the founder's family, at first by Werner's brother Carl, then by Werner's sons Arnold, Wilhelm and Carl Friedrich, later by his grandsons Hermann and Ernst, and until 1981 by his great-grandson Peter von Siemens.\n\nToday the descendants of Werner and Carl von Siemens have a minority ownership of 6.9% (by comparison: the Ford family controls the Ford Motor Company with a share of 2%), thus still being the largest single shareholder. Based on a market cap of €112billion, the Siemens family holds €7,7 billion worth of common stock in the company and received €201million in dividends in 2016. Considerable parts of this share have been endowed to charitable trusts controlled by family members. The family keeps a seat in the Siemens Supervisory Board and is said to take influence in the background. Until 1981, the chairman of the Supervisory Board has always been a member of the family. The \"von Siemens\" are said to return to the chairmanship in the future should necessity require it or an eligible candidate be ready to run. The clan's principal aim has always been to guarantee its 169 years old company independence, stability and solid growth.\n\n\nGenerations 1-9\n\nGenerations 7–12\n\n(*) Leading function at \"Siemens & Halske\", \"Siemens Brothers & Co\" and/or Siemens AG.\n"}
{"id": "55573894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55573894", "title": "Social studies of marketing", "text": "Social studies of marketing\n\nThe social study of marketing is an interdisciplinary area of social science. It combines perspectives from anthropology, economic sociology, science and technology studies, and cultural studies to study consumption. Work in the area emphasizes the social and cultural dimensions of marketing practices but focuses also on technical and historical issues that have shaped contemporary consumer markets. Its emergence follows similar developments in social studies of finance. But it is also seen as response to mainstream marketing management research which focuses on marketing as a series of tools and techniques devoid of social interactions.\n\nThe term \"social studies of marketing\" was first used to refer to a body of marketing theories by the economic sociologist Fabian Muniesa in his book Provoked Economy. He writes: \n'The emerging field of the social studies of marketing ... can be defined as having a shared interest in how specialties such as marketing, market research, branding and advertising shape (purposeful, most of the time) the things they target – specifically consumers. ... Of course, this does not mean that consumers do not exist and that marketing is a fiction' (2014: 32). \n\nTheoretically, the main discussions in the area centre on questions of agency and representation. Dealing with questions of agency, and informed by actor–network theory, many discussion explore the ways that seemingly trivial material objects such as shopping bags, carts and trolleys and retail displays fundamentally shape how people consume. Accepting that these objects can influence what people buy has led researchers to question dominant views of consumers as sovereign decision makers that are more typical in studies of consumer markets. Dealing with representation, work in the area argues that the main task of marketing is to describe markets. The notion of performativity has emerged as a key concept here. It tells us that marketing practices which supposedly measure consumer behaviours can also be said to produce them. This has led the area to engage in philosophical discussions in particular critical realism and social constructionism. The latter suggests that all reality – including consumer behaviour – is made up or constructed through representations. They former, says that there is an underlying real world, even if marketers base their decisions only on limited representation of that real world.\n\nAuthors who have contributed to this area are predominantly based on Europe and North America. They include prominent sociologists such as Michel Callon and business researchers such as Araujo; Zwick; Pollock; Mason; and Schwartzkopf.\n"}
{"id": "775067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=775067", "title": "Sports agent", "text": "Sports agent\n\nA sports agent is a legal representative (hence agent) for professional sports figures such as athletes and coaches. They procure and negotiate employment and endorsement contracts for the athlete or coach whom they represent.\nBecause of the unique characteristics of the sports industry, sports agents are responsible for communications with team owners, managers, and other individuals. Also, they are responsible for making recommendations in regard . In addition to finding income sources, agents often handle public relations matters for their clients. In some large sports agencies, such as IMG, Creative Artists Agency, Roc Nation Sports and Octagon, agents deal with all aspects of a client's finances, from investment to filing taxes.\n\nSports agents may be relied upon by their clients for guidance in all business aspects, and sometimes even more broadly. For example, hockey agents start recruiting clients as young as 15, allowing the agent to guide the athlete's career before the NHL draft, which happens usually at 18 years of age.\n\nDue to the length and complexity of contracts, many sports agents are lawyers or have a background in contract law. Agents are expected to be knowledgeable about finance, business management, and financial and risk analysis, as well as sports. It is important for a sports agent to follow trends in sports. Other skills an agent must possess are excellent communication and negotiation skills. Agents must be highly motivated, willing to work long hours, and capable of multitasking. It is very common for agents to be in negotiations on behalf of several clients at one time.\n\nSome agents are part of large companies, and some are on their own. The number of clients an individual agent can handle and how many clients his or her employing agency can handle in total are interdependent variables.\n\nBefore the 1990s, most football players did not use agents. In some cases, they used their fathers as agents. Because of most parents' naivete about the football business, these young footballers were often given less-than-stellar contracts by football clubs, which yielded lower salaries than they thought they deserved. In Sweden, there were only three licensed agents in 1995. As of 2002, there were 33. According to FIFA, there were 5,187 licensed association football agents worldwide, with 600 agents in Italy alone. Since 2001, agents have not been licensed by FIFA. Instead, agents are now licensed directly by each association.\n\nSports agents generally receive between 4 and 10% of the athlete's playing contract, and 10 to 20% of the athlete's endorsement contract, although these figures vary. NFL agents are not permitted to receive more than 3%, and NBA agents not more than 4%, of their client's playing contracts.\n\nThe popularity of television shows such as \"Entourage\", which stars a talent agent named Ari Gold, and \"Arliss\", have helped glamorize the profession. Prior to that, movies such as \"Jerry Maguire\", \"Two for the Money\", and \"Any Given Sunday\" depicted sports agents. In England, ITV's \"Footballers' Wives\" put a new spin on sports agents by casting a no-holds-barred female agent Hazel Bailey. The television show \"Ballers\", which started in 2015, also shows a strong depiction of sports agents.\n\nDue to the popularity of these works, there has been increase of attention in the profession. Former Prime Minister Tony Blair's son decided to become a football agent.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere have been some efforts to transform the sports agency business from an individual, entrepreneurial business, to more of a corporate structure. These experiments met with varying degrees of longevity and success.\n\nSome sports agency firms were once prominent, but are now gone or reorganized:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20008503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20008503", "title": "Swedish Standard Industrial Classification", "text": "Swedish Standard Industrial Classification\n\nThe Swedish Standard Industrial Classification, commonly referred to as SNI, is a Swedish industry standard economic classification system, consisting of a hierarchy of codes that are up to 6-digits long. The most recent version of the SNI standard is SNI 2007, which corresponds to NACE Revision 2.\n\nThe SNI standard is modeled on the Statistical Classification of Economic Activities in the European Community, commonly referred to as NACE. The SNI standard is maintained by Statistics Sweden (also known as SCB), a Swedish government office.\n\n"}
{"id": "38450879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38450879", "title": "Valuation using the Market Penetration Model", "text": "Valuation using the Market Penetration Model\n\nValuation using the Market Penetration Model (MPM) or the growth potential of a company is a method of estimating the value of a company by calculating the depth of its market penetration as evidenced by its customer base and industry niche.\n\nThe process consists of:\n\n\nThe Market Penetration Model focuses on the synergy and opportunities for fast growth between the target company and the acquiring company. It prioritises ability to exploit future customer opportunities over previous financial performance.\n\nMany of the web 2.0 start up successes are valued using this method, due to the perceived value of customer attention over past profit.\n\nMPM has some advantages over other valuation methods:\n\n\nThe main criticisms can be summarised as:\n\n\nFacebook's purchase of Instagram was based on MPM. Instagram was a relatively small company, employing 13 programmers and was just two years old at the time of the sale. It had no revenue, but was initially valued at $1 billion on account of it highly desirable customer base (social media fanatics, smart phone users) and its attractive industry niche (smart phone space).\n\nSeveral other high-profile tech companies have had a valuation based on MPM including: Google's purchase of Snapseed and Money Supermarket's purchase of MoneySavingExpert.com ($120million).\n"}
{"id": "27591323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27591323", "title": "Victoria Barnsley", "text": "Victoria Barnsley\n\nVictoria Barnsley OBE (born 4 March 1954) is a British businesswoman and entrepreneur. In 1984 she co-founded the publishing house Fourth Estate. In 2000 the company was acquired by HarperCollins Publishers, a subsidiary of News Corporation, when Barnsley was made CEO and Publisher of HarperCollins UK. In 2008 she was promoted to CEO and Publisher of HarperCollins UK and International, a position she remained in until July 2013. While at HarperCollins, she helped to develop its digital and international content business.\n\nBarnsley has held various high-profile industry roles including President of the Publishers Association and Chair of World Book Day. She also represented the publishing sector on the Creative Industries Council. In addition to literature Barnsley has an extensive interest in the visual arts and is a former trustee of both Tate and The National Gallery. At Tate she chaired the Tate Britain Council and remains a trustee of the Tate Foundation and a director of Tate Enterprises Ltd.\n\nBarnsley has a BA in English Literature from U.C.L. and an MA from the University of York. She was made a Fellow of U.C.L. in 2005, and was appointed an OBE for services to publishing in the 2009 New Years Honours List.\n\nBarnsley is the daughter of Thomas E. Barnsley, who was also appointed an OBE and his wife Margaret Gwyneth Barnsley (née Llewellin). Since 1992 she has been married to The Hon. Nicholas Howard, son of the cross-bench life peer George Howard, Baron Howard of Henderskelfe. They have one daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "165266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165266", "title": "Weighted average cost of capital", "text": "Weighted average cost of capital\n\nThe weighted average cost of capital (WACC) is the rate that a company is expected to pay on average to all its security holders to finance its assets. The WACC is commonly referred to as the firm's cost of capital. Importantly, it is dictated by the external market and not by management. The WACC represents the minimum return that a company must earn on an existing asset base to satisfy its creditors, owners, and other providers of capital, or they will invest elsewhere.\n\nCompanies raise money from a number of sources: common stock, preferred stock, straight debt, convertible debt, exchangeable debt, warrants, options, pension liabilities, executive stock options, governmental subsidies, and so on. Different securities, which represent different sources of finance, are expected to generate different returns. The WACC is calculated taking into account the relative weights of each component of the capital structure. The more complex the company's capital structure, the more laborious it is to calculate the WACC.\n\nCompanies can use WACC to see if the investment projects available to them are worthwhile to undertake.\n\nIn general, the WACC can be calculated with the following formula:\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere formula_2 is the number of sources of capital (securities, types of liabilities); formula_3 is the required rate of return for security formula_4; and formula_5 is the market value of all outstanding securities formula_4.\n\nIn the case where the company is financed with only equity and debt, the average cost of capital is computed as follows:\n\nformula_7\n\nwhere formula_8 is the total debt, formula_9 is the total shareholder's equity, formula_10 is the cost of debt, and formula_11 is the cost of equity. The market values of debt and equity should be used when computing the weights in the WACC formula.\n\nTax effects can be incorporated into this formula. For example, the WACC for a company financed by one type of shares with the total market value of formula_12 and cost of equity formula_13 and one type of bonds with the total market value of formula_14 and cost of debt formula_15, in a country with corporate tax rate formula_16, is calculated as:\n\nformula_17\n\nActually carrying out this calculation has a problem. There are many plausible proxies for each element. As a result, a fairly wide range of values for the WACC for a given firm in a given year, may appear defensible.\n\nAdvantages:\n\nDisadvantages:\n\n\"The firm's debt component is stated as k\" and since there is a tax benefit from interest payments then the after tax WACC component is k(1-T); where T is the tax rate.\n\nAdvantages:\n\n\nDisadvantages:\n\n\n3 ways of calculating KK:\n\n\"Cost of new equity should be the adjusted cost for any underwriting fees terme flotation costs (F)\"\n\nK = D/P(1-F) + g; where F = flotation costs, D is dividends, P is price of the stock, and g is the growth rate.\n\nWeighted average cost of capital equation:\n\nWACC= (W)[(K)(1-t)]+ (W)(K)+ (W)(K)\n\nMarginal cost of capital (MCC) schedule or an investment opportunity curve is a graph that relates the firm's Weighted cost of each unit of capital to the total amount of new capital raised. The first step in preparing the MCC schedule is to rank the projects using IRR. The higher the IRR the better off a project is.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42240273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42240273", "title": "World Theater (Omaha, Nebraska)", "text": "World Theater (Omaha, Nebraska)\n\nThe World Theater was a vaudeville and movie theater at 1506 Douglas Street in downtown Omaha, Nebraska. Its name was changed to the Omaha Theater in February 1935 when it was sold to new management. It closed on February 26, 1978 and was razed in 1980 to allow for the construction of a parking garage.\n\nThe 2,500 seat World Theater was designed by architect C. Howard Crane for the World Realty Company. Crane, a native of Detroit, was one of the foremost theatrical architects in the United States. Harry Lawrie, of the Omaha architectural firm of Mendelssohn, Fisher and Lawrie, oversaw the project from Omaha. The James Black Masonry and Construction Company served as the general contractors. Construction took ten months.\n\nThe theater was constructed of brick on a steel frame. The exterior was faced in glazed terra cotta all around. Three grand arched windows with iron mullions separated by four sets of Corinthian columns dominated the front of the theater. Railings with balustrade sills completed the windows' ornamentation. The Corinthian columns supported an enriched frieze and cornice decorated with dentils and modillions. A parapet band with sculptured inserts and the inscribed words, \"World Theatre\", was centered at the top of the building.\n\nThe interior included a large chandelier with a thousand cut-glass crystals hanging from the large center dome of gold and silver inlay. Two smaller chandeliers hung from two lesser domes. In the lobby hung a chandelier of prismatic glass in the shape of a globe, surrounded by an orbit of comets, stars and crescents. Torchers of cathedral glass set on Corinthian shafts and marble bases are on the mezzanine foyer, and a ceiling of Chinese silk and Chinese coins decorated the women's lounge. The stage curtain was made of velvet with gold fringe and large tassels sewn by the Drapery Department of the J. L. Brandeis and Sons Store. The velvet carpets, also provided by the J. L. Brandeis Store, were in harmonizing shades of blue and gold. Completing the Brandeis decorations were davenports and overstuffed chairs in the promenade lounge and other smaller lounges.\n\nA $45,000 pipe organ manufactured by Hope-Jones Wurlitzer was installed by the theater's opening.\nThe grand opening of the World Theater was on Saturday, April 15, 1922. A crowd of over 10,000 attended the opening with shows at 2:00 pm, 4:20 pm, 6:45 pm and 9:15 pm. Prices for the grand opening were 50 cents for unreserved seats, and 75 cents with a reservation.\n\nIn February 1935 the World Theater was sold and the new management renamed it the Omaha Theater. It closed on February 26, 1978. When plans for redevelopment of the theater failed, the building was razed in 1980 and a parking garage built at the location.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36345201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36345201", "title": "Šandor Alexander", "text": "Šandor Alexander\n\nŠandor Alexander pl. Sesvetski (April 5, 1866 – December 17, 1929) was a Croatian nobleman, industrialist, philanthropist, younger brother of Samuel David Alexander and member of the Zagreb prominent Alexander family.\n\nAlexander, known as \"Der Berühmte\" (The Notable One), was born in Zagreb to a Croatian Jewish family. His father, Jonas Alexander, was a merchant who came to Zagreb from Güssing, Austria and his mother Roza (née Stern) was from Zagreb old influential Jewish family. Alexander had an older brother, Samuel David, and two sisters, Gizela and Ilka. Alexander attended elementary and high school in Zagreb. He was married to Karolina Dragojla (née Ebenspanger) Alexander, who was from Varaždin. Together they had only child, daughter Zora who was born on September 18, 1895 in Zagreb. Alexander wife died in Zagreb, on September 18, 1925. His daughter was married to Croatian Jewish industrialist and merchant, Artur Marić (born Mayer). In 1944, during World War II, Alexander daughter was killed by Nazis in Auschwitz.\n\nAfter his education, Alexander worked for 3 years at the \"Paromlin\" in Zagreb. Alexander gained his commercial training as a partner of his father, at their family grain wholesale. He was remarkable economic expert who published the noted article in the \"Bankarstvo\" magazine, 1924. Between 1905 and 1910, Alexander was the city representative in the Zagreb City Assembly. In 1909 he became the adviser of Franz Joseph I of Austria. Alexander worked and was a member in more than 60 association in Croatia. He was the councillor, vicepresident and honorary president of the \"Commercial Chamber\". He also worked as treasurer and later as a vicepresident of the \"Commercial Home\" in Zagreb, and as an honorary vicepresident of the \"Association of traders for Croatia and Slavonija\". Alexander was also the vicepresident of the \"Bank for commerce and industry d.d.\", and board member of the \"Croatian trust bank d.d.\" and \"Croatian commercial bank d.d.\". Since 1885, at \"Croatian commercial association Merkur\", Alexander was at first vicepresident, since 1892 the president and in 1910, he was honored as a lifetime president. Within \"Merkur\", he advocated the development of vocational education. Alexander was major stock holder of the \"First Croatian machinery factory and iron foundry\" in Zagreb. He also encouraged the development of tourism in Croatia, and as so he was the major shareholder of \"Schlesinger Palace\" (now \"Hotel Palace, Zagreb\") in Zagreb. Alexander was member of the society \"Narodni rad - društvo židovskih asimilanata i anticionista u Hrvatskoj\" (\"Peoples work - Society of Jewish assimilates and anti Zionists in Croatia\").\n\nAlexander was great philanthropist, just like his brother, who donated the most of his wealth to charity. Around 1908, Alexander founded the society for feeding poor school children in Zagreb, where he was also the treasurer. He also managed the Croatian academic society, which supported and funded the poor academic citizens. Every society which had the fortune to have Alexander as a treasurer, never had problems with finances. During World War I, Alexander organized and largely financed the \"Council for helping the unemployed and disabled employees of trading, industrial and financial institutions\", which he also chaired as the president. His greatest merit was when he, fall of 1914, established a public kitchen for the poor citizens and families of those who fought on the battlefield during the war. Alexander founded the charity \"Prehrana\". At 1925, \"Prehrana\" was estimated at 25 million dinars. \"Prehrana\" distributed millions of meals, according to some estimates over 15 millions. At the beginning of the World War I, Alexander donated 1 million golden guldens as an irreversible war loan to the state. For that, on August 13, 1918, Alexander was knighted by Charles I of Austria and awarded with the title \"pl.\" (plemeniti = noble ) \"Sesvetski\".\n\nOn December 17, 1929, while attending the Royal Guard ball in Belgrade, Alexander suddenly fell ill. He died from a heart attack in the night from the 17th. to the 18th. of December, 1929. All major newspapers reported in detail and with great sadness about Alexanders death and funeral. Alexander was buried at the Mirogoj Cemetery with huge crowd attending the funeral.\n\n\n"}
