{"id": "13827590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13827590", "title": "Academic grading in Russia", "text": "Academic grading in Russia\n\nThe Russian Federation uses a five-point academic grading system, where:\n\nThis system, with minor changes, has been in use in Russian schools since 1837. Between 1917 and 1935, the Communist government had tried to implement a radically new evaluation system with no grades at all, but it never fully took root.\n\nQualifiers + and – are often used to add some degree of differentiation between the grades, e.g. 4+ is better than 4 but not as good as 5–. Grading varies greatly from school to school, university to university and even teacher to teacher, and tends to be entirely subjective even for courses that lend themselves to objective marking such as mathematics and applied sciences. Even though the grades technically range from \"1\" to \"5\", \"1\" is not very common and is rarely given for academic reasons—in many cases a \"1\" is given as a result of failure to show up for an exam or to answer any questions. A \"2\" grade usually means that the student showed little or no knowledge in a subject. \n\nIn higher education, most subjects are graded ‘Pass/No pass’ ('Credit/No Credit') (зачёт/незачёт, pronounced \"zachòt/nyezachòt\"), and the rest are graded on the five-point scale. The 'Pass/No Pass' grades have no official numeric representation. When \"zachòt\"-type subjects are graded ‘Pass/No pass’ (sometimes translated as ‘Credit/No credit’), this simply represents a student's good/poor knowledge of a subject. \"Zachòt\"-type subjects are also called \"non-exams\" due to lack of numerical representations. Each university applies its own standards of the level of knowledge required to pass each course. Students in Russia typically must pass all courses taken in order to graduate. \n\nThe various possible interpretations of the notation \"zachòt\" (usually translated \"credit\" or \"pass\"), can create problems for Russian students applying to Western universities. Such notations, especially when people consider \"zachòt\"-type credit as a C, may confuse Western universities in their attempts at accurate conversion to a Western-system GPA.\n\n"}
{"id": "2683761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2683761", "title": "Airport Tycoon", "text": "Airport Tycoon\n\nAirport Tycoon is a business simulation game released for Windows 95/98 in 2000. It was developed in the United Kingdom by Krisalis Software (now defunct). In \"Airport Tycoon\", the player must successfully build and manage an airport without going bankrupt. There have been two sequels created for \"Airport Tycoon\": \"Airport Tycoon 2\" and \"Airport Tycoon 3\". There was to be a Nintendo 64 version released as well, but this version was cancelled.\n\n\"Airport Tycoon\" was originally called \"Airport Inc.\" and \"Air Mogul\". A week before the game's publishing, Krisalis Software changed its name to \"Airport Tycoon\" in some markets, a more catchy title. However, the game calls itself \"Air Mogul\" because of the inadequate time to change the software, and is sold in PAL as \"Airport Inc.\" Krisalis became defunct shortly after publishing \"Airport Tycoon\".\n\nSimilar to other games of this type, the player takes the form of an airport manager by first selecting a location for his or her airport from several cities around the world before beginning his or her airport. The player then constructs a terminal for passengers, then runways, tarmac, control towers and support services.\n\nThe player then attracts businesses to his or her airport by signing contracts with vendors in the terminal and contracting flights into and out of the airport. The player also manages the airport's budget, which can not operate too deeply in the red. Players can operate passenger airports and cargo airports with different considerations for each.\n\nA number of preset scenarios are also available to the player, including the conversion of a major cargo airport to a passenger airport in Beijing.\n\nThe game was poorly received by critics. Frequent criticisms included difficulty of gameplay, substandard graphics and confusing controls. It received a 62/100 score from PC Gamer, 3/10 from IGN, among other rankings.\n\n\"Airport Tycoon\" was followed by a sequel, \"Airport Tycoon 2\", in 2003. It was developed by Sunstorm Interactive and published by Global Star Software on February 26, 2003 for Windows PC. \"Airport Tycoon 2\" received negative reviews from critics. Aggregating review website GameRankings provides an average score of 31% based on 9 reviews, whereas Metacritic provides a score of 32 out of 100 based on 6 reviews, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews.\"\n\nA third game in the series, \"Airport Tycoon 3\", was developed by InterActive Vision and published by Global Star on October 30, 2003. Based on four professional reviews, Metacritic finds that \"Airport Tycoon 3\" has received \"generally unfavorable\" reviews and establishes a metascore of 46/100. Airport Tycoon received negative reviews by IGN and GameSpot calling the game \"irritating and monotonous\", and the general review of the game on both the sites stated that the game was \"lackluster\" and \"bland\" not only in gameplay but in sound and texture, and its mechanics were \"tedious\". GameSpot's final comment on the game was that \"It's unfortunate that the execution in the game is so disappointing in virtually every respect.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5328554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5328554", "title": "American Association of Teachers of German", "text": "American Association of Teachers of German\n\nThe American Association of Teachers of German is a professional organisation for teachers of German in the United States and Europe. Teachers may be involved in primary, secondary, or university education. Additionally, retired and student teachers are welcome.\n\nThe National German Exam is administered each year to over 25,000 high school students of German. The exam provides individual diagnostic feedback, rewards students through an extensive regional and national prize program, and creates a sense of accomplishment. Exam results provide teachers a means of comparing students in all regions of the country, as well as programmatic data provided to help inform curricular decisions. The Exam is administered in December and January and results are provided directly to teachers in February.\n\nFor over 50 years, the Federal Republic of Germany, through the German Foreign Office (Auswärtiges Amt) and its Pedagogical Exchange Service (Pädagogischer Austauschdienst), has provided the AATG/PAD Study Trip Awards, a 3-4 week trip to Germany in the summer following the Exam. Students attend classes at an academic high school, stay in homestays, and participate in various excursions to places of cultural significance. The initial selection process takes place through the AATG National German Exam: Those students who score at or above the 90th percentile and meet eligibility requirements are informed that they can apply for the Study Trip Award. Of those who apply, two candidates are selected from each state by the AATG Chapter committee: Award 1, a sophomore or junior, and award 2, a senior. These candidates' applications are then sent to the National AATG Selection Committee, which makes the final decisions.\n\nEach year up to four recipients of this scholarship are selected from the applicants for the National German Exam Study Trip Award. Endowed Scholarship recipients receive a full scholarship to participate in the AATG Summer Study Program. This scholarship has existed since 1997 and is funded by generous donations of AATG Members and friends.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35871697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35871697", "title": "British Flying Training School Program", "text": "British Flying Training School Program\n\nAt the beginning of the Second World War the United Kingdom recognised that it would need to train a large number of pilots. A number of flying and aircrew training schools were set up across the British Empire where pilots could be trained without risk of enemy interference. The British Flying Training Schools (BFTS) were set up in the United States of America from 1941 as a result of the Lend Lease Bill.\n\nSeven schools were opened. These were:\n"}
{"id": "6321989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6321989", "title": "Center for Urban Pedagogy", "text": "Center for Urban Pedagogy\n\nThe Center for Urban Pedagogy (CUP) is a nonprofit organization that uses the power of design and art to improve the quality of public participation in urban planning and community design. CUP was founded in 1997 by artist and architect Damon Rich with co-founders Oscar Tuazon (artist), Stella Bugbee (graphic designer), Josh Breitbart (media activist), Jason Anderson (architect), AJ Blandford (contractor), Sarah Dadush (attorney), Althea Wasow (filmmaker), and Rosten Woo (policy analyst). It is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization located in Gowanus, Brooklyn, New York City. CUP's current executive director is Christine Gaspar.\n\n\nand Michael Rice,” An Architektur, September 2008.\n"}
{"id": "17985445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17985445", "title": "Christina Kokubo", "text": "Christina Kokubo\n\nChristina Kokubo (July 27, 1950 in Detroit, Michigan – June 9, 2007) was an American film and television actress; she was also a drama teacher.\n\nKokubo appeared in several feature films, including \"The Yakuza\" (1975), a neo-noir gangster film set in Japan, and \"Midway\" (1976), in which she played a Japanese-American who has a troubled romance with a white naval officer during World War II.\n\nShe also appeared in several television productions, including appearing as Paramedic Faith Yee in thirteen episodes (1984–1988) of \"St. Elsewhere\", a medical-drama television series. Additionally, Kokubo participated in several documentary films about the yakuza crime syndicate in Japan.\n\nFor seven years, Kokubo taught acting classes at the Braille Institute in Los Angeles, California. Spearheading the Los Angeles premier non-profit theater for the blind called \"Changing Perceptions\". Christina's Class — a non-profit organization that offers drama therapy to the disabled in the Los Angeles area, is named in her memory.\nChristina Kokubo died at age 56 of complications from breast cancer. \n\n"}
{"id": "19207800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19207800", "title": "Community colleges in the United States", "text": "Community colleges in the United States\n\nIn the United States, community colleges (once commonly called junior colleges), are primarily two-year public institutions of tertiary education. Many community colleges also offer remedial education, GEDs, high school degrees, technical degrees and certificates, and a limited number of 4-year degrees.\n\nAfter graduating from a community college, some students transfer to a university or liberal arts college for two to three years to complete a bachelor's degree, while others enter the workforce.\n\nIn 2012–2013, 7.7 million people attended U.S. community colleges, with about 3.1 million students enrolled full-time, and about 4.6 million students enrolled part-time.\n\nDuring the Great Recession (2007-2009), community colleges faced state budget cuts amid increases in enrollment. As a result, community colleges raised student tuition. With enrollments decreasing, lower budgets at community colleges continues with increasing reliance on adjunct professors, who are generally paid significantly less, typically receive little-to-no employment benefits, and face much greater uncertainty of continued employment semester to semester.\nCommunity colleges received attention in 2015 after President Barack Obama proposed to make community college tuition free to many residents of the United States in his State of the Union Address. The plan is called \"America’s College Promise.\" This attention has brought on praise, scrutiny, and criticism of community colleges. It has also brought attention to the funding of higher education in general. \nThis plan, however, would only pay tuition; non-tuition items such as textbooks, supplies, transportation, and room and board for those wishing to live on campus would not be covered in Obama's plan.\n\nBefore the 1970s, community colleges were more commonly referred to as junior colleges, and that term is still used at some institutions and for athletics, specifically the NJCAA. However, the term \"junior college\" is now usually used to characterize private two-year institutions. The term \"community college\" has evolved to describe publicly funded two-year institutions. The main national advocacy organization for community colleges, which was founded in 1920 as the \"American Association of Junior Colleges,\" changed its name in 1992 to the \"American Association of Community Colleges\".\n\nCohen and Brawer report on the variety of other names, such as city college, county college (in New Jersey), and branch campus. Other common components of the school name include vocational, technical, adult education and technical institute. Nicknames include \"democracy's college\" and \"opportunity college.\" \n\nIn several Californian cities as well as in other large cities such as Chicago, with its City Colleges of Chicago, community colleges are often called \"city colleges\", since they were municipally funded and designed to serve the needs of the residents of the city in which they are situated. Also, the state's public two-year colleges are not solely found in its larger cities.\n\nNew York City's network of community colleges was established outside of the CUNY system, and only integrated into that system at the insistence of the state government. Another example is Westchester Community College. In the late 1940s, the county operated a popular vocational institute. The New York state government required that the county transform its technical institute into a community college. The county government resisted this transformation, as it would be responsible for a third of the new institution's operating costs (in contrast, the state paid for all of the technical institute's operating costs). After a series of very heated meetings, fully reported in the local press, the county was forced to conform to the state government's wishes.\n\nAs a general rule, broad generalizations about the origins, purposes, and funding of public two-year colleges varies widely among the states and, as in the case of California, within states. Furthermore, because the vital role played by rural community colleges in preparing excess rural youth for productive careers in urban centers is not well understood by policy makers, these relatively small institutions do not receive sufficient state funding to offset their weak tax bases and, because of their relatively small size, much higher per-student costs when compared to urban community colleges. This inequity in basic institutional funding has led to the creation of such organizations as the Community Colleges of Appalachia and the tribal college association, which have sought to promote more equitable funding irrespective of an institution's size or location.\n\nBefore 1850, a few public institutions offered two years of college: Lasell Junior College in Auburndale, Massachusetts, and Vincennes University of Vincennes, Indiana. Helland cites a section from the 1899 Vincennes University catalog: “The Vincennes University occupies a unique position in the educational field. It is half-way between the commissioned high school and the full-fledged college: it is in fact a junior college.”\n\nMany of the early community colleges were normal schools that prepared school teachers. Primary emphasis was placed on traditional middle class values and developing responsible citizens. As an example, Normal Schools began in the State of Massachusetts in the 1880s as extensions of local high schools. They were originated to meet the need for teacher preparation. For example, in Saint Joseph, Missouri, a Normal School was added to the local high school to provide a career track for women who wanted to teach. Mr. Whiteford, the area’s district superintendent, inquired of the University of Missouri to determine if credits from Saint Joseph Normal School could transfer into a baccalaureate program. The University’s President Dr. Hill acknowledged the request and provided for the articulation. Coincidentally, Dr. Hill was actively involved in the American Association of Universities and calling for the establishment of junior colleges for this purpose. In Minnesota, St. Paul’s Public School District established a “City Training School” for preparing teachers. The 1883 school’s mission was to provide certified teachers and substitutes for the district. Mrs. M. E. Jenness from the Normal School at River Falls, Wisconsin, was the St. Paul School’s first principal; Mrs. N. F. Wheaton was the Director of Practice. Wheaton had been employed at the Oshkosh Normal School in Wisconsin. In Minneapolis, a Normal Training School was instituted in the fall of 1887. Miss Adele Evers of Manchester Normal School in New Hampshire was appointed the first teacher; she was one of six candidates for the position. Evers’ references included work at Martha’s Vineyard and Saratoga.\n\nBaltimore’s Manual Training High School opened in 1884, was the first separate secondary school for education that was specifically work orientated. The Maryland institution was unique as a stand-alone campus. Other examples of sub-baccalaureate programs were the University Preparatory School and Junior College of Tonkawa. The result of the two- year schools founded in Oklahoma Public School Secondary System in 1902, both institutions later merged in 1914 and became the Oklahoma Institute of Technology. Dean Schneider of the University of Cincinnati developed an alternative high school with a cooperative plan where students spent one week in an occupation and the other in school. Industry provided the shop experiences and the classroom facilitated the academic. There were also non-cooperative high schools; two examples were the Girl’s Vocational High School in Kansas City, Missouri and the Delgado Trade School in New Orleans. A two-year, terminal education, was seen as more socially efficient for students who could advance past high school but not continue to attain bachelor's degrees. This national vocational movement gave junior colleges a target population, but numerous students wanted more than a semiprofessional education; many maintained a desire to transfer. Throughout this time period, there was a move for more public two-year institutions along with a trend to separate from high schools and affiliate with higher education. With the change in affiliation came a new status which encouraged junior colleges to develop additional credibility through the creation of professional criteria and use of scientific methods.\n\nBrint and Karabel conclude that, “The two-year college has been a distinctively American creation, and nowhere else has it attained such prominence.” J. L. Ratcliff. suggests one perspective for the emergence of two-year post secondary institutions of the past century: they began in the private sector after the Panic of 1893. At that time of severe financial hardship J. M. Carroll, president of Baylor University, made a pragmatic suggestion to solve the problem of too many Baptist colleges with insufficient funds and not enough students to support them: reduce the smaller Baptist colleges’ curriculum to the freshman and sophomore years. After this preliminary period, Baylor University would accept the two-year students and provide the junior and senior years of their academic plan. Carroll hoped this split would require fewer faculty and resources for the first two years of higher education.\n\nIn the larger cities early public community colleges were often an extension of high schools, like the first established, Joliet Junior College, in Illinois in 1901. These initial community colleges generally were small (usually fewer than 200 students) and focused on a liberal arts education with the goal of transferring students to four-year colleges. They reflected high school needs and lacked a definite identity. These examples of two-year structure innovations with transfer missions in the private and public sector provided a pragmatic approach for the preservation of existing institutions.\n\nJunior colleges grew from 20 in number In 1909, to 170 in 1919. By 1922, 37 states had set up 70 junior colleges, enrolling about 150 students each. Meanwhile, another 137 were privately operated, with about 60 students each. Rapid expansion continued in the 1920s, with 440 junior colleges in 1930 enrolling about 70,000 students. The peak year for private institutions came in 1949, when there were 322 junior colleges in all; 180 were affiliated with churches, 108 were independent non-profit, and 34 were private Schools run for-profit.\n\nMany factors contributed to rapid growth of community colleges. Students parents and businessmen wanted nearby, low-cost schools to provide training for the growing white collar labor force, as well as for more advanced technical jobs in the blue collar sphere. Four years colleges were also growing, albeit not as fast; however many of them were located in rural or small-town areas away from the fast-growing metropolis.\n\nSeveral different movements supported the creation of community colleges, including local community support of public and private two-year institutions, the expansion of the public education system, increased professional standards for teachers, the vocational education movement, and an expanding demand for adult and community education. Numerous colleges and universities advocated for the development of junior colleges. Leadership felt small, private liberal arts colleges and high schools could provide the first two years of college while larger universities could focus resources on research and junior and senior level students.\n\nDuring the 1920s and 1930s there was a shift in the purpose of community colleges to developing a workforce, which was influenced by wide unemployment during the Great Depression. Developing \"semiprofessionals\" became dominant national language to describe junior college students. The notion that engineers and supervisors make primary decisions about what and how activities were to be done in the workplace provided the origins for employees needed to carry out their decisions. This need for a class of workers to implement the decisions of the theoreticians demanded an educational delivery system other than the traditional four-year college or university. The closed shop of the artisan which had initially provided workers was no longer the educational program of choice. Nationally, a new two-year vehicle for educating the industrial worker found its launching within the secondary public school system under the leadership of local school districts.\n\nAfter World War II, the G.I. Bill afforded more educational opportunity to veterans which resulted in increased enrollments. Another factor that led to growth was the rise of adult and community education. After World War II, community colleges were seen as a good place to house continuing education programs. The 1947 President's Commission on Higher Education was an important national document for community colleges. It established a network of public community colleges that would provide education to a diverse group of students at little or no cost along with serving community needs through a comprehensive mission.\n\nThis national network exploded in the 1960s with 457 community colleges and the enrollment of baby boomers. A series of grants through the Kellogg Junior College Leadership Programs helped train many community college leaders during this decade.\n\nMerritt College, a junior college (and now a community college) in Oakland, California, was the site for organizing and educating members of the Black Panthers in the mid- to late-1960s.\n\nIn the 1970s, growth continued when many enrolled to escape the Vietnam era draft. The 1970s also marked a shift to faculty development, including more instructional training for the unique student body and mission of community colleges. In 1976, Coastline Community College was launched as the first \"college without walls,\" using television, a precursor today's online programs as well as using community facilities. During the 1980s, community colleges began to work more closely with high schools to prepare students for vocational and technical two-year programs.\n\nBy the end of the 20th century, two-year community colleges were playing important roles in higher education as access mechanisms. They became an integral feature for those persons who were attending higher education for the first time or as non-traditional students. Brint and Karabel have recognized the change that transpired from 1920 when fewer than 2 percent of all college freshmen were enrolled in a two-year college to the late 1980s when over 50 percent were matriculated. Junior colleges once located in high schools had left their origins to develop their own campuses and were called community colleges and still retained the transfer access mission. High school normal schools matured into teacher colleges or colleges of education within universities offering bachelor and graduate degrees. Industrial institutes integrated with local junior colleges to make these campus’s programs more comprehensive community colleges. Along with this growth and legitimization of two-year mechanisms for the delivery of higher education, the emergence of two-year institutions provided an epistemological debate that divided the river of education flowing into the early 20th century into three streams of educational natures. “In the process of this struggle and adjustment some colleges will grow stronger, some will become academies, some junior colleges; the high schools will be elevated to a still more important position than that which they now occupy. The general result will be the growth of a system in the higher educational work of the United States, where now no system exists.”\n\nIn recent history, a debate between the advocates and critics of community colleges gained strength. Advocates argued that community colleges served the needs of society by providing college opportunity to students who otherwise cannot go to college, training and retraining mid-level skilled workers, and preserving the academic excellence of four-year universities. Critics argued that community colleges continued a culture of privilege through training business workers at public expense, not allowing the working class to advance in social class, protecting selective admissions at four-year institutions for the nation's elite, and discouraging transfer through cooling out.\n\nAlthough the growth of community colleges has stabilized, enrollment continued to outgrow four-year institutions. A total of 1,166 loosely linked community colleges face challenges of new technological innovations, distance learning, funding constraints, community pressure, and international influence. Some of the issues currently faced are explored in community college resources compiled by the Association for Career and Technical Education.\n\nIn the 2010s, funding for community colleges faced scrutiny as state budgets were tightened. Because higher education budgets are considered discretionary expenses, they have been more likely targets for cuts than K-12 education or Medicaid. In 2014, however, the state of Tennessee and the city of Chicago, Illinois began programs for free community college. In 2015, President Barack Obama proposed a plan for free community colleges, where states would contribute a portion of the funding. However, key Republican lawmakers, including John Boehner (a key proponent of for-profit colleges) \n\nTwo states have taken measures to provide free community college to students. “Oregon now is poised to follow Tennessee as the second state with a plan on the books to provide free two-year college” The Oregon Promise, similar to America’s College Promise, will provide free community college to students who meet certain eligibility requirements. According to Fain, the legislation will cost Oregon $10 million per year to pay for tuition costs state and federal aid doesn’t cover. Thanks to a large increase in funding for higher education, Oregon is able to financially afford the costs of providing free community college to students. While only two states have made strides in providing a free community college education, White House representatives want to see more states support the initiative.\n\nThe state of Tennessee currently has the Tennessee Promise, but this initiative does not receive its funding in the same manner in which President Obama wants to fund U.S. College Promise (Mangan & Supiano, 2015). Following in the footsteps of Tennessee and Oregon is Illinois. The Community College of Philadelphia and Harper College in Illinois recently announced its plans to provide free two-year community college experiences to students (Fain, 2015).\n\nTimeline of important events\n1901: Joliet, Illinois added fifth and sixth year courses to the high school curriculum leading to the development of the first public junior college, Joliet Junior College.\n\n1920: American Association of Junior Colleges established.\n\n1930: First publication of the \"Community College Journal\".\n\n1944: Passage of the Federal G.I. Bill of Rights\n\n1947: Publication of \"Higher Education for American Democracy\" by the President's Commission on Higher Education (the 1947 Truman Commission).\n\n1965: Higher Education Act of 1965 established grant programs to make higher education more accessible.\n\n1992: The American Association of Junior Colleges changed their name to the American Association of Community Colleges.\n\nAdjunct faculty, a form of contingent labor, make up most of the instructional staff at community colleges. Adjunct pay ranges from about $1,397 to about $3,000 per course. While the community college instructional staff is diverse, some community college teachers are \"freeway flyers\" who work at multiple campuses to make a living. \n\nState governance\n\nThe higher education governance structure landscape in the United States is very diverse; they are not intended to be precise organization charts. According to the Education Commission of the States there are three major types of higher education governance systems in the states; they are Governing Board States, Coordinating Board States and Planning/ Regulatory/Service Agency States. (from: The Education Commission of the States website)\n\nGoverning board states (GBS)\n\nState-level governing boards are distinguished according to whether they are responsible for consolidated systems or multi-campus systems. Consolidated systems are composed of several previously independently governed institutions that were later consolidated into one system. Multi-campus systems developed primarily through extensions of various branches or campuses.\n\nCoordinating board states\n\nCoordinating boards vary significantly in formal authority and informal power and influence from state to state. Generally, there is a state level board governing universities, colleges, and community colleges. Each university and community college district will have its own board that is accountable to a state-coordinating agency.\n\nThe Planning/Regulatory/Service Agency States (PRSA)\n\nThe PRSA states have limited or non-existent formal governing or coordinating authority, which carry out regulatory and service functions such as student financial aid.\n\nFor a comprehensive list of American community colleges and their state level governing boards: \"U.S. Community Colleges by State, University of Texas at Austin\"\n\nA more thorough description of state level college and university governance models can be found at: \"Models of Postsecondary Education Coordination and Governance in the States\"\n\nLocal governance\n\nMost community colleges are operated within special districts that draw property tax revenue from the local community, as a division of a state university, or as a sister institution within a statewide higher education system.\n\nIn all cases, community colleges are governed by a board of trustees, appointed by the state governor, or the board is elected by citizens residing within the community college district. In some instances, as with the City Colleges of Chicago, the board of trustees is appointed by the presiding local government. In Chicago, it is the mayor who appoints the board.\n\nDepending on the operational system, the board of trustees may directly govern the college or may govern the college through a university or system-level office. Depending upon the locus of control, the board may or may not be subject to control by a state agency that supervises all community college districts or all higher education institutions within the state.\n\nThe board of trustees selects a president or chancellor of the community college to serve as the chief executive officer and lead the faculty and staff.\n\nMulti-college district\n\nMulti-college community college districts include several individually accredited community colleges within one district. Each college is independent with distinct local administration, but they share a single board of trustees and report to a non-instructional central administrative office.\n\nThe Contra Costa Community College District is an example of one of the largest multi-college community college districts in California. The District consists of Contra Costa College, Diablo Valley College, Los Medanos College, San Ramon Campus, and Brentwood Center, and annually serves almost 62,000 students.\n\nMulti-campus district\n\nLarger schools implement a multi-campus system and generally share a single accreditation. Local administrative governance varies. Extension campuses report to the main campus administration or a central administrative office. A good example of this is College of DuPage in Glen Ellyn, Illinois, which has 6 satellite campuses within a 10-mile area, in addition to its main campus, which itself has 9 structures and an enrollment of over 30,000 students.\n\nFaculty governance\n\nFaculty senates and councils\n\nA faculty senate, or faculty council as this body is sometimes referred to, is the representative body of all faculty who participate in the governance processes of the community college. As with all governing bodies, the faculty senate is usually governed by a constitution and a set of bylaws specific to the college. Membership in this body varies from college, with most restricting voting rights to tenured and tenure track faculty, and others allowing a wider array of members to include full-time, adjunct, continuing education, technical, and adult basic education faculty. (modified from: http://www.pima.edu/facsenate/)\n\nThough this is not an exhaustive list, the mission of the faculty senate at the community college usually includes: matters concerning curricular decisions; strengthening the concept of the faculty as a college entity; promoting the gathering, exchanging, and disseminating of faculty views and concerns regarding college matters; promoting mutual accountability between the college faculty and the faculty representative to any college committee; advising the Chancellor and other administrators of faculty views on college matters; bringing the concerns of the Chancellor and other administrators on college matters to the faculty; promoting the involvement of all faculty members in the establishing, staffing, and functioning of college committees, task forces, or other initiatives; and participating in the policy review process of the college.\n\nCollective bargaining units/agreements\n\nMost community college faculty are bargained for employees. While unions and their respective collective bargaining agreements serve to protect faculty rights and working conditions, collective bargaining agreements, or union contracts, provide faculty with a defined set of rules and regulations they must follow as a condition of employment.\nCollective bargaining swept into higher education on the coattails of legislation authorizing public employees to negotiate. As these laws were passed in various states in the 1960s and 1970s, employee groups ranging from refuse collectors to prison guards gained union representation and began negotiating contracts (Cohen & Brawer, 2008, p. 147)\n\nCollective bargaining units exist for all divisions of community college faculty; however, participation by faculty groups differs from college to college.\n\nStudent governance\n\nThere is a student government organizational presence on close to every community college campus in America The Student Government organization is the official voice of the student body, a vital link in effective student participation in all areas of student concern in relationship to the college’s administration. By advocating student rights and services, the organization represents the student body and presents its concerns to the college administration, local, and national issues. Through the Student Government organizations the college provides students with essential leadership experience, and valuable connections with faculty, staff administration, students, and the Board of Trustees. Student involvement is usually based on criteria set by the institution; all students have the right as a student to participate in democratic process on campus. (from ASGA's entry of Bakersfield College)\n\nShared governance\n\nShared governance is the set of practices under which college faculty and staff participates in significant decisions concerning the operation of their institutions. Colleges are very special types of institutions with a unique mission—the creation and dissemination of ideas. At the heart of shared governance is the belief that decision-making should be largely independent of short-term managerial and political considerations. Faculty and professional staff are in the best position to shape and implement curriculum and research policy, to select academic colleagues and judge their work; and The perspective of all front-line personnel is invaluable in making sound decisions about allocating resources, setting goals, choosing top officers and guiding student life.\n\nFor a more detailed explanation of governance at the community college, please see the AAUP’s 1966 Statement on Government of Colleges and Universities and the 1998 statement on the same topic by the Association of Governing Boards of Universities and Colleges. These documents more clearly define those matters that are the responsibility of the voting faculty and those reserved to the governing body and its delegates. (From: http://www.aaup.org/AAUP/pubsres/academe/2002/JA/Feat/Luce.htm)\n\nIn the United States, community colleges operate under a policy of \"open admission.\" That is, anyone with a high school diploma or GED may attend, regardless of prior academic status or college entrance exam scores. Although community colleges have an open admission policy, students have to take placement tests before enrolling at the college, due to not all courses being open admission. In California and Minnesota, students who have reached the age of 18 are not required to have completed secondary education; instead, they must simply show an \"ability to benefit\" from a college's educational program. Under certain circumstances, community colleges will also accept high school students or dropouts.\n\nThe open admission policy results in a wide range of students attending community college classes. Students range in age from teenagers in high school taking classes under a concurrent, or dual, enrollment policy (which allows both high school and college credits to be earned simultaneously) to working adults taking classes at night to complete a degree or gain additional skills in their field to students with graduate degrees who enroll to become more employable or to pursue lifelong interests. \"Reverse transfers\" (or those transferring from a university) constitute one of the fastest growing new community college cohorts.\n\nOne threat to enrollment at community colleges has been the increasing popularity of for-profit e-learning and online universities, such as the University of Phoenix, now the 16th-largest university in the world. Higher education research and consulting firm Eduventures estimates that 10 percent of college students will be enrolled in an online degree program by 2008 Many community colleges have supplemented their offerings with online courses to stave off competition from exclusively e-learning schools. For example, Northern Virginia Community College's Extended Learning Institute has been offering distance learning courses for thirty-five years. Texas offers the Virtual College of Texas whereby a student at any community college in the state can attend classes from any of the state's 51 community colleges or four Texas State Technical College campuses, paying local tuition plus a VCT fee of around $40.\n\nThe Maricopa County Community College District in the Phoenix, Arizona metropolitan area, is the largest community college district in the United States in terms of enrollment.\n\nCalifornia has the lowest community college enrollment fees in the nation, currently set at $46 per unit for state residents.\n\nIn terms of enrollment demographics the American Association of Community Colleges (2015) 46% of all U.S. undergraduates are community college students. Other representations are as follows: first generation-41%, Native American-61%, Hispanic-57%, Black-52% and Asian/Pacific Islander-43%. While 50% of students are white at community colleges, that is 10% lower compared to 4-year institutions and a greater percentage exists of every non-white group at community colleges. More than half of Native American, Hispanic, and Black undergraduates are enrolled in community colleges, rather than 4-year institutions, a testament to their service to underrepresented populations. The average age of student is 28 compared to the 24-year-old 4-year institution average. Nearly 50% of students fall between the ages of 22–39, a much higher age range than the 4-year institution. There are slightly more women, 57%, than men, which may attribute to the greater number of students with children and the women who return to school after becoming a stay-at-home mother (17% of students are single parents). 60% of students are enrolled in credit coursework, seeking degrees, while the other 40% is pursuing certifications. Over 70% of students apply for any kind of financial aid, while only 58% receive aid. This only increases the number of student’s requiring some form of employment. When it comes to employment status the two highest populations are full-time students with part-time jobs and part-time students with full-time jobs. This is likely due to the necessity of work/school balance. As Katz and Davison (2014) state, “…community college students are more likely to be working class, ethnic minorities, over age 25, and from less educated families than traditional university students” (p. 308). Despite the added barriers and obstacles faced by community college students, research has found that these same students possess high aspirations, and have shown self-initiative, and resilience.\n\nAmong four-year institutions, transfer students have better outcomes at public institutions, very selective institutions, and institutions with students of higher SES. Average Bachelor's completion rates are 10% higher for students that transferred to public four-year institutions than those who transferred to private non-profit four-year institutions. Community college students who transferred to very selective four-year institutions had bachelor’s completion rates that were on average 36 percentage points higher than those of students who transferred to non-selective institutions.\n\nCommunity colleges generally offer a range of programs.\n\nIn study towards an associate degree, a student takes necessary courses needed to earn a degree that will allow for entry into jobs requiring some level of college education but not a full four-year degree. The associate degree program also allows students who wish to eventually obtain a bachelor's degree at a four-year college to complete the necessary \"core\" requirements to attend the college of their choice. Some states have mandated that the community college's curriculum be structured so as to satisfy \"core curriculum\" requirements at the state's public universities or private universities.\n\nMany community colleges have articulation arrangements with nearby four-year institutions, where a student obtaining an associate degree in a field will automatically have his/her classes counted toward the bachelor's degree requirement. For example, a community college associate degree in hotel and restaurant management, computers or accounting would count toward the four-year school's core requirement for a Business Administration degree. Some have gone one step further by arrangements with a four-year college for the student to obtain the bachelor's degree from the four-year college while taking all the courses via distance learning or other non-traditional modes, thus reducing the number of physical visits to the four-year school. One such example is College of DuPage (COD) in Illinois, who have implemented a program called 3+1. In this program, students can take three years of classes at the community college taught by COD professors and faculty, and in the fourth year attend classes on the COD campus, but taught by professors of nearby partner universities, such as Benedictine University, Concordia University, Governors State University, Lewis University, and Roosevelt University.\n\nCertification in an area of training (such as nursing, computer repair, allied health, law enforcement, firefighting, or welding), which require preparation for a state or national examination, or where certification would allow for hiring preference or a higher salary upon entering the workforce. These courses are often geared toward the needs of the local or area business community.\n\nServices of local interest to members of the community, such as job placement, adult continuing education classes (either for personal achievement or to maintain certification in specialized fields), and developmental classes for children. Some community colleges offer opportunities for high school dropouts to return to school and earn a high school diploma or obtain a GED.\n\nA growing trend in the United States is for community colleges to begin offering bachelor's degrees. As of 2013, nineteen states have authorized their community colleges to offer bachelor's degrees with California passing authorizing legislation in 2014.\n\nMany large community colleges, such as Miami-Dade College and St. Petersburg College, in Florida have even completely dropped the words \"community\" or \"junior\" from their names as they have added bachelor's degree programs in limited fields and have started their evolution into four-year colleges while retaining their local commitments. Even some smaller community colleges, such as Northern New Mexico College in Española, New Mexico, have dropped community from their names and now offer six or more bachelor's degrees. A few of the larger institutions, such as De Anza College in northern California and College of DuPage near Chicago, who both boast enrollment of over 25,000 students, continue to explore the cost-benefit analysis in offering 4-year degrees. In more rural communities, community colleges may host branches of the local state university, and community colleges with specialized programs may offer four-year degrees in conjunction with other schools, some miles away. For instance, Southern Illinois University offers aviation management bachelor's degrees at Mt. San Antonio College and Palomar College in Southern California.\n\n\n\nMany schools have adapted the term \"comprehensive\" to describe their institutions. These schools typically offer six facets of education: \n\nWithin the transfer education category, comprehensive schools typically have articulation agreements in place that provide prearranged acceptance into specific four-year institutions. At some community colleges, the partnering four-year institution teaches the third and fourth year courses at the community college location and thereby allows a student to obtain a four-year degree without having to physically move to the four-year school.\n\nThere are institutions and organizations which provide community college research to inform practice and policy.\n\nFor background on U.S. community college libraries, see \"Disposed to Consolidation and Innovation: Criteria for the Community College Specialization.\"\n\nRemediation, or sometimes referred to as developmental education, is a format of education aimed to help open doors for students by reinforcing or re-teaching them core skills. This educational strategy is utilized so students can meet competencies in various academic arenas and further progress in their academics. Remediation is prominent in community colleges, a type of two-year colleges, as these institutions are designed to accommodate students of various levels of academic abilities. Community college students are placed into remedial coursework according to their performance on placement-based testing they take prior to beginning classes.\n\nThe push in shifting students to enroll in remedial courses at community colleges stems from philosophical beliefs and reputations that these are the most appropriate places for instruction. All community colleges have developmental or remedial courses of some kind. Around 42 percent of first-year students attending two-year colleges in the United States sign up for remedial courses, twice as many as those at four-year universities or colleges. In Ohio, four in ten traditional-age students at community colleges enroll in remedial English courses, whereas six in ten enroll in remedial math. This state example reflects national studies that show a higher need for remedial community college students to take math courses, which also often have bigger class sizes and more levels of coursework than their remedial reading and writing counterpart courses. Students start taking remedial coursework in community colleges according to their performance on college placement tests, considered by some scholars to be far from perfect in their designs. Community colleges possess few admission requirements, meaning these types of institutions see a higher number of remedial students. Remedial education within community colleges may exist within an academic department, in its own academic department, or in an entire academic unit of its own.\n\nScholars recommend that community colleges can enhance their remedial education programs through utilizing a variety of methods. Community colleges are suggested to allow students to have the option of taking other courses, in addition to remedial courses, so they may feel like they are making progress with their programs. The institution of learning communities at community colleges may be challenging due to the nature of these students coming to and leaving campus often, but they have been helpful for remedial students at other postsecondary educations in facilitating friendships, improved studying patterns, and higher rates of passing courses. Technology-enhanced classrooms, complete with SmartBoards, computers and online networks, can increase the level of motivation that remedial community college students place toward their academic work. Remedial students obtaining academic assistance via college writing centers can also be helpful for enhancing their skills, as well as observing the interdisciplinary nature of classroom concepts and learning strategies.\n\nEffective and passionate instructors can provide remedial students with social capital, leading them to services ranging from tutoring and counseling. Students in remedial courses often end of performing “better than college-prepared students in terms of their grade point average, retention, and program completion.” Remedial students who attend community college orientations and receive more contact with tutoring, advising and mentoring services find these options to be rewarding. Those who complete remedial courses before college level courses often experience more benefits, including higher grade point averages, compared to their counterparts who do not take these remedial courses early in their college careers.\n\nSome students are placed into remedial courses, even when they only have minor issues, leading them to need to pass and complete remedial courses before being able to enroll in a basic course for that subject area. Likewise, some students are restricted from taking classes in other disciplines, such as physical sciences, until they complete developmental sequences. Students who take remedial courses may not have these count as college credits, and these students may be more likely to complete fewer college credits overall or stop out of college. Many community college instructors of remedial courses are part-time faculty members, which can prove challenging to students who require more assistance and contact. While some scholars debate whether money should be allocated toward remedial education, opponents argue that withholding these opportunities also has a direct impact on the quality of employees in the workforce if they continue to lack essential skills.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30522615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30522615", "title": "Constança Capdeville", "text": "Constança Capdeville\n\nConstança Capdeville (16 March 19374 February 1992) was a Portuguese pianist, percussionist, music educator and composer.\n\nConstança Capdeville was born in Barcelona and lived in the village of Caxias as a child. She came from an artistic family and in her youth was exposed to creative geniuses including Salvador Dalí. She wrote piano compositions at an early age, and studied piano and composition at the Lisbon Conservatorio Nacional, where she received a diploma in Higher Education in Music.\n\nAfter completing her studies in Barcelona, Capdeville settled in Portugal in 1951. She pursued further studies in piano with Varela Cid and musical composition with Jorge Croner de Vasconcellos. She then specialized her education in music to the study of ancient music (paleography/transcribing, organology, clavichord and performance practice) with Macário Santiago Kastner.\n\nAfter completing her musical studies, Capdeville taught music at the National Conservatory and the New University of Lisbon. She was a member of the Portuguese Council of Music and the Catalan Composers Association of Barcelona. She won the Portuguese Medal of Cultural Merit in 1990, and the Insignia of the Order of Santiago da Espada posthumously in 1992.\n\nCapdeville was a prolific composer. By 1969 she had begun to have her works commissioned by the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation for its orchestra. She produced approximately 100 pieces for orchestra, chamber ensembles and a variety of soloists using different instruments. She also composed music for films and plays, ballet/dance and 'dramatized' staged performances. From early on, her music revealed close ties to the dramatic arts and to the imagery of the human condition evoked though sound and Mise en scène.\n\nCapdeville's compositions were laden with multiple artistic perception. During her life, she was a close artistic and personal friend of music genius Jorge Peixinho who had himself been a towering influence upon the contemporary Portugal of the latter half of the 20th century. Capdeville was also a talented percussionist, but as a musician her main instrument was the piano.\n\nBesides the conservatory, she taught at the and at the \"Academia de Musica de Santa Cecilia\" in Lisbon. She also taught in the Musicology department of the 'Universidade Nova de Lisboa' (New University of Lisbon) 's Faculty of Humanities ( UNL- FCSH ). In this position, she taught a number of students who went on to prominence in music and composition and went on to receive prestigious national and international awards. These students include Eurico Carrapatoso, among others.\n\nCapdeville died of cancer February 4, 1992, at the age of 55 in her hometown of Caxias.\n\nCapdeville composed about a hundred works, including orchestral music, theater works and film soundtracks. Selected works include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13466211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13466211", "title": "Contexts", "text": "Contexts\n\nContexts: \"Understanding People in their Social Worlds\" is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal and an official publication of the American Sociological Association. It is designed to be a more accessible source of sociological ideas and research and has been inspired by the movement towards public sociology.\n\nThe journal was established in 2002 by Claude Fischer and is published by SAGE Publications; until 2011, it was published by the University of California Press. Fischer was succeeded by Jeff Goodwin and James M. Jasper, who edited the journal from 2005 to 2007, injecting a certain amount of controversial humor such as New Yorker cartoons and a column written by \"Harry Green\" (actually Jasper) called \"The Fool.\" The current editors are Syed Ali and Philip N. Cohen.\n\nThe journal differs from a typical academic journal as it is targeted more toward students and the general public. It is used widely in courses, and a selection of its premier articles is available in book format through \"The Contexts Reader,\" published by W. W. Norton & Company, now in its second edition.\n\nThe new editors have introduced a blog feature on the magazines website, Contexts.org.\n\nNew print issues are published quarterly in February (Winter), May (Spring), August (Summer) and November (Fall).\n\n\"Contexts\" won the Best Journal Award in the Social Sciences (2003) by Professional and Scholarly Publishing Division of the Association of American Publishers.\n\nOne of the most notable articles in \"Contexts\" is Ann Morning's interview with Rachel Doležal. The interview has aired on many TV news networks, such as Fox News, BBC, and USA Today, over the possibility of a trans-racial identity.\n\nThe academic journal ranges in topics from social mobility, immigration, race (particularly its role in Get Out), Donald Trump's potential border wall, and Buffy the Vampire Slayer.\n\nOne of the board members for \"Contexts\", Tressie McMillan Cottom, appeared on The Daily Show with Trevor Noah to discuss the impact of for-profit higher education in the United States on disadvantaged students.\n\"Contexts\" is abstracted and indexed in SocINDEX and Sociological Abstracts.\n"}
{"id": "35356507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35356507", "title": "Coursera", "text": "Coursera\n\nCoursera () is an online learning platform founded by Stanford professors Andrew Ng and Daphne Koller that offers courses, specializations, and degrees.\n\nCoursera works with universities and other organizations to offer online courses, specializations, and degrees in a variety of subjects, such as engineering, humanities, medicine, biology, social sciences, mathematics, business, computer science, digital marketing, data science, and others. \n\nAs of June 2018, Coursera had more than 33 million registered users and more than 2,400 courses.\n\nCoursera was founded in 2012 by Stanford University computer science professors Andrew Ng and Daphne Koller. Ng and Koller were inspired by their experiences offering their Stanford courses online in fall 2011, and soon after left Stanford to launch Coursera. Princeton, Stanford, the University of Michigan and the University of Pennsylvania were the first universities to offer content on the platform. Offerings have since expanded to include Specializations – collections of courses that build skills in a specific subject – as well as degrees and a workforce development product for businesses and government organizations.\n\nThe startup raised an initial $16 million funding round backed by Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and New Enterprise Associates. In 2013, the World Bank Group led the Series B investment, which totaled $63 million. In 2015, EDB Investments led the Series C round of venture funding, which totaled more than $60 million. The company has secured $146.1 million in funding to date.\n\nAs of February 2017, the total number of partners is 149 across 29 countries. Coursera mainly works with universities and colleges, but also with governments. University partners include University of São Paulo in Brazil, University of London in the UK, Indian School of Business of India, Yonsei University in Korea, and institutions like Yale and University of Pennsylvania.\n\nCoursera courses last approximately four to ten weeks, with one to two hours of video lectures a week. These courses provide quizzes, weekly exercises, peer-graded assignments, and sometimes a final project or exam. Courses are also provided on-demand, in which case users can take their time in completing the course with all of the material available at once. Coursera offered 104 on-demand courses.\n\nAs of 2017 Coursera offers full master's degrees. They first started with Master’s in Innovation and Entrepreneurship (OMIE) from HEC Paris and Master’s of Accounting (iMSA) from the University of Illinois, but have moved on to offer Master of Computer Science in Data Science and Master of Business Administration (iMBA), both from University of Illinois.\n\nAs of February 2017, Coursera had 24 million registered users signed up for its programs, and offered more than 2,000 online courses.\n\nIn September 2013, it announced it had earned $1 million in revenue through the sale of verified certificates that authenticate successful course completion. Coursera first rolled out a series of fee-based course options, which included verified credentials for completion, in 2013. As of October 2015, the company had raised a total of $146.1 million in venture capital.\n\nIn January 2016, Coursera rolled out fees to earn grades and assessment for “the vast majority of courses that are part of Specializations.” The company offers Financial Aid to people who demonstrate a need.\n\nIn July 2016, the company launched an enterprise product called Coursera for Business. TechCrunch notes that the company, \"opened itself to additional revenues from the lucrative corporate e-learning market, which some reports suggest was worth $12 billion in the US alone.\" Coursera for Business customers include L’Oréal, Boston Consulting Group, and Axis Bank.\n\nIn October 2016, Coursera launched a monthly subscription model for Specializations. The company has said subscription costs will vary, “depending on the topic area.”\n\nIn January 2017, the company launched Coursera for Governments & Nonprofits. Coursera has announced partnerships with the Institute for Veterans & Military Families (IVMF) in the United States and entities in Egypt, Mongolia, Singapore, Malaysia, Pakistan, and Kazakhstan. In June 2017, Jeff Maggioncalda became the CEO of Coursera.\n\nIn March 2018, Coursera launched six fully online degree courses including the bachelor’s and master’s qualifications.\n\n"}
{"id": "5583008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5583008", "title": "Doctor of Architecture", "text": "Doctor of Architecture\n\nThe Doctor of Architecture (D Arch) degree program is accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB). In the United States most state registration boards require a degree from an accredited professional degree program as a prerequisite for licensure. The National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB), which is the sole agency authorized to accredit U.S. professional degree programs in architecture, recognizes three types of degrees: the Bachelor of Architecture, the Master of Architecture, and the Doctor of Architecture. Doctor of Architecture and Master of Architecture degree programs may consist of a pre-professional undergraduate degree and a professional graduate degree that, when earned sequentially, constitute an accredited professional education. However, the pre-professional degree is not, by itself, recognized as an accredited degree.\n\nCurrently, the only University in the United States offering a Doctor of Architecture degree is the University of Hawaii at Manoa. The Doctorate of Architecture was first accredited by NAAB in 1999. Admission to the University of Hawaii program is open to students who have completed high school, transfer students who have completed some college-level work, and students who have completed Baccalaureate or advanced degrees. Completion of the degree requires 120 undergraduate credits and 90 graduate credits.\n\n"}
{"id": "7585564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7585564", "title": "Donald Revell", "text": "Donald Revell\n\nDonald Revell (born 1954 in Bronx, New York) is an American poet, essayist, translator and professor.\n\nRevell has won numerous honors and awards for his work, beginning with his first book, \"From the Abandoned Cities,\" which was a National Poetry Series winner. More recently, he won the 2004 Lenore Marshall Award and is a two-time winner of the PEN Center USA Award in poetry. He has also received the Gertrude Stein Award, two Shestack Prizes, two Pushcart Prizes and fellowships from the National Endowment for the Arts, as well as from the Ingram Merrill and Guggenheim Foundations. His most recent book is \"Drought-Adapted Vine\" (Alice James Books, 2015). He also recently published his translation of Arthur Rimbaud's \"A Season in Hell\" (Omnidawn Publishing, 2007).\n\nRevell has taught at the Universities of Tennessee, Missouri, Iowa, Alabama, Colorado, and Utah. He currently teaches at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. He lives in Las Vegas with his wife, poet Claudia Keelan, and their children. In addition to his writing, translating, and teaching, Revell was Editor of \"Denver Quarterly\" from 1988–94, and has been a poetry editor of \"Colorado Review\" since 1996.\n\nRevell received his B.A. in 1975 and his M.A. in 1977 from Binghamton University, and his Ph.D. from the University at Buffalo in 1980.\n\n\nPoetry Collections\n\nTranslations\n\nEssay Collections\n\nIn a retrospective review of Revell's work written by Stephen Burt for \"The Nation,\" he comments on \"Pennyweight Windows: New & Selected Poems\": Revell now seeks a poetry appropriate not only to loneliness but to anger and happiness, not only to freighted symbols but to facts, not only to doubt but to faith. What's more, he seems to have found what he seeks.\n\nIn \"TIME Magazine,\" Lev Grossman wrote about \"Pennywight Windows\": it takes guts to write more poems about peace, war, God and children, but Revell's are so fresh, it's as if he's the first person ever to do it. He makes you feel how painfully near grace and redemption are at all times, and yet how unattainable.\"\n\nThere is a theme here and in other reviews of Revell's recent books. Stephen Burts opens his review with a comment about how much Revell's work has changed in twenty years, noting the stylistic evolution, and the increasingly spiritual focus of Revell's work, which Grossman observes in his, and which Revell corroborates in an interview by \"Poets & Writers\": \"What's next for me? I am concerned with the governance of heaven, which is mostly silence. Living in Utah and Nevada, I take my current instruction from snow and sand. They are heavenly forms-substantial and effortless. May poems be so.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2925542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2925542", "title": "Dropping out", "text": "Dropping out\n\nDropping out means leaving high school, college, university or another group for practical reasons, necessities, or disillusionment with the system from which the individual in question leaves.\n\nIn Canada, most individuals graduate grade 12 by the age of 18, according to Jason Gilmore who collects data of employment and education using the Labour Force Survey. The LFS is the official survey used to collect unemployment data in Canada (2010). Using this tool, assessing educational attainment and school attendance can calculate a dropout rate (Gilmore, 2010). It was found by the LFS that by 2009, 1 in 12 20-24-year-old adults did not have a high school diploma (Gilmore, 2010). It was also found by the study that men still have higher drop out rates than women, and that students outside of major cities and in the northern territories also have a higher risk of dropping out. Although since 1990, dropout rates have gone down from 20% to a low of 9% in 2010, it does not seem to be dropping since this time (2010).\n\nThe average Canadian dropout earns $70 less per week than their peers with a high school diploma. Graduates (without post-secondary) earned an average of $621 per week, whereas dropout students earned an average of $551 (Gilmore, 2010).\n\nEven though dropout rates have gone down in the last 20–25 years, the concerns of the impact dropping out has on the labor market is very real (Gilmore, 2010). One in four students without a high school diploma who were in the labor market in 2009-2010 had less likelihood of finding a job due to economic, downturn (Gilmore, 2010).\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a dropout is anyone who leaves school, college or university without either completing their course of study or transferring to another educational institution. Dropping out of school is not allowed. Attendance at a school is mandatory until age 16 (GCSE exams) and students must be in some form of education or training (either full-time or part-time) until age 18.\n\nDropout rate benchmarks are set for each higher education institution and monitored by the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE), the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales (HEFCW) and the Scottish Funding Council (SFC). Dropout rates are often one of the factors assessed when ranking UK universities in league tables.\n\nIn November 2014, a report from the Institute for Fiscal Studies found that students from poorer home backgrounds were 8.4 percentage points more likely to drop out of university in the first two years of an undergraduate course than those from the richest homes; they were also 22.9 percentage points less likely to obtain a or first degree. For students studying on the same course and who arrived at university with similar grades, the differences fell but remained significant. The report concluded that more should be done both to raise the attainment levels of poorer students prior to their arrival at university and to provide additional support to them at university.\n\nIn the United States, dropping out most commonly refers to a student quitting school before he or she graduates or avoiding entering a university or college. It cannot always be ascertained that a student has dropped out, as he or she may stop attending without terminating enrollment. It is estimated 1.2 million students annually drop out of high school in the United States, where high school graduation rates rank 19th in the world. Reasons are varied and may include: to find employment, avoid bullying, family emergency, poor grades, depression and other mental illnesses, unexpected pregnancy, bad environment, lack of freedom, and boredom. \"The Silent Epidemic: Perspectives of High School Dropouts\" by Civic Enterprises explores reasons students leave school without \ngraduating. The consequences of dropping out of school can have long-term economic and social repercussions. Students who drop out of school in the United States are more likely to be \nunemployed, homeless, receiving welfare and incarcerated. A four-year study in San Francisco found that 94 percent of young murder victims were high school dropouts.\n\nThe United States Department of Education's measurement of the \"status\" dropout rate is the percentage of 16-24-year-olds who are not enrolled in school and have not earned a high school credential. This rate is different from the event dropout rate and related measures of the status completion and average freshman completion rates. The status high school dropout rate in 2009 was 8.1%. There are many risk factors for high school dropout. These can be categorized into social and academic risk factors. Members of racial and ethnic minority groups drop out at higher rates than white students, as do those from low-income families, from single-parent households, and from families in which one or both parents also did not complete high school. Students at risk for dropout based on academic risk factors are those who often have a history of absenteeism and grade retention, academic trouble, and more general disengagement from school life.\n\nIn Australia, dropping out most commonly refers to a student quitting school before he or she graduates. Reasons for students dropping out vary but usually include: Avoiding bullies, finding employment, family problems, depression and other mental illnesses, teenage pregnancy, substance abuse and in some cases even boredom. Researchers at Melbourne's Mitchell Institute has found that a quarter of Australian high school students are not graduating year 12, and that completion rates are much worse in remote or economically disadvantaged communities. Professor Teese believes the segregation of students in schools through geography as well as in the private and public systems means student disadvantage is stronger in Australia than other western nations such as New Zealand and Canada. Drop out rates vary throughout different locations in Australia. Students that attend school in remote communities have a higher chance of not completing year 12 (56.6%), whereas students that come from a wealthy background share an average completion rate of 90%. These remote schooling programs serve primarily indigenous students. Geography and lack of resources cause indigenous students to have lower rates of completion: the gap between indigenous and non-indigenous year 12 graduates is over 40 percentage points. As a result of this substantial difference, lower socioeconomic students who drop out are considered at-risk-students and are ultimately prone to unemployment, incarceration, low-paying employment and having children at early ages.\n\nWhen analysing the household surveys of some countries in the Latin American region – notably, those of Bolivia, Chile, Panama, Costa Rica, Nicaragua and Paraguay – researching the opinions of boys, girls, adolescents, young people as well as their families on the reasons they drop out of school, some recurring features surface that enable us to group the analyses into two main categories. The first is directly related to 'the material dimension' of education. In this case, financial difficulties are the main reason why families do not manage to keep their children and adolescents in school. The other major group of factors for school drop out falls into the 'subjective dimension' of the educational experience. Surveys revealed that 22% of out-of-school boys and girls aged 10 or 11 years state that they are in this situation because they have no interest in studying. This percentage jumps to 38% in adolescents aged 15 to 17 years who also provided this reason for their disengagement with the education system.\n\nA \"dropout recovery\" initiative is any community, government, non-profit or business program in which students who have previously left school are sought out for the purpose of re-enrollment. In the U.S., such initiatives are often focused on former high school students who are still young enough to have their educations publicly subsidized, generally those 22 years of age and younger. In Rwanda, dropout recovery is often focused on primary and ordinary level students who are still young to have their educations.\nDropout recovery programs can be initiated in traditional \"brick-and-mortar\" institutions of learning, in community centers or online.\n\nDropping out of high school can have drastic long-term economic and social repercussions, especially in Australia which has a less equitable education system than many other western countries. Therefore, different pathways and courses of study are being implemented by the government, non for profit organizations and private companies to offer a selection of education recovery plans for young adults around the age of 22 and below.\n\nStudents that drop out of high-school are generally those that struggle to engage behaviorally and/or academically. Although, it is not entirely clear whether different types of contextual or self-system variables affect students' engagement or contribute to their decision to drop out. According to data collected by the national education longitudinal study of 1988, Rumberger found that students with moderate to high absenteeism, behavior problems and having no school or outside activities were highly predictive of dropping out.\n\nUnder the pact of educational inclusion at the secondary level, how families organize themselves internally to produce well-being is an unavoidable topic for countries to address when seeking to broaden the effective opportunities of access to, retention in and graduation from the secondary education. Therefore, the construction of a new policy, the adolescent and the young person at school, is an acknowledgement of what is happening in reality and shapes a mutually beneficial alliance between the state and families to generate dynamics where young people can become exclusive recipients of care – at least until completion of their secondary schooling.\n\n"}
{"id": "32855523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32855523", "title": "Edward Gardiner Howe", "text": "Edward Gardiner Howe\n\nEdward Gardiner Howe was born in 1849 in Brookfield, Massachusetts. His family relocated to Chicago after several failed business ventures and eventually lost two properties, a farm and a family home, during the Great Chicago Fire in 1871. Howe returned to Massachusetts and studied at the Massachusetts Agricultural College in the early 1870s. He then became a science teacher and tutor for upper-class families such as the Burnhams and the Armors. He also authored two books about science education entitled \"Scientific Thinking\". Howe was so beloved by the families of his pupils that they funded a year’s sabbatical for his mental health in 1889. He spent this year doing geological research and resting in Portugal. He returned to teach in Chicago for several years before becoming principle of the University of Illinois Preparatory School in 1893. During his work as a private educator and as a principle, Howe invented the idea of field trips for science classes, a component of most modern primary and high school science courses today. He married fellow teacher Mary Elizabeth Barnard in 1881, and died in 1931.\n\n"}
{"id": "9476485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9476485", "title": "Elaine Alquist", "text": "Elaine Alquist\n\nElaine Kontominas Alquist (born August 21, 1944, in Chicago, Illinois) a former Democratic state senator from California's 13th Senate District. Prior to serving in the senate, she served in the state assembly for 6 years.\n\nThe 13th Senate District (SD 13) is the heart of Silicon Valley in Santa Clara County and includes the cities of San Jose, Santa Clara, Sunnyvale, Mountain View and Gilroy.\n\nShe was in office from December 2004 to December 2012. She succeeded John Vasconcellos, who himself succeeded Alquist's husband, the late Al Alquist, who represented the district for 30 years.\n\nAlquist graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree from MacMurray College in 1966 and a Master of Arts degree from Washington University in St. Louis in 1967. Her professional career began as an algebra and trigonometry teacher and a counselor in the public schools. In 1981, she served as PTA president and then beginning in 1983 served eight years as a member and then president of the board of education of the Cupertino Union School District.\n\nAlquist was elected to the California State Assembly's 22nd District in November 1996, and was re-elected to two consecutive terms in November 1998 and 2000.\n\nAlquist was elected to the California State Senate in November 2004 and served as state senator for District 13. Alquist was re-elected to a second term in 2008. Her final term ended in 2012, when she termed-out.\n\n"}
{"id": "8085722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8085722", "title": "Fluxnet-Canada Research Network", "text": "Fluxnet-Canada Research Network\n\nThe Fluxnet Canada Research Network is a research network of more than 100 scientists, graduate students and postdoctoral fellows from 15 Canadian universities and nine federal and provincial government laboratories. One of the priorities of FCRN is determining the factors that govern the time required for a forest to become a net carbon sink following disturbances such as harvest or fire. Tower-mounted meteorological equipment is used to measure carbon fluxes as well as water and energy exchange in 20 forested and seven peatland ecosystems in seven different provinces.\n\n"}
{"id": "25875853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25875853", "title": "Frames of Reference", "text": "Frames of Reference\n\nFrames of Reference is a 1960 black-and-white educational film directed by Richard Leacock, written and presented by Patterson Hume and Donald Ivey, and produced for the Physical Science Study Committee.\n\nThe film was made to be shown in high school physics courses and humor is employed both to hold students' interest and to demonstrate the concepts being discussed. In the film, University of Toronto physics professors Patterson Hume and Donald Ivey explain the distinction between inertial and noninertial frames of reference, while demonstrating these concepts through humorous camera tricks. For example, the film opens with Dr. Hume, who appears to be upside down, accusing Dr. Ivey of being upside down. Only when the pair flip a coin and it floats up does it become obvious that Dr. Ivey — and the camera — are indeed inverted.\n\n"}
{"id": "46258034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46258034", "title": "Frederic Woodman Root", "text": "Frederic Woodman Root\n\nFrederic Woodman Root (13 June 1846, Boston – 8 November 1916, Chicago) was an American composer, choir conductor, organist, adjudicator and music teacher.\n\nRoot was the son of George Frederick Root, who was known for composing Civil War songs. He studied music under BC Blodgett, William Mason, James Flint and Robert Goldbeck, and studied singing in New York City with Carlo Bassini and Luigi Vannuccini from Florence. From 1869 to 1870 he undertook a study tour of Europe.\n\nRoot composed songs, cantatas, an operetta, and other works, including many for use in singing and piano lessons. He wrote articles and essays for a number of music related publications. Root was the editor of the periodical \"Song Messenger\" for several years.\n\nRoot became a singing teacher, and published several textbooks for singing lessons, including \"The Pacific Glee Book\" with James R. Murray, \"The School of Singing\", and \"Root's New Course in Voice Culture and Singing\".\n\nRoot gave lectures to promote his teaching methods and opinions about music in general. In one of his speeches he characterized African American gospel songs as \"developed from the formless and untutored sounds of savage people... being hardly developed to the point at which they might be called music\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23823485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23823485", "title": "Gustaf Åbergsson", "text": "Gustaf Åbergsson\n\n\"Gustaf\" Fredrik Åbergsson née Åberg (1775–1852) was a Swedish stage actor, theatre director and principal of Dramatens elevskola. He belonged to the leading actors in the Swedish theatre history, called \"The Hamlet of Stockholm\".\n\nGustav Åbergsson was born to Jonas Åberg, footman at the royal court, and Fredrika Maria Svahn. His father is thought to have been the son of Beata Sabina Straas, the first professional native actress in Sweden to perform on a public stage in 1737, although this is unconfirmed.\n\nHe was a student at the French Theatre of Gustav III in Bollhuset, as his sister Inga Åberg, in 1786.\n\nAccording to popular legend, King Gustav III of Sweden originally placed him as a student in the Opera after having seen him in the park of Drottningholm Palace: after discovering that they shared the same name, the king asked him to sing a song. Gustav did so and blew kisses to the audience after, and the king had kissed him on his forehead.\n\nHe made his debut on the Royal Dramatic Theatre in 1788, but as he was not considered more than a pretty face at the royal stage, he instead performed on the Stenborg Theatre until he was finally given a contract at the royal theatre in 1798. He changed his name from Åberg to Åbergsson, because he wanted to avoid being connected to his scandal beauty-sister, Inga Åberg.\n\nGustav Åbergsson was described as beautiful, with a fine figure, posture and grace and an easy manner, and was often given hero- and lover parts: \"roles, which demands a beautiful body and pleasantness\". He had an easy and refined way of acting and reportedly pleased the audience \"By his attractive figure, his true way of acting and his refined manners.\" He made many study trips to Paris. In 1812, he was made prefect of the dramatic stage.\n\nIn 1819, he and his spouse played the leading parts in Romeo and Juliet, the first time this play was performed in Stockholm (though it had been performed in Norrköping in 1776).\n\nIn 1820–23, he was director of the Segerlind Theatre in Gothenburg. After this, he was instructor and, 1828–31, principal of Dramatens elevskola.\n\nHe retired in 1834.\n\nHe was married to the ballet dancer Margaretha Christina Hallongren (d. 1810) in 1793, and had a relationship with the star actress Carolina Kuhlman for several years before they married in 1815.\n\n"}
{"id": "47427310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47427310", "title": "Hannah Lowe", "text": "Hannah Lowe\n\nHannah Lowe (born 1976) is a British writer, known for her collection of poetry \"Chick\" (2013) and family memoir \"Long Time, No See\" (2015).\n\nLowe was born in Ilford, Essex, in 1976. She taught English, and went on to teach Creative Writing at Oxford Brookes University. She began writing poetry at the age of 29 after her Jamaican-Chinese father died and her English mother had a stroke, later reflecting: \"I had been suppressing a lot of grief over a sustained period of time and poetry... opened a door on that pain. I found that I could revisit the past in my poems, and contain it, or alter it even.\" Following a suggestion by John Glenday at a course in 2010, she began to write about her father and this formed her debut collection \"Chick\" (Bloodaxe Books, 2013). This work was shortlisted for the Forward and Fenton Adelburgh First Collection Prizes. In September 2014, the Poetry Book Society included Lowe in its list of Next Generation Poets, published each decade.\n\nLowe's family memoir \"Long Time, No See\" was published by Periscope in July 2015 and was featured on BBC Radio 4's \"Book of the Week\". Lowe cites Gerard Manley Hopkins, Anne Sexton, and Mark Doty as influences for her work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16675757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16675757", "title": "Jean-Baptiste Rondelet", "text": "Jean-Baptiste Rondelet\n\nJean-Baptiste Rondelet (4 June 1743 – 25 September 1829) was an architectural theorist of the late Enlightenment era and chief architect of the church of Sainte-Geneviève after the death of Jacques Germain Soufflot of cancer in 1780. \n\nRondelet published a treatise on architecture between 1805 and 1816.\n\n"}
{"id": "6306238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6306238", "title": "Joshua Clover", "text": "Joshua Clover\n\nJoshua Clover (born December 30, 1962 in Berkeley, California) is a professor at the University of California Davis. He is a published poet, scholar, critic, and journalist. He has appeared in three editions of \"Best American Poetry\" and two times in \"Best Music Writing\", and has received an individual grant from the NEA as well as fellowships from the Cornell Society for the Humanities, The University of California Humanities Research Institute, and Institute of Advanced Study, University of Warwick. His first book of poetry, \"Madonna anno domini,\" received the Walt Whitman Award from the Academy of American Poets in 1996.\n\nA graduate of Boston University and the Iowa Writers' Workshop, Clover is a Professor of English Literature and Critical Theory at the University of California, Davis, and was the distinguished Holloway poet-in-residence at the University of California, Berkeley in 2002-2003.\n\nHe writes a column on politics and popular culture, \"Pop and Circumstance,\" for The Nation. He has written columns for Film Quarterly, under the title \"Marx and Coca-Cola,\" and is a former senior writer and editor at the \"Village Voice.\" has contributed to \"The New York Times\", \"The Nation\", and the \"Los Angeles Review of Books\", and is a former senior writer for \"Spin\". His film criticism includes a book on \"The Matrix\" for the British Film Institute, and the Criterion Collection essays for \"Band of Outsiders\" and \"Straw Dogs\". Under the pseudonym \"Jane Dark,\" Clover contributed to a number of film and music reviews for various outlets.\n\nClover is also a political activist. In January 2012, he and eleven students at the University of California, Davis, engaged in a sit-in to protest the financial arrangements between U.S. Bank and the university. The protesters, who became known as the \"Davis Dozen,\" were charged with \"obstructing movement in a public place and conspiracy to commit a misdemeanor.\" One month before the trial was scheduled to begin, the Davis Dozen accepted a plea deal from the Yolo County District Attorney. Under the terms of that agreement, the protesters received an infraction notice ticket and agreed to perform 80 hours of community service.\n\nClover's given name at birth was Joshua Miller Kaplan but via legal change he took his mother's maiden name. \nHis mother, Carol J. Clover, is the originator of the final girl theory in a book on horror films and a professor emerita at the University of California at Berkeley.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39000860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39000860", "title": "Kwangmyong Encyclopedia", "text": "Kwangmyong Encyclopedia\n\nThe Kwangmyong Encyclopedia is a 20-volume encyclopedia published in North Korea. It includes more than 58,000 entries and 9,000 photos, pictures and maps.\n\n"}
{"id": "19011381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19011381", "title": "Les Dingodossiers", "text": "Les Dingodossiers\n\nLes Dingodossiers is a humorous series of comics created by French artists Marcel Gotlib (cartoonist) and René Goscinny (writer) first published in \"Pilote\" magazine from 1965 to 1967.\n\nThe term \"dingodossiers\" is a portmanteau of the two French words \"dingo\" or \"dingue\" (\"mad\") and \"dossiers\". As the title suggests, the series is composed of didactic dossiers with a very humorous tone. Each story consists of two to four strips drawn in black and white.\nThe strips deal with stereotypes and clichés and depict everyday life in a caricatured way. The stories are parodies and comic reports of scenes from marital and family life, work life, relations with neighbours, and holidays. A recurring character is Chaprot, a dunce pupil.\n\nMarcel Gotlib and René Goscinny met in 1965 when Gotlib joined the \"Pilote\" magazine whose leader was Goscinny. Together they launched the \"Dingodossier\" series, with 169 stories published in \"Pilote\" between 1965 and 1967. In 1967 Goscinny, who had given up many series to become involved in the successful \"Asterix\" series, invited Gotlib to continue the series on his own. Gotlib decided to stop the series in 1968 and launched the series \"Rubrique-à-Brac\", very similar to the \"Dingodossiers\", but with a slightly different tone and some innovations. Gotlib declared that if the \"Dingodossiers\" series hadn't existed, maybe he would not have not created the RAB series.\n\nThree albums were published by Dargaud: \"Les Dingodossiers Tome 1\" in 1967 and \"Les Dingodossiers Tome 2\" in 1972, then \"Les Dingodossiers Tome 3\" in 1995 composed of previously unpublished strips. In 2005, a compendium was published by Dargaud.\n"}
{"id": "2265012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2265012", "title": "List of libraries in Singapore", "text": "List of libraries in Singapore\n\nThis is a list of libraries in Singapore:\n\nThese libraries are managed by the National Library Board.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43779792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43779792", "title": "Margaret Cross", "text": "Margaret Cross\n\nMargaret Cross (22 December 1866 in Preston, United Kingdom – 14 March 1962 in Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire, UK) was a British educator and school principal, a pioneer of Co-education and of Steiner Waldorf education in Britain as well as of Biodynamic agriculture . Together with Hannah Clark she founded the Kings Langley Priory School, today the Rudolf Steiner School Kings Langley\n\nMargaret Frances Cross was born on 22 December 1866 in Preston, Lancashire. Her mother died when she was two years old and she was raised by her maternal grandmother until she, in her turn, died. She then moved to her father’s family who were farming in Cambridgeshire, completed her schooling and studied at the University of Cambridge. While at the university, she met Miss Hannah Clark, one of the pioneers of co-educational boarding schools in Britain and began to work at her school as assistant teacher. The two became partners until Hannah Clark’s death in 1934, though at some point she left England to further her studies in Vienna.\n\nWith Hannah Clark, Margaret Cross moved first of all to Overstrand in Norfolk as teacher of music and mathematics, then in 1899 to Coombe Hill House, East Grinstead in Sussex, where apparently, her father, now retired from farming, lived as a border. Here the two women developed their educational methods and values of mixed-sex education close to nature, with the practical tasks farming and animal husbandry, cooking, cleaning and washing forming an integral part of the lessons.\n\nIn 1909 the Priory in Kings Langley, London was acquired, with Margaret Cross listed as co-principal and responsible for much of the development work. The intention was to integrate into the education the principles of Maria Montessori, as particularly Margaret Cross was interested in modern methods of education and made it her business to attend conferences and keep abreast of developments. Then Margaret Cross was invited by Prof Millicent Mackenzie to join her with a group of other teachers from Britain, in attending a course of lectures on education by Rudolf Steiner in Dornach, Switzerland in December 1921. This was followed in April 1922 by a further course of lectures Steiner held, this time in England, during which period he visited the school in Kings Langley. It was this visit that prompted the two women to offer their school as the first to implement the ideas of Steiner’s education in Britain, a conversion that was to take place over many years.\n\nMargaret Cross began to concern herself with Anthroposophy and was present at the Christmas Foundation Meeting of the re-constituted Anthroposophical Society in 1923. It is not clear when she began to study and practice Biodynamic agriculture but in 1929 she joined the Agricultural Research circle of the Anthroposophical Society. Her initiative and research together with Ehrenfried Pfeiffer led to the founding of the Biodynamic Agricultural Foundation of Great Britain, today called the Biodynamic Agriculture Association. She was the editor of Stars and Furrows, the newsletter of the Biodynamic Foundation from 1935 until 1951.\n\nHer friend and lifelong co-worker, Hannah Clark, died in 1934, and tombstone is in the churchyard of the parish church of All Saints'. Miss Cross continued to run the school management together with a Miss Burton, who had joined them in 1915. Vera Compton-Burnett and her sister Juliet, sisters of the writer Ivy Compton-Burnett and daughters of the well-known homeopathic physician Dr James Compton-Burnett, were amongst the teachers at the school. The full conversion to Steiner education achieved its final step when the Rudolf Steiner New School moved into the Priory House site next door, gradually incorporating the old Priory and becoming the Rudolf Steiner School Kings Langley. Margaret Cross died in 1955 under the care of her friend and colleague Miss Burton.\n\n"}
{"id": "54572144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54572144", "title": "Michael Aiken", "text": "Michael Aiken\n\nMichael T. Aiken (born August 20, 1932) is a sociologist and professor who served as the 6th chancellor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and provost at the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nAiken received his bachelor's from the University of Mississippi in 1954 and his master's degree from the University of Michigan in 1955, and respectively his Ph.D. in 1964.\n\nAiken's career spans across multiple universities. After earning his Ph.D., Aiken was a professor at the University of Wisconsin until he eventually earned his full professorship in 1970. While at Wisconsin, Aiken held visiting professor positions at Columbia University, Washington University in St. Louis, and at Universite Catholique de Louvain in Belgium.\n\nIn 1984, Aiken was a chair of the sociology department at the University of Pennsylvania. A year later, he was named the dean of the School of Arts and Sciences. Before leaving Pennsylvania, he served as provost from 1987-1993.\n\nAiken was then appointed as the chancellor of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1993 and served until his 69th birthday in 2001. Under his leadership, the Grainger Engineering Library was dedicated, and the university made efforts to create a research park. In addition, Aiken recommended that Chief Illiniwek be removed as a mascot from the university.\n"}
{"id": "34968248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34968248", "title": "Modern College of Management", "text": "Modern College of Management\n\nThe Chanakya College of Management (CCM) (previously Modern College of Management) is the first management college in the Bhaktapur district of Nepal running under Chanakya Educators Bhaktapur Pvt Ltd, established in 2008. It is affiliated to HSEB for 10 plus 2 levels and Tribhuvan University for BBS. The college plans to extend its faculty up to Master's Degree in Management.\n\nThe classrooms accommodate not more than 35 to 40 students.\n\nFood is provided by the college cafe. Hot and cold drinks and snacks are available.\n\nBus services are available from Kathmandu, Bhaktapur, Kavrepalanchok and Lalitpur.\n\nSports activities include volleyball, basketball, table tennis and other indoor games.\n\nField trips and hiking are arranged to domestic tourist attractions. An annual picnic is held to give opportunities for students' socialization.\n\nMonthly progress reports on homework, note presentation and classroom performance are sent to parents.\n\n"}
{"id": "28327851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28327851", "title": "National Union of Students Black Students' Campaign", "text": "National Union of Students Black Students' Campaign\n\nThe National Union of Students Black Students' Campaign is a self-organised autonomous section of the National Union of Students (NUS). The NUS Black Students' Campaign represents students of African, Asian, Arab and Caribbean heritage.\n\nThe National Union of Students Black Students' Campaign sets it policy at its annual democratic event, the Black Students' Campaign Summer Conference.\nThe four priority areas for the Campaign are Black Representation, Anti-Racism and Anti-Fascism, Equality in Education and International Peace and Justice.\n\nCommittee Members are elected representatives that help form the leadership of the Campaign and help implement policy. There are seventeen positions on the committee, elections for each position take place annually at the Summer Conference. It is only possible to occupy any one position for a maximum of two years. Each position holds one vote on the National Committee.\n\nThe NUS Black Students’ Campaign National Committee elected to serve between 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2014 is as follows:\nThe National Black Students’ Officer for the NUS Black Students’ Campaign is an elected full-time paid position who coordinates and leads the Campaign. The elected Officer also sits on the NUS National Executive Council. Malia Bouattia began her term of office as of July 2014. Bouattia succeeds twice-elected Aaron Kiely who completed the maximum limit of two terms in office.\n\nThe Black Students' NEC Representative sits on the NUS National Executive Council alongside the National Black Students’ Officer and is elected by all delegates at the NUS Black Students’ Campaign Summer Conference.\n\nNUS Scotland and NUS Wales each have a Black Students’ Officer elected by students resident at Scottish and Welsh institutions respectively. These Officers sit on the NUS Black Students’ Campaign National Committee as well as the NUS Scotland Executive Council and NUS Wales Executive Council. Both nations have their own independent committee and steering committees.\n\nThe Further Education representatives are elected by delegates who are in Further Education to represent FE students. To be eligible to stand to be a further education representative, the candidate must be in further education at the time of election. There are two reserved positions on the National Committee for Further Education students.\n\nThe disabled representative is elected by a caucus of delegates to the NUS Black Students’ Campaign Summer Conference by delegates who self-define as disabled.\n\nThe women's place representatives come from and are elected by a caucus of delegates who self-define as women. There is currently one reserved position on the National Committee and one reserved place for women from further education institutions and one reserved place for LBT women.\n\nThe LGBT place representatives come from and are elected by a caucus of delegates who self-define as Lesbian, Gay, Bi, Trans. There is currently one reserved position on the National Committee and one reserved place for a Black LGBT person who also self-defines as a woman.\n\nThe open place representatives are elected by delegates and any delegate or observer is eligible to stand for these positions at the Summer Conference. There are three open place representative positions on the National Committee. They are elected by all delegates at the NUS Black Students’ Campaign Summer Conference.\n\nMature, Postgraduate and international students are guaranteed representation on the National Committee. There are reserved positions for Black mature, Postgraduate and international students - with one Committee place reserved for each. Each position is elected by students at the Summer Conference by caucuses made up of students who define into those respective sections.\n\nThe Winter Conference is a two-day training event held in the first academic term for Black students across the UK.\n\nThe Summer Conference is an opportunity for Black student activists from across the UK to come together to set the direction for the campaign for the year ahead, to attend workshops and hear speakers, and to network with other Black students. It is the NUS Black Students’ Campaign’s democratic event.\n\nOne of the key functions of the conference is to debate, pass policy which forms the basis of NUS Black Students’ Campaign campaigning agenda for the year ahead. Motions and amendments may be submitted by Black students from NUS constituent members.\n\nAt the conference there is the annual NUS Black Students’ Campaign Awards, which started in 2005, to help promote and support outstanding achievements of Black students in campaigning for liberation.\n\nOfficers and committee members are elected at the annual Summer conference by delegates.\n\nThe first full-time National Black Students’ Officer was elected in 2002, after NUS Annual Conference voted to change the constitution in order for the position to be created. Previously the position was part-time.\n"}
{"id": "1215553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1215553", "title": "National University of Colombia", "text": "National University of Colombia\n\nThe Universidad Nacional de Colombia () is a public, national, coeducational, research university, located primarily in Bogotá, Medellín, Manizales and Palmira, Colombia. Established in 1867 by an act of the Congress of Colombia, the university is the largest higher education institution of the country with more than 44,000 students, the largest number of graduated professionals per year, and number of academic programmes at undergraduate and graduate levels, with 430 academic programmes, which includes 96 graduate diplomas, 67 academic specializations, 39 medical specialties, 161 master's degrees, and 58 doctorates. It is also one of the few universities that employs post-doctorate fellows in the country. Approximately 40,000 students are studying for an undergraduate degree and 4,000 for a graduate degree. The National University of Colombia is one of the best universities in Colombia and Latin America, for its high degree of education and research achievement in several rankings of universities in Latin America and around the globe.\n\nThe university is a member of the Association of Colombian Universities (ASCUN), the Iberoamerican Association of Postgraduate Universities (AUIP), and the Iberoamerican University Network Universia. Along with Antioquia and Valle universities, it is part of what is known as the \"Golden Triangle\" of higher education in Colombia, being among the most selective and competitive universities in the country. A study by SCImago Research Group found that the National University of Colombia produces the largest number of scientific papers published in peer-refereed publications, and the 17th most prolific in Latin America. Furthermore, according to the Latin-American Web Ranking of Universities, the National University of Colombia ranks first place in internet presence in the country. It is also among the first universities in the region. Among the universities of CIVETS countries, the National University occupied second place.\n\nThe institution offers a wide selection of programmes in both undergraduate and graduate levels, such as medicine, nursing, dentistry, engineering, chemistry, pharmacy, mathematics, physics, geology, biology, psychology, social sciences, arts (music, fine arts), languages, philosophy, and law. Being the first university in Colombia to open a Computer Science program.\n\nThe University City of Bogotá (), also known as the White City (), is the flagship University campus. It is located in the Teusaquillo locality, northwest of the historical center. It is also the largest campus in Colombia, with an extension of and a constructed area of , making it an ample campus with several green areas, open spaces, and pedestrian paths. Among its buildings there are 17 which have been declared national monuments and, as a whole, it is a representation of the last 60 years of architecture in Colombia.\n\nThe campus was designed by German educationalist Fritz Karsen and architect Leopold Rother, both refugees from Nazi Germany. The construction began in 1935, under the government of Alfonso López Pumarejo. It is organized as an ellipse, divided into five parts, each containing one of the academic divisions and its respective dependencies. From an aerial view, a shape of an owl can be seen, emblematic of a deep connection with wisdom and intuitive knowledge. The buildings were constructed as prismatic blocks, and painted white, in order to give an austere and clean look.\n\nSome landmarks in the campus are the León de Greiff Auditorium, and the \"Francisco de Paula Santander\" Plaza, also known unofficially as the \"Central Plaza\" or the \"Ché Plaza\", in honor of Ernesto \"el Ché\" Guevara. The campus has its own stadium, where sometimes matches for the Colombian Professional Football are held.\n\nThe National University of Colombia, Medellín has two campuses, the Central Campus and Campus Robledo, where 10,447 students study. This site provides approximately 29% of the seats for new students at National. Also this site has 555 faculty professors, of which 38% are doctors, 44% are master's, 8% were specialists and 10% are Professionals. This site offers 26 undergraduate and 73 graduate courses: 15 PhDs, 28 Masters, and 29 specializations. \n\nIts history has given Medellín a peculiar character, since it was formed as most of their universities from the classical degrees of Law, Medicine, Arts and Sciences. The site grew out of engineering programs, which is why today, the Medellín has the highest number of engineering programs (17) among the campuses of the National University of Colombia and Colombia in general. \n\nCentral Campus: Located northwest of downtown, between Cerro Ecoparque the Flyer and the Medellín River. It is since 1938 the headquarters of the National University of Colombia in Medellin when the School of Tropical Agriculture (now the Faculty of Agricultural Sciences) joined the University. The Central Campus has an area of 272,982 m², the heart of Rio has an area of 31,758 m² and a portion of Cerro El Flying is around 269,257 m². Several learning centers can be found in at the campus including the Entomological Museum which was founded in 1937, the Museum of Mycology founded in 1987, the Herbarium \"Gabriel Gutierrez,\" the wood collection, the Central Library \"Efe Gomez\" as an attractive artistic and architectural highlights, the Totem Mythic created by Master Pedro Nel Gomez, Block 41 declared a National Cultural, designed by Engineer Jesús Montoya Mejía which began in 1931, the Block 11 Master designed by Pedro Nel Gómez. \n\nCampus Robledo Robledo, also called core or more colloquially as the School of Mines, is located northwest of the city of Medellin, Robledo neighborhood is composed of three fields separated by Kr 80, which presents a difficult high traffic pedestrian connection between the properties that make up the physical structure of the School of Mines, and Ingeominas, recently integrated into the University. It has an area of 100,978.69 m². In 1886, the School of Mines was created and it was incorporated with the University in 1936, which is called today as the National School of Mines with approximately 3,500 students. It highlights the Museum of Geosciences, Maximum classroom buildings (block M5) and M3 block designed by Master Pedro Nel Gomez School of Mines in 1936. Declared National Monument in 1994 thanks to its architecture and its murals by the same Pedro Nel Gómez. The University in Medellin has 5 faculties of the schools offer 25 careers, nearly half of them are engineering at the School of Mines, also has three museums and other services. \n\n The National University of Colombia has 20 schools distributed among Bogotá, Medellín, Manizales and Palmira:\nDepartments in Bogotá:\nInterfaculty institutes\nMuseums in Bogotá Campus:\nHigh school (for children of professors, students, and employees):\nDepartments in Medellín:\nMuseums in Medellín Campus:\nInstitutes:\nMedia:\n\nFamous personalities among its alumni include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1980618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1980618", "title": "Norman Dubie", "text": "Norman Dubie\n\nNorman Dubie (born April 10, 1945 in Barre, Vermont) is an American poet.\n\nHe is the author of twenty-eight collections of poetry. Dubie's work often assumes historical personae and has been included in \"The New Yorker\", \"Ploughshares\", \"The Paris Review\", \"FIELD\", \"Narrative,\" \"The American Poetry Review,\" \"The Fiddlehead,\" and \"Blackbird\", an online journal of literature and the arts. His work has been included in numerous Norton anthologies of poetry.\n\nWith his latest collection of poems, \"The Quotations of Bone\", published in 2015 by Copper Canyon Press, Dubie is the international recipient of the 2016 Griffin Poetry Prize. The poems in this collection confront viciousness in its many forms.\n\nDubie is the recipient of numerous honors and awards. These include fellowships from the National Endowment for the Arts and the Ingram Merrill Foundation, the Bess Hokin Prize from \"Poetry\" Magazine and the Modern Poetry Association, and the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Award. In 2002, he won the PEN Center USA prize for his collection, \"The Mercy Seat: Collected and New Poems.\" Dubie is a graduate of Goddard College and the Iowa Writer's Workshop. He teaches in the graduate Creative Writing Program at Arizona State University, in Tempe, Arizona, where he is Regents' Professor of English.\n\nThe Tucson-based band Calexico have stated that Dubie's poetry was very influential on their album \"Carried to Dust\", particularly the song \"Two Silver Trees\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7785425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7785425", "title": "Open Court Reading", "text": "Open Court Reading\n\nThe Open Court Reading Program is a core Language arts/English series used in a large number of elementary schools classrooms. It was one of two reading programs adopted for use in California schools when textbooks were last chosen in 2002. The other was Houghton-Mifflin Reading. For the 2008 Edition, Open Court Reading's name was changed to Imagine It!.\n\nThe series is published by McGraw-Hill Education.\n\nThere is both praise and criticism of the program among educators. Proponents of Open Court Reading believe that its focus on phonics and reading comprehension strategy use, both taught with very explicit instruction, benefit children. Some critics dislike the explicit nature of instruction, suggesting that it leaves little room for child exploration or teacher creativity, as constructivist models of reading instruction such as whole language. Success for All, a whole-school reform model that includes reading has been studied extensively, but Open Court has been tested experimentally far less.\n\n"}
{"id": "33982507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33982507", "title": "Oral exam", "text": "Oral exam\n\nThe oral exam (also oral test or ; in German-speaking nations) is a practice in many schools and disciplines in which an examiner poses questions to the student in spoken form. The student has to answer the question in such a way as to demonstrate sufficient knowledge of the subject to pass the exam. The oral exam also helps reduce (although it does not eliminate) the risk of granting a degree to a candidate who has had the thesis or dissertation ghostwritten by an expert.\n\nMany science programs require students pursuing a bachelor's degree to finish the program by taking an oral exam or a combination of oral and written exams to show how well a student has understood the material studied in the program. Usually, study guides or a syllabus are made available so that the students may prepare for the exam by reviewing practice questions and topics likely to be on the exam. There is a small but growing body of literature on the use of oral examinations in undergraduate education in the English speaking world. \n\nSome medical schools use oral exams for second and third year students to test knowledge but also the ability to respond on the spot. Students are required to take an oral exam prior to being awarded a PhD. Some universities allow the option of either taking written and oral exams or completing a project or thesis, but occasionally, all three are required for graduation. Oral exams are distinct from a defense of a thesis in that the questions in the latter are more narrow and specific to the topic of the thesis.\n\nGraduate students are sometimes allowed to choose their examiners for oral exams.\n\nSometimes, the oral exam is offered in schools as an alternative to a written exam for students with a learning disability, like dysgraphia, developmental coordination disorder, or non-verbal learning disorder. Often parents of the students have to request that the oral exam be given to their child in lieu of the written exam.\n\nA Private Pilot Oral Exam is also required as part of the FAA and CAA practical test for prospective pilots. An oral exam is also carried out by the Maritime and Coastguard Agency in the UK for the purpose of issuing certificate of competencies for Merchant Navy deck and engine officers.\n\nThe \"viva voce\" is a component of music diploma examinations administered by ABRSM, Trinity College of Music and London College of Music. Candidates are posed a series of questions by the examiner about their chosen pieces, the composer and musical era. Depending on exam board, candidates may also be required to do a short writeup on their pieces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48417434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48417434", "title": "Patricia Hannaford Career Center School District", "text": "Patricia Hannaford Career Center School District\n\nPatricia A. Hannaford Career Center, also known as Hannaford Career Center, is a vocational educational pre-professional facility located at 51 Charles Avenue in bucolic Middlebury, Vermont. Programs include: Addison Repertory Theater (Technical and Performance Theater), Architecture & Engineering Design, Automotive Technology, Culinary Arts, Design & Illustration, Diesel Power Technology, Forestry and Natural Resources, Human Services, Industrial Design & Fabrication, Medical Professions, and Sustainable Agriculture.\n\nThe Career Center became independent of Addison Central Supervisory Union in the early 2000s. It is an independent school district and supervisory union with Lynn Coale acting as both director and superintendent.\n\nThe school serves Union District #3 Middlebury Union High School, Mt. Abraham Union High School, and Vergennes Union High School. However, programs such as the pre-professional theater training may be accessed by any Vermont student as long as the student can provide transportation to the site.\n\n"}
{"id": "37441502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37441502", "title": "Peer to Peer University", "text": "Peer to Peer University\n\nPeer 2 Peer University (P2PU) is a nonprofit online open learning community which allows users to organize and participate in courses and study groups to learn about specific topics. Peer 2 Peer University was started in 2009 with funding from the Hewlett Foundation and the Shuttleworth Foundation, with its first of courses in September of that year. An example of the \"edupunk\" approach to education, P2PU charges no tuition and courses are not accredited. However, some courses in \"The School of Webcraft\" provide the opportunity for recognition of achievements through the Open Badges project.\n\nP2PU offers some of the features of massive open online courses (MOOCs), but is focused on people sharing their knowledge on a topic or learning about a topic offered by another user with a DIY wiki-type mentality. Unlike typical massive open online courses, anyone can create a course as well as take one. Additionally, because of its less hierarchical nature, P2PU activities need not necessarily be \"Courses\"; the admin of the learning environment can select from \"Study Group\" and \"Challenge\" as well as creating their own term.\n\nP2PU's peer to peer philosophy is meant to put a \"social and pedagogical wrapper\" around open access and educational materials. There is some evidence to suggest that greater social participation in P2PU may lead to more invested learning than other online education. For instance, in an early P2PU course on cyberpunk literature, research noted \"a shift from the subject-authority pattern of relations generally associated with teacher-led education to the agential pattern of relations associated with peer-led education.\" Class participants communicate live through technologies such as Skype and IRC as well as asynchronously through the P2PU website, allowing geographically dispersed classmates to have discussions.\nP2PU is organized into \"Schools\" which include:\n\nP2PU's school of Webcraft courses were early adopters of a badge reward system, and with their task completion system there are elements of gamification and gamification of learning.\n\nSome of the courses that have been or are currently being offered include:\n\n\nThe main learning management system for P2PU courses is called Lernanta (the Esperanto word for \"learning\"). It is written in Python using the Django web framework, and is developed and maintained by P2PU's community and staff. One P2PU study group, \"Introduction to Contributing to Lernanta\", is designed to help people become Lernanta contributors. A fork of the Mozilla Foundation's Batacuda software that powers drumbeat.org, Lernanta is available under the Mozilla Public License, the GNU GPL, and the LGPL. P2PU also hosts a wiki and an OSQA server for questions and answers.\n\nP2PU is hosting and coordinating the MOOC joint-venture \"Mechanical MOOC\" which is a blend of open online resources. The first Mechanical MOOC class will be “A Gentle Introduction to Python,” which is part M.I.T. OpenCourseWare, instant-feedback exercises and quizzes from Codecademy, and study groups organized by OpenStudy, while P2PU handles central communication such as email and discussion. Mechanical MOOC is less tightly structured than traditional MOOC offerings that are backed by Universities, and offers no accreditation. Yet the initiators claim that this comes with an advantage they will capitalize on: if a student falls behind, they may repeat units at their own pace to catch up.\n\nThe founding members of P2PU are Delia Browne, Neeru Paharia, Stian Haklev, Joel Thierstein and Philipp Schmidt. The organization is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit with funding from The Hewlett Foundation, The Shuttleworth Foundation, and University of California Irvine.\n\nSchmidt explained in a video interview that P2PU came to be when he and his friends, later to become his co-founders, attempted to put the championed open educational resources to the test, and try to learn from them. They selected a topic they were unfamiliar with, Psychology, and set up weekly calls, to try to learn as a group with the materials. Schmidt says it was \"incredibly hard,\" and \"what's more important is the social aspect, that bond that forms between people, and the content is really just the beginning of the learning experience.\"\n\nPlans for P2PU were announced in October 2008. The first set of courses was originally planned to begin in January 2009, but the official launch was delayed until September 2009. The project was initially supported by a $70,000 grant from the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation.\n\nIn September 2009, P2PU ran seven pilot courses with a total of 227 participants. As of September 2011, P2PU claims \"a community of about 1,000\" and has over 50 courses open for sign-up.\n\n"}
{"id": "57062570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57062570", "title": "Pontifical Committee for Historical Sciences", "text": "Pontifical Committee for Historical Sciences\n\nThe Pontifical Committee of Historical Sciences is a division of the Roman Curia established on 7 April 1954 by Pope Pius XII. \n\nPope Pius XII created this Committee on 7 April 1954 as the successor to the Commission of Cardinals for Historical Studies, which Pope Leo XIII had created on 18 August 1883 with the apostolic letter \"Saepenumero considerantes\". That commission was created to contribute to the development and proper use of historical sciences, especially late in the nineteenth century when parts of the Vatican's historical records, known as the Vatican Secret Archive, was opened to scholars. The new Committee was created to foster cooperation with the International Committee of Historical Sciences, which was scheduled to hold its convention in Rome in 1955.\n\nThe Committee is charged with promoting the use of ecclesiastical archives for historical research and fostering cooperation with ecclesiastical and extra-ecclesial institutions and associations, particularly at the international level. It sponsors seminars and conferences, both independently and in concert with peer organizations; reviews the historical data presented in the \"Pontifical Yearbook\"; collaborates with multinational scientific initiatives (UNESCO); and sponsors internships for the study of Latin and Greek.\n\nIn 2011, the Committee held a conference devoted to St. Catherine of Siena. In 2012 it marked the 1700th anniversary of the Battle of Ponte Milvio with a conference called \"Constantine the Great. To the roots of Europe\". A 2014 conference considered the legacy of Pope Pius X. In 2017, the Committee sponsored a three-day conference called \"Luther: 500 Years Later\" to examine the non-theological context of the origins of the Protestant Reformation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1307929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1307929", "title": "Rafael Moneo", "text": "Rafael Moneo\n\nJosé Rafael Moneo Vallés (born 9 May 1937) is a Spanish architect. He won the Pritzker Prize for architecture in 1996 and the RIBA Royal Gold Medal in 2003. \n\nBorn in Tudela, Spain, Moneo studied at the ETSAM, Technical University of Madrid (UPM) from which he received his architectural degree in 1961. From the Davis Art Museum at Wellesley College in Massachusetts and the Audrey Jones Beck Building (an expansion of the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston). Moneo also designed the Chace Center, a new building for the Rhode Island School of Design. In December 2010, the Northwest Corner Building (formerly the Interdepartmental Science Building) at Columbia University in New York City first opened. Moneo's most recent work is Peretsman-Scully Hall and the Princeton Neuroscience Institute, which houses the psychology and neuroscience departments at Princeton University and opened in December 2013.\n\nIn 2012, he was awarded with 2012 Prince of Asturias Award for the Arts. According to the jury, Moneo is \"a Spanish architect of universal scope whose work enriches urban spaces with an architecture that is serene and meticulous. An acknowledged master in both the academic and professional field, Moneo leaves his own mark on each of his creations, at the same time as combining aesthetics with functionality, especially in the airy interiors that act as impeccable settings for great works of culture and the spirit.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "582691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=582691", "title": "Retraction", "text": "Retraction\n\nA retraction is a public statement made about an earlier statement that withdraws, cancels, refutes, or reverses the original statement or ceases and desists from publishing the original statement. \n\nThe retraction may be initiated by the editors of a journal, or by the author(s) of the papers (or their institution). Retractions are in some cases accompanied by apologies for the previous error and/or expressions of gratitude to persons who disclosed the error to the author.\n\nA retraction of a published scientific article indicates that the original article should not have been published and that its data and conclusions should not be used as part of the foundation for future research. The most common reasons for the retraction of articles are scientific misconduct including plagiarism, serious errors, and duplicate/concurrent publishing (self-plagiarism). The retraction may be initiated by the editors of the journal, or by the author(s) of the papers (or their institution). A lesser withdrawal of content than a full retraction may be labelled a correction. There have been numerous examples of retracted scientific publications. Retraction Watch provides updates on new retractions, and discusses general issues in relation to retractions.\n\nA 2011 paper in the \"Journal of Medical Ethics\" attempted to quantify retraction rates in PubMed over time to determine if the rate was increasing, even while taking into account the increased number of overall publications occurring each year. The author found that the rate of increase in retractions was greater than the rate of increase in publications. Moreover, the author notes the following:\"It is particularly striking that the number of papers retracted for fraud increased more than sevenfold in the 6 years between 2004 and 2009. During the same period, the number of papers retracted for a scientific mistake did not even double...\" (p. 251). Although the author suggests that his findings may indeed indicate a recent increase in scientific fraud, he also acknowledges other possibilities. For example, increased rates of fraud in recent years may simply indicate that journals are doing a better job of policing the scientific literature than they have in the past. Furthermore, because retractions occur for a very small percentage of overall publications ( fewer than 1 in 1,000 articles ), a few scientists who are willing to commit large amounts of fraud can highly impact retraction rates. For example, the author points out that Jan Hendrik Schön fabricated results in 15 retracted papers in the dataset he reviewed, all of which were retracted in 2002 and 2003, \"so he alone was responsible for 56% of papers retracted for fraud in 2002—2003” (p 252).\n\nRetraction Watch is a blog that reports on retractions of scientific papers and on related topics.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29874613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29874613", "title": "Royal Commission on Scientific Instruction", "text": "Royal Commission on Scientific Instruction\n\nThe Royal Commission on Scientific Instruction and the Advancement of Science or the Devonshire Report was a Royal Commission of the United Kingdom that sat from 1870 to 1875.\n\nThe Commission was appointed in May 1870, chaired by the Duke of Devonshire and included Lord Lansdowne, Sir John Lubbock, Sir James Kay-Shuttleworth, Bernhard Samuelson, William Sharpey, Thomas Henry Huxley (Professor of Natural History at the Royal School of Mines), William Allen Miller (Professor of Chemistry at King's College, London), and George Gabriel Stokes (Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge). Norman Lockyer served as Secretary to the Commission.\n"}
{"id": "47677426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47677426", "title": "Shree Radha Damodar Gyan Jyoti Sanskrit Higher Secondary School", "text": "Shree Radha Damodar Gyan Jyoti Sanskrit Higher Secondary School\n\nShree Radha Damodar Gyan Jyoti Sanskrit Secondary School is a government Higher Secondary school at Rimaldihi in Sankhar VDC, Syangja District, Nepal. Established in 2037 B.S. with initiation from local village leaders, it has served continuously to the development of education and literacy in the area.\n\nThe school spreads over an area of 150,000 square meters with a large playground for the students to play and do interactive activities in the break-time.\n\n"}
{"id": "11225379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11225379", "title": "Special Class for the Gifted Young", "text": "Special Class for the Gifted Young\n\nThe Special Class for the Gifted Young is a program aimed to select gifted young students to enter the universities in China. First established in 1978 at the University of Science and Technology of China, it was a major innovation in China's higher education. The idea was suggested by renowned scientists such as Tsung-Dao Lee, C. N. Yang, and Samuel C. C. Ting, and supported by the then Vice-premier of the State Council Fang Yi. The objective of the class is to explore the most efficient ways to nurture promising youth. Peking University, Tsinghua University, Nanjing University, Wuhan University, Jilin University and Huazhong University of Science and Technology also launched similar programs. But they were all shut down for all kinds of reasons. For now, only the University of Science and Technology of China and Xi'an Jiaotong University still have this program.\n\nBy October 2006, the Special Class for the Gifted Young of the University of Science and Technology of China has enrolled a total of 1134 exceptionally gifted youth, 942 of whom have already graduated.\n\nWith the success of the class, a new class was established and adjoined to the original class in 1985, namely \"The Experimental Class of Teaching Reform\", more popularly known as the Double Zero Class, which is conducted under the same guiding spirit as the Special Class for the Gifted Young. This class has now become an integral part of the program. In 2008, the Special Class for the Gifted Young combined with the Experimental Class of Teaching Reform and the Experimental Class of Innovation became the School of the Gifted Young. The three classes now select students in different ways, while the admitted students receive the same training from the school.\n\nThe Special Class for the Gifted Young upholds the guiding principle of \"\"selecting talents despite their age and cater to their individual potentials\".\" The curriculum aims to strengthen the foundation courses and an all-round education in the first two years, and in the later years allow students to enjoy wide latitude in developing their potentials and interest. Students are encouraged to attend seminar courses, sign up for the various \"\"student research projects\",\" and participate in their professors' research projects. This kind of real research environment not only provides valuable opportunities for them to apply what they have learned in the classroom and give their initiative and creativity full play, but also enhances the spirit of teamwork and cultivates personal integrity.\n\nThe past two decades has proven the success of the program. Its students have won numerous prizes in such international and national contests. 80 percent of its graduates have been enrolled in postgraduate programs at home or abroad, one third of whom have already obtained doctoral degrees. Its graduates have now spread all over the world. Among them are the 31-year-old and 34-year-old full professors at Harvard University, the 40-year-old US National Academy of Sciences member, the 31-year-old IEEE fellow and the president of Baidu, the discoverer of the smallest possible carbon nanotube, winners of the U.S. Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers, TR35 innovators selected by MIT Technology Review and so on.\n\nThe Special Class for the Gifted Young is the traditional and original program of its kind with strict age limit. For instance, to enroll in 2016, a student must have a birth date after January 1, 2000. Prospective students must first pass the National College Entrance Examination in China, and then the final test arranged by USTC, which mainly focuses on the student's ability in mathematics and physics. Approximately 40 to 50 students are admitted every year to the class.\n\n\nThe Experimental Class of Innovation was established in 2008, with relatively weak age limit. For instance, to enroll in 2016, a student must have a birthdate after January 1, 1999.\n\nMore popularly known as the Double Zero Class (Chinese: 零零班), the Experimental Class of Teaching Reform selects students with regular process, so there is no age limit. It admits the best among the students already admitted by the university. Students in USTC have another chance to be admitted to this class, if they perform extremely well in the university's examination for all newly admitted students.\n\nIn 1985, Xi'an Jiaotong University established a special class for gifted youth called Honors Youth Program of Xi'an Jiaotong University (Chinese: 西安交大少年班, also translated as Special Class for the Gifted Young of Xi'an Jiaotong University, a name usually confused with the equivalent in the USTC). The class aims to select talents and explore ways to nurture promising youth without the widely criticized Gaokao and other standardized tests. Every January, XJTU holds tests and interviews for thousands of 9th grade applicants from all over mainland China and admits about 140 students. Youth Class students first study high school courses in High School Affiliated to Xi'an Jiaotong University, Suzhou High School-SIP, or Tianjin Nankai High School. After passing final exams of high school courses, students can directly become undergraduates of XJTU without taking Gaokao. After passing final exams of undergraduate courses, students can directly enter the master's degree programs at XJTU without taking the Postgraduate Admission Test. Alumni of Youth Class include Zhou Hongyi, co-founder of Chinese antivirus software company Qihoo, Xi Chen, a Presidential Scholar and associate professor at Columbia University, and Haitao Zheng, a 2005 TR35 innovator selected by MIT Technology Review.\n\nThe Jilin University Gifted Young (吉大少年班) program began in 1985 and continued into late 90's, enrolling 10 to 20 each year. In the first few years, the students shared dorm rooms and were given special care for their well being in contrast with the adult students who weren't. The students had a few majors to choose from on their entry. In 1985 and 1987, some chose Physics, some chose Mathematics and the rest chose Computer Science. In 1988, all 21 students were in Computer Software. There were no enrollments in 1986. From 1989 to the end of the program, instead of living together, the newly enrolled students settled down with their adult classmates and barely received the special care as their seniors did.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7169099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7169099", "title": "St. Xavier's College, Maitighar", "text": "St. Xavier's College, Maitighar\n\nSt. Xavier's College, Maitighar, in Kathmandu, Nepal, is an educational institution in Nepal run by the Society of Jesus (Jesuits) since 1988. It offers intermediate level high school courses (grades 11 and 12) through the Cambridge A-levels and 10+2 programmes, as well as Bachelor's and Master's degrees in natural science, business, social science, and humanities.\n\nJesuits began their educational work in Nepal in 1951. St. Xavier's College functioned as an evening Intermediate Science from the premises of St. Xavier's School, Jawalakhel, Lalitpur in the initial years, and later moved to its own building at Maitighar, Kathmandu, in 1993. For the first eight years, the only course offered was Intermediate in Science, in affiliation with Tribhuvan University. In 1996 the three-year Bachelor of Science in Social Work, the first of its kind in Nepal, was established in conjunction with Kathmandu University. In 1997 a B.Sc. in Environmental Science was offered but after three years discontinued admitting students. Since then bachelor's degrees have been added in Business Studies and Physics in 2002, in Information Management in 2003, and in 2007 in Computer Science and Information Technology, Microbiology, and B.A. in English, Journalism and Social Work. In 2007 also five master's degree programs were established, in Physics, Microbiology, Business, Social Work, and English. In 2009 Higher Secondary School Level (+2) was initiated and in 2011 Cambridge A-levels.\n\nThe College moved to Maitighar Heights in 1988 and the first new building, the Academic Block, was built in 1993. The construction of the Administration Block was completed in 1998, followed by that of Watrin Hall and the Library Block in 2000. To cater to the needs of the two IT-based degree programs, and to provide all students with computer facilities, four computer laboratories were constructed, with a total of 203 internet-connected computers. The E.L. Watrin Memorial Building was built in 2005, linking the Academic Block with the Administration Block. A rooftop cafeteria was built in 2006. In 2009 a six-storey building housing modern laboratories for physics, chemistry, botany, zoology, and microbiology and social studies. There is also a sports hall that doubles as an auditorium. The College celebrated its silver jubilee in 2013.\n\nToday, the College has approximately 3,000 students coming from 275 schools representing all 75 districts and almost all the ethnic, linguistic, and cultural diversity of Nepal. One of the innovative outreach programs is the Partnership in Education (PIE) established in 2004. PIE works in partnership with government schools for the development of the academically weak students in the lowest income brackets, accommodating approximately 300 students annually.\n\nA typical admission profile of St. Xavier's can be correlated to their admission criteria for intermediate programmes (grades 11 and 12) which is extremely competitive. Every year more than 13,000 students from throughout Nepal apply and around 500 students are enrolled. In 2012 of the 685 selected 520 enrolled, with a median GPA of 3.9/4.0. The admission process includes a preliminary cutoff score at the School Leaving Certificate national exam – equivalent of GCSE, an analytic Multiple Choice examination, and an interview with college personnel.\n\nFor the first eight years, the college had offered an Intermediate in Science course. Bachelor's and master's level courses affiliated with Tribhuvan University and Kathmandu University have been running other courses as well. In the year 2009, Intermediate in Science was terminated and Higher Secondary Level (+2) science stream was initiated in affiliation with the Higher Secondary Education Board, Nepal. This level of education is the main reason for this college to acclaim its reputation in the country. The college has completed its sixth year of the +2 program with facilities including a well-equipped laboratory, library, cafeteria, and basketball court. The Higher Secondary Level (+2) science program has offered only two sub-streams: Biology and Physics with 10 different sections(A to J).Section A to Section F are biology sections and remaining are physics sections. All the students of +2 science study a similar combination of five subjects (physics, chemistry, biology, mathematics, and English) in grade XI and in grade XII biology students study physics, chemistry, biology, English, and Nepali, whereas physics students study physics, chemistry, mathematics, English, and Nepali.\n\nThe GCE A-Levels started at St. Xavier's College from 2011 A.D. which is affiliated with the University of Cambridge International Examinations. In 2017, it became an Independent Center/ Cambridge International School. There are numerous facilities including well-equipped laboratory, library, cafeteria, and basketball court. The offered courses are Physics, Chemistry Mathematics, Biology, Computer Science, Accounting, Economics, Business Studies, General Paper.\n\nThe college has a Society established by the students named St. Xavier's A-Level Society (SAS) which mobilizes the students for independent course work and a collaborative teamwork in addition to leadership.\n\nThe undergraduate courses started after 8 years the college was established. As of 2017, there are 7 undergraduate and 3 graduate level courses, in Microbiology (M.Sc Microbiology), Physics (M.Sc Physics) and MBS.\n\nThe college encourages its students in undergraduate and graduate level to engage in activities through the establishment of various clubs: UDAAN, Social Service Club, St. Xavier's Solidarity Movement, Sports Club, Physics Club, Chemistry Club, Social Service Environment Club (SET), Art and culture club,Literature club.\n\nThe college set up its Alumni Association on its 25th year of its establishment in 2013. The Alumni Committee looks after and handles all the activities as the St. Xavier's College, Kathmandu - Alumni.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1719128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1719128", "title": "Stephen R. Bissette", "text": "Stephen R. Bissette\n\nStephen R. \"Steve\" Bissette (born March 14, 1955) is an American comics artist, editor, and publisher with a focus on the horror genre. He is known for working with writer Alan Moore and inker John Totleben on the DC comic book \"Swamp Thing\" in the 1980s.\n\nBissette was born and raised in Vermont, where he still lives, and was raised Catholic.\n\nShortly after the publication of his first work, \"Abyss\" (1976), Bissette enrolled in the first class of The Kubert School. Before his first year was completed, his work was being published professionally in the pages of \"Sojourn\", \"Sgt. Rock\", and \"Heavy Metal\". In 1978, Bissette was among the Kubert School's first graduating class, along with classmates Rick Veitch, Tom Yeates, and others.\n\nWhile still enrolled at The Kubert School, Bissette executed the logo for early New Jersey synth-pop band WKGB and drew the cover for the band's 1979 single \"Non-Stop/Ultramarine\" on Fetish Records (UK Fetish 002).\n\nHis early work appeared in the pages of \"Heavy Metal\", \"Epic Illustrated\", \"Bizarre Adventures\", Scholastic Corporation's \"Weird Worlds\" and \"Bananas\" illustrating stories written by Goosebumps founder and author R. L. Stine, and he worked with Rick Veitch on the graphic novelization of Steven Spielberg's motion picture \"1941\".\n\nBissette is best known for his multiple award-winning collaboration with writer Alan Moore and inker John Totleben on DC Comics' \"Saga of the Swamp Thing\" (1983–1987).\n\nUnder the company name of Spiderbaby Grafix, he later published the horror anthology \"Taboo\", the original home of Moore and Eddie Campbell's \"From Hell\" and Tim Lucas' \"Throat Sprockets\" illustrated by Mike Hoffman and David Lloyd. He created \"Tyrant\", a comic book biography of a \"Tyrannosaurus rex\", which lasted four issues. During this period, he edited the horror anthology \"Gore Shriek\", published by FantaCo Enterprises.\n\nSince 1991, Bissette has presented a lecture series on horror comics called \"Journeys into Fear\". Having since grown in scope into a five-part series, \"Journeys into Fear\" identifies 12th Century Japanese ghost scrolls and the 16th Century Mixtec codices as early ancestors, and traces the genre from its roots in Winsor McCay's work such as \"Dream of the Rarebit Fiend\". In 1996–1997, Bissette contributed five covers for a comic book series about another swamp monster, Hall of Heroes' \"Bog Swamp Demon\".\n\nBissette subsequently worked with Moore, Totleben, and Rick Veitch on the Image Comics' limited series \"1963\", their final creative collaborative effort. From \"1963\", Bissette owns the characters Hypernaut, N-Man, and the Fury.\n\nScott McCloud's 24-hour comic project began as a dare to Bissette in 1990. Each created a 24-page comic in 24 hours. The 24-hour comics project evolved into a challenge taken up by numerous hopeful contributors, with several published collections, and inspired other time-limited creative projects. Bissette published the story \"A Life in black and white\" in his own comic book anthology \"SpiderBaby Comix\" #2 (SpiderBaby Graphix, 1997). \n\nIn 1993, Bissette co-edited with Stanley Wiater \"Comic Book Rebels: Conversations with the Creators of the New Comics\" (Dutton, ), which featured interviews with such notable comics creators as Scott McCloud, Harvey Pekar, Dave Sim, Howard Cruse, Will Eisner, Peter Laird, Kevin Eastman, and Robert Crumb.\n\nBissette retired from the comics industry in 1999, alluding to what he termed a \"generational shift.\" He teaches courses in Comic Art History, Drawing, and Film at the Center for Cartoon Studies in White River Junction, Vermont, where he co-curates with Denis St. John the CCS/Main Street Museum ARTifacts Film Series.\n\nSince 2005, Bissette has also edited and published \"Green Mountain Cinema\", a trade paperback journal devoted to the independent cinema scene in his home state of Vermont, as well as five volumes of \"Blur\", collecting his film reviews and criticism.\n\nThe Stephen R. Bissette Collection at Henderson State University in Arkadelphia, Arkansas, houses Bissette's works and memorabilia.\n\nBissette's work with Alan Moore and John Totleben earned the 1985 \"Best Single Issue\" Jack Kirby Award for \"Swamp Thing Annual\" #2, and the 1985, 1986, and 1987 Jack Kirby Awards for \"Best Continuing Series\" for \"Swamp Thing\". His work with John Totleben earned them the 1985 \"Best Art Team\" Jack Kirby Award for \"Swamp Thing\". \"Taboo\" won the \"Best Anthology\" Eisner Award in 1993.\n\nHis work with Alan Moore and John Totleben earned a nomination for the 1985 \"Best Single Issue\" Jack Kirby Award for \"Swamp Thing\" #34. Bissette and Totleben earned nominations for the 1986 and 1987 Jack Kirby Awards for \"Best Art Team\" for their work on \"Swamp Thing\". Bissette and Moore were nominated for the 1986 Jack Kirby Award for \"Best Writer/Artist (Single or Team)\". Bissette was nominated for the \"Best Editor\" Eisner Award in 1993 for \"Taboo\" and received an Inkpot Award in 1997.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "24946443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24946443", "title": "Teacher Plus (magazine)", "text": "Teacher Plus (magazine)\n\nTeacher Plus is an Indian magazine for schoolteachers. \n\n\"Teacher Plus\" is published monthly with a distributed team of writers, editors and photographers across India. It has a readership of approximately 25,000. \"Teacher Plus\" includes a pullout sheet of activities or a poster in every issue. The articles include both academic and practical perspectives on topics such as classroom management, teaching methods, and extra-curricular activities. The magazine also reviews educational websites.\n\n\"Teacher Plus\" first started as a bi-monthly in Hyderabad in 1989,1989 by Orient Longman. The magazine then adopted a tabloid format in 2002. Later in 2007, Spark-India bought \"Teacher Plus\" and converted it into a monthly magazine with a new design and cover. Finally, in 2010 Dr. Usha Raman, who is a communications professional, became the editor of \"Teacher Plus\" after taking it over from Spark-India. Wipro Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS) began funding \"Teacher Plus\" in development, production and distribution costs since 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "42336133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42336133", "title": "Teachers' World", "text": "Teachers' World\n\nTeachers' World was a British publication of the first half of the 20th century which featured a range of teaching material, poems and short stories for children. It is most associated with Enid Blyton who contributed heavily to it in the 1920s and 1930s.\n"}
{"id": "47538175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47538175", "title": "Tiago do Vale", "text": "Tiago do Vale\n\nTiago do Vale () is a Portuguese architect. He heads the architectural practice Tiago do Vale Architects.\n\nDo Vale was born in 1978 in the north of Portugal. He enrolled in the University of Coimbra's Department of Architecture in 1996 studying, among others, under Fernando Távora and Gonçalo Byrne. He went on to integrate the University of Coimbra's managing bodies, both as a Senator and as an Assembly Member.\n\nPostgraduate on Advanced Studies in Architectural Heritage by the Porto School of Architecture.\n\nTiago do Vale regularly lectures and writes about architectural matters.\n\nDo Vale was curator of the 2014's \"Urban Dialogues, International Architecture Congress\", in Portugal; the 2015 \"Mesturas, International Architecture Encounters\", in Spain; the 2016 \"Mesturas II, International Architecture Encounters\", in Portugal; the 2017 \"Mesturas III, International Architecture Encounters\", in Spain; and the 2018 \"Mesturas IV, International Architecture Encounters\", in Portugal.\n\nHe was juror for the 2016 and 2017 DAS Awards in Moldavia, and for the 2016 and 2017 editions of the João de Almada Award in Portugal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7085773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7085773", "title": "Timeline of planetariums", "text": "Timeline of planetariums\n\nThis is a timeline of planetariums:\n"}
{"id": "40464712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40464712", "title": "University of Cambridge in popular culture", "text": "University of Cambridge in popular culture\n\nThroughout its modern history, the University of Cambridge has featured in cultural works. Here below are some notable examples.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3914048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3914048", "title": "Victor Silvester", "text": "Victor Silvester\n\nVictor Marlborough Silvester OBE (25 February 190014 August 1978) was an English dancer, author, musician and bandleader from the British dance band era. He was a significant figure in the development of ballroom dance during the first half of the 20th century, and his records sold 75 million copies from the 1930s through to the 1980s.\n\nSilvester was born the second son of a vicar in Wembley, Middlesex. He was educated at Ardingly College, St. John's School, Leatherhead and John Lyon School, Harrow, from all of which he absconded. In September 1916 he enlisted in the British Army during the First World War and served as a private in the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders. He lied about his age to the recruiting authorities, stating this as 20 when in fact he was only 16. He took part in the Battle of Arras in April/May 1917, and also was a member of five execution squads, where deserters, some no doubt suffering from shell-shock, were shot.\n\nOnce his age was discovered, he was immediately withdrawn from the front and sent back to the military base at Etaples. After two weeks he was transferred to the First British Ambulance Unit For Italy. On 4 September 1917 at Sella di Dol near San Gabriele, while acting as a stretcher bearer to evacuate wounded Italian servicemen during a heavy bombardment by the Austrians and Germans, he was injured in the leg by a shell burst but refused medical treatment until the other wounded had been attended to. For his gallantry on this occasion he was awarded the Italian Bronze Medal of Military Valour in a decree by the Italian Minister of War dated 30 November 1917. In a letter to Silvester's parents dated 20 September 1917, his Commandant in the First British Ambulance Unit, the noted historian G. M. Trevelyan, wrote: \"He is certainly one who will be deservedly loved wherever he goes in life, and he is besides made of sterling stuff.\"\n\nAfter the war he studied at Worcester College, Oxford for a year. He decided to resume a military career when he was offered a place at the Royal Military College, Sandhurst, but he quickly decided it was not for him. He also studied music at Trinity College, London, having already had private piano lessons as a child.\n\nHis interests had meanwhile turned to dancing. He was one of the first post-war English dancers to feature the full natural turn in the slow waltz. This innovation was a factor in his winning the first World Ballroom Dancing Championship in 1922 with Phyllis Clarke as his partner. He married Dorothy Newton a few days later.\n\nHe competed again in 1924, coming second to Maxwell Stewart – the inventor of the double reverse spin in the waltz – and Barbara Miles. He was a founding member of the Ballroom Committee of the Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing which codified the theory and practice of Ballroom Dance – now known as the International Style – and published the first book embodying the new standards in 1927. This was \"Modern Ballroom Dancing\", which became a best-seller and has remained in print through many editions, the last issued in 2005.\n\nHe went on to open a dancing academy in London, which eventually developed into a chain of 23 dance studios. By the early 1930s his teaching had become famous and he had taught some of the top celebrities of the day, among whom was Estelle Thompson, better known as Merle Oberon. Victor had his own BBC television show through the 1950s, called \"BBC Dancing Club\", and was later the President of the Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing.\n\nThe lack of what he felt were adequate records for dancing led Silvester in 1935 to form his own five-piece band, later enlarged and named \"Victor Silvester and his Ballroom Orchestra\", whose first record, \"You're Dancing on My Heart\" (by Al Bryan and George M. Meyer), sold 17,000 copies and was to become his signature tune. He insisted his recordings conform precisely to the beats per minute recommended by the ISTD for ballroom dances, a concept termed \"strict tempo\". In British eyes he became indelibly associated with the catch-phrase \"slow, slow, quick-quick-slow\" – a rhythm that occurs in the foxtrot and quickstep.\n\nThe Silvester band always had a distinctive sound, achieved by an unusual line-up including, as well as the usual rhythm section, alto saxophone (initially Charlie Spinelli and later, for 26 years, Edward Owen \"Poggy\" Pogson, who had previously played in Jack Payne's and Jack Hylton's bands), a lead solo violin (for many years usually Oscar Grasso), and not one but two pianos, one taking turn in solos and the other maintaining an improvised tinkling continuo in the background throughout every piece, which Silvester called his \"lemonade\". This piano sound is said to have been created for him by the pianist/ later bandleader and BBC radio star Felix King.\n\nHe notes in his autobiography that his first two pianists in 1935 were Gerry Moore for the melody and Felix King for the \"lemonade\". Later pianists included, at different times, Monia Liter, Charlie Pude, Jack Phillips, Billy Munn, Victor Parker (also accordion), Ernest \"Slim\" Wilson (who was also Silvester's main arranger, and with whom he co-wrote several pieces), Eddie Macauley and Ronnie Taylor. Silvester's drummer for over four decades was Ben Edwards, crucial for supplying the strict tempo. Sometimes there might be four saxophones altogether, two alto and two tenor, including in latter years Tony Mozr, Percy Waterhouse and Phil Kirby in addition to Pogson, all doubling on clarinet as required. On some recordings, the Ballroom Orchestra was augmented with 15 strings and woodwind, when it became \"The Silver Strings\". During the war, when Oscar Grasso was in the forces, the classical violinist Alfredo Campoli took his place, using the name \"Alfred Campbell\" for contractual reasons.\n\nThese were first-class players, some of whom (like Liter, Grasso and Pogson) were already noted in jazz or danceband circles before they joined Silvester's band. Unlike most British dance bands of the era, there were no vocals. Silvester usually did not play (he was a violinist), but stood in front of his orchestra in white tie and tails, conducting with a flourish.\n\nHe would continue to make music for half a century, mostly covering the popular music standards and show tunes, sometimes (but rarely) swing, trad jazz and in latter years, especially from 1971 when the orchestra continued under his son Victor Silvester Jr, rock and roll, disco and pop. These later attempts to stay \"with it\" involved the introduction of an electric guitar, but it is mostly the more melodic recordings of the 1940s and 1950s that are now reissued on CD and still sold widely.\n\nSilvester's record sales were so huge that competition was inevitable. Other dancers were attracted to the idea, and set up their own strict-tempo bands. Henry Jacques, Maxwell Stewart, Josephine Bradley and Wally Fryer were all top-flight dancers who set up in competition to Silvester. There were other bands led by musicians who were capable of recording in strict time. The best for ballroom competitions was probably Joe Loss, who had an even longer musical career than Silvester. Other bands that catered to ballroom dancing were Oscar Rabin and Jack Harris, whose band played in clubs and restaurants through the 1930s, Phil Tate, and Jack Parnell. For the post-war period of Latin dances to (mostly) Cuban and Brazilian rhythms, Edmundo Ros was in a class of his own.\n\nBy 1958, when he published his autobiography, he was the most successful dance band leader in British musical history, and a major star on British radio and television. His BBC Television show \"Dancing Club\" lasted 17 years. He also presented a weekly request programme on the BBC Overseas Service (later World Service) which ran from 1948 to 1975. His obituary in \"The Times\" noted, \"Turn on a radio in Famagusta, Cape Town or Peking and one would be likely to hear his music issuing from the speakers\".\n\nHe was the subject of \"This Is Your Life\" in 1957 when he was surprised by Eamonn Andrews at the BBC Television Theatre.\n\nVictor Silvester was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in 1961. He died while on holiday in the south of France at the age of 78. The orchestra remained in existence under his son's direction until the 1990s. Victor, his wife and son are memorialised at Golders Green Crematorium, London.\n\nThe Victor Silvester Archive - which includes his OBE and First World War medals and related original documents and correspondence, his many other accolades such as his four Carl Alan Awards for services to dancing and his BBC Radio Golden Microphone Award, the complete archive of programme sheets for his orchestra's BBC broadcasts, platinum and silver discs for his orchestra's record sales and the orchestra's entire archive of original hand-scored strict tempo sheet music - was sold at auction in London in March 2000 and is now held in a private collection in Northern England.\n\n\nAlso published were sheet music arrangements.\n\n"}
{"id": "43306923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43306923", "title": "Workshops for Careers in the Arts", "text": "Workshops for Careers in the Arts\n\nWorkshops for Careers in the Arts was a professional training program especially designed for artistically talented teenagers which took place on the campus of The George Washington University in a joint collaboration. Designated a pilot program, Workshops for Careers in the Arts was created in June 1968 by Peggy Cooper Cafritz and Mike Malone as a means toward the establishment of a public high school for the arts in Washington, D.C..\n\nThere were three departments in the school program at the start of its formation. They were in Drama/Theatre, Dance, and Visual Arts/Painting. These departments serviced qualified area students after their normal home school day, on weekends during the academic year, and full time during the summer months. Roughly ninety (90) students were enrolled during the inaugural years. Funding eventually became increasingly available as lobbying, grants, enrollment, contributions, and stellar reputations regarding the program significantly increased.\n\nStudents were accepted on the basis of recommendations from area Principals, Teachers, Parents, interviews, and auditions. Talented students who could not otherwise afford such training were given top priority. Workshops for Careers in the Arts enrolled and had diverse students from all over the Washington Metropolitan region. No student was required to pay a tuition.\n\nUpon leaving the program, the students were encouraged to continue their career training. Workshops for Careers in the Arts students began to achieve collegiate full scholarships and receive contracts toward higher education. The George Washington University, The Washington School of Ballet, The North Carolina School of the Arts, The Juilliard School and Howard University were some of the very first illustrious institutions to receive Workshops for Careers in the Arts graduates. Some graduates had opportunities to start professional careers in their field soon after their departure from the program.\n\nWorkshops for Careers in the Arts showed the need for and the results of specialized vocational training in the arts. As more successful Workshops for Careers in the Arts years past, which included the need for an additional space location on Georgia Avenue at Morton Street, N.W., the Washington community made this opportunity available to their young people on a much broader scale. In the process during 1974, the Duke Ellington High School at Western High School in Washington, D.C. was born. The goal was achieved.\n\nDuke Ellington School of the Arts was established as an accredited four (4) year public high school curriculum, combining arts and academics in the Nation's Capital.\n\nThanks to the brilliant Staff, Faculty, Students, and Alumni of Workshops for Careers in the Arts.\n\n"}
