{"id": "23791060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23791060", "title": "1937 peasant strike in Poland", "text": "1937 peasant strike in Poland\n\n1937 peasant strike in Poland, also known in some Polish sources as the Great Peasant Uprising () was a mass strike and demonstration of peasants organized by the People's Party and aimed at the ruling \"sanacja\" government. It was the largest political protest in the Second Polish Republic, taking place in 12 voivodeships of the Second Polish Republic. It is estimated that several million peasants took part in the demonstrations, and the strike was supported not only by Polish peasants, but also by the Ukrainian and Belarusian farmers, who made a majority in eastern part of the Second Polish Republic.\n\nBy mid-1930s, Poland, a country with a large agricultural sector, was significantly affected by the Great Depression, with peasants being one of the most affected groups. Polish peasantry, especially in overpopulated areas of Lesser Poland, was desperately poor. Prices of food products fell down, which resulted in smaller profits for the peasants. In some provinces, the countryside went backwards to the 19th century, with imminent prospect of hunger. Unemployment among youth in villages was widespread, and this grew radicalization and frustration of the impoverished people. Furthermore, the increasingly more authoritarian government (\"sanacja\") was losing public support. Immediately after the May Coup, some leaders of peasant parties hoped that cooperation with the new government was possible. However, further events, such as destruction of Centrolew, arrest of Wincenty Witos, and the ill-fated 1930 election deeply disappointed all of them. In response to the actions of the government, in 1931 a new political party of the peasants, agrarian People's Party (\"Stronnictwo Ludowe\", SL) was created out of three smaller parties. SL leaders, who by mid-1930s became more radical, emphasized quantity of numerous Polish peasantry and its physical strength. They claimed that peasants were real hosts of the country.\n\nIn an attempt to wrest political power, the SL was organizing a series of large demonstrations and strikes; those were often met with government opposition; over the years violent incidents occurred, leading to fatalities. Peasants' protests were frequent, and in all cases they were brutally suppressed by the sanacja regime. Among most notable events of this kind was a large wave of strikes, which took place in 1932-33 in southern Poland, in the area of Lapanow, Lesko, and Ropczyce. Instead of negotiating, the government would send armed police or units of the Polish Army, which pacified villages and sometimes killed the demonstrators. It has been estimated that across 1930s, around 100 peasants were killed by the security forces.\n\nThe idea of the strike did not meet with unanimous approval. Marginal Communist Party of Poland (\"Komunistyczna Partia Polski\", KPP) threw its weight behind the strike, but right wing National Party (\"Stronnictwo Narodowe\", SN) was opposed to it. Crucially, Polish Socialist Party (\"Polska Partia Socjalistyczna\", PPS) declined to participate in it, so despite KPP support, the strike did not spread to the cities, as SL hoped. Notheless some worker strikes did occur during that period. Even within SL not all activists were convinced it was a good idea; it was supported by Wincenty Witos and Stanisław Mikołajczyk, but criticized by Maciej Rataj.\n\nThe decision to start the strike was the effect of new tactics, worked out during the Extraordinary Congress of the People's Party (SL), which took place on January 17, 1937, in Warsaw. On that day it was decided that if the government did not meet demands of the SL, a general peasant strike would be introduced. Participants in the Congress signed an appeal which demanded democratization of the country, amnesty for politicians sentenced in the Brest trials, and changes in the Constitution. The strike was prepared by Stanisław Mikołajczyk, also by Wincenty Witos, who had been forced to leave Poland and lived in Czechoslovakia. Using his couriers, Witos sent advice and instructions.\n\nPrelude to the strike took place on April 18, 1937, when peasants organized a large demonstration in the fields of Raclawice, site of a 1792 battle (see Battle of Raclawice), in which Polish units consisted of several peasant soldiers. On that day, thousands of people gathered, unaware of the fact that Minister Felicjan Slawoj-Skladkowski had forbidden public demonstrations and meetings. The rally was attacked by the police, which killed 3 peasants.\n\nAugust 15 was the Holiday of Peasant Activity (\"Święto Czynu Chłopskiego\")., a holiday introduced to honor participation of Polish peasants in the Polish-Soviet War. On that day, numerous rallies took place, during which a 10-day nationwide peasant strike was announced. These rallies were carefully organized, as they were supposed to show the power of peasant movement of Poland. One of the biggest events of this kind took place on the market square in Kolbuszowa. Those present marched with green flags of Polish peasants. During speeches, people were urged to start open struggle until full victory, like back in 1920. Peasants were told that the Miracle at the Vistula was not a miracle, but victory of peasant soldiers. Chants such as \"Down with the sanacja government\" were heard, also calls for release of political prisoners. Participants in the strike pledged not to send food to towns and cities, and also block roads. Timing was crucial, as in mid-August, old food supplies in the cities had been exhausted, and deliveries of new goods were expected to cover shortages. SL activists, who created \"Peasant Order Guard\" (\"Chlopska Straz Porzadkowa\") watched the roads, urging all peasants not to weasel out of the strike. The biggest August 15 rallies took place in Jarosław, Grebow, Dębica, Przeworsk, Bochnia, and Ciezkowice.\n\nThe strike begun on August 16, 1937, and lasted (as planned) till August 25. SL leaders kept the date of the beginning of the strike as top secret. In his memoirs, an SL activist from Bochnia wrote: \"Everything was carefully prepared. Members of Kraków's district of the party came to our village, instructing us what to do and how to act in case of trouble. We were told to light bonfires on August 14, as a sign that a large meeting of peasants was approaching\". Rallies were organized not only in villages and towns, but also in cities. In Kraków, on Sunday, August 15, thousands of peasants with banners and orchestras gathered in the Jablonowski Square. A peasant from Bienczyce, Jakub Pszczola, gave a speech, in which he announced that the strike would begin on the next day. After his speech, leaflets were spread among those gathered, and peasants began singing their informal anthem \"Gdy naród do boju\" (\"When The Nation Fights\"). The leaflets informed about demands of the strikers, such as dissolution of the Parliament, release of political prisoners, change of the Constitution, and just distribution of social goods.\n\nEven though SL leadership hoped that the action would cover whole country except for border and ethnically mixed areas, in reality it was successful only in southern part of historical province of Lesser Poland (Małopolska) region, with major events taking place in eastern counties of the Kraków Voivodeship, and western counties of the Lwów Voivodeship, particularly in the Jarosław County, where the SL structures were the strongest. Peasant demonstrators blockaded roads and stopped food transports to the cities, and at first, the government tolerated the action, regarding it as legal, and convinced that the SL would not be able to expand the protest. Also, as Felicjan Slawoj-Skladkowski stated later, SL leadership had assured that the strike would be of peaceful character. Therefore, Skladkowski had left for a two-week vacation in France, leaving Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski in charge. This indicated that the government, even though aware of the strike, did not plan to use force. One of peasant activists from the area of Sandomierz wrote later: \"In every village there was a strike committee, with deputies in case of arrests. There were self-reliance organizations, which collected food and money for those incarcerated. Also, families of arrested activists were offered help during the harvest time\".\n\nAfter a few days, however, this stance was changed and terror was introduced. The change was also spurred by the actions of the peasants themselves, who had become more radical. SL activists created groups of 4 - 10 mostly young men, who were armed with sticks, and watched all roads. They did not hesitate to use force against the strikebreaker, beating them, killing their horses, destroying produce, and overturning their wagons. In some cases, radical activists attacked houses of the strikebreakers. In the course of the time, the strike turned into an uprising, which was noticed by activists of the Polish Communist Party, who appeared in the area, with their propaganda (in their appeal to the nation, the communist stated \"Let the cities and villages die! Long live the nationwide strike! They will not arrest millions\"). First skirmishes took place in the area of Jarosław on August 17, where members of the \"Peasants' Order Guard\" fought the police. On the same day, in Grebow near Tarnobrzeg, first peasant was killed. In response, the peasants blocked the main road of southern Poland, route Kraków - Lwów (in the area of Brzesko), where transport of all goods was halted. Local police commandant wrote in his report: \"On the roads and in their vicinity there are gangs of peasants armed with knives, sticks, perhaps guns. We are defenseless against them. Today, they have formed a march of around 500, which started from Wielka Wies. On the way, more people joined them. Economy in our area has been completely paralyzed. We are requesting help and awaiting orders\". General Marian Kukiel wrote to Wladyslaw Sikorski: \"The police are completely exhausted. There are losses. There are no police units in Kraków. If the communists were a significant force, they would be taking advantage of this situation\".\n\nActions of the police were described as cruel and barbarian. Officers beat peasants, their wives and children with batons, rallies were dispersed, and during revisions in houses, furniture and goods were destroyed. The police, of whom 108 were wounded, never tried to negotiate, instead, they used not only batons, but also guns, firing at the crowds without warning. Approximately 5,000 peasants were detained, 617 arrested, and in some cases, violence on both sides lead to fatalities (44 peasant demonstrators were killed during the strike, 15 of them coming from the village of Majdan Sieniawski, in Przeworsk county). Among counties with most people arrested, there were:\n\nAbout 700 farms were pacified, as the police used the doctrine of collective responsibility. The number of wounded is difficult to estimate, as in many situations, the peasants did not go to hospitals, fearing arrest. Nevertheless, despite the repressions, the peasants showed their strength, determination and organizational abilities. SL leaders deliberately chose not to organize the strike in the border areas of the country - Pomerania, Upper Silesia, Volhynia, and the areas of Tarnopol and Wilno, as deterioration of social situation in those strategic and vulnerable provinces, inhabited by ethnic minorities, was unwanted by them. Also, since SL structures in Mazovia, Podlasie, Greater Poland, and northern Lesser Poland (areas of Kielce, Lublin, and Radom) were not as strong as those in the south, the strike there was of a limited character and did not evolve into a mass protest.\n\nSince the mutual violence of the peasants and the police, among whom there were units of freshly created riot police, was getting out of hand, on August 20 SL leadership decided to stop the strike. The police, which at first was shocked at the magnitude of the protest, took their revenge, pacifying villages and beating participants. This in return provoked hatred of the villagers. First processes of the arrested peasants began in December 1937 in the court in Przemyśl. Altogether, around 1000 people were sentenced to up to 5 years. Many of them stayed behind bars until September 1939, when prison guards left their posts behind, escaping the advancing German troops.\n\nThe strike failed to shift the official balance of power, as \"sanacja\" remained in control. However, it strengthened the Polish peasant movement, and was seen by the peasant activist as a successful demonstration of force. SL activists wanted to organize another strike in 1938, but due to deteriorating international situation, and growing threat of German aggression, it was called off. During World War II, those who took part in the 1937 strike, organized Polish Peasants' Battalions, and after the war, they opposed introduction of the Communist system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23919924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23919924", "title": "AgileNCR", "text": "AgileNCR\n\nAgileNCR, an annual Agile software development conference organized by Xebia and Agile enthusiasts of the NCR region. It takes place every year around April. Anurag Shrivastava started NCR Agile User Group which was later transformed into Agile NCR Conference. The first conference was in 2006, and in 2009 there were 35 organisations participating. Every year there is a new theme to the conference and presentations range from beginner to expert level adopters of Agile.\n\nAgileNCR takes place in the National Capital Region (NCR) of India. The conference is usually hosted in an educational institute or in a conference room at a hotel. As a result, the speaker video and slides are projected on screens.\n\n"}
{"id": "11277165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11277165", "title": "Amina – Chechen Republic Online", "text": "Amina – Chechen Republic Online\n\nAmina – Chechen Republic Online, popularly known as Amina.com, is a social networking website that includes information on the Chechen language and culture and photos of the First and Second Chechen Wars. It was founded on March 13, 1997 by Albert Digaev, a Chechen refugee living in the United States, as a means of communication for the disparate global Chechen diaspora community.\n\nAt its inception, it was the first website about Chechnya on the Internet, and for a while the only one. Taking its name after a well-liked Chechen girl's name, the website initially provided information, links and images about and from Chechnya, its history, people, culture and the conflict. After numerous website layout updates, the site has expanded to include online discussion boards, chatroom, photo gallery, and private email service.\n\nAmina – Chechen Republic Online now ranks in the top 25,000 sites based on web traffic on the Internet according to the website Alexa. The website's popularity grew to such an extent that it was once closely monitored by the pro-Russian Chechen government.\n\nThe site, which allows users to write in Chechen, Russian, and English, is free to users and generates revenue from advertising including banner ads. Features of the website include Chechen Forum, Articles related to Chechnya, Chechen Photo Gallery, Chechen Chat, and Chechen Mail.\n\nAs of May 17, 2007, the Chechen Forum hosted more than 3,500 members and more than 300,000 posts. Although all forum visitors may browse among the various threads, only visitors who have created a free subscription account may be able to make forum posts, receive email notifications of replies to posts, and send and receive private messages. In late April 2007, Albert Digaev added English language registration to the Chechen Forum, to allow English speakers access and an English language thread to allow English speakers to communicate with Chechens.\n\nThe articles section includes various essays on the Chechen conflict, resources on the Chechen language, and appeals to end the war in Chechnya. Some of the articles' authors include famed Russian journalist Andrei Babitsky, Chechen Ambassador to the United States Lyoma Usmanov, and U.S. Under Secretary for Political Affairs R. Nicholas Burns. The list of articles has not been updated since February 2005.\n\nThe Chechen Photo Gallery enables users with a free subscription account to upload photos of themselves and their friends, as well as rate or comment on others' photos. Although individuals are primarily Chechens, Russians and Caucasians are well represented in the gallery as well. Sections of the gallery include Individuals, Girls, Boys, Chechen Television, Our Neighbors, People of the Arts, Children, Historical Photos, My Chechnya, and New Photos.\n\nChechen Chat is a free IRC service powered by the ASP.NET web application framework. Users can private message directly with other Amina.com users. This feature was recently reinstated in 2007 after going offline for several months.\n\nChechen Mail is a Gmail-powered service which enables users to gain access to a private email account with an amina.com domain name. When Google Apps enabled Gmail users to check their email accounts using the BlackBerry wireless handheld device, Chechen Mail users by extension gained access to this new feature. Currently, email signup requires permission from the Amina – Chechen Republic Online domain administrator.\n\n"}
{"id": "387816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=387816", "title": "Armenians", "text": "Armenians\n\nArmenians (, \"hayer\" ) are an ethnic group native to the Armenian Highlands.\n\nArmenians constitute the main population of Armenia and the \"de facto\" independent Artsakh. There is a wide-ranging diaspora of around 5 million people of full or partial Armenian ancestry living outside modern Armenia. The largest Armenian populations today exist in Russia, the United States, France, Georgia, Iran, Germany, Ukraine, Lebanon, Brazil and Syria. With the exceptions of Iran and the former Soviet states, the present-day Armenian diaspora was formed mainly as a result of the Armenian Genocide.\n\nMost Armenians adhere to the Armenian Apostolic Church, a non-Chalcedonian church, which is also the world's oldest national church. Christianity began to spread in Armenia soon after Jesus' death, due to the efforts of two of his apostles, St. Thaddeus and St. Bartholomew. In the early 4th century, the Kingdom of Armenia became the first state to adopt Christianity as a state religion.\n\nArmenian is an Indo-European language. It has two mutually intelligible and written forms: Eastern Armenian, today spoken mainly in Armenia, Artsakh, Iran, and the former Soviet republics; and Western Armenian, used in the historical Western Armenia and, after the Armenian Genocide, primarily in the Armenian diasporan communities. The unique Armenian alphabet was invented in 405 AD by Mesrop Mashtots.\n\nHistorically, the name \"Armenian\" has come to internationally designate this group of people. It was first used by neighbouring countries of ancient Armenia. The earliest attestations of the exonym \"Armenia\" date around the 6th century BC. In his trilingual Behistun Inscription dated to 517 BC, Darius I the Great of Persia refers to \"Urashtu\" (in Babylonian) as \"Armina\" (in Old Persian; \"Armina\" ( ) and \"Harminuya\" (in Elamite).\nIn Greek, \"Armenians\" is attested from about the same time, perhaps the earliest reference being a fragment attributed to Hecataeus of Miletus (476 BC). Xenophon, a Greek general serving in some of the Persian expeditions, describes many aspects of Armenian village life and hospitality in around 401 BC. He relates that the people spoke a language that to his ear sounded like the language of the Persians.\n\nArmenians call themselves \"Hay\" (Հայ, pronounced [ˈhaj]; plural: Հայեր, [haˈjɛɾ]). The name has traditionally been derived from Hayk (), the legendary patriarch of the Armenians and a great-great-grandson of Noah, who, according to Moses of Chorene, defeated the Babylonian king Bel in 2492 BC and established his nation in the Ararat region. It is also further postulated that the name \"Hay\" comes from one of the two confederated, Hittite vassal states—the Ḫayaša-Azzi (1600–1200 BC).\n\nMovses Khorenatsi, the important early medieval Armenian historian, wrote that the word \"Armenian\" originated from the name Armenak or Aram (the descendant of Hayk).\n\nThe Armenian Highland is the area surrounding Mount Ararat, the highest peak of the region.\n\nA controversial hypothesis put forward by some scholars, such as T. Gamkrelidze and V. Ivanov, has proposed that the Indo-European homeland was around the Armenian Highland.\n\nThe modern Armenian language is often grouped with Greek and Ancient Macedonian (\"Helleno-Macedonian\") in the Pontic Indo-European (also called Helleno-Armenian) subgroup of Indo-European languages by Eric P. Hamp in his 2012 Indo-European family tree, groups . There are two possible explanations, not mutually exclusive, for a common origin of the Armenian and Greek languages.\n\nSome genetics studies explain Armenian diversity by several mixtures of Eurasian populations that occurred between ~3,000 and ~2,000 BC. But genetic signals of population mixture cease after ~1,200 BC when Bronze Age civilizations in the Eastern Mediterranean world suddenly and violently collapsed. Armenians have since remained isolated and genetic structure within the population developed ~500 years ago when Armenia was divided between the Ottomans and the Safavid Empire in Iran. \n\nIn the Bronze Age, several states flourished in the area of Greater Armenia, including the Hittite Empire (at the height of its power), Mitanni (South-Western historical Armenia), and Hayasa-Azzi (1600–1200 BC). Soon after Hayasa-Azzi came Arme-Shupria (1300s–1190 BC), the Nairi (1400–1000 BC) and the Kingdom of Urartu (860–590 BC), who successively established their sovereignty over the Armenian Highland. Each of the aforementioned nations and tribes participated in the ethnogenesis of the Armenian people. Under Ashurbanipal (669–627 BC), the Assyrian empire reached the Caucasus Mountains (modern Armenia, Georgia and Azerbaijan).\n\nYerevan, the modern capital of Armenia, was founded in 782 BC by king Argishti I.\n\nThe first geographical entity that was called Armenia by neighboring peoples (such as by Hecataeus of Miletus and on the Achaemenid Behistun Inscription) was established in the late 6th century BC under the Orontid dynasty within the Achaemenid Persian Empire as part of the latters' territories, and which later became a kingdom. At its zenith (95–65 BC), the state extended from the Caucasus all the way to what is now central Turkey, Lebanon, and northern Iran. The imperial reign of Tigranes the Great is thus the span of time during which Armenia itself conquered areas populated by other peoples.\n\nThe Arsacid Kingdom of Armenia, itself a branch of the Arsacid dynasty of Parthia, was the first state to adopt Christianity as its religion (it had formerly been adherent to Armenian paganism, which was influenced by Zoroastrianism, while later on adopting a few elements regarding identification of its pantheon with Greco-Roman deities). in the early years of the 4th century, likely AD 301, partly in defiance of the Sassanids it seems. In the late Parthian period, Armenia was a predominantly Zoroastrian-adhering land, but by the Christianisation, previously predominant Zoroastrianism and paganism in Armenia gradually declined. \nLater on, in order to further strengthen Armenian national identity, Mesrop Mashtots invented the Armenian alphabet, in 405 AD. This event ushered the Golden Age of Armenia, during which many foreign books and manuscripts were translated to Armenian by Mesrop's pupils. Armenia lost its sovereignty again in 428 AD to the rivalling Byzantine and Sassanid Persian empires, until the Muslim conquest of Persia overran also the regions in which Armenians lived.\n\nIn 885 AD the Armenians reestablished themselves as a sovereign kingdom under the leadership of Ashot I of the Bagratid Dynasty. A considerable portion of the Armenian nobility and peasantry fled the Byzantine occupation of Bagratid Armenia in 1045, and the subsequent invasion of the region by Seljuk Turks in 1064. They settled in large numbers in Cilicia, an Anatolian region where Armenians were already established as a minority since Roman times. In 1080, they founded an independent Armenian Principality then Kingdom of Cilicia, which became the focus of Armenian nationalism. The Armenians developed close social, cultural, military, and religious ties with nearby Crusader States, but eventually succumbed to Mamluk invasions. In the next few centuries, Djenghis Khan, Timurids, and the tribal Turkic federations of the Ak Koyunlu and the Kara Koyunlu ruled over the Armenians.\n\nFrom the early 16th century, both Western Armenia and Eastern Armenia fell under Iranian Safavid rule. Owing to the century long Turco-Iranian geo-political rivalry that would last in Western Asia, significant parts of the region were frequently fought over between the two rivalling empires. From the mid 16th century with the Peace of Amasya, and decisively from the first half of the 17th century with the Treaty of Zuhab until the first half of the 19th century, Eastern Armenia was ruled by the successive Iranian Safavid, Afsharid and Qajar empires, while Western Armenia remained under Ottoman rule. In the late 1820s, the parts of historic Armenia under Iranian control centering on Yerevan and Lake Sevan (all of Eastern Armenia) were incorporated into the Russian Empire following Iran's forced ceding of the territories after its loss in the Russo-Persian War (1826-1828) and the outcoming Treaty of Turkmenchay. Western Armenia however, remained in Ottoman hands.\n\nThe ethnic cleansing of Armenians during the final years of the Ottoman Empire is widely considered a genocide, resulting in an estimated 1.5 million victims. The first wave of persecution was in the years 1894 to 1896, the second one culminating in the events of the Armenian Genocide in 1915 and 1916. With World War I in progress, the Ottoman Empire accused the (Christian) Armenians as liable to ally with Imperial Russia, and used it as a pretext to deal with the entire Armenian population as an enemy within their empire.\n\nGovernments of the Republic of Turkey since that time have consistently rejected charges of genocide, typically arguing either that those Armenians who died were simply in the way of a war, or that killings of Armenians were justified by their individual or collective support for the enemies of the Ottoman Empire. Passage of legislation in various foreign countries, condemning the persecution of the Armenians as genocide, has often provoked diplomatic conflict. (See Recognition of the Armenian Genocide)\n\nFollowing the breakup of the Russian Empire in the aftermath of World War I for a brief period, from 1918 to 1920, Armenia was an independent republic. In late 1920, the communists came to power following an invasion of Armenia by the Red Army; in 1922, Armenia became part of the Transcaucasian SFSR of the Soviet Union, later on forming the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic (1936 to 21 September 1991). In 1991, Armenia declared independence from the USSR and established the second Republic of Armenia.\n\nArmenians have had a presence in the Armenian Highland for over 4,000 years, since the time when Hayk, the legendary patriarch and founder of the first Armenian nation, led them to victory over Bel of Babylon. Today, with a population of 3.5 million, they not only constitute an overwhelming majority in Armenia, but also in the disputed region of Artsakh. Armenians in the diaspora informally refer to them as \"Hayastantsi\"s (Հայաստանցի), meaning those that are from Armenia (that is, those born and raised in Armenia). They, as well as the Armenians of Iran and Russia speak the Eastern dialect of the Armenian language. The country itself is secular as a result of Soviet domination, but most of its citizens identify themselves as Apostolic Armenian Christian.\n\nSmall Armenian trading and religious communities have existed outside Armenia for centuries. For example, a community survived for over a millennium in the Holy Land, and one of the four-quarters of the walled Old City of Jerusalem has been called the Armenian Quarter. An Armenian Catholic monastic community of 35 founded in 1717 exists on an island near Venice, Italy. There are also remnants of formerly populous communities in India, Myanmar, Thailand, Belgium, Portugal, Italy, Israel, Poland, Austria, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia, Ethiopia, Sudan and Egypt.\n\nRegardless, most of the modern days diaspora consists of Armenians scattered throughout the world as a direct consequence of the genocide of 1915, constituting the main portion of the Armenian diaspora. However, Armenian communities in the Georgian capital city of Tbilisi, in Syria and in Iran existed since antiquity.\n\nWithin the diasporan Armenian community, there is an unofficial classification of the different \"kinds\" of Armenians. For example, Armenians who originate from Iran are referred to as \"Parskahay\" (Պարսկահայ), while Armenians from Lebanon are usually referred to as \"Lipananahay\" (Լիբանանահայ). Armenians of the Diaspora are the primary speakers of the Western dialect of the Armenian language. This dialect has considerable differences with Eastern Armenian, but speakers of either of the two variations can usually understand each other. Eastern Armenian in the diaspora is primarily spoken in Iran and European countries such as Ukraine, Russia, and Georgia (where they form a majority in the Samtskhe-Javakheti province). In diverse communities (such as in Canada and the U.S.) where many different kinds of Armenians live together, there is a tendency for the different groups to cluster together.\n\nBefore Christianity, Armenians adhered to Armenian paganism: a type of indigenous polytheism that stemmed from the Urartu period but which adopted several Greco-Roman and Iranian religious characteristics.\n\nIn 301 AD, Armenia adopted Christianity as a state religion, becoming the first state to do so. The claim is primarily based on the fifth-century work of Agathangelos titled \"The History of the Armenians.\" Agathangelos witnessed at first hand the baptism of the Armenian King Trdat III (c. 301/314 A.D.) by St. Gregory the Illuminator. Trdat III decreed Christianity was the state religion.\n\nArmenia established a Church that still exists independently of both the Catholic and the Eastern Orthodox churches, having become so in 451 AD as a result of its stance regarding the Council of Chalcedon. Today this church is known as the Armenian Apostolic Church, which is a part of the Oriental Orthodox communion, not to be confused with the Eastern Orthodox communion. During its later political eclipses, Armenia depended on the church to preserve and protect its unique identity. The original location of the Armenian Catholicosate is Echmiadzin. However, the continuous upheavals, which characterized the political scenes of Armenia, made the political power move to safer places. The Church center moved as well to different locations together with the political authority. Therefore, it eventually moved to Cilicia as the Holy See of Cilicia.\n\nThe Armenians collective has, at times, constituted a Christian \"island\" in a mostly Muslim region. There is, however, a minority of ethnic Armenian Muslims, known as Hamshenis but many Armenians view them as a separate race, while the history of the Jews in Armenia dates back 2,000 years. The Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia had close ties to European Crusader States. Later on, the deteriorating situation in the region led the bishops of Armenia to elect a Catholicos in Etchmiadzin, the original seat of the Catholicosate. In 1441, a new Catholicos was elected in Etchmiadzin in the person of Kirakos Virapetsi, while Krikor Moussapegiants preserved his title as Catholicos of Cilicia. Therefore, since 1441, there have been two Catholicosates in the Armenian Church with equal rights and privileges, and with their respective jurisdictions. The primacy of honor of the Catholicosate of Etchmiadzin has always been recognized by the Catholicosate of Cilicia.\n\nWhile the Armenian Apostolic Church remains the most prominent church in the Armenian community throughout the world, Armenians (especially in the diaspora) subscribe to any number of other Christian denominations. These include the Armenian Catholic Church (which follows its own liturgy but recognizes the Roman Catholic Pope), the Armenian Evangelical Church, which started as a reformation in the Mother church but later broke away, and the Armenian Brotherhood Church, which was born in the Armenian Evangelical Church, but later broke apart from it. There are other numerous Armenian churches belonging to Protestant denominations of all kinds.\n\nThrough the ages many Armenians have collectively belonged to other faiths or Christian movements, including the Paulicians which is a form of Gnostic and Manichaean Christianity. Paulicians sought to restore the pure Christianity of Paul and in c.660 founded the first congregation in Kibossa, Armenia.\n\nAnother example is the Tondrakians, who flourished in medieval Armenia between the early 9th century and 11th century. Tondrakians advocated the abolishment of the church, denied the immortality of the soul, did not believe in an afterlife, supported property rights for peasants, and equality between men and women.\n\nThe Orthodox Armenians or the Chalcedonian Armenians in the Byzantine Empire were called Iberians (\"Georgians\") or \"Greeks\". See Gregory Pakourianos – the great Byzantine general. Their descendants are the Hayhurum and Catholic Armenians in Georgia.\n\nArmenian is a sub-branch of the Indo-European family, and with some 8 million speakers one of the smallest surviving branches, comparable to Albanian or the somewhat more widely spoken Greek, with which it may be connected (see Graeco-Armenian). Today, that branch has just one language – Armenian.\n\nFive million Eastern Armenian speakers live in the Caucasus, Russia, and Iran, and approximately two to three million people in the rest of the Armenian diaspora speak Western Armenian. According to US Census figures, there are 300,000 Americans who speak Armenian at home. It is in fact the twentieth most commonly spoken language in the United States, having slightly fewer speakers than Haitian Creole, and slightly more than Navajo.\n\nArmenian literature dates back to 400 AD, when Mesrop Mashtots first invented the Armenian alphabet. This period of time is often viewed as the Golden Age of Armenian literature. Early Armenian literature was written by the \"father of Armenian history\", Moses of Chorene, who authored \"The History of Armenia\". The book covers the time-frame from the formation of the Armenian people to the fifth century AD. The nineteenth century beheld a great literary movement that was to give rise to modern Armenian literature. This period of time, during which Armenian culture flourished, is known as the Revival period (Zartonki sherchan). The Revivalist authors of Constantinople and Tiflis, almost identical to the Romanticists of Europe, were interested in encouraging Armenian nationalism. Most of them adopted the newly created Eastern or Western variants of the Armenian language depending on the targeted audience, and preferred them over classical Armenian (grabar). This period ended after the Hamidian massacres, when Armenians experienced turbulent times. As Armenian history of the 1920s and of the Genocide came to be more openly discussed, writers like Paruyr Sevak, Gevork Emin, Silva Kaputikyan and Hovhannes Shiraz began a new era of literature.\n\nThe first Armenian churches were built on the orders of St. Gregory the Illuminator, and were often built on top of pagan temples, and imitated some aspects of Armenian pre-Christian architecture.\n\nClassical and Medieval Armenian Architecture is divided into four separate periods.\n\nThe first Armenian churches were built between the 4th and 7th century, beginning when Armenia converted to Christianity, and ending with the Arab invasion of Armenia. The early churches were mostly simple basilicas, but some with side apses. By the fifth century the typical cupola cone in the center had become widely used. By the seventh century, centrally planned churches had been built and a more complicated \"niched buttress\" and radiating \"Hrip'simé\" style had formed. By the time of the Arab invasion, most of what we now know as classical Armenian architecture had formed.\n\nFrom the 9th to 11th century, Armenian architecture underwent a revival under the patronage of the Bagratid Dynasty with a great deal of building done in the area of Lake Van, this included both traditional styles and new innovations. Ornately carved Armenian Khachkars were developed during this time. Many new cities and churches were built during this time, including a new capital at Lake Van and a new Cathedral on Akdamar Island to match. The Cathedral of Ani was also completed during this dynasty. It was during this time that the first major monasteries, such as Haghpat and Haritchavank were built. This period was ended by the Seljuk invasion.\n\nMany types of sports are played in Armenia, among the most popular being football, chess, boxing, basketball, hockey, sambo, wrestling, weightlifting and volleyball. Since independence, the Armenian government has been actively rebuilding its sports program in the country.\n\nDuring Soviet rule, Armenian athletes rose to prominence winning plenty of medals and helping the USSR win the medal standings at the Olympics on numerous occasions. The first medal won by an Armenian in modern Olympic history was by Hrant Shahinyan, who won two golds and two silvers in gymnastics at the 1952 Summer Olympics in Helsinki. In football, their most successful team was Yerevan's FC Ararat, which had claimed most of the Soviet championships in the 70s and had also gone to post victories against professional clubs like FC Bayern Munich in the Euro cup.\n\nArmenians have also been successful in chess, which is the most popular mind sport in Armenia. Some of the most prominent chess players in the world are Armenian such as Tigran Petrosian, Levon Aronian and Garry Kasparov. Armenians have also been successful in weightlifting and wrestling (Armen Nazaryan), winning medals in each sport at the Olympics. There are also successful Armenians in football – Henrikh Mkhitaryan, boxing – Arthur Abraham and Vic Darchinyan.\n\nArmenian music is a mix of indigenous folk music, perhaps best-represented by Djivan Gasparyan's well-known duduk music, as well as light pop, and extensive Christian music.\n\nInstruments like the duduk, the dhol, the zurna and the kanun are commonly found in Armenian folk music. Artists such as Sayat Nova are famous due to their influence in the development of Armenian folk music. One of the oldest types of Armenian music is the Armenian chant which is the most common kind of religious music in Armenia. Many of these chants are ancient in origin, extending to pre-Christian times, while others are relatively modern, including several composed by Saint Mesrop Mashtots, the inventor of the Armenian alphabet. Whilst under Soviet rule, Armenian classical music composer Aram Khatchaturian became internationally well known for his music, for various ballets and the Sabre Dance from his composition for the ballet Gayane.\n\nThe Armenian Genocide caused widespread emigration that led to the settlement of Armenians in various countries in the world. Armenians kept to their traditions and certain diasporans rose to fame with their music. In the post-Genocide Armenian community of the United States, the so-called \"kef\" style Armenian dance music, using Armenian and Middle Eastern folk instruments (often electrified/amplified) and some western instruments, was popular. This style preserved the folk songs and dances of Western Armenia, and many artists also played the contemporary popular songs of Turkey and other Middle Eastern countries from which the Armenians emigrated. Richard Hagopian is perhaps the most famous artist of the traditional \"kef\" style and the Vosbikian Band was notable in the 40s and 50s for developing their own style of \"kef music\" heavily influenced by the popular American Big Band Jazz of the time. Later, stemming from the Middle Eastern Armenian diaspora and influenced by Continental European (especially French) pop music, the Armenian pop music genre grew to fame in the 60s and 70s with artists such as Adiss Harmandian and Harout Pamboukjian performing to the Armenian diaspora and Armenia. Also with artists such as Sirusho, performing pop music combined with Armenian folk music in today's entertainment industry. Other Armenian diasporans that rose to fame in classical or international music circles are world-renowned French-Armenian singer and composer Charles Aznavour, pianist Sahan Arzruni, prominent opera sopranos such as Hasmik Papian and more recently Isabel Bayrakdarian and Anna Kasyan. Certain Armenians settled to sing non-Armenian tunes such as the heavy metal band System of a Down (which nonetheless often incorporates traditional Armenian instrumentals and styling into their songs) or pop star Cher. Ruben Hakobyan (Ruben Sasuntsi) is a well recognized Armenian ethnographic and patriotic folk singer who has achieved widespread national recognition due to his devotion to Armenian folk music and exceptional talent. In the Armenian diaspora, Armenian Revolutionary Songs are popular with the youth. These songs encourage Armenian patriotism and are generally about Armenian history and national heroes.\n\nCarpet-weaving is historically a major traditional profession for the majority of Armenian women, including many Armenian families. Prominent Karabakh carpet weavers there were men too. The oldest extant Armenian carpet from the region, referred to as Artsakh (see also Karabakh carpet) during the medieval era, is from the village of Banants (near Gandzak) and dates to the early 13th century. The first time that the Armenian word for carpet, \"gorg\", was used in historical sources was in a 1242–1243 Armenian inscription on the wall of the Kaptavan Church in Artsakh.\n\nCommon themes and patterns found on Armenian carpets were the depiction of dragons and eagles. They were diverse in style, rich in color and ornamental motifs, and were even separated in categories depending on what sort of animals were depicted on them, such as \"artsvagorgs\" (eagle-carpets), \"vishapagorgs\" (dragon-carpets) and \"otsagorgs\" (serpent-carpets). The rug mentioned in the Kaptavan inscriptions is composed of three arches, \"covered with vegatative ornaments\", and bears an artistic resemblance to the illuminated manuscripts produced in Artsakh.\n\nThe art of carpet weaving was in addition intimately connected to the making of curtains as evidenced in a passage by Kirakos Gandzaketsi, a 13th-century Armenian historian from Artsakh, who praised Arzu-Khatun, the wife of regional prince Vakhtang Khachenatsi, and her daughters for their expertise and skill in weaving.\n\nArmenian carpets were also renowned by foreigners who traveled to Artsakh; the Arab geographer and historian Al-Masudi noted that, among other works of art, he had never seen such carpets elsewhere in his life.\n\nKhorovats, an Armenian-styled barbecue, is arguably the favorite Armenian dish. Lavash is a very popular Armenian flat bread, and Armenian paklava is a popular dessert made from filo dough. Other famous Armenian foods include the kabob (a skewer of marinated roasted meat and vegetables), various dolmas (minced lamb, or beef meat and rice wrapped in grape leaves, cabbage leaves, or stuffed into hollowed vegetables), and pilaf, a rice dish. Also, ghapama, a rice-stuffed pumpkin dish, and many different salads are popular in Armenian culture. Fruits play a large part in the Armenian diet. Apricots (\"Prunus armeniaca\", also known as Armenian Plum) have been grown in Armenia for centuries and have a reputation for having an especially good flavor. Peaches are popular as well, as are grapes, figs, pomegranates, and melons. Preserves are made from many fruits, including cornelian cherries, young walnuts, sea buckthorn, mulberries, sour cherries, and many others.\n\n\n\nNotes\n\nInline\n\nGeneral\n\n\nThe UCLA conference series titled \"Historic Armenian Cities and Provinces\" is organized by the Holder of the Armenian Educational Foundation Chair in Modern Armenian History. The conference proceedings are edited by Richard G. Hovannisian. Published in Costa Mesa, CA, by Mazda Publishers, they are:\n"}
{"id": "34270216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34270216", "title": "Armenians in the Baltic states", "text": "Armenians in the Baltic states\n\nArmenians in the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania settled there mostly during the Soviet occupation of the Baltic States.\n\nAccording to the year 2000 census, there were 1,444 Armenians living in Estonia. According to the 2011 census, the number of Armenians had decreased slightly to 1,042. In 1989 (according to Soviet 1989 census) the number was 1,669. The majority of Armenians live in Tallinn: 58% in the year 2000.\n\nWith the affirmation of Estonia's independence from the Soviet Union in 1991, Soviet-era immigrants and their Estonian-born children were not granted citizenship automatically.\n\nA football club based in Tallinn, FC Ararat Tallinn, is named after the mountain Ararat and has a partnership with the Armenian club FC Ararat Yerevan.\n\nArmenians in Latvia number around 5,000 according to armeniandiaspora.com and 2,742 according to Latvian yearly statistics of 2008.\nThe Armenians live mainly in Riga.\n\nIn 1887 had established Latvian Armenian Society. One Armenian was reported in the Jäger Report as murdered by Einsatzgruppe A in Daugavpils in 1941. In 1990, in the center of Riga had been set a khachkar. In 1991, the first issue of the newspaper \"Ararat\". In 2001, Armenian community of Riga had established. In 2002, the publishing of the newspaper “Ararat” had resumed.\n\nAccording to the last Lithuanian census of 2011 there were 1,233 Armenians in Lithuania. Armenian organizations put the number around 2,500. According to Soviet 1989 census there are 1,655 Armenians in Lithuania. The Armenians live mainly in Vilnius. The settlement of Armenians in Lithuania, in the distant past of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth was of an episodic nature and was due mainly to the needs of trade, although from the historical sources it is known, that Armenian school was established in 16th century Vilnius, Armenian guild in the 16th to 18th centuries Vilnius. One of the most prominent painter of the 19th century in Lithuania was Jan Rustem (Armenian: Յան Ռուստամ). The history of most of the Armenian community now living in Lithuania mainly occurs in the 20th century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1411670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1411670", "title": "Arte Povera", "text": "Arte Povera\n\nArte Povera (; literally \"poor art\") is a contemporary art movement. The Arte Povera movement took place between the end of the 1960s and the beginning of the 1970s in major cities throughout Italy and above all in Turin. Other cities where the movement was also important are Milan, Rome, Genoa, Venice, Naples and Bologna. The term was coined by Italian art critic Germano Celant in 1967 and introduced in Italy during the period of upheaval at the end of the 1960s, when artists were taking a radical stance. Artists began attacking the values of established institutions of government, industry, and culture.\n\nThe exhibition \"Im Spazio\" (The Space of Thoughts), curated by Celant and held at the Galleria La Bertesca in Genoa, Italy, from September through October 1967, is often considered to be the official starting point of Arte Povera. Celant, who became one of Arte Povera's major proponents, organized two exhibitions in 1967 and 1968, followed by an influential book published by Electa in 1985 called \"Arte Povera Storie e protagonisti/Arte Povera. Histories and Protagonists\", promoting the notion of a revolutionary art, free of convention, the power of structure, and the market place.\n\nAlthough Celant attempted to encompass the radical elements of the entire international scene, the term properly centered on a group of Italian artists who attacked the corporate mentality with an art of unconventional materials and style. Key figures closely associated with the movement are Giovanni Anselmo, Alighiero Boetti, Enrico Castellani, Pier Paolo Calzolari, Luciano Fabro, Jannis Kounellis, Mario Merz, Marisa Merz, Giulio Paolini, Pino Pascali, Giuseppe Penone, Michelangelo Pistoletto, Emilio Prini, and Gilberto Zorio. They often used found objects in their works. Other early exponents of radical change in the visual arts include proto Arte Povera artists: Antoni Tàpies and the Dau al Set movement, Alberto Burri, Piero Manzoni, and Lucio Fontana and Spatialism. Art dealer Ileana Sonnabend was a champion of the movement.\n\n\nMichelangelo Pistoletto began painting on mirrors in 1962, connecting painting with the constantly changing realities in which the work finds itself. In the later 1960s he began bringing together rags with casts of omnipresent classical statuary of Italy to break down the hierarchies of \"art\" and common things. An art of impoverished materials is certainly one aspect of the definition of \"Arte Povera\". In his 1967 \"Muretto di straci\" (\"Rag Wall\") Pistoletto makes an exotic and opulent tapestry wrapping common bricks in discarded scraps of fabric.\n\nJannis Kounellis and Mario Merz attempted to make the experience of art more immediately real while also more closely connecting the individual to nature. In his \"(Untitled /Twelve Horses)\", Kounellis brings the real, natural life into the gallery setting, by showing twelve horses racked-up on the gallery walls. Recalling the Dada movement and Marcel Duchamp, his aim was to challenge what could be defined as art, but unlike Duchamp, maintains the objects real and alive, redefining the notion of life and art, while keeping both entities independent. Piero Gilardi, much like the aim of Arte Povera itself, was concerned with bridging the natural and the artificial. In his \"(Nature Carpets)\", 1965, which gained him recognition and assimilation into the Arte Povera movement, Gilardi built three-dimensional carpets out of polyurethane which used \"natural\" leaves, rocks, and soil as decoration, design and art meshed together to question societal sensibilities towards what is real and natural and how artificiality was being engrained into the contemporary commercialized world.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20481920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20481920", "title": "Cannabis strains", "text": "Cannabis strains\n\n\"Cannabis\" strains are either pure or hybrid varieties of the plant genus \"Cannabis\", which encompasses the species \"C. sativa\", \"C. indica\" and \"C. ruderalis\".\n\nVarieties are developed to intensify specific characteristics of the plant, or to differentiate the strain for the purposes of marketing or to make it more effective as a drug. Variety names are typically chosen by their growers, and often reflect properties of the plant such as taste, color, smell, or the origin of the variety. Cannabis strains commonly refer to those varieties with recreational and medicinal use. These varieties have been cultivated to contain a high percentage of cannabinoids. Several varieties of \"Cannabis\", known as hemp, have a very low cannabinoid content, and are instead grown for their fiber and seed.\nThe two species of the Cannabis genus that are most commonly grown are \"Cannabis indica\" and \"Cannabis sativa\". A third species, \"Cannabis ruderalis\", is very short and produces only trace amounts of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), and thus is not commonly grown for industrial, recreational or medicinal use. However, because \"Cannabis ruderalis\" flowers independently of the photoperiod and according to age, it has been used to breed autoflowering strains.\n\nPure \"sativas\" are relatively tall (reaching as high as 4.5 meters), with long internodes and branches, and large, narrow-bladed leaves. Pure \"indica\" varieties are shorter and bushier, have wider leaflets. They are often favored by indoor growers for their size. \"Sativas\" bloom later than \"indicas\", often taking a month or two longer to mature. The subjective effects of \"sativas\" and \"indicas\" are said to differ, but the ratio of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) to cannabidiol (CBD) in most named drug varieties of both types is similar (averaging about 200:1). Unlike most commercially developed strains, \"indica\" landraces exhibit plants with varying THC/CBD ratios. Avidekel, a medical marijuana strain developed in Israel, has a very low content of THC but a high content of CBD, limiting its recreational value but maximizing medical effect.\n\nThere is an increasing discussion whether the existing paradigm of the difference between species adequately represents the variability found within the genus \"Cannabis\".\nThere are five chemotaxonomic types of \"Cannabis\": one with high levels of THC, one which is more fibrous and has higher levels of CBD, one that is an intermediate between the two, another one with high levels of cannabigerol (CBG), and the last one almost without cannabinoids.\n\nThere has also been a recent movement to characterize strains based on their reported subjective effects. For example, WoahStork has used machine learning algorithms to classify strains into six Distinct Activity groups.\n\nIn addition to pure \"indica\", \"sativa\", and \"ruderalis\" varieties, hybrid varieties with varying ratios of these three types are common. For example, the White Widow hybrid containing about 60% \"indica\" and 40% \"sativa\" ancestry. These hybrid varieties exhibit traits from both parental types. There are also commercial crossbred hybrids which contain a mix of both ruderalis, indica or sativa genes, and are usually autoflowering varieties. These varieties are bred mostly for the medicinal cannabis market, since they are not very appreciated by recreational cannabis users because \"ruderalis\" varieties are lower in THC and impart a slightly unpleasant taste. \"\"L\"owryder\" was an early auto-flowering hybrid that retained the flowering behavior of \"ruderalis\" plants, while also producing appreciable amounts of THC and CBD. Autoflowering cannabis varieties have the advantage of being discreet due to their small stature. They also require shorter growing periods, as well as having the additional advantage that they do not rely on a change in the photoperiod to determine when to flower.\n\nBreeding requires pollinating a female cannabis plant with male pollen. Although this occurs spontaneously and ubiquitously in nature, the intentional creation of new varieties typically involves selective breeding in a controlled environment.\n\nWhen cannabis is cultivated for its psychoactive or medicinal properties, male plants will often be separated from females. This prevents the fertilization of the female plants, either to facilitate sinsemilla flowering or to provide more control over which male is chosen. Pollen produced by the male is caught and stored until it is needed.\n\nWhen a male plant of one strain pollinates a female of another strain, the seeds will be F1 hybrids of the male and female. These offspring will not be identical to their parents. Instead, they will have characteristics of both parents. Repeated breeding results in certain characteristics appearing with greater regularity.\n\nIt is impossible for a hermaphrodite to create any male only plants. A hermaphrodite may create female only seeds and hermaphrodite seeds. Also the female only seeds may carry the hermaphrodite trait.\n\nA common technique to stabilize a cannabis variety is called \"cubing\". A breeder seeking specific traits in the hybrid offspring (for example, greater resin production or tighter node spacing) will breed hybrid plants most exemplifying these characteristics with a parent plant. The same traits are sought in the new inbred offspring, which are then again bred with the original parent plant. This process is called cubing because it usually repeated across three, or possibly more generations before the variety's genetics are acceptably stable.\n\nIn a retail market that is decriminalised such as in The Netherlands, where wholesale production is illegal but prosecutions are not always enforced because of the contradiction of the law that is recognised by the courts, competition puts pressure on breeders to create increasingly attractive varieties to maintain market share. Breeders give their strains distinct and memorable names in order to help differentiate them from their competitors' strains, although they may in fact be very similar.\n\nPopular strains are incorporated into new hybrids, which often bear a similar name to their parent. This phenomenon has occurred with Haze and Sour varieties, amongst others.\n\nAcapulco Gold is a golden-leafed \"Cannabis sativa\" strain originally from the Acapulco area of southwest Mexico.\n\nBedrocan is a medicinal cannabis variety cultivated from a Dutch medical marijuana \"Cannabis sativa\" L. strain, having a standardized content of THC (22%) and CBD (1%). It is currently cultivated by Bedrocan Nederland, Bedrocan Canada and Bedrocan Česká Republika. It was first introduced in 2003 and is dispensed through pharmacies after prescription from a physician.\n\nBlue Dream is a hybrid cannabis strain widely used for both medical and recreational purposes first developed in 2003.\n\nCharlotte's Web is a high-cannabidiol (CBD), low-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) \"Cannabis\" extract marketed as a dietary supplement under federal law of the United States. It is produced by the Stanley brothers in Colorado. It does not induce the psychoactive \"high\" typically associated with recreational marijuana strains that are high in THC. In September 2014, the Stanleys announced that they would ensure that the product consistently contained less than 0.3% THC. Charlotte's Web gained national attention when it was used to treat Charlotte Figi's epileptic seizures. Her story has led to her being described as \"the girl who is changing medical marijuana laws across America,\" as well as the \"most famous example of medicinal hemp use\". There is little evidence about the safety or efficacy of cannabinoids in the treatment of epilepsy.\n\nPurple Kush is a 100% Indica strain of \"Cannabis\". This plant \"forms a short squat bush with very dense internodes and large fan leaves, staying in the height range while grown indoors. Purple Kush's foliage exhibits a classic indica growth pattern: a sturdy bush with dark green hues and sometimes hints of purple toward ripeness.\"\n\nTom Cruise Purple is a strain of cannabis sold in California by select licensed cannabis clubs. The strain is potent, and is packaged with a picture of the actor Tom Cruise laughing. Tom Cruise Purple is sold by cannabis purveyors in Northern California. Cruise sought out legal advice regarding the product, and considered a lawsuit against its manufacturers.\n\nSkunk refers to \"cannabis\" strains that are strong-smelling and have been likened to the smell of the spray from a skunk. These strains of cannabis are believed to have originated in the United States prior to development by Dutch growers. Just as with other strains of cannabis, skunk is commonly grown in controlled indoor environments under specialized grow lights, or in a greenhouse when full outdoor conditions are not suitable; skunk strains are hybrids of \"Cannabis sativa\" and \"Cannabis indica\".\n\nSour Diesel is a cannabis sativa dominant hybrid strain.\n\n"}
{"id": "227168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227168", "title": "Charles Eliot Norton", "text": "Charles Eliot Norton\n\nCharles Eliot Norton (November 16, 1827 – October 21, 1908) was an American author, social critic, and professor of art. He was a progressive social reformer and a liberal activist whom many of his contemporaries considered the most cultivated man in the United States.\n\nNorton was born at Cambridge, Massachusetts. His father, Andrews Norton (1786–1853), was a Unitarian theologian, and Dexter professor of sacred literature at Harvard; his mother was Catherine Eliot, a daughter of the merchant Samuel Eliot. Charles William Eliot, president of Harvard, was his cousin. Norton graduated from Harvard in 1846, where he was a member of the Hasty Pudding, and started in business with an East Indian trading firm in Boston, travelling to India in 1849. After a tour in Europe, where he was influenced by John Ruskin and pre-Raphaelite painters, he returned to Boston in 1851, and devoted himself to literature and art. He translated Dante's \"Vita Nuova\" (1860 and 1867) and the \"Divina Commedia\" (1891-91-92, 3 vols, 1902 being the publication year of Norton's thorough final edit). He worked tirelessly as secretary to the Loyal Publication Society during the Civil War, communicating with newspaper editors across the country, including the journalist Jonathan Baxter Harrison who became a lifelong friend. From 1864 to 1868, he edited the highly influential magazine \"North American Review\", in association with James Russell Lowell. In 1861 he and Lowell helped Henry Wadsworth Longfellow in his translation of Dante and in the starting of the informal Dante Club.\n\nIn 1862 Norton married Susan Ridley Sedgwick (21 February 1838 – 17 February 1872), daughter of Theodore Sedgwick III and Sara Morgan Ashburner. They were the parents of six children: Eliot (1863), Sarah (1864), Elizabeth (1866), Rupert (1867), Margaret (1870) and Richard (1872). Susan died at age thirty-three in Dresden, Germany, following the birth of their sixth child.\n\n\"Probably only someone with Norton’s experiences and scholarly range – who had written about the Mound Builders, roamed India, organized classical archaeology, scoured medieval archives, published nineteenth-century painting – could have concocted Western Civilization. And only then if he had filtered these materials through the sieve of college teaching during years of curricular anarchy. For Western civilization had a scholarly and pedagogical specificity about it.\" \n\nFrom 1855 to 1874 Norton spent much time in travel and residence on the continent of Europe and in England, and it was during this period that his friendships began with Thomas Carlyle, John Ruskin, Edward FitzGerald and Leslie Stephen, an intimacy which did much to bring American and English men of letters into close personal relation. Another friend was John Lockwood Kipling, father of Rudyard Kipling. Father and son visited Norton in Boston and the younger Kipling recalled the visit years later in his autobiography:\nNorton was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1860. He began teaching at Harvard in 1874. In 1875, he was appointed professor of the history of art at Harvard, a chair which was created for him and which he held until retirement in 1898. He \"centered his teaching upon the golden ages of art history -- classical Athens, the Italian Gothic style of Venetian architecture, and the Florence of the early Renaissance.\"\n\nThe Archaeological Institute of America chose him as its first president (1879–1890).\n\nNorton had a peculiar genius for friendship, and it is on his personal influence rather than on his literary productions that his claim to fame rests. In 1881 he inaugurated the Dante Society, whose first presidents were Longfellow, Lowell and Norton himself. From 1882 onward he confined himself to the study of Dante, his professorial duties, and the editing and publication of the literary memorials of many of his friends.\n\nIn 1883 came the \"Letters of Carlyle and Emerson\"; in 1886, 1887 and 1888, \"Carlyle's Letters and Reminiscences\"; in 1894, the \"Orations and Addresses of George William Curtis\" and the \"Letters of Lowell\". Norton was also made Ruskin's literary executor, and he wrote various introductions for the American \"Brantwood\" edition of Ruskin's works. His other publications include \"Notes of Travel and Study in Italy\" (1859), and an \"Historical Study of Church-building in the Middle Ages: Venice, Siena, Florence\" (1880). He organized exhibitions of the drawings of Turner (1874) and of Ruskin (1879), for which he compiled the catalogues. In 1886, he opposed the opening of a 'drinking saloon' on the main street near his home, in a letter which reveals little empathy for, or understanding of the significance of, Irish immigration to Cambridge in that era. Like his friend Ruskin, Norton believed one of the best things one could do for working-class people was to give them opportunities to gain satisfaction by engaging in workmanship, as opposed to monotonous routine labor where they have to work like machines. T. J. Jackson Lears has described Norton as the foremost American proponent of the Arts and Crafts movement. Norton was a founding member of The Society of Arts and Crafts of Boston.\n\nDuring the first years of the twentieth century, Norton spoke out in favor of legalized euthanasia. He lent his name to a movement led by Ohio socialite Anna S. Hall to pass physician-assisted suicide legislation in Ohio and Iowa.\nNorton died at \"Shady Hill,\" the house where he had been born, on October 21, 1908, and was buried at Mount Auburn Cemetery.\nNorton was widely admired for the breadth of his intellectual interests, remarkable scholarship and interest in the common good. He was awarded the honorary degrees of Litt.D. (Cambridge) and D.C.L. (Oxford), as well as the L.H.D. from Columbia and the LL.D. from both Harvard and Yale. One of his many students at Harvard was James Loeb, who in 1907 created the \"Charles Eliot Norton Memorial Lectureship\" in archaeology. The Charles Eliot Norton Lectures are given annually by distinguished professors at Harvard. Norton bequeathed the more valuable portion of his library to Harvard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1967518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1967518", "title": "Chenouas", "text": "Chenouas\n\nThe Chenouis (in Berber: Icenwiyen) are a Berber-speaking population native to Algeria. They are concentrated in the west-central mountains, and number over 750,000 people.\n\nThe traditional area from Fouka (Tipaza province) until Ténès (Chlef province).\n\nThe Chenoui speaking population is traditionally composed of several tribes: Cenwa (Tipaza), Guraya (Tipaza), Ayt Mnaser (Beni Menacer) (Cherchell), Ayt Farah, Arib, Zuzug (Ain Defla), Ayt Hawa (Ténès) and the Bissa mounts (Chlef).\n\nThe Chenoui language which is a Northern Berber language is closely related to the Shawiya language and Zenata varieties spoken by Berbers of the Aures mountains in Eastern Algeria and the Rif region.\n\nThe Chenoui traditional territory includes the province of Tipaza, parts of the Chlef province and the north of the province of Ain Defla, and thus are called in reference to the Mount Chenoua which dominates the city of Tipaza, 70 km west of Algiers.\n\nThe region is part of the greater Dahra region, a long mountainous region along the Meditternean coasts, separated from the Ouarsenis range by the Chelif river and its valley. It expands from 8 km north of Mostaganem until the Algiers Sahel with its highest point being Mount Zaccar (Miliana).\n\nThe Chenoua Mount region, highest point of the Algiers Sahel, is the most eastern part of the Chenoui speaking region going from Fouka (42 km west of Algiers) until Tenès (200 km west of Algiers) or even heading further west till ouled Boughalem in the past. Some people call them the Chelhas of the Tell or even Kabyles of the west.\n"}
{"id": "15361156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15361156", "title": "Crime in Afghanistan", "text": "Crime in Afghanistan\n\nCrime in Afghanistan is present in various forms, and includes the following: corruption, contract killings or assassinations, kidnapping, drug trafficking, money laundering, black marketeering, and other ordinary crimes.\n\nOpium poppy cultivation and drug trafficking have important role in the political and economic situation of Afghanistan for last twenty-five years. In the aftermath of the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, opium poppy cultivation increased in the nation. Many mujahideen commanders taxed opium poppy cultivation, even directly participated in illicit drug trade for military financing. Although the Taliban condemned cultivation of narcotic substances, requirements of money encouraged toleration and taxation of drug cultivation. In 1999, Afghanistan produced a peak of over 4,581 metric tons of raw and refined opium. This led to increasing international pressure from states having consumer population of Afghan drugs. In response, the Taliban banned opium poppy cultivation in late 2000, but allowed the opium trade to continue. Under the ban, opium poppy cultivation was reduced to 185 metric tons. This little production of opium continued in areas under the control of the United Islamic Front for the Salvation of Afghanistan.\n\nSince the downfall of the Taliban in 2001, cultivation and trafficking of opium has increased significantly. Throughout the country regional militia commanders, criminal organizations and corrupt government officials have engaged in drug trafficking as a source of revenue. Some anti-government groups make profit from the drug trafficking. Due to these factors, drug trafficking increases political instability in the nation, and is a threat to the country's weak internal security and embryonic democratic government.\n\nAfghanistan is the world's largest producer of opium and in 2001, Afghanistan was the source of 87% of the world's illicit opium. 80-90% of the heroin consumed in Europe comes from opium produced in Afghanistan. According to Antonio Maria Costa \"drugs are now a clear and present danger\" in Afghanistan. According to a survey in 2007 by United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, 93% of the opiates on the world market originated in Afghanistan.\n\nUnemployment among a large portion of the population and rudimentary basic services are major factors behind crime. Other forms of crime include robbery as well as kidnappings and assault. Many riots have occurred in the country in response to various political and other issues.\n\nSince the downfall of the Taliban, crime rate has significantly increased in the capital city Kabul. Armed robberies are regularly reported in the western districts of Kabul. Between March 2002 and January 2003, 48 cases of homicide, 80 cases of theft and 12 cases of kidnappings were reported within Kabul municipal boundaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "15021761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15021761", "title": "Crime in Portugal", "text": "Crime in Portugal\n\nCrime in Portugal is combated by the Portuguese police and other agencies.\n\nIn 2012, Portugal had a murder rate of 1.2 per 100,000 population. There were a total of 122 murders in Portugal in 2012.\n\nTransparency International’s Global Corruption Barometer 2013 reveals that political parties, Parliament, the judiciary and the military are the most corrupt institutions in Portugal.\n\nAfter 1990 crime was a major source of discontent, with a sentiment that Portugal was becoming increasingly unsafe since Portugal became a destination for several thousand emigrants from diverse locations around the globe (in particular from Ukraine, Moldova, Romania, Brazil and the former Portuguese territories in Africa - the PALOP countries). This led to the dismissal of Internal Administration Minister Fernando Gomes (a former mayor of the city of Porto) in the early 2000s on the heels of gang violence that made headlines.\n\nAlong with the gang crime wave, which involved large groups of youths wreaking havoc on commuter train lines and robbing gasoline (petrol) stations, Portugal was also shocked by attacks on nightclubs and a rise of violent crime related with local and international organized crime which includes a number of gangs particularly active in Greater Lisbon and Greater Porto areas. In addition, with the development and modernization of the economy within the globalization process, corporate crime, financial crime, and corruption are heavily punished and increasingly important issues.\n\nPickpockets and purse snatchers are present in crowded popular tourist sites, restaurants, or on public transportation in the largest cities, in particular within Lisbon and Porto metropolitan areas. While thieves may operate anywhere, the largest number of reports of theft received by the authorities usually are from the heavily populated areas and major tourist destinations.\n\nPortugal's largest metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto are the main sources of both petty crime and violent crime.\n\n\nThe crime rate rose in the 1990s, bringing it to an all-time high during much of this period. It still is low compared to other developed countries and has decreased in the 2000s. Violent crime rose during the same period and reached record highs. Portugal's security and peace indicators compare very favourably to other countries. According to the 2017 Global Peace Index rankings, Portugal is the 3rd most peaceful country in the world.\n\nVictims of a crime must report to the nearest police department. The national telephone emergency number is 112, which is used in the entire European Union. The law enforcement system assists the victim to find appropriate medical care, contact family members or friends and explain how further legal procedures could be used.\n\nAlthough the investigation and prosecution of the crime is the responsibility of local authorities which include main police forces such as the Polícia Judiciária (criminal investigation police), the Polícia de Segurança Pública (regular urban police), and the Guarda Nacional Republicana (gendarmerie), officers can help the victim to understand the criminal justice process and to find an attorney if needed. Portugal has a crime victim's assistance program, administered through an organization known by its acronym, \"APAV\" (Associação Portuguesa de Apoio à Vítima).\n\nPortugal has arguably the most liberal laws concerning possession of illicit drugs in the Western world. In 2001 Portugal decriminalized possession of effectively all drugs that are still illegal in other developed nations including, but not limited to, marijuana, cocaine, heroin, and LSD. While possession is not a crime, trafficking and possession of more than \"10 days worth of personal use\" are still punishable by jail time and fines.\n"}
{"id": "176611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=176611", "title": "Demographic crisis of Russia", "text": "Demographic crisis of Russia\n\nDemographic crisis of Russia relates to possible demographic problems of the Russian Federation. The crisis began to unfold in the beginning of the 1990s.\n\nThe demographic crisis has a positive economic effect on the second stage of the changing age structure of the population (the fraction of the average working-age generation is maximal at a relatively small proportion of younger and older) and a negative economic effect on the third stage of the changing age structure of the population (when the proportion of the older generation is maximal at a relatively small share younger and middle generation). By 2025, Russia will have labor shortages. \nWith a reduced fertility rate, the load on the working population increases because each worker has to support more retirees.\nThe rapid rise in the birth rate in a short period of time is difficult to implement due to economic reasons; sharply increased social spending on the old generation, which in the future will only bring troubles.\n\nThe number of high school graduates in Russia has steadily decreased, so universities have to compete for each applicant. Due to the demographic crisis, there is potential for a reduction in the number of universities in the country.\n\nIn the coming years, there are plans to lay off 100,000 teachers (one in four) as the number of students decreases by one million each year. By 2015, the reduction of the teaching staff will be 20-50%.\nThe number of university students in 2013 will amount to 4.2 million, a decrease of more than 40% in relation to the number of students in 2009 (7.4 million).\nAccording to the Education Minister Andrei Fursenko, the demographic crisis will help get rid of the high schools that provide poor quality education.\nOne of the consequences of the demographic crisis is a reduced mobilization potential for the country's armed forces. The demographic crisis affects the nature of the military reform, forcing the military to reduce their numbers, cancel deferments from military service, and eventually move towards hired contractors. As of 2009, the potential mobilization reserve of Russia was 31 million (for comparison, in the United States - 56 million, China - 208 million). In 2010, the organized mobilization reserve was 20 million people. In one possible scenario, the number of 18 year-olds (current mobilization reserve) in 2050 may be reduced by 4 times and could be 328 thousand people.\n\nTf. Mr. Professor Antonov AI notes, that the world has tended to strengthen the organization of life without family, to a convenient and unobtrusive solitary bachelor existence, the Stockholm model. And, as a consequence, the number of children in families, which, in turn, leads to a sharp change in the whole system of life, value systems, the weakening of fatherhood and motherhood, unity of parents and children, the disappearance of the roles of brother and sister, disrupt kinship systems.\nRussia at the end of the 19th century was a country with a young population: the number of children significantly exceeded the number of the elderly. Up to 1938, the population of the Soviet Union remained \"demographically young\", but later, since 1959, began its demographic aging: the proportion of young age began to decline, and the elderly - to increase, which was the result of lower fertility. This was not unique to Russia, and such issues have been felt in many developed countries. In 1990, Russia ranked 25th in the list of countries with high rates of population aging. Currently, the share of people aged 65 and older in the population of Russia is 13%. According to forecasts of the Russian Academy of Sciences from the early 2000's, in 2016 elderly people aged over 60 would have accounted for 20% of Russians, and children up to 15 years would only have made up 17%. However in Russia, in contrast to other countries, aging is being limited by high mortality among older people.\n\nA number of researchers believe that the depopulation affected the Russian people to a greater extent than other peoples living in Russia. According to Rybakovskii, the real (and not the census) number of Russians for the period from 1989 to 2002 decreased by 7%, while the overall country population - only by 1.3%. According to Beloborodov, by the year 2025 85-90% of the population decline in Russia will be due to Russians and in the course of the next 20 years the percentage of Russians as a rough estimate will drop to about 60 to 70%. He predicts also that in 2050, the proportion of Russians in Russia will amount to 46.5%. Some researchers, considering the reduction of the indigenous population as a result of the demographic crisis, given accompanying high immigration (in the case of lack of assimilation of migrants), have made very alarming forecasts. As one of the likely consequences of the demographic crisis some researchers point to a deep change in the future ethno-religious composition of the population (with a share of more than 20% of migrants appear closed ethnic groups, assimilation difficult and exacerbated ethnic conflicts). By 2030, one in five people of Russia will practice Islam. A graphic example of ethnic aspect of the demographic crisis: now a third of all the births in Moscow accounts for migrants, which would change the ethnic and religious composition of the population of Moscow in the nearest future. Reduction of the indigenous population by increasing the share of migrants in the opinion of some researchers may lead to future loss of the territorial integrity of Russia. Chances are that the first territorial losses will be in Siberia and Russian Far East. This is due both to the depopulation of these lands because of low birth rates and internal migration to the European part of Russia, and to the demographic pressure from Asian countries (especially China). For the first time in the history of Russian Siberia, its population is steadily declining.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12438772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12438772", "title": "Demographic history of modern Greece", "text": "Demographic history of modern Greece\n\nPopulation censuses in Greece take place the first year of every decade. There have been 28 censuses in the history of modern Greece, conducted in various times, starting from 1828 at the end of the Greek War of Independence.\n\n"}
{"id": "19120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19120", "title": "Demographics of the Maldives", "text": "Demographics of the Maldives\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of the Maldives, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nThe Maldives had one of the highest birth rates in the world. The result is that many islands have become overpopulated and are completely covered by homesteads.\n\nStructure of the population (21.03.2006) (Census) :\n\nStructure of the population (01.07.2013) (Estimates) :\n\nFertility Rate (TFR) (Wanted Fertility Rate) and CBR (Crude Birth Rate):\n\nThe total fertility rate differs greatly from as low as 2.05 children per woman in Malé to a maximum of 3.88 children in Faafu. \n\nSource: \"UN World Population Prospects\"\n\nThe largest ethnic group are Dhivehis, native to the historic region of the Maldive Islands comprising today's Republic of Maldives and the island of Minicoy in Union territory of Lakshadweep, India. They share the same culture and speak the Dhivehi language. They are principally an Indo-Aryan people, closely related to the Sinhalese and having traces of Middle Eastern, South Asian, Austronesian and African genes in the population.\n\nIn the past there was also a small Tamil population known as the Giraavaru people. This group have now been almost completely absorbed into the larger Maldivian society but were once native to the island of Giraavaru (Kaafu Atoll). This island was evacuated in 1968 due to heavy erosion of the island.\n\nDhivehi, an Indo-Aryan language having some similarities with Elu, the ancient Sinhalese language and written in a specialized Arabic script (Tāna), is the official language and is spoken by virtually the whole population. English is also spoken as a second language by many.\n\nSunni Islam is the state religion. Historically, the Maldives were converted to Islam from Buddhism in the 12th century. \nUnder the 1997 constitution, freedom of religion is limited, Islam being the only religion accepted in public. Consequently, the vast majority of population professes adherence to Islam, reported as 98.4% as of 2010.\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\n301,475 (July 2000 est.) - 369,031 (July 2007 est.)\n\n\n\n\n\nThe average Maldivian citizen has 4.7 years of education\n\n"}
{"id": "58255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58255", "title": "Duke", "text": "Duke\n\nA duke (male) or duchess (female) can either be a monarch ruling over a duchy or a member of royalty or nobility, historically of highest rank below the monarch. The title comes from French \"duc\", itself from the Latin \"dux\", 'leader', a term used in republican Rome to refer to a military commander without an official rank (particularly one of Germanic or Celtic origin), and later coming to mean the leading military commander of a province.\n\nThe title dux survived in the Eastern Roman Empire where it was used in several contexts signifying a rank equivalent to a captain or general. Later on, in the 11th century, the title Megas Doux was introduced for the post of commander-in-chief of the entire navy.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages the title (as \"Herzog\") signified first among the Germanic monarchies. Dukes were the rulers of the provinces and the superiors of the counts in the cities and later, in the feudal monarchies, the highest-ranking peers of the king. A duke may or may not be, \"ipso facto\", a member of the nation's peerage: in the United Kingdom and Spain all dukes are/were also peers of the realm, in France some were and some were not, while the term is not applicable to dukedoms of other nations, even where an institution similar to the peerage (e.g., Grandeeship, Imperial Diet, Hungarian House of Magnates) existed.\n\nDuring the 19th century many of the smaller German and Italian states were ruled by Dukes or Grand Dukes. But at present, with the exception of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, there are no dukes ruling as monarchs. Duke remains the highest hereditary title (aside from titles borne by the reigning or formerly reigning dynasty) in Portugal (though now a republic), Spain, and the United Kingdom. In Sweden, members of the Royal Family are given a personal dukedom at birth. The Pope, as a temporal sovereign, has also, though rarely, granted the title of Duke or Duchess to persons for \"services\" to the Holy See. In some realms the relative status of \"duke\" and \"prince\", as titles borne by the nobility rather than by members of reigning dynasties, varied—e.g., in Italy and the Netherlands.\n\nA woman who holds in her own right the title to such duchy or dukedom, or is the wife of a duke, is normally styled duchess. Queen Elizabeth II, however, is known by tradition as Duke of Normandy in the Channel Islands and Duke of Lancaster in Lancashire.\n\nA duchy is the territory or geopolitical entity ruled by a duke, whereas his title or area is often called a dukedom. The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is a fully independent state and its head, the Grand Duke, is a sovereign monarch reigning over his Luxembourgish subjects. \n\nThe Duke of Cornwall holds both the dukedom (title) and duchy (estate holdings), the latter being the source of his personal income; those living on the ducal estates are subjects of the British sovereign and owe neither fealty nor services to the duke \"per se\". In Scotland the male heir apparent to the British crown is always the Duke of Rothesay as well, but this is a dukedom (title) without a duchy. Similarly, the British monarch rules and owns the Duchy of Lancaster as Duke of Lancaster, but it is held separately from the Crown, with the income of the duchy estates providing the Sovereign's Privy Purse. \n\nThe Channel Islands are two of the three remaining Crown Dependencies, the last vestiges of the lands of the Duchy of Normandy. The Islanders in their loyal toast will say \"La Reine, notre Duc\" (The Queen, Our Duke). Though the title was apparently renounced under the Treaty of Paris in 1259, the Crown still maintains that the title is retained: \"In 1106, William's youngest son Henry I seized the Duchy of Normandy from his brother Robert; since that time, the English Sovereign has always held the title Duke of Normandy,\" and that \"By 1205, England had lost most of its French lands, including Normandy. However, the Channel Islands, part of the lost Duchy, remained a self-governing possession of the English Crown. While the islands today retain autonomy in government, they owe allegiance to The Queen in her role as Duke of Normandy.\"\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, after Roman power in Western Europe collapsed, the title was still employed in the Germanic kingdoms, usually to refer to the rulers of old Roman provinces.\n\nIn 1332, Robert of Taranto succeeded his father, Philip. Robert's uncle, John, did not wish to do him homage for the Principality of Achaea, so Robert received Achaea from John in exchange for 5,000 ounces of gold and the rights to the diminished Kingdom of Albania. John took the style of Duke of Durazzo (today Durrës).\n\nIn 1368, Durazzo fell to Karl Thopia, who was recognized by Venice as \"Prince of Albania\".\n\nThe Visigoths retained the Roman divisions of their kingdom in the Iberian Peninsula and it seems that dukes ruled over these areas. They were the most powerful landowners and, along with the bishops, elected the king, usually from their own midst. They were the military commanders and in this capacity often acted independently from the king, most notably in the latter period before the Muslim invasions.\n\nThe army was structured decimally with the highest unit, the thiufa, probably corresponding to about 1,000 people from each \"civitas\" (city district). The cities were commanded by counts, who were in turn answerable to the dukes, who called up the \"thiufae\" when necessary.\n\nWhen the Lombards entered Italy, the Latin chroniclers called their war leaders \"duces\" in the old fashion. These leaders eventually became the provincial rulers, each with a recognized seat of government. Though nominally loyal to the king, the concept of kingship was new to the Lombards and the dukes were highly independent, especially in central and southern Italy, where the Duke of Spoleto and the Duke of Benevento were \"de facto\" sovereigns. In 575, when Cleph died, a period known as the Rule of the Dukes, in which the dukes governed without a king, commenced. It lasted only a decade before the disunited magnates, in order to defend the kingdom from external attacks, elected a new king and even diminished their own duchies to provide him with a handsome royal demesne.\n\nThe Lombard kings were usually drawn from the duke pool when the title was not hereditary. The dukes tried to make their own offices hereditary. Beneath them in the internal structure were the counts and gastalds, a uniquely Lombard title initially referring to judicial functions, similar to a count's, in provincial regions\n\nThe Franks employed dukes as the governors of Roman provinces, though they also led military expeditions far from their duchies. The dukes were the highest-ranking officials in the realm, typically Frankish (whereas the counts were often Gallo-Roman), and formed the class from which the kings' generals were chosen in times of war. The dukes met with the king every May to discuss policy for the upcoming year, the so-called Mayfield.\n\nIn Burgundy and Provence, the titles of patrician and prefect were commonly employed instead of duke, probably for historical reasons relating to the greater Romanization of those provinces. But the titles were basically equivalent.\n\nIn late Merovingian Gaul, the mayors of the palace of the Arnulfing clan began to use the title \"dux et princeps Francorum\": \"duke and prince of the Franks\". In this title, \"duke\" implied supreme military control of the entire nation (\"Francorum\", the Franks) and it was thus used until the end of the Carolingian dynasty in France in 987.\n\nThe stem duchies were the constituent duchies of the kingdom of Germany at the time of the extinction of the Carolingian dynasty (the death of Louis the Child in 911) and the transitional period leading to the formation of the Holy Roman Empire later in the 10th century.\n\nIn Anglo-Saxon England, where the Roman political divisions were largely abandoned, the highest political rank beneath that of king was ealdorman, and the first ealdormen were referred to as \"duces\" (the plural of the original Latin \"dux\") in the chronicles. The title ealdorman was replaced by the Danish \"eorl\" (later earl) over time. After the Norman conquest, their power and regional jurisdiction was limited to that of the Norman counts.\n\nEdward III of England created the first English dukedom by naming his eldest son Edward, the Black Prince, as Duke of Cornwall in 1337, after he lost his own title of Duke of Normandy. Upon the death of the Black Prince, the duchy of Cornwall passed to his nine-year-old son, who would eventually succeed his grandfather as Richard II.\n\nThe title of Duke of Lancaster was created by Edward III in 1351 for Henry of Grosmont, but became extinct upon the duke's death in 1361. The following year, Edward III bestowed the title (2nd creation) on his fourth son, John of Gaunt, who was also married to the first duke's daughter. On the same day Edward III also created his second son, Lionel of Antwerp, as Duke of Clarence.\n\nAll five of Edward III's surviving sons eventually became dukes. In 1385, ten years after their father's death, his heir Richard II created dukedoms for his last two uncles on the same day. Thomas of Woodstock was named Duke of Gloucester and Edmund of Langley became Duke of York, thereby founding the House of York, which later fought for the throne with John of Gaunt's Lancastrian descendants during the Wars of the Roses.\n\nBy 1483, a total of 16 ducal titles had been created: Cornwall, Lancaster, Clarence, Gloucester, York, Ireland, Hereford, Aumale, Exeter, Surrey, Norfolk, Bedford, Somerset, Buckingham, Warwick and Suffolk. Some became extinct, others had multiple creations, and some had merged with the crown upon the holder's accession to the throne. When the Plantagenet dynasty came to an end at the Battle of Bosworth Field on 22 August 1485, only four ducal titles remained extant, of which two were now permanently associated with the crown. John de la Pole was Duke of Suffolk and John Howard was Duke of Norfolk (2nd creation), while the duchy of Cornwall was reserved as a title and source of income for the eldest son of the sovereign, and the duchy of Lancaster was now held by the monarch.\n\nNorfolk perished alongside Richard III at Bosworth field, and the title was forfeit. It was restored to his son Thomas thirty years later by Henry VIII, as one of a number of dukes created or recreated by the Tudor dynasty over the ensuing century. England's premier ducal title, Norfolk, remains in the Howard family to this day.\n\nIn the 19th century, the sovereign dukes of Parma and Modena in Italy, and of Anhalt, Brunswick-Lüneburg, Nassau, Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, Saxe-Meiningen and Saxe-Altenburg in Germany survived Napoleon's reorganization.\n\nSince the unification of Italy in 1870 and the end of monarchy in Germany in 1918, there have no longer been any reigning dukes in Europe; Luxembourg is ruled by a grand duke, a higher title, just below king.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the inherited position of a duke along with its dignities, privileges, and rights is a dukedom. However, the title of \"duke\" has never been associated with independent rule in the British Isles: they hold dukedoms, not duchies (excepting the Duchy of Cornwall and the Duchy of Lancaster). Dukes in the United Kingdom are addressed as \"Your Grace\" and referred to as \"His Grace\". Currently, there are thirty-five dukedoms in the Peerage of England, Peerage of Scotland, Peerage of Great Britain, Peerage of Ireland and Peerage of the United Kingdom, held by thirty different people, as three people hold two dukedoms and one holds three (see List of dukes in the peerages of Britain and Ireland).\n\nSee wikt:en:duke for equivalents in other European languages.\n\nVarious royal houses traditionally awarded (mainly) dukedoms to the sons and in some cases, the daughters, of their respective sovereigns; others include at least one dukedom in a wider list of similarly granted titles, nominal dukedoms without any actual authority, often even without an estate. Such titles are still conferred on royal princes or princesses in the current European monarchies of Belgium, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom.\n\nOther historical cases occurred for example in Denmark, Finland (as a part of Sweden) and France, Portugal and some former colonial possessions such as Brazil and Haiti.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, ducal titles which have been given within the royal family include Duke of Cornwall, Duke of Lancaster, Duke of Clarence, Duke of York, Duke of Gloucester, Duke of Bedford, Duke of Cumberland, Duke of Cambridge, Duke of Rothesay, Duke of Albany, Duke of Ross, Duke of Edinburgh, Duke of Kent, Duke of Sussex, and Duke of Connaught and Strathearn. \n\nFollowing his abdication in 1936 the former King Edward VIII was given the title Duke of Windsor.\n\nIn Belgium, the title of Duke of Brabant (historically the most prestigious in the Low Countries, and containing the federal capital Brussels), if still vacant, has been awarded preferentially to the eldest son and heir apparent of the king, other male dynasts receiving various lower historical titles (much older than Belgium, and in principle never fallen to the Belgian crown), such as Count of Flanders (King Leopold III's so-titled brother Charles held the title when he became the realm's temporary head of state as prince-regent) and Prince of Liège (a secularised version of the historical prince-bishopric; e.g. King Albert II until he succeeded his older brother Baudouin I).\n\nDenmark's kings gave appanages in their twin-duchies of Schleswig-Holstein (now three-fourths of them is part of Germany, but then the Holstein half of it was part of the Holy Roman Empire in personal union with Denmark proper) to younger sons or their male-line descendants, with a specific though not sovereign title of Duke, e.g., Duke of Gottorp, Duke of Sonderburg, Duke of Augustenborg, Duke of Franzhagen, Duke of Beck, Duke of Glucksburg and Duke of Norburg.\n\nWhen the Christian Reconquista, sweeping the Moors from the former Caliphate of Córdoba and its taifa-remnants, transformed the territory of former Suevic and Visigothic realms into Catholic feudal principalities, none of these warlords was exactly styled Duke. A few (as Portugal itself) started as Count (even if the title of Dux was sometimes added), but soon all politically relevant princes were to use the royal style of King.\n\nIn Portugal, the title of Duke was granted for the first time in 1415 to infante Peter and infante Henry, the second and third sons of king John I, following their participation in the successful Conquest of Ceuta. Pedro became the first Duke of Coimbra and Henry the first Duke of Viseu.\n\nFrom the reign of king Manuel I, the title of Duke of Beja was given to the second son of the monarch. This was changed during the Liberal regime in the 19th century (with queen Maria II), when the first infante (second son of the monarch) got the title of Duke of Porto and the second infante (third son) was known as Duke of Beja.\n\nThere are examples of Duke as a subsidiary title, granted to the most powerful noble Houses:\n\nUsually, the title of Duke was granted to relatives of the Royal Family, such as the infantes or natural sons of the monarch. There are exceptions, such as António José de Ávila, who, although not having any relation to the royal family, was given the title of duke of Ávila and Bolama in the 19th Century.\n\nSpanish infantes and infantas were usually given a dukedom upon marriage, excepting the heir apparent who is the Prince of Asturias. This title is nowadays not hereditary but carries a Grandeza de España. The current royal duchesses are: HRH the Duchess of Badajoz (Infanta Maria del Pilar), HRH the Duchess of Soria (Infanta Margarita) (although she inherited the title of Duchess of Hernani from her cousin and is second holder of that title), and HRH the Duchess of Lugo (Infanta Elena).\nIn Spain all the dukes hold the court rank of \"Grande\", i.e., Grandee of the realm, which had precedence over all other feudatories.\n\nThe Northern European duchies of Halland, Jutland, Lolland, Osilia and Reval existed in the Middle Ages. The longest-surviving duchy was Schleswig, i.e., \"Sonderjylland\" (a portion of which later became part of Germany). Its southern neighbor, the duchy of Holstein, in personal union with the Danish crown, was nonetheless always a German principality. The two duchies jointly became a member of the German \"Bundesland\" as \"Schleswig-Holstein\" in the 19th century.\n\nIn Sweden, medieval duchies of Finland, Södermanland, Skåne, and Halland were some appanages for princes of the reigning dynasty. In modern times almost every province in Sweden was used as the territorial designation for a royal prince's dukedom.\n\nSweden had a history of making the sons of its kings ruling princes of vast duchies, but this ceased in 1622. Only one non-royal person was ever given a dukedom. In 1772, King Gustav III reinstated the appointment of dukes but as a non-hereditary title for his brothers. Since then, all Swedish princes have been created dukes of a province at birth. When the 1810 Act of Succession was amended to allow female succession to the throne, King Carl XVI Gustaf's eldest daughter Victoria became Crown Princess (displacing her younger brother Carl Philip) and received the title of Duchess of Västergötland. The practice of conferring ducal titles has since extended to Swedish princesses as well as princes. Currently, there are five dukes and four duchesses in their own right. The territorial designations of these dukedoms refer to ten of the Provinces of Sweden.\n\nKey parts of Finland were sometimes under a Duke of Finland during the Swedish reign. Some of the provinces are still considered duchies for the purposes of heraldry.\n\nSee appanage (mainly for the French kingdom) and the list in the geographical section below, which also treats special ducal titles in orders or national significance.\n\nThe highest precedence in the realm, attached to a feudal territory, was given to the twelve original pairies (en: \"peers\"), which also had a traditional function in the royal coronation, comparable to the German imperial archoffices. Half of them were ducal: three ecclesiastical (the six prelates all ranked above the six secular peers of the realm) and three temporal, each time above three counts of the same social estate:\nThe \"Prince-Bishops\" with ducal territories among them were:\nLater, the Archbishop of Paris was given the title of \"duc de Saint-Cloud\" with the dignity of peerage, but it was debated if he was an ecclesiastical peer or merely a bishop holding a lay peerage.\n\nThe secular dukes in the peerage of the realm were, again in order of precedence:\n\nThe theory of the participation of the peers in the coronation was laid down in the late 13th century, when some of the peerage (the Duchy of Normandy and the County of Toulouse) had already been merged in the crown.\n\nAt the end of this same century, the king elevated some counties into duchies, a practice that increased up until the Revolution. Many of this duchies were also peerages (the so-called 'new peerages').\n\nIn Italy, Germany and Austria the title of \"duke\" (\"duca\" in Italian, and \"Herzog\" in German) was quite common. As the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation (HRE) was until its dissolution a feudal structure, most of its Dukes were actually reigning in their lands. As the titles from the HRE were taken over after its dissolution, or in Italy after their territories became independent of the Empire, both countries also had a share of fully sovereign dukes. Also, in Germany in many ducal families every agnate would bear the ducal title of the family as a courtesy title.\n\nIn Italy some important sovereign ducal families were the Visconti and the Sforza, who ruled Milan; the Savoia in Piedmont; the Medici of Florence; the Farnese of Parma and Piacenza; the Cybo-Malaspina of Massa; the Gonzaga of Mantua; the Este of Modena and Ferrara. The maritime republics of Venice and Genoa were ruled by elected Doges, a word which comes from the same Latin root as \"Duke\".\n\nIn Germany, important ducal families were the Wittelsbachs in Bavaria, the Welfs in Hannover, the ducal family of Cleves, the Wettins in Saxony (with its Ernestine branch divided into several duchies), the Württembergs, the Mecklenburgs and the Habsburgs in Austria as \"Archdukes\". In the German Confederation the Nassaus, the Ascanians of Anhalt, the Welf branch of Brunswick and the Ernestine lines of the Saxon duchies were the sovereign ducal families.\n\nIn the Kingdom of Hungary no ducal principalities existed but duchies were often formed for members of the dynasty as appanages. During the rule of the Árpád dynasty dukes held territorial powers, some of them even minted coins, but later this title became more often nominal.\nThese duchies usually were\n\nIn the Jagellonian era (1490–1526) only two dukes did not belong to the royal dynasty: John Corvin (the illegitimate son of Matthias Corvinus) and Lőrinc Újlaki (whose father was the king of Bosnia), and both bore the title as royal dukes.\n\nAfter the Battle of Mohács the Habsburg kings rewarded Hungarian aristocrats (like the Esterházys) with princely titles, but they created these titles as Holy Roman Emperors, not as kings of Hungary.\n\nAs the Catholic crusaders overran Orthodox Christian parts of the Byzantine empire, they installed several crusader states (see Frangokratia), some of which were of ducal rank:\n\nThe Byzantines retained the title \"dux\", transcribed as \"doux\" in Greek. As in the later Roman Empire, it remained a military office. In the 10th century, it was given to the military commanders over several \"themata\" (also known as \"katepano\"), and in the late 11th century it became used for the governor of a \"thema\".\n\nIn Italy and other western countries, the later Byzantine appanages of the Palaiologan period were sometimes translated as duchies: the Morea, Mesembria, Selymbria and Thessaloniki. However, as these had Greek holders, they were titled \"Archon\" (\"magistrate\") or \"Despotes\".\n\nIn the independent Kingdom of Greece, the style of Duke of Sparta was instituted in 1868 upon the birth of Constantine I as a distinct title for the crown prince of Greece.\n\nGenerally, confusion reigns whether to translate the usual ruler titles, \"knyaz/ knez/ ksiaze\" etc. as Prince (analogous to the German Fürst) or as Duke;\n\nAfter Belgium and the Netherlands separated in 1830, the title of duke no longer existed in the Netherlands. There is, however, one exception; the title \"Hertog van Limburg\" (\"Duke of Limburg\") still exists. This title, however, is an exclusive title for the head of state (the monarch, i.e., the king or queen of the Netherlands).\n\nIn the Empire of Brazil duke was the highest rank for people born outside the imperial house and only three dukedoms were created. Two of these titles were for relatives of Emperor Pedro I: an illegitimate daughter and a brother-in-law who received the title when married to Pedro I's daughter Maria II. The third, given to Luís Alves de Lima e Silva, was the only dukedom created during the reign of Pedro II. None of these titles were hereditary, just like every other title in the Brazilian nobility system.\n\nThe royal Christophe dynasty created eight hereditary dukedoms, in rank directly below the nominal princes. They were short-lived and only recognised in the country.\n\nLike other major Western noble titles, Duke is sometimes used to render (translate) certain titles in non-western languages. \"Duke\" is used even though those titles are generally etymologically and often historically unrelated and thus hard to compare. However, they are considered roughly equivalent, especially in hierarchic aristocracies such as feudal Japan, useful as an indication of relative rank.\n\nIndian feudal system cannot be fully translated to its European counterparts. The closest equivalent to the title of Sovereign Duke is Rao and to a feudal duchy, a large jagir. Thus, a Rao (in the ruling system) or a Jagirdar, Deshmukh, Patil and Zamindar (in a feudal way) are closely equivalent to a Duke.\n\nDuke in Turkey, Afghanistan and Iran after Mongolian war against them, was added as generals and kings of districts or states but in the Kingdom of Persians and Ottomans, the systems cannot be fully translated to its European counterparts so they called those generals and kings as Khan, a Mongolian royal and noble rank from the Turco-Mongol word for \"lord,\" equal to Duke. After, revolutions and falling Empire system in those countries(changing the ruling system to democratic and republic systems), those Khans and the other equal ranks titles added to the titleholder's surnames and the ranking system as usual was disqualified as an official ranking.\n\nDuring the era of feudalism in Ancient China (Western Zhou, Spring and Autumn period and the Warring States period), the title of \"gōng\" (公, conventionally translated as \"Duke\") was sparingly granted. In a tradition called \"Three Deferences and Two Royal Descendants\" (三恪二王後), the three former royal houses were granted the title of Duke. For the Zhou dynasty, this would be the descendants of the Xia Dynasty and Shang Dynasty; their dukedoms were respectively the states of Qi (杞) and Song (宋). When the rulers of these states called at the Zhou court, the king greeted them as equals, out of deference of their former status as royalty.\n\nNoble titles also existed in subsequent periods.\n\nThe Duke of Yansheng noble title was granted to the descendants of Confucius. In 1935, the Nationalist Government changed the title to Sacrificial Official to Confucius (大成至聖先師奉祀官), which still exists as an office of the Republic of China, de facto hereditary.\n\nDukedoms and other lesser titles were also awarded, sometimes posthumously (see posthumous names), during the imperial period of Chinese history to recognize distinguished civil and military officials. For example, Emperor Lizong of Song granted the posthumous title Duke of Hui (徽国公) to the Neo-Confucian thinker Zhu Xi.\n\nThe Javanese kingdom of Majapahit, which dominated eastern Java in the 14th and 15th centuries, was divided into \"nagara\" (provinces). The administration of these \"nagara\" was entrusted to members of the royal family, who bore the title of \"Bhre\"—i.e., \"Bhra i\", \"lord of\" (the word \"bhra\" being akin to the Thai \"Phra\"), followed by the name of the land they were entrusted with: for example a sister of king Hayam Wuruk (r. 1350–1389) was \"Bhre Lasem\", \"lady of Lasem\". This system was similar to the Apanage system in Western Europe.\n\nSultan Agung, king of Mataram in Central Java (r. 1613–1645), would entrust the administration of territories he gradually conquered all over the island of Java, to officials bearing the title of \"Adipati\", this title is hereditary. Such territories were called \"Kadipaten\". Prior to the unification of Java by Sultan Agung, independent \"kadipaten\"s also exist, e.g. the Duchy of Surabaya which was conquered by Agung in 1625.\n\nThe VOC (Dutch East Indies Company), while gradually taking control of Javanese territory, would maintain the existing Mataram administrative structure. \"Adipati\" were called \"\"regenten\" in Dutch, and the territories they administered, \"regentschappen\"\".\n\nIn the 19th century, the Javanese term for \"regent\" was \"bupati\". French traveller Gérard Louis Domeny de Rienzi mentions \"bapati\".\n\nThe \"bupati\" have been maintained in the modern Indonesian administrative subdivision structure, heading a \"kabupaten\", the subdivision of a \"provinsi\" or province.\n\nThe word \"Adipati\" is still found in the official title of the hereditary dukes Mangkunegara of Surakarta and Paku Alam of Yogyakarta—i.e., \"Kanjeng Gusti Pangeran Adipati Arya\" (shortened into KGPAA).\n\nIn the Kingdom of Benin, a viceroyal chieftain that is known as an \"Enogie\" in the Edo language is usually referred to as a duke in English. Often a cadet of the dynasty that produces the Oba of Benin, the enogie is expected to rule his domain as he sees fit, subject to the approval of the oba.\n\nIn Ife, Oyo and the other kingdoms of Nigerian Yorubaland, a viceroyal chieftain is known as a \"Baale\" in the Yoruba language. He is barred from wearing a crown as a matter of tradition, and is generally seen as the reigning representative of a monarch who has the right to wear one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57998526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57998526", "title": "Dutch Tamils", "text": "Dutch Tamils\n\nDutch Tamils or Holland Tamils are people of ethnic Tamil ancestry who reside in Netherlands. Around 20,000 Tamils mostly from Sri Lanka are estimated to be living in Netherlands. The relationship between Tamils and Dutch dates back to the colonial era. The Dutch East India Company was active in Sri Lanka and Southern India. In Sri Lanka, most of Tamil areas were under Dutch Ceylon rule between 1640–1796. During Dutch rule some Dutch loanwords were adopted in Sri Lankan Tamil language. Back then Tamils and Malayalis were known as \"Malabars\" among the Portuguese and Dutch.\n\nThe earliest Tamil immigrants to Netherlands came in the 1980s, and were primarily educated personnel, businessmen and students. When the Sri Lankan civil war break out, many Tamils migrated 1984 onward were asylum seekers. Between 1984 and 1987, more than 3,500 Tamil mens arrived in Netherlands. A Second wave of Tamil refugees came between 1990 and 1992, which incluced women's and children. Since 1995, the population of Sri Lankans in Netherlands has doubled, in 1996 there were 5,600 and in 2010 there were 10,346 people.\n\nDutch Tamils have low unemployment level, because they have show willingness to accept jobs, that is below their qualifications. They attach great importance to education and also pay attention to their children's education. Dutch Tamils live mostly in small towns like Zeist, Utrecht, Nieuwegein, Roermond, Den Bosch, Breda, Den Helder and Hoorn, because the former refugees were settled away from big cities like Amsterdam.\n\nMost of Tamils living in Netherlands are Hindus and there are many Tamil Hindu temples (Kovils) in Netherlands like Vinayagar Temple in Den Helder or Murugan Temple in Roermond. There are Tamil Christian minorities, who belong to catholic and evangelic faith.\n"}
{"id": "27144701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27144701", "title": "Elmer H. Inman", "text": "Elmer H. Inman\n\nElmer H. Inman (1880 – June 11, 1939) was an American criminal, bank robber, jewel thief and Depression-era outlaw. At one time considered Oklahoma's \"Public Enemy No. 1\", he was a member of the Kimes-Terrill Gang and associated with Herman Barker and Wilbur Underhill, Jr. throughout the early-1930s.\n\nElmer Inman was born in Kansas in 1880. He received his first major criminal conviction for his participation in a jewelry heist in Arkansas City and was sentenced to serve at least 10 years in Leavenworth Penitentiary. Once inside, he managed to get into the good graces of Warden J.K. Codding and his family. Inman was able to convince the warden he had been \"jobbed\" for the robbery and eventually became his chauffeur. Inman was also wonderfully attentive to the warden's sickly wife and began a romantic relationship with his daughter Lavona. The two were married in August 1921, shortly after Inman's parole.\n\nWhile Lavona petitioned the state of Kansas to pardon her husband however, Inman was arrested for stealing a car in Oklahoma and was sent back to Leavenworth. It was also discovered around this time that Inman had been selling stolen jewelry throughout his time as an inmate and was charged with using the prison mail to defraud. On November 8, 1921, his marriage to Lavona was annulled on the grounds that, while a convicted felon, his marriage could not be recognized by the state.\n\nFinally released in 1926, Inman remained in Kansas despite his past trouble with the law. On June 7, he was arrested with Herman Barker while driving a stolen car in Fort Scott. While in custody, it was discovered that Inman was wanted for the robbery of a bank and post office in Ketchum, Oklahoma. Before he could be extradited, Inman was released on bail and left the state. He was arrested a few days later with Ray Terrill for a burglary in Ardmore, Oklahoma.\n\nOn September 27, he and Terrill overpowered a guard in the Carter County jail and escaped. Two months later, he was suspected in participating in the Sallisaw break out of Matthew Kimes by Herman Barker and Ray Terrill on November 9, 1926. At the time of his escape, Kimes was appealing his 35-year sentence for robbery and murder.\n\nFollowing the jail break of Matthew Kimes, Inman became a regular member of the Kimes-Terrill Gang. Arrested for burglarizing an Oklahoma City store on December 27, 1926, he was convicted and sentenced to 7 years imprisonment on February 9, 1927. While being transported to McAlester, Inman escaped from custody near Bolton and soon rejoined the gang.\n\nAfter a near-5 month crime spree across Kansas and Oklahoma, Kimes and gang member Raymond Doolin were arrested at the Grand Canyon in June. Inman and Terrill hid in Arkansas for a few months until their arrest in Hot Springs on November 26, 1927, and were extradited back to face authorities in Oklahoma. By the end of the year, they were back in McAlester where the two were reunited with Matthew and George Kimes.\n\nThough Kimes and Terrill would remain in prison, Inman would be released on parole by the early 1930s. He may have been involved with the Barker-Karpis Gang during 1932 and 1933, especially due to his former association with Herman Barker, but by late-1933 he had aligned himself with Wilbur Underhill, Jr. and his mob.\n\nTogether they tried to seal a safe from a Harrah bank on December 12, 1933, but it ended up falling through the weak floorboards and into the basement. The next day, Inman was named as one of two unidentified men who stole $4,000 from a bank in Coalgate. Underhill was mortally wounded when police stormed his honeymoon cottage on December 30, 1933, and died at the prison hospital in McAlester on January 6, 1934. Inman was arrested a day later when police spotted him at a gas station in Bowlegs, Oklahoma and was injured while resisting arrest; his girlfriend Lena Nichols was also arrested. Returned to McAlester. Inman was paroled in 1939 and relocated to Medford, Oregon. He was killed in a car crash at Project City, California, on November 18, 1955 and buried in Redding, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "16489351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16489351", "title": "Gaur Rajput", "text": "Gaur Rajput\n\nThe Gaur Rajput (also \"Gour\") is a clan of the Rajputs in India.\n"}
{"id": "43659179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43659179", "title": "He never married", "text": "He never married\n\n\"He never married\" was a code phrase used by obituary writers in the United Kingdom as a euphemism for the deceased having been homosexual. Its use has been dated to the second half of the twentieth century and it may be found in coded and non-coded forms such as when the subject never married but was not homosexual. A similar phrase is \"confirmed bachelor\".\n\nThe phrase was a staple euphemism of obituary writers used to imply that the subject was homosexual. The ambiguity of the phrase has been commented on, however, by a number of sources. In 1999, James Fergusson, writing in \"Secrets of the Press\" about the coded language of obituaries that he compared with the clues in a cryptic crossword, commented \" 'He never married' closed an obituary with numbing finality\" and asked \"Did it, or did it not, mean that he was a hyperactive homosexual?\"\n\nIn 2006, Nigel Rees dated its use to the second half of the twentieth century and noted that it can also be used without any implication of homosexuality, and that it also served the purpose of avoiding the use of the word gay for subjects who were open about their homosexuality but disliked the word \"gay\". In 2007, Bridget Fowler also noted that the phrase could be used without a double meaning in her book \"The Obituary as Collective Memory\".\n\nRose Wild of \"The Times\" has observed, however, that even where used in an apparently non-coded form in historic obituaries, the phrase could still be revealing of the subject, giving the example of a school master's obituary in 1923 that stated \"he never married\" but continued that he \"usually spent his holidays in a little inn frequented by seafaring men at Falmouth\".\n\nIn 2016, Christian Barker of \"The Rake\", observed \"Until quite recently, obituary writers had a habit of concluding with the euphemism 'He never married' to subtly indicate that the subject was gay\", but continued by connecting the phrase to misogamy rather than homosexuality and asserting that there were plenty of examples of \" 'confirmed bachelors' simply shrugging off the shackles of matrimony and choosing to remain single throughout their lives—experiencing no less success because of it\".\n\nIn 2017, Rose Wild wrote in \"The Times\" that the use of \"He never married\" began to die out in the late 1980s, \"but not before it had become absurd\". She noted its \"otiose\" use in the paper's obituaries for Robert Mapplethorpe (died 1989) and Danny La Rue (died 2009).\n\nA similar euphemism was \"confirmed bachelor\", which was used in the second half of the twentieth century by the satirical magazine \"Private Eye\". Rose Wild reported in \"The Times\" in May 2016, however, that she could only find around a dozen examples of the phrase in the paper's obituaries, some of which were of a non-coded form, causing her to wonder whether the phrase existed much outside the imagination of the writers of \"Private Eye\".\n"}
{"id": "58927325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58927325", "title": "Initiative Q", "text": "Initiative Q\n\nInitiative Q is an attempt to create a new payment network and digital currency. It was created by Israeli entrepreneur Saar Wilf, who previously founded Fraud Sciences, a payment security company acquired by PayPal. Q is backed by Cato Institute economist Lawrence H. White. Unlike Bitcoin the scheme would not take measures to evade state regulation.\n\nThe currency is marketed through chain email multi-level marketing, and will not be released until a critical mass of adopters identify themselves. In November 2018, Vox.com reported that more than 2 Million people had signed-up in 180 countries.\n\nIn October 2018, Frank Chung of news.com.au wrote that the marketing style could be \"perceived as a scam or pyramid scheme\". and FINTECH Singapore and Daniel Huszák of portfolio.hu compared it to multi-level marketing without the fee. Owen Gough of Digital Spy wrote \n\"Is Initiative Q real or fake? Short answer – we have absolutely no idea.\"\n\nBrendan Markey-Tower of Stuff.co.nz explained in November 2018 that the scheme wouldn't \"make you fabulously wealthy. It is, nonetheless, an interesting idea\".\n\nHuszák enumerated potential problems with the scheme such as no clear crypto-currency security measures, unclear transaction/exchange costs, and potential for market manipulation by the largest holders of currency.\n"}
{"id": "2465992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2465992", "title": "Irish nationality law", "text": "Irish nationality law\n\nIrish nationality law is contained in the provisions of the \"Irish Nationality and Citizenship Acts 1956 to 2004\" and in the relevant provisions of the Irish Constitution. A person may be an Irish citizen through birth, descent, marriage to an Irish citizen or through naturalisation. The law grants citizenship to individuals born in Northern Ireland under the same conditions as those born in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nIrish citizenship originates from Article 3 of the Constitution of the Irish Free State which came into force on 6 December 1922, however Irish citizenship applied only domestically until the enactment of the Twenty-sixth Amendment on 5 April 1935 which applied it internationally. Any person domiciled in the island of Ireland on 6 December 1922 was an Irish citizen if:\n\nexcept that \"any such person being a citizen of another State\" could \"[choose] not to accept\" Irish citizenship. (The Article also stated that \"the conditions governing the future acquisition and termination of citizenship in the Irish Free State [...] shall be determined by law\".)\n\nWhile the Constitution referred to those domiciled \"in the area of the jurisdiction of the Irish Free State\", this was interpreted as meaning the entire island. This was because the Constitution was formally governed by the terms of the 1921 Anglo-Irish Treaty, which stated that \"the powers of the Parliament and government of the Irish Free State shall not be exercisable as respects Northern Ireland\" before 6 January 1923, unless in that time both the two Houses of the Parliament of Northern Ireland had exercised a right to present an address to the King that \"the powers of the Parliament and Government of the Irish Free State shall no longer extend to Northern Ireland\". The two Houses exercised that right within two days of the Constitution coming into force on 6 December 1922. As a result of this background, it was held by the Irish Free State's courts that Northern Ireland had been \"within the jurisdiction of the Irish Free State\" on 6 December 1922.\n\nThe status of the Irish Free State as a dominion within the British Commonwealth was seen by the British authorities as meaning that a \"citizen of the Irish Free State\" was merely a member of the wider category of \"British subject\"; this interpretation could be supported by the wording of Article 3 of the Constitution, which stated that the privileges and obligations of Irish citizenship applied \"within the limits of the jurisdiction of the Irish Free State\". However, the Irish authorities repeatedly rejected the idea that its citizens had the additional status of \"British subject\". Also, while the Oath of Allegiance for members of the Oireachtas, as set out in Article 17 of the Constitution, and as required by Art. 4 of the Treaty, referred to \"the common citizenship of Ireland with Great Britain\", a 1929 memorandum on nationality and citizenship prepared by the Department of Justice at the request of the Department of External Affairs for the Conference on the Operation of Dominion Legislation stated:\nThe reference to 'common citizenship' in the Oath means little or nothing. 'Citizenship' is not a term of English law at all. There is not, in fact, 'common citizenship' throughout the British Commonwealth: the Indian 'citizen' is treated by the Australian 'citizen' as an undesirable alien.\n\nIrish passports were issued from 1923, and to the general public from 1924, but the British government objected to them, and their wording for many years. Using an Irish Free State passport abroad, if consular assistance from a British Embassy was required, could lead to administrative difficulties.\n\nThe 1922 Constitution provided for citizenship for only those alive on 6 December 1922. No provision was made for those born after this date. As such it was a temporary provision which required the enactment of a fully-fledged citizenship law which was done by the \"Irish Nationality and Citizenship Act 1935\". This Act provided for, among other things:\nThe provision of citizenship by descent had the effect, given the interpretation noted above, of providing citizenship for those in Northern Ireland born after 6 December 1922 so long as their father had been resident anywhere in Ireland on said date. However, this automatic entitlement was limited to the first generation, with the citizenship of subsequent generations requiring registration and the surrendering of any other citizenship held at the age of 21. The combination of the principles of birth and descent in the Act respected the state's territorial boundary, with residents of Northern Ireland treated \"in an identical manner to persons of Irish birth or descent who resided in Britain or a foreign country\". According to Brian Ó Caoindealbháin, the 1935 Act was, therefore, compatible with the state's existing borders, respecting and, in effect, reinforcing them.\n\nThe Act also provided for the establishment of the Foreign Births Register.\n\nFurther, the 1935 Act was an attempt to assert the sovereignty of the Free State and the distinct nature of Irish citizenship, and to end the ambiguity over the relations between Irish citizenship and British subject status. Nonetheless, London continued to recognise Irish citizens as British subjects until the passing of the Ireland Act 1949, which recognised, as a distinct class of persons, \"citizens of the Republic of Ireland\".\n\nBeginning in 1923, some new economic rights were created for Irish citizens. The 1923 Land Act allowed the Irish Land Commission to refuse to allow a purchase of farmland by a non-Irish citizen; during the Anglo-Irish Trade War the Control of Manufactures Act 1932 required that at least 50% of the ownership of Irish-registered companies had to be held by Irish citizens.\n\nThe 1937 Constitution of Ireland simply maintained the previous citizenship body, also providing, as the previous constitution had done, that the further acquisition and loss of Irish citizenship was to be regulated by law.\n\nWith regard to Northern Ireland, despite the irredentist nature and rhetorical claims of articles 2 and 3 of the new constitution, the compatibility of Irish citizenship law with the state's boundaries remained unaltered.\n\nIn 1956, the Irish parliament enacted the \"Irish Nationality and Citizenship Act 1956\". This Act repealed the 1935 Act and remains, although heavily amended, the basis of Irish citizenship law. This act, according to Ó Caoindealbháin, altered radically the treatment of Northern Ireland residents in Irish citizenship law. With the enactment of the Republic of Ireland Act in 1948, and the subsequent passage of the Ireland Act by the British government in 1949, the state's constitutional independence was assured, facilitating the resolution of the unsatisfactory position from an Irish nationalist perspective whereby births in Northern Ireland were assimilated to \"foreign\" births. The Irish government was explicit in its aim to amend this situation, seeking to extend citizenship as widely as possible to Northern Ireland, as well as to Irish emigrants and their descendents abroad.\n\nThe Act therefore provided for Irish citizenship for anyone born in the island of Ireland whether before or after independence. The only limitations to which were that anyone born in Northern Ireland was not automatically an Irish citizen but entitled to be an Irish citizen and, that a child of someone entitled to diplomatic immunity in the state would not become an Irish citizen. The Act also provided for open-ended citizenship by descent and for citizenship by registration for the wives (but not husbands) of Irish citizens.\n\nThe treatment of Northern Ireland residents in these sections had considerable significance for the state's territorial boundaries, given that their \"sensational effect … was to confer, in the eyes of Irish law, citizenship on the vast majority of the Northern Ireland population\". The compatibility\nof this innovation with international law, according to Ó Caoindealbháin was dubious, \"given its attempt to regulate the citizenship of an external territory ... In seeking to extend \"jus soli\" citizenship beyond the state’s jurisdiction, the 1956 Act openly sought to subvert the territorial boundary between North and South\". The implications of the Act were readily recognised in Northern Ireland, with Lord Brookeborough tabling a motion in the Parliament of Northern Ireland repudiating “the gratuitous attempt … to inflict unwanted Irish Republican nationality upon the people of Northern Ireland”.\n\nNevertheless, Irish citizenship continued to be extended to the inhabitants of Northern Ireland for over 40 years, representing, according to Ó Caoindealbháin, \"one of the few practical expressions of the Irish state’s irredentism.\" Ó Caoindealbháin concludes, however, that the Good Friday Agreement of 1998 altered significantly the territorial implications of Irish citizenship law, if somewhat ambiguously, via two key provisions: the renunciation of the constitutional territorial claim over Northern Ireland, and the recognition of \"the birthright of all the people of Northern Ireland to identify themselves and be accepted\nas Irish or British or both, as they may so choose\", and that \"their right to hold both British and Irish citizenship is accepted by both Governments\".\n\nIn regard to international law, Ó Caoindealbháin states that, although it is the attempt to confer citizenship extra-territorially without the agreement of the state affected that represents a breach of international law (not the actual extension), the 1956 Act \"co-exists uneasily with the terms of the Agreement, and, by extension, the official acceptance by the Irish state of the current border. While the Agreement recognises that Irish citizenship is the birthright of those born in Northern Ireland, it makes clear that its acceptance is a matter of individual choice. In contrast, the 1956 Act continues to extend citizenship automatically in the majority of cases, thereby, in legal effect, conflicting with the agreed status of the border and the principle of consent\".\n\nIn 1986, the 1956 Act was amended by the \"Irish Nationality and Citizenship Act 1986\". This Act was primarily concerned with removing various gender discriminatory provisions from the 1956 legislation and thus provided for citizenship by registration for the wives and husbands of Irish citizens.\n\nThe Act also restricted the open-ended citizenship by descent granted by the 1956 Act by dating the citizenship of third, fourth and subsequent generations of Irish emigrants born abroad, from registration and not from birth. This limited the rights of fourth and subsequent generations to citizenship to those whose parents had been registered before their birth. The Act provided for a six-month transitional period during which the old rules would still apply. Such was the increase in volume of applications for registration from third, fourth and further generation Irish emigrants, the \"Irish Nationality and Citizenship Act 1994\" was enacted to deal with those individuals who applied for registration within the six-month period but who could not be registered in time.\n\nUp until the late 1990s, \"jus soli\", in the Republic, was maintained as a matter of statute law, the only people being constitutionally entitled to citizenship of the Irish state post-1937 were those who had been citizens of the Irish Free State before its dissolution. However, in 1998 as part of the new constitutional settlement brought about by the Belfast Agreement, the Nineteenth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland provided (among other things) that:\n\nThe introduction of this guarantee resulted in the enshrinement of \"jus soli\" as a constitutional right for the first time. In contrast the only people entitled to British citizenship as a result of the Belfast Agreement are people born in Northern Ireland to Irish citizens, British citizens and permanent residents.\n\nIf immigration was not on the political agenda in 1998, it did not take long to become so afterwards. Indeed, soon after the agreement, the already rising strength of the Irish economy reversed the historic pattern of emigration to one of immigration, a reversal which in turn resulted in a large number of foreign nationals claiming a right to remain in the state based on their Irish-born citizen children. They did so on the basis of a 1989 Supreme Court ruling \"Fajujonu v. Minister for Justice\" where the court prohibited the deportation of the foreign parents of an Irish citizen. In January 2003, the Supreme Court distinguished the earlier decision and ruled that it was constitutional for the Government to deport the parents of children who were Irish citizens. This latter decision would have been thought to put the matter to rest but concerns remained about the propriety of the (albeit indirect) deportation of Irish citizens and what was perceived as the overly generous provisions of Irish nationality law.\n\nIn March 2004, the government introduced the draft Bill for the Twenty-seventh Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland to remedy what the Minister for Justice, Michael McDowell, described as an \"abuse of citizenship\" whereby citizenship was \"conferred on persons with no tangible link to the nation or the State whether of parentage, upbringing or of long-term residence in the State\". The Amendment did not propose to change the wording of Articles 2 and 3 as introduced by the Nineteenth Amendment, but instead to insert a clause clawing back the power to determine the future acquisition and loss of Irish citizenship by statute, as previously exercised by parliament before the Nineteenth amendment. The government also cited concerns about the \"Chen case\", then before the European Court of Justice, in which a Chinese woman who had been living in Wales had gone to give birth in Northern Ireland on legal advice. Mrs. Chen then pursued a case against the British Home Secretary to prevent her deportation from the United Kingdom on the basis of her child's right as a citizen of the European Union (derived from the child's Irish citizenship) to reside in a member state of the Union. (Ultimately Mrs. Chen won her case, but this was not clear until \"after\" the result of the referendum.) Both the proposed amendment and the timing of the referendum were contentious but the result was decisively in favour of the proposal; 79% of those voting voted \"yes\", on a turnout of 59%.\n\nThe effect of the amendment was to prospectively restrict the constitutional right to citizenship by birth to those who are born on the island of Ireland to at least one parent who is (or is someone entitled to be) an Irish citizen. Those born on the island of Ireland before the coming into force of the amendment continue to have a constitutional right to citizenship. Moreover, \"jus soli\" primarily existed in legislation and it remained, after the referendum, for parliament to pass ordinary legislation that would modify it. This was in fact done by the \"Irish Nationality and Citizenship Act 2004\" (the effects of which are detailed above). It remains, however, a matter for the legislature and unrestricted \"jus soli\" could be re-established by ordinary legislation without a referendum.\n\nA person born on the island of Ireland on or after 1 January 2005:\nA person who is \"entitled\" to become an Irish citizen becomes an Irish citizen if:\nDual citizenship is permitted under Irish nationality law.\n\nIreland previously had a much less diluted application of \"jus soli\" (the right to citizenship of the country of birth) which still applies to anyone born on or before 31 December 2004.\nAlthough passed in 2001, the applicable law was deemed enacted on 2 December 1999 and provided that anyone born on the island of Ireland is:\n\nThe previous legislation was largely replaced by the 1999 changes, which were retroactive in effect. Before 2 December 1999, the distinction between Irish citizenship and entitlement to Irish citizenship rested on the place of birth. Under this regime, any person born on the island of Ireland was:\nThe provisions of the 1956 Act were, in terms of citizenship by birth, retroactive and replaced the provisions of the previous legislation, the \"Irish Nationality and Citizenship Act 1935\". Under that legislation, those born in Northern Ireland on or after 6 December 1922 did not have an entitlement to Irish citizenship by birth.\nCitizenship of the Irish Free State was determined under the 1922 constitution, as amended by the Constitution (Amendment No. 26) Act 1935.\n\nLike most countries, Ireland does not normally grant citizenship to the children of diplomats. This does not apply, however, when a diplomat parents a child with an Irish citizen, a British citizen or a permanent resident. In 2001, Ireland enacted a measure which allowed the children of diplomats to register as Irish citizens if they chose to do so; however, this was repealed three years later. The option to register remains for those born to diplomats before 2005.\n\nA person is an Irish citizen by descent if, at the time of his or her birth, at least one of his or her parents was an Irish citizen. Place of birth is not a deciding factor. In cases where at least one parent was an Irish citizen born in the island of Ireland or an Irish citizen resident abroad in the public service, citizenship is automatic and dates from birth. In all other cases citizenship is subject to registration in the Foreign Births Register.\n\nDue to legislative changes introduced in 1986, the Irish citizenship of those individuals requiring registration, dates from registration and not from birth, for citizenship registered on or after 1 January 1987. Citizenship by registration had previously been back-dated to birth.\n\nAnyone with an Irish citizen grandparent born on the island of Ireland is eligible for Irish citizenship. His or her parent would have automatically been an Irish citizen and their own citizenship can be secured by registering themselves in the Foreign Births Register. In contrast, those wishing to claim citizenship through an Irish citizen great-grandparent would be unable to do so unless their parents were placed into the Foreign Births Register. Their parents can transmit Irish citizenship to only those children born after they themselves were registered and not to any children born before registration.\n\nCitizenship acquired through descent may be maintained indefinitely so long as each generation ensures its registration before the birth of the next.\n\nAll adoptions performed or recognised under Irish law confer Irish citizenship on the adopted child (if not already an Irish citizen) if at least one of the adopters was an Irish citizen at the time of the adoption.\n\nFrom 30 November 2005 (three years after the 2001 Citizenship Act came into force), citizenship of the spouse of an Irish citizen must be acquired through the normal naturalisation process. The residence requirement is reduced from 5 to 3 years in this case, and the spouse must intend to continue to reside in the island of Ireland.\n\nPreviously, the law allowed for the spouses of most Irish citizens to acquire citizenship post-nuptially by registration without residence in the island of Ireland, or by naturalisation.\n\n\nThe naturalisation of a foreigner as an Irish citizen is a discretionary power held by the Irish Minister for Justice. Naturalisation is granted on a number of criteria including good character, residence in the state and intention to continue residing in the state.\n\nIn principle the residence requirement is three years if married to an Irish citizen, and five years otherwise. Time spent seeking asylum will not be counted. Nor will time spent as an illegal immigrant. Time spent studying in the state by a national of a non-EEA state (i.e. a state other than European Union Member States, Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein) will not count.\n\nThe Minister for Justice may waive the residency requirement for:\n\n\nSection 12 of the \"Irish Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1956\" allows the President, on advice of the Government, to \" ... grant Irish citizenship as a token of honour to a person, or the child or grandchild of a person who, in the opinion of the Government, has done signal honour or rendered distinguished service to the nation.\"\n\nAlthough known as \"honorary Irish citizenship\", this is in fact legally a full form of citizenship, with entitlement to an Irish passport and the other rights of Irish citizenship on the same basis as a naturalised Irish citizen. This has been awarded only a few times. The first twelve people to have had honorary Irish citizenship conferred on them are:\n\nPlans were made to grant honorary Irish citizenship to U.S. president John F. Kennedy during his visit to Ireland in 1963, but this was abandoned owing to legal difficulties in granting citizenship to a foreign head of state.\n\nAn Irish citizen may renounce his or her citizenship if he or she is:\nRenunciation is done by lodging a declaration with the Minister for Justice. If the person is not already a citizen of another country it is only effective when he or she becomes such. Irish citizenship cannot be lost by the operation of the law of another country, but foreign law may require a person to renounce Irish citizenship before acquiring foreign nationality (see Multiple citizenship#Multiple citizenship avoided).\n\nAn Irish citizen born on the island of Ireland who renounces Irish citizenship remains entitled to be an Irish citizen and may resume it upon declaration.\n\nWhile not positively stated in the Act, the possibility of renouncing Irish citizenship is provided to allow Irish citizens to be naturalised as citizens of foreign countries whose laws do not allow for multiple citizenship. The Minister of Justice \"may\" revoke the citizenship of a naturalised citizen if he or she voluntarily acquires the citizenship of another country (other than by marriage) after naturalisation but there is no provision requiring them to renounce any citizenship they previously held. Similarly, there no provision of Irish law requiring citizens to renounce their Irish citizenship before becoming citizens of other countries.\n\nA certificate of naturalisation may be revoked by the Minister for Justice. Once revoked the person to whom the certificate applies ceases to be an Irish citizen. Revocation is not automatic and is a discretionary power of the Minister. A certificate may be revoked if it was obtained by fraud or when the naturalised citizen to whom it applies:\n\n\nA notice of the revocation of a certificate of naturalisation must be published in \"Iris Oifigiúil\" (the official gazette of the Republic), but in the years of 2002 to 2012 (inclusive) no certificates of naturalisation were revoked.\n\nIreland allows its citizens to hold foreign citizenship in addition to their Irish citizenship. Some countries, however, do not permit multiple citizenship e.g. adults who acquired Irish and Japanese citizenship by birth must declare, to the latter's Ministry of Justice, before turning 22, which citizenship they want to keep.\n\nBecause Ireland forms part of the European Union, Irish citizens are also citizens of the European Union under European Union law and thus enjoy rights of free movement and have the right to vote in elections for the European Parliament. When in a non-EU country where there is no Irish embassy, Irish citizens have the right to get consular protection from the embassy of any other EU country present in that country. Irish citizens can live and work in any country within the EU as a result of the right of free movement and residence granted in Article 21 of the EU Treaty.\n\nFollowing the 2016 UK referendum on leaving the EU, which resulted in a vote to leave the European Union, there was a large increase in applications by British citizens for Irish passports, so that they can retain their rights as EU citizens after the UK's withdrawal from the EU. There were 25,207 applications for Irish passports from Britons in the 12 months before the referendum, and 64,400 in the 12 months after. Applications to other EU countries also increased by a large percentage, but were numerically much smaller.\n\nVisa requirements for Irish citizens are travel restrictions placed upon citizens of the Republic of Ireland by the authorities of other states. In 2018, Irish citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 185 countries and territories, jointly ranking the Irish passport 6th worldwide according to the Henley Passport Index.\n\nThe Irish nationality is ranked ninth in Nationality Index (QNI). This index differs from the Visa Restrictions Index, which focuses on external factors including travel freedom. The QNI considers, in addition, to travel freedom on internal factors such as peace & stability, economic strength, and human development as well. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15184181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15184181", "title": "James Church", "text": "James Church\n\nJames Church is the pseudonym of the author of five detective novels featuring a North Korean policeman, \"Inspector O\".\n\nChurch is identified on the back cover of his novels as \"a former Western intelligence officer with decades of experience in Asia\". He grew up in the San Fernando Valley in the United States, and was over sixty years old in 2009.\n\nHis \"Inspector O\" novels have been well-received, being noted by Asia specialists for offering \"an unusually nuanced and detailed portrait\" of North Korean society. A Korea Society panel praised the first book in the series for its realism and its ability to convey \"the suffocating atmosphere of a totalitarian state\". \"The Independent\" and the \"Washington Post\" compared the protagonist to Arkady Renko, the Soviet chief inspector in Martin Cruz Smith's \"Gorky Park\", for providing \"a vivid window into a mysterious country\".\n\nThe \"Inspector O\" series of books are published by Minotaur Books, an imprint of St. Martin's Press, in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10935462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10935462", "title": "Jean Lafleur", "text": "Jean Lafleur\n\nJean Lafleur is a Canadian businessman famous for his role in the Liberal Party of Canada sponsorship scandal.\n\nOn April 27, 2007, Lafleur returned to Canada from a two-year stay in Belize, where he was reported to have lived in an exclusive villa and enjoyed fine wines. Lafleur pleaded guilty to 28 fraud charges for his role in the scandal. He gave 76 false invoices to Charles Guite, the civil servant responsible for the sponsorship program in Public Works Department of the federal government in the 1990s.\n\nCounting time served, Lafleur was given a sentence of 42 months in prison, and ordered to pay back CDN $1.6 million to the federal government. His sentence was the highest handed out in the scandal, as he showed no remorse or co-operation in the investigation and trial. The crown prosecutor had sought a sentence of five years.\n"}
{"id": "31463165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31463165", "title": "John Charles Gilkey", "text": "John Charles Gilkey\n\nJohn Charles Gilkey (born 1968) is a prolific book and document thief who has stolen approximately US$200,000 worth of rare books and manuscripts. Gilkey used Modern Library's List of 100 Best Novels as a guide to what items he would steal. His motives for the thefts were personal: he saw an expansive library as a sign of being upper-class.\n\nGilkey used bad checks and stolen credit card numbers gained through his employment at Saks Fifth Avenue in San Francisco. He did not consider that he stole books; instead he would talk about \"doing business\" with the dealers from whom he stole items. Allison Hoover Bartlett, who wrote \"The Man Who Loved Books Too Much\" chronicling Gilkey's thefts and methods, stated that he felt he deserved the books. She also noted that Gilkey would tell her the details of a theft after the statute of limitations on that crime had expired.\n\nAfter a sting operation in 2003 orchestrated by Ken Sanders, a rare book dealer in Salt Lake City, Gilkey served 18 months in San Quentin beginning the following year.\n\nHe was arrested again on December 15, 2010, in San Francisco for stealing two antique maps. \n\nGilkey was the subject of an episode of the podcast \"Criminal\".\n\n"}
{"id": "50686210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50686210", "title": "Jorge Roca Suarez", "text": "Jorge Roca Suarez\n\nJorge Roca Suarez, also known as \"Techo de Paja\", is a Bolivian-American drug trafficker, best known for being the nephew and successor of notorious drug lord Roberto Suárez Goméz. He is currently serving a 30-year sentence in a California prison.\n\nBefore working with his uncle, Suarez ran a used-car business in Los Angeles. Suarez began to be involved in the drug trade by supplying cocaine to Los Pepes and laundering the drug money from Bolivia to the United States. At his prime, Suarez's net worth was estimated around $50–60 million and owned cattle ranches in Beni, a horse club, a supermarket chain and a luxury home in Santa Cruz de la Sierra. Suarez led massive drug operations in Bolivia and soon became the most wanted fugitive in Bolivia after the arrest of his uncle. While the family income in 1985 was $75,536.92, Suarez evaded tax incomes, which would have lowered the monetary value to $2,121,053.\n\nOn December 16, 1990, Jorge Suarez and his wife Cecilia was arrested after a DEA raid on Suarez's 19-room home in San Marino, California. In trial, Suarez was convicted in Los Angeles with over 30 different charges on narcotics and drug trafficking, with 27 over charges related to money laundering, bank fraud, tax evasion and illegal exortation of monetary currency, to which he faced a life sentence in prison. On December 1990, U.S. District Judge Stephen V. Wilson sentenced Suarez to 30 years in prison, while his sister, Beatriz Asunta \"Chunty\" Roca was sentenced to five years' imprisonment for money laundering. He gave his first interview to the press on May 22, 2016. In the interview, Suarez has received political and criminal law diplomas after taking courses in prison. His family fortune and property in Santa Cruz has been seized.\n\n"}
{"id": "42904516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42904516", "title": "Khatba", "text": "Khatba\n\nIn Egyptian culture, a khatba (Arabic: \"خاطب\") is a (traditionally female) professional mediator or broker of relationships, who is hired to help in finding a suitable marriage partner. Traditionally, a young person would make use of the services of a khatba when their family and friends were unable to find a suitable mate. Their services are especially necessary outside of Egypt's large cities, in more traditional Islamic areas, where male and female youths are not permitted to mingle freely. In these areas, khatbas are typically paid for their services with non-monetary goods or services, such as gifts or favors.\n\nIn popular media, khatbas are often represented as modestly-dressed middle-aged women, who carry photographs of marriageable youths to display to their clients. Although they are considered a stereotypical figure of the 1940s to mid-1960s, many modern Egyptian youth still employ khatbas in one form or another. As of 2013, less than one out of every hundred married Egyptian youth report meeting their partner through a khatba.\n\n"}
{"id": "38269480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38269480", "title": "Krishna Kumar Mitra", "text": "Krishna Kumar Mitra\n\nKrishna Kumar Mitra (1852-1936) was an Indian freedom fighter, journalist and leader of the Brahmo Samaj. He is remembered for his contributions to the Swadeshi movement through his journal \"Sanjibani\".\n\nKrishna Kumar was born in the village of Baghil in the Mymensingh district of Bengal in what is today Bangladesh in 1852. He was a Hindu Kayastha by birth and his father Guruprasad Mitra was a landholder who led an agitation against oppression by British indigo planters.\n\nKrishna Kumar was educated at Mymensingh's Hardinge Vernacular School and the Zilla School and obtained a bachelor's degree from the Scottish Church College in 1876. Subsequently, he studied law at the University of Calcutta for a while.\n\nDeeply influenced by his father who was a local Brahmo leader and his schoolteacher Girishchandra Ghosh, Krishna Kumar was inducted into the Brahmo faith in 1869 at the age of 17. He became a member of the Sadharan Brahmo Samaj and his journal \"Sanjibani\" became the Samaj's principal mouthpiece. He was elected president of the Sadharan Brahmo Samaj in 1918.\n\nMitra launched his Bengali journal \"Sanjibani\" in 1883. In 1886, he published a series of articles on the condition of the Indian workers in the tea plantations of Assam based on investigations by Dwaraknath Ganguly forcing the government to provide legal protection to tea garden workers. The second floor of Mitra's 6, College Square residence served as the office and press for the journal. His nephew Aurobindo Ghosh stayed here during 1909-1910 before escaping to Pondicherry.\n\nMitra taught at the AM Bose School and College (under the University of Calcutta) in Kolkata from 1879 to 1908 when he resigned from his post as superintendent and professor of history following the colonial government's threat to cancel the college's accreditation if he continued to be associated with the swadeshi movement.\n\nMitra joined Surendranath Banerjee's Indian Association in 1876 and became its joint secretary and Banerjee and Mitra traveled across northern India to popularise their political ideas. Mitra was also associated with the Indian National Congress since its inception and was part of its 'moderate' faction in Bengal. In 1890 he joined the indigo cultivators' agitation.\n\nOpposed to the partition of Bengal and influenced by colleagues like Ananda Mohan Bose and Kalishankar Shukul, Mitra joined the anti-Partition Swadeshi movement. He used his journal \"Sanjibani\" to rouse public opinion against the partition and on 13 July 1905 he openly called for the boycott of foreign goods through the journal. He attended the Bengal Provincial Conference at Barisal in 1906 where he condemned police atrocities against Swadeshi activists. The same year the Bengal government issued a circular banning the singing of \"Vande Mataram\" in any procession or public meeting. Mitra became president of the Anti-Circular Society that was formed to oppose the ban.\n\nFor his involvement in the Swadeshi movement, Mitra had to resign from his job as a professor of history and in 1908 was deported from Calcutta for two years by the British authorities.\n\nMitra married Lilabati Devi, the fourth daughter of Rajnarayan Basu in 1881. At their wedding, conducted in accordance with Brahmo rites, Narendranath Dutta sang two songs that were composed by Rabindranath Tagore for the occasion. Mitra was the maternal uncle of Aurobindo Ghosh and father in law of Sachindra Prasad Bose who unfurled the Calcutta Flag at the Parsi Bagan Square in Calcutta in 1906.\n\nKrishna Kumar Mitra was a dedicated social reformer opposed to idolatry, caste system and the social and religious prejudices in Bengal. He formed a Nari Raksa Samiti to work for the protection of women's rights. He was also an advocate of temperance who strongly criticised the government's decision to establish public drinking houses.\n\nBesides his journalistic pieces in the \"Sanjibani\", Mitra also authored several books including \"Mahammad-Charita\", \"Buddhadev-Charita\" and \"Bauddhadharmer Sangksipta Bibaran\". He also wrote an autobiography, \"Krishna Kumar Mitrer Atma Charit\".\n\nKrishna Kumar Mitra died in 1936. The Assamese writer Padmanath Gohain Baruah included a short biography of Mitra in his \"Nithikatha\" which he wrote as a textbook for school children to \"show respect\" to \"a selfless patriot and deeply religious man [who] Through Sanjibani, a paper which was run and edited by him, the bad luck of the tea garden coolies of Assam were slightly changed\".\n"}
{"id": "15471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15471", "title": "LGBT in Islam", "text": "LGBT in Islam\n\nLGBT in Islam is influenced by the religious, legal, social, and cultural history of the nations with a sizable Muslim population, along with specific passages in the Quran and hadith, statements attributed to the Islamic prophet Muhammad.\n\nThe Quran cites the story of the \"people of Lot\" destroyed by the wrath of God because they engaged in lustful carnal acts between men. Homosexual acts are forbidden in traditional Islamic jurisprudence and are liable to different punishments, including the death penalty, depending on the situation and legal school. However, homosexual relationships were generally tolerated in pre-modern Islamic societies, and historical record suggests that these laws were invoked infrequently, mainly in cases of rape or other \"exceptionally blatant infringement on public morals\". Homoerotic themes were cultivated in poetry and other literary genres written in major languages of the Muslim world from the eighth century into the modern era. The conceptions of homosexuality found in classical Islamic texts resemble the traditions of Graeco-Roman antiquity, rather than modern Western notions of sexual orientation. It was expected that many or most mature men would be sexually attracted to both women and male adolescents (variously defined), and men were expected to wish to play only an active role in homosexual intercourse once they reached adulthood.\n\nIn recent times, extreme prejudice persists, both socially and legally, in much of the Islamic world against people who engage in homosexual acts. In Afghanistan, Brunei, Iran, Mauritania, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, Somalia (in some southern regions), Sudan, United Arab Emirates and Yemen, homosexual activity carries the death penalty or prison sentences.\n\nIn other countries, such as Algeria, Bangladesh, Chad, Malaysia, Maldives, Pakistan, Qatar, Somalia and Syria, it is illegal. Same-sex sexual intercourse is legal in Albania, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burkina Faso, Djibouti, Guinea-Bissau, Iraq, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Kyrgyzstan, Mali, Niger, Tajikistan, Turkey, and most of Indonesia (except in Aceh and South Sumatra provinces, where bylaws against LGBT rights have been passed), as well as Northern Cyprus.\n\nHomosexual relations between females are legal in Kuwait, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, but homosexual acts between males are illegal.\n\nMost Muslim-majority countries and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) have opposed moves to advance LGBT rights at the United Nations, in the General Assembly or the UNHRC. In May 2016, a group of 51 Muslim states blocked 11 gay and transgender organizations from attending 2016 High Level Meeting on Ending AIDS. However, Albania, Guinea-Bissau and Sierra Leone have signed a UN Declaration supporting LGBT rights. Albania provides LGBT rights protections in the form of anti-discrimination laws, and discussions on legally recognizing same-sex marriage have been held in the country. Kosovo as well as the (internationally not recognized) Muslim-majority Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus also have anti-discrimination laws in place. There are also several groups within Islam around the world who support LGBT rights and LGBT Muslims.\n\nThe Quran contains several allusions to homosexual activity, which has prompted considerable exegetical and legal commentary over the centuries. The subject is most clearly addressed in the story of Sodom and Gomorrah (seven verses) after the city inhabitants demand sexual access to the messengers sent by God to the prophet Lot (or Lut). The Quranic narrative largely conforms to that found in Genesis. In one passage the Quran says that the men \"solicited his guests of him\" (), using an expression that parallels phrasing used to describe the attempted seduction of Joseph, and in multiple passages they are accused of \"coming with lust\" to men instead of women (or their wives). The Quran terms this an abomination () unprecedented in the history of the world:\n\nLater exegetical literature built on these verses as writers attempted to give their own views as to what went on; and there was general agreement among exegetes that the \"abomination\" alluded to by the Quranic passages was attempted sodomy (specifically anal intercourse) between men.\n\nThe sins of the people of Lut () subsequently became proverbial, and the Arabic words for the act of anal sex between men () and for a person who performs such acts () ironically both derive from his name (even though Lut wasn't the one demanding sex).\n\nOnly one passage in the Quran prescribes a strictly legal position. It is not restricted to homosexual behaviour, however, and deals more generally with \"zina\" (illicit sexual intercourse):\nMost exegetes hold that these verses refer to illicit heterosexual relationships, although a minority view attributed to the Mu'tazilite scholar Abu Muslim al-Isfahani interpreted them as referring to homosexual relations. The second verse was taken to refer to homosexual intercourse by the early Quran exegesis of Mujahid; it is also the interpretation mentioned in Tafsir Ibn Kathir and Jalalayn. \n\nSome Quranic verses describing the paradise refer to \"immortal boys\" (56:17, 76:19) or \"young men\" (52:24) who serve wine to the blessed. Although the \"tafsir\" literature does not interpret this as a homoerotic allusion, the connection was made in other literary genres, mostly humorously. For example, the Abbasid-era poet Abu Nuwas wrote:\n\nJurists of the Hanafi school took up the question seriously, considering, but ultimately rejecting the suggestion that homosexual pleasures were, like wine, forbidden in this world but enjoyed in the afterlife.\n\nThe hadith (sayings and actions attributed to Muhammad) show that homosexual behaviour was not unknown in seventh-century Arabia. However, given that the Quran did not specify the punishment of homosexual sodomy, Islamic jurists increasingly turned to several \"more explicit but poorly attested\" hadiths in an attempt to find guidance on appropriate punishment.\n\nWhile there are no reports relating to homosexuality in the best known hadith collections of Bukhari and Muslim, other canonical collections record a number of condemnations of the \"act of the people of Lot\" (male-to-male anal intercourse). For example, Abu `Isa Muhammad ibn `Isa at-Tirmidhi (compiling the Sunan al-Tirmidhi around C.E.884) wrote that Muhammad had indeed prescribed the death penalty for both the active and also the passive partner:\n\nIbn al-Jawzi (1114–1200) writing in the 12th century claimed that Muhammad had cursed \"sodomites\" in several hadith, and had recommended the death penalty for both the active and passive partners in homosexual acts.\n\nAl-Nuwayri (1272–1332) in his \"Nihaya\" reports that Muhammad is \"alleged to have said what he feared most for his community were the practices of the people of Lot (although he seems to have expressed the same idea in regard to wine and female seduction).\"\n\nOther hadiths seem to permit homoerotic feelings as long as they are not translated into action. One hadith acknowledges homoerotic temptation and warns against it: \"Do not gaze at the beardless youths, for verily they have eyes more tempting than the \"houris\"\" or \"... for verily they resemble the \"houris\"\". These beardless youths are also described as wearing sumptuous robes and having perfumed hair.\n\nIn addition, there is a number of \"purported (but mutually inconsistent) reports\" (\"athar\") of punishments of sodomy ordered by early caliphs. Abu Bakr apparently recommended toppling a wall on the culprit, or else burning him alive, while Ali bin Abi Talib is said to have ordered death by stoning for one sodomite and had another thrown head-first from the top of a minaret—according to Ibn Abbas, the latter punishment must be followed by stoning.\n\nThere are, however, fewer hadith mentioning homosexual behavior in women;\nbut punishment (if any) for lesbianism was not clarified.\n\nThe hadith collection of Bukhari (compiled in the 9th century from earlier oral traditions) includes a report regarding \"mukhannathun\", effeminate men who were granted access to secluded women's quarters and engaged in other non-normative gender behavior:\n\nIn hadiths attributed to Muhammad's wives, a \"mukhannath\" in question expressed his appreciation of a woman's body and described it for the benefit of another man. According to Everett Rowson, none of the sources state that Muhammad banished more than two \"mukhannathun\", and it is not clear to what extent the action was taken because of their breaking of gender rules in itself or because of the \"perceived damage to social institutions from their activities as matchmakers and their corresponding access to women\".\n\nAccording to traditional Islamic law, homosexual activity cannot occur in a legal manner because it takes place outside of marriage and between partners of the same sex.\n\nThe paucity of concrete prescriptions to be derived from hadith and the contradictory nature of information about the actions of early authorities resulted in lack of agreement among classical jurists as to how homosexual activity should be treated. Most legal schools treat homosexual intercourse with penetration similarly to unlawful heterosexual intercourse under the rubric of \"zina\", but there are differences of opinion with respect to methods of punishment. Some legal schools \"prescribed capital punishment for sodomy, but others opted only for a relatively mild discretionary punishment.\" The Hanbalites are the most severe among Sunni schools, insisting on capital punishment for anal sex in all cases, while the other schools generally restrict punishment to flagellation with or without banishment, unless the culprit is \"muhsan\" (Muslim free married adult), and Hanafis often suggest no physical punishment at all, leaving the choice to the judge's discretion. The founder of the Hanafi school Abu Hanifa refused to recognize the analogy between sodomy and \"zina\", although his two principal students disagreed with him on this point. The Hanafi scholar Abu Bakr Al-Jassas (d. 981 AD/370 AH) argued that the two hadiths on killing homosexuals \"are not reliable by any means and no legal punishment can be prescribed based on them\". Where capital punishment is prescribed and a particular method is recommended, the methods range from stoning (Hanbali, Maliki), to the sword (some Hanbalites and Shafi'ites), or leaving it to the court to choose between several methods, including throwing the culprit off a high building (Shi'ite).\n\nFor unclear reasons, the treatment of homosexuality in Twelver Shia jurisprudence is generally harsher than in Sunni fiqh, while Zaydi and Isma'ili Shia jurists took positions similar to the Sunnis. Where flogging is prescribed, there is a tendency for indulgence and some recommend that the prescribed penalty should not be applied in full, with Ibn Hazm reducing the number of strokes to 10. There was debate as to whether the active and passive partners in anal sex should be punished equally. Beyond penetrative anal sex, there was \"general agreement\" that \"other homosexual acts (including any between females) were lesser offenses, subject only to discretionary punishment.\" Some jurists viewed sexual intercourse as possible only for an individual who possesses a phallus; hence those definitions of sexual intercourse that rely on the entry of as little of the corona of the phallus into a partner's orifice. Since women do not possess a phallus and cannot have intercourse with one another, they are, in this interpretation, physically incapable of committing zinā.\n\nSince a \"hadd\" punishment for \"zina\" requires testimony from four witnesses to the actual act of penetration or a confession from the accused repeated four times, the legal criteria for the prescribed harsh punishments of homosexual acts were very difficult to fulfill. The debates of classical jurists are \"to a large extent theoretical, since homosexual relations have always been tolerated\" in pre-modern Islamic societies. While it is difficult to ascertain to what extent the legal sanctions were enforced in different times and places, historical record suggests that the laws were invoked mainly in cases of rape or other \"exceptionally blatant infringement on public morals\". Documented instances of prosecution for homosexual acts are rare, and those which followed legal procedure prescribed by Islamic law are even rarer.\n\nIn her 2016 book, Kecia Ali observes that \"contemporary scholars disagree sharply about the Qur'anic perspective on same-sex intimacy.\" One scholar represents the conventional perspective by arguing that the Qur'an \"is very explicit in its condemnation of homosexuality leaving scarcely any loophole for a theological accommodation of homosexuality in Islam.\" Another scholar argues that \"the Qur'an does not address homosexuality or homosexuals explicitly.\" Overall, Ali says that \"there is no one Muslim perspective on anything.\"\n\nMany Muslim scholars have followed a \"don't ask, don't tell\" policy in regards to homosexuality in Islam, by treating the subject with passivity.\n\nMohamed El-Moctar El-Shinqiti, director of the Islamic Center of South Plains in Texas, has argued that \"[even though] homosexuality is a grievous sin...[a] no legal punishment is stated in the Qur'an for homosexuality...[b] it is not reported that Prophet Muhammad has punished somebody for committing homosexuality...[c] there is no authentic hadith reported from the Prophet prescribing a punishment for the homosexuals...\" Classical hadith scholars such as Al-Bukhari, Yahya ibn Ma'in, Al-Nasa'i, Ibn Hazm, Al-Tirmidhi, and others have impugned the authenticity of hadith reporting these statements.\n\nFaisal Kutty, a professor of Islamic law at Indiana-based Valparaiso University Law School and Toronto-based Osgoode Hall Law School, commented on the contemporary same-sex marriage debate in a March 27, 2014, essay in the Huffington Post. He acknowledged that while Islamic law iterations prohibits pre- and extra-marital as well as same-sex sexual activity, it does not attempt to \"regulate feelings, emotions and urges, but only its translation into action that authorities had declared unlawful\". Kutty, who teaches comparative law and legal reasoning, also wrote that many Islamic scholars have \"even argued that homosexual tendencies themselves were not haram [prohibited] but had to be suppressed for the public good\". He claimed that this may not be \"what the LGBTQ community wants to hear\", but that, \"it reveals that even classical Islamic jurists struggled with this issue and had a more sophisticated attitude than many contemporary Muslims\". Kutty, who in the past wrote in support of allowing Islamic principles in dispute resolution, also noted that \"most Muslims have no problem extending full human rights to those—even Muslims—who live together 'in sin'\". He argued that it therefore seems hypocritical to deny fundamental rights to same-sex couples. Moreover, he concurred with Islamic legal scholar Mohamed Fadel in arguing that this is not about changing Islamic marriage (nikah), but about making \"sure that all citizens have access to the same kinds of public benefits\".\n\nIslamist journalist Muhammad Jalal Kishk found no prescribed punishment for homosexuality in Islamic law Several modern day scholars, including Scott Kugle, argue for a different interpretation of the Lot narrative focusing not on the sexual act but on the infidelity of the tribe and their rejection of Lot's Prophethood.\n\nIn a 2003 book Scott Siraj al-Haqq Kugle asserts \"that\nIslam does not address homosexuality.\" Therefore, he adds that we should be \"suspicious of statements like 'Islam says . . .' or 'The Shari'ah says . . .' as if these abstractions actually speak.\" Whatever is said about these sources \"are interpretations of them\" and interpretations are \"always by fallible people.\" Fugle reads the Qur'an as holding \"a positive assessment of diversity.\" With this reading, Islam can be described as \"a religion that positively assesses diversity in creation and in human societies.\"195 In keeping with this positive assessment of diversity, \"gay and lesbian Muslims\" view homosexuality as representing the \"natural diversity in sexuality in human societies.\"\n\nIn Scott Siraj al-Haqq Kugle's 2010 book on homosexuality in Islam, he addresses the teaching of sacred texts including the Qur'an about homosexuality. Kugle notes the Islamic \"tolerance for diversity of interpretation of sacred texts.\"\n\nKugle quotes the Qur'an: \"O people, we created you all from a male and a female And made you into different communities and tribes So that you would come to know one another Acknowledging that the most noble among you Is the one most aware of God.\" Qur'an 49:13 (Kugle's translation). Then Kugle continues, \"the implication of this verse is that no Muslim is better than another,\" even \"a gay or lesbian Muslim.\"\n\nRegarding interpreting the Qur'an, Kugle notes that \"it is always human beings who speak for the Qur'an\" and \"they always interpret its words\" and \"interpretation is always ambiguous and contested.\" Such ambiguity allows \"gay, lesbian, and transgender Muslims\" to interpret the Qur'an in \"sexuality-sensitive\" ways, ways they believe produce a \"fuller and better interpretation.\"\n\nRegarding the Qur'an's treatment of same-sex acts, Kugle says that \"where the Qur'an treats same-sex acts, it condemns them only so far as they are exploitive or violent.\" More generally, Kugle notes that the Qur'an refers to four different levels of personality. One level is \"genetic inheritance.\" The Qur'an refers to this level as one's \"physical stamp\" that \"determines one's temperamental nature\" including one's sexuality. One the basis of this reading of the Qur'an, Kugle asserts that homosexuality is \"caused by divine will,\" so \"homosexuals have no rational choice in their internal disposition to be attracted to same-sex mates.\"\n\nRegarding the story of Lot, Kugle observes that if the \"classical interpreters\" had seen \"sexual orientation as an integral aspect of human personality,\" they would have read the narrative of Lot and his tribe \"as addressing male rape of men in particular\" and not as \"addressing homosexuality in general.\"\n\nA critique of Kugle's approach, interpretations and conclusions was published in 2016 by Mobeen Vaid.\n\nIn a 2012 book, Aisha Geissinger writes that there are \"apparently irreconcilable Muslim standpoints on same-sex desires and acts,\" all of which claim \"interpretative authenticity.\" One of these standpoints results from \"queer-friendly\" interpretations of the Lot story and the Quran. The Lot story is interpreted as condemning \"rape and inhospitality rather than today's consensual same-sex relationships.\"\n\nAbdessamad Dialmy in his 2010 article, \"Sexuality and Islam,\" addressed \"sexual norms defined by the sacred texts (Koran and Sunna).\" He wrote that \"sexual standards in Islam are paradoxical.\" The sacred texts \"allow and actually are an enticement to the exercise of sexuality.\" However, they also \"discriminate . . . between heterosexuality and homosexuality.\" Islam's paradoxical standards result in \"the current back and forth swing of sexual practices between repression and openness.\" Dialmy sees a solution to this back and forth swing by a \"reinterpretation of repressive holy texts.\"\n\nSocieties in Islam have recognized \"both erotic attraction and sexual behavior between members of the same sex.\" However, their attitudes about them have often been contradictory: \"severe religious and legal sanctions\" against homosexual behavior and at the same time \"celebratory expressions\" of erotic attraction. Homoeroticism was idealized in the form of poetry or artistic declarations of love from one man to another. Accordingly, the Arabic language had an appreciable vocabulary of homoerotic terms, with a dozens of word just to describe types of male prostitutes. Schmitt (1992) identifies some twenty words in Arabic, Persian and Turkish to identify those who are penetrated. Other related Arabic words includes \"Mukhannathun\", \"ma'bûn\", \"halaqī\", \"baghghā\".\n\nThere is little evidence of homosexual practice in Islamic societies for the first century and a half of the Islamic era. Homoerotic poetry appears suddenly at the end of the 8th century CE, particularly in Baghdad in the work of Abu Nuwas (756-814), who became a master of all the contemporary genres of Arabic poetry. The famous author Jahiz tried to explain the abrupt change in attitudes toward homosexuality after the Abbasid Revolution by the arrival of the Abbasid army from Khurasan, who are said to have consoled themselves with male pages when they were forbidden to take their wives with them. The increased prosperity following the early conquests was accompanied by a \"corruption of morals\" in the two holy cities of Mecca and Medina, and it can be inferred that homosexual practice became more widespread during this time as a result of acculturation to foreign customs, such as the music and dance practiced by \"mukhannathun\", who were mostly foreign in origin. The Abbasid ruler Al-Amin (809-813) was said to have required slave women to be dressed in masculine clothing so he could be persuaded to have sex with them, and a broader fashion for \"ghulamiyyat\" (boy-like girls) is reflected in literature of the period.\n\nThe conceptions of homosexuality found in classical Islamic texts resemble the traditions of classical Greece and those of ancient Rome, rather than modern Western notions of sexual orientation. It was expected that many or most mature men would be sexually attracted to both women and adolescent boys (with different views about the appropriate age range for the latter), and men were expected to wish to play only an active role in homosexual intercourse once they reached adulthood. Preference for homosexual over heterosexual relations was regarded as a matter of personal taste rather than a marker of homosexual identity in a modern sense. While playing an active role in homosexual relations carried no social stigma beyond that of licentious behavior, seeking to play a passive role was considered both unnatural and shameful for a mature man. Following Greek precedents, the Islamic medical tradition regarded as pathological only this latter case, and showed no concern for other forms of homosexual behavior.\n\nDuring the early period, growth of a beard was considered to be the conventional age when an adolescent lost his homoerotic appeal, as evidenced by poetic protestations that the author still found his lover beautiful despite the growing beard. During later periods, the age of the stereotypical beloved became more ambiguous, and this prototype was often represented in Persian poetry by Turkish soldiers. This trend is illustrated by the story of Mahmud of Ghazni (971–1030), the ruler of the Ghaznavid Empire, and his cupbearer Malik Ayaz. Their relationship, which was sketchily attested in contemporary sources, became a staple of Persian literature comparable to the story of Layla and Majnun. Poets used it to illustrate the power of love, pointing to Mahmud as an example of a man who becomes \"a slave to his slave\", while Malik Ayaz served as \"the embodiment of the ideal beloved, and a model for purity in Sufi literature\".\n\nOther famous examples of homosexuality include the Aghlabid Emir Ibrahim II of Ifriqiya (ruled 875–902), who was said to have been surrounded by some sixty catamites, yet whom he was said to have treated in a most horrific manner. Caliph al-Mutasim in the 9th century and some of his successors were accused of homosexuality. The popular stories say that Cordoba, Abd al-Rahman III had executed a young man from León who was held as a hostage, because he had refused his advances during the Reconquista.\n\nMehmed the Conqueror, the Ottoman sultan living in the 15th century, European sources say \"who was known to have ambivalent sexual tastes, sent a eunuch to the house of Notaras, demanding that he supply his good-looking fourteen-year-old son for the Sultan's pleasure. When he refused, the Sultan instantly ordered the decapitation of Notaras, together with that of his son and his son-in-law; and their three heads … were placed on the banqueting table before him\". Another youth Mehmed found attractive, and who was presumably more accommodating, was Radu III the Fair, the brother of the famous Vlad the Impaler, \"Radu, a hostage in Istanbul whose good looks had caught the Sultan's fancy, and who was thus singled out to serve as one of his most favored pages.\" After the defeat of Vlad, Mehmed placed Radu on the throne of Wallachia as a vassal ruler. However, Turkish sources deny these stories.\n\nAccording to the \"Encyclopedia of Islam and the Muslim World\":\n\nWhatever the legal strictures on sexual activity, the positive expression of male homeoerotic sentiment in literature was accepted, and assiduously cultivated, from the late eighth century until modern times. First in Arabic, but later also in Persian, Turkish and Urdu, love poetry by men about boys more than competed with that about women, it overwhelmed it. Anecdotal literature reinforces this impression of general societal acceptance of the public celebration of male-male love (which hostile Western caricatures of Islamic societies in medieval and early modern times simply exaggerate).\n\nEuropean travellers remarked on the taste that Shah Abbas of Iran (1588-1629) had for wine and festivities, but also for attractive pages and cup-bearers. A painting by Riza Abbasi with homo-erotic qualities shows the ruler enjoying such delights.\n\n\"Homosexuality was a key symbolic issue throughout the Middle Ages in [Islamic] Iberia. As was customary everywhere until the nineteenth century, homosexuality was not viewed as a congenital disposition or 'identity'; the focus was on nonprocreative sexual practices, of which sodomy was the most controversial.\" For example, in \"al-Andalus homosexual pleasures were much indulged by the intellectual and political elite. Evidence includes the behavior of rulers . . . who kept male harems.\" Although early islamic writings such as the Quran expressed a mildly negative attitude towards homosexuality, laypersons usually apprehended the idea with indifference, if not admiration. Few literary works displayed hostility towards non-heterosexuality, apart from partisan statements and debates about types of love (which also occurred in heterosexual contexts). Khaled el-Rouayheb (2014) maintain that \"much if not most of the extant love poetry of the period [16th to 18th century] is pederastic in tone, portraying an adult male poet's passionate love for a teenage boy\".\n\nEl-Rouayheb suggest that even though religious scholars considered sodomy as an abhorrent sin, most of them did not genuinely believe that it was illicit to merely fall in love with a boy or expressing this love via poetry. In the secular society however, a male's desire to penetrate a desirable youth was seen as understandable, even if not lawful. On the other hand, men adopting the passive role were more subjected to stigma. The medical term \"ubnah\" qualified the pathological desire of a male to exclusively be on the receiving end of anal intercourse. Physician that theorized on \"ubnah\" includes Rhazes, who thought that it was correlated with small genitals and that a treatment was possible provided that the subject was deemed to be not too effeminate and the behavior not \"prolonged\". Dawud al-Antaki advanced that it could have been caused by an acidic substance embedded in the veins of the anus, causing itchiness and thus the need to seek relief.\n\nThe Ottoman Caliphate \"ruled the Sunni Muslim world for centuries.\" It was \"much more open-minded regarding the homosexual issue\" than is the current Turkish government although it \"claims to emulate\" the Ottoman Caliphate. \"The Ottoman Empire had an extensive literature of homosexual romance, and an accepted social category of transvestites.\" It could be argued that the Ottoman sultans \"were social liberals compared with the contemporary Islamists of Turkey, let alone the Arab World.\"\n\nDuring the Ottoman Empire, homosexuality was decriminalized in 1858, as part of wider reforms during the Tanzimat.\n\nBefore the modern era, Islamic nations were not so opposed to same-sex relations. For example, a ruler in Persia in the 11th century advised his son \"to alternate his partners seasonally: young men in the summer and women in the winter.\" Many eighth-century love poems by Abu Nuwas in Baghdad and by other Persian and Urdu poets seem to have been \"addressed to boys.\" In mystic writings of the medieval era, such as Sufi texts, it is \"unclear whether the beloved being addressed is a teenage boy or God.\" European chroniclers censured \"the indulgent attitudes to gay sex in the Caliphs' courts.\"\n\nThe modern rejection and criminalization of \"homosexuality in Islam gained momentum through the exogenous effects of European colonialism. . . . \" European thought at the time treated homosexuality as \"against nature.\"\n\nScott Siraj al-Haqq Kugle has argued that, while \"Muslims commemorate the early days of Islam when they were oppressed as a marginalized few,\" many of them now forget their history and fail to protect \"Muslims who are gay, transgender and lesbian.\"\n\nWhile friendship between men and boys is often described in sexual ways in classical Islamic literature, Khaled El-Rouayheb and Oliver Leaman have argued that it would be misleading to conclude from this that homosexuality was widespread in practice. Such literature tended to use transgressive motifs alluding to what is forbidden, in particular homosexuality and wine. Greek homoerotic motifs may have accurately described practices in ancient Greece, but in their Islamic adaptations they tended to play a satirical or metaphorical rather than descriptive role. At the same time, many miniatures, especially from Ottoman Turkey, contain explicit depictions of pederasty, suggesting that the practice enjoyed a certain degree of popularity. A number of pre-modern texts discuss the possibility of sexual exploitation faced by young boys in educational institutions and warn teachers to take precautions against it.\n\nIn modern times, despite the formal disapproval of religious authority, the segregation of women in Muslim societies and the strong emphasis on male virility leads adolescent males and unmarried young men to seek sexual outlets with boys younger than themselves—in one study in Morocco, with boys in the age-range 7 to 13. Men have sex with other males so long as they are the penetrators and their partners are boys, or in some cases effeminate men.\n\n\"Liwat\" can therefore be regarded as \"temptation\", and anal intercourse is not seen as repulsively unnatural so much as dangerously attractive. They believe \"one has to avoid getting buggered precisely in order not to acquire a taste for it and thus become addicted.\" Not all sodomy is homosexual: one Moroccan sociologist, in a study of sex education in his native country, notes that for many young men heterosexual sodomy is considered better than vaginal penetration, and female prostitutes likewise report the demand for anal penetration from their (male) clients.\n\nIt is not so much the penetration as the enjoyment that is considered bad. Deep shame attaches to the passive partner: \"for this reason men stop getting laid at the age of 15 or 16 and 'forget' that they ever allowed it earlier.\" Similar sexual sociologies are reported for other Muslim societies from North Africa to Pakistan and the Far East. In Afghanistan in 2009, the British Army was forced to commission a report into the sexuality of the local men after British soldiers reported the discomfort at witnessing adult males involved in sexual relations with boys. The report stated that though illegal, there was a tradition of such relationships in the country, known as \"bache bazi\" or \"boy play\", and that it was especially strong around North Afghanistan.\n\nAccording to the International Lesbian and Gay Association (ILGA) seven countries still retain capital punishment for homosexual behavior: Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Iran, Afghanistan, Mauritania, Sudan, and northern Nigeria. In United Arab Emirates it is a capital offense. In Qatar, Algeria, Uzbekistan, and the Maldives, homosexuality is punished with time in prison or a fine. This has led to controversy regarding Qatar, which is due to stage the 2022 FIFA World Cup. Human rights groups have questioned the awarding in 2010 of the right to host the competition, due to the possibility that gay football fans may be jailed. In response, Sepp Blatter, head of FIFA, joked that they would have to \"refrain from sexual activity\" while in Qatar. He later withdrew the remarks after condemnation from rights groups.\n\nSame-sex sexual activity is illegal in Chad since August 1, 2017 under a new penal code. Homosexuality between consenting adults had never previously been criminalized prior to this law.\n\nIn Muslim-majority countries, open gay life rarely exists, but \"the closet is spacious.\" Even countries with strict laws against homosexual people \"have flourishing gay scenes at all levels of society.\"\n\nIn Bahrain, police in Bahrain arrested scores of men in February 2011 at a \"gay party\".\n\nIn Egypt, openly gay men have been prosecuted under general public morality laws. (See Cairo 52.) \"Sexual relations between consenting adult persons of the same sex in private are not prohibited as such. However, the Law on the Combating of Prostitution, and the law against debauchery have been used to imprison gay men in recent years.\"\n\nIslamic state has decreed capital punishment for gays. They have executed more than two dozen men and women for suspected homosexual activity, including several thrown off the top of buildings in highly publicized executions.\n\nIn India, which has the third-largest Muslim population in the world, and where Muslims form a large minority, the largest Islamic seminary (Darul Uloom Deoband) has vehemently opposed recent government moves to abrogate and liberalize laws from the British Raj era that banned homosexuality. As of September 2018, homosexuality is no longer a criminal act in India, and most of the religious groups withdrew their opposing claims against it in the Supreme Court. \n\nIn Iraq, homosexuality is allowed by the government, but terrorist groups often carry out illegal executions of gay people. Saddam Hussein was \"unbothered by sexual mores.\" Ali Hili reports that \"since the 2003 invasion more than 700 people have been killed because of their sexuality.\" He calls Iraq the \"most dangerous place in the world for sexual minorities.\"\n\nIn Jordan, where homosexuality is legal, \"gay hangouts have been raided or closed on bogus charges, such as serving alcohol illegally.\"\n\nIn Pakistan, its law is a mixture of both Anglo-Saxon colonial law as well as Islamic law, both which proscribe criminal penalties for same-sex sexual acts. The Pakistan Penal Code of 1860, originally developed under colonialism, punishes sodomy with a possible prison sentence and has other provisions that impact the human rights of LGBT Pakistanis, under the guise of protecting public morality and order. Yet, the more likely situation for gay and bisexual men is sporadic police blackmail, harassment, fines, and jail sentences.\n\nIn Saudi Arabia, the maximum punishment for homosexual acts is public execution by beheading. However the government usually uses lesser punishments—for example, fines, time in prison, and whipping—as alternatives.\n\nIn Turkey, homosexuality is legal, but \"official censure can be fierce\". A former interior minister, İdris Naim Şahin, called homosexuality an example of \"dishonour, immorality and inhuman situations\".\n\nIn 2016, the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association (ILGA) released its most recent \"State Sponsored Homophobia Report\". The report found that thirteen countries (or parts of them) impose the death penalty for \"Same-sex sexual acts\". These countries comprise 6% of the countries in the United Nations. Of these thirteen countries, four are in Africa: Sudan, Nigeria, Somalia, and Mauritania. Nine are in Asia: Iran, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Qatar, UAE, Iraq, and Daesh (ISIS/ISIL) territories. None are in the Americas, Europe, or Oceania. The full report with details about countries imposing the death penalty can be read at \"State Sponsored Homophobia 2016\". This report omits that Brunei also punishes homosexuals with death and that Brunei tolerates anti-gay vigilante attacks.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire (predecessor of Turkey) decriminalized homosexuality in 1858. In Turkey, where 99.8% of the population is Muslim, homosexuality has never been criminalized since the day it was founded in 1923. And LGBT people also have the right to seek asylum in Turkey under the Geneva Convention since 1951.\n\nSame-sex sexual intercourse is legal in Albania, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burkina Faso, Djibouti, Guinea-Bissau, Iraq (except those parts controlled by the Islamic State), Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Kyrgyzstan, Mali, Niger, Tajikistan, Turkey, West Bank (State of Palestine), most of Indonesia, and in Northern Cyprus. In Albania and Turkey, there have been discussions about legalizing same-sex marriage. Albania, Northern Cyprus and Kosovo also protect LGBT people with anti-discrimination laws.\n\nIn 2016, the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association (ILGA) released its most recent State Sponsored Homophobia Report. The report found that \"same-sex sexual acts\" are legal in 121 countries. These countries comprise 63% of the countries in the United Nations. Of these 121 countries, twenty-one are in Africa, nineteen are in Asia, twenty-four are in the Americas, forty-eight are in Europe, and seven are in Oceania. The full report with the names of countries in which same-sex acts are legal or illegal can be read at \"State Sponsored Homophobia 2016\".\n\nIn 2007 there was a gay party in the Moroccan town of al-Qasr al-Kabir. Rumours spread that this was a gay marriage and more than 600 people took to the streets, condemning the alleged event and protesting against leniency towards homosexuals. Several persons who attended the party were detained and eventually six Moroccan men were sentenced to between four and ten months in prison for \"homosexuality\".\n\nIn France there was an Islamic same-sex marriage on February 18, 2012. In Paris in November 2012 a room in a Buddhist prayer hall was used by gay Muslims and called a \"gay-friendly mosque\", and a French Islamic website is supporting religious same-sex marriage.\n\nThe first American Muslim in the United States Congress, Keith Ellison (D-MN) said in 2010 that all discrimination against LGBT people is wrong. He further expressed support for gay marriage stating:\n\nI believe that the right to marry someone who you please is so fundamental it should not be subject to popular approval any more than we should vote on whether blacks should be allowed to sit in the front of the bus.\n\nIn 2014 eight men were jailed for three years by a Cairo court after the circulation of a video of them allegedly taking part in a private wedding ceremony between two men on a boat on the Nile.\n\nSeveral violent attacks against LGBT people in the West have taken place\n\nSince February 2017, over 100 male residents of the Chechen Republic (part of the Russian Federation) assumed to be gay or bisexual have been rounded up, detained and tortured by authorities on account of their sexual orientation. These crackdowns have been described as part of a systemic anti-LGBT \"purge\" in the region. The men are held and allegedly tortured in concentration camps.\n\nAllegations were initially reported in \"Novaya Gazeta\" on April 1, 2017 a Russian-language opposition newspaper, which reported that over 100 men have allegedly been detained and tortured and at least three people have died in an extrajudicial killing. The paper, citing its sources in the Chechen special services, called the wave of detentions a \"prophylactic sweep.\" The journalist who first reported on the subject has gone into hiding, There have been calls for reprisals for journalists reporting on the situation.\n\nIn response, the Russian LGBT Network is attempting to assist those who are threatened to evacuate from Chechnya. Human rights groups and foreign governments have called upon Russia and Chechnya to put an end to the internments.\n\nIn 2011, the UN Human Rights Council passed its first resolution recognizing LGBT rights, which was followed up with a report from the UN Human Rights Commission documenting violations of the rights of LGBT people. The two world maps of the percentage of Muslims per country and the countries that support LGBT rights at the UN give an impression of the attitude towards homosexuality on the part of many Muslim-majority governments.\nThe Muslim community as a whole, worldwide, has become polarized on the subject of homosexuality. Some Muslims say that \"no good Muslim can be gay,\" and \"traditional schools of Islamic law consider homosexuality a grave sin.\" At the opposite pole, \"some Muslims . . . are welcoming what they see as an opening within their communities to address anti-gay attitudes.\" Especially, it is \"young Muslims\" who are \"increasingly speaking out in support of gay rights\".\n\nIn 2013, the Pew Research Center conducted a study on the global acceptance of homosexuality and found a widespread rejection of homosexuality in many nations that are predominantly Muslim. In some countries, views were becoming more conservative among younger people.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Al-Fatiha Foundation was an organization which tried to advance the cause of gay, lesbian, and transgender Muslims. It was founded in 1998 by Faisal Alam, a Pakistani American, and was registered as a nonprofit organization in the United States. The organization was an offshoot of an internet listserve that brought together many gay, lesbian and questioning Muslims from various countries. The Foundation accepted and considered homosexuality as natural, either regarding Qur'anic verses as obsolete in the context of modern society, or stating that the Qu'ran speaks out against homosexual lust and is silent on homosexual love. After the Alam stepped down, subsequent leaders failed to sustain the organization and it began a process of legal dissolution in 2011.\n\nIn 2001, Al-Muhajiroun, a banned and now defunct international organization who sought the establishment of a global Islamic caliphate, issued a fatwa declaring that all members of Al-Fatiha were \"murtadd\", or apostates, and condemning them to death. Because of the threat and coming from conservative societies, many members of the foundation's site still prefer to be anonymous so as to protect their identity while continuing a tradition of secrecy. Al-Fatiha has fourteen chapters in the United States, as well as offices in England, Canada, Spain, Turkey, and South Africa. In addition, Imaan, a social support group for Muslim LGBT people and their families, exists in the UK. Both of these groups were founded by gay Pakistani activists.\n\nThe coming together of \"human rights discourses and sexual orientation struggles\" has resulted in an abundance of \"social movements and organizations concerned with gender and sexual minority oppression and discrimination.\"\n\nIn November 2012, a prayer room was set up in Paris by gay Islamic scholar and founder of the group 'Homosexual Muslims of France' Ludovic-Mohamed Zahed. It was described by the press as the first gay-friendly mosque in Europe. The reaction from the rest of the Muslim community in France has been mixed. The opening has been condemned by the Grand Mosque of Paris.\n\nThere are also a number of Islamic ex-gay (i.e. people claiming to have experienced a basic change in sexual orientation from exclusive homosexuality to exclusive heterosexuality) groups aimed at attempting to guide homosexuals towards heterosexuality. A large body of research and global scientific consensus indicates that being gay, lesbian, or bisexual is compatible with normal mental health and social adjustment. Because of this, major mental health professional organizations discourage and caution individuals against attempting to change their sexual orientation to heterosexual, and warn that attempting to do so can be harmful. People who have gone through conversion therapy face 8.9 times the rates of suicide ideation, face depression at 5.9 times the rate of their peers and are three times more likely to use illegal drugs compared to those who did not go through the therapy.\n\nNur Wahrsame has been an advocate for LGBTI Muslims. He founded Marhaba, a support group for queer Muslims in Melbourne, Australia. In May 2016, Wahrsage revealed that he is homosexual in an interview on SBS2's The Feed, being the first openly gay Imam in Australia.\n\nThe Muslim Alliance for Sexual and Gender Diversity (MASGD) in the United States began on January 23, 2013. It supports, empowers and connects LGBTQ Muslims. It aims \"to increase the acceptance of gender and sexual diversity within Muslim communities.\" On June 20, 2016, an interview with Mirna Haidar (a member of the MASGD's steering committee) was published in The Washington Post. She described the MASGD as supporting \"LGBT Muslims who want or need to embrace both their sexual and religious identities.\" Haidar said that the support the MASGD provides is needed because a person who is \"Muslim and queer \" faces \"two different systems of oppression\": Islamophobia and homophobia.\n\nMuslims for Progressive Values, based in the United States and in Malaysia, is \"a faith-based, grassroots, human rights organization that embodies and advocates for the traditional Qur'anic values of social justice and equality for all, for the 21st Century.\" MPV has recorded \"a lecture series that seeks to dismantle the religious justification for homophobia in Muslim communities.\" The lectures can be viewed at MPV Lecture Series.\n\nThe Safra Project for women is based in the UK. It supports and works on issues relating to prejudice LGBTQ Muslim women. It was founded in October 2001 by Muslim LBT women. The Safra Project's \"ethos is one of inclusiveness and diversity.\"\n\nSalaam is the first gay Muslim group in Canada and second in the world. Salaam was found in 1993 by El-Farouk Khaki, who organized the Salaam/Al-Fateha International Conference in 2003.\n\nSarajevski Otvoreni Centar (Sarajevo Open Centre), abbreviated SOC, is an independent feminist civil society organization and advocacy group which campaigns for lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans and intersex (LGBTI) people and women rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The organization also gives asylum and psychological support to victims of discrimination and violence.\n\nThe \"Pink Report\" is an annual report made by the organization on the state of the Human Rights of LGBTI People in the country and is supported by the Norwegian Embassy.\n\nIn May 2009, the Toronto Unity Mosque / el-Tawhid Juma Circle was founded by Laury Silvers, a University of Toronto religious studies scholar, alongside Muslim gay-rights activists El-Farouk Khaki and Troy Jackson. Unity Mosque/ETJC is a gender-equal, LGBT+ affirming, mosque.\n\nThe religious conflicts and inner turmoil with which Islamic homosexuals struggle have been addressed in various media.\n\nThe goals of Channel 4 include (1) stimulate public debate on contemporary issues, (2) reflect cultural\ndiversity of the UK, and (3) champion alternative points of view. One of Channel 4's productions is a documentary on Gay Muslims, broadcast in the UK in January 2006. It can be viewed on YouTube in six parts: Gay Muslims - UK - Part 1 of 6, Gay Muslims - UK - Part 2 of 6, Gay Muslims - UK - Part 3 of 6, Gay Muslims - UK - Part 4 of 6, Gay Muslims - UK - Part 5 of 6, Gay Muslims - UK - Part 6 of 6\n\nThe Unity Productions Foundation (UPF) works for \"Peace through the Media\" by producing films \"to break down stereotypes and enhance understanding\" of Muslims and Islam. UPF films have been seen by approximated 150 million people. UPF has \"partnered with prominent Jewish, Muslim, Christian and interfaith groups to run dialogues nationwide.\" Videos of non-Muslims speaking up for Muslims as \"fellow Americans\" are online at Non-Muslims Speak Up.\n\nThe Muslim Debate Initiative (MDI) made up of Muslims \"with experience in public speaking, apologetics, polemics, research and community work.\" One of its aims is \"to support, encourage and promote debate that contrasts Islam against other intellectual and political discourses for the purpose of the pursuit of truth, intellectual scrutiny with respect, and the clarifying accurate understandings of other worldviews between people of different cultures, beliefs and political persuasions.\" One of its broadcasts was on BBC3's \"Free Speech\" program on March 25, 2014. The debate was between Maajid Nawaz and Abdullah al Andalusi on the question \"Can you be Gay and Muslim?\" It is on YouTube at \"Gay and Muslim?\".\n\nIn 2007, the documentary film \"A Jihad for Love\" was released. It was produced by Sandi Simcha DuBowski and directed by Parvez Sharma. As of 2016 the film has been shown in 49 nations to four million plus viewers.\n\nSee two parts of the film at \"A Jihad for Love Part 1\" and \"A Jihad for Love Part 2\". Also a video about \"A Jihad for Love\" is at \"About a Jihad for Love\".\n\nIn 2015, the documentary film \"A Sinner in Mecca\" was released. It was directed by Parvez Sharma. The film chronicles Sharma's Hajj pilgrimage to Mecca, Saudi Arabia as an openly gay Muslim. The film premiered at the 2015 Hot Docs Canadian International Documentary Festival to great critical acclaim. The film opened in theaters in the US on September 4, 2015 and is a New York Times Critics' Pick.\n\nMy.Kali is a Jordanian pan-Arab LGBT publication published in English in Amman, Jordan. It started publication online in 2008. It is named after openly gay model Khalid, making major headlines, as it is the 1st LGBT publication to ever exist in the MENA region. The magazine regularly features non-LGBT artists on their covers to promote acceptance among other communities and was the first publication to give many underground and regional artists their first covers like Yasmine Hamdan, both lead singer and violinist of band Mashrou' Leila, Hamed Sinno and Haig Papazian, Alaa Wardi, Zahed Sultan and many more.\n\nThis section contains material from books and articles supporting LGBT Muslims.\n\nIn Chapter Eight of the 2003 book, \"Progressive Muslims: On Justice, Gender, and Pluralism\", Scott Siraj al-Haqq Kugle asserts \"that Islam does not address homosexuality.\" In Fugle's reading, the Qur'an holds \"a positive assessment of diversity.\" It \"respects diversity in physical appearance, constitution, stature, and color of human beings as a natural consequence of Divine wisdom in creation.\" Therefore, Islam can be described as \"a religion that positively assesses diversity in creation and in human societies.\" Furthermore, in Kugle's reading, the Qur'an \"implies that some people are different in their sexual desires than others.\" Thus, homosexuality can be seen as part of the \"natural diversity in sexuality in human societies.\" This is the way \"gay and lesbian Muslims\" view their homosexuality.\n\nIn addition to the Qur'an, Kugle refers to the benediction of Imam Al-Ghazali (the 11th-century Muslim theologian) which says. \"praise be to God, the marvels of whose creation are not subject to the arrows of accident.\" For Kugle, this benediction implies that \"if sexuality is inherent in a person's personality, then sexual diversity is a part of creation, which is never accidental but is always marvelous.\" Kugle also refers to \"a rich archive of same-sex sexual desires and expressions, written by or reported about respected members of society: literati, educated elites, and religious scholars.\" Given these writings, Kugle concludes that \"one might consider Islamic societies (like classical Greece) to provide a vivid illustration of a 'homosexual-friendly' environment.\" This evoked from \"medieval and early modern Christian Europeans\" accusations that Muslim were \"engaging openly in same-sex practices.\"\n\nKugle goes a step further in his argument and asserts that \"if some Muslims find it necessary to deny that sexual diversity is part of the natural created world, then the burden of proof rests on their shoulders to illustrate their denial from the Qur'anic discourse itself.\"\n\nIn 2010, an anthology \"Islam and Homosexuality\" was published. In the Forward, Parvez Sharma sounded a pessimistic note about the future: \"In my lifetime I do not see Islam drafting a uniform edict that homosexuality is permissible.\" Following is material from two chapters dealing with the present.\n\nRusmir Musić in a chapter \"Queer Visions of Islam\" said that \"Queer Muslims struggle daily to reconcile their sexuality and their faith.\" Musić began to study in college \"whether or not my love for somebody of the same gender disgusts God and whether it will propel me to hell. The answer, for me, is an unequivocal \"no\". Furthermore, Musić wrote, \"my research and reflection helped me to imagine my sexuality as a gift from a loving, not hateful, God.\"\n\nMarhuq Fatima Khan in a chapter \"Queer, American, and Muslim: Cultivating Identities and Communities of Affirmation,\" says that \"Queer Muslims employ a few narratives to enable them to reconcile their religious and sexual identities.\" They \"fall into three broad categories: (1) God Is Merciful; (2) That Is Just Who I Am; and (3) It's Not Just Islam.\"\n\nKecia Ali in her 2016 book \"Sexual Ethics and Islam\" says that p xvi \"there is no one Muslim perspective on anything.\" Regarding the Qur'an, Ali says that modern scholars disagree about what it says about \"same-sex intimacy.\" Some scholars argue that \"the Qur'an does not address homosexuality or homosexuals explicitly.\"\n\nRegarding homosexuality, Ali, says that the belief that \"exclusively homosexual desire is innate in some individuals\" has been adopted \"even among some relatively conservative Western Muslim thinkers.\"100 Homosexual Muslims believe their homosexuality to be innate and view \"their sexual orientation as God-given and immutable.\"123 She observes that \"queer and trans people are sometimes treated as defective or deviant,\" and she adds that it is \"vital not to assume that variation implies imperfection or disability.\"\n\nRegarding \"medieval Muslim culture,\" Ali says that \"male desire to penetrate desirable youth . . . was perfectly normal.\" Even if same-sex relations were not lawful, there was \"an unwillingness to seek out and condemn instances of same-sex activity, but rather to let them pass by . . . unpunished.\"\n\nIn an article \"Same-sex Sexual Activity and Lesbian and Bisexual Women\" Ali elaborates on homosexuality as an aspect of medieval Muslim culture. She says that \"same-sex sexual expression has been a more or less recognized aspect of Muslim societies for many centuries.\" There are many explicit discussions of \"same-sex sexual activity\" in medieval Arabic literature.\n\nIn Islam, the term mukhannathun is used to describe gender-variant people, usually male-to-female transgender. Neither this term nor the equivalent for \"eunuch\" occurs in the Quran, but the term does appear in the Hadith, the sayings of Muhammad, which have a secondary status to the central text. Moreover, within Islam, there is a tradition on the elaboration and refinement of extended religious doctrines through scholarship. This doctrine contains a passage by the scholar and hadith collector An-Nawawi:\n\nWhile Iran has outlawed homosexuality, Iranian Shi'a thinkers such as Ayatollah Khomeini have allowed for transgender people to change their sex so that they can enter heterosexual relationships. This position has been confirmed by the Supreme Leader of Iran, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and is also supported by many other Iranian clerics.\n\nIran carries out more sex change operations than any other nation in the world except for Thailand. It is regarded as a cure for homosexuality, which is punishable by death under Iranian law. The government even provides up to half the cost for those needing financial assistance and a sex change is recognized on the birth certificate.\n\nOn the 26th of June 2016, clerics affiliated to the Pakistan-based organization Tanzeem Ittehad-i-Ummat issued a fatwa on transgender people where a transwoman (born male) with \"visible signs of being a woman\" are allowed to marry a man, and a transman (born female) with \"visible signs of being a man\" are allowed to marry a woman. Muslim ritual funerals also apply. Depriving transgender people of their inheritance, humiliating, insulting or teasing them were also declared haraam.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42157951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42157951", "title": "La Marcha Por La Humanidad", "text": "La Marcha Por La Humanidad\n\nLa Marcha Por La Humanidad (also known as the Chicano Mural at UH) is a mural housed at the University Center on the campus of the University of Houston. In 1973 artists Mario Gonzales and Ruben Reyna, both Vietnam veterans, created and painted the mural on behalf of the university's chapter of the Mexican American Youth Organization. The mural depicts the political angst of the Chicano Movement, featuring Uncle Sam with a skull in place of a head, an effect popular in twentieth-century Mexican and Chicano art. It is twelve by sixty five feet.\n\n\"The left side of the mural features images of Aztecs, farmers (campesinos) and images of Mexico's history, painted by Reyna, -Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz, Father Miguel Hidalgo, Benito Juarez, Emiliano Zapata, Pancho Villa and the power of the Catholic Church. On the right side of the mural, Gonzales painted images of historical figures of the 60s and 70s—Cesar Chavez, Alicia Escalante, Reies Lopez Tijerina, and a sea of people demanding change,\" explains a KUHF article. The article continues with an explanation by Ruben Reyna, one of the artists. \"'I painted the left section of the mural and Mario painted the right and we met in the middle, which is the future of the Chicano,' Reyna said. 'We painted the past, the history of Mexico, our beginnings from the days of the Spaniard conquest of the Aztecas. We brought it to the far right (of the mural) and identified some key figures of the Chicano movement.'\" In one portion of the mural, lady justice is depicted holding an unbalanced scale,defining the inequality of justice in America. However, the central portion of the mural is perhaps the most iconographic. Gonzalez states that the young man in the middle of the mural has reached the step stones of success, where he is confronted by his conscience, which is \"Tlatelolco, Tenochtitlan\" and all the history of his ancestors. He is also embraced by his government, which is depicted as the skeletal figure in Uncle Sam garb. The young man is faced with a choice of what to make of his life, his education and accomplishments. Will he think of just himself or help make a change in society.\nIn conclusion, the theme is for all humans regardless of race or color, should attempt to \nchange the world to create a more unified and humane society.\nAn invitation is extended to all the students, who are the force\nthat can make a change in the world. They are encouraged to: \"Don’t forget their roots, work for the well being and for the prosperity of not just the Hispanics but of the entire world.\" \n\nIn 1995 the University Center Policy Board proposed the removal of the mural, as part of an effort to change the theme of the University Center. Hispanic Student Association President Russell Contreras spearheaded efforts to encourage Chicano students to attend a policy board meeting in favor of preserving the mural. He mentions that these were not the first efforts to have the mural removed. A coalition of students wrote a letter to the editor of the campus newspaper, the Daily Cougar. Many administrators were in favor of moving the mural, which is painted on a scroll and attached to the wall. In the end, student protests prevailed and the mural was not moved.\n\nIn December 2011, while a major renovation to the University Center was about to begin, the University of Houston refused to give written assurances to activists and alumna indicating that the mural would be preserved and displayed in the remodeled University Center. Instead, the university offered the possibility of digitizing an image of the piece. Contributing to alumna and student concerns was the fact that the year before several murals had been whitewashed at TSU, a university about one mile away. Protests, press conferences and petitions were quickly organized.\n\nIn January 2012 the University of Houston formally agreed to preserve the mural and to prominently feature the mural in the University Center's new building design. Diana Gutierrez, a student at the university, did a great deal of campus organizing on behalf of the mural. She did an interview with Mi Casa Broadcasting, explaining her thoughts. Professor Lorenzo Cano, Associate Dean for the Center for Mexican American Studies, was involved in the original efforts to have the mural painted. In at least one interview, he spoke about the murals significance, commenting that when he was enrolled, the Chicano community was not represented very well.\n\nAfter the university had committed to preserving the mural, one of the original artists, Mario Gonzalez, who had been working with the coalition, decided to cease communication with the coalition, in favor of seeking a contract to expand the mural. On January 13, 2014 Mr. Gonzalez stated to the campus newspaper that he wanted to add a section entitled \"En Las Manos De Dios,\" or \"In the Hands of God,\" reflecting his greater interest in religion. The System-wide Art Acquisition Committee denied his request to expand the mural and is now in charge of caring for the mural.\n\nOn January 28, 2014 the University of Houston unveiled the restored piece, which is now on display in the Barnes & Noble student bookstore, located in the University Center.\n\nThe Chicano Mural movement has been recognized internationally as a significant cultural contribution. The Texas State Historical Commission mentions that the Chicano Mural Movement of the 1960s and 70's helped to affirm cultural identity and to challenge racism. The association's website chronicles many murals which were removed or painted over due to controversial themes. Many fell into poor conditions due to their location on exterior walls. This mural seems to be one which has withstood challenges to its message, and may be one of the best preserved murals of the period due to its location indoors as well as recent preservation efforts.\n"}
{"id": "16837370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16837370", "title": "Labor market segmentation", "text": "Labor market segmentation\n\nLabor market segmentation is the division of the labor market according to a principle such as occupation, geography and industry. \n\nOne type of segmentation is to define groups \"with little or no crossover capability\", such that members of one segment cannot easily join another segment. This can result in different segments, for example men and women, receiving different wages for the same work. 19th-century Irish political economist John Elliott Cairnes referred to this phenomenon as that of \"noncompeting groups\". \n\nA related concept is that of a dual labour market (DLM), that splits the aggregate labor market between a primary sector and a secondary sector.\n\nThe theory of labor market segmentation contrasts with neo-classical economic theory, which posits the existence of a unified market for labor, consisting of buyers and sellers in open competition. The labor market thus functions as do other markets. In this model, the difference between different workers' wages and conditions arise from individual differences in their human capital (skills, experience, or formal education) or tastes. On the latter, as part of the theory of compensating wage differentials, those who prefer risky or dirty jobs receive higher compensation than those who take safe or clean ones. Put another way, differences in compensation for labor arise only on the supply side.\n\nThe theory of labor market segmentation posits that differences on the demand side imply differences in compensation that are not explained by individual worker characteristics. Labor markets are not perfect markets. Non-market institutions such as craft unions and professional associations affect employer strategies, producing different results for workers with similar characteristics. \n\nAll workers should be subject to the same employment standards, such as minimum wages, maximum hour laws, occupational safety, security and health laws, regardless of sector. \n\nModern labor market segmentation theory arose in the early 1960s. It changed the view of many economists who had seen the labor market as a market of individuals with different characteristics of e.g., education and motivation. This perspective was intended to help explain the demand-side of the market, and the nature and strategy of employers. The idea of non-competing groups developed under the general label of labor market segmentation theory. The theory emerged in the United States\n\nThe market segmentation model was developed to accommodate the differences in job markets. For example, lawyers and fashion designers work in different markets. Such markets arise from the division of labor, increasing differentiation and specialization. These workers are unable to switch between occupations because they require different skills and investment in training and qualifications. For example, nurses and doctors form separate occupational labor markets even though they work side by side in the same organizations. \n\nGeographical labor markets emerge because of the costs and disruption workers incur in changing locations. As a result, wages for the same work can remain higher in some locations than others. Conversely, employers would incur costs and disruption if they attempted to relocate to an area of lower labor costs, and might experience increases in non-labor expenses. Cultural differences such as preferences for leisure time versus work may follow geography.\n\nGeographical segmentation also occurs on a global basis, specifically between developed and less-dedeveloped countries. However, when labor migrates to developed countries, migrants tend to remain within their original segment, receiving less compensation than native workers. One study found that neoliberal globalization had expanded labor market segmentation. It found that in the West, nations import capital, consumer goods and services exported by countries in the rest of the world, where lower wage workers produce the exports.\n\nOne important segmentation is primary/secondary. The two markets allow limited movement between them. The concepts of primary and secondary labor markets have now passed into conventional thought.\n\nIn a primary sector the workforce receives significant wages and benefits. The job market consists of a majority of blue collar and white collar jobs. The primary sector generally contains the higher-grade, higher-status, and better-paid jobs, with employers who offer the best terms and conditions. The primary sector is sometimes sub-divided into an upper and lower level. \n\nSecondary sector jobs are mostly low-skilled, require relatively little training, and can be learned relatively quickly on the job. Many such jobs feature high turnover, and/or variable demand. Employers are reluctant to invest in such workers, via advanced training or other employee development activities. Wages are low, and the terms and conditions of the job are less favorable.\n\nThe two key formulations are labor market theory and internal labor market theory. The labor market segmentation theory revolves around the identification of a split between two analytic divisions in the economy and the labor market.\n\n"}
{"id": "508362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=508362", "title": "Labor unrest", "text": "Labor unrest\n\nLabor unrest is strike action or industrial action undertaken by labor unions, especially where become violent. Such a conception of labor action was common in the United States in the 19th century, most prominently among mining interests in the American West, and remained common in the 20th century among communist states, such as the Soviet Union and People's Republic of China.\n\n"}
{"id": "55886409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55886409", "title": "List of private residents of Covent Garden", "text": "List of private residents of Covent Garden\n\nThe entries in this tabulation cover some 150 years in the 17th and 18th centuries, when the private residents of Covent Garden included many people of rank and note. They ranged from marquesses to barons, foreign ambassadors and members of parliament to physicians, surgeons, antiquaries, artists, authors and dramatists. Some of the later arrivals were auctioneers, such as Christopher Cock and Abraham Langford, who found rich sources for future sales amongst their neighbours. \n\nMost of the entries are derived from \"The Piazza: Notable private residents in the Piazza\", which in turn is based on Sheppard's \"Survey of London: Volume 36, Covent Garden\". Other sources are noted where appropriate.\n"}
{"id": "40245933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40245933", "title": "Mazayen al-Ibl", "text": "Mazayen al-Ibl\n\nMazayen al-Ibl, also known as the King Abdel Aziz Festival and sometimes referred to as Miss Camel, is a beauty pageant for camels put on by the Qahtani tribe of Saudi Arabia. It is held in Guwei'iyya yearly. In 2007, 250 owners participated, showing a total of more than 1,500 camels. Participants come from every Gulf country except Oman, and from every region of Saudi Arabia except the south-western mountain region, where there are no camel breeders. The competition is held in respect to the role of camels in Bedouin history, and to preserve purebred camel strains.\n\nFour varieties of camel participate in the show: the majaheem, which is black; the maghateer, which is white; the shi'l, which is dark brown; and the sufur, which is beige with black shoulders. There is strict health testing and veterinarians present at the event. The event is supported by the King and Crown Prince Sultan.\n\nPrizes are awarded to the most beautiful camels in four categories based on the number of camels entered by the owner: groups of 100, 50, 10, and individual camels. The beauty of the camel is based on the \"size of its head; whether its lips cover its teeth, the length of its neck and the roundness of its hump\" and \"big eyes, long lashes and a long neck.\" \"The nose should be long and droop down, that's more beautiful [...] The ears should stand back, and the neck should be long. The hump should be high, but slightly to the back.\" The most beautiful camel is called the \"Bayraq\" and can fetch prices of up to $3 million US dollars. In 2007, prizes included 10 million riyals and 72 sports utility vehicles. The winning camels may also sell for prices exceeding one million riyals. There are parts of the festival dedicated to camel trading, where millions of dollars change hands every day.\n\nSome members of more stringent Muslim schools have accused the shows as being evil, and have stated that those who participate should \"seek redemption in God\". In addition, some breeders refuse to take part in the competition, saying that it has become too commercial because wealthy businessmen, who have no interest in preserving the breeds and are only interested in fame, have started to enter. There are also dances, feasts, and parties during the festival, as well as youth camel shows.\n\nA similar contest in Abu Dhabi is the al-Dhafra Festival, which also awards prizes to the best milking camels and hosts camel races. This festival focuses on Asayel (local camels) and Majahim (dark skinned camels), and also features falcon hunting, Saluki and Arabian horse races, and date packing contests.\n"}
{"id": "33096574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33096574", "title": "National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine", "text": "National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine\n\nNational Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine (, \"НАБУ\") or NABU is a Ukrainian law enforcement anti-corruption agency which investigates corruption in Ukraine and prepares cases for prosecution. It has investigatory powers but cannot indict suspects. Only agency findings passed to the Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office become a part of criminal case.\n\nThe agency was established in 2014 after its predecessor, the National Anti-Corruption Committee () was considered a failure. The bureau was created on the request of the International Monetary Fund.\n\nThe agency is set to employ 700 people. Its first 70 detectives started work on 1 October 2015.\n\nThe agency's government funding is mandated under American and European Union aid programs. It has an evidence-sharing agreement with the F.B.I..\n\nThe Ukrainian government also employs the National Agency for Prevention of Corruption which works to prevent corruption by monitoring government officials' lifestyles.\n\nThe position of Commissioner for anti-corruption policy was established by the second Tymoshenko Government on 24 April 2009. Its first meeting took place on 22 April 2010; at the time most of its members were government officials. In September 2011 then President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych became head of the National Anti-Corruption Committee, while the Justice Minister served as the secretary of the committee. At that time the committee was tasked to give systematic analysis and to develop measures to combat corruption.\n\n6 March 2014 Tetiana Chornovol become the Commissioner for anti-corruption policy. At the time the organization was set to employ 1,200 people in seven regional offices. Chornovol resigned on 18 August 2014 because \"there is no political will in Ukraine to carry out a hard-edged, large-scale war against corruption\".\n\nFounding and launching the National Anti-Corruption Bureau was one of the requirements set by the IMF and the European Commission for relaxation of visa restrictions between Ukraine and the European Union.\n\nOn 14 October 2014 Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine adopted the Law \"On the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine\".\n\nIn January 2015 for the first time in history of modern Ukraine an open competition for position of director of a state agency was announced. 186 candidates applied for the position of Director of the National Anti-corruption Bureau of Ukraine. The winner of the competition was Artem Sytnyk.\n\nOn 16 April 2015 the President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko signed two decrees: № 217/2015 – decree on founding the National Anti-corruption Bureau of Ukraine and №218/2015 — decree on appointing Artem Sytnyk the Bureau's Director. This provided a starting point for a new state agency. The first order signed by the NABU Director on 23 April 2015 approved the Bureau's structure and stuffing. On 24 April Gizo Uglava was appointed First Deputy Director. Later two more Deputy Directors were appointed: Anatoly Novak and Tetyana Varvarska.\n\nOn 7 May the Bureau was given premises At 3 Vasylya Surykova street, Kiev.\n\nOn 30 November 2015 the competition for the position of the Head of the Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, on which the start of the NABU work depended, was over. Nazar Kholodnitskiy took the position.\nOn 4 December the NABU detectives entered the first three criminal proceedings concerning the theft of state owned companies' funds to the value of 1 billion UAH into the Unified Register of Pre-Trial Investigations.\n\nThe agency's detectives underwent training sponsored by the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation and the European Union.\n\nFrom June 2017 the NABU Director is a member of the EUACI's Steering Committee. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau is one of the beneficiarys this program.\n\nNABU is one of three anti-corruption pillar institutions in Ukraine, created after the Euromaidan revolution.\n\nThe National Agency for Prevention of Corruption seeks to 'shapes and implements anti-corruption policy while creating an environment conducive to corruption prevention'. While NABU focuses on law-enforcement, the NACP shapes policy and develops regulations that help prevent corruption and ensures compliance.\n\nIt is responsible for verifying the accuracy of government officials' asset and income declarations. In July 2016, its civil society representative, Rouslan Riaboshapka, criticised the hiring process, saying that the agency was choosing the lowest-scoring candidates.\n\nThe Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office (SAPO) supports and oversees criminal investigations launched by NABU, by drawing up indictments and bringing them before the courts.\n\nThe direct control over the bureau is conducted by the parliamentary committee on issues of fighting organized crime and corruption.\n\nThe NABU director\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9809321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9809321", "title": "Obaidullah Akhund", "text": "Obaidullah Akhund\n\nMullah Obaidullah, the Akhund () (died March 5, 2010) was the Defence Minister under the Taliban government in Afghanistan and later became an insurgent commander during the Taliban insurgency against the new Afghan government and the US-led NATO forces. He was captured by Pakistani security forces in 2007 and died in 2010 of a heart disease inside a prison in Pakistan.\n\nMulla Obaidullah was born in the Panjwai district of Kandahar Province in southern Afghanistan and was believed to be born approximately in 1968. He is an Alakozai. Obaidullah Akhund became the Defense Minister of Afghanistan in the 1990, and the second of three top deputies to Mullah Omar, the spiritual leader of the Taliban movement. Obaidullah was seen as the \"number three\" man in the Taliban. In late 2001 or early 2002, Obaidullah surrendered to the Afghan Northern Alliance troops but was released as part of an amnesty. He was one of the main military leaders in 2003 and was named to the Mujahideen Shura Council. Abdul Latif Hakimi, who was captured by Pakistan in 2005, said that Obaidullah was one of two people with direct access to Mullah Omar and that Obaidullah had personally ordered insurgent attacks, including the killing of a foreign-aid official in March 2005.\n\nObaidullah was captured by Pakistani security forces in February 2007 in Quetta, Pakistan. He was the most senior Taliban official captured since the start of the present war in Afghanistan. The arrest coincided with U.S. Vice-President Dick Cheney's visit to Afghanistan and Pakistan in late February 2007, but the timing has been reported to be a coincidence rather than a reaction to Cheney's visit.\n\nObaidullah was freed in November 2007 in exchange for the release of more than 200 Pakistani soldiers captured by the Taliban. He was rearrested in February 2008 and died on March 5, 2010, of a heart disease inside a prison in Karachi, Pakistan.\n"}
{"id": "31035136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31035136", "title": "Operación Nécora", "text": "Operación Nécora\n\nOperation Necora (, lit. Velvet Crab) was a major Spanish police operation against drug traffickers in Galicia, Spain. It led to the arrest of 54 people.\n\nIn the 1970s fishermen from declining fishing towns along the Galician coastline turned to the more lucrative occupation of importing contraband cigarettes from the United States; At that time the sole manufacturer of cigarettes in Spain was Tabacalera, a monopolistic state-owned company.\n\nThe topography of the Arousan coastline, dotted with coves and inlets, allowed these to bring in the contraband under the cover of darkness and from there distribute it throughout Spain. In the 1980s, the Medellín cartel, under pressure from the US authorities and a saturated North American cocaine market turned to Europe, the smugglers utilized the methods developed in the previous decade to import hashish, and later cocaine for the cartels. From the town of Vilagarcía de Arousa - the main distribution point for the smugglers - Colombian traffickers from Madrid would collect the drugs and distribute them throughout the rest of Spain.\n\nThe investigation into the international trafficking of drugs through Galicia was prompted by a letter sent in August 1989 by Ricardo Portabales Rodríguez, a drug dealer serving a prison sentence, to Luciano Varela, an investigating magistrate of Pontevedra's provincial court. The inquisitorial system used in Spanish civil law required further investigation by an investigating magistrate. Varela deemed the case to be too big for a provincial court to investigate so it was transferred to the \"Audiencia Nacional\", Spain's highest criminal court. A 35-year-old magistrate in Baltasar Garzón was charged with carrying out the investigation. The investigation was carried out with the assistance of Section IV of the Central Narcotics Department (). Garzón used testimony from two informants known in the media as (The penitents): the aforementioned Ricardo Portabales Rodríguez and Manuel Fernández Padín, an actual member of one of the \"clans\", to build the case against the traffickers.\n\nOn the morning of June 12, 1990 a hundred vehicles containing 350 officers from the Central Narcotics Department, flown in specifically from Madrid to prevent any possible leaks from the local police force, left the main police station in the Galician capital, Santiago de Compostela, heading for the \"comarca\" of O Salnés. From there, each vehicle went on to their pre-assigned targets in different towns throughout the \"comarca\". The operation was initially known as \"Operación Mago\" (Operation Magi) - Garzón was told that they had named it after himself; however, he rejected this name and they settled on \"Operación Necora\". \nThe base of operations was Vilagarcía de Arousa's police station, the former local party headquarters of the Falange. It was carried out under the judicial supervision of Baltsar Garzón, Luciano Varela and Javier Zaragoza, the deputy anti-drug prosecutor.\n\nOn September 6, 1990 the Anti-drug prosecutor presented an indictment against 49 of those arrested (Indictment 13/90). Of the remaining five, the prosecutor's office started a separate proceeding against three: Marcial Dorado Baúnde \"Marcial de la Isla\", Michel Haengi and Miguel Rivero González on the grounds of money-laundering - something that would delay the start of the main trial. Luis Falcon Pérez \"Falconetti\" and Tomás Leis Carlés were released on bail, however, they remained imprisoned on unrelated charges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2010244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010244", "title": "Pannonian Rusyns", "text": "Pannonian Rusyns\n\nRusyns in Pannonia, or simply Rusyns or Ruthenians (Rusyn: Руснаци or Русини, Serbian: Русини/\"Rusini\", Croatian: \"Rusini\"), are a regional minority subgroup of the Rusyns, an Eastern Slavic peoples. They are located in the Central European region of Pannonia, which today covers almost all of Hungary, the southern-most parts of Slovakia, northeast Croatia, a tiny sliver portion of northeast Slovenia, and the northern-most part of Serbia (Vojvodina).\n\nThey are also considered to be related to the northern Carpathian Rusyns (Carpathian Ruthenians) who live in Carpathian Ruthenia (mostly in Ukraine and Slovakia, but also in Poland, Romania, Czech Republic and Hungary).\n\nRusyns in Pannonia mostly live in the autonomous province of Vojvodina in Serbia. There are 14,246 declared ethnic Rusyns in Serbia (2011 census). The village of Ruski Krstur in the Kula municipality is the cultural centre of the Pannonian Rusyns. There is a considerable concentration of Rusyns in Novi Sad, where in 1820 the construction of St. Peter and Paul Greek Catholic parish church started and was subsequently completed in 1834/1837. Other villages with a Rusyn majority include Kucura in the Vrbas municipality, and Bikić Do in the Šid municipality. There are Pannonian Rusyn communities in Slavonia (Croatia), forming a majority in the village of Petrovci, Bogdanovci municipality, in Vukovar-Srijem county.\n\nThe population of Banat and Bačka was decimated in the Ottoman wars. Rusyns emigrated to today's Banat and Bačka regions alongside Germans, Hungarians and Slovaks from a region that, in modern times, comprises parts of eastern Slovakia and northwestern Hungary. This was part of an intensive colonization by the Austrian Empire of the region's rich, arable land, aimed at increasing state revenue through taxes.\n\nThe census of Kula municipality from 1746 shows for the first time three Rusyns — Janko and Petro Homa and Janko Makovicki.\n\nThe official date of Rusyn settlement in Vojvodina is January 17, 1751 when the administrator of Bačka Franc Josip de Redl signed a contract with Mihajlo Munkači from the village of Červenovo, in the county of Bereg, to bring 200 Rusyn families of Greek-Catholic rite from the upper Hungarian districts known as the \"Upper-Land\" (Горнїца) to Kerestur. Kerestur was a Serbian settlement mentioned 1741 as ruined and abandoned, as the settlers had moved to Čelarevo. The same administrator signed another contract on May 15, 1763 with Petro Kiš from Kerestur to bring 150 Rusyn families of Greek Catholic rite from the same areas in the \"Upper-Land\" to Kocur.\n\nAs the population grew and arable land given to settlers by contract was limited, many families from Kerestur and Kocur decided to migrate to the town of Novi Sad in 1766 and 1767. Later, Rusyns settled in Šid and Vajska, and in the early 19th century in Vukovar and Ilok, now in modern-day Croatia. In Petrovci, also Croatia, Rusyns started settlement in 1833, and later in Bačinci in 1834.\n\nThe census from 1767 for the whole Bač-Bodroš county (which then was part of Habsburg Monarchy and today comprises Bačka region in Serbia and Hungary) shows about 2.000 Rusyns. The census from 1991 in the same area shows about 25.000 Rusyns. Currently, the number of Panonian Rusyns declines and is estimated to be about 15.000. The main reason for this is the increased number of Rusyns who decided to move to Canada.\n\nRusyns are officially recognized as an autochthonous national minority in Croatia and, as such, they elect a special representative to the Croatian Parliament, shared with members of eleven other national minorities.\n\nPannonian Rusyns consider their Rusyn variety to be a distinct language.\n\nRusyn is one of the six official languages of provincial administration in Vojvodina, while in Croatia it is officially used in two settlements.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43609739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43609739", "title": "Peruvians in Italy", "text": "Peruvians in Italy\n\nThe presence of Peruvians in Italy dates back to the 1980s.\n\nIn 2011, Italy had 246,908 regular immigrants from Peru. In 2006, they were 66,506. The three cities with the highest number of Peruvians are: Milan, Rome and Turin.\n\nThe 2011 Census recorded 246,908 Peruvian-born people.\n\n"}
{"id": "37301704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37301704", "title": "Prostitution in Ivory Coast", "text": "Prostitution in Ivory Coast\n\nProstitution in Ivory Coast (Côte d'Ivoire) is legal, but associated activities, such as soliciting, pandering or running brothels, are illegal. Sex workers report law enforcement is sparse and corrupt. Police sometimes harass sex workers and demand bribes or sexual favours. Transgender prostitutes are often targeted by police and soldiers and subjected to violence. It was estimated in 2014 that there were 9,211 prostitutes in the country.\n\nThe civil war has left many women in need for wages, so some have resorted to prostitution, as there is high unemployment.\n\nIn the capital, Abidjan, most of the prostitutes come from Ghana, Nigeria, Togo, Mali, Senegal and other West African states, the largest group being from Ghana. Ivoirian soldiers and UN Peacekeeping personnel are amongst the clients.\n\nIn the cities, sex workers have started organisations to protect their interests. Often they cater for a particular ethnic group. Each organisation has a president and other officers, these are normally older prostitutes who are regarded as \"wiser\".\n\nSex Tourism is also a problem in the Ivory Coast.\n\n\nPrior to the arrival of the Europeans, a form of institutional prostitution took place in the country. The political elite acquired women, usually slaves, to service the sexual needs of the unmarried males. They were initiated by religious rites and their earnings were controlled by the state. To distinguish them, they wore a cloth of white linen around their head. Married men were forbidden to use their services, and punishment was severe.\n\nIn the 1960s, many French prostitutes came to the country, mainly from Paris and Marseilles. They worked as barmaids at bars and nightclubs, predominately in Abidjan. They charged high fees, but the bar owner took a per-client \"air conditioning\" commission. Because of the high fees, clients were Europeans or elite Africans.\n\nGhanaian woman started to migrate to the Ivory Coast to work as prostitutes in the 1970s due to a downturn in the Ghanaian economy. This migration continued, and in the 1990s over half of the prostitutes in Abidjan were from Ghana.\n\nAs with other countries in West Africa, Ivory Coast has an HIV epidemic. Sex workers are a high risk group, and condom use was previously not common, leading to 70% of sex workers in Abidjan being HIV positive in 1995. Aggressive public outreach campaigns and education interventions targeted key high-risk populations, such as sex workers, which brought the infection rate down to 40% in 1998.\n\nContinued campaigns, education, condom distribution and access to better health care brought the HIV prevalence amongst sex workers down to 26.6% in 2011, and 11% in 2016.\n\nIvory Coast is a source, transit, and destination country for women and children subjected to sex trafficking. Trafficking within the country is more prevalent than transnational trafficking, and the majority of identified victims are children. Due to a stronger emphasis on monitoring and combating child trafficking within the country, the prevalence of adult trafficking may be under reported. Ivoirian women and girls are primarily subjected to forced labor in domestic service and restaurants in Côte d'Ivoire but are also exploited in sex trafficking. Some women and girls recruited from Ghana and Nigeria as waitresses are subjected to sex trafficking. Officials note illegal Ivoirian migrants in Algeria are vulnerable to trafficking due to their irregular and illegal status. A lack of comprehensive data on trafficking in Côte d'Ivoire renders the full scope of the problem unknown.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Ivory Coast as a Tier 2 country.\n"}
{"id": "6587935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6587935", "title": "Quilombolo", "text": "Quilombolo\n\nThe Quilombola are an ethnic minority in Brazil. They live in closed communities, called quilombos. They trace back from slaves (mostly Angolan), brought to Brazil in the seventeenth century.\nOne of their leaders was Chico Rei, a Congolose king captured and sold as a slave to a gold mine in Minas Gerais. He was the first to create a free quilombo.\n\nThe word Quilombo comes from the Angolan word kilombo, which means \"different.\"\n\nThe quilombo was based on the African way of life, an African-European language was adopted and the religion they followed was a mixture of Christianity with African influences.\n\nAs they had to fight for their existence ever since their establishment (against slave traders, the Dutch, the Portuguese, and Brazilian government), they keep closed, and their establishments are not freely accessible (because of Brazilian administration too).\n\nQuilombo's exist (but are not limited to) in Manqueira, Ilha de Mare.\n\n"}
{"id": "3329731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3329731", "title": "Sarbani", "text": "Sarbani\n\nSaṛbanī () are the largest tribal group of Pashtuns. They are situated in Afghanistan and Pakistan. The Sarbani include many Pashtun tribes, among whom the most numerous are the Tareen, Durrani historically Sadduzai, Abdali, Barakzai, Alakozai, Achakzai, Gigyani, Popalzai, Yusufzai, Momand, Shilmani, Khalil, Ghoryakhel, Shinwari, Kasi, and Muhammadzai (Hashtnagar). According to the Pashtun legend of origins, the members of the Sarbani group all descend from Sarban, said to be the first son of the legendary founding father of the Pashtun people, Qais Abdur Rashid.\n\nThe name \"Sarbani\" is similar or identical to the name of an historical tribe on Caucasus that was also named Sarbani (the Caucasian tribe was recorded under this name in the 10th century). Pashtuns are believed to be of Scythian descent and their language is classified as East Scythian (Sarmatian language is also grouped within Scythian branch).\n\nThe origin of the Sarbani, might be connected with Hephthalites, who had a large nomadic confederation that included present-day Afghanistan and Pakistan in the 5th-6th centuries AD, as well as with Scythians, who are known to have settled where most of Pashtuns live today.\n\nThe Durrani Empire that existed in the 18th-19th centuries and that was centered in the territory of present-day Afghanistan and Pakistan was founded by the Ahmad Shah Durrani, a Pashtun military commander under Nader Shah of Persia and chief of the Abdali Sarban tribe. Since that time, the Abdali tribe is known as Durrani.\n\nIn Afghanistan, Sarbani mainly inhabit the provinces of Kandahar, Zabul, Uruzgan, Helmand, Nimroz, Farah, Herat, Badghis, Balkh, and Kunduz, as well as the provinces Nangarhar and Kunar in the eastern part of the country.\n\nIn Pakistan, Sarbani are living throughout the city of Peshawar, northern and eastern parts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the Federally Administered Tribal Areas regions. Additional large settlements are found in Multan, Quetta, KPK, Mansehra, Abbottabad, Haripur and in the northern parts of Balochistan.\n\nAbubakar Siddique writes that \"Under the prevailing classifications, Pashtuns are divided into four main tribal groupings: the Sarbani, Bhittani, Ghurghust and Karlani... The Sarbanis are divided into two branches: the Sharkbun and the Kharshbun. The most significant tribes of this branch today are the Sherani, the Tareen, the Urmer (an adopted tribe), Durranis, Khalils, Mohmands, Daudzai, Chamkanis, Yousafzai, Shinwari and Tarkalani.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46816809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46816809", "title": "Seattle Arctic drilling protests", "text": "Seattle Arctic drilling protests\n\nProtests against Arctic drilling began in Seattle in 2015 in response to the news that the Port of Seattle authority made an agreement with Royal Dutch Shell to berth offshore drillships and semi-submersibles at the Port's Terminal 5 (T5) during the off-season of oil exploration in Alaskan waters of the Arctic. Hundreds of protesters took to Elliott Bay in kayaks, rafts, and other small boats, both as a demonstration and to interrupt docking of Shell's \"Polar Pioneer\" semi-submersible drilling vessel at Terminal 5. The waterborne demonstrators were dubbed kayaktivists by social and news media.\n\nOn September 27, 2015 Shell announced that their exploration in the summer of 2015 was \"disappointing\" and that they would abandon further oil exploration in the Arctic \"for the foreseeable future\".\n\nSeattle has been a staging point for those seeking to exploit the natural resources of the Alaska region since the Klondike Gold Rush of 1896, when the city was the main supply center and departure point for prospectors heading to the gold fields of Alaska and the Yukon. The perception by some Alaskans that Seattle exerted undue influence on the Territory helped motivate their desire for Alaskan statehood, achieved in 1958. Since the discovery of oil in Prudhoe Bay in 1968, Seattle has played an integral role in the Alaska petroleum industry.\n\nThe city of Seattle says the maritime sector which includes ship builders, cargo vessels and tug companies comprises 22,000 jobs for a $2.1 billion annual contribution to the Seattle economy.\n\nSeattle is known for environmentalism. A theme of the 1999 Seattle WTO protests was the reconciliation of the labor and environmental movements under the slogan \"Teamsters and Turtles: Together at Last\", seeking to end the traditional stalemate of job creation pitted against environmental protection in a zero sum conflict.\n\nIn the summer 2012, Shell refurbished the \"Kulluk\" and the \"Noble Discoverer\" drillships in Seattle, which the company said employed 400 shipyard workers and put $200 million into the local economy. The ships were for use in exploration for oil in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas off Alaska's North Coast, which if successful could begin production no sooner than 2023. Greenpeace opposed these plans, and some Iñupiat people of the North Slope said that in spite of the economic benefits to them, they feared damage to the ocean environment they depend on for food. A Barrow, Alaska village organization director said, \"We are opposed to offshore development because the ocean is like our garden up here in the Arctic for our subsistence way of life.\"\n\nThe \"Kulluk\" ran aground in January 2013 and had to be rescued, resulting in the US Department of the Interior ordering Shell to halt drilling until safety problems were corrected. Shell was criticized in an Interior Department report, which cited inadequate supervision of subcontractors by Shell's management, and a lack of preparedness for the Arctic conditions. New regulations were written by the Department, and drilling was restricted to shallower waters, up to deep, and to summer months only, and stricter rules on blowout preventers were put in place.\n\nEnvironmentalists and oil industry experts agree the area is one of the most dangerous areas in the world to drill, because besides rough seas including waves, storms, and cold weather, the cleanup and rescue is made harder by a lack of any roads to major cities and no deepwater ports within hundreds of miles, with the closest Coast Guard station capable of assisting in an oil spill located away. Bowhead whales and walruses migrate through the area, and the Iñupiat fear an oil spill could damage both their whaling-based culture and livelihood. A statement from the Interior Department said they were taking a \"thoughtful approach\" in balancing environmental and safety concerns, and respect for the traditions of indigenous people. Susan Murray of the environmental group Oceana said, \"Shell has not shown that it is prepared to operate responsibly in the Arctic Ocean, and neither the company nor our government has been willing to fully and fairly evaluate the risks of Shell's proposal.\"\n\nShell's Alaska vice president Pete Slaiby said its goal was not, \"any kind of grand energy independence\", but rather that, \"This is all about energy choice,\" so that the US could replace oil imports from hostile foreign regimes with domestic production. Shell says the Arctic holds about 30% of the undiscovered oil and gas in the world, and exploiting it is necessary to satisfy growing world demand, though US domestic petroleum production is booming in 2015, due mainly to fracking in Texas and North Dakota, and oil prices are falling. At current rates the goal of US energy independence, oil exports exceeding imports, could be reached by 2030, according to the US Energy Information Administration. This turning point could come sooner with greatly increased Arctic oil production.\n\nIn October 2013, Terminal 5's tenant, Eagle Maritime Services, made plans to relocate. The Port of Seattle decided to update T5, and they asked businesses, including Foss Maritime, to find temporary uses for that terminal. Foss has been in Seattle for over 100 years. In May, 2014, Foss Maritime representatives met with Port staff, discussing the use of T5 to handle modules of a liquid natural gas plant which would go by barge to Canada for assembly. In June, Foss had the idea of using T5 for mooring Shell oil rigs.\n\nThe purpose of the new lease was to provide an off-season harbor for Shell vessels conducting exploratory drilling in the summer in the Chukchi Sea off Alaska's northwest coast. The US Geological Survey has estimated the offshore reserves in the Arctic at 26 million barrels of oil and 130 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.\n\nThe leases of Eagle Marine Services and Westwood Shipping Lines ended in July 2014, so the following month Eagle moved to the Port of Seattle's Terminal 18 and Westwood moved to Tacoma, so T5 was without a tenant. The new lease with Shell was valued at $13 million. During these months, representatives of Shell, Foss, The US Coast Guard, the Port, and Puget Sound Pilots watched a simulation of an oil rig entering Elliott Bay to evaluate traffic safety and determine where to moor the rigs. In December 2014, the commissioners and staff of the Port were receiving emails from the maritime community expressing support for hosting the drilling rigs. During the last months of 2014, a safety assessment was carried out by the Port, the Coast Guard, Foss, and Puget Sound Pilots, by conducting a simulation of an oil rig entering Elliott Bay.\n\nOn January 13, 2015, the first public meeting took place regarding plans by Foss to host Shell's Arctic drilling fleet at Terminal 5. On February 9, the lease with Shell was signed by Port of Seattle CEO Ted Fick.\n\nWhen the deal became known, Seattle Mayor Ed Murray and the Seattle City Council announced they would review it. On March 9, the city of Seattle began looking for ways it could hinder the deal. Murray asked Port to reconsider the contract with Foss, and said that the Port of Seattle must get permits for new uses in order to host the Arctic drilling fleet, explaining that, \"This is an opportunity for the port and all of us to make a bold statement about how oil companies contribute to climate change, oil spills and other environmental disasters – and reject this short-term lease.\" \n\nShell's \"Polar Pioneer\" semi-submersible drilling rig arrived in Port Angeles, Washington on April 17, 2015, on its way to Seattle. The \"Polar Pioneer\", , was built in 1985 by Hitachi Zosen Corporation in Ariake, Kagoshima, Japan. The rig is long and wide, with a draft of , and rising to a height of , weighing . It is driven by electric motors powered by diesel generators, at an average speed of , and a maximum of . The Marshall Islands-registered ship is owned and operated by Transocean, and is ander contract to Royal Dutch Shell.\n\nOn May 11, the Obama administration and the Department of the Interior announced that Shell had won conditional approval to being exploratory drilling in the Chukchi Sea with leases Shell had acquired in 2008. Seven more state and Federal permits would be required to commence operations. The decision was a victory for Shell, having worked for several years to overcome regulatory roadblocks, based primarily on concerns of an accident like the 2010 \"Deepwater Horizon\" oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. The dangers of the Arctic seas and weather were seen as increasing the risk of an accident, as well as exacerbating the difficulty of containing a blowout and oil spill, and carrying out cleanup. An earlier attempt to begin drilling was suspended due to safety issues including a fire on one rig.\n\nOn May 12, the same day Port Commissioners filed an appeal of the city's land use permit decision, Shell's drillship \"Noble Discoverer\" arrived in Everett, Washington on its way to Bellingham, Washington. The ship, is a Liberian-flagged Sonat Discoverer-class drillship built in 1966 by Namura Shipbuilding and owned by Noble Corporation, weighing , long with a tall drilling derrick capable of drilling in of water to a drilling depth of . It was met by 10 protesters in kayaks, along with a Greenpeace motorboat carrying reporters. The kayakers displayed banners reading \"ShellNo.org\" and \"Arctic drilling = climate chaos\". The Everett protest was described by one kayaktivist as \"just a warm up\" for the upcoming event in Seattle.\n\nIn the pre-dawn hours of May 14, the \"Polar Pioneer\" left Port Angeles with a Coast Guard and tugboat escort. A safety zone was established around the moving rig, and the Coast Guard issued warnings to protestors ahead of time to stay clear. At least 20 kayaks, and members of the Duwamish Tribe in a large wooden canoe, greeted the rig in Elliott Bay, unfurling a banner reading \"Arctic Drilling = Climate Change.\" Many of the kayakers were freshly trained that day, in rented boats. When the \"Polar Pioneer\" arrived in Elliott Bay, it was met by a flotilla of hundreds more protestors in kayaks and other small boats, voicing their opposition to oil drilling in Arctic waters because of the risk of oil spills, undersea oil well blowouts, damage to wildlife from human activity, and the climate change caused by the use of fossil fuels. There were no problems or arrests during the protest and the \"Polar Pioneer\" was safely moored at Terminal 5 at 4:30 pm. \n\nA counter-protestor at Seacrest Park, recently laid off from the maritime industry, said \"If these (activists) choose to put me and guys like me out of work for an idea, what are they trying to do?\" Foss Maritime said to date, 417 people had been employed by the Shell contract, with Shell paying Transocean $593,000 per day to lease the \"Polar Pioneer\", out of some $6 billion the company was going to spend on Alaska oil exploration. Over the life of the two-year lease, Foss will pay $13.17 million to the Port of Seattle.\n\nDemocratic Alaska State Representative Bob Herron said on the Alaska State House floor, \"It must be nice to eat cheese and sip wine in Olympia while they talk about the Arctic. But it does remind us of the paternalistic past when the state of Alaska was plundered by people from Washington and other areas … who covet our resources.\"\n\nShell said they were committed to drilling in the Arctic one way or another, but City Council member Mike O'Brien told MSNBC's Chris Hayes, \"All the other major players have pulled out of the Arctic. It's only Shell that's left. And the only two ports they were looking at to host this fleet were Seattle and Dutch Harbor, Alaska. And Dutch Harbor's really a problematic environment because the weather up there is so severe. So we think that if they're not in Seattle then it may be the end of Arctic drilling for the near future.\" With regard to the economic impact on Seattle and the threat of lost jobs, O'Brien said, \"There's no doubt that our economy is tied to the fossil fuel industry. We have a lot of work to do if we're going to unwind that and become that kind of sustainable planet that we want to be. [...] there's jobs tied to that fossil fuel industry. We have to figure out how we transition away from that. What we can't do today is take a huge step backwards. And drilling in the Arctic and tying Seattle's future to successful drilling in the Arctic is that huge step backwards that undermines what were trying to do.\"\n\nAs part of the ongoing series of protests, activists from the group Mosquito Fleet rented a barge from Lakeshore Marine Construction of Kenmore. They anchored it off Seacrest Park, christening it \"The People's Platform\", and equipping it with speakers, video equipment, a huge video screen, and solar and wind power supplies. The project was led by Arctic drilling protest organizer John Sellers, who works for a nonprofit called The Other 98% which addresses \"undue corporate influence\". The Mosquito Fleet raised $16,400 in donations in 6 days with a YouTube video proposal on Indiegogo to fund the barge rental, at a rate of about $15,000 every two weeks.\n\nOn May 22, 2015 the protests spread to Bellingham when student activist Chiara D'Angelo chained herself to the anchor chain of the Royal Dutch Shell barge \"Arctic Challenger\" for 63 hours.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> A reference to the historical Puget Sound Mosquito Fleet\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59964", "title": "Senufo people", "text": "Senufo people\n\nThe Senufo people, also known as Siena, Senefo, Sene, Senoufo, Syénambélé and Bamana, are a West African ethnolinguistic group. They consist of diverse subgroups living in a region spanning the northern Ivory Coast, the southeastern Mali and the western Burkina Faso. One sub-group, the Nafana, is found in north-western Ghana.\n\nThe Senufo people are predominantly animists, with some who are Muslims. They are regionally famous for their handicrafts, many of which feature their cultural themes and religious beliefs.\n\nIn the 1980s, estimates placed the total ethnic group population of Senufo people somewhere between 1.5 and 2.7 million. A 2013 estimate places the total over 3 million, with majority of them living in Ivory Coast in places such as Katiola, and some 0.8 million in southeastern Mali. Their highest population densities are found in the land between the Black Volta river, Bagoe River and Bani River.\n\nThe Senufo people are typically studied in three large subgroups which have been relatively isolated. The northern Senufo are called \"Supide or Kenedougou\", found near Odienne, and who helped found an important kingdom of West Africa and challenged Muslim missionaries and traders. The southern Senufo are the largest group, numbering over 2 million, who allowed Muslim traders to settle within their communities in the 18th century who actively proselytized, and about 20% of the southern Senufo are Muslims. The third group is very small and isolated from both northern and southern Senufo. Some sociologists such as the French scholar Holas mentions fifteen identifiable sub-groups of Senufo people, with thirty dialects and four castes scattered between them.\n\nThe term \"Senufo\" refers to a linguistic group comprising roughly thirty related dialects within the larger Gur language family. It belongs to the Gur-branch of the Niger-Congo language family, and consists of four distinct languages namely Palaka(also spelt Kpalaga), Djimini(also spelt Dyimini), and Senari in Côte d'Ivoire and Suppire( also spelt Supyire) in Mali, as well as Karaboro in Burkina Faso. Within each group, numerous subdivisions use their own names for the people and language; the name Senufo is of external origin. Palaka separated from the main Senufo stock well before the 14th century ad; at about that time, with the founding of the town of Kong as a Bambara trade-route station, the rest of the population began migrations to the south, west, and north, resulting in the present divisions.The Senufo speaking people range from 800,000 to one million and live in agricultural based communities predominately located in the Côte d'Ivoire, West Africa, Africa.\n\nKorhogo, an ancient town in northern Ivory Coast dating from the 13th century, is linked to the Senufo people. This separation of languages and sub-ethnic groups may be linked to the 14th-century migrations with its founding along with the Bambara trade-route.\n\nThe Senufo people emerged as a group sometime within the 15th or 16th century. They were a significant part of the 17th to 19th-century Kénédougou Kingdom (literally \"country of the plain\") with the capital of Sikasso. This region saw many wars including the rule of Daoula Ba Traoré, a cruel despot who reigned between 1840 and 1877. The Islamisation of the Senufo people began during this historical period of the Kénédougou Kingdom, but it was the chiefs who converted, while the general Senufo population refused. Daoula Ba Traoré attempted to convert his kingdom to Islam, destroying many villages within the kingdom such as Guiembe and Nielle in 1875 because they resisted his views. The Kénédougou dynastic rulers attacked their neighbors as well, such as the Zarma people and they in turn counterattacked many times between 1883 and 1898.\n\nThe pre-colonial wars and violence led to their migration into Burkina Faso in regions that became towns such as Tiembara in Kiembara Department. The Kénédougou kingdom and the Traoré dynasty were dissolved in 1898 with the arrival of French colonial rule.\n\nThe Senufo people were both victims of and perpetrators of slavery as they victimized other ethnic groups by enslavement. They were enslaved by various African ethnic groups as the Denkyira and Akan states were attacked or fell in the 17th and 18th centuries. They themselves bought and sold slaves to Muslim merchants, Asante people and Baoulé people. As refugees from other West African ethnic groups escaped wars, states Paul Lovejoy, some of them moved into the Senufo lands, seized their lands and enslaved them.\n\nThe largest demand for slaves initially came from the markets of Sudan, and for a long time, slave trading was the most important economic activity across the Sahel and West Africa, states Martin Klein. Sikasso and Bobo-Dioulasso were important sources of slaves captured who were then moved to Timbuktu and Banamba on their way to the Sudanese and Mauritanian slave markets.\n\nThose enslaved in Senufo lands worked the land, herds and served within the home. Their owner and his dependents also had the right to have sexual intercourse with female domestic slaves. The children of a female slave inherited her slave status.\n\nThe Senufo are predominantly an agricultural people cultivating corn, millet, yams and peanut. Senufo villages consist of small mud-brick homes. In the rainy southern communities of Senufo, thatched roofs are common, while flat roofs are prevalent in dry desert-like north. The Senufo is a patriarchal extended family society, where arranged typically cousin marriage and polygyny has been fairly common. However, succession and property inheritance has been matrilineal.\n\nAs agriculturalists, they cultivate a wide variety of crops, including cotton and cash crops for the international market. As musicians, they are world renowned, playing a multitude of instruments from: wind instruments (Aerophones), stringed instruments (Chordaphones) and percussive instruments (Membranophones). Senufo communities utilize a caste system, each division known as a \"katioula\". In this system the farmers known as Fo no, and the artisans at the opposite ends of the spectrum. The term artisan itself encompasses different individual castes within Senufo society including blacksmiths (Kule), carvers (Kpeene), brasscutters (Tyeli), potterers, and leather workers, whose lives revolve around the roles, responsibilities and structures inhabited by the individual class. Training to become an artisan takes about seven or eight years; commencing with an apprenticeship where the trainees create objects unassociated with the religion of the Senufo, then culminating with an initiation process where they obtain the ability to create ritual object.\n\nThe Senufo are regionally famous as musicians and superb carvers of wood sculpture, masks and figurines. The Senufo people have specialized their art and handicraft work by subgroups, wherein the art is learnt within this group from one generation to the next. The \"Kulubele\" specialize as woodcarvers, the \"Fonombele\" specialize in blacksmith and basketry work, the \"Kpeembele\" as brass casting specialists, the \"Djelebele\" are renowned for leatherwork, the \"Tchedumbele\" are masters of gunsmith work, while \"Numu\" specialize in smithing and weaving. Outside the artisan subgroups, the Senufo people have hunters, musicians, grave-diggers, diviners and healers who are called the \"Fejembele\". Among these various subgroups, the leatherworkers or \"Djelebele\" are the ones who have most adopted Islam, and even those who convert retain many of their animist practices.\n\nThe Senufo people have traditionally been a socially stratified society, like many West African ethnic groups with castes. These endogamous divisions are locally called \"Katioula\", and one of the strata in this division includes slaves and descendants of slaves. According to Dolores Richter, the caste system found among Senufo people features \"hierarchical ranking including despised lower castes, occupational specificity, ritual complementarity, endogamy, hereditary membership, residential isolation and the political superiority of farmers over artisan castes\".\n\nThe Senufo people usually fall within four societies in their culture: Poro, Sandogo, Wambele, and Tyekpa. While all the societies fill particular roles in the governance and education of the Senufo people, the Poro and Sandogo. Spirituality and divination are divided between these two gender imperative societies with men falling under the Poro society and women falling under the Sando or Sandogo society, with the exception of men who are members because of their mother. These societies are also the two which create the majority of commissioned Seunfo art.\n\nThe Senufo villages are typically independent of each other, and each has a male secret society called \"Poro\" with elaborate initiation rituals in a patch of forest they consider as sacred. The initiation rituals involve masks, figurines and ritual equipment that the Senufo people carve and have perfected. The secrecy has helped the Senufo people to preserve their culture in the times of wars and political pressure. They wear specially crafted brass jewelry, such as those mimicking wildlife. \"\"The main function of Poro is to guarantee a good relationship between the living world and the ancestors. Nerejao is an ancestress who is recognized as the true head of the Poro society. Divination, which is governed by the Sandogo society, is also an important part of Senufo religion. Although Sandogo is usually considered a women's society, men who are called to the profession and inherit through the matrilineal line are permitted to become diviners.\"\"\n\nThe \"Sandogo\" are women diviners among the Senufo people. They too have their own rituals and secret order. In addition, the Senufo people have \"Wambele\" and \"Typka\" who perform sorcery and rituals.\n\nWithin Senufo culture, the female form is placed above all others in terms of beauty and aesthetics and caryatid figures are seen with various cultural connotations. This is tied into the worship of the spirit \"Ancient Mother\" or the spirit \"mother\", Maleeo, who is revered as a guiding entity by all Poro society initiates and members. The goddess Maleeo is a partner of the god Kolocolo, who is seen as the identifying deity of the Sandogo, who granted the people marriage and this particular type of lineage to allow communication from humanity and the spirit world. Caryatid figures are seen as representations of the role of women as spiritual mediators and the Sandogo utilize them in ceremonies as symbols of this bilateral celestial discourse. Likewise, in the case of the Poro, there are writings about caryatid figures being used in ceremonies where they are brought out to commemorate the advance in the age-grade cycle, as well as being utilized to raise funds by initiates of the society. Calved figures were used in a tyekpa funeral ceremony as dance sculpture, held upon the head of the dancers while the ceremony takes place.\n\nThe traditional Senufo religion is a type of animism. This Senufo belief includes ancestral and nature spirits, who can be contacted. They believe in a Supreme Being, who is viewed in a dual male-female: a male Creator God called \"Kolotyolo\" or \"Koulotiolo\", and an Ancient Mother called \"Maleeo\" or \"Katieleo\".\n\nThe art of Senufo people inspired 20th-century European artists such as Pablo Picasso and Fernand Léger. The cubism and masks found in Senufo pieces were a part of Pablo Picasso's African period. The term \"Senufo\" has become a category to art collectors and scholars, a symbolism for the artistic traditions of West Africa, starting with the early twentieth century. Old pieces of Senufo art are found in many leading museums of the world.\n\nCornélius Yao Azaglo Augustt, a photographer, created a photo journal of Senufo people from 1955 onwards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "167748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=167748", "title": "Sex position", "text": "Sex position\n\nA sex position is a position of the body that an individual or couple people may use for sexual intercourse or other sexual activities. Sexual acts are generally described by the positions the participants adopt in order to perform those acts. Though sexual intercourse generally involves penetration of the body of one person by another, sex positions commonly involve penetrative or non-penetrative sexual activities.\n\nThree categories of sexual intercourse are commonly practiced: vaginal intercourse (involving vaginal penetration), anal penetration, and oral sex (especially mouth-on-genital stimulation). Sex acts may also involve other forms of genital stimulation, such as solo or mutual masturbation, which may involve rubbing or penetration by the use of fingers or hands or by a device (sex toy), such as a dildo or vibrator. The act may also involve anilingus. There are numerous sex positions that participants may adopt in any of these types of sexual intercourse or acts; some authors have argued that the number of sex positions is essentially limitless.\n\nSex manuals usually present a guide to sex positions. Sex manuals have a long history. In the Graeco-Roman era, a sex manual was written by\nPhilaenis of Samos, possibly a hetaira (courtesan) of the Hellenistic period (3rd–1st century BC). The \"Kama Sutra\" of Vatsyayana, believed to have been written in the 1st to 6th centuries, has a notorious reputation as a sex manual. Different sex positions result in differences in the depth of sexual penetration and the angle of penetration. Many attempts have been made to categorize sex positions. Alfred Kinsey categorized six primary positions, The earliest known European medieval text dedicated to sexual positions is the \"Speculum al foderi\", sometimes known as \"The Mirror of Coitus\" (or literally \"a mirror for fuckers\"), a 15th-century Catalan text discovered in the 1970s.\n\nThese positions involve the insertion of a phallic object(s) (such as a penis, strap-on dildo, plug, or other nonporous object(s)) into a vagina, anus or mouth.\n\nThe most used sex position is the missionary position. In this position, the participants face each other. The receiving partner lies on their back with legs apart, while the penetrating partner lies on top. This position and the following variations may be used for vaginal or anal intercourse.\n\n\nMost of these positions can be used for either vaginal or anal penetration. Variants of the \"doggy style\" or \"doggy position\" include:\n\nIn the \"spoons position\" both partners lie on their side, facing the same direction. Variants of this technique include the following:\n\nMost of these positions can be used for either vaginal or anal penetration.\nWhen the receiving partner is a woman, these positions are sometimes called the \"woman on top\", \"cowboy\" or \"cowgirl\" positions.\n\nA feature of these positions is that the penetrating partner lies on their back with the receiving partner on top:\n\nMost of these positions can be used for either vaginal or anal penetration.\n\nMost of these positions can be used for either vaginal or anal penetration. In the basic standing position, both partners stand facing each other. The following variations are possible:\n\nThese positions involve anal penetration: \n\nThese positions are more innovative, and perhaps not as widely known or practiced as the ones listed above.\n\n\n\n\nMost sex acts are typically performed on a bed or other simple platform. As the range of supports available increases, so does the range of positions that are possible. Ordinary furniture can be used for this purpose. Also, various forms of erotic furniture and other apparatus such as fisting slings and trapezes have been used to facilitate even more exotic sexual positions.\n\nPregnancy is a potential result of any form of sexual activity where sperm comes in contact with the vagina; this is typically during vaginal sex, but pregnancy can result from anal sex, digital sex (fingering), oral sex, or by another body part, if sperm is transferred from one area to the vagina between a fertile female and a fertile male. Men and women are typically fertile during puberty. Though certain sexual positions are believed to produce more favorable results than others, none of these are effective means of contraception.\n\nThe goal is to prevent excessive pressure on the belly and to restrict penetration as required by the particular partners. Some of the positions below are popular positions for sex during pregnancy.\n\n\nOral sex is genital stimulation by the mouth. It may be penetrative or non-penetrative, and may take place before, during, as, or following intercourse. It may also be performed simultaneously (for example, when one partner performs cunnilingus, while the other partner performs fellatio), or only one partner may perform upon the other; this creates a multitude of variations.\n\n\"Fellatio\" is oral sex performed on a penis. Possible positions include:\n\n\"Cunnilingus\" is oral sex performed on the vulva and vagina. Possible positions include:\n\nSimultaneous oral sex between two people is called \"69\". Partners may be female or male. They can lie side-by-side, lie one on top of the other, or stand with one partner holding the other upside down.\n\nPositions for \"anilingus\", also known as \"butt licking\", \"rimming\", \"anal-oral sex\", \"rimjob\", or \"tossing the salad\", are often variants on those for genital-oral sex. Anilingus can be performed in a number of sex positions including:\n\n\n\"Non-penetrative sex\" or \"frottage\" is generally sexual activity that excludes penetration, and often includes rubbing one's genitals on one's sexual partner. This may include the partner's genitals or buttocks, and can involve different sex positions. As part of foreplay or to avoid penetrative sex, people engage in a variety of non-penetrative sexual behavior, which may or may not lead to orgasm.\n\n\nThe slang term \"humping\" may refer to masturbation—thrusting one's genitals against the surface of non-sexual objects, clothed or unclothed; or it may refer to penetrative sex.\n\n\"Genital-genital rubbing\" (often termed \"GG rubbing\" by primatologists to describe the behavior among female bonobos) is the sexual act of mutually rubbing genitals; it is sometimes grouped with \"frottage\", but other terms, such as \"non-penetrative sex\" or \"outercourse\", are also used:\n\nVarious people of gender and orientation may participate in group sex. While group sex does not imply that all participants must be in sexual contact with all others simultaneously, some positions are only possible with three or more people.\n\nAs with the positions listed above, more group sex positions become practical if erotic furniture is used.\n\nWhen three people have sex with each other, it is called a \"threesome\". Possible ways of having all partners in sexual contact with each include some of the following:\n\n\nThese positions can be expanded to accommodate any number of participants:\n\nA person may be sexually penetrated multiple times simultaneously. Penetration may involve use of fingers, toes, sex toys, or penises. Scenes of multiple penetration are common in pornography.\n\nIf one person is penetrated by two objects, it is generically called \"double penetration\" (\"DP\"). Double penetration of the vagina, anus, or mouth can involve:\n\nIn 1974, Alex Comfort categorized more than 600 and Gershon Legman categorized 3,780. However, the suggestion that the number of positions that can be used for sex is essentially limitless also exists.\n\nSome people are limited by physical disabilities in the sex positions which they may use without pain or other discomfort. Other physical limitations of one or both participants also limit the sex positions which they may adopt. For example, the spoons position is recommended when either partner has back problems; the \"starfish position\" is recommended to achieve orgasms more easily and the missionary position may be uncomfortable for the receiving partner if the weight of the inserting partner, relative to the receiving partner's, is a problem. Also, the standing positions may be unsuitable if there is a significant height difference between the participants, unless the female is being carried.\n\n"}
{"id": "24645730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24645730", "title": "Shahzada Kamran Durrani", "text": "Shahzada Kamran Durrani\n\nShahzada Kamran Durrani (Persian شہزادہ کامران درانی) was born in the Sadozai dynasty. He was the son of Mahmud Shah Durrani, son of Timur Shah Durrani the son of Ahmad Shah Durrani, the founder of the Durrani Empire.\n\nIn the 18th century during the internal war when Amir Fateh Khan, brother of Amir Dost Muhammad Khan Barakzai, was brutally killed by the Shahzada Kamran Durrani and his allies. Although the elder brother of Dost Mohammad Khan Fatteh Khan, took an important part in raising Mahmud Shah Durrani to the sovereignty of Afghanistan in 1800 and in restoring him to the throne in 1809. Unfortunately Shahzada Kamran Durrani was always in trouble with Amir Fateh Khan Barakzai thus Mahmud Shah and his son accompanied by allies repaid Fateh Khan's services by having him brutally assassinated in 1818. After the assassination of Fateh Khan Barakzai the fall of the Durrani Empires begun. Thus after a bloody conflict, Mahmud Shah was deprived of all his possessions but Herat, the rest of his dominions being divided among Fatteh Khan's brothers. King Mahmud Shah Durrani died in 1829. The country was then ruled by Shuja Shah Durrani; another of his half-brothers. Some time later after the bloodshed with barakzai tribe the Kingdom of Sadozai tribe ended in Afghanistan and Amir Dost Mohammad Khan became the first king of the Barakzai Ahmadzai Durrani tribe in Afghanistan and then some Sadozai royal families by changing their names and cast thriftily migrated from Afghanistan to British Quetta. and some families refugeed in NWFP Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, present day Pakistan.\n\nSardar Nidda Khan Durrani (Aalijah) and his father Shahzada Rasheed Khan Durrani were returned to Afghanistan on the request of Amir Mohammad Ayub Khan Mohammadzai as part of Amir policy to unify the tribes through chiefs as well as to bring peace, stability and rebuild Afghanistan.\n\nAfter the bloodshed with barakzai tribe the Kingdom of Sadozai tribe ended for a while in Afghanistan some Sadduzai royal families by changing their names and cast thriftily migrated from Afghanistan to British NWFP Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and some of The Sadozai royal families migrated from Afghanistan to British Baluchistan among them were son of Shahzada Kamran Durrani, Shahzada Sardar Bismillah Khan Durrani with his son Sardar Rasheed Khan Durrani and grandson Sardar Nidda Durrani (Aalijah) with family and personal guards they stayed thriftily in a small fort of an elder of Kakar tribe in Kuchlak near British Quetta, and soon they moved to Killi Gogi Ahmandoon near Ziarat for living Sardar Nidda Durrani (Aalijah) get marriage in a family of a notable person of Kakar tribe for peacefully living. his grandfather was buried in Killi Ahmandoon. Shuja Shah Durrani become again in power and he restored again his empire on 7 August 1839 to 5 April 1842 but as part of Emirate of Afghanistan in December 1879 on the request invitation of Amir Mohammad Ayub Khan Mohammadzai Sardar Rasheed Khan Durrani and his son Sardar Nidda Durrani (Aalijah) went to Afghanistan as part of Amir policy to unify the tribes through chiefs for Sovereignty as well as to bring peace, stability and rebuild Afghanistan. In July 1880 during the Battle of Maiwand Shahzad Rasheed Khan Durrani was Martyred and buried in Afghanistan and his son Shahzada Aalijah Nidda Durrani after staying in Afghanistan came back to British India to live with his family, in 1907 Shahzada Aalijah Nidda Durrani and his son Mohammad Abdul Rahim Durrani along-with family and Grand sons Abdul Majeed Khan Durrani and Abdul Habib Durrani moved from Killi Ahmandoon Ziarat to (small Village) Killi Katheer near kuchlak, Shahzada Aalijah Nidda Durrani died in Killi Katheer and buried in Killi Katheer graveyard, soon-after his all family came to British Quetta for permanent settlement, Abdul Majeed Khan Durrani second son of Sardar Mohammad Abdul Raheem Khan Durrani went to Kalkata, India for business. After the death of Sardar Mohammad Abdul Rahim Khan Durrani his 1st son Sardar Abdul Habib Khan Durrani took control of his business. He was father of Shahzada Rehmatullah Khan Saddozai Durrani who is father of Sardar Ahmad Khan (Sadozai) Durrani Chairman Sadozai Qaumi Welfare Organization settled in Copenhagen Denmark now living in Quetta, Noor Ullah Khan Durrani (Runner-up Mr.Pakistan in body building sports 1967) settled in Harran Norway, Habibullah Khan Sadozai United Kingdom Hayatullah Khan Durrani Customs officer in FBR MCC Quetta Nasrullah Khan Durrani (retired Health officer in Quetta) Niamatullah Khan Durrani (Customs officer MCC Gwader) else more Sardarzada Abdul Rasheed Khan Durrani was son of Sardar Abdul Majeed Khan Durrani.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5791031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5791031", "title": "Shōjo", "text": "Shōjo\n\nLike most kanji compounds, the term shōjo is borrowed from Classical Chinese characters. The original term is written as \"少女\", which could be pronounced as \"shào nǚ\" in Mandarin (pinyin romanization), \"so nyŏ\" in Korean (McCune-Reischauer romanization), \"thiếu nữ\" in Vietnamese, and \"shōjo\" in Japanese (Hepburn romanization).\n\nThe earliest surviving written record of the term 少女 is on the Book of the Later Han, published in China in the 5th century, in Chapter 86, The myth of Yao, referring to young girls.\n\nIn the 7th century, the word was introduced into the Japanese language through the adoption of the Chinese-style Ritsuryō legal system, where it referred to females between the ages of 17 and 20. \n\nIn legal settings, \"shōjo\" is a subset of shōnen (meaning \"minor\") and refers to any female juvenile who has not reached the age of 20.\n\nIn Japan, the word \"shōjo\" has many applications outside of the law. It refers to anything of, for, or about school-age girls. Examples include \"shōjo manga\", \"shōjo culture\", \"shōjo\" novels, \"shōjo\" hobbies, and \"shōjo\" fashions, among others.\n\n"}
{"id": "54002869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54002869", "title": "Slovaks in Austria", "text": "Slovaks in Austria\n\nSlovaks in Austria have a history dating back to the early centuries of the Common Era. Currently, there are 35,326 Slovaks in Austria as of 2016. Large communities of Slovaks can be found in Vienna and Lower Austria, with a smaller community in Styria.\n\nBetween the fifth and ninth centuries AD, Slovaks controlled the eastern part of what is now considered Lower Austria, where many ethnic Slovaks still remain.\n\nFrom the 1880s the 1890s, around 230,000 Czechs and Slovaks emigrated to Austria proper, mainly for construction work and other menial labor jobs in the larger cities, particularly Vienna. At the turn of the century, an estimated 70,000 Slovak speakers in Austria, the vast majority being concentrated in Vienna and Marchfeld. Over the next 14 years, this number was decimated to 20,000.\n\nAfter the foundation of Czechoslovak Republic in 1918, many Slovaks emigrated back to the Slovakia region. In the 1923 census, only 5,000 Slovacophones declared their language.\n\nIn 1976, as part of the Treaties of St. German and Brno and the Austrian Ethnic Groups Act, Slovaks were recognized as an autochthonous ethnicity, and freedom to use the Slovak language officially was permitted.\n\nIn recent years, many thousands of Slovaks have emigrated from Slovakia, mainly due to the open borders of the European Union. The population of Slovaks had increased by 800% in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "30076521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30076521", "title": "Supreme Council of the Arabic language in Algeria", "text": "Supreme Council of the Arabic language in Algeria\n\nThe Supreme Council of the Arabic language in Algeria () is an advisory body to the President of the Republic of Algeria, established by Order No. 96/30 of December 21, 1996, as amended and supplemented to the law 91-05 of 16 January 1991.\n\nCouncil which has members and chaired by working to upgrade the Arabic language in Algeria and their uses.\n\nFranklin Roosevelt Street POB: 575 Didouche Mourad\nAlgiers Algeria 16 000\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8950599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8950599", "title": "Tupuri people", "text": "Tupuri people\n\nThe Tupuri are an ethnic group in Cameroon and Chad. They speak a language called Tupuri, which had 125,000 speakers in Cameroon at an unspecified date and 90,785 speakers in Chad in 1993. \n\nIn Cameroon, the Tupuri live east of Kaélé in the Kaele division and in the Kar-Hay subdivision of the Mayo-Danay division of the Far North Province. In Chad, Tupuri live near Fianga, Fianga Subprefecture, Mayo-Kebbi Prefecture in the southwest of the country. \n\nThe Tupuri are known for a dance called the \"gourna\", \"the dance of the cock\", which involves the dancers forming a circle and holding long sticks.\n\n"}
{"id": "4495200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4495200", "title": "Zardari tribe", "text": "Zardari tribe\n\nZardari is a Baloch tribe from Pakistan.\n"}
