{"id": "4037225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4037225", "title": "90 Degrees East", "text": "90 Degrees East\n\n90 Degrees East, also known as 90°E Lake, is a lake in Antarctica. With a surface area of about , it is the second-largest known subglacial lake in Antarctica, after Lake Vostok. 90 Degrees East was discovered in January 2006, along with Sovetskaya. It is named after the 90th meridian east, on which it lies.\n\n"}
{"id": "6026610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6026610", "title": "A686 road", "text": "A686 road\n\nThe A686 is a road in Northern England. It runs from Penrith in Cumbria to Haydon Bridge in Northumberland. The AA named the A686 \"One of the Greatest Drives in Britain\" owing to the dramatic scenery of the Pennines hills encountered along its route. The road is popular with motorbikers, and due to the great number of steep bends many casualties occur along the road. It was recently voted 9th best drive in the country by Top Gear.\n\nThe A686 begins at a roundabout with the A66 road and A6 road on the edge of Penrith though it originally started in nearby Carleton at a crossroads with the former route of the A66. The road heads in a north-easterly direction crossing the River Eden before going through the village of Langwathby. It continues through Melmerby and across the Pennines before reaching the isolated market town of Alston.\n\nIt meets the A689 road (to Brampton and Bishop Auckland) and then crosses the border into Northumberland. It continues past the villages of Ninebanks, Bearsbridge and Whitfield. It meets the B6305 road to Hexham, and later terminates at its junction with the A69 road just east of Haydon Bridge.\n\n"}
{"id": "5502266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5502266", "title": "Bajío", "text": "Bajío\n\nThe Bajío (\"lowlands\") is a region of West North-Central Mexico that includes parts of the states of Aguascalientes, Jalisco (Centro-Los Altos), Guanajuato, and Querétaro.\n\nThe Bajío has repeatedly been recognized as the region with the best quality of life, the safest region, and the most dynamic in Mexico, sometimes credited that in Latin America too. Nowadays, the region is a vigorous services region that is experiencing an ongoing social and economic revitalization. It is a strong business and economic centre.\nThe largest cities of Bajio are Guadalajara, León, Santiago de Querétaro and Aguascalientes.\n\nRecent archaeological studies of the Bajío have discovered an extensive, historic cultural tradition unique to the region, particularly along the flood plains of the Lerma and Laja rivers. The Bajío Culture flourished from 300 to 650CE, with cultural centers ranging from El Cóporo in the far north of Guanajuato to Plazuelas in the far south west. More than 1,400 sites have been discovered throughout the state of Guanajuato, with only the sites of Cañada de la Virgen, El Cóporo, Peralta, and Plazuelas having received extensive study. This region was also known as La Gran Chichimeca in later years. It was the epicenter of the historic Chichimeca War, the Northern Revolutionary States, and cradle of Mexican War of Independence.\n\nIn general usage, the region is usually associated with the States of Guanajuato and Querétaro, although it only forms a part of them. It is characterized by its highly mechanized agriculture, with mean precipitation in the order of per annum (one of the highest in the country). During the Viceroyalty of New Spain, the area was known as the breadbasket of the territory. As of 2014, the region produces sorghum, wheat and maize as its main crops.\n\nThe Bajío region lies in the basin of the Rio Lerma and Río Grande de Santiago.\n\nThe free and sovereign states of the Bajío are:\n\n\n\n\nToday, the region is one of the fastest-growing in the country. This has caused the metropolitan areas to attract many migrants from other parts of Mexico.\n\nThe region has had an outstanding industrial and economic development in the last 15 years. The cities of Bajío has one of the highest income per capita in Mexico.\n\nThe Bajío is home to numerous World Heritage Sites, attracting investors, tourists, and migrants.\nWorld Heritage Sites: \n\nAs of early 2014, there are more than three thousand Japanese immigrants in the Bajío area, and it's claimed that this population is larger than the historical Japanese community in Mexico City. The Guanajuato government believes that by 2016 there will be five thousand families living in the area. This immigration is being driven by foreign investment in the area, especially in the automotive sector.\n\nBy the end of 2014, it is expected that there will be 100 families settled in Querétaro. In the capital of Querétaro there are 50 Japanese restaurants, 15 of which opened in 2013, mainly in the area of Juriquilla and new shopping centers. There are also talks of the Liceo Mexicano Japonés opening a campus in Querétaro. \"Bajío Shimbun\" is a monthly, Japanese-language newspaper founded in June 2015. The first Japanese consulate in Mexico was inaugurated in January 2016 in León and will serve the Bajío region. As of 2017, there were 1,143 Japanese in Aguascalientes, 43% of all foreigners in the state.\n\nThere is also a Korean community in the area that is likewise growing as a result of foreign investment. As of 2014, it was more common to see Korean students in private schools than it was to see Japanese.\n\nThere are plans to build a high-speed rail Querétaro-Mexico City system, which would continue to Guadalajara. It would work as the main form of transportation in all the Bajío and its capital cities.\n\nThe Bajío is known for being the cradle of Mexican Independence from Spanish Empire and one of the most conservative bastions of Mexican Catholicism.\n\nThe Bajío is where in April 1915, during the Mexican Revolution, General Álvaro Obregón provoked decisive battles against Pancho Villa. Villa's troops lost in June outside Celaya.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45246737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45246737", "title": "C16 road (Namibia)", "text": "C16 road (Namibia)\n\nC16 is an untarred road in the ǁKaras Region of Namibia. It starts in Keetmanshoop and ends later in Aroab.\n"}
{"id": "57350946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57350946", "title": "Canada–United States junior ice hockey rivalry", "text": "Canada–United States junior ice hockey rivalry\n\nA highly competitive sports rivalry that exists between the national under-20 ice hockey teams of the two countries, as well as their respective sets of fans. The two countries are perennial rivals at the World Junior Championships for players under 20 years of age. Overall, Canada holds a total of 17 gold medals, while the United States holds four gold medals.\n\nOn December 29, 2017, the two teams played each other outdoors at New Era Field in Orchard Park, New York, during the 2018 World Junior Championships. The U.S. won the game 4–3 over Canada in a game-winning shootout. This was the first outdoor game held at any top-level IIHF World Championship.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5422424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5422424", "title": "Chorobates", "text": "Chorobates\n\nThe Chorobates, described by Vitruvius in Book VII of the Architecture, was used to measure horizontal planes and was especially important in the construction of aqueducts.\n\nSimilar to modern spirit levels, the Chorobates consisted of a beam of wood 6 m in length held by 2 supporting legs and equipped with 2 plumb lines at each end. The legs were joined to the beam by two diagonal rods with carved notches. If the notches corresponding to the plumb lines matched on both sides, it showed that the beam was level. On top of the beam, a groove or channel was carved. If the condition was too windy for the plumb bobs to work effectively, the surveyor could pour water into the groove and measure the plane by checking the water level.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51509", "title": "County seat", "text": "County seat\n\nA county seat is an administrative center, seat of government, or capital city of a county or civil parish. The term is used in Canada, China, Romania, Taiwan and the United States. County towns have a similar function in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland, and historically in Jamaica.\n\nIn most of the United States, counties are the political subdivisions of a state. The city, town, or populated place that houses county government is known as the seat of its respective county. Generally, the county legislature, county courthouse, sheriff's department headquarters, hall of records, jail and correctional facility are located in the county seat though some functions may also be located or conducted in other parts of the county, especially if it is geographically large.\n\nA county seat is usually, but not always, an incorporated municipality. The exceptions include the county seats of counties that have no incorporated municipalities within their borders, such as Arlington County, Virginia (where the county seat is the entire county). Ellicott City, the county seat of Howard County, is the largest unincorporated county seat in the United States, followed by Towson, the county seat of Baltimore County, Maryland. Likewise, some county seats may not be incorporated in their own right, but are located within incorporated municipalities. For example, Cape May Court House, New Jersey, though unincorporated, is a section of Middle Township, an incorporated municipality. In some of the colonial states, county seats include or formerly included \"Court House\" as part of their name, (e.g. Spotsylvania Courthouse, Virginia).\n\nCounty seats in Taiwan are the administrative centers of the counties. Currently there are 13 county seats in Taiwan, which are in the forms of county-administered city, urban township or rural township.\n\nMost counties have only one county seat. However, some counties in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Iowa, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Missouri, New Hampshire, and Vermont have two or more county seats, usually located on opposite sides of the county. An example is Harrison County, Mississippi, which lists both Biloxi and Gulfport as county seats. The practice of multiple county seat towns dates from the days when travel was difficult. There have been few efforts to eliminate the two-seat arrangement, since a county seat is a source of pride (and jobs) for the towns involved.\n\nThere are 36 counties with multiple county seats (no more than two each) in 11 states:\n\nIn New England, the town, not the county, is the primary division of local government. Historically, counties in this region have served mainly as dividing lines for the states' judicial systems. Connecticut (since 1960) and Rhode Island have no county level of government and thus no county seats. In Vermont, Massachusetts, and Maine the county seats are legally designated \"shire towns\". County government consists only of a Superior Court and Sheriff (as an officer of the court), both located in the respective shire town. Bennington County has two shire towns (Manchester for the \"North Shire\", Bennington for the \"South Shire\"), but the Sheriff is located in Bennington. In Massachusetts, most government functions which would otherwise be performed by county governments in other states are performed by town or city governments (there are no unincorporated areas in the state; that is, all land area in the state is within either a town or a city). As such, Massachusetts has dissolved many of its county governments, and the state government now operates the registries of deeds and sheriff's offices in those counties.\n\nIn Virginia, a county seat may be an independent city surrounded by, but not part of, the county of which it is the administrative center; for example, Fairfax City is both the county seat of Fairfax County and is completely surrounded by Fairfax County, but the city is politically independent of the county.\n\nTwo counties in South Dakota (Oglala Lakota and Todd) have their county seat and government services centered in a neighboring county. Their county-level services are provided by Fall River County and Tripp County, respectively.\n\nIn Louisiana, which is divided into parishes rather than counties, county seats are referred to as \"parish seats\".\n\nAlaska is divided into boroughs rather than counties; the county seat in these case is referred to as the \"borough seat\"; this includes six consolidated city-borough governments (one of which is styled as a \"municipality\"). The Unorganized Borough, which covers 49% of Alaska's area, has no county seat or equivalent.\n\nIn the state of Vermont and the Canadian provinces of Prince Edward Island, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia, the term \"shire town\" is used in place of county seat.\n\nThe state with the most counties is Texas, with 254, and the state with the fewest counties is Delaware, with 3.\n\n"}
{"id": "33464417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33464417", "title": "Daylight saving time in Canada", "text": "Daylight saving time in Canada\n\nDaylight saving time (DST) is observed in all ten Canadian provinces and three territories. However, there are exceptions within several provinces and the territory of Nunavut, including most of Saskatchewan, which observes Central Standard Time year-round even though the province is in the Mountain Zone, effectively putting it on DST year-round. Under the Canadian Constitution, laws related to timekeeping are a purely provincial or territorial matter.\n\nIn regions where daylight saving time is used, it commences on the second Sunday of March, and standard time restarts on the first Sunday in November. Daylight saving time lasts for a total of 34 weeks (238 days) every year, about 65% of the entire year.\n\nPort Arthur, Ontario, was the first municipality in the world to enact DST, on July 1, 1908.\n\nFive Canadian cities, by local ordinance, used daylight saving time before 1918: Brandon, Manitoba and Winnipeg, Manitoba (already in 1916) as well as Halifax, Nova Scotia, Hamilton, Ontario, and Montreal, Quebec. St. John's, Newfoundland (now Newfoundland and Labrador), which did not become part of Canada until 1949, also used DST before 1918.\n\nIn practice, since the late 1960s DST across Canada has been closely or completely synchronized with its observance in the United States to facilitate consistent economic and social interaction. When the United States extended DST in 1987 to the first Sunday in April, all DST-observing Canadian jurisdictions followed suit to mimic the change.\n\nThe latest United States change (Energy Policy Act of 2005), adding parts of March and November starting in 2007, was adopted by the various provinces and territories on the following dates:\n\nMost of British Columbia (BC) is on Pacific Time and observes DST. However, there are two main exceptions:\n\n\nWhile the rest of Nunavut observes DST, Southampton Island including Coral Harbour remain on Eastern Standard Time throughout the year. The Kitikmeot Region including Cambridge Bay observes DST but is on Mountain Time. Eureka, Nunavut, a permanent research station on Ellesmere Island, also stays on Eastern Standard Time throughout the year.\n\nMost of Ontario uses DST. Pickle Lake, Atikokan and New Osnaburgh, three communities located within the Central Time Zone in northwestern Ontario, observe Eastern Standard Time all year long.\n\nMost of Quebec observes DST. However, the eastern reaches of Quebec's North Shore, east of 63° west longitude, are in the Atlantic Time Zone, but do not observe DST (see exception, below). The effect is that in summer their clocks match those of the rest of the province, while in November, their clocks are rejoined by their Atlantic Standard Time neighbours. Although places east of 63° west are officially on Atlantic Time, local custom is to use Eastern Time as far east as the Natashquan River. Those communities observe DST, including all of Anticosti Island, which is bisected by the 63rd meridian.\n\nThe Magdalen Islands observe Atlantic Time including DST.\n\nAlthough the entire province is geographically within the MST (UTC-7) zone, the province is officially part of the Central time zone (UTC-6). As a result, while most of Saskatchewan does not change clocks spring and fall, it technically observes DST year round. This means that clocks in most of the province match clocks in Winnipeg during the winter and Calgary and Edmonton during the summer. This time zone designation was implemented in 1966, when the Saskatchewan Time Act was passed in order to standardize time province-wide.\n\nThe charter of the city of Lloydminster, which is bisected by the Saskatchewan–Alberta boundary, gives it a special exemption. Lloydminster and the immediately surrounding region in Saskatchewan observe Mountain Time year-round, with officially sanctioned seasonal daylight saving time (which in the summer, puts it in sync with the rest of Saskatchewan). This is to keep clocks on the Saskatchewan side in sync with those on the Alberta side; Alberta mandates the use of daylight saving time province-wide. Along the Manitoba border, the small, remote Saskatchewan towns of Denare Beach and Creighton unofficially observe Central Daylight Time during the summer, thereby keeping the same time as larger neighbouring Manitoba communities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7837842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7837842", "title": "Districts of Laos", "text": "Districts of Laos\n\nLaos is divided into 16 provinces (Lao: ແຂວງ, \"khoueng\") and 1 prefecture (\"kampheng nakhon\") plus capital city municipality (ນະຄອນຫລວງ, \"nakhon luang\"). Furthermore, 1 so-called special administrative zone (ເຂດພິເສດ, \"khet phiset\") existed between 1994 and 2006, when it was re-merged into its surrounding provinces (i.e. Vientiane and Xiangkhoang). Each province is subdivided into districts (Lao: ເມືອງ, \"mueang\") and then subdivided into villages (Lao: ບ້ານ, \"baan\").\n\n"}
{"id": "177694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177694", "title": "Ecological economics", "text": "Ecological economics\n\nEcological economics (also called eco-economics, ecolonomy or bioeconomics of Georgescu-Roegen) is both a transdisciplinary and an interdisciplinary field of academic research addressing the interdependence and coevolution of human economies and natural ecosystems, both intertemporally and spatially. By treating the economy as a subsystem of Earth's larger ecosystem, and by emphasizing the preservation of natural capital, the field of ecological economics is differentiated from environmental economics, which is the mainstream economic analysis of the environment. One survey of German economists found that ecological and environmental economics are different schools of economic thought, with ecological economists emphasizing strong sustainability and rejecting the proposition that natural capital can be substituted by human-made capital (see the section on Weak versus strong sustainability below).\n\nEcological economics was founded in the 1980s as a modern discipline on the works of and interactions between various European and American academics (see the section on History and development below). The related field of green economics is, in general, a more politically applied form of the subject.\n\nAccording to ecological economist , ecological economics is defined by its focus on nature, justice, and time. Issues of intergenerational equity, irreversibility of environmental change, uncertainty of long-term outcomes, and sustainable development guide ecological economic analysis and valuation. Ecological economists have questioned fundamental mainstream economic approaches such as cost-benefit analysis, and the separability of economic values from scientific research, contending that economics is unavoidably normative rather than positive (i.e. descriptive). Positional analysis, which attempts to incorporate time and justice issues, is proposed as an alternative. Ecological economics shares several of its perspectives with feminist economics, including the focus on sustainability, nature, justice and care values.\n\nThe antecedents of ecological economics can be traced back to the Romantics of the 19th century as well as some Enlightenment political economists of that era. Concerns over population were expressed by Thomas Malthus, while John Stuart Mill predicted the desirability of the \"stationary state\" of an economy. Mill thereby anticipated later insights of modern ecological economists, but without having had their experience of the social and ecological costs of the Post–World War II economic expansion. In 1880, Marxian economist Sergei Podolinsky attempted to theorize a labor theory of value based on embodied energy; his work was read and critiqued by Marx and Engels. \n\nThe debate on energy in economic systems can also be traced back to Nobel prize-winning radiochemist Frederick Soddy (1877–1956). In his book \"Wealth, Virtual Wealth and Debt\" (1926), Soddy criticized the prevailing belief of the economy as a perpetual motion machine, capable of generating infinite wealth—a criticism expanded upon by later ecological economists such as Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen and Herman Daly.\n\nEuropean predecessors of ecological economics include K. William Kapp (1950) Karl Polanyi (1944), and Romanian economist Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen (1971). Georgescu-Roegen, who would later mentor Herman Daly at Vanderbilt University, provided ecological economics with a modern conceptual framework based on the material and energy flows of economic production and consumption. His \"magnum opus\", \"The Entropy Law and the Economic Process\" (1971), is credited by Daly as a fundamental text of the field, alongside Soddy's \"Wealth, Virtual Wealth and Debt\". Some key concepts of what is now ecological economics are evident in the writings of Kenneth Boulding and E.F. Schumacher, whose book \"Small Is Beautiful – A Study of Economics as if People Mattered\" (1973) was published just a few years before the first edition of Herman Daly's comprehensive and persuasive \"Steady-State Economics\" (1977). \n\nThe first organized meetings of ecological economists occurred in the 1980s. These began in 1982, at the instigation of Lois Banner, with a meeting held in Sweden (including Robert Costanza, Herman Daly, Charles Hall, Bruce Hannon, H.T. Odum, and David Pimentel). Most were ecosystem ecologists or mainstream environmental economists, with the exception of Daly. In 1987, Daly and Costanza edited an issue of \"Ecological Modeling\" to test the waters. A book entitled \"Ecological Economics\", by Juan Martinez-Alier, was published later that year. 1989 saw the foundation of the International Society for Ecological Economics and publication of its journal, \"Ecological Economics\", by Elsevier. Robert Costanza was the first president of the society and first editor of the journal, which is currently edited by Richard Howarth. Other figures include ecologists C.S. Holling and H.T. Odum, biologist Gretchen Daily, and physicist Robert Ayres. In the Marxian tradition, sociologist John Bellamy Foster and CUNY geography professor David Harvey explicitly center ecological concerns in political economy.\n\nArticles by Inge Ropke (2004, 2005) and Clive Spash (1999) cover the development and modern history of ecological economics and explain its differentiation from resource and environmental economics, as well as some of the controversy between American and European schools of thought. An article by Robert Costanza, David Stern, Lining He, and Chunbo Ma responded to a call by Mick Common to determine the foundational literature of ecological economics by using citation analysis to examine which books and articles have had the most influence on the development of the field. However, citations analysis has itself proven controversial and similar work has been criticized by Clive Spash for attempting to pre-determine what is regarded as influential in ecological economics through study design and data manipulation. In addition, the journal Ecological Economics has itself been criticized for swamping the field with mainstream economics.\n\nA simple circular flow of income diagram is replaced in ecological economics by a more complex flow diagram reflecting the input of solar energy, which sustains natural inputs and environmental services which are then used as units of production. Once consumed, natural inputs pass out of the economy as pollution and waste. The potential of an environment to provide services and materials is referred to as an \"environment's source function\", and this function is depleted as resources are consumed or pollution contaminates the resources. The \"sink function\" describes an environment's ability to absorb and render harmless waste and pollution: when waste output exceeds the limit of the sink function, long-term damage occurs. Some persistent pollutants, such as some organic pollutants and nuclear waste are absorbed very slowly or not at all; ecological economists emphasize minimizing \"cumulative pollutants\". Pollutants affect human health and the health of the ecosystem.\n\nThe economic value of natural capital and ecosystem services is accepted by mainstream environmental economics, but is emphasized as especially important in ecological economics. Ecological economists may begin by estimating how to maintain a stable environment before assessing the cost in dollar terms. Ecological economist Robert Costanza led an attempted valuation of the global ecosystem in 1997. Initially published in \"Nature\", the article concluded on $33 trillion with a range from $16 trillion to $54 trillion (in 1997, total global GDP was $27 trillion). Half of the value went to nutrient cycling. The open oceans, continental shelves, and estuaries had the highest total value, and the highest per-hectare values went to estuaries, swamps/floodplains, and seagrass/algae beds. The work was criticized by articles in \"Ecological Economics\" Volume 25, Issue 1, but the critics acknowledged the positive potential for economic valuation of the global ecosystem.\n\nThe Earth's carrying capacity is a central issue in ecological economics. Early economists such as Thomas Malthus pointed out the finite carrying capacity of the earth, which was also central to the MIT study \"Limits to Growth\". Diminishing returns suggest that productivity increases will slow if major technological progress is not made. Food production may become a problem, as erosion, an impending water crisis, and soil salinity (from irrigation) reduce the productivity of agriculture. Ecological economists argue that industrial agriculture, which exacerbates these problems, is not sustainable agriculture, and are generally inclined favorably to organic farming, which also reduces the output of carbon.\n\nGlobal wild fisheries are believed to have peaked and begun a decline, with valuable habitat such as estuaries in critical condition. The aquaculture or farming of piscivorous fish, like salmon, does not help solve the problem because they need to be fed products from other fish. Studies have shown that salmon farming has major negative impacts on wild salmon, as well as the forage fish that need to be caught to feed them.\n\nSince animals are higher on the trophic level, they are less efficient sources of food energy. Reduced consumption of meat would reduce the demand for food, but as nations develop, they tend to adopt high-meat diets similar to that of the United States. Genetically modified food (GMF) a conventional solution to the problem, presents numerous problems – Bt corn produces its own Bacillus thuringiensis toxin/protein, but the pest resistance is believed to be only a matter of time. The overall effect of GMF on yields is contentious, with the USDA and FAO acknowledging that GMFs do not necessarily have higher yields and may even have reduced yields.\n\nGlobal warming is now widely acknowledged as a major issue, with all national scientific academies expressing agreement on the importance of the issue. As the population growth intensifies and energy demand increases, the world faces an energy crisis. Some economists and scientists forecast a global ecological crisis if energy use is not contained – the Stern report is an example. The disagreement has sparked a vigorous debate on issue of discounting and intergenerational equity.\n\nMainstream economics has attempted to become a value-free 'hard science', but ecological economists argue that value-free economics is generally not realistic. Ecological economics is more willing to entertain alternative conceptions of utility, efficiency, and cost-benefits such as positional analysis or multi-criteria analysis. Ecological economics is typically viewed as economics for sustainable development, and may have goals similar to green politics.\n\nIn international, regional, and national policy circles, the concept of the \"green economy\" grew in popularity as a response to the financial predicament at first then became a vehicle for growth and development.\n\nThe \"United Nations Environment Program\" (UNEP) defines a ‘green economy’ as one that focuses on the human aspects and natural influences and an economic order that can generate high-salary jobs. In 2011, its definition was further developed as the word ‘green’ is made to refer to an economy that is not only resourceful and well-organized but also impartial, guaranteeing an objective shift to an economy that is low-carbon, resource-efficient, and socially-inclusive.\n\nThe ideas and studies regarding the green economy denote a fundamental shift for more effective, resourceful, environment-friendly and resource‐saving technologies that could lessen emissions and alleviate the adverse consequences of climate change, at the same time confront issues about resource exhaustion and grave environmental dilapidation.\n\nAs an indispensable requirement and vital precondition to realizing sustainable development, the Green Economy adherents robustly promote good governance. To boost local investments and foreign ventures, it is crucial to have a constant and foreseeable macroeconomic atmosphere. Likewise, such an environment will also need to be transparent and accountable. In the absence of a substantial and solid governance structure, the prospect of shifting towards a sustainable development route would be insignificant. In achieving a green economy, competent institutions and governance systems are vital in guaranteeing the efficient execution of strategies, guidelines, campaigns, and programmes. \n\nShifting to a Green Economy demands a fresh mindset and an innovative outlook of doing business. It likewise necessitates new capacities, skills set from labor and professionals who can competently function across sectors, and able to work as effective components within multi-disciplinary teams. To achieve this goal, vocational training packages must be developed with focus on greening the sectors. Simultaneously, the educational system needs to be assessed as well in order to fit in the environmental and social considerations of various disciplines.\n\nVarious competing schools of thought exist in the field. Some are close to resource and environmental economics while others are far more heterodox in outlook. An example of the latter is the \"European Society for Ecological Economics\". An example of the former is the Swedish \"Beijer International Institute of Ecological Economics.\" Clive Spash has argued for the classification of the ecological economics movement, and more generally work by different economic schools on the environment, into three main categories. These are the mainstream new resource economists, the new environmental pragmatists, and the more radical social ecological economists. International survey work comparing the relevance of the categories for mainstream and heterodox economists shows some clear divisions between environmental and ecological economists.\n\nSome ecological economists prioritise adding natural capital to the typical capital asset analysis of land, labor, and financial capital. These ecological economists then use tools from mathematical economics as in mainstream economics, but may apply them more closely to the natural world. Whereas mainstream economists tend to be technological optimists, ecological economists are inclined to be technological sceptics. They reason that the natural world has a limited carrying capacity and that its resources may run out. Since destruction of important environmental resources could be practically irreversible and catastrophic, ecological economists are inclined to justify cautionary measures based on the precautionary principle.\n\nThe most cogent example of how the different theories treat similar assets is tropical rainforest ecosystems, most obviously the Yasuni region of Ecuador. While this area has substantial deposits of bitumen it is also one of the most diverse ecosystems on Earth and some estimates establish it has over 200 undiscovered medical substances in its genomes - most of which would be destroyed by logging the forest or mining the bitumen. Effectively, the instructional capital of the genomes is undervalued by analyses which view the rainforest primarily as a source of wood, oil/tar and perhaps food. Increasingly the carbon credit for leaving the extremely carbon-intensive (\"dirty\") bitumen in the ground is also valued - the government of Ecuador set a price of US$350M for an oil lease with the intent of selling it to someone committed to never exercising it at all and instead preserving the rainforest.\n\nWhile this natural capital and ecosystems services approach has proven popular amongst many it has also been contested as failing to address the underlying problems with mainstream economics, growth, market capitalism and monetary valuation of the environment. Critiques concern the need to create a more meaningful relationship with Nature and the non-human world than evident in the instrumentalism of shallow ecology and the environmental economists commodification of everything external to the market system.\n\nAmong the topics addressed by ecological economics are methodology, allocation of resources, weak versus strong sustainability, energy economics, energy accounting and balance, environmental services, cost shifting, and modeling.\n\nA primary objective of ecological economics (EE) is to ground economic thinking and practice in physical reality, especially in the laws of physics (particularly the laws of thermodynamics) and in knowledge of biological systems. It accepts as a goal the improvement of human well-being through development, and seeks to ensure achievement of this through planning for the sustainable development of ecosystems and societies. Of course the terms development and sustainable development are far from lacking controversy. Richard B. Norgaard argues traditional economics has hi-jacked the development terminology in his book \"Development Betrayed\".\n\nWell-being in ecological economics is also differentiated from welfare as found in mainstream economics and the 'new welfare economics' from the 1930s which informs resource and environmental economics. This entails a limited preference utilitarian conception of value i.e., Nature is valuable to our economies, that is because people will pay for its services such as clean air, clean water, encounters with wilderness, etc.\n\nEcological economics is distinguishable from neoclassical economics primarily by its assertion that the economy is embedded within an environmental system. Ecology deals with the energy and matter transactions of life and the Earth, and the human economy is by definition contained within this system. Ecological economists argue that neoclassical economics has ignored the environment, at best considering it to be a subset of the human economy.\n\nThe neoclassical view ignores much of what the natural sciences have taught us about the contributions of nature to the creation of wealth e.g., the planetary endowment of scarce matter and energy, along with the complex and biologically diverse ecosystems that provide goods and ecosystem services directly to human communities: micro- and macro-climate regulation, water recycling, water purification, storm water regulation, waste absorption, food and medicine production, pollination, protection from solar and cosmic radiation, the view of a starry night sky, etc.\n\nThere has then been a move to regard such things as natural capital and ecosystems functions as goods and services. However, this is far from uncontroversial within ecology or ecological economics due to the potential for narrowing down values to those found in mainstream economics and the danger of merely regarding Nature as a commodity. This has been referred to as ecologists 'selling out on Nature'. There is then a concern that ecological economics has failed to learn from the extensive literature in environmental ethics about how to structure a plural value system.\n\nResource and neoclassical economics focus primarily on the efficient allocation of resources and less on the two other problems of importance to ecological economics: distribution (equity), and the scale of the economy relative to the ecosystems upon which it relies. Ecological economics makes a clear distinction between growth (quantitative increase in economic output) and development (qualitative improvement of the quality of life), while arguing that neoclassical economics confuses the two. Ecological economists point out that beyond modest levels, increased per-capita consumption (the typical economic measure of \"standard of living\") may not always lead to improvement in human well-being, but may have harmful effects on the environment and broader societal well-being. This situation is sometimes referred to as uneconomic growth (see diagram above).\n\nEcological economics challenges the conventional approach towards natural resources, claiming that it undervalues natural capital by considering it as interchangeable with human-made capital—labor and technology.\n\nThe impending depletion of natural resources and increase of climate-changing greenhouse gasses should motivate us to examine how political, economic and social policies can benefit from alternative energy. Shifting dependence on fossil fuels with specific interest within just one of the above-mentioned factors easily benefits at least one other. For instance, photo voltaic (or solar) panels have a 15% efficiency when absorbing the sun's energy, but its construction demand has increased 120% within both commercial and residential properties. Additionally, this construction has led to a roughly 30% increase in work demands (Chen).\n\nThe potential for the substitution of man-made capital for natural capital is an important debate in ecological economics and the economics of sustainability.\nThere is a continuum of views among economists between the strongly neoclassical positions of Robert Solow and Martin Weitzman, at one extreme and the 'entropy pessimists', notably Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen and Herman Daly, at the other.\n\nNeoclassical economists tend to maintain that man-made capital can, in principle, replace all types of natural capital. This is known as the weak sustainability view, essentially that every technology can be improved upon or replaced by innovation, and that there is a substitute for any and all scarce materials.\n\nAt the other extreme, the strong sustainability view argues that the stock of natural resources and ecological functions are irreplaceable. From the premises of strong sustainability, it follows that economic policy has a fiduciary responsibility to the greater ecological world, and that sustainable development must therefore take a different approach to valuing natural resources and ecological functions.\n\nRecently, Stanislav Shmelev developed a new methodology for the assessment of progress at the macro scale based on multi-criteria methods, which allows consideration of different perspectives, including strong and weak sustainability or conservationists vs industrialists and aims to search for a 'middle way' by providing a strong neo-Keynesian economic push without putting excessive pressure on the natural resources, including water or producing emissions, both directly and indirectly.\n\nA key concept of energy economics is net energy gain, which recognizes that all energy requires energy to produce. To be useful the energy return on energy invested (\"EROEI\") has to be greater than one. The net energy gain from production coal, oil and gas has declined over time as the easiest to produce sources have been most heavily depleted.\n\nEcological economics generally rejects the view of energy economics that growth in the energy supply is related directly to well being, focusing instead on biodiversity and creativity - or natural capital and individual capital, in the terminology sometimes adopted to describe these economically. In practice, ecological economics focuses primarily on the key issues of uneconomic growth and quality of life. Ecological economists are inclined to acknowledge that much of what is important in human well-being is not analyzable from a strictly economic standpoint and suggests an interdisciplinary approach combining social and natural sciences as a means to address this.\n\nThermoeconomics is based on the proposition that the role of energy in biological evolution should be defined and understood through the second law of thermodynamics, but also in terms of such economic criteria as productivity, efficiency, and especially the costs and benefits (or profitability) of the various mechanisms for capturing and utilizing available energy to build biomass and do work. As a result, thermoeconomics is often discussed in the field of ecological economics, which itself is related to the fields of sustainability and sustainable development.\n\nExergy analysis is performed in the field of industrial ecology to use energy more efficiently. The term \"exergy\", was coined by Zoran Rant in 1956, but the concept was developed by J. Willard Gibbs. In recent decades, utilization of exergy has spread outside of physics and engineering to the fields of industrial ecology, ecological economics, systems ecology, and energetics.\n\nAn energy balance can be used to track energy through a system, and is a very useful tool for determining resource use and environmental impacts, using the First and Second laws of thermodynamics, to determine how much energy is needed at each point in a system, and in what form that energy is a cost in various environmental issues. The energy accounting system keeps track of energy in, energy out, and non-useful energy versus work done, and transformations within the system.\n\nScientists have written and speculated on different aspects of energy accounting.\n\nEcological economists agree that ecosystems produce enormous flows of goods and services to human beings, playing a key role in producing well-being. At the same time, there is intense debate about how and when to place values on these benefits.\n\nA study was carried out by Costanza and colleagues to determine the 'value' of the services provided by the environment. This was determined by averaging values obtained from a range of studies conducted in very specific context and then transferring these without regard to that context. Dollar figures were averaged to a per hectare number for different types of ecosystem e.g. wetlands, oceans. A total was then produced which came out at 33 trillion US dollars (1997 values), more than twice the total GDP of the world at the time of the study. This study was criticized by pre-ecological and even some environmental economists - for being inconsistent with assumptions of financial capital valuation - and ecological economists - for being inconsistent with an ecological economics focus on biological and physical indicators.\n\nThe whole idea of treating ecosystems as goods and services to be valued in monetary terms remains controversial. A common objection is that life is precious or priceless, but this demonstrably degrades to it being worthless within cost-benefit analysis and other standard economic methods. Reducing human bodies to financial values is a necessary part of mainstream economics and not always in the direct terms of insurance or wages. Economics, in principle, assumes that conflict is reduced by agreeing on voluntary contractual relations and prices instead of simply fighting or coercing or tricking others into providing goods or services. In doing so, a provider agrees to surrender time and take bodily risks and other (reputation, financial) risks. Ecosystems are no different from other bodies economically except insofar as they are far less replaceable than typical labour or commodities.\n\nDespite these issues, many ecologists and conservation biologists are pursuing ecosystem valuation. Biodiversity measures in particular appear to be the most promising way to reconcile financial and ecological values, and there are many active efforts in this regard. The growing field of biodiversity finance began to emerge in 2008 in response to many specific proposals such as the Ecuadoran Yasuni proposal or similar ones in the Congo. US news outlets treated the stories as a \"threat\" to \"drill a park\" reflecting a previously dominant view that NGOs and governments had the primary responsibility to protect ecosystems. However Peter Barnes and other commentators have recently argued that a guardianship/trustee/commons model is far more effective and takes the decisions out of the political realm.\n\nCommodification of other ecological relations as in carbon credit and direct payments to farmers to preserve ecosystem services are likewise examples that enable private parties to play more direct roles protecting biodiversity, but is also controversial in ecological economics. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization achieved near-universal agreement in 2008 that such payments directly valuing ecosystem preservation and encouraging permaculture were the only practical way out of a food crisis. The holdouts were all English-speaking countries that export GMOs and promote \"free trade\" agreements that facilitate their own control of the world transport network: The US, UK, Canada and Australia.\n\nEcological economics is founded upon the view that the neoclassical economics (NCE) assumption that environmental and community costs and benefits are mutually canceling \"externalities\" is not warranted. Joan Martinez Alier, for instance shows that the bulk of consumers are automatically excluded from having an impact upon the prices of commodities, as these consumers are future generations who have not been born yet. The assumptions behind future discounting, which assume that future goods will be cheaper than present goods, has been criticized by David Pearce and by the recent Stern Report (although the Stern report itself does employ discounting and has been criticized for this and other reasons by ecological economists such as Clive Spash).\n\nConcerning these externalities, some like the eco-businessman Paul Hawken argue an orthodox economic line that the only reason why goods produced unsustainably are usually cheaper than goods produced sustainably is due to a hidden subsidy, paid by the non-monetized human environment, community or future generations. These arguments are developed further by Hawken, Amory and Hunter Lovins to promote their vision of an environmental capitalist utopia in \"\".\n\nIn contrast, ecological economists, like Joan Martinez-Alier, appeal to a different line of reasoning. Rather than assuming some (new) form of capitalism is the best way forward, an older ecological economic critique questions the very idea of internalizing externalities as providing some corrective to the current system. The work by Karl William Kapp explains why the concept of \"externality\" is a misnomer. In fact the modern business enterprise operates on the basis of shifting costs onto others as normal practice to make profits. Charles Eisenstein has argued that this method of privatising profits while socialising the costs through externalities, passing the costs to the community, to the natural environment or to future generations is inherently destructive. As social ecological economist Clive Spash has noted, externality theory fallaciously assumes environmental and social problems are minor aberrations in an otherwise perfectly functioning efficient economic system. Internalizing the odd externality does nothing to address the structural systemic problem and fails to recognize the all pervasive nature of these supposed 'externalities'.\n\nMathematical modeling is a powerful tool that is used in ecological economic analysis. Various approaches and techniques include: evolutionary, input-output, neo-Austrian modeling, entropy and thermodynamic models, multi-criteria, and agent-based modeling, the environmental Kuznets curve, and Stock-Flow consistent model frameworks. System dynamics and GIS are techniques applied, among other, to spatial dynamic landscape simulation modeling. The Matrix accounting methods of Christian Felber provide a more sophisticated method for identifying \"the common good\"\n\nAssigning monetary value to natural resources such as biodiversity, and the emergent ecosystem services is often viewed as a key process in influencing economic practices, policy, and decision-making. While this idea is becoming more and more accepted among ecologists and conservationist, some argue that it is inherently false.\nMcCauley argues that ecological economics and the resulting ecosystem service based conservation can be harmful. He describes four main problems with this approach:\n\nFirstly, it seems to be assumed that all ecosystem services are financially beneficial. This is undermined by a basic characteristic of ecosystems: they do not act specifically in favour of any single species. While certain services might be very useful to us, such as coastal protection from hurricanes by mangroves for example, others might cause financial or personal harm, such as wolves hunting cattle. The complexity of Eco-systems makes it challenging to weigh up the value of a given species. Wolves play a critical role in regulating prey populations; the absence of such an apex predator in the Scottish Highlands has caused the over population of deer, preventing afforestation, which increases the risk of flooding and damage to property.\nSecondly, allocating monetary value to nature would make its conservation reliant on markets that fluctuate. This can lead to devaluation of services that were previously considered financially beneficial. Such is the case of the bees in a forest near former coffee plantations in Finca Santa Fe, Costa Rica. The pollination services were valued to over US$60,000 a year, but soon after the study, coffee prices dropped and the fields were replanted with pineapple. Pineapple does not require bees to be pollinated, so the value of their service dropped to zero.\n\nThirdly, conservation programmes for the sake of financial benefit underestimate human ingenuity to invent and replace ecosystem services by artificial means. McCauley argues that such proposals are deemed to have a short lifespan as the history of technology is about how Humanity developed artificial alternatives to nature’s services and with time passing the cost of such services tend to decrease. This would also lead to the devaluation of ecosystem services.\n\nLastly, it should not be assumed that conserving ecosystems is always financially beneficial as opposed to alteration. In the case of the introduction of the Nile perch to Lake Victoria, the ecological consequence was decimation of native fauna. However, this same event is praised by the local communities as they gain significant financial benefits from trading the fish.\n\nMcCauley argues that, for these reasons, trying to convince decision-makers to conserve nature for monetary reasons is not the path to be followed, and instead appealing to morality is the ultimate way to campaign for the protection of nature.\n\n\n\nSchools and institutes:\n\nEnvironmental data:\n\nMiscellaneous:\n"}
{"id": "33879506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33879506", "title": "Ecomuseum Zoo", "text": "Ecomuseum Zoo\n\nThe Ecomuseum Zoo () is a Canadian zoological park in Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue, Quebec and was founded in 1988. It is accredited by the Canadian Association of Zoos and Aquariums (CAZA). It occupies of land on the western tip of the Island of Montreal.\n\nThe Ecomuseum is home to 115 different species of animal native to the Saint Lawrence Valley in southwestern Quebec. The Ecomuseum is operated by the \"Saint-Lawrence Valley Natural History Society\" and opened in 1988.\n\nDr. John Roger Bider founded the St. Lawrence Valley Natural History Society in 1981 to help educate children about the environment. In 1988, the society opened the Ecomuseum on of land that had originally been wetland, but had then been used in the 1960s as landfill.\n\nThe first education programs on the site were offered in 1989. The first building on the site, for administration and education, was opened in 1992. Ecomuseum opened in the winter for the first time in 1996.\n"}
{"id": "38260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38260", "title": "Epirus", "text": "Epirus\n\nEpirus () is a geographical and historical region in southeastern Europe, now shared between Greece and Albania. It lies between the Pindus Mountains and the Ionian Sea, stretching from the Bay of Vlorë and the Acroceraunian mountains in the north to the Ambracian Gulf and the ruined Roman city of Nicopolis in the south. It is currently divided between the region of Epirus in northwestern Greece and the counties of Gjirokastër, Vlorë, and Berat in southern Albania. The largest city in Epirus is Ioannina, seat of the region of Epirus, with Gjirokastër the largest city in the Albanian part of Epirus.\n\nA rugged and mountainous region, Epirus was the north-west area of ancient Greece. It was inhabited by the Greek tribes of the Chaonians, Molossians, and Thesprotians, and home to the sanctuary of Dodona, the oldest ancient Greek oracle, and the most prestigious one after Delphi. Unified into a single state in 370 BC by the Aeacidae dynasty, Epirus achieved fame during the reign of Pyrrhus of Epirus, whose campaigns against Rome are the origin of the term \"Pyrrhic victory\". Epirus subsequently became part of the Roman Empire along with the rest of Greece in 146 BC, which was followed by the Byzantine Empire.\n\nFollowing the fall of Constantinople to the Fourth Crusade, Epirus became the center of the Despotate of Epirus, one of the successor states to the Byzantine Empire. Conquered by the Ottoman Empire in the 15th century, Epirus became semi-independent during the rule of Ali Pasha in the early 19th century, but the Ottomans re-asserted their control in 1821. Following the Balkan Wars and World War I, southern Epirus became part of Greece, while northern Epirus became part of Albania.\n\nThe name \"Epirus\" is derived from the , \"Ḗpeiros\" (Doric: , \"Ápeiros\"), meaning \"mainland\" or \"terra firma\". It is thought to come from an Indo-European root \"<nowiki>*</nowiki>apero-\" 'coast', and was originally applied to the mainland opposite Corfu and the Ionian islands. The local name was stamped on the coinage of the unified Epirote commonwealth: ΑΠΕΙΡΩΤΑΝ (, \"Āpeirōtân\", Attic: , \"Ēpeirōtôn\", i.e. \"of the Epirotes\", see image right). The Albanian name for the region, which derives from the Greek, is \"Epiri\".\n\nThe historical region of Epirus is generally regarded as extending from the northern end of the Ceraunian mountains (modern Llogara in Albania), located just south of the Bay of Aulon (modern Vlorë), to the Ambracian Gulf (or Gulf of Arta) in Greece. The northern boundary of ancient Epirus is alternatively given as the mouth of the Aoös (or Vjosë) river, immediately to the north of the Bay of Vlorë. Epirus's eastern boundary is defined by the Pindus Mountains, that form the spine of mainland Greece and separate Epirus from Macedonia and Thessaly. To the west, Epirus faces the Ionian Sea. The island of Corfu is situated off the Epirote coast but is not regarded as part of Epirus.\n\nThe definition of Epirus has changed over time, such that modern administrative boundaries do not correspond to the boundaries of ancient Epirus. The region of Epirus in Greece only comprises a fraction of classical Epirus and does not include its easternmost portions, which lie in Thessaly. In Albania, where the concept of Epirus is never used in an official context, the counties of Gjirokastër, Vlorë, and Berat extend well beyond the northern and northeastern boundaries of classical Epirus.\n\nEpirus is a predominantly rugged and mountainous region. It is largely made up of the Pindus Mountains, a series of parallel limestone ridges that are a continuation of the Dinaric Alps. The Pindus mountains form the spine of mainland Greece and separate Epirus from Macedonia and Thessaly to the east. The ridges of the Pindus are parallel to the sea and generally so steep that the valleys between them are mostly suitable for pasture rather than large-scale agriculture. Altitude increases as one moves east, away from the coast, reaching a maximum of 2,637 m at Mount Smolikas, the highest point in Epirus. Other important ranges include Tymfi (2,496 m at Mount Gamila), Lygkos (2,249 m), to the west and east of Smolikas respectively, Gramos (2,523 m) in the northeast, Tzoumerka (2,356 m) in the southeast, Tomaros (1,976 m) in the southwest, Mitsikeli near Ioannina (1,810 m), Mourgana (1,806 m) and Nemercke/Aeoropos (2,485 m) on the border between Greece and Albania, and the Ceraunian Mountains (2,000 m) near Himara in Albania. Most of Epirus lies on the windward side of the Pindus, and the prevailing winds from the Ionian Sea make the region the rainiest in mainland Greece.\n\nSignificant lowlands are to be found only near the coast, in the southwest near Arta and Preveza, in the Acheron plain between Paramythia and Fanari, between Igoumenitsa and Sagiada, and also near Saranda. The Zagori area is a scenic upland plateau surrounded by mountain on all sides.\n\nThe main river flowing through Epirus is the Vjosë (\"Aoös\" in Greek), which flows in a northwesterly direction from the Pindus mountains in Greece to its mouth north of the Bay of Vlorë in Albania. Other important rivers include the Acheron river, famous for its religious significance in ancient Greece and site of the Necromanteion, the Arachthos river, crossed by the historic Bridge of Arta, the Louros, the Thyamis or Kalamas, and the Voidomatis, a tributary of the Vjosë flowing through the Vikos Gorge. The Vikos Gorge, one of the deepest in the world, forms the centerpiece of the Vikos–Aoös National Park, known for its scenic beauty. The only significant lake in Epirus is Lake Pamvotis, on whose shores lies the city of Ioannina, the region's largest and traditionally most important city.\n\nThe climate of Epirus is Mediterranean along the coast and Alpine in the interior. Epirus is heavily forested, mainly by coniferous species. The fauna in Epirus is especially rich and features species such as bears, wolves, foxes, deer and lynxes.\n\nEpirus has been occupied since at least Neolithic times by seafarers along the coast and by hunters and shepherds in the interior who brought with them the Greek language. These people buried their leaders in large tumuli containing shaft graves, similar to the Mycenaean tombs, indicating an ancestral link between Epirus and the Mycenaean civilization. A number of Mycenaean remains have been found in Epirus, especially at the most important ancient religious sites in the region, the Necromanteion (Oracle of the Dead) on the Acheron river, and the Oracle of Zeus at Dodona.\n\nIn the Middle Bronze Age, Epirus was inhabited by the same nomadic Hellenic tribes that went on to settle in the rest of Greece. Aristotle considered the region around Dodona to have been part of Hellas and the region where the Hellenes originated. According to Bulgarian linguist Vladimir I. Georgiev, Epirus was part of the Proto-Greek linguistic area during the Late Neolithic period. By the early 1st millennium BC, all fourteen Epirote tribes including the Chaonians in northwestern Epirus, the Molossians in the centre and the Thesprotians in the south, were speakers of a strong west Greek dialect.\n\nUnlike most other Greeks of this time, who lived in or around city-states, the inhabitants of Epirus lived in small villages and their way of life was foreign to that of the poleis of southern Greece. Their region lay on the periphery of the Greek world and was far from peaceful; for many centuries, it remained a frontier area contested with the Illyrian peoples to the north. However, Epirus had a far greater religious significance than might have been expected given its geographical remoteness, due to the presence of the shrine and oracle at Dodona – regarded as second only to the more famous oracle at Delphi.\n\nThe Epirotes, speakers of a Northwest Greek dialect, different from the Dorian of the Greek colonies on the Ionian islands, and bearers of mostly Greek names, as evidenced by epigraphy, seem to have been regarded with some disdain by some classical writers. The 5th-century BC Athenian historian Thucydides describes them as \"barbarians\" in his \"History of the Peloponnesian War\", as does Strabo in his \"Geography\". Other writers, such as Herodotus, Dionysius of Halicarnassus, Pausanias, and Eutropius, describe them as Greeks. Similarly, Epirote tribes/states are included in the Argive and Epidaurian lists of the Greek Thearodokoi (hosts of sacred envoys). Plutarch mentions an interesting element of Epirote folklore regarding Achilles: In his biography of King Pyrrhus, he claims that Achilles \"had a divine status in Epirus and in the local dialect he was called Aspetos\" (meaning \"unspeakable\", \"unspeakably great\", in Homeric Greek).\n\nBeginning in 370 BC, the Molossian Aeacidae dynasty built a centralized state in Epirus and began expanding their power at the expense of rival tribes. The Aeacids allied themselves with the increasingly powerful kingdom of Macedon, in part against the common threat of Illyrian raids, and in 359 BC the Molossian princess Olympias, niece of Arybbas of Epirus, married King Philip II of Macedon. She was to become the mother of Alexander the Great.\n\nOn the death of Arybbas, Alexander of Epirus succeeded to the throne and the title King of Epirus in 334 BC. He invaded Italy, but was killed in battle by a Lucanian in the Battle of Pandosia against several Italic tribes 331 BC. Aeacides of Epirus, who succeeded Alexander, espoused the cause of Olympias against Cassander, but was dethroned in 313 BC. His son Pyrrhus came to throne in 295 BC, and for six years fought against the Romans and Carthaginians in southern Italy and Sicily. The high cost of his victories against the Romans gave Epirus a new, but brief, importance, as well as a lasting contribution to the Greek language with the concept of a \"Pyrrhic victory\". Pyrrhus nonetheless brought great prosperity to Epirus, building the great theater of Dodona and a new suburb at Ambracia (now modern Arta), which he made his capital.\n\nThe Aeacid dynasty ended in 232 BC, but Epirus remained a substantial power, unified under the auspices of the Epirote League as a federal state with its own parliament, or \"synedrion\". However, it was faced with the growing threat of the expansionist Roman Republic, which fought a series of wars against Macedon. The League steered an uneasy neutral course in the first two Macedonian Wars but split in the Third Macedonian War (171–168 BC), with the Molossians siding with the Macedonians and the Chaonians and Thesprotians siding with Rome. The outcome was disastrous for Epirus; Molossia fell to Rome in 167 BC and 150,000 of its inhabitants were enslaved.\n\nThe region of Epirus was placed under the senatorial province of Achaea in 27 BC, with the exception of its northernmost part, which remained part of the province of Macedonia. Under Emperor Trajan, sometime between 103 and 114 AD, Epirus became a separate province, under a \"procurator Augusti\". The new province extended from the Gulf of Aulon (Vlorë) and the Acroceraunian Mountains in the north to the lower course of the Acheloos River in the south, and included the northern Ionian Islands of Corfu, Lefkada, Ithaca, Cephallonia, and Zakynthos.\n\nProbably during the provincial reorganization by Diocletian (r. 284–305), the western portion of the province of Macedonia along the Adriatic coast was split off into the province of New Epirus (). Although this territory was not traditionally part of Epirus proper as defined by the ancient geographers, and was historically inhabited predominantly by Illyrian tribes, the name reflects the fact that under Roman rule, the area had been subject to increasing Hellenization and settlement by Epirote tribes from the south.\n\nThe two Epirote provinces became part of the Diocese of Moesia, until it was divided in ca. 369 into the dioceses of Macedonia and Dacia, when they became part of the former. In the 4th century, Epirus was still a stronghold of paganism, and was aided by Emperor Julian (r. 361–363) and his praetorian prefect Claudius Mamertinus through reduction in taxes and the rebuilding of the provincial capital, Nicopolis. According to Jordanes, in 380 the Visigoths raided the area. With the division of the Empire on the death of Theodosius I in 395, Epirus became part of the Eastern Roman or Byzantine Empire. In 395–397, the Visigoths under Alaric plundered Greece. They remained in Epirus for a few years, until 401, and again in 406–407, during Alaric's alliance with the Western Roman generalissimo Stilicho in order to wrest the Eastern Illyricum from the Eastern Empire.\nThe \"Synecdemus\" of Hierocles, composed in ca. 527/8 AD but probably reflecting the situation in the first half of the 5th century, reports 11 cities for Old Epirus (, ): the capital Nicopolis, Dodona, Euroea, Hadrianopolis, Appon, Phoenice, Anchiasmos, Buthrotum, Photike, Corfu Island, and Ithaca Island. New Epirus, with capital at Dyrrhachium, comprised 9 cities. From 467 on, the Ionian Islands and the coasts of Epirus became subject to raids by the Vandals, who had taken over the North African provinces and established their own kingdom centred on Carthage. The Vandals notably seized Nicopolis in 474 as a bargaining chip in their negotiations with Emperor Zeno, and plundered Zakynthos, killing many of its inhabitants and ferrying off others into slavery. Epirus Nova became a battleground in the rebellions of the Ostrogoths after 479. In 517, a raid of the Getae or Antae reached Greece, including Epirus Vetus. The claim of Procopius of Caesarea in his \"Secret History\", that under Justinian I (r. 527–565) the entirety of the Balkan provinces was raided by barbarians every year, is considered rhetorical hyperbole by modern scholars; only a single Slavic raid to the environs of Dyrrhachium, in 548/9, has been documented. Procopius further reports that in 551, in an attempt to interdict the Byzantines' lines of communication with Italy during the Gothic War, the Ostrogoth king Totila sent his fleet to raid the shores of Epirus. In response to these raids, and to repair the damage done by two destructive earthquakes in 522, Justinian initiated a wide-ranging programme of reconstruction and re-fortification: Hadrianopolis was rebuilt, albeit in reduced extent, and renamed Justinianopolis, while Euroea was moved further inland (traditionally identified with the founding of Ioannina), while Procopius claims that no less than 36 smaller fortresses in Epirus Vetus—most of them not identifiable today—were either rebuilt or built anew.\n\nIn the late 6th century, much of Greece, including Epirus, fell under the control of the Avars and their Slavic allies. This is placed by the \"Chronicle of Monemvasia\" in the year 587, and is further corroborated by evidence that several sees were abandoned by their bishops by 591. Thus in ca. 590 the bishop, clergy and people of Euroea fled their city, carrying with them the relics of their patron saint, St. Donatus, to Cassiope in Corfu.\n\nOf the various Slavic tribes, only the Baiounitai, first attested ca. 615, are known by name, giving their name to their region of settlement: \"Vagenetia\". Based on the density of the Slavic toponyms in Epirus, the Slavs must have settled in the region, although the extent of this settlement is unclear. Slavic toponyms occur mainly in the mountainous areas of the interior and the coasts of the Gulf of Corinth, indicative of the fact that this was the avenue used by most of the Slavs who crossed the Gulf into the Peloponnese. With the exception of some few toponyms on Corfu, the Ionian Islands seem to not have been affected. The linguistic analysis of the toponyms reveals that they date mostly to the early wave of Slavic settlement at the turn of the 6th/7th centuries. Due to scarcity of textual evidence, it is unclear how much the area was affected by the second wave of Slavic migration, which began in the middle of the 8th century due to Bulgar pressure in the northern Balkans.\n\nAs in eastern Greece, the restoration of Byzantine rule seems to have proceeded from the islands, chiefly Cephallonia, which was certainly under firm control in ca. 702, when Philippicus Bardanes was banished there. The gradual restoration of imperial rule is evidenced further from the participation of local bishops in councils in Constantinople: whereas only the bishop of Dyrrhachium participated in the Ecumenical Councils of 680/1 and 692, a century later the bishops of Dyrrhachium, Nicopolis, Corfu, Cephallonia, and Zakynthos are attested in the Second Council of Nicaea in 787. In about the middle of the 8th century, the Theme of Cephallenia was established, but at least initially it was more oriented towards restoring Byzantine control over the Ionian and Adriatic seas, combating Saracen piracy, and securing communications with the remaining Byzantine possessions in Italy, rather than any systematic effort at subduing the Epirote mainland. Nevertheless, following the onset of the Muslim conquest of Sicily in 827, the Ionian became particularly exposed to Arab raids.\nThe 9th century however saw great progress in the restoration of imperial control in the mainland, as evidenced by the participation of the bishops of Ioannina, Naupaktos, Hadrianopolis, and Vagenetia (evidently by now organized as a \"Sklavinia\" under imperial rule) in the Ecumenical Councils of 869/70 and 879/80. The Byzantine recovery resulted in an influx of Greeks from southern Italy and Asia Minor into the Greek interior, while remaining Slavs were Christianized and Hellenized. The success of the Hellenization campaign also suggests continuity of the original Greek population and that the Slavs had settled among many Greeks, in contrast to areas further north in what is now Bulgaria and the former Yugoslavia, as those areas could not be Hellenized when they were recovered by the Byzantines in the early 11th century. Following the great naval victory of admiral Nasar in 880, and the beginning of the Byzantine offensive against the Arabs in southern Italy in the 880s, the situation improved and the Theme of Nicopolis was established, most likely after 886. As the ancient capital of Epirus had been laid waste by the Slavs, the capital of the new theme became Naupaktos further south. The extent of the new province is unclear, but probably matched the extent of the Metropolis of Naupaktos, established at about the same time: Vonditsa, Aetos, Acheloos, Rogoi, Ioannina, Hadrianopolis, Photike, Buthrotum. Vagenetia notably no longer appears as a bishopric. As the authors of the \"Tabula Imperii Byzantini\" comment, it appears that \"the Byzantine administration had brought the strongly Slavic-settled areas in the mainland somewhat under its control, and a certain Re-Hellenization had set in\". Further north, the region around Dyrrhachium existed as the homonymous theme possibly as early as the 9th century.\n\nDuring the early 10th century, both themes of Cephallenia and Nicopolis appear mostly as bases for expeditions against southern Italy and Sicily, while Mardaites from both themes are listed in the large but unsuccessful expedition of 949 against the Emirate of Crete. In ca. 930, the Theme of Nicopolis was raided by the Bulgarians, who even occupied some parts until driven out or subjugated by the Byzantines years later. Only the extreme north of Epirus seems to have remained consistently under Bulgarian rule in the period, but under Tsar Samuel, who moved the centre of Bulgarian power south and west to Ohrid, probably all of Epirus down to the Ambracian Gulf came under Bulgarian rule. This is evidenced from the fact that the territories that were under Bulgarian rule formed part of the autocephalous Archbishopric of Ohrid after the Byzantine conquest of Bulgaria by Emperor Basil II in 1018: thus in Epirus the sees of Chimara, Hadrianopolis, Bela, Buthrotum, Ioannina, Kozyle, and Rogoi passed under the jurisdiction of Ohrid, while the Metropolitan of Naupaktos retained only the sees of Bonditza, Aetos, and Acheloos. Basil II also established new, smaller themes in the region: Koloneia, and Dryinoupolis (Hadrianopolis).\n\nThe region joined the uprising of Petar Delyan in 1040, and suffered in the Byzantine–Norman Wars of the late 11th century: Dyrrhachium was occupied by the Normans in 1081–1084, Arta was unsuccessfully besieged, and Ioannina was captured by Robert Guiscard. An Aromanian presence in Epirus is first mentioned in the late 11th century, while Jewish communities are attested throughout the medieval period in Arta and Ioannina.\n\nWhen Constantinople fell to the Fourth Crusade in 1204, the \"partitio Romaniae\" assigned Epirus to Venice, but the Venetians were largely unable to effectively establish their authority except over Dyrrhachium. The Greek noble Michael Komnenos Doukas, who had married the daughter of a local magnate, took advantage of this, and within a few years consolidated his control, first as a Venetian vassal and eventually as an independent ruler. By the time of his death in 1214/5, Michael had established a strong state, the Despotate of Epirus, with the former theme of Nicopolis at its core and Arta as its capital. Epirus, and the city of Ioannina in particular, became a haven for Greek refugees from Constantinople for most of the century. The Despotate of Epirus ruled over Epirus and western Greece as far south as Nafpaktos and the Gulf of Corinth, much of Albania (including Dyrrhachium), Thessaly, and the western portion of Greek Macedonia, extending its rule briefly over central Macedonia and most of Thrace following the aggressive expansionism of Theodore Komnenos Doukas who established the Empire of Thessalonica in 1224. During this time, the definition of Epirus came to encompass the entire coastal region from the Ambracian Gulf to Dyrrhachium and the hinterland to the west up to the highest peaks of the Pindus mountain range. Some of the most important cities in Epirus, such as Gjirokastër (Argyrokastron), were founded during this period. The oldest reference to Albanians in Epirus is from a Venetian document dating to 1210, which states that \"the continent facing the island of Corfu is inhabited by Albanians\" though a pre-14th century Albanian migration can't be confirmed. In 1337, Epirus was once again brought under Byzantine imperial rule.\n\nIn 1348, taking advantage of the civil war between John V Palaiologos and John VI Kantakouzenos, the Serbian King Stefan Uroš IV Dušan conquered Epirus, with a number of Albanian mercenaries assisting him. The Byzantine authorities in Constantinople soon re-established a measure of control by making the Despotate of Epirus a vassal state, but meanwhile Albanian clans invaded, seized most of the region, and founded two local, short-lived entities, centered in Arta (1358–1416) and Gjirokastër (1386–1411) by the Losha and Zenebishi clans, respectively. Only the city of Ioannina remained under Greek control during this time. Although Albanian clans gained control of most of the region of Epirus by 1366–7, they did not succeed any Greek or Serbian central authority in the region but remained divided in clans. Ioannina became a center of Greek resistance, and the Greeks of Ioannina offered power to three foreign rulers during this time, beginning with Thomas II Preljubović (1367–1384), followed by Esau de' Buondelmonti (1385–1411), and finally Carlo I Tocco (1411–1429). The latter finally succeeded in ending the rule of the Albanian clans and unifying Epirus. But internal dissension eased the Ottoman conquest, which proceeded with the capture of Ioannina in 1430, Arta in 1449, Angelokastro in 1460, and finally Vonitsa in 1479. With the exception of several coastal Venetian possessions, this was the end of Frankish rule in mainland Greece.\n\nEpirus was ruled by the Ottomans for almost 500 years. Ottoman rule in Epirus proved particularly damaging; the region was subjected to deforestation and excessive cultivation, which damaged the soil and drove many Epirotes to emigrate so as to escape the region's pervasive poverty. Nonetheless, the Ottomans did not enjoy total control of Epirus. The Himara and Zagori regions managed to successfully resist Ottoman rule and maintained a degree of independence throughout this period. From 1443 onwards, George Kastrioti Skenderbeg led a 25-year revolt in Epirus Nova against the Ottoman Empire and was in 1444 elected \"general of the Turkish war\" in what is referred to as the League of Lezhë, but died a fugitive in Venice. The Ottomans expelled the Venetians from almost the whole area in the late 15th century.\n\nBetween the 16th and 19th centuries, the city of Ioannina attained great prosperity and became a major center of the modern Greek Enlightenment. Numerous schools were founded, such as the Balaneios, Maroutsaia, Kaplaneios, and Zosimaia, teaching subjects such as literature, philosophy, mathematics and physical sciences. In the 18th century, as the power of the Ottoman Empire declined, Epirus became a \"de facto\" independent region under the despotic rule of Ali Pasha of Tepelena, a Muslim Albanian brigand who rose to become the provincial governor of Ioannina in 1788. At the height of his power, he controlled all of Epirus, and much of the Peloponnese, central Greece, and parts of western Macedonia Ali Pasha's campaign to subjugate the confederation of the settlements of Souli met with fierce resistance by the Souliot warriors of the mountainous area. After numerous failed attempts to defeat the Souliotes, his troops succeeded in conquering the area in 1803. On the other hand, Ali, who used Greek as official language, witnessed an increase of Greek cultural activity with the establishment of several educational institutions.\n\nWhen the Greek War of Independence broke out, the inhabitants of Epirus contributed greatly. Two of the founding members of the Filiki Eteria (the secret society of the Greek revolutionaries), Nikolaos Skoufas and Athanasios Tsakalov, came from the Arta area and the city of Ioannina, respectively. Greece's first constitutional prime minister (1844–1847), Ioannis Kolettis, was a native of the village of Syrrako in Epirus and was a former personal physician to Ali Pasha. Ali Pasha tried to use the war as an opportunity to make himself a fully independent ruler, but was assassinated by Ottoman agents in 1822. When Greece became independent in 1830, however, Epirus remained under Ottoman rule. In 1854, during the Crimean War, a major local rebellion broke out. Although the newly found Greek state tried tacitly to support it, the rebellion was suppressed by Ottoman forces after a few months. Another failed rebellion by local Greeks broke out in 1878. During this period, the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople\nmanaged to shut down the few Albanian schools, considering teaching in Albanian a factor that would diminish its influence and lead to the creation of separate Albanian church, while publications in Albanian were banned by the Ottoman Empire. In the late 19th century, the Kingdom of Italy opened various schools in the regions of Ioannina and Preveza in order to influence the local population. These schools began to attract students from the Greek language schools, but were ultimately closed after intervention and harassment by the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople. Throughout, the late period of Ottoman rule (from the 18th century) Greek and Aromanian population of the region suffered from Albanians raiders, that sporadically continued after Ali Pasha's death, until 1912–1913.\n\nWhile the Treaty of Berlin (1878) awarded large parts of Epirus to Greece, opposition by the Ottomans and the League of Prizren resulted in only the region of Arta being ceded to Greece in 1881. It was only following the First Balkan War of 1912–1913 and the Treaty of London that the rest of southern Epirus, including Ioannina, was incorporated into Greece. Greece had also seized northern Epirus during the Balkan Wars, but the Treaty of Bucharest, which concluded the Second Balkan War, assigned Northern Epirus to Albania.\n\nThis outcome was unpopular among local Greeks, as a substantial Greek population existed on the Albanian side of the border. Among Greeks, northern Epirus was henceforth regarded as \"terra irredenta\". Local Greeks in northern Epirus revolted, declared their independence and proclaimed the Autonomous Republic of Northern Epirus in February 1914. After fierce guerrilla fighting, they managed to gain full autonomy under the terms of the Protocol of Corfu, signed by Albanian and Northern Epirote representatives and approved by the Great Powers. The signing of the Protocol ensured that the region would have its own administration, recognized the rights of the local Greeks and provided self-government under nominal Albanian sovereignty. The Republic, however, was short-lived, as when World War I broke out, Albania collapsed, and northern Epirus was alternately controlled by Greece, Italy and France at various intervals. Although short-lived, this state managed to leave behind a number of historical records of its existence, including its own postage stamps; see Postage stamps and postal history of Epirus.\n\nAlthough the Paris Peace Conference of 1919 awarded Northern Epirus to Greece, developments such as the Greek defeat in the Greco-Turkish War and, crucially, Italian lobbying in favor of Albania meant that Greece would not keep Northern Epirus. In 1924, the area was again ceded to Albania.\n\nIn 1939, Italy occupied Albania, and in 1940 invaded Greece. The Italians were driven back into Albania, however, and Greek forces again took control of northern Epirus. The conflict marked the first tactical victory of the Allies in World War II. Benito Mussolini himself supervised the massive counter-attack of his divisions in spring 1941, only to be decisively defeated again by the poorly equipped, but determined, Greeks. Nazi Germany then intervened in April 1941 to avert an embarrassing, wholesale Italian defeat. The German military performed rapid military maneuvers through Yugoslavia and forced the encircled Greek forces of the Epirus front to surrender.\n\nThe whole of Epirus was then placed under Italian occupation until 1943, when the Germans took over following the Italian surrender to the Allies. Due to the extensive activity of the anti-Nazi Greek resistance (mainly under EDES), the Germans carried out large scaled anti-partisan sweeps, making wide use of Nazi-collaborationist bands of Cham Albanians, who committed numerous atrocities against the civilian population.\n\nTo deal with the situation, the Allied Military Mission in the Axis-occupied Greece (under Colonel C. M. Woodhouse), gave EDES partisans direct orders to counter-attack and chase out of their villages those units that used them as bases and local strongholds. Helped by Allied war material transferred from the recently liberated southern Italy, EDES forces succeeded and as a result several thousands of Muslim Cham Albanians fled the area and took refuge in nearby Albania.\n\nWith the liberation of Greece and the start of the first round of the Greek Civil War at the end of 1944, the highlands of Epirus became a major theater of guerrilla warfare between the leftist Greek People's Liberation Army (ELAS) and the right-wing National Republican Greek League (EDES). In subsequent years (1945–1949), the mountains of Epirus also became the scene of some of the fiercest fighting of the second and bloodier round of the Greek Civil War. The final episode of the war took place on Mount Grammos in 1949, ending with the defeat of the Communists. Peace returned to the region in 1949, although because of official Albanian active involvement in the civil war on the side of the communists, the formal state of war between Greece and Albania remained in effect until 1987. Another reason for the continuation of the state of war until 1987 was that during the entire period of Communist rule in Albania, the Greek population of Northern Epirus experienced forced Albanisation. Although a Greek minority was recognized by the Hoxha regime, this recognition only applied to an \"official minority zone\" consisting of 99 villages, leaving out important areas of Greek settlement, such as Himara. People outside the official minority zone received no education in the Greek language, which was prohibited in public. The Hoxha regime also diluted the ethnic demographics of the region by relocating Greeks living there and settling in their stead Albanians from other parts of the country. Relations began to improve in the 1980s with Greece's abandonment of any territorial claims over Northern Epirus and the lifting of the official state of war between the two countries.\n\nThe collapse of the communist regime in Albania in 1990–1991 triggered a massive migration of Albanian citizens to Greece, which included many members of the Greek minority. Since the end of the Cold War, many Greeks in Northern Epirus are re-discovering their Greek heritage thanks to the opening of Greek schools in the region, while Cham Albanians have called for compensation for their lost property. In the post-Cold War era, relations have continued to improve though tensions remain over the availability of education in the Greek language outside the official minority zone, the minority's property rights, and occasional violent incidents targeting members of the Greek minority.\n\nA rugged topography, poor soils, and fragmented landholdings have kept agricultural production low and have resulted in a low population density. Animal husbandry is the main industry and corn the chief crop. Oranges and olives are grown in the western lowlands, while tobacco is grown around Ioannina. Epirus has few natural resources and industries, and the population has been depleted by migration. The population is centered around Ioannina, which has the largest number of industrial establishments.\n\nEpirus has historically been a remote and isolated region due to its location between the Pindus mountains and the sea. In antiquity, the Roman Via Egnatia passed through Epirus Nova, which linked Byzantium and Thessalonica to Dyrrachium on the Adriatic Sea. The modern Egnatia highway, which links Ioannina to the Greek province of Macedonia and terminating at Igoumenitsa, is the only highway through the Pindus mountains and has served to greatly reduce the region's isolation from the east, while the Ionia highway, connecting Epirus with Western Greece, helped reducing the region's isolation from the south. Also, the Aktio-Preveza Undersea Tunnel connects the southernmost tip of Epirus, near Preveza, with Aetolia-Acarnania in western Greece. Ferry services from Igoumenitsa to the Ionian islands and Italy exist. The only airport in Epirus is the Ioannina National Airport, while the Aktion National Airport is located just south of Preveza in Aetolia-Acarnania. There are no railroads in Epirus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "980345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=980345", "title": "Espalier", "text": "Espalier\n\nEspalier ( or ) is the horticultural and ancient agricultural practice of controlling woody plant growth for the production of fruit, by pruning and tying branches to a frame. Plants are frequently shaped in formal patterns, flat against a structure such as a wall, fence, or trellis, and also plants which have been shaped in this way.\n\nEspaliers, trained into flat two-dimensional forms, are used not only for decorative purposes, but also for gardens in which space is limited. In a temperate climate, espaliers may be trained next to a wall that can reflect more sunlight and retain heat overnight or orientated so that they absorb maximum sunlight by training them parallel to the equator.\nThese two strategies allow the season to be extended so that fruit has more time to mature.\n\nA restricted form of training consists of a central stem and a number of paired horizontal branches all trained in the same plane. \nThe most important advantage is that of being able to increase the growth of a branch by training it vertically. Later, one can decrease growth while increasing fruit production by training it horizontally.\n\nThe word \"espalier\" is French, and it comes from the Italian \"spalliera\", meaning \"something to rest the shoulder (\"spalla\") against.\" During the 17th Century, the word initially referred only to the actual trellis or frame on which such a plant was trained to grow, but over time it has come to be used to describe both the practice and the plants themselves.\n\nEspalier as a technique seems to have started with the ancient Romans. In the Middle Ages the Europeans refined it into an art. The practice was popularly used in Europe to produce fruit inside the walls of a typical castle courtyard without interfering with the open space and to decorate solid walls by planting flattened trees near them. Vineyards have used the technique in the training of grapes for hundreds or perhaps even thousands of years.\n\nA Belgian fence is created by cutting back an unbranched, slender tree to between fifteen and eighteen inches above the ground. The topmost three buds are allowed to form; one in the middle is trained vertically while two others are trained into a V shape. Any other buds are rubbed away. Removing the vertical stem completes the individual V-shaped espalier. By placing many similarly trained trees in a line two feet apart with their branches trained to the same plane, a Belgian fence is created.\n\nThe Belgian fence is an intermediary form that can then be used to train onward to many other forms of espalier, including: Step-over, where the branches are lowered down to the horizontal in autumn while still flexible enough and tied to a trellis; Fan, where the branches are lowered and cut back then trained further; Horizontal T, where the branches are trained to horizontal as with step-over but the vertical stem is trained up to another level and cut usually in spring of the second year, where another V shape is created and the resulting branches finally being lowered to another wire in autumn of the second year. Multiple levels of horizontal branching can be trained in this way.\n\nCertain types of trees adapt better to this practice than others, but almost any woody plant can be trained to grow along a flat plane by removing growth outside that plane.\nHorizontal T training of an apple or pear tree is a good example of the ideal species for espalier. In the spring, the tree is pruned to the lowest wire perhaps 15 to 18 inches above the ground. During the summer, buds lengthen into branches; one trained vertically to the next wire while others are trained along the wires. Unnecessary buds are removed by rubbing them away with a thumb. In autumn, the side branches are lowered and tied to the wires completing the level. The following year another level is created.\n\nExamples of species for espalier include:\nTrees\n\nShrubs:\n\nWoody vines\nEspalier design often uses traditional formal patterns developed over hundreds of years, but can also employ more modern informal designs. A stunted or deformed plant, or one that already has interesting or unique characteristics, might be just right for an informal espalier.\n\nCommon formal patterns include the following styles.\n\nEspalier plants on solid walls are usually installed six to twelve inches from the base of that wall, to allow space below ground for roots to grow in all directions as well as space above ground for good air circulation and pest control. Supports for wire guides, which are generally necessary to train an espalier into a design, are installed first, directly into a wall constructed of suitable material. Masonry walls are ideal for placing U-bolts, eye bolts, or eye screws, anchored with either plastic plugs or expandable lead shields, directly into the mortar joints. Wooden walls may be better fitted with galvanized nipples, using turnbuckles for adjustment of the wire tautness.\n\nSuitable, established and healthy plants, three to four feet tall and perhaps in three-gallon containers, are available from most nurseries. Some may even have trellises already installed. These plants could also be good candidates for espalier treatment if their form is similar to the intended design, as they frequently have already been pruned into a flattened overall plant shape. All that is required for such specimens is transplanting. Unpruned plants benefit from being allowed to become well established following transplant, before pruning them gradually into their flattened profile and training them as designed. Any major pruning needed is generally accomplished either while the plant is dormant or, for flowering plants, during the proper season for pruning that species. Bending and training of the limbs that will remain in the design is done during the progression of the summer season, when they are most flexible.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "633896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=633896", "title": "Flight 19", "text": "Flight 19\n\nFlight 19 was the designation of a group of five Grumman TBM Avenger torpedo bombers that disappeared over the Bermuda Triangle on December 5, 1945, after losing contact during a United States Navy overwater navigation training flight from Naval Air Station Fort Lauderdale, Florida. All 14 airmen on the flight were lost, as were all 13 crew members of a Martin PBM Mariner flying boat that subsequently launched from Naval Air Station Banana River to search for Flight 19. The PBM aircraft was known to accumulate flammable gasoline vapors in its bilges, and professional investigators have assumed that the PBM most likely exploded in mid-air while searching for the flight. Navy investigators could not determine the exact cause of the loss of Flight 19.\n\nFlight 19 undertook a routine navigation and combat training exercise in TBM-type aircraft. The assignment was called \"Navigation problem No. 1\", a combination of bombing and navigation, which other flights had completed or were scheduled to undertake that day. The flight leader was United States Navy Lieutenant Charles Carroll Taylor, who had about 2,500 flying hours, mostly in aircraft of this type, while his trainee pilots each had 300 total, and 60 flight hours in the Avenger. Taylor had completed a combat tour in the Pacific theatre as torpedo bomber pilot on the aircraft carrier and had recently arrived from NAS Miami where he had also been a VTB instructor. The student pilots had recently completed other training missions in the area where the flight was to take place. They were U.S. Marine Captains Edward Joseph Powers and George William Stivers, U.S. Marine Second Lieutenant Forrest James Gerber and USN Ensign Joseph Tipton Bossi; their callsigns started with 'Fox Tare'.\nThe aircraft were four TBM-1Cs, BuNo 45714, 'FT3', BuNo 46094, 'FT36', BuNo 46325, 'FT81', BuNo 73209, 'FT117', and one TBM-3, BuNo 23307, 'FT28'. Each was fully fueled, and during pre-flight checks it was discovered they were all missing clocks. Navigation of the route was intended to teach dead reckoning principles, which involved calculating among other things elapsed time. The apparent lack of timekeeping equipment was not a cause for concern as it was assumed each man had his own watch. Takeoff was scheduled for 13:45 local time, but the late arrival of Taylor delayed departure until 14:10. Weather at NAS Fort Lauderdale was described as \"favorable, sea state moderate to rough.\" Taylor was supervising the mission, and a trainee pilot had the role of leader out front.\nCalled \"Naval Air Station, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, navigation problem No. 1,\" the exercise involved three different legs, but the actual flight should have flown four. After take off, they flew on heading 091° (almost due east) for until reaching Hen and Chickens Shoals where low level bombing practice was carried out. The flight was to continue on that heading for another before turning onto a course of 346° for , in the process over-flying Grand Bahama island. The next scheduled turn was to a heading of 241° to fly at the end of which the exercise was completed and the Avengers would turn left to then return to NAS Ft. Lauderdale.\n\nRadio conversations between the pilots were overheard by base and other aircraft in the area. The practice bombing operation is known to have been carried out because at about 15:00 a pilot requested and was given permission to drop his last bomb. Forty minutes later, another flight instructor, Lieutenant Robert F. Cox in FT-74, forming up with his group of students for the same mission, received an unidentified transmission.\nAn unidentified crew member asked Powers, one of the students, for his compass reading. Powers replied: \"I don't know where we are. We must have got lost after that last turn.\" Cox then transmitted; \"This is FT-74, plane or boat calling 'Powers' please identify yourself so someone can help you.\" The response after a few moments was a request from the others in the flight for suggestions. FT-74 tried again and a man identified as FT-28 (Taylor) came on. \"FT-28, this is FT-74, what is your trouble?\" \"Both of my compasses are out\", Taylor replied, \"and I am trying to find Fort Lauderdale, Florida. I am over land but it's broken. I am sure I'm in the Keys but I don't know how far down and I don't know how to get to Fort Lauderdale.\"\nFT-74 informed the NAS that aircraft were lost, then advised Taylor to put the sun on his port wing and fly north up the coast to Fort Lauderdale. Base operations then asked if the flight leader's aircraft was equipped with a standard YG (IFF transmitter), which could be used to triangulate the flight's position, but the message was not acknowledged by FT-28. (Later he would indicate that his transmitter was activated.) Instead, at 16:45, FT-28 radioed: \"We are heading 030 degrees for 45 minutes, then we will fly north to make sure we are not over the Gulf of Mexico.\" During this time no bearings could be made on the flight, and IFF could not be picked up. Taylor was told to broadcast on 4805 kHz. This order was not acknowledged so he was asked to switch to 3000 kHz, the search and rescue frequency. Taylor replied – \"I cannot switch frequencies. I must keep my planes intact.\"\nAt 16:56, Taylor was again asked to turn on his transmitter for YG if he had one. He did not acknowledge but a few minutes later advised his flight \"Change course to 090 degrees (due east) for 10 minutes.\" About the same time someone in the flight said \"Dammit, if we could just fly west we would get home; head west, dammit.\" This difference of opinion later led to questions about why the students did not simply head west on their own. It has been explained that this can be attributed to military discipline.\nAs the weather deteriorated, radio contact became intermittent, and it was believed that the five aircraft were actually by that time more than out to sea east of the Florida peninsula. Taylor radioed \"We'll fly 270 degrees west until landfall or running out of gas\" and requested a weather check at 17:24. By 17:50 several land-based radio stations had triangulated Flight 19's position as being within a radius of ; Flight 19 was north of the Bahamas and well off the coast of central Florida, but nobody transmitted this information on an open, repetitive basis.\nAt 18:04, Taylor radioed to his flight \"Holding 270, we didn't fly far enough east, we may as well just turn around and fly east again\". By that time, the weather had deteriorated even more and the sun had since set. Around 18:20, Taylor's last message was received. (It has also been reported that Taylor's last message was received at 19:04.) He was heard saying \"All planes close up tight ... we'll have to ditch unless landfall ... when the first plane drops below 10 gallons, we all go down together.\"\n\nAs it became obvious the flight was lost, air bases, aircraft, and merchant ships were alerted. A Consolidated PBY Catalina departed after 18:00 to search for Flight 19 and guide them back if they could be located. After dark, two Martin PBM Mariner flying boats originally scheduled for their own training flights were diverted to perform square pattern searches in the area west of . US Navy Squadron Training No. 49 PBM-5 BuNo 59225 took off at 19:27 from Naval Air Station Banana River (now Patrick Air Force Base), called in a routine radio message at 19:30 and was never heard from again.\n\nAt 21.15, the tanker SS \"Gaines Mills\" reported it had observed flames from an apparent explosion leaping high and burning for 10 minutes, at position . Captain Shonna Stanley reported unsuccessfully searching for survivors through a pool of oil and aviation gasoline. The escort carrier also reported losing radar contact with an aircraft at the same position and time.\n\nA 500-page Navy board of investigation report published a few months later made several observations:\n\n\nThis report was subsequently amended \"cause unknown\" by the Navy after Taylor's mother contended that the Navy was unfairly blaming her son for the loss of five aircraft and 14 men, when the Navy had neither the bodies nor the airplanes as evidence.\n\nHad Flight 19 actually been where Taylor believed it to be, the flight would have made landfall with the Florida coastline within 20 minutes, depending on how far down they were. However, a later reconstruction of the incident showed that the islands visible to Taylor were probably the Bahamas, well northeast of the Keys, and that Flight 19 was exactly where it should have been. The board of investigation found that because of his belief that he was on a base course toward Florida, Taylor actually guided the flight farther northeast and out to sea. Further, it was general knowledge at NAS Fort Lauderdale that if a pilot ever became lost in the area to fly a heading of 270° west (or in evening hours toward the sunset if the compass had failed). By the time the flight actually turned west, they were likely so far out to sea they had already passed their aircraft's fuel endurance. This factor combined with bad weather, and the ditching characteristics of the Avenger, meant that there was little hope of rescue, even if they had managed to stay afloat.\n\nIt is possible that Taylor overshot Castaway Cay and instead reached another land mass in southern Abaco Island. He then proceeded northwest as planned. He fully expected to find the Grand Bahama Island lying in front of him as expected. Instead, he eventually saw a land mass to his right side, the northern part of Abaco Island. Believing that this landmass to his right was the Grand Bahama Island and his compass was malfunctioning, he set a course to what he thought was southwest to head straight back to Fort Lauderdale. However, in reality this changed his course farther northwest, toward open ocean.\n\nTo further add to his confusion, he encountered a series of islands north of Abaco Island, which looks very similar to the Key West Islands. The control tower then suggested that Taylor's team should fly west, which would have taken them to the landmass of Florida eventually. Taylor headed for what he thought was west, but in reality was northwest, almost parallel to Florida.\n\nAfter trying that for a while and with no land in sight, Taylor decided that it was impossible for them to fly so far west and not reach Florida. He believed that he might have been near the Key West Islands. What followed was a series of serious confusions between Taylor, his team and the control tower. Taylor was not sure whether he was near Bahama or Key West, and he was not sure which direction was which due to compass malfunction. The control tower informed Taylor that he could not be in Key West since the wind that day did not blow that way. Some of his teammates believed that their compass was working. Taylor then set a course northeast according to their compass, which should take them to Florida if they were in Key West. When that failed, Taylor set a course west according to their compass, which should take them to Florida if they were in Bahama. If Taylor stayed this course he would have reached land before running out of fuel. However, at some point Taylor decided that he had tried going west enough. He then once again set a course northeast, thinking they were near Key West after all. Finally, his flight ran out of fuel and may have crashed into the ocean somewhere north of Abaco Island and east of Florida.\n\nIn 1986, the wreckage of an Avenger was found off the Florida coast during the search for the wreckage of the Space Shuttle \"Challenger\". Aviation archaeologist Jon Myhre raised this wreck from the ocean floor in 1990. He mistakenly believed it was one of the missing planes.\n\nIn 1991, a treasure-hunting expedition led by Graham Hawkes announced that the wreckage of five Avengers had been discovered off the coast of Florida, but that tail numbers revealed they were not Flight 19. In 2004 a BBC documentary showed Hawkes returning with a new submersible 12 years later and identifying one of the planes by its bureau number (a clearly readable 23990) as a flight lost at sea on 9 October 1943, over two years before Flight 19 (its crew all survived), but he was unable to definitively identify the other planes; the documentary concluded that \"Despite the odds, they are just a random collection of accidents that came to rest in the same place 12 miles from home.\" But in March 2012 Hawkes was reported as stating that it had suited both him (and indirectly his investors) and the Pentagon to make the story go away because it was an expensive and time-consuming distraction, and that, while admitting he had found no conclusive evidence, he now thought he had, in fact, found Flight 19.\n\nRecords showed training accidents between 1942 and 1945 accounted for the loss of 95 aviation personnel from NAS Fort Lauderdale In 1992, another expedition located scattered debris on the ocean floor, but nothing could be identified. In the last decade, searchers have been expanding their area to include farther east, into the Atlantic Ocean, but the remains of Flight 19 have still never been confirmed found.\n\nA 2015 newspaper report claimed a wrecked warplane with two bodies inside was retrieved by the Navy In the mid-1960s near Sebastian, Florida. The Navy initially said it was from Flight 19 but later recanted its statement. \nDespite Freedom of Information Act requests for details in 2013, the names are still not known because the Navy does not have enough information to identify the bodies. In fact this was a post World War II Avenger wreck in which the pilot was killed. \n\nThe flight leader, Lieutenant Charles Carroll Taylor (born October 25, 1917), graduated from Naval Air Station Corpus Christi in February 1942 and became a flight instructor in October of that year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13263438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13263438", "title": "Forebulge", "text": "Forebulge\n\nIn geology, a forebulge is a flexural bulge in front of a load on the lithosphere. The load causes the lithosphere to flex by depressing the plate beneath it. Because of the flexural rigidity of the lithosphere, the area around the load is uplifted by a height that is 4% of that of the depression under the load. The load and the resulting flexure place stress on the mantle, causing it to flow into the area around the loaded area. The subsidence of the area under the load and the uplift of the forebulge continue until the load is in isostatic equilibrium, a process that takes on the order of 10,000 to 20,000 years. Because of the coupling with the mantle, the rate of forebulge formation and collapse is controlled by mantle viscosity.\n\nOne cause for forebulge formation is loading of the continental lithosphere by ice sheets during continental glaciations. Because of the removal of the ice sheets, the formerly-glaciated areas are currently rising in a phenomenon known as post-glacial rebound. Because of the coupling of the mantle with the plates, data from post-glacial rebound are used as a direct probe of the viscosity of the upper mantle. As the ice melts and the land under it rises by isostatic recovery, the forebulge also subsides. Forebulge subsidence is the reason why the Netherlands and parts of southern England are still slowly sinking. One estimate is that the centre of the North Sea rose by about 170 m (558 ft) during the Ice Age because of forebulging.\n\nCollisions between tectonic plates and island arcs lead to loading and flexure of the lithosphere. The flexure produces a significant forebulge, which divides a forearc basin and a back arc basin.\n\nThe existence of a forebulge is predicted by the solution to the equations for the flexure of a thin elastic beam or plate (the lithosphere). The magnitude of the flexure goes as an exponentially decaying sinusoid. The lithosphere is therefore anomalously high at a flexural half-wavelength past the load; the flexural wavelength is determined in large part by the elastic thickness of the lithosphere.\n\n"}
{"id": "12533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12533", "title": "Geocaching", "text": "Geocaching\n\nGeocaching is an outdoor recreational activity, in which participants use a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver or mobile device and other navigational techniques to hide and seek containers, called \"geocaches\" or \"caches\", at specific locations marked by coordinates all over the world.\n\nA typical cache is a small waterproof container containing a logbook and sometimes a pen or pencil. The geocacher signs the log with their established code name and dates it, in order to prove that they found the cache. After signing the log, the cache must be placed back exactly where the person found it. Larger containers such as plastic storage containers (Tupperware or similar) or ammunition boxes can also contain items for trading, such as toys or trinkets, usually of more sentimental worth than financial. Geocaching shares many aspects with benchmarking, trigpointing, orienteering, treasure-hunting, letterboxing, waymarking and Munzee.\n\nGeocaching was originally similar to the 160-year-old game letterboxing, which uses clues and references to landmarks embedded in stories. Geocaching was conceived shortly after the removal of Selective Availability from the Global Positioning System on May 2, 2000, because the improved accuracy of the system allowed for a small container to be specifically placed and located. The first documented placement of a GPS-located cache took place on May 3, 2000, by Dave Ulmer of Beavercreek, Oregon. The location was posted on the Usenet newsgroup sci.geo.satellite-nav at . Within three days, the cache had been found twice, first by Mike Teague. According to Dave Ulmer's message, this cache was a black plastic bucket that was partially buried and contained software, videos, books, money, a can of beans, and a slingshot. The geocache and most of its contents were eventually destroyed by a lawn mower; the can of beans was the only item salvaged and was turned into a trackable item called the \"Original Can of Beans\". Another geocache and plaque called the Original Stash Tribute Plaque now sit at the site.\n\nThe activity was originally referred to as the \"GPS stash hunt\" or \"gpsstashing.\" This was changed shortly after the original hide when it was suggested in the gpsstash eGroup that \"stash\" could have negative connotations and the term \"geocaching\" was adopted.\n\nOver time, a variety of different hide-and-seek-type activities have been created or abandoned, so that \"geocaching\" may now refer to hiding and seeking containers, or locations or information without containers.\n\nAn independent accounting of the early history documents several controversial actions taken by Irish and Grounded, Inc., a predecessor to Groundspeak, to increase \"commercialization and monopolistic control over the hobby\". More recently, other similar hobbies such as Munzee have attracted some geocachers by rapidly adopting smart-phone technology, which has caused \"some resistance from geocaching organizers about placing caches along with munzees\".\n\nFor the traditional geocache, a geocacher will place a waterproof container containing a log book (with pen and/or pencil) and trade items or trackables, then record the cache's coordinates. These coordinates, along with other details of the location, are posted on a listing site (see list of some sites below). Other geocachers obtain the coordinates from that listing site and seek out the cache using their handheld GPS receivers. The finding geocachers record their exploits in the logbook and online, but then must return the cache to the same coordinates so that other geocachers may find it. Geocachers are free to take objects (except the logbook, pencil, or stamp) from the cache in exchange for leaving something of similar or higher value.\n\nTypical cache \"treasures\", also known in the geocaching world as swag, are not high in monetary value but may hold personal value to the finder. Aside from the logbook, common cache contents are unusual coins or currency, small toys, ornamental buttons, CDs, or books. Although not required, many geocachers decide to leave behind signature items, such as personal Geocoins, pins, or craft items, to mark their presence at the cache location. Disposable cameras are popular as they allow for anyone who found the cache to take a picture which can be developed and uploaded to a Geocaching web site listed below. Also common are objects that are moved from cache to cache called \"hitchhikers\", such as Travel Bugs or Geocoins, whose travels may be logged and followed online. Cachers who initially place a Travel Bug or Geocoins often assign specific goals for their trackable items. Examples of goals are to be placed in a certain cache a long distance from home, or to travel to a certain country, or to travel faster and farther than other hitchhikers in a race. Less common trends are site-specific information pages about the historic significance of the site, types of trees, birds in the area or other such information. Higher-value items are occasionally included in geocaches as a reward for the First to Find (called \"FTF\"), or in locations which are harder to reach. Dangerous or illegal items, weapons, food and drugs are not allowed and are specifically against the rules of most geocache listing sites.\n\nIf a geocache has been vandalized or stolen, it is said to have been \"muggled\". The former term plays off the fact that those not familiar with geocaching are called muggles, a term borrowed from the \"Harry Potter\" series of books which was rising in popularity at the same time geocaching got its start.\n\nTraditional geocaching gave birth to GeoCaching – an active urban game of the Encounter project. The game is quite similar to geocaching but has time limitations and hints.\n\nGeocaches vary in size, difficulty, and location. Simple caches that are placed near a roadside are often called \"drive-bys\", \"park 'n grabs\" (PNGs), or \"cache and dash\". Geocaches may also be complex, involving lengthy searches, significant travel, or use of specialist equipment such as SCUBA diving, kayaking, or abseiling. Different geocaching websites list different variations per their own policies.\n\nContainer sizes range from \"nanos\", particularly magnetic nanos, which can be smaller than the tip of a finger and have only enough room to store the log sheet, to 20-liter (5 gallon) buckets or even larger containers, such as entire trucks. The most common cache containers in rural areas are lunch-box-sized plastic storage containers or surplus military ammunition cans. Ammo cans are considered the gold standard of containers because they are very sturdy, waterproof, animal- and fire-resistant, relatively cheap, and have plenty of room for trade items. Smaller containers are more common in urban areas because they can be more easily hidden.\n\nCaches can be grouped in three categories – with and without a paper log, and events.\n\nThe following types do not have paper logs.\n\nA BIT Cache is a laminated card with a QR code, similar to Munzee. The BIT Cache also contains a URL and a password, for logging purposes. They are listed exclusively on opencaching.us.\nVirtual caches are coordinates for a location, which has some other described object. Validation for finding a virtual cache generally requires one to email the cache hider with information such as a date or a name on a plaque, or to post a picture of oneself at the site with GPS receiver in hand. New virtual caches are no longer allowed by Groundspeak, but they remain supported by other sites.\n\nEarthcaches are virtual caches that are organized by the Geological Society of America. The cacher usually has to perform a task which teaches him/her an educational lesson about the earth science of the cache area.\n\nLocationless/Reverse caches are similar to a scavenger hunt. A description is given for something to find, such as a one-room schoolhouse, and the finder locates an example of this object. The finder records the location using their GPS receiver and often takes a picture at the location showing the named object and his or her GPS receiver. Typically others are not allowed to log that same location as a find.\n\nWebcam caches are virtual caches whose coordinates have a public webcam. The finder is often required to capture their image from the webcam for verification of the find. New webcam caches are no longer allowed by Groundspeak, but they remain supported by other sites.\n\nFinally, a USB Cache or Dead Drop cache location has a USB drive embedded (with permission) into walls or other structures. The cache is retrieved by connecting a device that has a USB port and that is able to read standard text files.\n\nThe following types have logs, at least at the final location.\n\nA Multi-cache consists of multiple discoveries of one or more intermediate points containing the coordinates for the next stage; the final stage contains the log book. An Offset cache is a multi-cache in which the initial coordinates are for a location containing information that encodes the final cache coordinates. An example would be to direct the finder to a plaque where the digits of a date on the plaque correspond to coordinates of the final cache.\n\nA Night Cache is multi-stage and intended to be found at night by following a series of reflectors with a flashlight to the final cache location.\n\nA Chirp Cache is a Garmin-created innovative advance on multi caches using new wireless beacon technology. The Chirp stores hints, multicache coordinates, counts visitors and confirms the cache is nearby. These caches were fully supported at OpenCaching.com, but they caused considerable discussion and some controversy at Groundspeak, where they were given a new \"attribute\".\n\nA Wherigo cache is a multi-stage cache hunt that uses a Wherigo \"cartridge\" to guide the player to find a physical cache sometime during cartridge play, usually at the end. Not all Wherigo cartridges incorporate geocaches into game play. Wherigo caches are unique to the geocaching.com website.\n\nGuest Book Caches use guest books often found in museums, tourist information centers, etc. They are listed exclusively at Opencaching.us.\n\nA Letterbox Hybrid Cache is a combination of a geocache and a letterbox in the same container. A letterbox has a rubber stamp and a logbook instead of tradable items. Letterboxers carry their own stamp with them, to stamp the letterbox's log book and inversely stamp their personal log book with the letterbox stamp. The hybrid cache contains the important materials for this and may or may not include trade items. Whether the letterbox hybrid contains trade items is up to the owner.\n\nMoving/Travelling caches are found at a listed set of coordinates. The finder hides the cache in a different location, and updates the listing, essentially becomes the hider, and the next finder continues the cycle. This cache type is supported by multiple sites.\n\nMystery/puzzle caches require one to discover information or solve a puzzle to find the cache. Some mystery caches provide a false set of coordinates with a puzzle that must be solved to determine the final cache location. In other cases, the given location is accurate, but the name of the location or other features are themselves a puzzle leading to the final cache. Alternatively, additional information is necessary to complete the find, such as a padlock combination to access the cache. Finally, Challenge Caches, (a subtype of the Mystery cache) require a geocacher to complete a reasonably attainable geocaching-related task before being able to log the find. Examples include finding a number of caches that meet a category, completing a number of cache finds within a period of time, or finding a cache for every calendar day, etc.\nThere are a few kinds of events.\n\nAn Event Cache is a gathering organized and attended by geocachers.\n\nCache-In Trash-Out (CITO) Events are coordinated activities of trash pickup and other maintenance tasks (such as constructing footpaths, planting trees and removing invasive species) to improve the environment. CITO is an ongoing environmental initiative created by Groundspeak Inc. related to geocaching which encourages geocachers to clean up parks and other areas. This is done in two ways: specific events, traditionally around the time of Earth Day each year, in which groups go around picking up litter and maintaining the landscape while finding geocaches.\n\nA Mega Event is defined by attendance of over 500 people. Mega Events are typically annual events, usually attracting geocachers from all over the world.\n\nA Giga Event is an event with an attendance of over 5000 people, also attracting geocachers from worldwide.\n\nFinally, a GPS Adventures Maze Exhibit is an exhibit at various museums and science centers in which participants in the maze learn about geocaching. These \"events\" have their own cache type on Geocaching.com and include many non-geocachers.\n\nGeodashing is an outdoor sport in which teams of players use GPS receivers to find and visit randomly selected \"dashpoints\" (also called \"waypoints\") around the world and report what they find. The objective is to visit as many dashpoints as possible.\n\nUnlike geocaching, nothing is to be left at the dashpoints; the sole objective is to visit them within the time limit.\n\nThe first game, organized by gpsgames.org, ran for two months (June and July 2001); each subsequent game has run for one month. Players are often encouraged to take pictures at the dashpoints and upload them to the site.\n\nGeocaching from space is a combination of flight to near space, the geocaching game, and a unique science experiment. The first Stratocaching event was held on 16 November 2013 in Prague and was successful. Ten caches and two \"radioseeds\" went up to into the stratosphere on a gondola called Dropion module carried by a high-altitude balloon. The caches and seeds then fell to earth for people to find.\n\nGPX files containing information such as a cache description and information about recent visitors to the cache are available from various listing sites. Geocachers may upload geocache data (also known as waypoints) from various websites in various formats, most commonly in file-type GPX, which uses XML. Some websites allow geocachers to search (build queries) for multiple caches within a geographic area based on criteria such as ZIP code or coordinates, downloading the results as an email attachment on a schedule. In recent years, Android and iPhone users have been able to download apps such as GeoBeagle that allow them to use their 3G and GPS-enabled devices to actively search for and download new caches.\n\nA variety of geocaching applications are available for geocache data management, file-type translation, and personalization. Geocaching software can assign special icons or search (filter) for caches based on certain criteria (e.g. distance from an assigned point, difficulty, date last found).\n\nPaperless geocaching means hunting a geocache without a physical printout of the cache description. Traditionally, this means that the seeker has an electronic means of viewing the cache information in the field, such as pre-downloading the information to a PDA or other electronic device. Various applications are able to directly upload and read GPX files without further conversion. Newer GPS devices released by Garmin, DeLorme and Magellan have the ability to read GPX files directly, thus eliminating the need for a PDA. Other methods include viewing real-time information on a portable computer with internet access or with a Internet-enabled smart phone. The latest advancement of this practice involves installing dedicated applications on a smart phone with a built-in GPS receiver. Seekers can search for and download caches in their immediate vicinity directly to the application and use the on-board GPS receiver to find the cache.\n\nA more controversial version of paperless caching involves mass-downloading only the coordinates and cache names (or waypoint IDs) for hundreds of caches into older receivers. This is a common practice of some cachers and has been used successfully for years. In many cases, however, the cache description and hint are never read by the seeker before hunting the cache. This means they are unaware of potential restrictions such as limited hunt times, park open/close times, off-limit areas, and suggested parking locations.\n\nThe website geocaching.com now sells mobile applications which allow users to view caches through a variety of different devices. Currently, the Android, iPhone, and Windows Phone mobile platforms have applications in their respective stores. The apps also allow for a trial version with limited functionality.\n\nAdditionally \"c:geo - opensource\" is a free opensource full function application for Android phones that is very popular. This app includes similar features to the official Geocaching mobile application, such as: View caches on a live map (Google Maps or OpenStreet Maps), navigation using a compass, map, or other applications, logging finds online and offline, etc.\n\nGeocaching enthusiasts have also made their own hand-held GPS devices using a Lego Mindstorms NXT GPS sensor.\n\nGeocache listing websites have their own guidelines for acceptable geocache publications. Government agencies and others responsible for public use of land often publish guidelines for geocaching, and a \"Geocacher's Creed\" posted on the Internet asks participants to \"avoid causing disruptions or public alarm\". Generally accepted rules are to not endanger others, to minimize the impact on nature, to respect private property, and to avoid public alarm.\n\nThe reception from authorities and the general public outside geocache participants has been mixed to hostile.\n\nCachers have been approached by police and questioned when they were seen as acting suspiciously. Other times, investigation of a cache location after suspicious activity was reported has resulted in police and bomb squad discovery of the geocache, such as the evacuation of a busy street in Wetherby, Yorkshire, England in 2011.\n\nSchools have also been evacuated when a cache has been seen by teachers or police, such as the case of Fairview High School in Boulder, Colorado in 2009. A number of caches have been destroyed by bomb squads. Diverse locations, from rural cemeteries to Disneyland, have been locked down as a result of such scares.\n\nThe placement of geocaches has occasional critics among some government personnel and the public at large who consider it littering. Some geocachers act to mitigate this perception by picking up litter while they search for geocaches, a practice referred to in the community as \"Cache In Trash Out\". Events and caches are often organized revolving around this practice, with many areas seeing significant cleanup that would otherwise not take place, or would instead require federal, state or local funds to accomplish. Geocachers are also encouraged to clean up after themselves by retrieving old containers once a cache has been removed from play.\n\nGeocaching is legal in every country except North Korea (where GPS and all other mobile devices are illegal to possess) and is usually positively received when explained to law enforcement officials. However, certain types of placements can be problematic. Although generally disallowed, hiders could place caches on private property without adequate permission (intentionally or otherwise), which encourages cache finders to trespass. Caches might also be hidden in places where the act of searching can make a finder look suspicious (e.g. near schools, children's playgrounds, banks, courthouses, or in residential neighborhoods), or where the container placement could be mistaken for a drug stash or a bomb (especially in urban settings, under bridges, near banks, courthouses, or embassies). As a result, geocachers are strongly advised to label their geocaches where possible, so that they are not mistaken for a harmful object if discovered by non-geocachers. \n\nAs well as concerns about littering and bomb threats, some geocachers hide their caches in inappropriate locations, such as electrical boxes, that may encourage risky behaviour, especially amongst children. Hides in these areas are discouraged, and cache listing websites enforce guidelines that disallow certain types of placements. However, as cache reviewers typically cannot see exactly where and how every particular cache is hidden, problematic hides can slip through. Ultimately it is also up to cache finders to use discretion when attempting to search for a cache, and report any problems.\n\nRegional rules for placement of caches have become quite complex. For example, in Virginia, the Virginia Department of Transportation and the Wildlife Management Agency now forbids the placement of geocaches on all land controlled by those agencies. Some cities, towns and recreation areas allow geocaches with few or no restrictions, but others require compliance with lengthy permitting procedures.\n\nThe South Carolina House of Representatives passed Bill 3777 in 2005, stating, \"It is unlawful for a person to engage in the activity of geocaching or letterboxing in a cemetery or in an historic or archeological site or property publicly identified by an historical marker without the express written consent of the owner or entity which oversees that cemetery site or property.\" The bill was referred to committee on first reading in the Senate and has been there ever since.\n\nSeveral deaths have occurred while geocaching. The death of a 21-year-old experienced cacher, in December 2011, \"while attempting a Groundspeak cache that does not look all that dangerous,\" led to discussion in Groundspeak forums of whether changes should be made, and whether cache owners or Groundspeak could be held liable. Groundspeak have since updated their geocaching.com Terms of Use Agreement which specifies that geocachers find geocaches at their own risk.\n\nIn 2008, two lost hikers on Mount Hood, Oregon, after spending the night in a snow cave, stumbled across a geocache and were able to phone this information out to rescuers, resulting in their timely rescue.\n\nThree adult geocachers, a 24-year-old woman and her parents, were trapped in a cave and rescued by firefighters in Rochester, New York, while searching for an ammo can in 2012. Rochester Fire Department spokesman Lt. Ted Kuppinger said, \"It's difficult because you're invested in it you want to find something like that so people will probably try to push themselves more than they should but you need to be prudent about what you're capable of doing.\"\n\nIn 2015, the coastguard were called to a group of geocachers who were spotted walking into the Severn Estuary off the coast of Clevedon, England, in search of clues to a multi-cache. Although they felt they were safe and were able to return to land, they were considered to be in danger and were airlifted back to the shore.\n\nIn October 2016, four people discovered a crashed car at the bottom of a ravine in Benton, Washington, while out geocaching. They spotted the driver still trapped inside, and alerted the emergency services who effected a rescue.\n\nOn 9 June 2018 four people in Prague were surprised by a strong sudden storm while searching for a cache in 4 km long underground tunnel. They were carried by the tidal wave for almost the whole length of the tunnel to the Vltava river where the tunnel ends. One woman was found dead in the river a few hours later. Six days later a second body, that of a man in the group, was found in the river. Two exhausted drowning people were rescued from the river suffering mostly from numerous bruises and blunt traumas.\n\nNumerous websites list geocaches around the world. Geocaching websites vary in many ways, including control of data.\n\nThe first website to list geocaches was announced by Mike Teague on May 8, 2000. On September 2, 2000, Jeremy Irish emailed the gpsstash mailing list that he had registered the domain name geocaching.com and had set up his own Web site. He copied the caches from Mike Teague's database into his own. On September 6, Mike Teague announced that Jeremy Irish was taking over cache listings. , Teague had logged only 5 caches.\n\nThe largest site is Geocaching.com, owned by Groundspeak Inc., which began operating in late 2000. With a worldwide membership and a freemium business model, the website claims millions of caches and members in over 200 countries. Hides and events are reviewed by volunteer regional cache reviewers before publication. Free membership allows users access to coordinates, descriptions, and logs for some caches; for a fee, users are allowed additional search tools, the ability to download large amounts of cache information onto their gps at once, instant email notifications about new caches, and access to premium-member-only caches.\n\nThe website no longer lists new caches without a physical container, including virtual and webcam caches; however, older caches of these types have been grandfathered in (except for locationless/reverse, which are completely archived). On August 24, 2017, Groundspeak announced \"Virtual Rewards\", allowing 4000 new virtual caches to be placed during the following year. Earthcaches are one of the two exceptions to the no-container rule; they are caches in which players must answer geological questions to complete the cache. The other exception is for event caches; for an event to qualify, it must be specifically or mainly for geocachers, and must have a minimum duration dependent upon its category (CITO, regular, Mega, or Giga). Attendees of event caches can log that they 'attended', which will increment their number of found caches. Groundspeak created a waymarking website to handle all other non-physical caches.\n\nGeocaching.com has its own geocache size classification scale; geocachers must pick a size from one of the options before submitting a geocache listing through the website. The sizes are:\n\n\nLike size rating, the difficulty and terrain rating of a geocache must be selected from a scale before submitting a listing through the site. Geocachers must select the difficulty star rating from a scale between 1 and 5 stars, increasing in half a star increments, where 1 is the easiest and 5 is the most difficult. Terrain must also be rated on the same scale, with 1 being the most accessible flat ground, and 5 involving specialist equipment such as SCUBA or rock climbing gear.\n\nAnother feature of the game are Travel Bugs. These are objects attached to a tracking tag that looks like a military dog tag. Technically the dog tag is the \"travel bug\" and the attached object is called the \"hitchhiker\" but everyone calls the combination a Travel Bug. The tracking tags come from Geocaching.com. You add your own traveler. The original concept was, a geocacher picks up a Bug from one geocache (usually just called a 'cache' by geocachers) and leaves it in another (it's how they travel). Travel Bugs have their own page on the website where owners can define a mission for the bug. For example, the bug in the picture's mission was to go to the moon, but in the meantime to visit every state in the continental U.S. according to a specific pattern. People who move a bug go to the bug's page to record the move using the tracking number on the dog tag. If it's in the bug's mission, and the owner is lucky, their bug can travel all over the world. They're notified of every place it stops and can view any pictures the cacher who moved it might have added.\n\nA while ago the ability was added to \"discover\" Travel Bugs. Now, you can record the tracking number while at the cache the bug is in (picture with cell phone is common) then on its page log that you discovered it.\n\nThe website also supports the discovery of benchmarks in the USA. There are currently no benchmarks outside the USA in its database. The website provides the best known longitude and latitude (sometimes accurate to within only six or more seconds) of the object along with a description. Hunters use the clues to try to find the benchmark; the benchmark can be logged as Found, Not Found, Note, or Destroyed. The \"Destroyed\" log should be used only if there is evidence that the mark has been permanently destroyed.\n\nNOTE: The Geocaching.com benchmark data has not been updated in 18 years.\n\nGroundspeak allows extraterrestrial caches, e.g. the Moon or Mars, although presently, the website provides only earthbound coordinates. Thus the cache that exists on the International Space Station, GC1BE91, uses the launch area Baikonur in Kazakhstan as its position.\n\nThe site promotes mobile applications, and lists over two dozen applications (both mobile and browser/desktop based) that are using their proprietary but royalty-free public API. Developers at c:geo have criticised Groundspeak for being incompatible with open-source development.\n\nThe Opencaching Network provides independent, non-commercial listing sites based in the cacher's country or region. The Opencaching Network lists the most types of caches, including traditional, virtual, moving, multi, quiz, webcam, BIT, guest book, USB, event and MP3. The Opencaching Network is less restrictive than many sites, and does not charge for the use of the sites, the service being community driven. Some (or all) listings may or may not be required to be reviewed by community volunteers before being published and although cross-listing is permitted, it is discouraged. Some listings are listed on other sites, but there are many that are unique to the Opencaching Network. Features include the ability to organize one's favourite caches, build custom searches, be instantly notified of new caches in one's area, seek and create caches of all types, export GPX queries, statpics, etc. Each Opencaching Node provides the same API for free (called \"OKAPI\") for use by developers who want to create third-party applications able to use the Opencaching Network's content.\n\nCountries with associated opencaching websites include the United States at www.opencaching.us; Germany at www.opencaching.de; Sweden at www.opencaching.se; Poland at www.opencaching.pl; Czech Republic at www.opencaching.cz; Norway at www.opencaching.no; The Netherlands at www.opencaching.nl; Romania at www.opencaching.ro; the United Kingdom at www.opencaching.org.uk.\n\nThe main difference between opencaching and traditional listing sites is that all services are open to the users at no cost. Generally, most geocaching services or websites offer some basic information for free, but users may have to pay for premium membership that allows access to more information or advanced searching capabilities. This is not the case with opencaching; every geocache is listed and accessible to everyone for free.\n\nAdditionally, Opencaching sites allow users to rate and report on existing geocaches. This allows users to see what other cachers think of the cache and it encourages participants to place higher quality caches. The rating system also greatly reduces the problem of abandoned or unsatisfactory caches still being listed after repeated negative comments or posts in the cache logs.\n\nOpenCaching.com (short: OX) was a site created and run by Garmin from 2010-2015, which had the stated aim of being as free and open as possible with no paid content. Caches were approved by a community process and coordinates were available without an account. The service closed on 14 August 2015.\n\nIn many countries there are regional geocaching sites, but these mostly only compile lists of caches in the area from the three main sites. Many of them also accept unique listings of caches for their site, but these listings tend to be less popular than the international sites, although occasionally the regional sites may have more caches than the international sites. There are some exceptions though, e.g. in the former Soviet Union, the site Geocaching.su remains popular because it accepts listings in the Cyrillic script. Additional international sites include Geocaching.de, a German website, and Geocaching Australia, which accepts listings of cache types deprecated by geocaching.com, cache types such as TrigPoint and Moveable caches, as well as traditional geocache types.\n\nGPSgames.org is an online community dedicated to all kinds of games involving Global Positioning System receivers. GPSgames.org allows traditional geocaches as well as virtual, locationless, and traveler geocaches. Geodashing, Shutterspot, GeoVexilla, MinuteWar, GeoPoker, and GeoGolf are among the GPS games available. GPSgames.org has been 100% free since 2001, through donations.\n\nNavicache.com started as a regional listing service in 2001. While many of the website's listings have been posted to other sites, it also offers unique listings. The website lists nearly any type of geocache and does not charge to access any of the caches listed in its database. All submissions are reviewed and approved. Navicache is under transition to new owners, who said they \"plan to develop a site that geocachers want, with rules that geocachers think are suitable. Geocaching.com and OX are both backed by large enterprises, and while that means they have more funding and people, we’re a much smaller team – so our advantage is the ability to be dynamic and listen to the users.\"\n\nTerracaching.com seeks to provide high-quality caches made so by the difficulty of the hide or from the quality of the location. Membership is managed through a sponsorship system, and each cache is under continual peer review from other members. Terracaching.com embraces virtual caches alongside traditional or multi-stage caches and includes many locationless caches among the thousands of caches in its database. It is increasingly attracting members who like the point system. In Europe, TerraCaching is supported by Terracaching.eu. This site is translated in different European languages, has an extended FAQ and extra supporting tools for TerraCaching. TerraCaching strongly discourages caches that are listed on other sites (so-called double-listing).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2983750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2983750", "title": "Geographic regions of Greece", "text": "Geographic regions of Greece\n\nThe traditional geographic regions of Greece (, literally \"geographic departments\") are the country's main historical-geographic regions, and were also official administrative regional subdivisions of Greece until the 1987 administrative reform. Despite their replacement as first-level administrative units by the newly defined administrative regions (), the nine traditional geographic divisions—six on the mainland and three island groups—are still widely referred to in unofficial contexts and in daily discourse.\n\nAs of 2011, the official administrative divisions of Greece consist of 13 regions ()—nine on the mainland and four island groups—which are further subdivided into 74 regional units and 325 municipalities. Formerly, there were also 54 prefectures or prefectural-level administrations.\n\nThe regions shown on the map but not in the list are geographic regions, but they are not major. \n\n"}
{"id": "13693417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13693417", "title": "Geology of Chile", "text": "Geology of Chile\n\nThe geology of Chile is a characterized by processes linked to subduction such as volcanism, earthquakes and orogeny. The buildings blocks of Chile's geology assembled during the Paleozoic Era. Chile was by then the southwestern margin of the supercontinent Gondwana. In the Jurassic Gondwana begun to split and the ongoing period of crustal deformation and mountain building known as the Andean orogeny begun. In the Late Cenozoic Chile definitely separated from Antarctica, the Andes expienced a great rise accomplained by a cooling climate and the onset of glaciations. \n\nThe subduction interactions shaped four main morphostructures of Chile: the Andes; the Intermediate Depression, the Coast Range, and the Peru–Chile Trench off the coast. Since Chile is on an active continental margin, it has a large number of volcanoes. Almost the entire country is subject to earthquakes arising from strains in the Nazca and Antarctic Plates or shallow strike-slip faults. Northern Chilean mineral resources are a major economic resources, and the country is the leading producer of copper, lithium and molybdenum. Most of these mineral deposits were created from magmatic hydrothermal activity. The water required to form those deposits derived from the subducted slab of the oceanic crust beneath the Andes.\n\nThe Chilean Easter Island and Juan Fernández Archipelago are volcanic hotspot islands in the eastward-moving Nazca plate. The geology of the Chilean Antarctic Territory has various commonalitiers with that of mainland Chile.\n\nThe three primary morphological features derived from the Andes are the Andes Mountains proper, the Chilean Coast Range and the Chilean Central Valley, also known as the Intermediate Depression and the Longitudinal Valley. The mountains run parallel in a north-south direction from Morro de Arica to Taitao Peninsula, making up most of Chile's land surface. South of Taitao, only the Andes Mountains are present.\n\nNorth of the Taitao Peninsula, the Peru–Chile Trench subduction zone is the boundary between the South American and Nazca Plates. At Taitao, the Chile Triple Junction and the Nazca Plate subduct the South American Plate.\n\nIn Norte Grande the mountains form a series of plateaus, such as Puna de Atacama and the Altiplano. At a south latitude of 27 degrees, Chile's highest mountain (Ojos del Salado) reaches a height of . Below 42 degrees south, the Andes split into a fjord landscape and the highest mountain is Monte San Lorenzo at . As the mountains ebb, the snow line lowers; in the Llanquihue it is at , and in the Magallanes.\n\nThe Intermediate Depression, a series of faults running north to south, separates the Andes from the Coast Range with a steady decrease in altitude as the latitude increases. In Norte Grande the Intermediate Depression is partially covered by a series of salt flats, and has the world's largest potassium nitrate deposits. In Norte Chico, the depression disappears briefly before reappearing in a narrow valley at Santiago. From the narrows southward the valley widens until it is interrupted near Loncoche by the Bahía Mansa Metamorphic Complex (part of the Coast Range), then widening at Los Llanos (near Paillaco). In central and southern Chile (33°-42° south), the landscape is partially covered with glacial sediments from the Andes. In Zona Austral (south of 42° south) the depression dips below sea level, appearing occasionally in islands such as Chiloé. Its southern end is the Isthmus of Ofqui.\n\nThe Chilean Coast Range runs southward along the coast (parallel to the Andes) from Morro de Arica to Taitao Peninsula, ending at the Chile Triple Junction. The range, a combined horst, forearc high and accretionary wedge, was separated from the Andes during the Tertiary rise due to the subsidence of the Intermediate Depression.\n\nThe oldest rocks in Chile are micaceous schists, phyllites, gneisses and quartzites, many examples of which are found in the Coast Range of south-central Chile. The schists of southern Chile were initially formed by sediment in the proto-Pacific Ocean, and later metamorphosed in the forearc wedge of the Peru–Chile Trench.\n\nDuring the Triassic Period about 250 million years ago Chile was part of the supercontinent Pangaea, which concentrated the world's major land masses. Africa, Antarctica, Australia and India were near Chile. When Pangaea began to split apart during the Jurassic period, South America and the adjacent land masses formed Gondwana. Floral affinities among these now-distant landmasses date from the Gondwanaland period. South America separated from Antarctica and Australia 27 million years ago with the development of the Drake Passage. Across the -wide Drake Passage lie the mountains of the Antarctic Peninsula, south of the Scotia Plate, which appear to be a continuation of the Andes. In the extreme south, the Magallanes–Fagnano Fault separates Tierra del Fuego from the small Scotia Plate.\n\nThe formation of the Andes began during the Jurassic. During the Cretaceous, the Andes began to assume their present form by the uplifting, faulting and folding of sedimentary and metamorphic rocks of ancient cratons. Tectonic forces along the subduction zone along the west coast of South America continue to their orogenesis, resulting in earthquakes and volcanic eruptions to this day.\n\nThe Altiplano plateau was formed during the Tertiary, with several mechanisms proposed; all attempt to explain why the topography of the Andes incorporates a large area of low relief at high altitude (high plateau): \n\nThe Quaternary glaciations left visible marks in most parts of Chile, particularly Zona Sur and Zona Austral. These include ice fields, fjords, glacial lakes and u-shaped valleys. During the Santa María glaciation glaciers extended into the Pacific Ocean at 42° south, dividing the Chilean Coast Range and creating what is now Chacao Channel. Chiloé, part of the Chilean Coast Range, became an island. South of Chacao Channel, Chile's coast is split by fjords, islands and channels; these glaciers created moraines at the edges of the Patagonian lakes, changing their outlets to the Pacific and shifting the continental divide. The remnants of the Patagonian Ice Sheet which covered large parts of Chile and Argentina are the Northern and the Southern Patagonian Ice Fields.\n\nIt has been suggested that from 1675 to 1850 the San Rafael Glacier advanced during the Little Ice Age. The first documented visit to the area was made in 1675 by the Spanish explorer , who entered San Rafael Lagoon through (\"Ice Floe River\") without mentioning the many ice floes for which the river is named. De Vea also wrote that the San Rafael Glacier did not reach far into the lagoon. In 1766 another expedition noticed that the glacier did reach the lagoon and had calved into icebergs. Hans Steffen visited the area in 1898, noting that the glacier now penetrated far into the lagoon. As of 2001, the glacier has retreated behind its 1675 border due to climate change.\n\nEaster Island is a volcanic high island consisting of three extinct volcanoes: Terevaka, at an altitude of , forms the bulk of the island. Two other volcanoes (Poike and Rano Kau) form the eastern and southern headlands, giving the island its triangular shape. There are numerous lesser cones and other volcanic features: the crater Rano Raraku, the cinder cone Puna Pau and many volcanic caves (including lava tubes).\nEaster Island and its surrounding islets, including Motu Nui and Motu Iti, form the comminuted apex of a large volcanic mountain rising over from the seabed. It is part of the Sala y Gómez Ridge, a mostly-submarine mountain range with dozens of seamounts. Pukao and Moai are two seamounts west of Easter Island, extending east to the Nazca Seamount. Pukao, Moai and Easter Island were formed during the last 750,000 years, with the last eruption a little over 100,000 years ago. These are the youngest mountains of the Sala y Gómez Ridge, which was formed by the Nazca Plate floating over the Easter hotspot. Only on Easter Island is the Sala y Gómez Ridge dry land.\n\nThe volcanic Juan Fernández Islands were created by a hotspot in the Earth's mantle penetrating the Nazca Plate. The islands were carried eastward as the plate subducted the South American continent. Radiometric dating indicates that Santa Clara is the oldest of the islands (at 5.8 million years), followed by Robinson Crusoe (3.8–4.2 million years) and Alexander Selkirk (1.0–2.4 million years). Robinson Crusoe is the largest of the islands at , and its highest peak (El Yunque) is high. Alexander Selkirk covers , and its highest peak is Los Innocentes at . Santa Clara covers , reaching an elevation of .\n\nChile has the world's largest copper reserves, and is the largest producer and exporter of the metal. Notable copper mines include Chuquicamata and Escondida. Chile accounts for five percent of the Western Hemisphere's gold production, of which 41 percent is a by-product of copper extraction. The country holds the largest world reserves of rhenium and potassium nitrate, and its reserves of molybdenum are estimated to be the third-largest in the world. Most of Chile’s mineral resources are in the north; gas, coal and oil reserves, in the southern Magallanes Region, are sufficient for local needs. Guarello Island, in the Magallanes Region, has the world's southernmost limestone mine.\n\nSince 2000, geothermal exploration and concessions have been regulated by the Law of Geothermal Concessions (). The Chilean company Geotermia del Pacífico, with support from CORFO, is exploring a location in Curacautín as a site for a geothermal power plant. Geotermia del Paícifco's studies indicated that two geothermal fields near Curacautín could be used for energy production, with a combined capacity to supply 36,000 homes in 2010. One area to be developed is located near the Tolhuaca hot springs, and the other is in Río Blanco Springs. Another area under consideration for geothermal production is Cordón Caulle.\n\nAlthough geology-focused tourism is rare, there are some sites in which the local geology is a major attraction (for example, the copper mine at Chuquicamata).\n\nEarthquakes, volcanic eruptions and mass ground movements are frequent occurrences. The subduction zone along Chile's coast has produced the most powerful earthquake ever recorded, the 1960 Valdivia earthquake. Earthquakes are notorious for triggering volcanic eruptions, such as the 1960 Cordón Caulle eruption. Chilean earthquakes have produced tsunamis.\n\nLandslides occur frequently in the Andes, most following earthquakes. The 2007 Aysén Fjord earthquakes produced several landslides along the Fjords Mountains, spawning a tsunami. Lahars are among the most lethal volcanic hazards in Chile; a lahar destroyed the original site of Coñaripe.\n\nMajor earthquakes in Chile occur in a small number of source areas. Those affecting coastal regions are generally aligned offshore from Concepción southward, with the major epicenters producing a predictable pattern of seismic and tsunami effects. The first systematic seismological recordings in Chile began after an earthquake and fire devastated Valparaiso in 1906.\n\nEarthquakes in northern Chile are known to have caused both uplift and subsidence of the continent. Large earthquakes of Magnitude 8 or more are associated with subsidence and drowning of the Chilean coast, except peninsulas and offshore islands. Magnitude 7 to 8 earthquakes with a source area near an internal boundary of the Earth known as the Moho are known to result in uplift of the coast. Earthquakes near the Moho may account for permanent deformation of the western edge of South American plate that accumulates into a long-term net uplift of the continent.\n\nAlthough the most powerful six quakes recorded were clustered in two time periods (a 12-year span from 1952 to 1964 and a seven-year span from 2004 to 2011), this is considered a statistical anomaly. The phenomenon of comparably-large quakes on the same (or neighboring) faults within months of each other may be explained by geological mechanisms, but this does not fully demonstrate a relationship between events separated by longer periods and greater distances\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49492281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49492281", "title": "Global Relief Model", "text": "Global Relief Model\n\nA global relief model, sometimes also denoted as \"'global topography model\" or composite model, combines digital elevation model (DEM) data over land with digital bathymetry model (DBM) data over water-covered areas (oceans, lakes) to describe Earth’s relief. A relief model thus shows how Earth’s surface would look like in the absence of water or ice masses.\n\nThe relief is represented by a set of heights (elevations or depths) that refer to some height reference surface, often the mean sea level or the geoid. Global relief models are used for a variety of applications including geovisualization, geologic, geomorphologic and geophysical analyses, gravity field modelling as well as geo-statistics.\n\nGlobal relief models are always based on combinations of data sets from different remote sensing techniques. This is because there is no single remote sensing technique that would allow measurement of the relief both over dry and water-covered areas. Elevation data over land is often obtained from LIDAR or inSAR measurements, while bathymetry is acquired based on SONAR and altimetry. Global relief models may also contain elevations of the bedrock (sub-ice-topography) below the ice shields of Greenland and Antarctica. Ice sheet thickness, mostly measured through ice-penetrating RADAR, is subtracted from the ice surface heights to reveal the bedrock.\n\nWhile digital elevation models describe Earth’s land topography often with 1 to 3 arc-second resolution (e.g., from the SRTM or ASTER missions), the global bathymetry (e.g., SRTM30_PLUS) is known to a much lesser spatial resolution in the kilometre-range. The same holds true for models of the bedrock of Antarctica and Greenland. Therefore, global relief models are often constructed at 1 arc-minute resolution (corresponding to about 1.8 km postings). Some products such as the 30 and 15 arc-second resolution SRTM30_PLUS/ SRTM15_PLUS grids offer higher resolution to adequately represent SONAR depth measurements where available.\n\nData sets produced and released to the public include Earth2014, SRTM30_PLUS and ETOPO1.\n\nThe most recent global relief model is Earth2014, developed at Curtin University (Western Australia) and TU Munich (Germany). Earth2014 provides sets of 1 arc-min resolution global grids of Earth's relief in different representations based on the 2013 releases of bedrock and ice-sheet data over Antarctica (Bedmap2) and Greenland (Greenland Bedrock Topography), the 2013 SRTM_30PLUS bathymetry and 2008 SRTM V4.1 SRTM land topography.\n\nEarth2014 provides five different layers of height data, including Earth’s surface (lower interface of the atmosphere), topography and bathymetry of the oceans and major lakes, topography, bathymetry and bedrock, ice-sheet thicknesses and rock-equivalent topography. The Earth2014 global grids are provided as heights relative to the mean sea level, and as planetary radii relative to the centre of Earth, which show the shape of the Earth.\n\nSRTM30_PLUS is a combined bathymetry and topography model produced by Scripps Institution of Oceanography (California). The version 15_PLUS comes at 0.25 arc-min resolution (about 450 m postings), while the 30_PLUS version offers 0.5 arc-min (900 m) resolution. The bathymetric data in SRTM30_PLUS stems from depth soundings (SONAR) and from satellite altimetry. The bathymetric component of SRTM30_PLUS gets regularly updated with new or improved data sets in order to continuously improve and refine the description of the sea floor geometry. Over land areas, SRTM30 data from the USGS is included. SRTM30_PLUS provides background information for Google Earth and Google Maps.\n\nThe ETOPO1 1-arcmin global relief model, produced by the National Geophysical Data Center (Colorado), provides two layers of relief information. One layer represents the global relief including bedrock over Antarctica and Greenland, and another layer the global relief including ice surface heights. Both layers include bathymetry over the oceans and some of Earth’s major lakes. ETOPO1 land topography and ocean bathymetry relies on SRTM30 topography and a multitude of bathymetric surveys that have been merged. Historic versions of ETOPO1 are the ETOPO2 and ETOPO5 relief models (2 and 5 arc-min resolution).\n\nThe ETOPO1 global relief model is based on the 2001 Bedmap1 model of bedrock over Antarctica, which is now superseded by the significantly improved Bedmap2 bedrock data. The ETOPO1-contained information on ocean depths is superseded through several updates of the SRTM30_PLUS bathymetry.\n\n"}
{"id": "7717190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7717190", "title": "Hunt–Lenox Globe", "text": "Hunt–Lenox Globe\n\nThe Hunt–Lenox Globe or Lenox Globe, dating from ca. 1510, is the second- or third-oldest known terrestrial globe, after the Erdapfel of 1492. It is housed by the Rare Book Division of the New York Public Library.\n\nIt is notable as one of only two known instances of a historical map actually using the phrase \"HC SVNT DRACONES\" (in Latin \"hic sunt dracones\" means \"here are dragons\".)\n\nThe Lenox Globe is a hollow copper globe that measures in diameter and in circumference. It is two parts, joined at the equator and held together by a wire strung through holes at the poles.\n\nIt bears a striking resemblance to the Globus Jagellonicus, also tentatively dated to 1510.\n\nThe phrase \"HIC SVNT DRACONES\" appears on the eastern coast of Asia.\n\nThe globe's origins were unknown until 2013. It was purchased in Paris in 1855 by architect Richard Morris Hunt, who gave it to James Lenox, whose collection became part of the New York Public Library, where the globe still resides.\n\nIn his recollections, Henry Stevens recalled seeing the globe while dining with Mr. Hunt in 1870. Hunt was ambivalent about the globe, which he bought \"for a song\", and was allowing his children to toy with it. Stevens recognized its value and urged Hunt to store it in the Lenox Library, which he was designing at the time. Stevens also borrowed the globe to ascertain its age with the help of Julius Erasmus Hilgard, who worked for the Coast Survey—a predecessor to the U.S. National Geodetic Survey.\n\nA similar grapefruit-sized globe made from two halves of an ostrich egg was found in 2012 and is believed to date from 1504. It may be the oldest globe to show the New World. Stefaan Missinne, who analyzed the globe for the Washington Map Society journal \"Portolan\", said it was \"part of an important European collection for decades.\" After a year of research in which he consulted many experts, Missine concluded the Hunt–Lenox Globe was a copper cast of the egg globe.\n\nThe earliest known article on the globe was written by B. F. de Costa for the \"Magazine of American History\" in September 1879. Gabriel Gravier reprinted the article with additional comments in the \"Bulletin de la société normande de géographie\" later that year.\n\nHowever, neither article links \"hic sunt dracones\" to dragons. Da Costa writes:\nIn this region [China, called \"East India\" on the globe], near the equatorial line, is seen \"Hc Svnt Dracones\", or here are the Dagroians, described by Marco Polo as living in the Kingdom of \"Dagroian\". These people... feasted upon the dead and picked their bones (B.II. c.14, Ramusio's ed.)\nIn his translation of Da Costa's article, Gabriel Gravier adds that Marco Polo's Kingdom of Dagroian is in Java Minor, or Sumatra, well away from the spot indicated on the Lenox Globe.\n\nThe flat drawing of the globe which accompanied the early articles is reproduced as map 7 in Emerson D. Fite and Archibald Freeman's \"A Book of Old Maps Delineating American History\" (New York: Dover Reprints, 1969), and as figure 43 in A. E. Nordenskiöld's \"Facsimile-Atlas to the Early History of Cartography\" (New York: Dover Reprints, 1973).\n\nA photograph of the globe itself can be found on page 81 of Ena L. Yonge's \"A Catalogue of Early Globes Made Prior to 1850 and Conserved in the United States\" (New York: American Geographical Society, 1968); however, the side with the inscription faces away from the camera.\n\n"}
{"id": "19009267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19009267", "title": "Index of Christmas Island-related articles", "text": "Index of Christmas Island-related articles\n\nThis page list topics related to Christmas Island.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4277031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4277031", "title": "Index of gardening articles", "text": "Index of gardening articles\n\nThis is a list of gardening topics.\n\nAesthetics\n- African Violet Society of America\n- Allotment\n- Aquascaping\n- Arboretum\n- Architectural theory\n\nBonsai\n- Botanical gardens\n\nCalifornia native plants\n- Chelsea Flower Show\n- Community garden\n- Companion planting\n- Compost\n- Composting\n- Conservation\n\nDesign\n\nEnglish garden\n- Environmental design\n\nFlowerbed\n- Fountains\n- French intensive gardening\n- French landscape garden\n\nGarden\n- Garden designer\n- Gardener\n- Gardening\n- Garden buildings\n- List of gardens in fiction\n- Garden tool\n- Garden Gnome Liberation Front\n- Garden à la française\n- Gardens of the French Renaissance\n- Gardens of Versailles\n- \n- Giardino all'italiana \n- Grandi Giardini Italiani\n- Growbag\n- Guerrilla gardening\n\nHistory of gardening\n- History of gardens\n- History of landscape architecture\n- Hedge\n- Herbaceous border\n- Home economics\n- Horticulture\n\nInvasive species\n- Italian Renaissance garden\n\nJapanese garden\n- Japanese rock garden\n\n- \n- \n- List of notable historical gardens\n- Land Arts of the American West\n- Landscape architecture\n- Landscape design\n- Landscape detailing\n- Landscape garden\n- Landscape manager\n- Landscape products\n- Lawn\n- Lawnmower\n- List of botanical gardens in Italy\n- List of botanical gardens in the United States\n- List of Chinese gardens\n- List of garden and horticulture books\n- List of garden features\n- List of garden plants\n- List of gardens in Italy\n- List of invasive species in North America\n- List of organic gardening and farming topics\n- List of professional gardeners\n- Local food\n\nNative plant gardening\n- Natural landscaping\n- Nature and Culture\n- Never Ending Gardens\n- No-dig gardening\n\nOrganic gardening\n- Arboreta\n\nPatio garden\n- Pergola\n- Parterre\n- Permaculture\n- Plant community\n- Planting design\n- Flower pot\n- Pruning\n\nRain gardens\n- Raised bed gardening\n- Remarkable Gardens of France\n- Rock garden\n- Roof garden\n- Roman garden\n\nSculpture garden\n- Sheet mulching\n- Shrub\n- Spanish garden\n- Spanish gardens\n- Square foot gardening\n- Statuary\n- Sustainable art\n- Sustainable design\n- Sustainability\n\nterrace\n- Topiary\n- Tree\n- Tropical garden\n\nVegetable farming\n\nWater garden\n- water feature\n- Wildlife corridor\n- Wildlife garden\n\nXeriscaping\n\nZen garden\n\n"}
{"id": "20611562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20611562", "title": "Indian subcontinent", "text": "Indian subcontinent\n\nThe Indian subcontinent is a southern region and peninsula of Asia, mostly situated on the Indian Plate and projecting southwards into the Indian Ocean from the Himalayas. Geologically, the Indian subcontinent is related to the land mass that rifted from Gondwana and merged with the Eurasian plate nearly 55 million years ago. Geographically, it is the peninsular region in south-central Asia delineated by the Himalayas in the north, the Hindu Kush in the west, and the Arakanese in the east. Politically, the Indian subcontinent includes Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.\n\nSometimes, the geographical term 'Indian subcontinent' is used interchangeably with 'South Asia', although that last term is used typically as a political term and is also used to include Afghanistan. Which countries should be included in either of these remains the subject of debate.\n\nAccording to \"Oxford English Dictionary\", the term \"subcontinent\" signifies a \"subdivision of a continent which has a distinct geographical, political, or cultural identity\" and also a \"large land mass somewhat smaller than a continent\". It is first attested in 1845 to refer to the North and South Americas, before they were regarded as separate continents. Its use to refer to the Indian subcontinent is seen from the early twentieth century. It was especially convenient for referring to the region comprising both British India and the princely states under British Paramountcy.\n\nThe term Indian subcontinent also has a geological significance. Similar to various continents, it was a part of the supercontinent of Gondwana. A series of tectonic splits caused formation of various basins, each drifting in various directions. The geological region called \"Greater India\" once included Madagascar, Seychelles, Antarctica and Austrolasia along with the Indian subcontinent basin. As a geological term, Indian subcontinent has meant that region formed from the collision of the Indian basin with Eurasia nearly 55 million years ago, towards the end of Paleocene.\n\nThe Indian subcontinent has been a term particularly common in the British Empire.\n\nThe geographical region has historically simply been known as \"India\" (in antiquity referring to the Indus Valley region, not the entire subcontinent). Other related terms are Greater India and South Asia. \nAnd the terms \"Indian subcontinent\" and \"South Asia\" are sometimes used interchangeably. There is no globally accepted definition on which countries are a part of South Asia or the Indian subcontinent.\nThe less common term \"South Asian subcontinent\" has seen occasional use since the 1970s.\n\nGeologically, the Indian subcontinent was first a part of so-called \"Greater India\", a region of Gondwana that drifted away from East Africa about 160 million years ago, around the Middle Jurassic period. The region experienced high volcanic activity and plate subdivisions, creating Madagascar, Seychelles, Antarctica, Austrolasia and the Indian subcontinent basin. The Indian subcontinent drifted northeastwards, colliding with the Eurasian plate nearly 55 million years ago, towards the end of Paleocene. This geological region largely includes Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. The zone where the Eurasian and Indian subcontinent plates meet remains one of the geologically active areas, prone to major earthquakes.\n\nThe English term \"subcontinent\" mainly continues to refer to the Indian subcontinent. Physiographically, it is a peninsular region in south-central Asia delineated by the Himalayas in the north, the Hindu Kush in the west, and the Arakanese in the east. It extends southward into the Indian Ocean with the Arabian Sea to the southwest and the Bay of Bengal to the southeast. Most of this region rests on the Indian Plate and is isolated from the rest of Asia by large mountain barriers.\n\nUsing the more expansive definition – counting India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan and Maldives as the constituent countries – the Indian subcontinent covers about 4.4 million km (1.7 million sq mi), which is 10% of the Asian continent or 3.3% of the world's land surface area. Overall, it accounts for about 45% of Asia's population (or over 25% of the world's population) and is home to a vast array of peoples.\n\nThe Indian subcontinent is a natural physical landmass in South Asia, geologically the dry-land portion of the Indian Plate, which has been relatively isolated from the rest of Eurasia. \nGiven the difficulty of passage through the Himalayas, the sociocultural, religious and political interaction of the Indian subcontinent has largely been through the valleys of Afghanistan in its northwest, the valleys of Manipur in its east, and by maritime routes. More difficult but historically important interaction has also occurred through passages pioneered by the Tibetans. These routes and interactions have led to the spread of Buddhism out of the Indian subcontinent into other parts of Asia. And the Islamic expansion arrived into the Indian subcontinent in two ways, through Afghanistan on land and to Indian coast through the maritime routes on the Arabian Sea.\n\nWhether called the Indian subcontinent or South Asia, the definition of the geographical extent of this region varies. Geopolitically, it had formed the whole territory of Greater India. \nIn terms of modern geopolitical boundaries, the Indian subcontinent comprises the Republic of India,\nPakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, besides, by convention, the island nation of Sri Lanka and other islands of the Indian Ocean, such as the Maldives.\nThe term \"Indian continent\" is first introduced in the early 20th century, when most of the territory was part of British India.\n\nThe Hindu Kush, centered on eastern Afghanistan, is the boundary connecting the Indian subcontinent with Central Asia to the northwest, and the Persian Plateau to the west. The socio-religious history of Afghanistan are related to the Turkish-influenced Central Asia and northwestern parts of the Indian subcontinent, now known as Pakistan. Others state Afghanistan being a part of Central Asia is not an accepted practice, and it is \"clearly not part of the Indian subcontinent\".\n\nThe precise definition of an \"Indian subcontinent\" vs. \"South Asia\" in geopolitical context is somewhat contested.\n\nThis list includes dependent territories within their sovereign states (including uninhabited territories), but does not include claims on Antarctica. EEZ+TIA is exclusive economic zone (EEZ) plus total internal area (TIA) which includes land and internal waters.\n"}
{"id": "27659765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27659765", "title": "International SeaKeepers Society", "text": "International SeaKeepers Society\n\nThe International SeaKeepers Society was founded in 1998 by a small group of yacht owners who were alarmed by the deterioration of our natural environment. The organization’s initial focus was on the development and use of instrumentation on yachts to monitor marine conditions throughout the world’s oceans. Today, The International SeaKeepers Society continues to work with yachts as a vital part of its programming. The International SeaKeepers Society is a 501 (c) 3 organization of opinion leaders, scientists, businessmen and environmental advocates who have the passion and capabilities to impact ocean research, conservation and policy decisions. Working with governments, educational institutions, private foundations and non-profit organizations provides SeaKeepers and its members the opportunity to fulfill its mission. SeaKeepers long-established relationship with the yachting community creates an optimal platform to support oceanographic research while simultaneously engaging and educating yacht owners and professionals and the general public.\n\nIn 2014, The International SeaKeepers Society received the Fabien Cousteau Blue Award, an award given out by the International Superyacht Society to honor stewardship of the marine environment.\n\nIn 2011, the International SeaKeepers Society was featured by \"Mega Yacht News\" as one of six ocean-oriented charities to support within the yachting community.\n\nThe International SeaKeepers Society promotes oceanographic research, conservation and education through direct involvement with the yachting community. SeaKeepers enables the yachting community to take full advantage of their unique potential to advance marine sciences and to raise awareness about global ocean issues.\n\nFounding members of the International SeaKeepers Society include Alexander Dreyfoos, Alfred H. Balm, Richard DeVos, Jan Moran and Bruce McCaw. These Founding Members wanted to raise awareness regarding critical ocean issues and encourage ocean preservation. Their mission was to construct a monitoring unit that would provide data to scientists about the conditions of the seas. The resulting unit was called the SeaKeeper 1000. The SeaKeeper 1000 was deployed on more than 90 platforms across the globe including yachts, cruise ships, buoys, and piers. While the SeaKeeper 1000 was active, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the U.S. National Weather Service utilized the SeaKeeper 1000 on many of their NOAA vessels to better monitor oceanographic changes. The International SeaKeepers Society discontinued the SeaKeeper 1000 in October 2013.\n\nThe \"SeaKeeper 1000\" unit was designed to record weather and near surface oceanographic data automatically. It then transmitted the data via NOAA satellites and through the Global Telecommunication System (GTS).\nThe SeaKeeper 1000 unit won the \"2002 Environment Award\" from The Tech Museum of Innovation.\n\nIn 2002, 61 society members and 4 cruise lines had installed SeaKeeper 1000, and 14 yacht manufacturers had agreed to include the technology on their boats/ships.\n\nIn response to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, the Society with the assistance of researchers at the University of South Florida and environmental sensor company YSI were able to attach and interface a hydrocarbon sensor to the SeaKeeper 1000 environmental monitor in June 2010. SeaKeepers continues to focus on oil spill prevention and works with organizations like CARTHE, Consortium for Advanced Research on the Transport of Hydrocarbon in the Environment, is a research team dedicated to predicting the fate of oil released into our environment to help inform and guide response teams, thereby protecting and minimizing damage to human health, the economy, and the environment with this research team dedicated to predicting the fate of oil released into the environment.\n\nThe DISCOVERY Yachts Program is SeaKeepers foremost initiative in accomplishing its mission and goals. The program is composed of scientific expeditions, instrument deployments and educational outreach events. SeaKeepers collaborates with numerous organizations, academic institutions and government agencies in order to accomplish its DISCOVERY Yacht missions. SeaKeepers staff work closely with yacht owners and crew to coordinate research and outreach activities that reflect the yacht owner’s ocean-related interests. Vessel owners who generously donate time on their yachts to the SeaKeepers DISCOVERY Yachts Program may qualify for tax benefits to the extent of the law.\n\nScientific expeditions provide yacht owners, guests and crew the opportunity to participate in ongoing research while engaging with influential, well-known marine scientists. The largest expense, and often limiting factor, in ocean research is access to an at-sea research platform. Using member yachts, SeaKeepers works with experts in the marine science and oceanography fields to promote and facilitate groundbreaking research. Each scientific expedition is unique, and is organized with both the science and yacht in mind. \n\nHydrophone Retrieval, May 2015 in Bimini, Bahamas: The International SeaKeepers Society SeaKeepers partnered with the University of Miami's RJ Dunlap team onboard D/Y Fugitive to retrieve and redeploy hydrophones used for continuous Tiger Shark research in the Bahamas.\n\nMorphology Research, April 2015 in Bimini, Bahamas:Onboard D/Y Reel Buzz, The International SeaKeepers Society and The Billfish Foundation have taken the first steps in a joint effort to develop new methods for determining billfish health in collaboration with Dr. Duncan Irschick, a functional and evolutionary morphologist from the University of Massachusetts Amherst.\n\nDrifter Design Experiment, April 2015 in Miami, FL:The International SeaKeepers Society conducted a three-day expedition testing drifter designs and calibration calibration research onboard D/Y Shredder, which was generously provided to us by Fleet Miami. During the expedition SeaKeepers worked with researchers from the Consortium for Advanced Research on the Transport of Hydrocarbon in the Environment (CARTHE), the University of Miami and Florida State University.\n\nTiger Shark Tagging, November 2014 in Tiger Beach, Bahamas:The International SeaKeepers Society teamed up with the UM Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, Marine Conservation Program, Florida Biodiversity Institute, and National Geographic to conduct another tiger shark tagging expedition. The shark tagging took place at Tiger Beach, Bahamas onboard DISCOVERY Yachts Fugitive, out of West Palm Beach, FL, and Qing, out of Fort Lauderdale, FL. Fugitive is a 125-foot Northcoast and Qing is a 150-foot Cheoy Lee.\n\nHarbor Porpoises, October 2014 in San Francisco, California: The Golden Gate Cetacean Research (GGCR) team, along with SeaKeepers staff and the owner of E Cruz, successfully studied the behavior and population of harbor porpoises in San Francisco Bay through photo identification. A preliminary calculation shows 88 porpoises were counted, over twice as many as GGCR has ever seen from a boat in San Francisco Bay, and half a dozen cetaceans were added to GGCR’s ID catalog.The results of the survey will allow GGCR to correlate porpoise distribution with oceanographic characteristics to designate critical habitat locations.\n\nTiger Shark Tagging, May 2014 in Tiger Beach, Bahamas: The International SeaKeepers Society and a team of researchers from the University of Miami tagged tiger sharks, took blood samples,and conducted ultra-sounds using a custom-made floating platform designed by Florida Biodiversity Institute and Dr. Neil Hammerschlag. The floating platform was attached to the stern of the 138foot long Tri-Deck motor yacht, Penny Mae, which served as the base for the expedition site and research.\n\nGenome Sequencing, January 2014 in Bimini, Bahamas and Florida Keys, Florida: State of the art mobile biomedical laboratory created by Florida Biodiversity Institute onboard Copasetic revolutionizes fieldwork and facilitates real-time, remote genome scale sequencing in pioneering week-long research expedition. Over the course of one week, top scientists from the University of Florida (UF) successfully sequenced two genomes per day, proving that modern technology and instrumentation traditionally found in top biomedical centers can function accurately in the field.\n\nSeaKeepers works with a number of institutions, including the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), World Meteorological Organization (WMO) and Argo, to make ongoing oceanographic measurements. The collection of consistent and accurate data is extremely important for oil spill and marine debris accumulation analyses; weather and hurricane prediction models; quality control tests on satellites; and an overall better understanding of the marine environment. It is vital that the global instrument arrays are well distributed; private vessels achieve this along routes which are not typically travelled. Currently SeaKeepers employs the use of two types of devices: SeaKeepers Drifters and Argo Floats\n\nThe SeaKeepers Drifter is an environmental monitoring device that sits on the ocean surface and extends 15 meters deep into the water column. As the drifter floats along local and global currents, the instrument measures sea surface temperature, current velocity, latitude and longitude, and time. This data is transmitted directly to NOAA and WMO databases and made publicly available.\n\nArgo Floats are technologically advanced water monitoring devices that are programmed to move up and down through the water column while traveling with the ocean currents. These floats sink down to 2000 meters and then rise to the surface, recording salinity, temperature, current velocity, and pressure/depth profiles. Data is sent directly to the Argo database and is made publicly available at www.argo.ucsd.edu. Having this type of data is vital to studying heat transport, ocean-atmosphere relationships, and climate variability. The lifespan of these floats is 5 years or more.\n\nSeaKeepers outreach events have focused around marine wildlife, drifter deployments, plastic pollution, sustainability practices and more. SeaKeepers staff works closely with the yacht owner to determine what type of outreach and with what group will be most appropriate.\n\nYouth Making Ripples Outreach Program: In April, 2015 The International SeaKeepers Society hosted an education outreach program with Youth Making Ripples Film Festival award-winners, researchers, and film makers onboard DISCOVERY Yacht Defiance.\n\nBoys & Girls of Newport Outreach Program: On August 12, 2014 The International SeaKeepers Society traveled to Newport, Rhode Island to conduct an education outreach program with a group of children from the Boys & Girls Clubs of Newport County onboard DISCOVERY Yacht Defiance.\n\nLouise McDonald High School Outreach Program: In January 2014 DISCOVERY Yacht M/Y Defiance invited 20+ Bahamian school children onboard her yacht to participate in an exciting and eventful day of ocean exploration and marine science education. The day was topped off with the successful launch of a SeaKeepers Drifter off the coast of the Bahamas. Several students assisted in the actual deployment of the drifter into the water along with Claudia Potamkin, SeaKeepers President & CEO Richard Snow and Director of Programs and Policies Brittany Stockman.\n\nOn March 26, 2010 SeaKeepers formed an alliance with \"Yachts International\" Magazine to expand the Society's mission and to expand science-based understanding and analysis of global climate change.\n\nSeaKeepers works with yachting groups, including Fleet Miami, Global Oceans and EYOS Expeditions as well as research organizations including NOAA, Argo, CARTHE, University of Miami, University of Florida and Florida Biodiversity Institute.\n\nSeaKeepers also works with local, national and international magazines and news outlets including, South Florida Luxury Guide Magazine, Venü Magazine, The Triton Newspaper and MegaYachtNews.com.\n\nIn 2012, SeaKeepers partnered with the Volvo Ocean Race.\n\nSeaKeepers hosts variety of exclusive events throughout the year and in various locations around the world. Past event locales have included Monaco, Cannes, Barcelona, Florida, and Southern California. SeaKeepers network and socialize at the highest levels of international business, government and science.\n\nSeaKeepers Scientific Advisory Council (SAC) is composed of eminent scientists and ocean advocates who advise staff regarding critical ocean issues. Members of the include:\n\n\n\n\nThe SeaKeeper Award is an annual presentation during the \"Bal de la Mer\" charity event in Monaco. The honor is bestowed upon an individual who has demonstrated extraordinary commitment to marine conservation, according to the organization's website. The commendation originated in 1996, and the artwork symbolizes the award and was designed by Dale Evers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28940230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28940230", "title": "International rankings of Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "International rankings of Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nThese are the international rankings of Bosnia and Herzegovina\n"}
{"id": "20559838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20559838", "title": "Intertidal wetland", "text": "Intertidal wetland\n\nAn intertidal wetland is an area along a shoreline that is exposed to air at low tide and submerged at high tide. This type of wetland is defined by an intertidal zone and includes its own intertidal ecosystems.\n\nThe main types of intertidal wetlands are mudflats (e.g., mangrove swamps) and salt marshes. The mangrove swamps are encountered along tropical shores and are characterized by tree vegetation, while salt marshes are mostly found in temperate zones and are mostly grass ecosystems.\n\nIntertidal wetlands are commonly encountered in most estuaries. Intertidal wetland ecosystems are amongst the most productive plant communities and often constitute a large part of the estuary areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2400848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2400848", "title": "Jean Baptiste Bourguignon d'Anville", "text": "Jean Baptiste Bourguignon d'Anville\n\nJean Baptiste Bourguignon d'Anville (; born in Paris July 11, 1697January 28, 1782) was a geographer and cartographer who greatly improved the standards of map-making. His maps of ancient geography, characterized by careful, accurate work and based largely on original research, are especially valuable. He left unknown areas of continents blank and noted doubtful information as such; compared to the lavish maps of his predecessors, his maps looked empty.\n\nHis passion for geographical research displayed itself from early years: at age of twelve he was already amusing himself by drawing maps for Latin authors. Later, his friendship with the antiquarian, Abbé Longuerue, greatly aided his studies. \n\nHis first serious map, that of Ancient Greece, was published when he was fifteen. At the age of twenty-two, he was appointed one the king's geographers, and began to attract the attention of first authorities. D'Anville's studies embraced everything of geographical nature in the world's literature, as far as he could muster it: for this purpose, he not only searched ancient and modern historians, travelers and narrators of every description, but also poets, orators and philosophers. One of his cherished subjects was to reform geography by putting an end to the blind copying of older maps, by testing the commonly accepted positions of places through a rigorous examination of all the descriptive authority, and by excluding from cartography every name inadequately supported. Vast spaces, which had before been bordered with countries and cities, were thus suddenly reduced mostly to a blank.\n\nD'Anville was at first employed in the humbler task of illustrating by maps the works of different travellers, such as Marchais, Charlevoix, Labat and du Halde. For the history of China by the last-named writer he was employed to make an atlas, which was published separately at the Hague in 1737. Information for the maps of China came from land surveys made by the Chinese empire in 1708. His China maps have been called the \"standard Western source for the geography of China and adjacent regions,\" throughout the 19th century.\n\nIn 1735 and 1736 brought out two treatises on the figure of the earth; but these attempts to solve geometrical problems by literary material were, to a great extent, refuted by Maupertuis' measurements of a degree within the polar circle. D'Anville's historical method was more successful in his 1743 map of Italy, which first indicated numerous errors in the mapping of that country and was accompanied by a valuable mémoir (a novelty in such work), showing in full the sources of the design. A trigonometrical survey which Benedict XIV soon after had made in the papal states strikingly confirmed the French geographer's results. In his later years d'Anville did yeoman service for ancient and medieval geography, accomplishing something like a revolution in the former; mapping afresh all the chief countries of the pre-Christian civilizations (especially Egypt), and by his \"Mémoire et abrégé de géographie ancienne et générale\" and his \"États formés en Europe après la chute de l'empire romain en occident\" (1771) rendering his labours still more generally useful. His last employment consisted in arranging his collection of maps, plans and geographical materials. It was the most extensive in Europe, and had been purchased by the king, who, however, left him the use of it during his life. This task performed, he sank into a total imbecility both of mind and body, which continued for two years, till his death in January 1782.\n\nIn 1754, at the age of fifty-seven, he became a member of the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres, whose transactions he enriched with many papers. In 1775 he received the only place in the Académie des Sciences which is allotted to geography; and in the same year he was appointed, without solicitation, first geographer to the king.\n\nThe crater Anville on the Moon is named after him, as was the community of Danville, Vermont.\n\nD'Anville's published memoirs and dissertations amounted to 78, and his maps to 211. A complete edition of his works was announced in 1806 by de Manne in 6 vols. quarto, but only two had appeared when the editor died in 1832. See Bon-Joseph Dacier, \"Éloge de d'Anville\" (Paris, 1802). Besides the separate works noticed above, d'Anville's maps executed for Rollin's \"Histoire ancienne\" and \"Histoire romaine\", and his \"Traité des mesures anciennes et modernes\" (1769), deserve special notice.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49804730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49804730", "title": "Kansat Union", "text": "Kansat Union\n\nKansat () is a union parishad under Shibganj Upazila, Chapai Nawabganj District in the Rajshahi Division of north-western Bangladesh\n\nKansat village was turned into a union in 1928. Now Kansat is developed in education, culture, sports etc.\n\nAccording to the 2011 Bangladesh census, Kansat Union had a population of 34194. Kansat has an average literacy rate of 61.5%.\n\nKansat Union is divided in 16 wards and 20 villages.\n\nThe villages are:\nChairman: Md. Benaul Islam\n\nThere are two college, two high school, 2 madrasha, 12 govt primary school in Kansat Union.\n\nThe major transport systems inside the union is the bike, rickshaws, bi-cycle and CNG rickshaws. And major transport system to different places is Bus. There is no railway line in this union.\n"}
{"id": "2333207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2333207", "title": "List of Australian royal commissions", "text": "List of Australian royal commissions\n\nRoyal commissions (sometimes called \"commissions of inquiry\") have been held in Australia at a federal level since 1902. Royal commissions appointed by the Governor-General operate under the \"Royal Commissions Act 1902\" passed by the Parliament of Australia in 1902. The governments of the states and territories of Australia have also appointed royal commissions, although they are not included in this list unless they were appointed jointly by the Government of Australia and a state or territory government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32226622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32226622", "title": "List of Costa Rican flags", "text": "List of Costa Rican flags\n\nThis is a list of flags used in Costa Rica. For more information about the national flag, visit the article Flag of Costa Rica.\n\"See\": Provinces of Costa Rica\n\n"}
{"id": "49315351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49315351", "title": "List of LTE networks in Asia", "text": "List of LTE networks in Asia\n\nThis is a list of commercial Long-Term Evolution (LTE) networks in Asia, grouped by their frequency bands.\n\nSome operators use multiple bands and are therefore listed multiple times in respective sections.\n\n\nNote: This list of network deployments does not imply any widespread deployment or national coverage.\n\n"}
{"id": "21063551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21063551", "title": "List of ambassadors of the United States to Estonia", "text": "List of ambassadors of the United States to Estonia\n\nThis is a list of Ambassadors of the United States to Estonia.\n\nThe United States has maintained continuous official diplomatic relations with Estonia (as well as Latvia and Lithuania) since 1922, when one ambassador, resident in Riga, Latvia, was appointed to all three nations. Relations with the three nations were broken after the Soviet invasion of the republics in 1940 at the beginning of World War II. The United States never recognized the legitimacy of the Soviet occupation of the three Baltic nations, nor the legitimacy of the governments of those states under Soviet occupation. Hence, diplomatic relations were not resumed until 1991 after the collapse of the Soviet Union.\n\nThe U.S. Embassy in Estonia is located in Tallinn.\n\n\nNote: During Coleman’s tenure as nonresident Minister, the Legation in Tallinn was established on June 30, 1930 with Harry E. Carlson as \"Chargé d'Affaires ad interim\".\n\n\nNote: Soviet forces occupied Tallinn and Riga on June 17, 1940, which effectively ended the U.S. diplomatice presence in those nations. Ambassador Wiley departed Riga on July 25, 1940.\n\nNote: Walter Leonard was serving as \"Chargé d'Affaires ad interim\" when all U.S. diplomatic officials accredited to Estonia were withdrawn from Tallinn on September 4, 1940. The legation in Tallinn was officially closed, September 5, 1940.\n\nNote: The United States announced its readiness to reestablish relations with Estonia on September 2, 1991. Embassy Tallinn was established on October 2, 1991, with Robert C. Frasure as \"Chargé d'Affaires ad interim\". He was subsequently commissioned as ambassador. The embassy was established in the same building on Kentmanni Street that had been the U.S. legation before the World War II.\n\n\nNote: The following officers served as \"chargés d’affaires ad interim\": Keith Smith (July–December 1994), and Jon Gundersen (December 1994 – August 1995).\n\n\nNote: Karen B. Decker served as Chargé d'Affaires \"ad interim\".\n\n\nNote: Robert Gilchrist served as Chargé d'Affaires \"ad interim\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20586435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20586435", "title": "List of countries by easternmost point", "text": "List of countries by easternmost point\n\nThis is a list of countries by easternmost point on land (dependent territories included). A selection of dependent territories are listed in \"italics\" and are not ranked.\n\nThe order does not always reflect the proximity of the country's territory to the 180th meridian. In such a case there would be three both the very westernmost and the very easternmost countries or territories, Russia, Fiji, and Antarctica, as the 180th meridian passes through them on land. Instead for the number of countries, namely Russia, New Zealand, Fiji, the United States, and Kiribati, which have territory on both sides of the 180th meridian, the given easternmost point of the country is the easternmost point in the direction of travel. The United States and Kiribati have most of their territory east of the 180th meridian, in the Western Hemisphere, so they are considered to belong to the westernmost countries with their territory stretching as far to the west as beyond the 180th meridian into the Eastern Hemisphere. Conversely, Russia, New Zealand, and Fiji have most of their territory west of the 180th meridian, in the Eastern Hemisphere, so they are considered to belong to the easternmost countries with their territory stretching as far to the east as beyond the 180th meridian into the Western Hemisphere.\n"}
{"id": "52592032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52592032", "title": "List of countries with Jollibee outlets", "text": "List of countries with Jollibee outlets\n\nThis is a list of countries with Jollibee franchises. This list only includes the Jollibee fast food chain brand of Jollibee Foods Corporation (JFC) and excludes other brands owned by the company.\n\nAs of November 2016, Jollibee operates at 1,111 Jollibee stores, 954 of which are in the Philippines, its country of origin, and 157 are situated in foreign markets.\n\nAs reported in a 1990 article in the \"Washington Times\", Jollibee had two locations in Taiwan and one in the Brunei along with 58 locations in the Philippines.\n\nAccording to a 1995 article in the \"Wall Street Journal\", Jollibee had five locations in Brunei, two in Jakarta, Indonesia, and one in Dubai in the United Arab Emirates along with 160 locations in the Philippines.\n\nBy the end of 2011, Jollibee had 31 locations in Vietnam, 27 in the United States, 11 in Brunei, 7 in Saudi Arabia (all in Jeddah), and 1 each in Hong Kong and Qatar along with 747 locations in the Philippines.\n\nThe first ever Jollibee branch was in Cubao, Quezon City which opened in 1975 as a Magnolia Ice cream parlor. When Jollibee was incorporated in 1978, there were 7 branches in Metro Manila. The first franchised outlet of Jollibee opened in Santa Cruz, Manila in 1979.\n\nThe fast food chain's first outlet outside Luzon was in Cagayan de Oro in Mindanao. The store opened in 1991 at the Limketkai Commercial Complex.\n\nThe 100th branch in the Philippines opened in Davao City in 1991 while its 500th store opened in Basilan in 2004\n\nThere were 954 Jollibee branded restaurant locations in the Philippines officially recorded to be operating during November 2016. The 1,000th Jollibee store in the country at the Bonifacio Global City was opened in 2017. By the end of 2017, Jollibee has 1,062 stores in the Philppines\n\nThe first location in Kuwait was opened 1994 but Jollibee left the Kuwaiti market in 1999. Jollibee was reintroduced in the country in February 2012.\n\nThe first location in Oman was opened in Al Khuwayr in May 2017.\n\nSunrise Trading & Foodstuff Co is the franchisee operating all Jollibee branches in the state of Qatar. The first branch in Qatar was opened in June 2010,\n\nNessma United Ltd. is the franchise company operating all Jollibee branches in Saudi Arabia. The first branch opened by the franchise company was at the Jeddah International Market in 2008. By December 2016 there are 12 Jollibee branches in the kingdom with presence in the cities of Al Khobar Jeddah, Jubail, Riyadh, Taif and Yanbu.\n\nJollibee opened its first store in the United Arab Emirates in April 1995 in Dubai but later closed. In February 2014, it was announced that Jollibee Food Corporation signed a joint venture agreement with Golden Crown Foods LLC to form a subsidiary company called Golden Plate Pte. Ltd. which was created to operate and own Jollibee stores in the United Arab Emirates.In May 2015, Jollibee returned to the Emirati market by opening a store at the Dubai Mall in Dubai. The following year, a second location was opened in the Mall of the Emirates in February 2016, quickly followed by a third location in BurJuman Centre in April 2016, and a fourth store in Al Ghurair Center opened in August 2016.\n\nIn December 28, 2016, the first Jollibee outlet in Abu Dhabi opened at the Mushrif Mall.\nJollibee opened its first branch in Hong Kong in 1996 in the Central District when its was still under British administration. The number of outlets in the city which shortly became a Chinese territory grew to five but the fast food brand saw closure of outlets. In 2016, Jollibee started reopening outlets. By December 2017 there are 8 Jollibee outlets in Hong Kong.\nThe first Jollibee outlet in Macau opened on June 28, 2018 at Circle Square at Avenida de Almeida Ribeiro. \n\nThe first location in Singapore was opened in March 2013. The company that operates the franchise in this country is jointly owned by Beeworks Inc. and a wholly owned Jollibee subsidiary called Golden Plate Pte. Ltd. In April 2016, Jollibee had opened its third and fourth location on this island city-state.\n\nThe first Jollibee branch in Vietnam was opened in October 1996 at the in Ho Chi Minh City. By 2010, Jollibee had 10 locations in Vietnam, all located in Ho Chi Minh City except for a lone branch located in Bien Hoa City. By the end of 2011, the 30th branch was opened in the Long Binh District of Hanoi.\n\nJollibee had no less than 20 stores in Vietnam as of 2012, with branches in the cities of Ho Chi Minh City, Hanoi, Da Nang, Nha Trang, in the provinces of Vinh Phuc, Dong Nai and in the Mekong Delta Region. \n\nBy the beginning of 2018, Jollibee opened 100 stores in Vietnam, and it's 100th branch opened in Can Tho.\n\nIn 2013, Jollibee president and CEO Tony Tan Caktiong stated that Jollibee had plans to open a branch in Europe due to popular demand, but that such plans were not then prioritized. However, it was later reported in March 2015 that Jollibee planned to expand to Europe through an unspecified country in 2017-2018.\n\nCaktiong also announced in a forum on October 29, 2015 Jollibee's plan to open its first branches in Italy and the United Kingdom. The first European outlets were opened in Italy and the United Kingdom in 2018.\n\nThe first Jollibee outlet in Italy and in whole of Europe opened at the Piazza Diaz 7 in Milan, Italy on March 18, 2018. Jollibee Foods Corporation's entrance in the European market was a result of a joint venture with Singapore Blackbird Holdings. JFC announced the joint venture in April 2017. Plans to open a Jollibee branch in Italy already existed as early as August 2015 when Jollibee officials met with Milan's Chamber of Commerce to discuss possibilities on opening a branch in the northern Italian city.\n\nJollibee opened its first UK outlet in Earl's Court, London on 18 October 2018. Out of the planned 50 outlets to be opened in Europe by 2023, half of which are planned to be opened in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn the United States, Jollibee has locations in California, Hawaii, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Texas, Illinois, Washington, Virginia.\nThe first location in the United States was opened in Daly City, California in June 1998. After a two-year wait, a second Northern California location was opened in Union City in April 2000. Two month later, the first location in Southern California, the third in the United States, was opened in Carson in June 2000. In the following month, the second location in Southern California, the fourth in the United States, was opened in Long Beach in July 2000. The first San Diego County area restaurant, the fifth in the United States, was opened at National City in July 2001. The first location in Orange County was opened in Anaheim in September 2011. The first location in San Bernardino County was opened in Rancho Cucamonga in November 2013.\n\nNot all locations in California were successful and several had closed after operating briefly.\n\nThe first location in the state of Nevada, and the first U.S. location outside of California and the 12th in the United States, was opened in the Las Vegas in May 2007.\n\nMoving east, the company opened its first location in the state of New York in Queens in New York City in February 2009. This was the first location east of the Rockies. In October 2018, the company opened its second location in New York State on the island of Manhattan in NYC.\n\nThe first location in the state of Washington was opened in Tukwila in September 2010.\n\nThe first location in the state of Hawaii, and the 27th in the United States, was opened in Waipahu in December 2010. A second Hawaiian location was opened in the Ala Moana Center the following year in November 2011. Three years later, a third Hawaiian location was opened in Kalihi in April 2014.\n\nThe first location in the state of New Jersey, and the second location on the East Coast, was opened in Jersey City in June 2012. The following year, the first location in the state of Virginia, and the third location on the East Coast, was opened in Virginia Beach in April 2013.\nThe first location in the state of Texas, and the 26th in the United States, was opened in Houston in September 2013.\n\nThe first location in the state of Illinois, and the 34th in the United States, was opened in Skokie in July 2016.\n\nIn September 2016, Jollibee announced the construction of their first location in the state of Florida and expects that the location in Jacksonville to be opened toward the end of the year. At the time of the announcement, Jollibee had approximately 35 locations within the United States. After announcing, missing, and changing the expected opening date for this company-owned location several times, Jollibee announced in late December that they expect to open this location \"soon\". The Jollibee restaurant in Jacksonville eventually opened its doors on March 18, 2017, one day after Saint Patrick's Day.\n\nOn October 27, 2018, Jollibee opened its second New York branch in Manhattan.\n\nIn 2023, Jollibee expected to have 150 stores across the United States. \n\nIn 2015, Jollibee first indicated it would expand to Canada with plans to open the first Canadian branch in Toronto.\n\nThe first Canadian Jollibee location opened in December 2016 in Winnipeg, Manitoba. The city was chosen as the first Jollibee location by JFC due to it being the Canadian city with the highest density of Filipinos. For the opening ceremony, the fast food's eponymous mascot wore a tuque and scarf, which are not worn in the Philippines, over its usual costume. The location became the 35th in North America, with the other 34 locations in the United States. On November 27, 2017, Jollibee opened a second location in Winnipeg at the Northgate Mall.\n\nIn August 2017, Jollibee announced plans to open two new Canadian locations in the Toronto area, with one in Mississauga and the other in Scarborough, before the end of fall 2017. Two months later, Jollibee revised their plans and said that the earliest either store would open is early spring 2018. The Scarborough location opened on April 1, 2018 and the Mississauga location shortly afterward on July 20, 2018.\n\nIn June 2018, Jollibee announced that they plan to open 100 locations across Canada by 2023.\n\nJollibee had former branches in Taiwan, China and the United Arab Emirates. Jollibee launched its first branch in Taiwan in 1986, also its first branch outside the Philippines. Jollibee had at least two branches in Taiwan. Jollibee launched its first mainland China branch in Xiamen in 1998 but later closed in 2001. Jollibee focused on acquiring already popular restaurant chains in China. Jollibee launched its first branch in Dubai in 1995 but it was later closed. Jollibee previously had branches in Malaysia and Indonesia but were later closed down due to the 1997 Asian financial crisis. Jollibee entered the Indonesian market in 1991 and by 1995 it had two stores in Jakarta.\n\nJollibee had two branches on the island of Saipan in the Northern Mariana Islands, a U.S. territory. The first location was opened in the village of Garapan in late 1999. A second location was opened in the village of Chalan Kanoa in January 2000. The Chalan Kanoa branch was closed in 2004 and the main Garapan branch closed in February 2009 due to declining sales.\n\nOn the island of Guam, another U.S. territory, Jollibee had opened a location there in 1996 but later closed the branch sometime before 2009. A second location was reported to have opened in the Agana Shopping Center in February 2000. There are no records on when the second location had closed, but no Jollibee locations are known to exist on the island of Guam by 2009. \n\nJollibee also had a branch in Papua New Guinea which opened in 1997 in Port Moresby. The branch closed following the publication of a newspaper print advertisement that falsely implied that the local branch was trying to purchase dogs and cats as a source of food. Jollibee was unable to track down those responsible for the ad but had suspected several competitors.\n\nJollibee has previously targeted to open a branch in Romania in 1995. Plans to open a branch in Spain has been announced announced in October 2017.\n\nIn an October 2015 forum, Jollibee president and CEO Tony Tan Caktiong announced that Jollibee planned to open their first branches in Australia and Japan by 2017. In a signing ceremony on October 26, 2016, Caktiong said that Jollibee may open stores in Japan in 2018. within the same month JFC secured partnership with Ise Foods to open a Jollibee outlet in Japan. By October 2017, the projected dates of Jollibee's entrance into the two markets were pushed to 2020.\n\nJollibee has also considered reestablishing presence in Indonesia within the late 2016 to mid 2017 timeframe as well as to return in the Malaysia market in 2016. Jollibee also planned to open its first branch in Oman on the same year.\n\nIt was reported on July 2017, that Jollibee plans to reopen a branch in Guam. The Marianas Business Journal report that Jollibee may return by late 2018.\n"}
{"id": "11359042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11359042", "title": "List of mammals of the Marshall Islands", "text": "List of mammals of the Marshall Islands\n\nThis is a list of mammals of the Marshall Islands. There is one land mammal, the Polynesian rat. There are 27 marine mammals, one of which has been classified as vulnerable, the humpback whale. \n\nThe 27 marine animals consist mostly of whales, dolphins, and porpoises.\n\nWhales include Humpback whales, Ginkgo-toothed beaked whale, Blainville's beaked whale, blue whale, sei whale, Fin whale, and sperm whale.\n\nDolphins include Spinner dolphin, Fraser's dolphin, Long-beaked common dolphin, and Pygmy killer whale.\n\n"}
{"id": "53139915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53139915", "title": "Market House, Newtownards", "text": "Market House, Newtownards\n\nMarket House in Newtownards, County Down, Northern Ireland, is a historic building. It was built during 1767-1771 by Robert Stewart, 1st Marquess of Londonderry to be the center of the market town, in lieu of the Newtownards Priory.It has served as a prison and as a town hall. It is currently the Newtownards Arts Centre is also the home of the Ards Historical Society. \n\nIt was built of Scrabo stone.\n\nStanding at the north end of Conway Square in Newtownards' town centre, the Market House was built in 1770s to a design of Ferdinando Stratford, a bridge and river engineer from Bristol in England. The ground floor was originally an open space where a market could be held and was entered from Conway Square through a central archway which was fitted with gates that could be opened and closed at night. The upper floor had an assembly room over the west wing with a drawing room in the east wing, now known as the Londonderry Room. \n\nOriginally the market was held inside the market house, but the tradition which remains today and is now held outside in Conway Square each Saturday. \nThe Market House was also used as a military base during the 1798 Rebellion against British rule, housing a regiment of the York Fencibles under the command of Colonel Stapleton. Prison cells which were on either side of the archway and can be seen today from inside the ground floor of the building. Many years later the Market House was used as the local Town Hall, but today it is used as an Arts Centre. The drawing room on the upper floor (now the Londonderry Room) is still used for meetings and exhibitions.\n\n"}
{"id": "6960061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6960061", "title": "Mediterranean Ridge", "text": "Mediterranean Ridge\n\nThe Mediterranean Ridge is a wide ridge in the bed of the Mediterranean Sea, running along a rough quarter circle from Calabria, south of Crete, to the southwest corner of Turkey, and from there eastwards south of Cyprus and Turkey.\n\nIt is an accretionary wedge caused by the African Plate subducting under the Eurasian and Anatolian plates. As the African Plate moves slowly north-northeastward, it is plowing up the igneous and sedimentary rocks of the Mediterranean seafloor, lifting them from the seabed and creating Cyprus and other islands along the ridge.\n\nAlong the ridge, five deep basins full of anoxic brine have been found, where Messinian evaporite deposits of brine caught up in this ongoing orogeny have dissolved.\n\nIn the far future, it could grow into a long high mountain range if the continued northward movement of Africa obliterates the east part of the Mediterranean Sea.\n"}
{"id": "24217069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24217069", "title": "NUTS statistical regions of Iceland", "text": "NUTS statistical regions of Iceland\n\nAs a candidate country of the European Union, Iceland (IS) is included in the Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics (NUTS). The three NUTS levels are:\n\nBelow the NUTS levels, there are two LAU levels (LAU-1: regions; LAU-2: municipalities).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16279016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16279016", "title": "Outline of Madagascar", "text": "Outline of Madagascar\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Madagascar:\n\nMadagascar – sovereign island nation located in the Indian Ocean off the southeastern coast of Africa. The Island of Madagascar is the fourth-largest island in the world, and is home to 5% of the world's plant and animal species, of which more than 80% are endemic to Madagascar. They include the lemur infraorder of primates, the carnivorous fossa, three bird families and six baobab species.\n\n\nGeography of Madagascar\n\n\nLandforms of Madagascar\n\nList of ecoregions in Madagascar\n\nAdministrative divisions of Madagascar\n\nProvinces of Madagascar\n\nRegions of Madagascar\n\nDistricts of Madagascar\n\nMunicipalities of Madagascar\n\nDemographics of Madagascar\n\nPolitics of Madagascar\n\nGovernment of Madagascar\n\n\n\nCourt system of Madagascar\n\nForeign relations of Madagascar\n\nThe Republic of Madagascar is a member of:\n\nLaw of Madagascar\n\nMilitary of Madagascar\n\nLocal government in Madagascar\n\nHistory of Madagascar\n\nCulture of Madagascar\n\n\nSports in Madagascar\n\nEconomy of Madagascar\n\nEducation in Madagascar\n\nMadagascar\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1281139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1281139", "title": "Pico da Neblina", "text": "Pico da Neblina\n\nPico da Neblina (, \"Mist Peak\") is the highest peak in Brazil, above sea level, in the Serra da Neblina, part of the Serra do Imeri, a section of the Guiana Highlands on the Brazil–Venezuela border. As determined by a border survey expedition in 1962, its summit lies just \nwithin Brazilian territory, at a horizontal distance of only from the Venezuelan border at Pico 31 de Março.\n\nAs the peak's name suggests, it is shrouded in dense clouds most of the time. It was first ascended in 1965 by members of a Brazilian Army expedition.\n\nOfficially, Pico da Neblina is located in the municipality of Santa Isabel do Rio Negro, state of Amazonas. However, the mountain is not directly accessible from the urban seat of the municipality, which is about away, and federal authority over the national park, the Yanomami reservation and the border security area supersedes municipal authority in all practical respects. The nearest city is actually São Gabriel da Cachoeira, about in a straight line, from where virtually all climbing expeditions depart.\n\nThe mountain is contained in the Brazilian Pico da Neblina National Park; its northern slopes are also protected in Venezuela's Serranía de la Neblina National Park. The twin parks, together with the neighbouring Parima Tapirapecó National Park (Venezuela), form a protected area complex of about 80,000 km², possibly the largest national park system in tropical rainforests in the world. Pico da Neblina is also located within the territory of the Yanomami people's reservation.\n\nPico da Neblina is often mentioned as being on the exact border between Brazil and Venezuela. This is true for its massif as a whole, but the main summit is wholly in Brazil, 687 metres from the actual border. It is also sometimes mentioned as being the highest point in South America outside of the Andes, but this is not correct either: the title belongs to Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in Colombia, which is almost twice the height of Pico da Neblina and completely detached from the Andes. However, Pico da Neblina is indeed the highest point \"east\" of the Andes range, and therefore of a large portion of the continent. Neighbouring Pico 31 de Março, which \"is\" on the precise international border, is also the highest point in Venezuela outside of the Andes.\n\nFor 39 years, based on an uncontested measurement performed in 1965 by topographer José Ambrósio de Miranda Pombo, using a theodolite, the elevation of Pico da Neblina was thought to be , but a much more accurate measurement performed in 2004 with state-of-the-art GPS equipment by cartographer Marco Aurélio de Almeida Lima, a member of a Brazilian army expedition, put it at . This was then officially recognised by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), the federal government's official geographic survey and census agency, which jointly organised the expedition.\n\nIn February 2016, IBGE slightly revised again the official altitude of Pico da Neblina to , a 1.52-metre difference. There was no new expedition or field measurement at the time; the new value is simply a mathematical recalculation of the altitude, based on the previously obtained GPS field data, taking into account a newly available, more precise mapping of the Brazilian territory regarding the geoid (the imaginary surface based on the Earth's gravitational field that is the reference for altitudes). This explains why Pico da Neblina and Pico 31 de Março, which are next to each other, had both exactly the same altitude correction.\n\nThe Neblina Massif is composed of a tilted block of sandstone overlying Precambrian metamorphic rocks. The peak is an impressive sharp rock pyramid or tooth, towering high (when the peak is visible) over the nearby lowlands on the Brazilian side, as the Imeri range quickly rises from only about 100 metres above sea level to about 2,000 metres at the base of the peak in just a few kilometres; from there the peak rises sharply.\n\nThe Venezuelan side of the massif is hillier and the altitude gradient to the northern plains is less abrupt, although deep chasms and high walls still exist. Neighbouring Pico 31 de Março can be considered a secondary summit of Pico da Neblina; it has a smoother, rounder shape and is sometimes difficult to be clearly distinguished from Pico da Neblina on photographs, depending on angle and distance. Due to Pico da Neblina's equatorial latitude, while it can be cold on top, sub-freezing temperatures and frost appear to be rare (no permanent measurements are undertaken), and there is no snow. One non-authoritative source gives an average temperature of during the day and at night.\n\nThere is little documentation available today on the peak's discovery, and virtually none of it is authoritative, even though Brazilians only discovered the mountain fairly recently, in the mid-20th century. This late discovery can be understood if one remembers how extremely remote, inaccessible and uninhabited that part of the Amazon region is even today, and that it could hardly be expected that such a high mountain (by Brazilian standards) could be found standing next to the vast, low-lying Amazon Basin, even though it was known that there were mountains in that area. Moreover, as its own name states, Pico da Neblina is clouded and hidden from view most of the time.\n\nAll this led to it only being discovered in the 1950s. The exact date and circumstances are obscure and not documented, but a popular story often heard in Brazil says that it was supposedly seen and reported by an airline pilot who overflew it at a luckily cloudless moment. However, the massif was known well before that on the Venezuelan side, where it was called \"Cerro Jimé\". In 1954, eight years before the Pico da Neblina was successfully climbed, the area was visited from the north by an expedition led by botanist Bassett Maguire, who reached the northern summit plateau of the massif and observed the highest peak, then unnamed, estimating it to be between \"8,000-9,000 feet.\" The whole massif was named \"Cerro de la Neblina\", since Maguire and Reynolds considered at the time that the massif constituted a separate formation from the Imeri range to the southeast.\n\nSoon after the expedition, the highest peak, although unclimbed, was named \"Pico Phelps\" in honour of eminent ornithologist William H. Phelps, Jr. At that time, the peak was thought to lie entirely within Venezuelan territory. During the 1962 Brazilian expedition, it was determined that the highest summit lies entirely in Brazil. The Brazilian expedition renamed the summit peak to \"Pico da Neblina\", causing some confusion with the name \"Cerro de la Neblina\", which is used in Venezuela to refer to the whole massif. The subsidiary summit on the Venezuelan-Brazilian border was named \"Pico 31 de Março\" in Brazil, but it is now known as \"Pico Phelps\" in Venezuela.\n\nIn the 1950s, it was not yet clear whether Pico da Neblina was in Brazilian or Venezuelan territory, and its precise elevation was not yet known. Therefore, it was still widely held for many years after the peak's discovery that Brazil's highest mountain was Pico da Bandeira (2,891 m or 9,486 ft), between the southeastern states of Minas Gerais and Espírito Santo, in a much more populated, developed and easily accessible region. Only in 1965 it was found and became widely known that Pico da Neblina was the country's highest mountain. Pico da Bandeira remains the highest Brazilian mountain outside of the Amazon region, and the third highest overall, after Pico da Neblina and 31 de Março.\n\nDue to its location in a national park in a border area that is also part of Yanomami territory, access to the area is restricted and depends on a special permit by the Chico Mendes Institute for Biodiversity Conservation (ICMBio), the Brazilian government organisation responsible for national parks. The permit can be obtained at ICMBio's office in São Gabriel da Cachoeira, but all climbers must take an accredited local guide. A four-day trek each way should be expected, three of which consisting of a jungle trek in the rainforest that can be as hard and challenging as the climb itself. Rescue is close to impossible in the area.\n\nOnchocerciasis or \"river blindness,\" a parasitic disease that can cause permanent blindness and is transmitted by a black fly, is endemic in the area, albeit with a low incidence; malaria and yellow fever transmission are also possible. Therefore, climbers are advised not only to take the utmost precaution in avoiding insect bites, but also to discuss preventive and/or therapeutic strategies with qualified physicians who are familiar with tropical diseases.\n\nRobson Czaban, a Brazilian photographer who climbed Pico da Neblina in 1998, reports on his adventure account (in Portuguese) that there are always some gold panners on a small plateau just below the peak, at about 2,000 m (6,100 ft), called Garimpo do Tucano, which serves as the base camp for the last and steepest part of the climb. While the panners' presence there is technically illegal, they are widely tolerated by Brazilian authorities, and Czaban speculates that this would be because in such a remote area, they are believed to watch the border and nature better than the park rangers and the army would have the means to do. Czaban reports them to be very friendly and helpful.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3033136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3033136", "title": "Point of beginning", "text": "Point of beginning\n\nThe point of beginning is a surveyor's mark at the beginning location for the wide-scale surveying of land.\n\nAn example is the Beginning Point of the U.S. Public Land Survey that led to the opening of the Northwest Territory, and is the starting point of the surveys of almost all other lands to the west, reaching all the way to the Pacific Ocean. On September 30, 1785, Thomas Hutchins, first and only Geographer of the United States, began surveying the Seven Ranges at the point of beginning.\n\n"}
{"id": "10831678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10831678", "title": "Pratomagno", "text": "Pratomagno\n\nThe Pratomagno is a mountain range which has the Arno River on both sides: to the west is the upper Valdarno and to the east is the Casentino. It lies north-west of the city of Arezzo, in Tuscany, Italy.\n\nIts highest peak has an elevation of 1,592 m.\n"}
{"id": "3247098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3247098", "title": "Sleeper dike", "text": "Sleeper dike\n\nA sleeper dike (in Dutch \"slaperdijk\") is a dike which does not normally face water, but serves as a backup if a \"front-line\" dike in front of it breaks.\n\nThe sleeper dikes are usually located at places where there is a high risk of dike breakthrough or where there used to be such a risk. The dike is only potentially safeguarding the land from the sea/river, and is \"sleeping\", hence the name. Sometimes there is even a secondary sleeper dike, which can be called a \"dreamer dike\". \n\nMany of the sleeper dikes are historical, and no longer have a function in protection against the water, after the dike improvements of the Delta Plan . However, in case of a breakthrough they do divide up the land in sections, and therefore stop the waterflow in some parts, and slow down in others. Also many of these dikes are protected because of their cultural historical and ecological value. \n"}
{"id": "44716596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44716596", "title": "Tony Binns", "text": "Tony Binns\n\nJames Anthony (Tony) Binns (born 1948 in Greater Manchester) is the Ron Lister Professor of Geography at the University of Otago in New Zealand.\n\nTony Binns was born in Prestwich and grew up in Bury, Greater Manchester, UK. He attended Stand Grammar School, Whitefield. He graduated from Sheffield University (Geography, 1970; Dip.Ed., 1971) and taught geography in schools while attending the University of Birmingham (MA African Studies 1973; PhD African Studies and Geography, 1981). He taught geography at University of Sussex from 1975-2004, before moving to the University of Otago as Professor and latterly Head of Department.\n\nBinns has two children, and holds British and New Zealand citizenship.\n\nBinns' prime interest is African community development and the livelihoods and wellbeing of Africans. His early work was in Sierra Leone, working from Kayima in the north east of the country on links between diamond mining and the farming sector, the two main occupations of local residents. He has continued to follow these trends since 1974, and in 2014 he was elected an honorary chief of Kayima for his continued support to the community.\n\nSince then he has worked in \n\nHe has also worked in \n\n\n"}
{"id": "8914451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8914451", "title": "Vlatava (comics)", "text": "Vlatava (comics)\n\nVlatava is a fictional country in the DC Comics Universe. Vlatava is a small eastern European country that fell under the domination of the Soviet Union and was later devastated by The Spectre. The country had a long-standing history of cleansing genocides, blood feuds and internal wars lasting for decades.\n\nThe supervillain Count Vertigo was the last, surviving descendant of the royal family of Vlatava. His status as a political figure was frequently exploited in storylines, though he made little effort to reclaim his throne. The Count's insanity also allowed him to be manipulated easily, until after being sent to rehabilitation after being manipulated by Poison Ivy allowed his system to be cleaned and get a better grip on Vlatava's situation.\n\nWhen John Ostrander was writing The Spectre, all inhabitants of Vlatava, with the exception of Vertigo and the current president, were murdered by the titular spirit. The Spectre believed that Vlatava had degenerated so far that all its inhabitants were doomed to die in wars or starve. He was tried by the Courts of Heaven by this act - and acquitted, as his judgment had been accurate.This left the country in ruins, which the Spectre used to bind the Spear of Destiny and cast it into orbit. With this, the last of the Vlatavans of old are the former President himself and Count Vertigo.\n\n"}
{"id": "32874246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32874246", "title": "WIPO ST.3", "text": "WIPO ST.3\n\nWIPO ST.3 is the World Intellectual Property Organization standard for the two-letter codes of countries and other organizations, such as regional intellectual-property organizations. It generally follows ISO 3166-1 except for the non-country entries.\n\nRows in blue are not present in ISO 3166-2. Rows in yellow are different from ISO 3166-2. Codes AA, QM to QY, XA to XM, XO to XT, XW, XY, XZ and ZZ are available for individual or provisional use.\n"}
{"id": "30863093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30863093", "title": "Ximending", "text": "Ximending\n\nXimending (; Romaji: ; sometimes Ximenting) is a neighborhood and shopping district in the Wanhua District of Taipei, Taiwan. It was the first pedestrian zone in Taiwan.\n\nXimending has been called the \"Harajuku of Taipei\" and the \"Shibuya of Taipei\". Ximending is the source of Taiwan's fashion, subculture, and Japanese culture. Ximending has a host of clubs and pubs in the surrounding area. This area is in the northeastern part of Wanhua District in Taipei and it is also the most important consumer district in the Western District of Taipei. The well-known Ximending Pedestrian Area was the first pedestrian area built in Taipei and is the largest in Taiwan.\n\nBecause many bus lines gather on Zhonghua Road, Ximending is also an important area for bus transfers. Ximending is also accessible via exit 6 of the Taipei Metro Ximen Station (Bannan Line and Songshan-Xindian Line).\n\nThe Ximending Pedestrian Area is named after the administrative division , which existed during Japanese rule, referring to an area outside the west gate of the city. The area of Seimon-chō included modern-day Chengdu Road (成都路), Xining South Road (西寧南路), Kunming Street (昆明街), and Kangding Road (康定路). However, today the Ximending Pedestrian Area not only includes Seimon-chō but also and . The historical spelling of this area was Hsimenting, which is based on the Wade–Giles romanization of Standard Chinese. The use of the character is unusual in a Chinese context: it denotes a chō (a part of a ward) in the Japanese municipality system.\n\nThe name of Ximending was derived from its position outside the west gate of Taipei City. In the beginning of Japanese rule, the area was still wilderness, through which there was a road connecting the west gate to the town of Bangka (now called Wanhua). Later, the Japanese decided to follow the example of Asakusa in Tokyo to set up an entertainment and business area. The earliest entertainment facilities constructed included the Taihokuza in 1897, Eiza (now called New Wanguo Market) in 1902, and the Red House Theater in 1908.\n\nXimending became a well-known theater street in Taipei in the 1930s and grew even more prosperous after the defeat of Japan. In the 1950s, every theater was full to capacity and scalpers ran wild. Gradually, more theaters opened one after another; At one point, Wuchang St Section 1 had over ten theaters. However, in the 1990s, as Taipei City developed toward the Eastern District and away from Ximending, it began to lose business. In 1999, the city government and local stores established Ximending as a pedestrian area, prohibiting the entrance of vehicles on weekends and national holidays, a move that attracted young consumers and brought back business. Today, Ximending has over twenty theaters and six thousand vendors, and is a popular area for small concerts, album launches, and street performances. It is also home to the Red Envelope Clubs set up in the 1960s.\n\nBecause of its history, Ximending is home to several historical sites. Built during Japanese rule, Ximending Mazu Temple is an important historical temple. Originally opened as a market, the Red House Theater is another prominent building from the Japanese era.\n\nThe namesake West Gate and the walls of Taipei were torn down in 1905. Chunghwa Market used to extend to this area, but was demolished in 1992.\n\nXimending attracts an average of over 3 million shoppers per month. It has been called the \"Harajuku of Taipei\". The local bookstores sell Japanese magazines, books, CD albums, and clothing, making it a haven for the \"Harizu\", or Japanese culture adorers. Individual vendors gather in the streets as well as the large business buildings, such as Wannien Department Store and Shizilin Square during the day, and Wanguo Department Store and Eslite 116 later at night.\n\nDue to the density of young people, Ximending is comparable to Shilin Night Market and the Eastern District to be areas with the highest crime rates. In addition, Ximending is well known for student prostitution.\n\nXimending is accessible within walking distance North West from Ximen Station of the Taipei Metro.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8812748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8812748", "title": "Ye Chunji", "text": "Ye Chunji\n\nYe Chunji (; 1532–1595) was a Chinese county official and scholar during the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644) of China.\n\nHe was a native of Guangdong province and served as a county official of Huian County in Fujian province. Although topographic features were part of maps in China for centuries, Ye was the first to base county maps on on-site topographical surveying and observations. His career was sidelined for seventeen years after he became a victim of political vengeance. He came up with a model of county commerce with goods of greatest, great, and lesser importance—the latter being non-subsistence surplus goods that could be traded out of the county for commercial profit.\n\nHe issued an order to limit wedding expenses in the 1570s, stating \"The frugal man with only one bar of silver currency can have something left over, whereas the extravagant man with a thousand can still not have enough\". However, the elites of Huian county and others did not care much for fiscally conservative warnings such as this, and flaunted their wealth in silver.\n\nYe Chunji came up with a ranking model for consumptionary products on the local level that could be applied to his county and many others in the empire. At the top of this pyramid was the \"greatest\" (\"zui\") product, which was grain; this vital item of subsistence was not traded out of the county as a commercial item. Taxes were paid in grain throughout the Ming Dynasty, but as early as 1436 a portion of the grain tax was commuted to payments of silver instead; the 1581 Single Whip Reform of Zhang Juzheng finally assessed land taxes entirely in silver and not in grain. The middle level of importance in Ye's pyramid of county-level consumptionary goods were so-called \"great\" (\"zhong\") products, which were mulberry, cotton, hemp, and ramie, the essential raw materials for local textile production. The lowest level in Ye's pyramid of goods were the \"lesser\" (\"ci\") products, which were salt, cloth, vegetable oil, lumber, sugar, fruit, vegetables, fish, and livestock—all of which were traded out of the county by peddlers, itinerant retailers, or merchant wholesalers shipping large amounts of commercial goods. \n\nYe Chunji noted that most of these goods from his county made their way to the nearby prefectural capital at Quanzhou. He also noted that outsiders handled the trade in his county and many other Fujian county, which often led to profits being repatriated out of the local county. He did note, however, that linen produced from the county's production of hemp did generate profit that entered the county from outside. Historian Timothy Brook writes that Ye's description of his county gives the impression that most counties in the Ming Dynasty relied on self-sufficient agriculture and textile production while they were largely unaffected by and disengaged with regional commodity networks between large urban markets.\n\n"}
