{"id": "56753217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56753217", "title": "APLL", "text": "APLL\n\nAPLL is an acronym and may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "32702821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32702821", "title": "Abbott Pattison", "text": "Abbott Pattison\n\nAbbott Lawrence Pattison (May 15, 1916 – April 16, 1999) was an American sculptor and abstract artist.\n\nINTERNATIONALLY KNOWN as a sculptor, American artist Abbott Pattison worked primarily in cast bronze, welded brass and carved marble. Recognition of his talent first came in his hometown of Chicago through representation by the Fairweather-Hardin Gallery, but his reputation soon spread nationally, with eight one-man exhibits in New York City at The Downtown Gallery and Edith Halpern Gallery. Later he was also represented in Los Angeles by The Feingarten Gallery, and in London by The Alwin Gallery.\n\nAbbott Pattison was born May 15, 1916 to William and Bonnie Pattison, the second of seven children. His father was a well-known real estate developer of the city. He first attended art classes at The Art Institute of Chicago at the age of 10, while a student of Francis Parker School. Later he chose to enroll at Yale University because of their art program. While there, he was thoroughly trained in classical traditions of drawing, fresco painting and the Sienese style of egg tempera, eventually choosing sculpture as his primary art form.\n\nAfter he graduated with a Liberal Arts Degree in 1937, he enrolled in the Master’s program at Yale, and graduated with a Degree in Fine Arts in 1939. Among the fifty-two students who graduated from the art/architecture department that year, Pattison was awarded first prize, which was a traveling fellowship, and he chose to travel to Northern China and Japan for six months. While in China, he lived in a mountain village 150 miles from Peking with a Franciscan priest who was building a Catholic church in stone quarried from a nearby mountain, Pattison carved Twelve Stations of the Cross for the monastery with the assistance of several local stone masons. Next traveling in Japan, Abbott Pattison was arrested as a spy, but soon released. He warned his interrogators that he would return to Japan, but the next time he would be wearing a uniform.\n\nUpon his return to The United States in 1940, Pattison went directly into Officer’s Training School. From 1942 to 1945, he was given active command as Captain of a Pacific Command Sub Chaser, doing convoy duty between Hawaii and the Midway Islands. He was promoted to First Executive Officer on a Destroyer Escort, and was thereafter given full command as Captain of a second Destroyer Escort, running convoys across the Pacific from Florida to the African Coast and into the Mediterranean. He won a Military Merit medal for personal bravery, and his ship received battle stars for downing several German fighter planes. Pattison noted that the only regular paycheck he ever received was from that time when he served as an officer in the United States Navy. \n\nAt the end of World War II, Abbott Pattison returned to Chicago, and to his art, so that by 1946 he was well-known in art circles as the youthful recipient of both the Logan and Eisendrath awards, and as a recipient of one of the four prizes awarded nationally to sculptors by The Metropolitan Museum. He joined the faculty of The Art Institute of Chicago as an instructor of sculpture.\n\nIn 1953, Pattison was a visiting sculptor at The University of Georgia, and was asked to return the following year as a sculptor in residence with no teaching duties, having been honored for a second time with the Pauline Palmer Prize for sculpture. At the University, Pattison carved a large marble sculpture, titled Mother and Child and went on to create a 12-foot high abstract horse for the campus in welded plate steel, now called familiarly The Iron Horse. At the time, this sculpture represented the cutting-edge of avant-garde art in the United States. The sculpture was placed in front of the dormitory of the University’s football team, and angry students attacked the horse with spray paint, manure, fire and hammers, with the art department professors merely looking on. The Athens, Georgia police force was called in to quell the disturbance. This event became famous as the first official riot on an American college campus, and became the feature of a Public Broadcasting System movie special. The quarter-inch thick boiler plate steel sculpture withstood the attack and remains intact, but it was immediately removed from the campus and has never returned, sitting in a local farmer’s field since 1954.\n\nAbbott Pattison regarded all sculptors, presently living or throughout time, as his kin. His work was inspired by classical Classical Greek and Etruscan forms, elements of which he interpreted in creating his abstract bronzes, welded braised figures, and marble carvings.\n\nPrior to attending Yale, Pattison did more drawing and painting than sculpture. It was at Yale that he decided to work mostly in sculpture. However, he often exhibited his paintings, watercolors and terra cotta sculptures alongside his bronze sculptures at gallery shows.\n\nShortly before his death in 1999, Pattison advised his artist son Harry: “If an artist can manage to paint four or five great paintings in a lifetime that’s all that is necessary. It isn’t easy.” \n\nAbbott Pattison spent his summers at his home and studio on the coast of Maine, occasionally teaching at The Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture, where he also served on their Board of Governors. He spent his winters in Florence, Italy where the bronze foundry that cast his works is located. The rest of his time he worked in his Chicago studio, occasionally teaching at the Art Institute of Chicago. He continued working to the day of his death at age 82.\n\nCurrently more than thirty of Pattison’s works are on public display throughout Chicago, and his sculptures are in the collections of universities, corporations and museums worldwide, including the Whitney Museum in New York City, the Art Institute of Chicago, the Corcoran Museum in Washington, D.C., the San Francisco Museum and the Museum of the Israeli State in Jerusalem. Five of his pieces are owned by the United States State Department and are located in embassies overseas. One of Abbott Pattison’s sculptures is in Buckingham Palace, London. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47429", "title": "Atlas", "text": "Atlas\n\nAn atlas is a collection of maps; it is typically a bundle of maps of Earth or a region of Earth.\n\nAtlases have traditionally been bound into book form, but today many atlases are in multimedia formats. In addition to presenting geographic features and political boundaries, many atlases often feature geopolitical, social, religious and economic statistics. They also have information about the map and places in it.\n\nThe use of the word atlas in a geographical context dates from 1595 when the German-Flemish geographer Gerardus Mercator published \"Atlas Sive Cosmographicae Meditationes de Fabrica Mundi et Fabricati Figura.\" (Atlas or cosmographical meditations upon the creation of the universe, and the universe as created.) This title provides Mercator's definition of the word as a description of the creation and form of the whole universe, not simply as a collection of maps. The volume that was published posthumously one year after his death is a wide-ranging text but, as the editions evolved, it became simply a collection of maps and it is in that sense that the word was used from the middle of the seventeenth century. The neologism coined by Mercator was a mark of his respect for the Titan, Atlas, the \"King of Mauretania\", whom he considered to be the first great geographer.\n\nThe first work that contained systematically arranged woodcut maps of uniform size, published in a book, thus representing the first modern atlas is conventionally awarded to the Flemish cartographer Abraham Ortelius who in 1570 published the collection of maps \"Theatrum Orbis Terrarum\".\n\nA \"travel atlas\" is made for easy use during travel, and often has spiral bindings so it may be folded flat (for example Geographers' A-Z Map Company famous A–Z atlases). It has maps at a large zoom so the maps can be reviewed easily. A travel atlas may also be referred to as a \"road map\".\n\nA \"desk atlas\" is made similar to a reference book. It may be in hardback or paperback form.\n\nThere are atlases of the other planets (and their satellites) in the Solar System.\n\nAtlases of anatomy exist, mapping out organs of the human body or other organisms.\n\nSome cartographically or commercially important atlases include the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5743185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5743185", "title": "Battle of Alcatraz", "text": "Battle of Alcatraz\n\nThe Battle of Alcatraz, which lasted from May 2 to 4, 1946, was the result of an unsuccessful escape attempt at Alcatraz Federal Penitentiary. Two corrections officers—William A. Miller and Harold Stites—were killed along with three of the inmates. Eleven corrections officers and one uninvolved convict were also injured. Two of the surviving convicts were later executed for their roles.\n\nAlcatraz was a maximum high-security federal prison located on Alcatraz Island in the San Francisco bay. It operated from 1934 to 1963, and had a reputation for being impossible to escape from. As a result, it housed some of the most notorious and high-profile prisoners, in particular ones who had a history of escape attempts.\n\nThe escape attempt was planned by Bernard Coy. Three other convicts were involved in the main plan: Marvin Hubbard, Joseph Cretzer and Clarence Carnes. Sam Shockley and Miran Thompson joined the escapees after the attempt had begun. Coy was a depression-era criminal who, in 1937, was sentenced to 25 years for bank robbery. He was moved to Alcatraz in 1938 from Atlanta, and was soon given the job of cell-house orderly which gave him a relative amount of freedom around the main cellblock. Joe Cretzer was a west coast gangster and member of the Cretzer-Kyle Gang. In 1940 he was sentenced to 25 years for murder. After two escape attempts in the first months of his incarceration, one of which resulted in another murder charge, he was transferred to Alcatraz. In May 1941, Cretzer, Shockley and two other convicts made an escape attempt from one of the prison's workshops. Carnes was the youngest prisoner to reside at Alcatraz, having been convicted of murder in 1943 at the age of 16. He made a number of escape attempts and by 1946, when he was transferred to Alcatraz, had accumulated both a life sentence and 99 years for kidnapping.\n\nThrough his role as a cell-house orderly, Coy noticed flaws in the prison's security: firstly, that the gun-gallery at the west end of the cell-house was protected by bars, with no additional mesh or barriers; secondly, that the corrections officer in the gallery had set routines that allowed the convicts to predict when the main cellblock, and when the gallery, would be unobserved.\n\nOn May 2, 1946, while most convicts and corrections officers were in outside workshops, Coy was in the main cellhouse sweeping the floor around C Block when kitchen orderly Marvin Hubbard called on officer William Miller to let him in as he had just finished cleaning the kitchen. As Miller was frisking Hubbard for any stolen articles, Coy attacked him from behind, and the two men overpowered the officer. They then released Joseph Cretzer and Clarence Carnes from their cells.\n\nThe cellhouse had an elevated gun gallery that was regularly patrolled by an armed officer. The officer, Burt Burch, had a set routine, and the convicts had attacked Miller while Burch was away. Coy, as a cellhouse orderly, had over the years spotted a flaw in the bars protecting the gun gallery, which allowed them to be widened using a bar-spreading device consisting of a nut and bolt with client metal sleeve that moved when the nut was turned by a small wrench. Coy thus managed to spread the bars and squeeze through the widened gap (Coy starved himself in order to fit through the space between the widened bars, which was still relatively narrow) into the temporarily vacant gallery and to overpower and bind Halsey on his return. Coy kept the Springfield rifle in the gallery and lowered an M1911 pistol, keys, a number of clubs, and gas grenades to his accomplices below.\n\nContinuing along the gun gallery, Coy then entered D Block, which was separated from the main cellhouse by a concrete wall and was used for prisoners kept in isolation. There, he used the rifle to force officer Cecil Corwin to open the door to the main cellhouse and let the others in. They then released about a dozen convicts including Sam Shockley and Miran Thompson. Shockley and Thompson joined Coy, Carnes, Hubbard, and Cretzer in the main cellhouse. The other prisoners returned to their cells. Miller and Corwin were placed in a cell in C Block.\n\nThe escapees now needed to secure the key to the yard door of the prison from which they expected to make their way to the island's dock to seize the prison's launch. The boat docked daily between 14:00 and 14:30. The plan was to use the hostage officers as cover as the prisoners made their way to the dock, then San Francisco and freedom.\n\nMiller had held on to the yard door key (against regulations), so that he could let out kitchen staff without having to disturb the gallery officer at lunch. Although they eventually found the key by searching the captive officers and the cell in which the prisoners had placed them, the door would not open because the lock had jammed as the prisoners had tried several other keys while searching for the correct one. The escape attempt was thus inadvertently foiled from the outset as the prisoners were trapped in the cellhouse.\n\nMeanwhile, additional officers who entered the cellhouse as part of their routine were seized along with others sent to investigate when the former officer failed to report in. The prisoners were soon holding nine officers in two separate cells, but with nowhere to go, despair set in among the would-be escapees.\n\nHaving failed on their initial plan, the prisoners decided to shoot it out. At 14:30, Coy took the rifle and fired at the officers in some neighboring watchtowers, wounding one of them. Associate warden Ed Miller went to the cellhouse to investigate, armed with a gas billy club. He came across Coy, who shot at him. Miller retreated. By now, the alarm had been raised.\n\nTheir plan having failed, Shockley and Thompson urged Cretzer, who had one of the guns, to kill the hostages in case they testified against them. Cretzer opened fire on the officers, wounding five, three seriously, including Bill Miller, who later died of his wounds. Carnes, Shockley, and Thompson then returned to their cells, but Coy, Hubbard, and Cretzer decided they were not going to surrender. Meanwhile, one of the hostages discreetly wrote down the names of the convicts involved, circling the names of the ringleaders.\n\nAt about 18:00, a squad of armed officers entering the gun cage were shot at by the convicts. One officer, Harold Stites, was killed, and four other officers were wounded. Prison officials then cut the electricity and put on hold all further attempts to regain control of the cellhouse until darkness.\n\nWarden James A. Johnston now called upon the expertise of two platoons of Marines under the direction of Generals \"Vinegar\" Joe Stilwell and Frank Merrill to guard the general population of convicts and to take the cellhouse from the outside.\n\nAfter night fell, two squads of officers entered the prison to locate and rescue the captive officers. There was a long-standing rule at Alcatraz that no guns were allowed in the cellhouse, and the prison officials did not want more officers injured or killed. The convicts' position on the top of a cell block provided a nearly impregnable firing position as they were out of range of the officers in the gun cages.\n\nAt 20:00, unarmed officers entered the cellhouse, covered by armed officers in the two gun galleries overhead. They found the hostages; however, one officer was wounded by a gunshot fired from the roof of one of the cell blocks. They locked the open door to D Block. When the last officer reached safety, the officers opened a massive barrage from machine guns, mortars, and grenades on the prisoners within D Block, where the prison authorities erroneously thought one of the armed convicts was holed up. They eventually figured out that the rebellious prisoners were confined to the main cellhouse and ceased their attack until further tactics were worked out.\n\nThe Marines implemented a plan to drive the armed convicts into a corner with tactics they had perfected against entrenched Japanese resistance during the Pacific War. They drilled holes in the prison roof and dropped grenades into areas where they believed the convicts were to force them into a utility corridor where they could be cornered.\n\nOn May 3, at about 12:00, the convicts phoned Johnston to try to discuss a deal. Johnston would only accept their surrender. Later that day, a shot was fired at an officer as he checked out C Block's utility corridor. That night, a constant fusillade was fired at the cell block until about 21:00. The following morning, squads of armed officers periodically rushed into the cellhouse firing repeatedly into the narrow corridor. At 09:40 on May 4, they finally entered the corridor and found the bodies of Cretzer, Coy, and Hubbard.\n\nBefore the escape attempt, Hubbard had petitioned for a writ of habeas corpus on the grounds that his confession had been beaten out of him; he had produced hospital records to back up his claims. A federal hearing into the matter had been scheduled for the Monday after he died. The case was dismissed on a motion filed by prosecutor Joseph Karesh, who is quoted as saying that had it gone through, Hubbard would have had \"a fair chance\" of being released.\n\nMiran Thompson and Sam Shockley were executed in the gas chamber at San Quentin on December 3, 1948, for their role in the Battle of Alcatraz. Carnes was given an additional life sentence but was eventually released from prison in 1973. However, he breached his parole conditions, was sent back to prison and died there from complications from A.I.D.S. in 1988. Increased security measures ensured that there were no more escape attempts until 1956.\n\nSeveral versions of the events of the Battle of Alcatraz have been depicted on film:\n\n"}
{"id": "42470986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42470986", "title": "Civilian dictatorship", "text": "Civilian dictatorship\n\nA civilian dictatorship is a form of government different from military dictatorship and absolute monarchies where the ruling dictator does not derive their power from the military. Among civilian dictatorships, dominant-party dictatorships tend to outlast personalistic dictatorships.\n\n"}
{"id": "23551458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23551458", "title": "Cloud atlas", "text": "Cloud atlas\n\nA cloud atlas is a pictorial key (or an atlas) to the nomenclature of clouds. Early cloud atlases were an important element in the training of meteorologists and in weather forecasting, and the author of a 1923 atlas stated that \"increasing use of the air as a means of transportation will require and lead to a detailed knowledge of all the secrets of cloud building.\"\n\nThroughout the 19th century nomenclatures and classifications of cloud types were developed, followed late in the century by cloud atlases. The first nomenclature (\"naming\", also \"numbering\") of clouds in English, by Luke Howard, was published in 1802. It followed a similar effort in French by Jean-Baptiste Lamarck in 1801. Howard's nomenclature defined four fundamental types of clouds: cirrus or thread-cloud, cumulus or heap-cloud, stratus or flat cloud (level sheet), and nimbus or rain-cloud (see Classification of clouds). There followed a long period of development of the field of meteorology and the classification of clouds, leading up to 1896, the International Year of Clouds. The history of this period is the subject of a popular book, \"The Invention of Clouds\". During that time, the Englishmen Rev. Clement Ley and Hon. Ralph Abercromby, were influential. Both men died before the classification was settled, however. Ley wrote a book, \"Cloudland\", that is well known to meteorologists. Abercromby contributed a number of papers on the subject, stressing the most important (and then novel) fact that clouds are the same everywhere in the world. He also wrote in collaboration with Hugo Hildebrand Hildebrandsson a detailed classification of clouds. This was adopted in Hildebrandsson's 1890 \"Cloud Atlas\".\n\nIn 1891 the International Meteorological Conference at Munich recommended the classification of Abercromby and Hildebrandsson.\n\nIn 1896 another International Meteorological Conference was held, and in conjunction with it was published the first \"International Cloud Atlas\". It was a political and technical triumph, and an immediate de facto standard. The scientific photography of clouds required several technical advances, including faster films (shorter exposures), color, and sufficient contrast between cloud and sky. It was Albert Riggenbach who worked out how to increase the contrast by using a Nicol prism to filter polarized light. Others learned to achieve similar results using mirrors or lake surfaces, and selectively photographing in certain parts of the sky.\n\nMany subsequent editions of \"International Cloud Atlas\" were published, including editions in 1906 and 1911. In this interval several other cloud atlases appeared, including M. J. Vincent's \"Atlas des Nuages\" (Vincent's Cloud Atlas) in 1908 in the Annales of the Royal Observatory, Brussels, Volume 20. It was based on the 1906 \"International Cloud Atlas\", but with additions, and it classified the clouds into three group by height of the cloud base above ground: lower, middle, upper.\n\nThe 1890 \"Cloud Atlas\" is the first known cloud atlas and book of this title, by Hildebrandsson, Wladimir Köppen, and Georg von Neumayer. It was an expensive quarto book of chromolithographs reproducing 10 color oil paintings and 12 photographs for comparison, and was designed to explore the advantages and disadvantages of photography for the scientific illustration of cloud forms. Its printing was limited but as a proof of concept it was a great success, leading directly to the \"International Cloud Atlas\".\n\nThe first \"International Cloud Atlas\" was published in 1896. This was prepared by Hildebrandsson, Riggenbach, and Leon Teisserenc de Bort, members of the Clouds Commission of the International Meteorological Committee. It consists of color plates of clouds, mostly photographs but some paintings, and text in French, English, and German. The plates were selected from among 300 of the best color photographs of clouds provided by members of the commission. The atlas has remained in print since then, in multiple editions.\n\n"}
{"id": "62018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62018", "title": "Comparative advantage", "text": "Comparative advantage\n\nThe law or principle of comparative advantage holds that under free trade, an agent will produce more of and consume less of a good for which they have a comparative advantage. Comparative advantage is the economic reality describing the work gains from trade for individuals, firms, or nations, which arise from differences in their factor endowments or technological progress. In an economic model, agents have a comparative advantage over others in producing a particular good if they can produce that good at a lower relative opportunity cost or autarky price, i.e. at a lower relative marginal cost prior to trade. One does not compare the monetary costs of production or even the resource costs (labor needed per unit of output) of production. Instead, one must compare the opportunity costs of producing goods across countries.\n\nDavid Ricardo developed the classical theory of comparative advantage in 1817 to explain why countries engage in international trade even when one country's workers are more efficient at producing \"every\" single good than workers in other countries. He demonstrated that if two countries capable of producing two commodities engage in the free market, then each country will increase its overall consumption by exporting the good for which it has a comparative advantage while importing the other good, provided that there exist differences in labor productivity between both countries. Widely regarded as one of the most powerful yet counter-intuitive insights in economics, Ricardo's theory implies that comparative advantage rather than absolute advantage is responsible for much of international trade.\n\nAdam Smith first alluded to the concept of \"absolute advantage\" as the basis for international trade in \"The Wealth of Nations\":\nWriting several decades after Smith in 1808, Robert Torrens articulated a preliminary definition of comparative advantage as the loss from the closing of trade:\n\nIn 1817, David Ricardo published what has since become known as the theory of comparative advantage in his book \"On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation\".\n\nIn a famous example, Ricardo considers a world economy consisting of two countries, Portugal and England, which produce two goods of identical quality. In Portugal, the \"a priori\" more efficient country, it is possible to produce wine and cloth with less labor than it would take to produce the same quantities in England. However, the relative costs of producing those two goods differ between the countries.\n\nIn this illustration, England could commit 100 hours of labor to produce one unit of cloth, or produce units of wine. Meanwhile, in comparison, Portugal could commit 90 hours of labor to produce one unit of cloth, or produce units of wine. So, Portugal possesses an \"absolute advantage\" in producing cloth due to fewer labor hours, and England has a \"comparative advantage\" due to lower opportunity cost.\n\nIn the absence of trade, England requires 220 hours of work to both produce and consume one unit each of cloth and wine while Portugal requires 170 hours of work to produce and consume the same quantities. England is more efficient at producing cloth than wine, and Portugal is more efficient at producing wine than cloth. So, if each country specializes in the good for which it has a comparative advantage, then the global production of both goods increases, for England can spend 220 labor hours to produce 2.2 units of cloth while Portugal can spend 170 hours to produce 2.125 units of wine. Moreover, if both countries specialize in the above manner and England trades a unit of its cloth for to units of Portugal's wine, then both countries can consume at least a unit each of cloth and wine, with 0 to 0.2 units of cloth and 0 to 0.125 units of wine remaining in each respective country to be consumed or exported. Consequently, both England and Portugal can consume more wine and cloth under free trade than in autarky.\n\nThe Ricardian model is a general equilibrium mathematical model of international trade. Although the idea of Ricardian model was first presented in the \"Essay on Profits\" (a single-commodity version) and then in the \"Principles\" (a multi-commodity version) by David Ricardo, the first mathematical Ricardian model was published by William Whewell in 1833. The earliest test of Ricardian model was performed by G.D.A MacDougall, which was published in \"Economic Journal\" of 1951 and 1952.\n\nThe following is a typical modern interpretation of the classical Ricardian model. In the interest of simplicity, it uses notation and definitions, such as opportunity cost, unavailable to Ricardo.\n\nThe world economy consists of two countries, Home and Foreign, which produce wine and cloth. Labor, the only factor of production, is mobile domestically but not internationally; there may be migration between sectors but not between countries. We denote the labor force in Home by formula_1, the amount of labor required to produce one unit of wine in Home by formula_2, and the amount of labor required to produce one unit of cloth in Home by formula_3. The total amount of wine and cloth produced in Home are formula_4 and formula_5 respectively. We denote the same variables for Foreign by appending a prime. For instance, formula_6 is the amount of labor needed to produce a unit of wine in Foreign.\n\nWe don't know if Home is more productive than Foreign in making cloth. That is, if formula_7\n\nEquivalently, we may assume that Home has a comparative advantage in cloth in the sense that it has a lower opportunity cost for cloth in terms of wine than Foreign:\n\nInstead of considering the world demand (or supply) for cloth and wine, we are interested in the world \"relative demand\" (or \"relative supply\") for cloth and wine, which we define as the ratio of the world demand (or supply) for cloth to the world demand (or supply) for wine. In general equilibrium, the world relative price formula_12 will be determined uniquely by the intersection of world relative demand formula_13 and world relative supply formula_14 curves.\nWe assume that the relative demand curve reflects substitution effects and is decreasing with respect to relative price. The behavior of the relative supply curve, however, warrants closer study. Recalling our original assumption that Home has a comparative advantage in cloth, we consider five possibilities for the relative quantity supplied at a given price.\n\n\nIn autarky, Home faces a production constraint of the form\nfrom which it follows that Home's cloth consumption at the production possibilities frontier is\n\nWith free trade, Home produces cloth exclusively, an amount of which it exports in exchange for wine at the prevailing rate. Thus Home's overall consumption is now subject to the constraint\nwhile its cloth consumption at the \"consumption possibilities\" frontier is given by\n\nA symmetric argument holds for Foreign. Therefore, by trading and specializing in a good for which it has a comparative advantage, each country can expand its consumption possibilities. Consumers can choose from bundles of wine and cloth that they could not have produced themselves in closed economies.\n\nTerms of trade is the rate at which one good could be traded for another. If both countries specialize in the good for which they have a comparative advantage then trade, the terms of trade for a good (that benefit both entities) will fall between each entities opportunity costs. In the example above one unit of cloth would trade for between formula_24 units of wine and formula_25 units of wine.\n\nIn 1930 Gottfried Haberler detached the doctrine of comparative advantage from Ricardo’s labor theory of value and provided a modern opportunity-cost formulation. Haberler’s reformulation of comparative advantage revolutionized the theory of international trade and laid the conceptual groundwork of modern trade theories.\n\nHaberler’s innovation was to reformulate the theory of comparative advantage such that the value of good X is measured in terms of the forgone units of production of good Y rather than the labor units necessary to produce good X, as in the Ricardian formulation. Haberler implemented this opportunity-cost formulation of comparative advantage by introducing the concept of a production possibility curve into international trade theory.\n\nSince 1817, economists have attempted to generalize the Ricardian model and derive the principle of comparative advantage in broader settings, most notably in the neoclassical \"specific factors\" Ricardo-Viner and \"factor proportions\" Heckscher–Ohlin models. Subsequent developments in the new trade theory, motivated in part by the empirical shortcomings of the H–O model and its inability to explain intra-industry trade, have provided an explanation for aspects of trade that are not accounted for by comparative advantage. Nonetheless, economists like Alan Deardorff, Avinash Dixit, Gottfried Haberler, and Victor D. Norman have responded with weaker generalizations of the principle of comparative advantage, in which countries will only \"tend\" to export goods for which they have a comparative advantage.\n\nIn both the Ricardian and H–O models, the comparative advantage theory is formulated for a 2 countries/2 commodities case. It can be extended to a 2 countries/many commodities case, or a many countries/2 commodities case. Adding commodities in order to have a smooth continuum of goods is the major insight of the seminal paper by Dornbusch, Fisher, and Samuelson. In fact, inserting an increasing number of goods into the chain of comparative advantage makes the gaps between the ratios of the labor requirements negligible, in which case the three types of equilibria around any good in the original model collapse to the same outcome. It notably allows for transportation costs to be incorporated, although the framework remains restricted to two countries. But in the case with many countries (more than 3 countries) and many commodities (more than 3 commodities), the notion of comparative advantage requires a substantially more complex formulation.\n\nSkeptics of comparative advantage have underlined that its theoretical implications hardly hold when applied to individual commodities or pairs of commodities in a world of multiple commodities. Deardorff argues that the insights of comparative advantage remain valid if the theory is restated in terms of averages across all commodities. His models provide multiple insights on the correlations between vectors of trade and vectors with relative-autarky-price measures of comparative advantage. What has become to be known as the \"Deardorff's general law of comparative advantage\" is a model incorporating multiple goods, and which takes into account tariffs, transportation costs, and other obstacles to trade.\n\nRecently, Y. Shiozawa succeeded in constructing a theory of international value in the tradition of Ricardo's cost-of-production theory of value. This was based on a wide range of assumptions: Many countries; Many commodities; Several production techniques for a product in a country; Input trade (intermediate goods are freely traded); Durable capital goods with constant efficiency during a predetermined lifetime; No transportation cost (extendable to positive cost cases).\n\nIn a famous comment McKenzie pointed that \"A moment's consideration will convince one that Lancashire would be unlikely to produce cotton cloth if the cotton had to be grown in England.\" However, McKenzie and later researchers could not produce a general theory which includes traded input goods because of the mathematical difficulty. As John Chipman points it, McKenzie found that \"introduction of trade in intermediate product necessitates a fundamental alteration in classical analysis.\" Durable capital goods such as machines and installations are inputs to the productions in the same title as part and ingredients.\n\nIn view of the new theory, no physical criterion exists. The competitive patterns are determined by the traders trials to find cheapest products in a world. The search of cheapest product is achieved by world optimal procurement. Thus the new theory explains how the global supply chains are formed.\n\nComparative advantage is a theory about the benefits that specialization and trade would bring, rather than a strict prediction about actual behavior. (In practice, governments restrict international trade for a variety of reasons; under Ulysses S. Grant, the US postponed opening up to free trade until its industries were up to strength, following the example set earlier by Britain.) Nonetheless there is a large amount of empirical work testing the predictions of comparative advantage. The empirical works usually involve testing predictions of a particular model. For example, the Ricardian model predicts that technological differences in countries result in differences in labor productivity. The differences in labor productivity in turn determine the comparative advantages across different countries. Testing the Ricardian model for instance involves looking at the relationship between relative labor productivity and international trade patterns. A country that is relatively efficient in producing shoes tends to export shoes.\n\nAssessing the validity of comparative advantage on a global scale with the examples of contemporary economies is analytically challenging because of the multiple factors driving globalization: indeed, investment, migration, and technological change play a role in addition to trade. Even if we could isolate the workings of open trade from other processes, establishing its causal impact also remains complicated: it would require a comparison with a counterfactual world without open trade. Considering the durability of different aspects of globalization, it is hard to assess the sole impact of open trade on a particular economy.\n\nDaniel Bernhofen and John Brown have attempted to address this issue, by using a natural experiment of a sudden transition to open trade in a market economy. They focus on the case of Japan.. The Japanese economy indeed developed over several centuries under autarky and a quasi-isolation from international trade but was, by the mid-19th century, a sophisticated market economy with a population of 30 million. Under Western military pressure, Japan opened its economy to foreign trade through a series of unequal treaties.\n\nIn 1859, the treaties limited tariffs to 5% and opened trade to Westerners. Considering that the transition from autarky, or self-sufficiency, to open trade was brutal, few changes to the fundamentals of the economy occurred in the first 20 years of trade. The general law of comparative advantage theorizes that an economy should, on average, export goods with low self-sufficiency prices and import goods with high self-sufficiency prices. Bernhofen and Brown found that by 1869, the price of Japan's main export, silk and derivatives, saw a 100% increase in real terms, while the prices of numerous imported goods declined of 30-75%. In the next decade, the ratio of imports to gross domestic product reached 4%.\n\nAnother important way of demonstrating the validity of comparative advantage has consisted in 'structural estimation' approaches. These approaches have built on the Ricardian formulation of two goods for two countries and subsequent models with many goods or many countries. The aim has been to reach a formulation accounting for both multiple goods and multiple countries, in order to reflect real-world conditions more accurately. Jonathan Eaton and Samuel Kortum underlined that a convincing model needed to incorporate the idea of a 'continuum of goods' developed by Dornbusch et al. for both goods and countries. They were able to do so by allowing for an arbitrary (integer) number i of countries, and dealing exclusively with unit labor requirements for each good (one for each point on the unit interval) in each country (of which there are i).\n\nTwo of the first tests of comparative advantage were by MacDougall (1951, 1952). A prediction of a two-country Ricardian comparative advantage model is that countries will export goods where output per worker (i.e. productivity) is higher. That is, we expect a positive relationship between output per worker and number of exports. MacDougall tested this relationship with data from the US and UK, and did indeed find a positive relationship. The statistical test of this positive relationship was replicated with new data by Stern (1962) and Balassa (1963).\n\nDosi et al. (1988) conduct a book-length empirical examination that suggests that international trade in manufactured goods is largely driven by differences in national technological competencies.\n\nOne critique of the textbook model of comparative advantage is that there are only two goods. The results of the model are robust to this assumption. Dornbusch et al. (1977) generalized the theory to allow for such a large number of goods as to form a smooth continuum. Based in part on these generalizations of the model, Davis (1995) provides a more recent view of the Ricardian approach to explain trade between countries with similar resources.\n\nMore recently, Golub and Hsieh (2000) presents modern statistical analysis of the relationship between relative productivity and trade patterns, which finds reasonably strong correlations, and Nunn (2007) finds that countries that have greater enforcement of contracts specialize in goods that require relationship-specific investments.\n\nTaking a broader perspective, there has been work about the benefits of international trade. Zimring & Etkes (2014) finds that the Blockade of the Gaza Strip, which substantially restricted the availability of imports to Gaza, saw labor productivity fall by 20% in three years. Markusen et al. (1994) reports the effects of moving away from autarky to free trade during the Meiji Restoration, with the result that national income increased by up to 65% in 15 years.\nThe theory of comparative advantage, and the corollary that nations should specialize, is criticized on pragmatic grounds within the import substitution industrialization theory of development economics, on empirical grounds by the Singer–Prebisch thesis which states that terms of trade between primary producers and manufactured goods deteriorate over time, and on theoretical grounds of infant industry and Keynesian economics. In older economic terms, comparative advantage has been opposed by mercantilism and economic nationalism. These argue instead that while a country may initially be comparatively disadvantaged in a given industry (such as Japanese cars in the 1950s), countries should shelter and invest in industries until they become globally competitive. Further, they argue that comparative advantage, as stated, is a static theory – it does not account for the possibility of advantage changing through investment or economic development, and thus does not provide guidance for long-term economic development.\n\nMuch has been written since Ricardo as commerce has evolved and cross-border trade has become more complicated. Today trade policy tends to focus more on \"competitive advantage\" as opposed to \"comparative advantage\". One of the most in-depth research undertakings on \"competitive advantage\" was conducted in the 1980s as part of the Reagan administration's Project Socrates to establish the foundation for a technology-based competitive strategy development system that could be used for guiding international trade policy.\n\nSeveral arguments have been advanced against using comparative advantage as a justification for advocating free trade, and they have gained an audience among economists. For example, James Brander and Barbara Spencer demonstrated how, in a strategic setting where a few firms compete for the world market, export subsidies and import restrictions can keep foreign firms from competing with national firms, increasing welfare in the country implementing these so-called strategic trade policies.\n\nHowever, the overwhelming consensus of the economics profession remains that while these arguments are theoretically valid under certain assumptions, these assumptions do not usually hold and should not be used to guide trade policy. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the Harvard Economics Department, has said: ″Few propositions command as much consensus among professional economists as that open world trade increases economic growth and raises living standards.″\n\nEconomist James K. Galbraith disputes these claims of the benefit of comparative advantage. He states that \"free trade has attained the status of a god\" and that \". . . none of the world's most successful trading regions, including Japan, Korea, Taiwan, and now mainland China, reached their current status by adopting neoliberal trading rules.\" He argues that \". . . comparative advantage is based upon the concept of constant returns: the idea that you can double or triple the output of any good simply by doubling or tripling the inputs. But this is not generally the case. For manufactured products, increasing returns, learning, and technical change are the rule, not the exception; the cost of production falls with experience. With increasing returns, the lowest cost will be incurred by the country that starts earliest and moves fastest on any particular line. Potential competitors have to protect their own industries if they wish them to survive long enough to achieve competitive scale.\"\n\nGalbraith then explains that nations trapped into specializing in agriculture are condemned to perpetual poverty. Agriculture is dependent on a finite natural resource called land. People can't make more of it. As the population increases the per capita land resources decreases. Also the average farm size has also been increasing. If a nation is not allowed to expand into manufacturing and only specialize in agriculture, that nation is condemned to an ever expanding poverty.\n\nThe strength of free trade is its weakness. A diverse economy is a healthy economy. A specialized economy is a weak economy.\n\nAccording to historian Cecil Woodham-Smith, Ireland in the 1800s is an example of the dangers of specialization. When the union with Great Britain was formed in 1800, Irish textile industries protected by tariffs were exposed to world markets where England had a comparative advantage in technology, experience and scale of operation which devastated the Irish industry. Ireland was forced to specialize in the export of grain while the displaced Irish labor was forced into subsistence farming and relying on the potato for survival. When the potato blight occurred the resulting famine killed at least one million Irish in one of the worst famines in European history. As Woodham-Smith would later comment, \"the Irish peasant was told to replace the potato by eating his grain, but Trevelyan once again refused to take any steps to curb the export of food from Ireland. 'Do not encourage the idea of prohibiting exports,' he wrote, on September 3, (1846) 'perfect free trade is the right course'.\"\n\nThe classical and neoclassical formulations of comparative advantage theory differ in the tools they use but share the same basis and logic. Comparative advantage theory says that market forces lead all factors of production to their best use in the economy. It indicates that international free trade would be beneficial for all participating countries as well as for the world as a whole because they could increase their overall production and consume more by specializing according to their comparative advantages. Goods would become cheaper and available in larger quantities. Moreover, this specialization would not be the result of chance or political intent, but would be automatic. However, the theories of free trade and comparative advantage are based on assumptions that are neither theoretically nor empirically valid:\n\nThe international immobility of labour and capital is essential to the theory of comparative advantage. Without this, there would be no reason for international free trade to be regulated by comparative advantages. Classical and neoclassical economists all assume that labour and capital do not circulate between nations. At the international level, only the goods produced can move freely, with capital and labour trapped in countries. David Ricardo was aware that the international immobility of labour and capital is an indispensable hypothesis. He devoted half of his explanation of the theory to it in his book. He even explained that if labour and capital could move internationally, then comparative advantages could not determine international trade. Ricardo assumed that the reasons for the immobility of the capital would be:\nNeoclassical economists, for their part, argue that the scale of these movements of workers and capital is negligible. They developed the theory of price compensation by factor that makes these movements superfluous.\nIn practice, however, workers move in large numbers from one country to another. Today, labour migration is truly a global phenomenon. And, with the reduction in transport and communication costs, capital has become increasingly mobile and frequently moves from one country to another. Moreover, the neoclassical assumption that factors are trapped at the national level has no theoretical basis and the assumption of factor price equalisation cannot justify international immobility. Moreover, there is no evidence that factor prices are equal worldwide. Comparative advantages cannot therefore determine the structure of international trade.\n\nIf they are internationally mobile and the most productive use of factors is in another country, then free trade will lead them to migrate to that country. This will benefit the nation to which they emigrate, but not necessarily the others.\n\nAn externality is the term used when the price of a product does not reflect its cost or real economic value. The classic negative externality is environmental degradation, which reduces the value of natural resources without increasing the price of the product that has caused them harm. The classic positive externality is technological encroachment, where one company's invention of a product allows others to copy or build on it, generating wealth that the original company cannot capture. If prices are wrong due to positive or negative externalities, free trade will produce sub-optimal results.\n\nFor example, goods from a country with lax pollution standards will be too cheap. As a result, its trading partners will import too much. And the exporting country will export too much, concentrating its economy too much in industries that are not as profitable as they seem, ignoring the damage caused by pollution.\n\nOn the positive externalities, if an industry generates technological spinoffs for the rest of the economy, then free trade can let that industry be destroyed by foreign competition because the economy ignores its hidden value. Some industries generate new technologies, allow improvements in other industries and stimulate technological advances throughout the economy; losing these industries means losing all industries that would have resulted in the future.\n\nComparative advantage theory deals with the best use of resources and how to put the economy to its best use. But this implies that the resources used to manufacture one product can be used to produce another object. If they cannot, imports will not push the economy into industries better suited to its comparative advantage and will only destroy existing industries.\n\nFor example, when workers cannot move from one industry to another - usually because they do not have the right skills or do not live in the right place - changes in the economy's comparative advantage will not shift them to a more appropriate industry, but rather to unemployment or precarious and unproductive jobs.\n\nComparative advantage theory allows for a \"static\" and not a \"dynamic\" analysis of the economy. That is, it examines the facts at a single point in time and determines the best response to those facts at that point in time, given our productivity in various industries. But when it comes to long-term growth, it says nothing about how the facts can change tomorrow and how they can be changed in someone's favour. It does not indicate how best to transform factors of production into more productive factors in the future.\n\nAccording to theory, the only advantage of international trade is that goods become cheaper and available in larger quantities. Improving the static efficiency of existing resources would therefore be the only advantage of international trade. And the neoclassical formulation assumes that the factors of production are given only exogenously. Exogenous changes can come from population growth, industrial policies, the rate of capital accumulation (propensity for security) and technological inventions, among others. Dynamic developments endogenous to trade such as economic growth are not integrated into Ricardo's theory. And this is not affected by what is called \"dynamic comparative advantage\". In these models, comparative advantages develop and change over time, but this change is not the result of trade itself, but of a change in exogenous factors.\n\nHowever, the world, and in particular the industrialized countries, are characterized by dynamic gains endogenous to trade, such as technological growth that has led to an increase in the standard of living and wealth of the industrialized world. In addition, dynamic gains are more important than static gains. \n\nA crucial assumption in both the classical and neoclassical formulation of comparative advantage theory is that trade is balanced, which means that the value of imports is equal to the value of each country's exports. The volume of trade may change, but international trade will always be balanced at least after a certain adjustment period. The balance of trade is essential for theory because the resulting adjustment mechanism is responsible for transforming the comparative advantages of production costs into absolute price advantages. And this is necessary because it is the absolute price differences that determine the international flow of goods. Since consumers buy a good from the one who sells it cheapest, comparative advantages in terms of production costs must be transformed into absolute price advantages. In the case of floating exchange rates, it is the exchange rate adjustment mechanism that is responsible for this transformation of comparative advantages into absolute price advantages. In the case of fixed exchange rates, neoclassical theory suggests that trade is balanced by changes in wage rates.\n\nSo if trade were not balanced in itself and if there were no adjustment mechanism, there would be no reason to achieve a comparative advantage. However, trade imbalances are the norm and balanced trade is in practice only an exception. In addition, financial crises such as the Asian crisis of the 1990s show that balance of payments imbalances are rarely benign and do not self-regulate. There is no adjustment mechanism in practice. Comparative advantages do not turn into price differences and therefore cannot explain international trade flows. \n\nThus, theory can very easily recommend a trade policy that gives us the highest possible standard of living in the short term but none in the long term. This is what happens when a nation runs a trade deficit, which necessarily means that it goes into debt with foreigners or sells its existing assets to them. Thus, the nation applies a frenzy of consumption in the short term followed by a long-term decline.\n\nThe assumption that trade will always be balanced is a corollary of the fact that trade is understood as barter. The definition of international trade as barter trade is the basis for the assumption of balanced trade. Ricardo insists that international trade takes place as if it were purely a barter trade, a presumption that is maintained by subsequent classical and neoclassical economists. The quantity of money theory, which Ricardo uses, assumes that money is neutral and neglects the velocity of a currency. Money has only one function in international trade, namely as a means of exchange to facilitate trade.\n\nIn practice, however, the velocity of circulation is not constant and the quantity of money is not neutral for the real economy. A capitalist world is not characterized by a barter economy but by a market economy. The main difference in the context of international trade is that sales and purchases no longer necessarily have to coincide. The seller is not necessarily obliged to buy immediately. Thus, money is not only a means of exchange. It is above all a means of payment and is also used to store value, settle debts and transfer wealth. Thus, unlike the barter hypothesis of the comparative advantage theory, money is not a commodity like any other. Rather, it is of practical importance to specifically own money rather than any commodity. And money as a store of value in a world of uncertainty has a significant influence on the motives and decisions of wealth holders and producers.\n\nRicardo and later classical economists assume that labour tends towards full employment and that capital is always fully used in a liberalized economy, because no capital owner will leave its capital unused but will always seek to make a profit from it. That there is no limit to the use of capital is a consequence of Jean-Baptiste Say's law, which presumes that production is limited only by resources and is also adopted by neoclassical economists.\n\nFrom a theoretical point of view, comparative advantage theory must assume that labour or capital is used to its full potential and that resources limit production. There are two reasons for this: the realization of gains through international trade and the adjustment mechanism. In addition, this assumption is necessary for the concept of opportunity costs. If unemployment (or underutilized resources) exists, there are no opportunity costs, because the production of one good can be increased without reducing the production of another good. Since comparative advantages are determined by opportunity costs in the neoclassical formulation, these cannot be calculated and this formulation would lose its logical basis.\n\nIf a country's resources were not fully utilized, production and consumption could be increased at the national level without participating in international trade. The whole raison d'être of international trade would disappear, as would the possible gains. In this case, a State could even earn more by refraining from participating in international trade and stimulating domestic production, as this would allow it to employ more labour and capital and increase national income. Moreover, any adjustment mechanism underlying the theory no longer works if unemployment exists.\n\nIn practice, however, the world is characterised by unemployment. Unemployment and underemployment of capital and labour are not short-term phenomena, but are common and widespread. Unemployment and untapped resources are more the rule than the exception.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9530029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9530029", "title": "Comparison of audio synthesis environments", "text": "Comparison of audio synthesis environments\n\nSoftware audio synthesis environments typically consist of an audio programming language (which may be graphical) and a user environment to design/run the language in. Although many of these environments are comparable in their abilities to produce high-quality audio, their differences and specialties are what draw users to a particular platform. This article compares noteworthy audio synthesis environments, and enumerates basic issues associated with their use.\n\nAudio synthesis environments comprise a wide and varying range of software and hardware configurations. Even different versions of the same environment can differ dramatically. Because of this broad variability, certain aspects of different systems cannot be directly compared. Moreover, some levels of comparison are either very difficult to objectively quantify, or depend purely on personal preference.\n\nSome of the commonly considered subjective attributes for comparison include:\n\nThese attributes can vary strongly depending on the tasks used for evaluation.\n\nSome other common comparisons include:\n\nAudio software often has a slightly different \"sound\" when compared against others. This is because there are different ways to implement the basic building blocks (such as sinewaves, pink noise, or FFT) which result in slightly different aural characteristics. Although people can of course prefer one system's \"sound\" over another, perhaps the best output can be determined by using sophisticated audio analyzers in combination with the listener's ears. The idea of this would be to arrive at what most would agree is as \"pure\" a sound as possible.\n\nThe interface to an audio system often has a significant influence on the creative flow of the user, not because of what is \"possible\" (the stable/mature systems listed here are fully featured enough to be able to achieve an enormous range of sonic/compositional objectives), but because of \"what is made easy\" and \"what is made difficult\". This is again very difficult to boil down to a brief comparative statement. One issue may be which interface metaphors are used (e.g. boxes-and-wires, documents, flow graphs, hardware mixing desks).\n\nInterfaces between the language environment and other software or hardware (not \"user\" interfaces).\n\n"}
{"id": "34787811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34787811", "title": "Cradley Heath Workers' Institute", "text": "Cradley Heath Workers' Institute\n\nThe Cradley Heath Workers' Institute was built between 1911 and 1912 in Lomey Town, Cradley Heath, West Midlands, England. It was built as a social centre for the Black Country, intended to become a venue for educational meetings and lectures. It also housed Union offices, where members could come to seek guidance, and from which the Contributory Unemployment Fund would be distributed. In 2006 the building was threatened by a bypass and so was moved to the Black Country Living Museum.\n\nThe Institute's architect was local man A T Butler. With its projected gables, leaded windows, exposed brickwork and signage in green tiles, the building is a demonstration of Arts and Crafts style.\n\nConstruction of the Institute was funded using money left over from the strike fund of the 1910 women chainmakers' strike, led by Mary Macarthur.\n\nBetween 1915 and 1933 it largely functioned as a cinema. It was then used as a billiards hall until 1950, after which it became postal sorting office until 1995. It was moved to the Black Country Living Museum in 2006 after a bypass threatened the site. It now contains period offices, which are demonstrated by Museum staff, and an exhibition about Mary Macarthur. The original auditorium houses a café for the museum and the stage is used for special events.\n"}
{"id": "1528914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1528914", "title": "Cubitus", "text": "Cubitus\n\nCubitus is a Franco-Belgian comics series, and the basis for the Wowser cartoon series appearing in the United States. \"Cubitus\" was created by the Belgian cartoonist Dupa, and features Cubitus, a large anthropomorphic dog, who lives with his owner Semaphore. Cubitus is known as \"Dommel\" in Flanders and the Netherlands, \"Muppelo\" or \"Pom Pom\" in Finland, \"Teodoro\" in Italy and Доммель in Russia. His name derives from the old anatomical name of the ulna bone, supposedly derived from the Greek \"kybiton\" (elbow).\n\nThe series tells the story of Cubitus, a good-natured large, white dog endowed with speech. He lives in a house in the suburbs with his master, Sémaphore, a retired sailor, next door to Sénéchal, the black and white cat who is Cubitus' nemesis.\n\nA vast majority of the album publications collect single page gags, but a few gather collections of shorter stories or, in rare cases, one long story throughout the entire album. Some of the single gag albums or short story compilations are thematic, with for instance in \"\"Cubitus illustre ses ancêtres\" revisiting history of humankind, \"L'ami ne fait pas le moine\"\" being pastiches of fellow authors from \"Tintin\" magazine or \"Les enquêtes de l'inspecteur Cubitus\" where he is a fictional police inspector.\n\n\nEvery now and them appears:\n\n\"Cubitus\" first appeared in the Franco-Belgian comics magazine \"Tintin\" on April 16, 1968. The series gained immediate popularity, and began album publication in 1972. After several years of gags and album publications, it became the title strip for a magazine of its own. The first publication of \"Cubitus\" was published by Le Lombard in December 1989, though it proved short-lived, lasting only six issues.\n\nIn 2005, the series was relaunched by Pierre Aucaigne (scenarist), and Michel Rodrigue (artist) under the title \"Les nouvelles aventures de Cubitus\".\n\n\n\nIn 1977, the strip was adapted into an animated short film by the French studio Belvision.\n\nIn 1988, the strip was adapted into a Japanese cartoon series named \"Don Don Domeru to Ron\", which was re-titled as \"Wowser\" for American audiences. Dubbed by Saban Entertainment, it is the only part of \"Cubitus\" that has been translated into English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33140090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33140090", "title": "Curved Form (Bryher)", "text": "Curved Form (Bryher)\n\nCurved Form (Bryher) is a bronze sculpture by Barbara Hepworth, modeled in 1961.\n\nIt was an edition of seven.\nExamples are located at the Annmarie Sculpture Garden, Solomons, Maryland, on loan from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art,\nand at the De Doelen concert hall, Rotterdam.\n\nIt is one of three works modeled in 1961, after discussion with Dag Hammarskjöld, along with \"Single Form (Chun Quoit)\", and \"Single Form (September)\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44388624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44388624", "title": "Dance of Time (Clodion)", "text": "Dance of Time (Clodion)\n\nThe Dance of Time: Three Nymphs Supporting a Clock is a work by the French sculptor Claude Michel (1738–1814), also known as Clodion. Executed in 1788, it includes three terracotta female figures, frequently described as nymphs, dancing around a column that supports a pendulum clock with rotating annular dial by Jean-Baptiste Lepaute (1727–1802), the younger brother of Jean-André Lepaute. It is the only eighteenth-century clock featuring a terracotta sculpture as a completed work of art known to scholars.\n\nClodion may have been influenced by Poussin's painting, \"A Dance to the Music of Time\", which was executed between 1634 and 1636 for Giulio Rospigliosi, the future Clement IX, and features figures personifying the hours, the seasons, and the fortunes of mankind. According to the seventeenth-century art critic and biographer Gian Pietro Bellori, the patron was primarily responsible for formulating the iconography of this painting, which reflects on the cycles of life through the representation of the passage of time. Although the painting remained in the Rospigliosi family until 1713, the composition was well known through prints and painted copies. The painting eventually passed through the collection of Cardinal Fesch, uncle of Napoleon Bonaparte, sometime after 1713 and appears to have been in France until 1845. Another source for Clodion's sculpture may have been a Roman copy of a Hellenistic marble group known as the \"Three Nymphs\", which is presently in the collection of the Louvre. Thus, the three graceful figures could represent nymphs, the Three Graces, or the Horae–female deities personifying the passage of time. It is also possible that the dancing maidens were meant to evoke all of these associations while, as one specialist in eighteenth-century sculpture has noted, playing on the theme of the caryatid.\n\nThe clock was acquired by The Frick Collection in 2006 with funds provided by Winthrop Kellogg Edey (1938-1999), an American connoisseur and collector of clocks and watches and a leading scholar on horology. The Edey Collection includes a bequest of twenty-five clocks, fourteen watches, and a reference library relating to the history of time measurement.\n\n"}
{"id": "14371827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14371827", "title": "De moribus tartarorum, lituanorum et moscorum", "text": "De moribus tartarorum, lituanorum et moscorum\n\nDe moribus tartarorum, lituanorum et moscorum (\"On the Customs of Tatars, Lithuanians and Muscovites\") is a 16th-century Latin treatise by Michalo Lituanus (\"Michael the Lithuanian\"). The work, which was originally dedicated to Grand Duke of Lithuania Sigismund II Augustus, survived only in ten fragments that were first published in 1615 by Johann Grasser in Basel, Switzerland.\n\nThe identity of the author, also known as Michalon Litwin or Michalo the Lithuanian, is not known. In the book's title his name is given in the genitive as \"Michalonis Lithuani\". Modern historians, including the Lithuanian Ignas Jonynas and the Russian Matvey Lubavsky, have identified the author as Michał Tyszkiewicz, the Lithuanian envoy to the Crimean Tatars in 1537–39. The Polish historian Jerzy Ochmański meanwhile has proposed the publicist and humanist Venceslaus Nicolaus (Vaclovas Mikalojaitis, c.1490 – c.1560), who served as a secretary in the Grand Duke's chancery for about 30 years.\n\nThe treatise is thought to date from around 1550: the author's ideas and writing style show the clear influence of humanism.\n\nWhile the treatise contains some useful historical information, this should be treated with care. The work is neither a chronicle nor a travel book, but is rather a political essay which is critical of the author's motherland (Grand Duchy of Lithuania) and overly praises Muscovy and the Crimean Khanate for their centralized governments and united subjects. The author examines the reasons behind Lithuania's decreasing power and influence, criticises the nobility and high Catholic officials, and advocates a strong centralized government. He further idealizes the era of Vytautas the Great, when the ruling class supposedly did not pursue self-interests, and instead served the state.\n\nMichalo supports the theory that the Lithuanian nation was founded by the legendary dynasty of the Palemonids, in the times of the Late Roman Empire, and he proposes introducing Latin as the Grand Duchy's official language, thereby restoring forgotten ancestral traditions. As proof of the similarity between Lithuanian and Latin, Michalo includes a list of 74 words that are similar in the two languages. He also compares ancient Roman traditions with pagan Lithuanian customs.\n"}
{"id": "458505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=458505", "title": "Domain name registrar", "text": "Domain name registrar\n\nA domain name registrar is an organization that manages the reservation of Internet domain names. A domain name registrar must be accredited by a generic top-level domain (gTLD) registry or a country code top-level domain (ccTLD) registry. A registrar operates in accordance with the guidelines of the designated domain name registries.\n\nUntil 1999, Network Solutions Inc. (NSI) operated the registries for the \"com\", \"net\", and \"org\" top-level domains (TLDs). In addition to the function of domain name registry operator, it was also the sole registrar for these domains. However, several companies had developed independent registrar services. In 1996 one such company, NetNames, developed the concept of a standalone commercial domain name registration service which would sell domain registration and other associated services to the public, effectively establishing the retail arm of an industry with the registries being the wholesalers. NSI assimilated this model, which ultimately led to the separation of registry and registrar functions.\n\nIn 1997, PGMedia filed an anti-trust suit against NSI citing the DNS root zone as an essential facility, and the US National Science Foundation (NSF) was joined as a defendant in this action. Ultimately, NSI was granted immunity from anti-trust litigation, but the litigation created enough pressure to restructure the domain name market.\n\nIn October 1998, following pressure from the growing domain name registration business and other interested parties, NSI's agreement with the United States Department of Commerce was amended. This amendment required the creation of a shared registration system that supported multiple registrars. This system officially commenced service on November 30, 1999 under the supervision of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), although there had been several testbed registrars using the system since March 11, 1999. Since then, over 900 registrars have entered the market for domain name registration services.\n\nOf the registrars who initially entered the market, many have continued to grow and outpace rivals. Go Daddy is the largest registrar, but has very poor reviews from customers. Other more successful registrars include eNom, Tucows, Melbourne IT. Registrars who initially led the market but later were surpassed by rivals include Network Solutions and Dotster.\n\nEach ICANN-accredited registrar must pay a fixed fee of US$4,000 plus a variable fee. The sum of variable registrar fees is intended to total US$3.8 million. The competition created by the shared registration system enables end users to choose from many registrars offering a range of related services at varying prices.\n\nDomain registration information is maintained by the domain name registries, which contract with domain registrars to provide registration services to the public. An end user selects a registrar to provide the registration service, and that registrar becomes the \"designated registrar\" for the domain chosen by the user.\n\nOnly the designated registrar may modify or delete information about domain names in a central registry database. It is not unusual for an end user to switch registrars, invoking a domain transfer process between the registrars involved, that is governed by specific domain name transfer policies.\n\nWhen a registrar registers a com domain name for an end-user, it must pay a maximum annual fee of US$7.85 to VeriSign, the registry operator for com, and a US$0.18 annual administration fee to ICANN. Most domain registrars price their services and products to address both the annual fees and the administration fees that must be paid to ICANN. Barriers to entry into the bulk registrar industry are high for new companies without an existing customer base.\n\nMany registrars also offer registration through reseller affiliates. An end-user registers either directly with a registrar, or indirectly through one or more layers of resellers. As of 2010, the retail cost generally ranges from a low of about $7.50 per year to about $35 per year for a simple domain registration, although registrars often drop the price far lower – sometimes even free – when ordered with other products such as web hosting services.\n\nThe maximum period of registration for a domain name is 10 years. Some registrars offer longer periods of up to 100 years, but such offers involve the registrar renewing the registration for their customer; the 100-year registration would not be in the official registration database.\n\nRegistration of a domain name establishes a set of name server records in the DNS servers of the parent domain, indicating the IP addresses of DNS servers that are authoritative for the domain. This provides a reference for direct queries of domain data.\n\nRegistration of a domain does not automatically imply the provision of DNS services for the registered domain. Most registrars do offer DNS hosting as an optional free service for domains registered through them. If DNS services are not offered, or the end-user opts out, the end-user is responsible for procuring or self-hosting DNS services. Registrars require the specification of usually at least two name servers.\n\nThe Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC) is a suite of Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) specifications for securing certain kinds of information provided by the Domain Name System. This involves a registrar processing public key data and creating DS records for addition into the parent zone. All new GTLD registries and registrars must support DNSSEC.\n\nA domain name transfer is the process of changing the designated registrar of a domain name. ICANN has defined a \"Policy on Transfer of Registrations between Registrars\". The usual process of a domain name transfer is\n\nAfter this process, the new registrar is the domain name's designated registrar. The process may take about five days. In some cases, the old registrar may intentionally delay the transfer as long as allowable. After transfer, the domain cannot be transferred again for 60 days, except back to the previous registrar.\n\nIt is unwise to attempt to transfer a domain immediately before it expires. In some cases, a transfer can take up to 14 days, meaning that the transfer may not complete before the registration expires. This could result in loss of the domain name registration and failure of the transfer. To avoid this, end users should either transfer well before the expiration date, or renew the registration before attempting the transfer.\n\nIf a domain registration expires, irrespective of the reason, it can be difficult, expensive, or impossible for the original owner to get it back. After the expiration date, the domain status often passes through several management phases, often for a period of months; usually it does not simply become generally available.\n\nThe introduction of a shared registry system opened up the previous domain registration monopoly to new entities known as registrars, which were qualified by ICANN to do business. Many registrars had to compete with each other, and although some companies offered value added services or used viral marketing, others, such as VeriSign and the Domain Registry of America attempted to trick customers to switch from their current registrar using a practice known as domain slamming.\n\nMany of these transfer scams involve a notice sent in the mail, fax, or e-mail. Some scammers contact end-users by telephone (because the contact information is available through WHOIS) to obtain more information. These notices would include information publicly available from the WHOIS database to add to the look of authenticity. The text would include legalese to confuse the end user into thinking that it is an official binding notice. Scam registrars go after domain names that are expiring soon or have recently expired. Domain name expiry dates are readily available via WHOIS.\n\nA \"drop catcher\" is a domain name registrar who offers the service of attempting to quickly register a given domain name for a customer if that name becomes available—that is, to \"catch\" a \"dropped\" name—when the domain name's registration expires and is then deleted, either because the registrant abandons the domain or because the registrant did not renew the registration prior to deletion.\n\nSeveral organizations post market-share-ranked lists of domain name registrars and numbers of domains registered at each. The published lists differ in which top-level domains (TLDs) they use; in the frequency of updates; and in whether their basic data is absolute numbers provided by registries, or daily changes derived from Zone files.\n\nThe lists appear to all use at most 16 publicly available generic TLDs (gTLDs) that existed as of December 2009, plus .us. A February 2010 ICANN \"zone file access concept paper\" explains that most country code TLD (ccTLD) registries stopped providing zone files in 2003, citing abuse.\n\nPublished rankings and reports include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21930832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21930832", "title": "Fischer catalog", "text": "Fischer catalog\n\nThe Fischer Catalogue of Polish stamps (Katalog Polskich Znaków Pocztowych ) is a yearly publication in catalogue form of postage stamps relating to Poland.\n\nThe purpose of the catalogue is to describe postage stamps related to Poland and to estimate their value in the philatelic market.\n\nThe catalogue is published in Poland by Firma Handlowo-Usługowa Andrzej Fischer, 41-902 Bytom, Rynek 11. Editor/publishers are Andrzej Fischer, Stanisław Styła, and Jerzy Walocha.\n\nThe catalogue is issued yearly in two volumes: Tom I and Tom II. All postage stamps are illustrated in full colour. Value of individual stamps is listed in Polish currency. An introduction has sections written in Polish, German, and also in English.\n\nThe catalogue covers the full extent of Polish philately and is comprehensive in the following categories.\n\nThe catalogue lists a number of experts who can verify authenticity of rare Polish stamps. These experts are listed under “Lista ekspertów Polskiego Związku Filatelistów i ekspertów międzynarodowych.”\n\nThe catalogue is available in Poland, as well as in the United States and Canada. Requests for information related to the purchase of the catalogs should be directed to the Polonus philatelic society, located in Chicago, Illinois.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36884651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36884651", "title": "Former Military Chapel (Bachelor Quarters)", "text": "Former Military Chapel (Bachelor Quarters)\n\nThe Former Military Chapel (Bachelor Quarters) is a building on Alcatraz Island off the coast of San Francisco, United States. It is located next to the Sally Port and Dock and the Building 64 residential apartments. It was built in the 1920s in the mission-revival style to accommodate for the officers at the military prison on the island. The ground floor had quarters for the officers and their families who worked at the military prison and the top floor was used as a school and chapel. It functioned as a Sunday School for children of the military personnel on Sundays.\nIn 1934, when Alcatraz became a Federal Penitentiary, the building was used as a Bachelor Quarters for unmarried officers.\n"}
{"id": "45229950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45229950", "title": "Found in collection", "text": "Found in collection\n\n\"Found in collection\" or FIC is a term used by a museum to refer to \"undocumented objects that remain without status after all attempts to reconcile them to existing records of permanent collection and loan objets are completed\". Despite the best efforts of museum staff, museums often have FIC items. This term was developed so that collections with incomplete provenance would be handled ethically and with transparency. Depending on the paperwork and information accompanying the material, the museum has several choices in how to proceed.\n\nMuseums today are meticulous about the documentation they keep when accessioning new items into their collections. However, this was not always the case. As the museum field professionalized so did the standard of paperwork required to accession a collection. Items can become FIC artifacts if records were not kept initially or if the documentation regarding the property transfer was lost in a disaster such as a fire or flood. Additionally, if the museum is old, it has decades of accessioning paperwork that may require its own preservation plan.\n\nFIC collections can also be the result of long-term or permanent loans where contact has lapsed between the two parties. It is for this reason that most museums now renew their loans on an annual basis.\n\n\nMuseums require three pieces of information to accession a collection. \n\nThe most common way this is achieved is through a Deed of Gift, which states these three criteria in one document\n\nPlease seek professional legal advice when dealing with FIC materials. Regardless of whether or not the museum wishes to retain ownership of the item, if possible the collections staff should contact the previous owner to either obtain a deed of gift or return the collection.\n\nIn order to keep track of the FIC collection, a temporary number should be assigned that is completely different in format from the museum's accession number to avoid further confusion. Whether the item is to be accessioned or deaccessioned, it requires establishing a chain of custody, which can be started with the application of a temporary number and assemblage of any associated documentation.\n\nIt should try to obtain ownership by following its state's unclaimed property laws or applicable international conventions. If during the found property process a claimant wishes to challenge the museum's tie to the collection, the claimant must support their case with evidential paperwork. \nIf the museum does not want to keep the artifacts due to them being irrelevant to its mission or outside of its collecting scope, it has several options. If the museum can contact the previous owner or heirs it should do so and return the collection. If the collection has no associated paperwork, the museum should follow the appropriate laws and conventions. Once it establishes ownership through that process the museum can legally and ethically follow its deaccession procedures. This may involve transfer the collection to another cultural institution, selling the collection at public auction, or if all other methods fail, destruction of the collection.\n\nThe 1970 UNESCO Convention was created to provide a platform and environment in which countries could discuss situations in which cultural property may have been illegally transported. Throughout history cultural property has been taken as the spoils of war or trafficked by desperate individuals in order to make a profit. For this reason museums may have to consider the 1970 UNESCO convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export, and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property when sifting through FIC collections. It is important to pay particularly close attention to documentation of items that may have been acquired from conflict zones as sometimes customs forms and bills of sale are faked.\n\nThe Antiquities Act of 1906, signed by Theodore Roosevelt, was the first federal law enacted in response to a growing concern regarding the protection of cultural property. The law stated that antiquities could not be removed or damaged on federal property without the express permission of the government. While not completely enforced in its day, it did set a precedent for caring for national cultural property.\n\nThe Archaeological Resources Protection Act (ARPA) was a much needed upgrade to the 1906 Antiquities Act. It updated definitions to close loopholes and increased fines and penalties for violators. If museums have FIC collections that may have been obtained in violation of the 1906 and 1979 legislation, they should seek legal advice and follow the provisions in the Acts.\n\nThe Native American Graves Protection Act (NAGPRA) was signed into law in 1990 to specifically to \"affirm the rights of lineal descendants, Indian tribes, and Native Hawaiian organizations to custody of Native American human remains, funerary objects, sacred objects, and objects of cultural patrimony that are in the control of federal agencies and museums\". Unfortunately throughout the history of the United States, Native American cultural property and even human remains were not acquired with the consent, let alone documentation. Because of this, Native American and Native Hawaiian artifacts are often FIC. In trying to resolve these culturally sensitive FIC items, NAGPRA legislation should be followed.\n\nWhile most unclaimed property laws refer to unclaimed finances, the procedures regarding artifacts are similar. \n\n"}
{"id": "39973100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39973100", "title": "Google Cultural Institute", "text": "Google Cultural Institute\n\nGoogle Cultural Institute is an initiative unveiled by Google following the 2011 launch of the Google Arts & Culture (formerly Google Art Project).\n\nThe Cultural Institute was launched in 2011, and put 42 new exhibits online on October 10, 2012. It is \"an effort to make important cultural material available and accessible to everyone and to digitally preserve it to educate and inspire future generations.\" As of June 2013, it included over 6 million items - photos, videos, and documents. \n\nThe Cultural Institute has partnered with a number of institutions to make exhibition and archival content available online, including the British Museum, Yad Vashem, the Museo Galileo in Florence, Center for Jewish History in New York City, Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum, and the Museum of Polish History in Warsaw. The earliest notable project was a searchable archive and online digital exhibition series, in partnership with the Nelson Mandela Centre of Memory, which allowed people to access Nelson Mandela's personal diaries and previously unreleased drafts of his manuscripts for the sequel to his autobiography Long Walk to Freedom.\n\nThe Cultural Institute includes (and increasingly subsumes) the Google Arts & Culture, which features high-resolution images of artworks from museums in over 40 countries; the World Wonders Project, which presents three-dimensional recreations of world heritage sites; and archival exhibitions, many in partnership with museums around the world.\n"}
{"id": "27569526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27569526", "title": "Grandes Heures of Anne of Brittany", "text": "Grandes Heures of Anne of Brittany\n\nThe Grandes Heures of Anne of Brittany (\"Les Grandes Heures d'Anne de Bretagne\" in French) is a book of hours, commissioned by Anne of Brittany, Queen of France to two kings in succession, and illuminated in Tours or perhaps Paris by Jean Bourdichon between 1503 and 1508. It has been described by John Harthan as \"one of the most magnificent Books of Hours ever made\", and is now in the Bibliothèque nationale de France as Ms lat. 9474. It has 49 full-page miniatures in a Renaissance style, and more than 300 pages have large borders illustrated with a careful depiction of, usually, a single species of plant.\n\nThe book is large for a book of hours at 30.5 cm by 20 cm, and consists of 476 pages including 49 full-page miniatures, 12 calendar pages with genre scenes of the months of the year, two pages of Anne's heraldic devices, and 337 pages with illuminated borders showing flowers and other plants. The full-page miniatures have large figures in an advanced Renaissance style for France at this date, drawing on both Italian and Flemish painting, and with well-developed perspective. There are gold highlights on the figures, a technique taken from Bourdichon's master Jean Fouquet, and the miniatures are framed with imitation gilded wood picture frames of the type found in Early Netherlandish painting, a style Bourdichon used in some other miniatures. Similar frames surround the miniatures of the Sforza Hours, begun in Italy in the 1490s. Outside the frames the edges of these pages are painted plain black. Some landscape backgrounds suggest a knowledge of the \"sfumato\" style of Leonardo da Vinci. In particular specific borrowings from the architecture of Bramante and the painting of Perugino suggest that Bourdichon may have made an unrecorded visit to Italy.\n\nThere is a donor portrait of Anne at prayer, presented by her patron saints to the dead Christ held by the Virgin Mary in a Pietà on the facing page, the Virgin meeting Anne's gaze. Night-scenes include a famous Annunciation to the Shepherds and the Nativity. Despite the general \"sweetness of Bourdichon's style\", the work contains gruesome images of the mass martyrdoms of Saint Ursula's eleven thousand virgin companions and the Theban Legion, though rather characteristically both show moments after the action and contain relatively little movement. Scenes from the \"Life of Christ\" and that of the Virgin are depicted as well as a number of portraits and scenes of saints. F. 197v has the rare scene of the Virgin Mary being taught how to read by Saint Anne, who is seated on a dais like a medieval professor.\nThe book is also remarkable for its realistic representations of 337 plants in the borders that most text pages are given. There are flowers, cultivated and wild, shrubs, some trees and among the plants a wide variety of insects and small animals of the countryside. The plants include \"Cannabis sativa\" on f. 90v, and the major cereal crops of the day on ff. 94–96. The insects represented are butterflies and moths, dragonflies, grasshoppers, caterpillars, beetles, flies, carpenter bees, crickets, earwigs, bees and beetles. The small animals represented are snakes, lizards, slow worms, frogs, turtles, squirrels, snails, rabbits, monkeys and spiders. The style borrows from the elaborate and realistic borders of natural life developed in the preceding decades by Flemish illuminators, but unlike them Bourdichon generally treats only one species on a page, and often shows roots and bulbs, and labels each page with the plant's name in Latin and French, in the manner of a florilegium or a herbal (a book on medicinal plants). In most pages the border is a single panel to the outside of the text, but in others it surrounds the text on all four sides. The plants are shown as if laid out on a plain coloured surface, upon which they cast a shadow. In 1894 Giulio Camus wrote an account of the plants in the work, and a full modern facsimile was published in 2008. There are 395 images from the book available online through the BnF.\n\nAnne of Brittany was the last independent ruler of Brittany, inheriting the Duchy as a girl of twelve in 1488, and securing her inheritance was a crucial matter for both the House of Habsburg and the French Crown. She first conducted a proxy marriage with Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor, then still heir to the Empire, who had already acquired the Duchy of Burgundy for his son by his first wife Mary of Burgundy (who like Anne's father had died in a riding accident). But there was a recent treaty between Brittany and France requiring French consent to Anne's marriage, and this had not been obtained. After a French invasion, the marriage was swiftly annulled and one arranged with Charles VIII of France. All their four children died as infants, so when Charles died in 1498, logic dictated a marriage with his cousin and successor, Louis XII, once he had annulled his marriage with Anne's sister-in-law Jeanne de France. After many more pregnancies and stillborn children, at her death in 1514 Anne left two daughters, of whom Claude married François I, the cousin who succeeded to the throne.\n\nAccording to a letter from the queen written in March 1508, Jean Bourdichon, who was one of the main artists regularly working for the court, was paid the sum of 1500 livres tournois in the form of 600 écus, although it seems the payment was not made for several years. In all, four books of hours belonging to Anne survive, including the \"Très Petites Heures d'Anne de Bretagne\" (BnF Ms nouv. acq. 3120) of about 1498, another with the same name in the Morgan Library in New York (M. 50), and the \"Petites Heures d'Anne de Bretagne\" (BnF Ms nouv. acq. 3027) of around 1503. Prayers like \"Obsecro te\", which are written in Latin, contain words such as pronouns that indicate the gender of the supplicant. More often than not, the words indicate that the supplicant is male, even if the supplicant is female, suggesting that the prayer books were intended to be passed on as an heirloom that males would be able to use. This is true of the \"Obsecro te\" in the \"Grandes Heures of Anne of Brittany\". After Anne's death the book remained in the hands of the French royal family until the Revolution, and then passed to the government.\n\nThe book comes very late in the history of the illuminated manuscript, and the conception of the full-page miniatures as resembling a series of individual panel paintings, complete with frames, has seemed to many art historians a prophecy of the direction art was to take, and something of an abdication of the distinct needs of book illustration. Anthony Blunt noted that \"Many of his designs – for instance the 'St Sebastian' – look in reproduction like altarpieces rather than miniatures; and to this extent his art represents the decay of true illumination\". However, royalty and the grandest other patrons continued to commission manuscripts for several further decades, and in some cases well after that, and the miniatures of the Grandes Heures are integrated with the texts of the book in the traditional ways. For example, the borders opposite miniatures are often co-ordinated with them in terms of colour. By Anne's day printing was well established, with Paris as one of Europe's leading centres, and she also patronized printed books and their authors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43726010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43726010", "title": "HistoryWorld", "text": "HistoryWorld\n\nHistoryWorld is an interactive online history encyclopaedia that seeks to make world history more easily accessible through interactive narratives and timelines. It was established by Bamber Gascoigne who has been developing it since 1994. It went online in June 2001 and in 2002 it won the \"New Statesman\" New Media award for the best educational website. In 2007 Gascoigne launched a related site, at TimeSearch, using timelines as a way of searching the internet.\n\n\"HistoryWorld\" currently consists of about 300 narratives and some 10,000 events on searchable timelines. All the content (apart from \"The Wellcome History of Medicine\", by Dr Carole Reeves) has been written by Gascoigne.\n\nThe \"HistoryWorld\" website, which is free to use, also contains more than 5000 entries from Gascoigne's \"Encyclopedia of Britain\", originally published by Macmillan in 1993, and a pilot project, \"Places in History for Richmond-upon-Thames\", which uses placemarks in Google Maps to identify the exact position of a building, street or other feature, with a satellite view of the location. The maps then link to pages in \"HistoryWorld\" for historical details, images and timelines.\n\nHarvey McGavin, writing in the \"TES\", said that the history website \"is remarkably easy to navigate\" and \"should help teachers and pupils find all the answers\".\n\n"}
{"id": "51169185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51169185", "title": "James Whitney Fosburgh", "text": "James Whitney Fosburgh\n\nJames Whitney Fosburgh (August 1, 1910 – August 23, 1978) was an American painter, art collector, and art historian. In addition to lecturing and writing about art, he served as Chairman of the Special Committee for White House Paintings under both President Kennedy and President Johnson. Fosburgh and his wife, Mary (\"Minnie\") Cushing, were prominent art collectors in New York City.\n\nJames Whitney Fosburgh was born in New York on August 1, 1910. He was the son of James Boies Alleyne Fosburgh (1879–1926) and Leila Whitney (d. 1913). After his mothers death in 1913, his father married his mother's younger sister, Eleanor Newton Whitney (1887–1930). His father, who was from Buffalo, New York, was also a Yale graduate.\n\nHe graduated from Yale University in 1933, and afterwards completed a Master's thesis on the journals of Thomas Sully, receiving his M.A. from Yale University in 1935. In 1955, he joined the governing board of the Yale Art Gallery, later the Yale University Art Gallery.\n\nDuring World War II, Fosburgh enlisted as a glider pilot and served with the 101st Airborne Division.\n\nHe later returned to New York and worked at The Frick Collection, first as a docent, from October 1935-June 1938, and later as lecturer, from October 1947-May 1954. During this time, he began to exhibit his artwork throughout the city. In the 1950s and 1960s, he participated in group and solo shows at Durlacher Bros. Gallery, Kennedy Galleries, and Coe Kerr Galleries.\n\nThroughout the Kennedy administration, First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy endeavored to restore the interiors of the White House and bring historical character to the space. Soon after her husband took office, Kennedy formed the Fine Arts Committee for the White House, naming Henry F. du Pont Chairman and serving herself as Honorary Chairman.\n\nIn November 1961, Jacqueline Kennedy and Henry F. du Pont established a Special Committee for White House Paintings, part of the Fine Arts Committee for the White House, and appointed Fosburgh head of the new group. Until that point, the expertise and interests of Fine Arts Committee members had been largely focused on antique furnishings, not pictures. Fosburgh's Committee was charged with expanding the White House collection of paintings, including portraits, landscapes, and still lifes, and replacing \"certain non-historic paintings of past Presidents with those which were actually painted from life.\" Within two years, the Special Committee had acquired over 150 new works for the collection.\n\nJacqueline Kennedy retained for her own collection, Fosburgh's posthumous portrait of John F. Kennedy, which was featured on the November 5, 1965 cover of LIFE Magazine. Other works by Fosburgh are in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, and The Frick Collection.\n\nIn 1953, Fosburgh married Mary (\"Minnie\") Cushing (1906–1978), who had recently divorced Vincent Astor after thirteen years of marriage. Together, Fosburgh and Mary Cushing developed a significant collection of art, primarily comprising American and European paintings from the 18th and 19th centuries.\n"}
{"id": "39394250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39394250", "title": "Jetha v R", "text": "Jetha v R\n\nJetha v Rex is an important case in South African criminal law, with its bearing on the defence of impossibility. It was heard in the Natal Provincial Division on April 22, 1929, by Dove-Wilson JP, Tatham J and Matthews J. It was an appeal from the Durban Magistrate's Court. TB Horwood appeared for the appellant and JDM Rosenow for the Crown. The appellant's attorneys were CP Robinson & Goulding.\n\nThe appellant sailed for India on October 11, 1926; his estate was provisionally sequestrated on October 13, 1926. In March 1929, after his return, he was convicted of contravening section 142(a) of the Insolvency Act, in that he had failed to attend the first meeting of his creditors, held on November 11, 1926.\n\nThe magistrate, in his reasons, stated that he was satisfied, on the facts set out above, that it was physically impossible for appellant to attend the meeting. He convicted the appellant because he must have been aware, when he left the Union, of the act of insolvency which must have preceded his sequestration. His failure to attend the meeting, therefore, was due to his own fault in leaving the Union with knowledge of such act. The magistrate referred to \"R v Mahomed Abbas and \"R v Mayer Brothers, and said that, since the trial, his attention had been drawn to the case of \"R v Moosa\".\n\nDove-Wilson JP held on appeal for the Natal Provincial Division that the appellant did not know and could not have known of the date of the meeting until after it was held. In addition, it would have been physically impossible for him to attend even if he had known the date. There was, therefore, no ground for his conviction.\n\nIn \"Rex v Korsten\", a slightly earlier case, Dove-Wilson JP had rejected the defence of impossibility, since in there the duty with which the accused had failed to comply was an absolute one: \"It is no excuse for him to say that he was ignorant [of the law...]. It was his duty to make himself aware of it, and if his neglect to do so has brought about his failure [to comply...], he has contravened the law.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46502855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46502855", "title": "Jingbirok", "text": "Jingbirok\n\nThe Jingbirok ( known in English as the Book of Corrections), written in Hanmun, is a first hand account of the Imjin War written by high ranking Joseon scholar-official Ryu Seong-ryong. Party to high level decision making on the allied Ming-Joseon side and able to access all Joseon records, Ryu Seong-ryong's \"Jingbirok\" has become an invaluable source in the study of the conflict, and Chinese-Korean-Japanese relations. In 1969 the \"Jingbirok\" was listed as the 132nd of the National Treasures of South Korea.\n\nRyu Seong-ryong (1542–1607) was born in Uiseong, in Gyeongsang province, during the Korean Joseon Dynasty, to a yangban family of the Pungsan Ryu clan. Passing the \"Samsai\" level of the Gwageo civil service examination in 1564, and the \"Mungwa\" level in 1566, Ryu rose through the ranks of the scholar-official bureaucracy holding various positions including \"Jwauijeong\" (Second State Councillor) and \"Ijo Panseo\" (Minister of Personnel). At the time of the 1592 Japanese invasion of Korea Ryu held the position of a provincial \"Dochechalsa\". During the war Ryu was appointed \"Yeonguijeong\" (First State Councillor), and it was in this capacity that he helped direct the Joseon defences, being responsible for all Joseon military units and leaders, including Yi Sun-sin and Gwon Yul.\n\nAfter the war in 1598, Ryu was ousted from office by factional infighting, although he was later rehabilitated he refused to serve again in high office. The \"Jingbirok\" was written and compiled at this time by Ryu in his home village, now preserved in the Hahoe Folk Village, in today's Andong, North Gyeongsang Province.\n\nRyu Seong-ryong wrote the \"Jingbirok\" in order to prevent such an invasion from happening again, reflecting on the mistakes. In the preface he writes that during the conflict the Joseon state suffered \"the loss of three capitals, and collapse everywhere\" (三都失守，八方瓦解) reflecting on his own role in this he wrote that he was \"not up to the task the nation entrusted, the ills that nation suffered was because of threats not grasped, this cannot be swept away, nor can death atone for this guilt\" (無似受國重任，於流離板蕩之際，危不持，顛不扶，罪死無赦). Ryu placed the blame for the disaster suffered by Joseon on his own inadequate emphasis on national security, and was therefore resolved to properly document hard lessons dearly paid for, with the hope that following generations could avoid the mistakes that he had made. Although the \"Jingbirok\" includes details of Japanese atrocities, the focus of the \"Jingbirok\" is on Joseon failures, and Ryu is harsher in his assessment of his own side than he is of the enemy.\n\nThe \"Jingbirok\" was written in Hanmun, therefore it was as equally accessible to the classically educated scholars of China, Japan and Vietnam as it was to classically educated Koreans.\n\nThe early form of the \"Jingbirok\" was completed by the time of the 37th year of King Seonjo's reign (1604) and consisted of sixteen scrolls and a coda:\n\n\nBy 1633 (11th year of King Injo's reign) this had evolved into a widely read two volume format known as the \"Seoaejip\" consisting of the \"Jingibrok\" and Ryu Seong-ryong's \"The Anthology of Seoae\" (). In 1647 the \"Jingibrok\" was issued as a single stand alone volume.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38594431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38594431", "title": "John Christopher Atkinson", "text": "John Christopher Atkinson\n\nJohn Christopher Atkinson (1814–1900) was an English author, antiquary, and priest.\n\nBorn on 9 May 1814 at Goldhanger in Essex, where his father was then curate, he was the son of John Atkinson and the grandson of Christopher Atkinson (d. 18 March 1795), fellow of Trinity Hall, Cambridge. He was educated at Kelvedon in Essex, and admitted as a sizar to St. John's College, Cambridge, on 2 May 1834, graduating B.A. in 1838.\n\nAtkinson was ordained deacon in 1841 as curate of Brockhampton in Herefordshire, and priest in 1842. He afterwards held a curacy in Scarborough. In 1847 he became domestic chaplain to William Dawnay, 7th Viscount Downe, who in the same year presented him to the vicarage of Danby, in the North Riding of Yorkshire, which he held till his death.\n\nAtkinson's parish was in rural Yorkshire, and on his arrival he found that clerical duties had been neglected. He set himself to learn the history of his parish cure and to gain the friendship of his parishioners; and learned local legends and customs. In 1887 he received the honorary degree of D.C.L. from Durham University, and in 1891 he was installed in the prebend of Holme in York Cathedral. In 1898 he received a grant of £100 a year from the civil list.\n\nAtkinson died at The Vicarage, Danby, on 31 March 1900.\n\nAtkinson is best known for \"Forty Years in a Moorland Parish\" (1891, second edition the same year). Comparisons have been made with Gilbert White's \"Natural History of Selborne\", and Hugh Miller's \"Scenes and Legends of the North of Scotland\".\n\nIn 1867 Atkinson prepared for the Philological Society \"A Glossary of the Dialect of the Hundred of Lonsdale\", which was published in the society's \"Transactions\". It was followed in 1868 by \"A Glossary of the Cleveland Dialect\", to which, for the English Dialect Society, he made \"Additions\" in 1876. In 1872 he published the first volume of \"The History of Cleveland, Ancient and Modern\", London; part of a second volume appeared in 1877, but it was not completed. Other works were:\n\n\nHe edited:\n\n\nHe also contributed papers to archaeological societies, and in 1872 assisted Hensleigh Wedgwood in revising his \"Dictionary of English Etymology\".\n\nAtkinson was married three times: first, at Scarborough on 11 December 1849, to Jane Hill (d. 2 April 1860), eldest daughter of John Hill Coulson of Scarborough ; secondly, on 1 February 1862, at Frome Selwood, to Georgina Mary, eldest daughter of Barlow Slade of North House, Frome ; and thirdly, on 28 April 1884 at Arncliff church, to Helen Georgina, eldest daughter of Douglas Brown, Q. C ., of Arncliff Hall, Northallerton. He had thirteen children.\n\n"}
{"id": "41304482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41304482", "title": "Libramatic", "text": "Libramatic\n\nLibramatic is a cloud-based library management service provider based in Dublin, Ireland\n\nLibramatic allows librarians to catalog library inventory by scanning an ISBN using a smartphone's camera or by using a USB barcode scanner on a personal computer.\n\nLibramatic officially launched in July 2012 at a startup event in Dublin.\n\nBy utilising a correlation of multiple online data sources, it searches for information on that book using an undisclosed algorithm and stores it allowing librarians to circulate books based on an ISBN.\n\nThe use of online library management systems has increased drastically since the rise of \"cloud\" technology. Many modern cloud-based solutions now allow automated cataloging by scanning a book's ISBN. This technology was pioneered by Libramatic, although it is currently in use by systems such as LibraryWorld.\n"}
{"id": "24622707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24622707", "title": "Lieutenant of the Tower of London", "text": "Lieutenant of the Tower of London\n\nThe Lieutenant of the Tower of London served directly under the Constable of the Tower. The office was appointed at least since the 13th century. There were formerly many privileges, immunities and perquisites attached to the office. Like the Constable, the Lieutenant was usually appointed by letters patent, either for life or during the King's pleasure.\n\nThe Lieutenants had custody of many eminent prisoners of state, including Anne Boleyn, Sir Thomas More, Lady Jane Grey, Princess Elizabeth (later Queen Elizabeth I) and Sir Walter Raleigh. At least five of the Lieutenants, Sir Edward Warner, Sir Gervase Helwys, Isaac Penington, Colonel Robert Tichborne, and Sir Edward Hales, themselves later became prisoners in the Tower.\n\nThe earliest known Lieutenant was Giles de Oudenard at the beginning of the reign of Edward I, while Anthony Bek, later Bishop of Durham, was Constable. The next Lieutenant of whom there is record was Ralph Bavant, who served during John de Crumwell's tenure as Constable.\n\nIn the reign of Henry V, Sir Roger Aston served as Lieutenant under William, Lord Bourchier, who was then Constable. Among their notable prisoners was James I of Scotland.\nSir Robert Scott served as Lieutenant in 1424 during the reign of Henry VI.\nDuring the reign of Edward IV, Richard Haute (died 8 April 1487) was Lieutenant from 1471 to 1473.\nJohn de Vere, 13th Earl of Oxford was Constable in the reign of Henry VII, at which time Sir John Digby was his Lieutenant.\nAccording to some sources, in the reign of Henry VIII Sir Thomas Lovell (died 25 May 1524) served as Lieutenant from Michaelmas 1512; however according to other sources, he was Constable of the Tower. Among the prisoners of state in Lovell's custody was the Pretender to the Crown, Lambert Simnel. The Lieutenant from 1513 to 1520 was Sir Richard Cholmondeley (died 1521). Cholmondeley held office during the Evil May Day riots of 1517. During the riots, he furiously ordered the firing of some of the Tower's artillery at the city during rioting by gangs of young Londoners, who took control of London for several days, drawing the ire of the city elders. In 1520, he resigned his post at the Tower due to ill health. He died in March 1521 (1522 by the modern calendar system) in St Katharine's by the Tower.\n\nCholmondeley was succeeded by Sir Edmund Walsingham, Sir William Sidney, Sir Anthony Knyvet, and Sir Walter Stonor. Walsingham had personal charge of a number of eminent prisoners of state during his tenure, among them the Countess of Salisbury, Viscount Lisle, Anne Boleyn, Bishop John Fisher and Sir Thomas More. Leonard Skeffington, son of Sir William Skeffington (died 31 December 1535) is also said to have served as Lieutenant during the reign of Henry VIII and to have invented an instrument of torture used in the Tower; however there appears to be no record of his appointment or tenure as Lieutenant.\n\nDuring the reign of Edward VI, Sir John Markham was appointed Lieutenant in 1549 but dismissed on 31 October 1551 for leniency towards his prisoners, including the Protector Somerset and Sir Michael Stanhope. Sir Arthur Darcy also served briefly as Lieutenant during Edward VI's reign. Sir Edward Warner was appointed Lieutenant in October 1552.\n\nDuring the crisis after the death of Edward VI, Warner held the Tower of London for John Dudley, 1st Duke of Northumberland, and was immediately removed from his post on Queen Mary's accession. In 1554 he was a prisoner in the Tower, but was pardoned in 1555. Queen Mary appointed John Brydges, 1st Baron Chandos as Lieutenant from August 1553 to June 1554. He is said to have 'rigorously' shaken the rebel Thomas Wyatt when he was brought to the Tower, and to have called him a \"villain and unhappy traitor\". He had custody of Lady Jane Grey, who gave him her prayer book as a memento when she was executed, and of the future Queen Elizabeth, whom he was considered to have treated too leniently. He was succeeded by his brother, Sir Thomas Bridges (died 1559). Sir Henry Bedingfield was appointed in October 1555 and served until the end of 1556. He was succeeded by Sir Robert Oxenbridge, who was appointed Lieutenant in 1556, and was Constable in 1557.\n\nWhen Elizabeth I acceded to the throne in November 1558, she reappointed Sir Edward Warner as Lieutenant jointly with Sir Thomas Cawarden. They served together for less than a month, from 17 November to 10 December 1558, and Cawarden died shortly thereafter in August 1559. Warner's most notable prisoner was Lady Katherine Grey, who had incurred the Queen's wrath by secretly marrying Edward Seymour, 1st Earl of Hertford. Warner was dismissed about 1561 for excessive leniency, and was succeeded by Sir Richard Blount, after whose sudden death Sir Francis Jobson was appointed on 20 August 1564. Jobson was Lieutenant during the Northern Rising, and according to Narsingha held office until his own death on 4 June 1573. However according to other sources Sir Owen Hopton was appointed Lieutenant in 1570. Among his prisoners were Henry Wriothesley, 2nd Earl of Southampton, Thomas Howard, 4th Duke of Norfolk, and Norfolk's son and heir, Philip Howard, Earl of Arundel. Financial difficulties occasioned Hopton's resignation in the summer of 1590. Hopton was followed in office by Sir Michael Blount, Sir Richard Berkeley (appointed in 1596) and Sir Drue Drury, who was appointed in November 1595, but resigned due to ill health in September 1596. Sir John Peyton was appointed Lieutenant in June 1597, and as Lieutenant was present at the execution in 1601 of Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex. Another of Peyton's eminent prisoners was Sir Walter Raleigh. On 30 July 1603, shortly after the accession of James I, Peyton was relieved of his post, and appointed Governor of Jersey.\nSir George Harvey (died 10 August 1605) was the first Lieutenant of the Tower under King James. He was succeeded by Sir William Waad, who was Lieutenant during the Gunpowder plot. Waad retired from public life in 1613, and was succeeded in the office by Sir Gervase Helwys, who was appointed on 6 May 1613. During Helwys' tenure as Lieutenant, his prisoner, Sir Thomas Overbury, was poisoned, and on 20 November 1615 Helwys was hanged on Tower Hill for the murder. In October 1615, Sir George More was appointed Lieutenant 'to keep close watch over Robert and Frances Carr, earl and countess of Somerset, over the poisoning of Sir Thomas Overbury'. In January 1617 More was said to be ‘weary of that troublesome and dangerous office’, and sold it, in March of that year, to Sir Allan Apsley for £2500. Sir Thomas Warner also served as Lieutenant by appointment of James I at some time before embarking on colonial ventures in April 1620.\n\nApsley continued to serve as Lieutenant under Charles I until his death. He was succeeded on 18 October 1630 by Sir William Balfour. Balfour resigned the office on 22 December 1641, and on 22 December the King appointed Sir Thomas Lunsford as Lieutenant, sparking opposition from the House of Commons which forced the King to replace Lunsford with Sir John Byron on 26 December. Byron resigned on 11 February 1642, again as a result of pressure from the Commons, and was replaced by Sir John Conyers, who served until 11 August 1643, when he surrendered the office to Sir Robert Harley. The London alderman and Lord Mayor Isaac Penington is said to have been appointed Lieutenant in July 1643, and as Lieutenant to have accompanied Archbishop Laud to his beheading on Tower Hill in 1645. Penington spent the last years of his life as a prisoner in the Tower, and died there on 16 December 1661. He was succeeded in the Lieutenancy by Francis West (died 11 August 1652).\n\nUnder the Protector Oliver Cromwell, John Barkstead was appointed to the Lieutenancy in August 1652, and held the office until 1659. In August 1647 Colonel Robert Tichborne was appointed Lieutenant. Both Barkstead and Tichborne were regicides, and Tichborne died a prisoner in the Tower after the Restoration. They were followed in the office by Colonel Thomas Fitch and Colonel Herbert Morley (appointed 7 January 1660).\n\nAfter the Restoration of Charles II, Morley was replaced by Sir John Robinson, who was appointed Lieutenant in June 1660 and continued in the office until May 1679, when the King dismissed him as a result of pressure from the Commons.\n\nAmong those appointed in subsequent reigns were Thomas Cheke, esquire, Sir Edward Hales (who was appointed 13 June 1687, and was himself a prisoner in the Tower with his brother, Charles, in January 1689) and Sir Bevil Skelton during the reign of James II; John Farewell, during the reign of William I; Charles Churchill (appointed in 1702, resigned in 1706), and Lieutenant-General William Cadogan, (1709–1712), during the reign of Queen Anne, and Lieutenant-General Sir Hatton Compton, Lieutenant-General Vernon, and General Loftus.\n\n"}
{"id": "2891117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2891117", "title": "List of information graphics software", "text": "List of information graphics software\n\nThis is a list of software to create any kind of information graphics:\n\nVector graphics software can be used for manual graphing or for editing the output of another program. Please see:\nA few online editors using vector graphics for specific needs have been created. This kind of creative interfaces work well together with data visualization tools like the ones above.\n\n"}
{"id": "53075183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53075183", "title": "Louvre machete attack", "text": "Louvre machete attack\n\nOn 3 February 2017, an Egyptian national in France on a tourist visa was shot as he rushed a group of French soldiers guarding a principal entrance to the Louvre Museum in Paris, France, attacking and injuring one soldier with a machete. The soldiers were patrolling the museum as part of Opération Sentinelle, guarding the Carrousel du Louvre, in which an underground shopping mall also serves as a gift shop, ticket sales office, and public entrance to the Museum.\n\nThe attacker, identified as Abdullah al-Hamahmy, was confirmed by French authorities to have shouted \"Allahu Akbar\" during the attack, and although not having direct links, to have sympathised with and posted numerous messages on Twitter in support of the Islamic State, including calling for people to \"fight in the cause of Allah and kill.\"\n\nThe suspect, who was carrying two bags containing spray paint and two machetes, is alleged to have attacked and injured a soldier with a machete who was guarding the museum, shouting \"Allahu Akbar\". Another soldier on security patrol fired five shots at him, injuring him in the stomach. He was arrested and taken for medical treatment.\n\nImmediately after his arrest, the suspect told authorities that he was carrying spray paint in order to deface the museum's artwork, an act that he regarded as a \"symbolic\" attack on France.\n\nFrench authorities say that no group has claimed the attempted attack and no link to extremism was found during a search of the apartment. The suspect posted on his Twitter account in Arabic in the minutes before the failed attack in which he referred once to ISIL and also wrote, \"In the name of Allah... for our brothers in Syria and fighters across the world\".\n\nThe Egyptian Interior Ministry has identified the attacker as 29-year old Egyptian national Abdullah Reda al-Hamamy, an identity confirmed by the suspect, who had entered France on a one-month tourist visa issued in Dubai on 26 January. The French Public Minister, François Molins, confirmed the perpetrator was identified after a Visabio search. The suspect refused to speak in the first interview with investigators after being placed in detention at a hospital, but confirmed his identity in a subsequent interview. The suspect's father denied allegations of his son being a terrorist. However, investigators examining his social media accounts state that he has \"sympathy for the ideas of ISIS\".\n\nParis Match called the suspect \"the tourist terrorist,\" and described an upwardly mobile professional, from a wealthy family, graduate of a prestigious university, with a seven-month-old son and a pregnant wife, staying in Paris for ten days at a prestigious address near the Champs-Elysées, sending home artsy selfies with Paris landmarks from his iPhone 7. Nonetheless, the magazine disclosed that the suspect was carrying \"bombs of aerosol paint\" intended to \"disfigure the masterpieces of the [Louvre] museum\".\n\nFrench President François Hollande \"said there was 'no doubt' the attack was terrorist in nature\". The attack heightened anxieties in a city already reeling from a spate of recent attacks, including the November 2015 Paris attacks. The city continues to increase security against terrorist attacks at major tourist attractions.\n\nThe attack exacerbated fears of further decline in tourism because approximately 70% of visitors to the Louvre are foreign nationals and attendance fell by 16% in 2001, due to the September 11 attacks in the US; were off 7.5% in 2015 after the November 2015 Paris attacks and fell a further 15% in 2016, in the wake of the Bastille Day attack. The attack was being investigated as a possible act of terrorism.\n"}
{"id": "7826927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7826927", "title": "Meta-ethnicity", "text": "Meta-ethnicity\n\nMeta-ethnicity is a relatively recent term (or neologism) occasionally used in academic literature or public discourse on ethnic studies. It describes a level of commonality that is wider (\"meta-\") and more general (i.e., might differ on specifics) than ethnicity, but does not necessarily correspond to (and may actually transcend) nation or nationality. In colloquial discourse, it usually signifies a larger group of related ethnic groups who identify with each other.\n\nAn early use—possibly the first published in English—was an article in a 1984 USSR Academy of Sciences publication discussing identity in Asia and Africa.\n\nSome other examples:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14333228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14333228", "title": "National Environmental Information Exchange Network", "text": "National Environmental Information Exchange Network\n\nThe National Environmental Information Exchange Network is a partnership among States, Territories, Tribes, and the United States Environmental Protection Agency that is revolutionizing the exchange of environmental information. Partners on the Exchange Network share data efficiently and securely over the Internet. This new approach is providing real-time access to higher quality data while saving time, resources, and money for partner states, tribes, and territories.\n\nThe Exchange Network is a secure Internet- and standards-based approach for exchanging environmental data and improving environmental decisions. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, States, Territories, and Tribes have built the Exchange Network to increase access to environmental data and make the exchange of data more efficient.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47375308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47375308", "title": "Oranienstein Letters", "text": "Oranienstein Letters\n\nThe Oranienstein Letters are a series of letters sent by William V, Prince of Orange in December 1801 from Schloss Oranienstein near Diez, Germany. William addressed them to 15 Orangist ex-regenten of the old Dutch Republic, whom he advised to no longer stay out of government. This meant that some of his instructions given in the Kew Letters, that urged resistance against the French–Batavian invasion, were no longer in effect. He and his son, William Frederick, also recognised the Batavian Republic as legitimate, and renounced their hereditary stadtholderate. These were preconditions set by First Consul Napoleon of the French Republic for compensation for the loss of their possessions in the Netherlands, that had been confiscated by the Batavian Republic.\n\nWilliam V only decreed these letters after much hesitations, and he would later refuse to accept the mediatised Fulda monastery and the Imperial Abbey of Corvey as compensation, but he agreed that William Frederick did, and thus became Prince of Nassau-Orange-Fulda.\n\n"}
{"id": "1683451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1683451", "title": "Paul Orndorff", "text": "Paul Orndorff\n\nPaul Parlette Orndorff Jr. (born October 29, 1949) is an American former professional wrestler, best known for his appearances with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) and World Championship Wrestling (WCW) as \"Mr. Wonderful\" Paul Orndorff. Orndorff became a star in the 1980s WWF wrestling boom. Orndorff's feud with Hulk Hogan in 1985–1986 is a highlight of his career. Orndorff departed the WWF for WCW in early 1988. After retiring, Orndorff worked as a professional wrestling trainer. In 2011, Orndorff was diagnosed with cancer, but went through treatment and was declared cancer free by the end of 2011.\n\nOrndorff started wrestling in 1976 after playing for one year in the World Football League and initially worked for a number of wrestling promotions in the southern states of the United States such as Mid-Southern Wrestling, Southeast Championship Wrestling, Mid-South Wrestling and Georgia Championship Wrestling. In 1983, he made his debut for the WWF, portraying a narcissistic bad guy and was part of the main event of the first ever WrestleMania show. He would later team up with WWF's top name, Hulk Hogan, leading to a storyline where Orndorff turned on Hogan and the two had a high-profile feud. Orndorff suffered an arm injury during the time and retired for a number of years before returning in 1990, working primarily for WCW. In WCW he won several titles including the WCW World Television Championship as well as the WCW World Tag Team Championship with Paul Roma (as a team called Pretty Wonderful). His recurring arm issues due to the 1988 injury led Orndorff to retire in 2000. He was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2005 and the National Wrestling Alliance Hall of Fame in 2009.\n\nAfter earning notoriety as a running back at the University of Tampa where he scored 21 career touchdowns and gained over 2,000 all-purpose yards in his playing career, Orndorff was a 12th round selection (289th overall pick) in the 1973 NFL Draft by the New Orleans Saints but failed to pass the physical for the NFL with both the Saints and the Kansas City Chiefs. However, he did play for the Jacksonville Sharks of the World Football League in 1975. After one season in the WFL, he began training as a professional wrestler.\n\nPaul Orndorff started wrestling in 1976 in Mid-Southern Wrestling where he feuded with a young Jerry Lawler. Orndorff won his first wrestling title when he pinned Lawler for the Mid-Southern Heavyweight Title on June 7, 1977. Orndorff lost the title back to Lawler before he left the Memphis territory. Orndorff began working for the NWA Tri-State promotion where he got involved in a feud with Ernie Ladd. The feud with Ladd saw Orndorff win the NWA Tri-State North American Heavyweight Title from Ernie Ladd on two occasions (on May 29, 1978 and again in June). Both times, Orndorff's reigns were short and were ended by Ladd.\n\nAfter feuding with Ladd, Orndorff continued to make a name for himself in the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) where he feuded with The Masked Superstar. During this time he became known as \"The Brandon Bull\", a nickname he had during his days as a football player. In December 1978, Paul Orndorff teamed with Jimmy Snuka to capture the NWA World Tag Team titles from Baron von Raschke and Greg Valentine. The duo held on to the titles for five months before losing them to Baron von Raschke and his new partner Paul Jones on April 28, 1978.\n\nIn 1979, Orndorff traveled to the Alabama territory's \"Southeast Championship Wrestling.\" There, Orndorff worked mainly as a tag team competitor teaming with Dick Slater to win the NWA Southeast Tag Team Championship from the team of Jimmy Golden and Norvell Austin in October 1979. Their reign only lasted about a month before being upended by the combination of Dennis Condrey and David Schultz. Orndorff then teamed with former opponent Norvell Austin (who was calling himself \"The Junkyard Dog\" at the time, not to be mistaken for the more famous Junkyard Dog) to win the titles in late 1979. The duo beat Dennis Condrey and Randy Rose, the same team that ended Orndorff and Austin's run with the gold. Norvell Austin, Dennis Condrey, and Randy Rose would go on to form The Midnight Express shortly thereafter.\n\nDuring 1980, Orndorff started to split his time between the Alabama and the Mid-South territories, until he left the Alabama territory by the end of 1980 to focus entirely on the Mid-South territory. In Mid-South, Orndorff feuded with Ken Mantell over Mantell's propensity for cutting people's hair after a match. Orndorff got the better of Mantell and won the rights to use the Freebird hair removal cream on Mantell. Orndorff earned a shot at the North American champion The Grappler but on the day of the match he overslept (storyline) and was incensed when his replacement Jake \"The Snake\" Roberts beat the Grappler for the title. Orndorff's reaction to Jake's title win signaled a change in attitude; he turned heel as he demanded a title match against Jake \"the Snake\". While he lost the support of the fans, he won the North American title on July 4, 1981. Orndorff feuded with Ted DiBiase, JYD, Dusty Rhodes, and Dick Murdoch while holding on to the North American title. Orndorff lost the title to Ted DiBiase on November 1, 1981 in a match at the Municipal Auditorium in New Orleans, Louisiana. Orndorff was unable to wrestle in the rematch due to car trouble, which meant that Orndorff's friend Bob Roop got the title shot and won the match. It was soon revealed that Roop had sabotaged Orndorff's car so he could get the title shot instead (storyline). Orndorff turned face to feud with Roop but found himself unable to regain the title after which he left the Mid-South Territory.\n\nOrndorff reappeared in Georgia Championship Wrestling in early 1982 immediately launching into a feud with Buzz Sawyer over the NWA National Heavyweight Championship. Orndorff won the gold on June 20, 1982. During the summer, Orndorff would vacate the title so he could focus on pursuing the NWA World Champion \"Nature Boy\" Ric Flair. Orndorff was unsuccessful in his challenge and soon focused on the title he gave up. When Orndorff vacated the title, it was put on the line in a tournament that was won by The Super Destroyer. On August 19, 1982, Paul Orndorff regained the title from the Super Destroyer. Orndorff next feuded with The Masked Superstar, with whom he traded the National Heavyweight title back and forth during the fall of 1982. Orndorff then traded the title back and forth with Super Destroyer. Frustrated with his inability to beat Paul Orndorff for the National title, Larry Zbyszko paid Killer Tim Brooks $25,000 to do his dirty work. Brooks beat Orndorff with the help of a chair and won the title only to turn around and give it to Zbyszko. The fact that Zybszko bought the title and did not win it forced NWA President Bob Geigel to step in and strip Zbyszko of the title.\n\nOrndorff then moved to New Japan Pro Wrestling for several months. He made two tours of Japan, the first in April. He wrestled Kengo Kimura, Riki Choshu, and Akira Maeda, as well as teaming up with Ed Leslie against Antonio Inoki and Seiji Sakaguchi. Orndorff returned in October and partnered with Big John Studd against Maeda and Sakaguchi, then faced Maeda again in singles competition.\n\nOrndorff signed with the World Wrestling Federation in late 1983 and made his debut in November of that year on Championship Wrestling. Starting in January 1984, Orndorff took on \"Rowdy\" Roddy Piper as his manager. Piper nicknamed Paul Orndorff \"Mr. Wonderful\", a nickname that he has used ever since. Orndorff made his WWF debut against Salvatore Bellomo on the night that Hulk Hogan defeated The Iron Sheik for the WWF World Heavyweight Title and \"Hulkamania was born\", January 23, 1984 in Madison Square Garden. Orndorff became one of the first people to challenge for the world title, shooting straight to the main event less than a month after his debut. Hogan disposed of the challenger and moved on while Orndorff fought a variety of opponents including the Intercontinental Champion Tito Santana. When Piper assaulted Jimmy Snuka on the set of \"Piper's Pit\", Orndorff assisted the Rowdy One in his matches. Orndorff and Piper often faced Snuka and \"The Tonga Kid\" in tag team competition.\n\nNear the end of 1984, Roddy Piper's assault on Cyndi Lauper (kayfabe) brought Orndorff and Piper on a collision course with Hulk Hogan and Mr. T. Hogan's feud with Piper also meant that Orndorff was thrust back into the main event picture; he defeated Tony Atlas at \"The War to Settle the Score\" and then played a part in the main event. The fallout from \"The War to Settle the Score\" led to the creation of WrestleMania, with Hogan and Mr. T (backed by Jimmy Snuka) taking on \"Rowdy\" Roddy Piper and Paul Orndorff in the main event (with Bob Orton, Jr, as Piper and Orndorff's manager) Orton's interference at the end of the match backfired when he accidentally hit Orndorff with the cast on his arm, allowing Hogan to pin Orndorff and win the match for his team. Blaming Orndorff for the loss, Piper and Orton attacked him on the first episode of \"Saturday Night's Main Event\". Later in the evening, Orndorff ran to the ring to even the sides when Piper and Orton were preparing to double team Hulk Hogan. He solidified his babyface status by publicly firing manager Bobby Heenan shortly afterwards.\n\nOrndorff and Hogan started teaming up to feud with Piper and Orton, facing them in tag team competition all over the country. Orndorff's feud with Piper and Orton continued to rage on while Hogan started to defend his title against other contenders; Orndorff faced both Orton and Piper in individual competition, usually without a conclusive outcome. After Orndorff fired Bobby Heenan as his manager, Heenan placed a $25,000 bounty on Orndorff, payable to anyone who could injure him. When no one succeeded, Heenan upped the bounty to $50,000. One of the first men to try and claim the new, higher bonus was Roddy Piper himself, but their matches got so out of hand that Bruno Sammartino was appointed as a special referee in the hopes of keeping peace. Instead of keeping peace, Sammartino became a target for Orton and Piper, which led to Orndorff and Sammartino teaming up. Orndorff teamed with a variety of opponents in his fights with Piper and Orton, including André the Giant. In February 1986, Bobby Heenan used a match between Hulk Hogan and Don Muraco as an opportunity to have King Kong Bundy attack Hogan, setting up their WrestleMania 2 match. While Hogan fought off Bundy, Orndorff battled Don Muraco in a match that ended in a double count out.\n\nOrndorff's frustrations were further fueled by Adrian Adonis, who took every opportunity that he could to mock Orndorff (including referring to him as \"Hulk Jr.\"), saying that he had gone soft from teaming with Hogan. Adonis kept on irritating Orndorff, going so far as daring Paul Orndorff to prove just how close his relationship with Hulk Hogan really was. During a televised phone call to Hulk Hogan, Orndorff was told that Hogan was too busy training to come to the phone, something which aggravated Orndorff to no end. The next time that Hogan and Orndorff teamed up, against The Moondogs, Orndorff wrestled most of the match by himself in an attempt to upstage Hogan, scoring the winning pin. The next week, during a tag match where Hogan and Orndorff faced the massive duo of Big John Studd and King Kong Bundy, Hogan and Orndorff accidentally collided and Hogan knocked Orndorff off the apron. When Studd and Bundy started to double team Hogan, Orndorff did not help out; he looked like he had hurt his eye in the collision. It was not until Studd and Bundy had Hogan in a compromised position that Orndorff reentered the ring to fend off Studd and Bundy. Orndorff then helped Hogan to his feet and raised his hand in the air, only to give Hogan a clothesline followed by a piledriver.\n\nOrndorff soon reunited with manager Bobby Heenan and again feuded with Hulk Hogan, and began using Hogan's theme music, \"Real American\", as his own entrance theme. Their matches included a memorable outdoor match in Toronto which drew an estimated 76,000 fans. After a series of matches with no clean outcome it was decided that Hogan and Orndorff would clash in a steel cage match on \"Saturday Night's Main Event\". The cage match saw both Orndorff and Hogan climb over the top of the cage and touch the floor at the same time. After reviewing the footage it was decided that it was a draw and the match was restarted. Once the match restarted, Hogan easily exited the cage to win the match following a leg drop, ending their feud. Their half-year-long feud is one of the most notable (and profitable) feuds in the history of pro wrestling.\n\nDuring the Hogan feud, Orndorff seriously injured his right arm in a weightlifting accident. Because he was in the middle of his big money run with Hogan, he did not want to take the time off to have the surgery to properly treat it, opting instead to continue to wrestle. After the program with Hogan ended, Orndorff worked a reduced schedule for a few months before he was forced to take some time off because of the injury. While Orndorff was away from the WWF, Bobby Heenan brought in a new man \"Ravishing\" Rick Rude to take Orndorff's place in the Heenan Family. Orndorff returned to the ring on June 2, 1987 in Buffalo, New York during a WWF Superstars taping. Orndorff (along with King Kong Bundy, who had been off TV since WrestleMania III as well) returned to team with Hercules and King Harley Race in a victory against Mario Mancini, Don Driggers, Paul Roma, and Jim Powers. Orndorff received a babyface response from the crowd during his return, leading the WWF to change his character. He would fire Bobby Heenan two months later and begin a feud with Rick Rude. Orndorff took Oliver Humperdink as his manager in his fight with Rude and Heenan. Orndorff's last \"big\" appearance was at the inaugural Survivor Series on November 26, 1987, where he teamed with Hulk Hogan, Bam Bam Bigelow, Ken Patera, and Don Muraco to take on André the Giant, the One Man Gang, King Kong Bundy, Rick Rude, and Butch Reed. Early in the match, Rude eliminated Orndorff with a roll-up. His final match came on a house show on January 4, 1988 against Rick Rude in Augusta, Georgia.\n\nPaul Orndorff retired in early 1988 due to his arm injury and focused on running his bowling alley in Fayetteville. During his time away from wrestling he was actually reported to have died; the story made several newspapers. The time off was because of the injury to his arm/neck that he suffered during the Hogan feud and left untreated for too long. With the time off, Orndorff recovered and started working out, reestablishing the physique that earned him the nickname \"Mr. Wonderful\" in the first place. The only difference was that his right arm was noticeably smaller and weakened due to a neck injury that caused nerve damage and eventually the atrophy of his right biceps.\n\nIn 1990 Orndorff returned to the squared circle, wrestling a series of matches against Kerry Von Erich on the independent circuit.\n\nOn the May 26 episode of \"World Championship Wrestling\" it was announced that Paul Orndorff would be facing Arn Anderson at . Orndorff made his in-ring debut on June 9 in Beckley, West Virginia, defeating \"Nasty\" Ned Brady on \"Main Event\". Orndorff quickly became affiliated with a group called the \"Dudes with Attitudes\" consisting of himself, Sting, Lex Luger, Junkyard Dog, and The Steiner Brothers. The Dudes backed Sting in his fight with the Four Horsemen. At Clash of the Champions XI Orndorff defeated Anderson and at the 1990 Great American Bash, Orndorff teamed up with the Junkyard Dog and El Gigante to defeat Arn Anderson, Barry Windham, and Sid Vicious by disqualification. Throughout the summer Orndorff would face Anderson and defeat the WCW TV Champion by pinfall in several non-title matchups. He also defeated \"Mean\" Mark Callous in multiple house show encounters. His final WCW match came on August 26 in Chicago when he teamed with The Junkyard Dog in a losing effort against the tag-team champions Doom. Orndorff departed from the promotion that fall.\n\nBy late 1990, Orndorff became one of the featured headliners for Herb Abrams' fledgling Universal Wrestling Federation. Televised on several cable outlets, the UWF saw many former WWF stars such as Don Muraco, Bob Orton, Jr., \"Superfly\" Jimmy Snuka, Lou Albano, and The Killer Bees (known as \"Masked Confusion\" in the UWF). Mr. Wonderful more or less immediately started feuding with \"Dr. Death\" Steve Williams, who attacked Orndorff to kick start the feud. Orndorff and Williams clashed several times in what was promoted as the \"Signature Feud\" of the UWF in its early days. Orndorff would also reignite his feud with Bob Orton, Jr. in the UWF, where he beat Orton for the UWF Southern States Championship on June 22, 1992 and held the title until he left the promotion, it was awarded back to Orton when Orndorff left the promotion. On June 9, 1991, Orndorff competed on the UWF's only PPV Beach Brawl, defeating Colonel DeBeers in a Strap match. Orndorff left the UWF sometime in early 1993, vacating the Southern States title.\n\nWhile working for the UWF, Orndorff would also compete in the American Wrestling Federation (not the same promotion as the AWF) and held the AWF Heavyweight title after beating Stan Lane on December 16, 1991. When Orndorff left the AWF in February 1992, he vacated the title. During this time Orndorff also competed in the National Wrestling League, holding its tag team titles alongside Brian Blair sometime in 1993.\n\nIn 1992, Smoky Mountain Wrestling opened its doors for the first time as they announced a tournament to crown the first SMW Heavyweight Champion. Among the participants invited to compete were Buddy Landel, \"Dirty White Boy\" Tony Anthony, and Brian Lee. Orndorff was only listed as a \"wild card\" who had to win a match in order to enter the tournament. The \"wild card\" status was a blow to Orndoff's ego (storyline), causing him to attack several wrestlers including Hector Guerrero, whom he defeated in a \"wild card\" match to earn a spot in the tournament. Afterwards, Orndorff laid out Guerrero and several preliminary wrestlers with his piledriver finisher. Orndoff beat Tim Horner and Robert Gibson in the preliminary rounds to advance to the finals of the tournament. In the finals, Brian Lee won the title when Orndorff was disqualified.\n\nSiding with the \"Dirty White Boy\" Tony Anthony, Orndorff feuded with Hector Guerrero and Brian Lee. Lee brought in Ron Garvin to fight off Orndorff; the feud included a very publicized \"piledriver\" match which was won by Garvin. Orndorff was \"fired\" from the SMW after piledriving a referee in frustration.\n\nOrndorff returned to WCW in late 1992. In January 1993 he took on Cactus Jack, with the winner being manager Harley Race's chosen replacement for an injured Rick Rude at the \"Clash of the Champions\". Race assisted Orndorff in the match and was quickly joined by Vader in his attack on Cactus Jack. After the match, Race declared that Paul Orndorff was his chosen man. Orndorff was pinned by Cactus Jack in a subsequent Thunderdome match; the two had an intense feud including a Falls Count Anywhere match at SuperBrawl III, which Cactus Jack won.\n\nAfter the feud with Cactus cooled off, \"Mr. Wonderful\" set his sights on the vacant WCW World Television Championship. Orndorff signed up for a 16-man tournament beating 2 Cold Scorpio, Cactus Jack, Johnny B. Badd, and then Erik Watts in the finals to win his first title in WCW. Orndorff, the TV champion, and Rick Rude, the U.S. Champion, began teaming on a regular basis, including a PPV victory over Dustin Rhodes and Kensuke Sasaki at Slamboree. During this time Orndorff also turned back the challenges of Ron Simmons and Marcus Alexander Bagwell, amongst others, holding on to his Television title by any means necessary. Orndorff defeated Bagwell controversially, using the second rope for leverage during the pinfall. The two would later go on to feud for the WCW World Tag Team Titles. Orndorff's World TV Title reign also included a successful defence against future ECW champion Shane Douglas and a disqualification loss to Johnny B Badd, after Maxx Payne violently interfered. This led to a brief six man tag team alliance between Orndorff, Payne, and Chris Benoit. On August 18, 1993, Orndorff's luck ran out as Ricky Steamboat won the title at \"Clash of the Champions XXIV\". After unsuccessfully challenging Ricky Steamboat throughout the fall and winter of 1993, Orndorff moved into the tag team division.\n\nAfter the 1993 WCW pay-per-view Battlebowl, Horsemen members Paul Roma and Arn Anderson faced the semi-regular team of Paul Orndorff and \"Stunning\" Steve Austin on \"WCW Saturday Night\". During the match, Roma acted very indifferent to his tag team partner, sowing the seeds to his heel turn. Next, Roma teamed with Erik Watts to take on the team of Orndorff and Lord Steven Regal. This time, Roma took it a step further and attacked Erik Watts before announcing that he was now teaming with Paul Orndorff.\n\nUnder the tutelage of manager Masked Assassin, the team quickly began to work well together in a feud with Marcus Alexander Bagwell and 2 Cold Scorpio. In the following months, both Roma and Orndorff focused on their individual careers before reuniting around May. This time they wrestled without their manager and were officially known as \"Pretty Wonderful\". With both men rededicated to teaming, they soon challenged for the WCW World Tag Team Championship then held by Cactus Jack and Kevin Sullivan. One incident especially stands out that established Pretty Wonderful in the title chase. The champions had one last defense against former champions the Nasty Boys that also saw Kevin's injured brother Dave. The match degraded into a brawl that saw Pretty Wonderful make an appearance using Dave's crutch to attack the champions. Before the team left the ring, they also took a couple of shots at the Nasty Boys for good measure.\n\nGoing into Bash at the Beach, Pretty Wonderful had the advantage as both champions were suffering from injuries inflicted by the challengers on previous occasions (kayfabe). Cactus Jack and Kevin Sullivan were unable to hold off Roma and Orndorff, as Pretty Wonderful left the ring with the gold. Pretty Wonderful was immediately challenged by the Nasty Boys after winning the title, but the Nasty Boys were never able to take the gold from the champions. Next, Pretty Wonderful was challenged by the duo of Stars and Stripes (Marcus Alexander Bagwell and The Patriot) at Fall Brawl. The champions retained, but a week later the championship changed hands when Stars and Stripes got the victory. Pretty Wonderful was granted a rematch against the new champions with a match booked for Halloween Havoc; Pretty Wonderful regained the titles when Roma used one of the title belts to knock Bagwell out cold.\n\nDuring a February 5, 1995 taping of WCW Worldwide, Orndorff crossed paths with Hogan for the first time since 1987. The duo of Hulk Hogan and Randy Savage faced Pretty Wonderful in a televised match which the latter lost. This would be the only time that Orndorff and Hogan would be matched against each other during the latter's WCW run.\n\nAt Clash of the Champions XXIX Stars and Stripes were granted a final shot at the tag team title, but the challengers also had to put up the Patriot's mask on the line. After a controversial double pin finish, Stars and Stripes were declared the winners and thus the champions, putting the end to Pretty Wonderful's second and final run with the gold.\n\nOrndorff returned to singles competition with his most notable match at the time being an unsuccessful shot at the IWGP Heavyweight Championship when he faced champion the Great Muta at Slamboree. In May, Orndorff got a golden opportunity to regain the WCW Television title. He defeated Brian Pillman in a tournament to earn the shot at the champion. He lost to WCW newcomer The Renegade at Bash at the Beach. Orndorff was also unable to beat the rookie in subsequent matches and began to lose confidence in his abilities (storyline). After losing more and more matches, including a match on \"WorldWide\" to Randy Savage, Orndorff lost all faith in his abilities; the outwardly arrogant Mr. Wonderful was riddled with self-doubt, until one night, after beating himself up backstage after yet another loss, he was visited by psychic Gary Spivey. Spivey convinced Orndorff to believe in himself and that he shouldn’t forget that he was \"Mr. Wonderful\". Orndorff became more arrogant than ever before and began carrying around a mirror everywhere he went.\n\nOn the December 11, 1995 episode of \"Monday Nitro\", Orndorff confronted Brian Pillman after Pillman made derogatory comments about Orndorff. After telling Flair and Anderson how much he respected them, Orndorff told Pillman that he could have been a Horseman and the only reason Pillman was a Horseman was because he turned it down. Anderson and Flair tried to calm Orndorff down but Orndorff lost his temper and attacked Pillman. Pillman, Flair, and Anderson attacked Orndorff and then Arn Anderson and Ric Flair delivered a spike piledriver to Orndorff on the arena floor during the attack. WCW later explained that Orndorff had been seriously hurt in the attack and that his career was over. In actuality, Orndorff was forced to retire due to his previous injuries in the WWF, with the entire right side of his body beginning to atrophy (eventually causing his arm and leg muscles to shrink). It was something he had worked through as best he could but by the end of 1995 he was forced to retire and started to work as a trainer and a road agent for WCW. At the 2000 Fall Brawl, in a match between The Filthy Animals and The Natural Born Thrillers, Orndorff suffered a neck injury after delivering a piledriver. The referee, Charles Robinson stopped the match as a result.\n\nAfter Orndorff retired he began to run the WCW Power Plant, where he trained several wrestlers including The Natural Born Thrillers. He had a brief onscreen role during this time in the Old Age Outlaws with Terry Funk, Arn Anderson, and Larry Zbyszko to feud with the last WCW version of the nWo.\n\nOn February 3, 2005, Orndorff was announced as one of the inductees for the Class of 2005 into the WWE Hall of Fame. He was inducted on April 2 at the Universal Amphitheatre in Los Angeles by Bobby Heenan. In 2009, Orndorff was elected by a committee of his peers to the Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame, then located in Amsterdam New York, now located in Wichita Falls, Texas.\n\nOn April 6, 2014, Orndorff made an appearance at WrestleMania XXX. Marking the first time being on WWE television since the 2005 Hall of Fame. He appeared with Rowdy Roddy Piper, Hulk Hogan, Mr. T, Pat Patterson who was part of the main event at the first WrestleMania and Gene Okerlund who was conducting an interview with Hogan when the rest appeared.\n\nOn August 11, 2014, Orndorff made an appearance at Hulk Hogan's birthday celebration on \"WWE Raw\", celebrating in the ring with many other WWE legends, including Hogan himself, Ric Flair, Kevin Nash, Scott Hall, Gene Okerlund, Jimmy Hart, and Roddy Piper.\n\nOn May 3, 2017, Orndorff fought in his first match since 2000. The event was a CWE (Canadian Wrestling's Elite) held in Brandon, Manitoba, Canada. Where he won in a 6-man tag team match at age 67.\n\nPaul's parents are both of German descent. Orndorff currently resides in Fayetteville, Georgia. He married his high school girlfriend Ronda Maxwell Orndorff. The couple have two grown sons, Paul Orndorff III and Travis Orndorff, as well as eight grandchildren. Paul has a younger brother Ray, who competed on the independent circuit. He also has another brother named Terry, with whom he wrestled briefly as a tag team in the early 1980s. Terry went on to have limited success as a tag team wrestler with other partners such as The Junkyard Dog and Kerry Von Erich. Paul has a sister Patricia and a niece Brandy Orndorff. Brandy has a husband named Richard Cusumano, whom she has 5 children with. He has a nephew Terry Orndorff Jr.\n\nOn January 5, 2011, Paul Orndorff appeared on the \"Busted Open\" radio show on Sirius Satellite Radio and revealed that he had recently been diagnosed with cancer. On August 10, 2011, Orndorff announced that he was now cancer free.\n\nIn July 2016, Orndorff was named part of a class action lawsuit filed against WWE which alleged that wrestlers incurred \"long term neurological injuries\" and that the company \"routinely failed to care\" for them and \"fraudulently misrepresented and concealed\" the nature and extent of those injuries. The suit is litigated by attorney Konstantine Kyros, who has been involved in a number of other lawsuits against WWE. In September 2018, US District Judge Vanessa Lynne Bryant dismissed the case, ruling that some of the suit's claims were frivolous and some had been filed after the statute of limitations had expired.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52066646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52066646", "title": "Public recursive name server", "text": "Public recursive name server\n\nA public recursive name server (also called public DNS resolver) is a name server service that networked computers may use for query to DNS, the decentralized Internet naming system, in place of or in addition to name servers operated by the Internet service provider to which the devices are connected. Reasons for using these services include:\n\n\nPublic DNS resolver operators often cite increased privacy as an advantage of their services; critics of public DNS services have cited the possibility of mass data collection targeted at the public resolvers as a potential risk of using these services. Several services now support secure DNS lookup transport services such as DNS over HTTPS and DNS over TLS.\n\nPublic DNS resolvers are operated either by commercial companies, offering their service for free use to the public, or by private enthusiasts to help spread new technologies and support non-profit communities.\n"}
{"id": "39628910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39628910", "title": "S v Vermaas", "text": "S v Vermaas\n\nIn S v Vermaas; S v Du Plessis (1995), the accused were charged with multiple counts of fraud. The main contention in this case was regarding the adjudication and referral of constitutional matters by the Transvaal Provincial Division, but the court also very briefly discussed the right to legal representation.\n\nThe court held that, where a legal representative is appointed for an accused at the expense of the State in terms of section 25(3)(e) of the Constitution, no right in the accused to pick the lawyer appointed for him can be derived from that subsection.\n"}
{"id": "32602140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32602140", "title": "Satchwell v President of the Republic of South Africa", "text": "Satchwell v President of the Republic of South Africa\n\nSatchwell v President of the Republic of South Africa and Another is a 2002 decision of the Constitutional Court of South Africa which determined that the same-sex life partner of a judge was entitled to the same financial benefits available to the opposite-sex spouse of a judge. The case, which challenged the Judges' Remuneration and Conditions of Employment Act, 1989, was brought by Kathy Satchwell, an openly lesbian judge of the Transvaal Provincial Division (now known as the Gauteng Division) of the High Court.\n\nThe court ruled unanimously that the law violated the equality clause of the Bill of Rights, which forbids unfair discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. The judgment therefore amended the law to extend the spousal benefits to same-sex partners who had undertaken \"reciprocal duties of support\". Although the holding, strictly speaking, was limited to judges and their partners, it was seen as having a wider effect, with the director of the Lesbian and Gay Equality Project describing it as \"yet another step toward the formal legal recognition of same-sex relationships\".\n\nIn 2003 it was realised that a new version of the act (the Judges' Remuneration and Conditions of Employment Act, 2001) had been passed and, due to a drafting error, still included the former discriminatory language. The Constitutional Court granted an order applying the reasoning of its earlier ruling to the new act.\n\n"}
{"id": "22928333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22928333", "title": "State Counsel (Sri Lanka)", "text": "State Counsel (Sri Lanka)\n\nA State Counsel is the public prosecutor in the legal system of Sri Lanka.\n\nState Counsels represent the state in criminal proceedings. They are not elected, instead are public servants as Law Officers of the Attorney General's Department. To become a State Counsel, one must be a qualified Attorney at law. Senior State Counsel are members with several years of experience in public prosecution. The Attorney General and his/her deputy the Solicitor General are former State Counsels.\n\nPrior to 1972 the post was known as Crown Counsel and was changed when Ceylon became a republic. \n\nThere are similarities between the role of the State Counsel and the Procurator Fiscal in Scotland, Crown Prosecutor in England and Wales, Crown Attorneys in Canada and District Attorneys in the United States. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2203449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2203449", "title": "The Crusher (wrestler)", "text": "The Crusher (wrestler)\n\nReginald Lisowski (July 11, 1926 – October 22, 2005) was an American professional wrestler, better known by his ring name, The Crusher (sometimes Crusher Lisowski to distinguish him from other Crushers, such as Crusher Blackwell). In his obituary, \"The Washington Post\" described him as \"a professional wrestler whose blue-collar bona fides made him beloved among working class fans for 40 years\".\n\nLisowski was born on July 11, 1926 and raised in the Milwaukee suburb of South Milwaukee. Early on he was more interested in football, playing fullback for the South Milwaukee High School football team, but took up wrestling while stationed in Germany with the U.S. Army. Having developed a liking for the sport, he continued training with Ivan Racy and Buck Tassie at Milwaukee's Eagle's Club when he returned, eventually wrestling Marcel Buchet in his first recorded match late in 1949.\n\nHis early career included wrestling three to four nights per week at a Chicago armory, typically earning $5 a night. To support himself and to stay in shape, Lisowski worked various blue collar jobs by day, from meat packing to bricklaying. Fred Kohler was the first promoter to put him on TV, and by 1954 he had developed a barrel-chested physique that would stick with him for most of his career. Decades before Stone Cold Steve Austin and The Sandman, Lisowski perfected the gimmick of the beer drinking tough guy. To further his career he bleached his dark hair blonde and started to get over as a strongman heel, famous for his bolo punch as well as a devastating full nelson. This eventually led to him winning the Chicago-area NWA World Tag Team Championship with partner Art Nielson.\n\nLisowski continued to have tag team success throughout the remainder of the 1950s, often paired with his wrestling \"brother\" Stan Lisowski. By 1959, he was being billed as \"Crusher\" Lisowski, which legend came from a promoter's off-hand comment that he \"just crushes everybody.\" Until early 1965, Crusher was a heel (hated bad guy) in the AWA. After meeting the team of Larry Hennig & Harley Race for the first time, the fans adopted Crusher and his wrestling \"cousin\" Dick the Bruiser as full-fledged heroes in AWA territory. His bluster was legendary, as he would threaten to maul opponents in the ring and afterward \"have a party, take all the dollies down Wisconsin Avenue and go dancing.\" Besides his impressive physique, The Crusher's gimmick was to absorb a tremendous amount of punishment and still be able to make a comeback for the win.\n\nOver the next 15 to 20 years Crusher and Bruiser were tag partners off and on, and a natural combination due to their common background and brawling wrestling style. If Dick the Bruiser and Crusher felt they hadn't bloodied their opponents enough during a match, they would trade punches with each other afterwards. They won the AWA World Tag Team Championship 5 times, the WWA Tag Team Titles (the WWA was Dick \"Bruiser\" Afflis's promotion) 6 times, and the NWA International Tag Titles among others.\n\nIntroduced at the beginning of wrestling matches as \"The Wrestler That Made Milwaukee Famous\", Crusher was successful as a solo wrestler, winning the AWA World Heavyweight Championship three times, the first time unifying it with the Omaha version of the World Heavyweight Championship on July 9, 1963, in a match where he defeated Verne Gagne. He was skillful at cutting promos, as he would brag about his \"100 megaton biceps\" and offer to pummel \"da bum\" he was facing in the ring with ease, and he often delighted in calling opponents \"turkeynecks.\" His most quotable and famous phrase though was: \"How 'bout 'dat?\" When asked how he trained for a match, he'd claim he ran along the waterfront in Milwaukee carrying a large full beer barrel over either shoulder for strength (and longtime AWA announcer Rodger Kent often noted that by the end of the Crusher's training run, the beer was gone), and that he'd dance polka all night with Polish barmaids to increase his stamina. Although much of Crusher's popularity came from the idea that he was a big beer drinker, in actuality, he never drank beer, and according to Baron Von Raschke, he actually preferred wine.\n\nThe Crusher's wrestling career almost ended in 1981, when the 450-pound Jerry Blackwell botched a top rope move and landed on Lisowski's right arm, causing nerve damage from his shoulder all the way to his wrist. Doctors told him he'd never wrestle again, but Crusher did strength training for two years while he was unofficially \"retired,\" returning to the ring in 1983.\n\nHe also had a successful run in the WWWF in the early 1960s where he was a nemesis of Johnny Valentine and a very young Bruno Sammartino, primarily in the Pittsburgh promotion. He drew very large crowds to Forbes Field with battles against each man.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, seeing that the American Wrestling Association (AWA) promotion with which he had the most success over the years was crumbling, particularly when Hulk Hogan and many of the other top talent jumped ship to Vince McMahon's World Wrestling Federation (WWF), Crusher went to work for McMahon on a part-time basis, appearing at WWF house shows all over the Midwest. Lisowski claimed that he made more money working part-time for McMahon than he did working for the frugal Gagne on a full-time basis.\n\nIn 1986, Lisowski occasionally teamed with The Machines as Crusher Machine.\n\nThe Crusher's last match was at a WWF house show in Omaha on February 15, 1988. He replaced Billy Jack Haynes to team with Ken Patera and face Demolition, who were disqualified when Mr. Fuji tripped Crusher with a cane about three minutes in.\n\nThe Crusher's last television appearance was at WWF's 1998 pay-per-view where was shown sitting alongside Mad Dog Vachon in the front row. Jerry Lawler made fun of the two men's age, and tried to steal Vachon's artificial leg, but Vachon hit him over the head with it, and Crusher punched him. As Lawler bailed, the two former enemies shook hands.\n\nIn 1964, the Minneapolis-based garage rock band The Novas wrote a song dedicated to him called \"The Crusher\", with lead singer Bob Nolan imitating the raunchy voice of Crusher Lisowski (and his trademark yell at the beginning of the record). The tune, which included the lyrics \"Do the hammer lock, you turkeynecks!\" was popular in the upper Midwest and made it to #88 on the national \"Billboard\" chart. It was later covered by The Cramps on their album \"Psychedelic Jungle\". The song has received a resurgence of popularity in recent years, as David Letterman has often played it on his late-night talk show. The Ramones released a song entitled \"The Crusher\" paying tribute to Lisowski on their last studio recorded album, \"Adios Amigos\".\n\nIn 1974, he and Dick the Bruiser starred in the movie \"The Wrestler\", where they beat up a posse of mobsters on the big screen.\n\nIn his later years, multiple surgeries on his hips and knee crippled him, as well as a non-cancerous tumor removed from his brain stem in March 2005, which left Lisowski partially paralyzed.\n\nLisowski's wife Faye died in March 2003 after the couple were married for 55 years. Lisowski died of a brain tumor on October 22, 2005, at age 79. He, his wife, Faye, and infant son Gary are interred at the Holy Sepulcher Cemetery near Milwaukee. He was survived by four children, nine grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.\n\nGagne reacted to his death by saying to the \"St. Paul Pioneer Press\", \"We had some dandy matches. The Crusher never was a great technically skilled wrestler, but he was tougher than nails and a brawler. He could bench press nearly 600 pounds. And he loved to have fun. After a match, he couldn't get a beer in his hands fast enough.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1370977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1370977", "title": "Ticho House", "text": "Ticho House\n\nTicho House (, \"Beit Tikho\") is a historical home in Jerusalem, Israel, now functioning as a museum, administered as part of the national Israel Museum, which includes a restaurant and cultural center. It was one of the first homes built outside the Old City walls during the 1860s. \n\nThe house was constructed by a wealthy Arab, Aga Rashid Nashashibi, in 1864. Antiquities dealer Moses Wilhelm Shapira lived in the house with his family between 1873 and 1883. In 1924, Dr. Abraham Albert Ticho, an ophthalmologist, and his wife, Anna Ticho, an artist, bought the house. Dr. Ticho was stabbed and seriously wounded during the 1929 Palestine riots outside his eye clinic near Damascus Gate. After his recovery, Dr. Ticho used the first floor as his new clinic, from where served the population of Jerusalem until his death in 1960. Anna Ticho hosted local and British government officials in her home, as well as many artists, writers, academics and intellectuals. \n\nAnna Ticho bequeathed the house and all its contents, including her husband's Judaica collections and library, to the city of Jerusalem.\n\nTicho House operates the kosher dairy restaurant, Anna Italian Café, operating in part of the first floor and the garden. Live jazz and classical music performances are also held there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1782489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1782489", "title": "United States v. Emerson", "text": "United States v. Emerson\n\nUnited States v. Emerson, 270 F.3d 203 (5th Cir. 2001), \"cert. denied\", , is a decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit holding that the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution guarantees individuals the right to bear arms. The case involved a challenge to the Constitutionality of , a federal statute which prohibited the transportation of firearms or ammunition in interstate commerce by persons subject to a court order that, by its explicit terms, prohibits the use of physical force against an intimate partner or child.\n\nThe Fifth Circuit engaged in an extensive analysis of the text and history of the Second Amendment and its attendant caselaw (including many state supreme court decisions), and it ultimately determined that the Second Amendment \"protects the right of individuals to privately\" keep and bear arms. Nonetheless, the court held that the particular deprivation of the right to bear arms in the case before it did not violate the Constitution, while also acknowledging the federal government's sharp limitations on disarming of individual Americans. The U.S. Supreme Court denied review of the Fifth Circuit's decision.\n\nIn 2002, the Ninth Circuit disagreed with \"Emerson\" in \"Silveira v. Lockyer\". In 2008, the D.C. Circuit held that the Second Amendment protected an individual right, in \"Parker v. District of Columbia\", which was reviewed by the Supreme Court in \"District of Columbia v. Heller\". In the \"District of Columbia v. Heller\" decision the Supreme Court ruled that the Second Amendment \"protects an individual right to keep and bear arms\".\n\nIn \"McDonald v. Chicago\" the U.S. Supreme Court incorporated the Second Amendment against the states, ruling that the right to keep and bear arms is an individual right, mooting the questions that had remained in \"Nordyke v. King\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42814178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42814178", "title": "Vinelink.com", "text": "Vinelink.com\n\nVinelink.com (VINE) is a national website in the United States that allows victims of crime, and the general public, to track the movements of prisoners held by the various states and territories. The first four letters in the websites name, \"vine\", are an acronym for \"Victim Information and Notification Everyday\". Vinelink.com displays information, based on the information provided by the various states' departments of correction and other law enforcement agencies, on whether an inmate is in custody, has been released, has been granted parole or probation, or has escaped from custody. In some cases, the website will reveal whether a defendant has been granted parole or probation, but then subsequently violated conditions of their release and become a fugitive. Information provided on Vinelink.com represents metadata, in that the website lists a defendants custody status; but does not list what the individual is charged with, their criminal history, or the amount of their bail, if applicable.\n\nInternet users accessing the Vinelink.com website choose from a map of states and provinces within the United States where they wish to perform a search for an inmate. The user may then search for an individual using the inmate or parolees name, or by entering the inmates specific department of corrections inmate number, if known. When the inmates custody status changes, users who have registered to be notified of such changes will be notified via email, phone or both. This information is currently released upon request, without the website requesting reasons for the users search or requiring payment, as public records available to the general public.\n\nInmate information is available for most states, and for Puerto Rico, on the website. The states of Arizona, Georgia, Massachusetts, Montana, New Hampshire and West Virginia provide very limited information on the site. The states of Maine and South Dakota do not participate in the VINE system. The website does not provide data on prisoners detained by the United States federal government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20594478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20594478", "title": "Vitae duorum Offarum", "text": "Vitae duorum Offarum\n\nThe Vitae duorum Offarum \"The lives of the two Offas\" is a literary history written in the mid-thirteenth century, apparently by the St Albans monk Matthew Paris.; however, the most recent editor and translator of the work rejects this attribution and argues for an earlier date, in the late twelfth century. The earliest editor, William Wats, argues that the texts are older than Matthew's day but were revised by him; he bases this view on stylistic elements, such as the inclusion in the first \"Vita\" of a quotation from Lucan (\"Pharsalia\" I. 92–3) which also appears repeatedly in Matthew's \"Chronica maiora\".\n\nThe text concerns two kings, King Offa of the Angles, a fourth or fifth-century ancestor figure of the Mercians, and King Offa of Mercia (r. 757-796), through whose lives the text recounts the foundation of St Albans Abbey: Offa of Angel made the vow to found a monastery, while several centuries later, his namesake Offa of Mercia executed this plan on discovering the relics of the British martyr king St Alban and built St Albans Abbey. Although some historical elements are interwoven into the story, Matthew had little reliable information to go on and much of the narrative is therefore fictitious.\n\nOf particular interest is that it features the oldest surviving account of the \"Constance\" tale-type. The king of York tries to marry his daughter; when she refuses, she is abandoned in the woods, where Offa finds her, and he marries her, but later, when he is at war, through a forged letter, she is again abandoned in the woods with her children, and she, Offa, and the children are reunited many years later. This tale was particular popular in chivalric romance such as \"The Man of Law's Tale\" and \"Emaré\" in England. Twenty variants are known, including those in French, Latin, German, and Spanish.\n\nIt has been suggested that it is related to the story of Offa and his queen in \"Beowulf\", but \"Beowulf\" does not contain sufficient information concerning her to identify her with this tale type; Drida is described as coming to him over water because of her father, but that could mean that she was sent by him, not that she fled him.\n\nThe story contains many fairy tales motifs: the heroine forced to flee an incestuous marriage, such as \"The She-Bear\", \"Allerleirauh\", \"Donkeyskin\", and \"The King who Wished to Marry His Daughter\"; a strange woman found by the king, who marries her, but who is then forced into exile with her children owing to substituted letters, such as \"The Girl Without Hands\" and \"The Armless Maiden\"; or a fairy tale featuring both elements, as in \"Penta of the Chopped-off Hands\".\n\nThe text is preserved in two manuscripts: \n\nPreviously, Matthew Paris had written another, brief account of Offa of Mercia in his Latin copy of \"Vie de Saint Auban\" \"The Life of St Alban\" (verse), preserved in Trinity College Dublin, MS 177, which is also embellished with miniatures portraying selected episodes.\n\nSelections may be found in:\n\nPortions of the text, especially those dealing with Quendrida (Cynethryth), are translated in:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5764899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5764899", "title": "Vyborg Castle", "text": "Vyborg Castle\n\nVyborg Castle (, , ) is a Swedish-built medieval fortress around which the town of Vyborg (today in Russia) evolved. The first record of the castle dates back to 1293. Currently it serves as a museum.\n\nVyborg Castle was one of the three major castles of Finland. It was built as the easternmost outpost of the medieval Kingdom of Sweden: it is located on the Karelian Isthmus, on a little islet in the innermost corner of the Gulf of Finland, in a tight strait which connects Suomenvedenpohja to the Bay of Viipuri. It was originally constructed in the 1290s on the site of Karelian fortress after the Third Swedish Crusade to Finland. The town was originally located inside the outer fortifications of the castle, at the fortress island, but it had to be moved to its present location off of the island because of lack of space.\n\nV. A. Tjulanevs excavations in 1980`s indicated that a Karelian fortress pre-dated the castle built by the Swedes in 1293. The oldest layers of occupation have been discovered in the so-called Smith`s Courtyard. A man-made breastwork of sand with timber posts was found from this area. Also charred remains of buildings, which some were linked to the breastwork, were also found. Tjulenev suggests that the Karelian fort had a wooden tower. Tjulanev's several finds from the area include a bent sword which was dated to the period between 1130-1200.\n\nConstruction of the next phase of the fortress started in 1293 by orders of Torkel Knutsson, Lord High Constable of Sweden, who in the 1290s made a supposed crusade against Karelia, the Third Swedish Crusade. The crusade was part of the ongoing Swedish–Novgorodian Wars, against the Russians of the Novgorod Republic. Knutsson chose the location of the new fortress to control the Bay of Vyborg, which was bordered by trading sites long used by the local population. From the bay, a navigable river passage goes inland, ultimately connecting the place with several districts, lakes, and, indirectly by portage, with rivers flowing into Lake Ladoga.\n\nThe three high-medieval Finnish \"castle fiefs\" were ruled until the 1360s from the castles of Turku (formerly in Swedish), Hämeenlinna (), and Vyborg ().\n\nIn 1364, Albert III of Mecklenburg was proclaimed king of Sweden, and in accordance with the German model he began to divide the castle fiefs, which were immense in Finland, into smaller provinces. In some instances, these new, smaller provinces were given separate bailiffs' residences which have since disappeared; this was the case with the Linnavuori castle mound in Porvoo () and the castle of Korsholm in Ostrobothnia, near the modern-day city of Vaasa which was founded later. Only earthworks remain at these sites, but in two places, still-extant though now ruined stone strongholds were built: Raseborg Castle, in western Uusimaa (west of Helsinki), and Kastelholm Castle, in the Åland Islands.\n\nThe castle became the stronghold of the Swedish realm in the Karelian region. Throughout the centuries, it was the first defence of the kingdom against Russians. Its military and strategic status in the late Middle Ages was second only to the fortified capital Stockholm.\n\nThe castle and the large surrounding fief became a virtually autonomous principality. Its governors were usually enfeoffed with the incomes of the county. The fief of Viborg became known as a margraviate. Its governors were generally from the most powerful families of the kingdom. They enjoyed large administrative powers at a significant distance from the capital. These realities made them practically independent rulers. The castle of Savonlinna, Olavinlinna (built in the 1470s), was usually subjugated to Viborg.\n\nProminent men who held Viborg as their fief included Bo Jonsson (Grip), Christer Nilsson Vasa (1417–42), Karl Knutsson Bonde (1442–48, the future king), Eric Axelsson Tott (1457–81), Knut Posse (1495–97), Sten Sture the Elder (1497–99, between his regencies), Eric Bielke, and Count John of Hoya. Particularly in the 1440s and the late 15th century, the fortresses were further enlarged.\n\nThe first mention of firearms in Finland relates to Viborg castle in 1429. During the Middle Ages the Russians repeatedly besieged the castle, most famously in 1495 during the Russo-Swedish War (1495–97) while Knut Posse was governor of the castle. The situation of the defenders looked hopeless, but they were saved by the Viborg blast on 30 November 1495 (St. Andrew's Day), a mysterious explosion which scared the Russians away after they believed they had seen a Saint Andrew's cross in the sky.\n\nIn the 16th century, much was renovated and additions were made. In the 17th century, the castle was allowed to decay, as Russian danger was lessened and the border was further eastwards.\n\nViborg was taken by the Russians in 1710, but passed back to Finnish hands in 1812 when all of Old Finland was attached to the autonomous Grand Duchy of Finland. The castle owes its present appearance to extensive restorations undertaken in the 1890s. The military of the Russian Empire used the castle until 1918 for housing administration.\n\nThe main castle, located in the eastern part of the islet on its highest hill, has an irregular four-cornered layout, with the immense tower of St. Olav (Pyhän Olavin torni in Finnish) as its biggest section. It is 3–4 stories tall, varying in places. Outer defensive works surround the main castle, following the islet's coastlines.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5591107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5591107", "title": "Wenyuan Yinghua", "text": "Wenyuan Yinghua\n\nThe Wenyuan Yinghua (), sometimes translated as \"Finest Blossoms in the Garden of Literature\", is an anthology of poetry, odes, songs and writings from the Liang dynasty to the Five Dynasties era. The book was compiled by a team of officers headed by Li Fang under an imperial order from 982 to 986, during the Song dynasty. It is divided into 1,000 volumes and 38 genus by sections with 19,102 pieces of works written by about 2,200 authors, much of the crucial compilation of the writings came from the Tang dynasty scholars. It is considered one of the \"Four Great Books of Song\".\n\n"}
{"id": "58659252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58659252", "title": "Zinkpo", "text": "Zinkpo\n\nZinkpo, also called the Throne of Dahomey, was a royal throne from Dahomey , present-day Benin.. It was one of the main objects on display in the Nacional Museum of Brazil, in Rio de Janeiro. The object also received the names \"zingpogandeme\" (seat of the king) and \"zinkpojandeme\" (seat with braided decoration). It is estimated to have been produced at the turn of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. It was exposed in a central showcase in the Kumbukumbu Room, of which was the main highlight.\n\nThe dimensions of the throne were: 100 x 70 x 40 centimeters. The number in the inventory of 1844 was 6,000, identified as an \"African ruled throne, wood carved\".\n\nIt was a replica of the throne of the seventh king of Dahomey, Kpengla. It was given as a gift by ambassadors of the king Adandozan for the, at that time, prince John VI de Portugal in 1810 or 1811 and integrated to the Royal Museum, former name of the National Museum, in 1818. It was in the exhibition \"The Diplomacy of Friendship\", which precisely gathered African gifts to John, the Clement.\n\nIt was destroyed in the fire of 2018\n"}
