{"id": "5962470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5962470", "title": "Age of consent reform", "text": "Age of consent reform\n\nAge of consent reform is efforts to change age of consent laws. Proposed reforms typically include raising, lowering, or abolishing the age of consent, applying (or not applying) close-in-age exemptions, changing penalties, or changing how cases are examined in court. A related issue is whether or not to apply ages of consent to homosexual relationships that are different from those applied to heterosexual relationships. Organized efforts have ranged from academic discussions to political petitions.\n\nThere have been many initiatives to raise the age of consent. Gratian, a canon lawyer in the 12th century, stated that consent could not take place before 7 years of age. The English government eventually decided on age of 12 for women as their limitation. At that time, the age was about 12 in most countries. Today it is usually set between 15 and 18.\n\nIn 1275, the age of consent in England was set at 12 (Westminster 1 statute), the first time an age of consent had been set in England. However, in 1875 the Offence Against the Persons Act raised it to 13 in Great Britain and Ireland. The Criminal Law Amendment Act of 1885 raised it to 16. In 1917 a bill raising the age of consent in Great Britain and Ireland from 16 to 17 was defeated by only one vote. In Northern Ireland in 1950 the legislature of Northern Ireland passed a law called Children and Young Persons Act in 1950 that raised the age of consent from 16 to 17. The male homosexual age of consent in the United Kingdom was set at 21 in the Sexual Offences Act of 1967, lowered to 18 in the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994, and then finally lowered equally to 16 in England and Wales and Scotland in the Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act of 2000.\n\nAccording to sociologist Matthew Waites, in the 1970s, a number of grassroots political actions took place in Britain in favor of lowering the age of consent, which he described as based on claims of children's rights, gay liberation, or as a way to avoid unwanted pregnancies or sexually transmitted infections.\n\nIn May 1974, the Campaign for Homosexual Equality suggested a basic age of consent of 16, but 12 \"in cases where a defendant could prove the existence of meaningful consent\". In September 1974, the Sexual Law Reform Society proposed lowering the age of consent to 14, with the requirement that below the age of 18 the burden of proof that consent for sexual activities between the parties existed would be the responsibility of the older participant.\n\nIn 1976, the British political advocacy group the National Council for Civil Liberties (now known as \"Liberty\") published a proposal advocating reducing the age of consent laws to 10 years of age, only when both individuals are younger than 14, with a close-in-age exemption of two years if one of the involved individuals is older than 14 but younger than 16. The report was signed by Harriet Harman, who later went on to become a prominent figure in government and deputy leader of the Labour Party and the focus of media attention due to her affiliations with the NCCL.\n\nRussia in 1998 lowered the age of consent from 16 to 14, but in 2002 raised the age of consent from 14 back to 16. Since then penalties have also generally increased. Vladimir Putin said that a party advocating lowering the age of consent cannot be legally registered (hence, be a legal party) in Russia.\n\nIn January 2004, a Division bench of the Kerala's High Court in Southern India suggested that the age of consent should be raised from 16 to 18 in that state. Justice R. Basant said he considered \"illogic(al)\" that a legal system in which an age of 18 is used for other purposes – like the Indian Majority Act, the Contract Act, the Juvenile Justice Act, the Child Marriage Restraint Act and the Representation of People Act – has a different approach in the case of sexual consent. The age of consent in India was raised from 16 to 18 in 2012.\n\nOver the course of American history, the most commonly observed age of consent was 10 years. In 1880, 37 states had an age of consent of 10 years while 10 states kept an age of consent at 12, and Delaware maintained its age of consent at seven years, having lowered it from 10 in 1871. \n\nIn the late-19th century, a \"social purity movement\" composed of Christian feminist reform groups began advocating a raise in the age of consent to 16, with the goal of raising it ultimately to 18, and by 1920 almost all states had raised their age of consent to 16 or 18.\n\nBy the mid-1970s, there was widespread sympathy among homosexual activist groups for lowering the age of consent for all sexual activities (partially due to the disparate ages of consent for same-sex and opposite-sex sexual activity), with many gay publications freely discussing lowering it for boys. These tensions and antagonisms continued among activist circles until the 1980s; however, since the 1970s, gay liberationist groups promoting frontline advocacy against the age of consent were falling into decline. \n\nA small number of voices continued into the 2000s among self-declared pedophiles on certain internet websites and chatrooms.\n\nTwo final states legislating their ages of consent into the 15–18 range were Georgia and Hawaii, from 14, raised in 1995 and 2001, respectively.\n\nAs of August 1, 2018, the age of consent in each state in the United States was either 16 years of age, 17 years of age, or 18 years of age.\n\nIn 2012, Alabama State Representative Mac McCutcheon sponsored a bill to raise the age of consent from 16 to 18. As of August 2018, the age of consent in Alabama remains 16.\n\nIn 2001, the legislature in Hawaii voted to raise the age of consent from 14 to 16.\n\nIn June 2005, a bill was proposed before the General Assembly of Georgia (USA) to raise the age of consent from 16 to 18. The bill failed, however. \n\nGeorgia was the most notoriously resistant state to raising its age of consent in the early 1900s. Georgia's age of consent was 10 until 1918, and even then the age of consent was only raised to 14. Even after raising the age of consent in 1918, Georgia was still the only state in the United States to have an age of consent lower than 16. Georgia's age of consent remained at 14 until 1995, when a bill proposed by senator Steve Langford to make the age of consent 16 passed. \n\nIn 2006, following the infamous case of Genarlow Wilson (Wilson v. State), aggravated child molestation was reduced to a misdemeanor with a maximum of one year in prison if the offender was under 19, the victim was either 14 or 15 years old, and the offender is no more than 48 months older than the victim. (Georgia penal code, 16-6-4). Previously aggravated child molestation (at any age) carried 10–20 years imprisonment regardless of the age difference between the victim and offender.\n\nIn 2007 in Kentucky Representative JR Gray sponsored legislation in the state legislature that passed making it a felony for a teacher to have sex with a student under the age of 18. He also discussed the possibility of raising the age of consent from 16 to 18 but a bill was not produced for that.\n\nIn 2008 a bill was proposed in the Missouri legislature to raise the age of consent from 17 to 18. It was sponsored by Representative Stanley Cox.\n\nIn South Carolina in 2007 a bill was proposed before the legislature to raise the age of consent from 16 to 18. It did not succeed.\n\nPrior to 1981 Wisconsin had an exception to the law that allowed adults who were guilty of sex with minors 15 or older to use as a defense that the victim understood the nature of the sexual act, but there was a rebuttable presumption in Wisconsin that minors under the age of 18 were not capable of informed consent to sex, but as stated, this could be argued against by the defendant in the court of law if the minor was 15 years of age or older. In 1981 the age of consent was lowered from 18 to 16 in Wisconsin, but at the same time it was made an automatic felony to have sex with anyone under 16, informed consent for a 15-year-old was no longer a defense an adult defendant could use in court. In 1983 the age of consent in Wisconsin was raised from 16 to 18, under the new law sex with a minor 16 or older carried the lesser penalty of a Class A Misdemeanor. A marital exemption was included in the law for an adult who was married to a minor 16 or older, but no close-in-age exception was.\n\nIn June 2006, the Canadian government proposed a bill to raise the age of consent from 14 to 16 (in 1890, it was raised from 12 to 14), while creating a near-age exemption for sex between 14- to 15-year-olds and partners less than 5 years older, and keeping an existing near-age clause for sex between 12–13 year olds and partners less than 2 years older. The initiative also maintains a temporary exception for already existing marriages of minors 14 and 15 years old to adults, but forbids new marriages like these in the future. The law took effect 1 May 2008.\n\nBetween 1990 and 2002, the Netherlands operated what was in effect an age of consent of 12, subject to qualifications. The relevant law, passed in November, 1990, permitted sexual intercourse for young people between 12 and 16, but allowed a challenge by parents based on erosion of parental authority or child exploitation, which would be heard by a Council for the Protection of Children. In 1979, the Dutch Pacifist Socialist Party supported an unsuccessful petition to lower the age of consent to 12.\n\nThe age of consent in Peru was increased from 14 to 18 in 2006 as elections approached, but in 2007, Peru's new Congress voted to return the age to 14 regardless of gender and/or sexual orientation. However, after strong public opposition, the law was raised back to 18 on June 27, 2007, by a vote of 74 to zero (22 abstentions). It was returned to 14 in January 2013.\n\nIn 1977 while a reform in the French penal code was under discussion in the parliament, a petition to decriminalize all consented relations between adults and minors below the age of fifteen was sent to Parliament but did not succeed in changing the law. In 1978 the petition was discussed in a broadcast by radio France Culture in the program \"Dialogues\", with the transcript later published under the title Sexual Morality and the Law in a book by Michel Foucault. The participants, including Foucault, play-writer/actor Jean Danet and novelist/gay activist Guy Hocquenghem had all signed the petition.\n\nSome pedophiles have called to abolish the age of consent to allow adults to have sex freely with prepubescent children, arguing they can consent. Groups advocating pedophilia and the abolishment of age of consent laws include NAMBLA in the United States and Vereniging Martijn in the Netherlands. Several organisations in them have been involved with pro-pedophile activism in the past; only a few of these still exist today.\n\nIn the United States, many states have adopted close-in-age exemptions. These laws, known as \"Romeo and Juliet laws\" provide that a person can legally have consensual sex with a minor provided that he or she is not more than a given number of years older, generally four years or less. Some Romeo and Juliet laws (such as the law in Michigan and Florida) do not make it legal for a person below the age of consent to have sex with a slightly older person, but may exempt the older partner from sex offender registration.\n\nRomeo and Juliet laws were passed in 2007 in Connecticut and Indiana. In Indiana, a change in the law decriminalizes consensual sex between adolescents if they are found by a court to be in a \"dating relationship\" with an age difference of four years or less and other states have adopted other reforms. Michigan passed a Romeo and Juliet Law in 2011.\n\nThese reforms have been controversial. In Texas, Governor Rick Perry vetoed Romeo and Juliet laws that had been passed by the legislature in 2009, but signed one in 2011 to go into effect in September of that year. A 2011 Romeo and Juliet bill failed to pass in the Illinois legislature. In the State v. Limon case, Kansas's Romeo and Juliet law was found to be unconstitutional because it excluded same-sex sexual conduct.\n\nSome countries other than the United States also have Romeo and Juliet laws. Ireland's 2006 law has been contested because it treats girls differently from boys.\n\n"}
{"id": "341658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=341658", "title": "Apathy", "text": "Apathy\n\nApathy is a lack of feeling, emotion, interest, and concern about something of great importance. Apathy is a state of indifference, or the suppression of emotions such as concern, excitement, motivation, or passion. An apathetic individual has an absence of interest in or concern about emotional, social, spiritual, philosophical, or physical life and the world.\n\nThe apathetic may lack a sense of purpose, worth, or meaning in their life. An apathetic person may also exhibit insensibility or sluggishness. In positive psychology, apathy is described as a result of the individuals feeling they do not possess the level of skill required to confront a challenge (i.e. \"flow\"). It may also be a result of perceiving no challenge at all (e.g. the challenge is irrelevant to them, or conversely, they have learned helplessness). Apathy may be a sign of more specific mental problems such as schizophrenia or dementia. However, apathy is something that all people face in some capacity. It is a natural response to disappointment, dejection, and stress. As a response, apathy is a way to forget about these negative feelings. This type of common apathy is usually only felt in the short-term and when it becomes a long-term or even lifelong state is when deeper social and psychological issues are most likely present.\n\nApathy should be distinguished from reduced affect, which refers to reduced emotional expression but not necessarily reduced emotion.\n\nAlthough the word \"apathy\" was first used in 1594 and is derived from the Greek (\"apatheia\"), from (\"apathēs\", \"without feeling\" from \"a-\" (\"without, not\") and \"pathos\" (\"emotion\")), it is important not to confuse the two terms. Also meaning \"absence of passion,\" \"apathy\" or \"insensibility\" in Greek, the term \"apatheia\" was used by the Stoics to signify a (desirable) state of indifference towards events and things which lie outside one's control (that is, according to their philosophy, all things exterior, one being only responsible for one's own representations and judgments). In contrast to \"apathy\", \"apatheia\" is considered a virtue, especially in Orthodox monasticism. In the Philokalia the word \"dispassion\" is used for \"apatheia\", so as not to confuse it with \"apathy\".\n\nChristians have historically condemned apathy as a deficiency of love and devotion to God and his works. This interpretation of apathy is also referred to as Sloth and is listed among the Seven Deadly Sins. Clemens Alexandrinus used the term to draw to Christianity philosophers who aspired after virtue.\n\nThe modern concept of apathy became more well-known after World War I, when it was one of the various forms of \"shell shock\". Soldiers who lived in the trenches amidst the bombing and machine gun fire, and who saw the battlefields strewn with dead and maimed comrades, developed a sense of disconnected numbness and indifference to normal social interaction when they returned from combat.\n\nIn 1950, US novelist John Dos Passos wrote: \"Apathy is one of the characteristic responses of any living organism when it is subjected to stimuli too intense or too complicated to cope with. The cure for apathy is comprehension.\"\n\nDouglas Hofstadter suggests that, recognizing that the human brain's \"ego\" is nothing but a construct, no emotion is necessary. Since the realization of the future of an expanding universe, apathy is the only intelligent response. It is in contrast to the contented feeling of self-satisfaction of complacency, driven by the illusion of the \"ego\".\n\nApathy is a normal way for humans to cope with stress. Being able to \"shrug off\" disappointments is considered an important step in moving people forward and driving them to try other activities and achieve new goals. Coping seems to be one of the most important aspects of getting over a tragedy and an apathetic reaction may be expected. With the addition of the handheld device and the screen between people, apathy has also become a common occurrence on the net as users observe others being bullied, slandered, threatened or even sent horrific pictures. The bystander effect grows to an apathetic level as people lose interest in caring for others who are not in their “circle,” even going so far as to join in the torment as well.\n\nThere may be other things contributing to a person's apathy. Activist David Meslin argues that people often care, and that apathy is often the result of social systems actively obstructing engagement and involvement. He describes various obstacles that prevent people from knowing how or why they might get involved in something. Meslin focuses on design choices that unintentionally or intentionally exclude people. These include: capitalistic media systems that have no provisions for ideas that are not immediately (monetarily) profitable, government and political media (e.g. notices) that make it difficult for potentially interested individuals to find relevant information, and media portrayals of heroes as \"chosen\" by outside forces rather than self-motivated. He moves that we redefine social apathy to think of it, not as a population that is stupid or lazy, but as a result of poorly designed systems that fail to invite others to participate.\n\nApathy has been socially viewed as worse than things such as hate or anger. Not caring whatsoever, in the eyes of some, is even worse than having distaste for something. Author Leo Buscaglia is quoted as saying \"I have a very strong feeling that the opposite of love is not hate-it's apathy. It's not giving a damn.\" Helen Keller claimed that apathy is the \"worst of them all\" when it comes to the various evils of the world. French social commentator and political thinker Charles de Montesquieu stated that \"the tyranny of a prince in an oligarchy is not so dangerous to the public welfare as the apathy of a citizen in the democracy.\" As can be seen by these quotes and various others, the social implications of apathy are great. Many people believe that not caring at all can be worse for society than individuals who are overpowering or hateful.\n\nApathy in students, especially those in high school, is a growing phenomenon. Apathy in schools is most easily recognized by students being unmotivated or, quite commonly, being motivated by outside factors. For example, when asked about their motivation for doing well in school, fifty percent of students cited outside sources such as \"college acceptance\" or \"good grades\". On the contrary, only fourteen percent cited \"gaining an understanding of content knowledge or learning subject material\" as their motivation to do well in school. As a result of these outside sources, and not a genuine desire for knowledge, students often do the minimum amount of work necessary to get by in their classes. This then leads to average grades and test grades but no real grasping of knowledge. Many students cited that \"assignments/content was irrelevant or meaningless\" and that this was the cause of their apathetic attitudes toward their schooling. These apathetic attitudes lead to teacher and parent frustration. Other causes of apathy in students include situations within their home life, media influences, peer influences, and school struggles and failures. Some of the signs for apathetic students include declining grades, skipping classes, routine illness, and behavioral changes both in school and at home.\n\nAlso known as the bystander effect, bystander apathy occurs when, during an emergency, those standing by do nothing to help but instead stand by and watch. Sometimes this can be caused by one bystander observing other bystanders and imitating their behavior. If other people are not acting in a way that makes the situation seem like an emergency that needs attention, often other bystanders will act in the same way. The diffusion to responsibility can also be to blame for bystander apathy. The more people that are around in emergency situations, the more likely individuals are to think that someone else will help so they do not need to. This theory was popularized by social psychologists in response to the 1964 Kitty Genovese murder. The murder took place in New York and the victim, Genovese, was stabbed to death as bystanders reportedly stood by and did nothing to stop the situation or even call the police. Latane and Darley are the two psychologists who did research on this theory. They performed different experiments that placed people into situations where they had the opportunity to intervene or do nothing. The individuals in the experiment were either by themselves, with a stranger(s), with a friend, or with a confederate. The experiments ultimately led them to the conclusion that there are many social and situational factors that are behind whether a person will react in an emergency situation or simply remain apathetic to what is occurring.\n\nApathy is one psychological barrier to communication. An apathetic listener creates a communication barrier by not caring or paying attention to what they are being told. An apathetic speaker, on the other hand, tends to not relate information well and, in their lack of interest, may leave out key pieces of information that need to be communicated. Within groups, an apathetic communicator can be detrimental. Their lack of interest or passion can inhibit the other group members in what they are trying to accomplish. Within interpersonal communication, an apathetic listener can make the other feel that they are not cared for or about. Overall, apathy is a dangerous barrier to successful communication. Apathetic speakers and listeners are individuals that have no care for what they are trying to communicate, or what is being communicated to them.\n\nDeveloped by Robert Marin in 1991, the Apathy Evaluation Scale (AES) is a way of measuring as related to brain-related pathology. Centered around evaluation, the scale can either be self-informed or other-informed. The three versions of the test include self, informant such as a family member, and clinician. The scale is based around questionnaires that ask about topics including interest, motivation, socialization, and how the individual spends their time. The individual or informant answers on a scale of \"not at all\", \"slightly\", \"somewhat\" or \"a lot\". Each item on the evaluation is created with positive or negative syntax and deals with cognition, behavior, and emotion. Each item is then scored and, based on the score, the individual's level of apathy can be evaluated.\n\nMental health journalist and author John McManamy argues that although psychiatrists do not explicitly deal with the condition of apathy, it is a psychological problem for some depressed people, in which they get a sense that \"nothing matters\", the \"lack of will to go on and the inability to care about the consequences\". He describes depressed people who \"...cannot seem to make [themselves] do anything\", who \"can't complete anything\", and who do not \"feel any excitement about seeing loved ones\". He acknowledges that the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" does not discuss apathy.\n\nIn a \"Journal of Neuropsychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences\" article from 1991, Robert Marin, MD, claimed that apathy occurs due to brain damage or neuropsychiatric illnesses such as Alzheimer's, dementia, Parkinson's, or Huntington's, or else an event such as a stroke. Marin argues that apathy should be regarded as a syndrome or illness.\n\nA review article by Robert van Reekum, MD, et al. from the University of Toronto in the \"Journal of Neuropsychiatry\" (2005) claimed that an obvious relationship between depression and apathy exists in some populations.\n\nApathy affects nearly 50–70 percent of individuals with Alzheimer's disease. It is a neuropsychiatric symptom of Alzheimer's associated with functional impairment. There are two main causes of apathy that have been recognized in patients with Alzheimer's. First, dysfunction in frontal systems of the brain is thought to be an important neurobiological basis for the onset of apathy. Second, the neuropathological changes associated with dementia, and therefore Alzheimer's, may also result in apathy. Cholinesterase inhibitors, used as the first line of treatment for the cognitive symptoms associated with dementia, have also shown some modest benefit for behavior disturbances such as apathy. Methylphenidate has been the most widely studied drug for the treatment of apathy in dementia. Management of apathetic symptoms using methylphenidate have shown promise in randomized placebo controlled trials of Alzheimer's patients. A phase III multi-centered randomized placebo-controlled trial of methylphenidate for the treatment of apathy is currently underway and planned for completion in August 2020.\n\nWhile apathy and anxiety may appear to be separate, and different, states of being, there are many ways that severe anxiety can cause apathy. First, the emotional fatigue that so often accompanies severe anxiety leads to one's emotions being worn out, thus leading to apathy. Second, the low serotonin levels associated with anxiety often lead to less passion and interest in the activities in one's life which can be seen as apathy. Third, negative thinking and distractions associated with anxiety can ultimately lead to a decrease in one's overall happiness which can then lead to an apathetic outlook about one's life. Finally, the difficulty enjoying activities that individuals with anxiety often face can lead to them doing these activities much less often and can give them a sense of apathy about their lives. Even behavioral apathy may be found in individuals with anxiety in the form of them not wanting to make efforts to treat their anxiety.\n\nOften, apathy is felt after witnessing horrific acts, such as the killing or maiming of people during a war, e.g. posttraumatic stress disorder. It is also known to be a distinct psychiatric syndrome that is associated with many conditions, some of which are: CADASIL syndrome, depression, Alzheimer's disease, Chagas disease, Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease, dementia (and dementias such as Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia, and frontotemporal dementia), Korsakoff's syndrome, excessive vitamin D, hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, general fatigue, Huntington's disease, Pick's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), brain damage, schizophrenia, schizoid personality disorder, bipolar disorder, autism spectrum disorders, ADHD, and others. Some medications and the heavy use of drugs such as opiates or GABA-ergic drugs may bring apathy as a side effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4779146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4779146", "title": "Ashkenazi Jewish intelligence", "text": "Ashkenazi Jewish intelligence\n\nAshkenazi Jewish intelligence, often referred to as the \"Jewish genius\", is a subject that explores the perception that Ashkenazi Jews tend to have a higher intelligence than all other ethnic groups and excel disproportionately in many fields and has been an occasional subject of scientific controversy.\n\nThe average IQ score of Ashkenazi Jews has been calculated to be from a range of 108–115 under some studies, which would be significantly higher than that of any other ethnic group in the world.\n\nA 2005 paper by three authors who have been linked to theories described as \"scientific racism,\" \"Natural History of Ashkenazi Intelligence\" proposed that Ashkenazi Jews as a group inherit higher verbal and mathematical intelligence with somewhat lower spikes in spatial intelligence than other ethnic groups, on the basis of inherited diseases and the peculiar economic situation of Ashkenazi Jews in the Middle Ages.\n\nAshkenazi Jews have had success in a variety of academic fields disproportionate to their small population size, including science, technology, politics, and law. For instance, Ashkenazi Jews have won more than one quarter of Fields Medals, Turing Awards, and Regeneron Science Talent Search awards. People of Ashkenazi Jewish descent are also disproportionately represented among world chess champions (54 percent), National Medal of Science recipients (37 percent), U.S. Nobel Prize winners (29 percent), and Nobel laureates in medicine or physiology (42 percent). Furthermore, Jews comprise up to one third of the student populace at Ivy League schools and 30 percent of U.S. Supreme Court law clerks.\n\nAshkenazi Jews have also had disproportionate success in non-academic fields such as business and commerce. According to the 1931 census of Poland, Jews comprised 9.8 percent of the Polish population but controlled 22.4 percent of the wealth in the country. Despite their small population, Ashkenazi Jews in Poland also owned 55 percent of large and medium-sized commercial businesses in 1938 and dominated the textile, chemical, food, transportation, paper manufacturing, and building material industries.\n\nA more direct approach is to measure intelligence with psychometric tests. Different studies have found different results, but most have found above-average verbal and mathematical intelligence in Ashkenazi Jews, along with below-average spatial intelligence.\n\nAssuming that today there is a statistical difference in intelligence between Ashkenazi Jews and other ethnic groups, there still remains the question of how much of the difference is caused by genetic factors.\n\n\"Natural History of Intelligence\", a 2005 paper by Gregory Cochran, Jason Hardy, and Henry Harpending, put forth the conjecture that the unique conditions under which Ashkenazi Jews lived in medieval Europe selected for high verbal and mathematical intelligence but not spatial intelligence. Their paper has four main premises:\n\nOther scientists gave the paper a mixed reception, ranging from outright dismissal to acknowledgement that the hypothesis might be true and merits further research.\n\nIn a television interview, Cochran said:\n\"It doesn't have to be extremely heritable for this [intelligence inheritance] to have happened, because you only need small changes in each generation, and there might be forty generations over 1000 years. So if [Ashkenazi Jews] increased a third of an IQ point per generation, that would almost certainly be enough to make this effect happen.\"\n\nThe enforcement of a religious norm requiring Jewish fathers to educate their sons, whose high cost caused voluntary conversions, might explain a large part of a reduction in the size of the Jewish population. Persecution of European Jews may have fallen disproportionately on people of lower intelligence.\n\nIn medieval Ashkenazi society, wealth, social status, and occupation were largely inherited. The wealthy had more children than the poor, but it was difficult for people born into a poor social class to advance or enter a new occupation. Leading families held their positions for centuries. Without upward social mobility, genes for greater talent at calculation or languages would likely have had little effect on reproductive success. So, it is not clear that mathematical and verbal talent were the prime factors for success in the occupations to which Jews were limited at the time. Social connections, social acumen, willingness to take risks, and access to capital through both skill and nepotism could have played at least as great a role.\n\nOn the other hand, controversial research by Gregory Clark has indicated that social mobility has been consistently low but non-negligible throughout history, and that social mobility was no lower in previous centuries than it has been in recent times.\n\nGenetic studies have suggested that most Ashkenazi Jewish congenital diseases arose from genetic drift after a population bottleneck, a phenomenon known as the founder effect, rather than from selective pressure favoring those genes as called for by the Cochran, \"et al.\" hypothesis. To take one example, the mutation responsible for Tay–Sachs disease arose in the 8th or 9th century, when the Ashkenazi Jewish population in Europe was small, just before they spread throughout Europe. The high frequency of this disease among Ashkenazi Jews today might simply be the result of their not marrying outside their group, not because the gene for Tay–Sachs disease confers an advantage that more than makes up for the fact that the disease usually kills by age three. However, an examination of the frequencies and locations of the genes for 21 Ashkenazi Jewish congenital diseases suggested that six of them do appear to result from selective pressure, including the mutation for Tay–Sachs disease. There is still no evidence one way or the other about whether the reason for this is increased intelligence for commercial skills or something else.\n\nEvolutionary psychologist Steven Pinker suggested that \"[t]he most obvious test of a genetic cause of Ashkenazi the advantage would be a cross-adoption study that measured the adult IQ of children with Ashkenazi biological parents and gentile adoptive parents, and vice versa\", but noted, \"No such study exists, so [Cochran]'s evidence is circumstantial.\"\n\nAnother type of explanation for higher intelligence in Ashkenazi Jews is differences in culture which tend to promote cultivation of intellectual talents.\n\nFor example, after the destruction of the Second Temple in 70 CE, Jewish culture replaced its emphasis on ritual with an emphasis on study and scholarship. Unlike the surrounding cultures, most Jews, even farmers, were taught to read and write in childhood. Talmudic scholarship became a leading key to social status. The Talmudic tradition may have made the Jews well suited for financial and managerial occupations at a time when these occupations provided new opportunities.\n\nThe emphasis on scholarship came before the Jews turned from agriculture to urban occupations. This suggests that premise #3 of Cochran et al. may have the causal direction backward: mastery of written language enabled Jews to thrive in finance and international trade rather than the other way around. Similar cultural traditions continue to the present day, possibly providing a non-genetic explanation for contemporary Ashkenazi Jews' high IQs and prevalence in intellectual fields.\n\nOther proposed cultural explanations:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "690278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=690278", "title": "Choice", "text": "Choice\n\nChoice involves decision making. It can include judging the merits of multiple options and selecting one or more of them. One can make a choice between imagined options (\"What would I do if...?\") or between real options followed by the corresponding action. For example, a traveller might choose a route for a journey based on the preference of arriving at a given destination as soon as possible. The preferred (and therefore chosen) route can then follow from information such as the length of each of the possible routes, traffic conditions, etc. The arrival at a choice can include more complex motivators such as cognition, instinct, and feeling.\n\nSimple choices might include what to eat for dinner or what to wear on a Saturday morning – choices that have relatively low-impact on the chooser's life overall. More complex choices might involve (for example) what candidate to vote for in an election, what profession to pursue, a life partner, etc. – choices based on multiple influences and having larger ramifications.\n\nFreedom of choice is generally cherished, whereas a severely limited or artificially restricted choice can lead to discomfort with choosing, and possibly an unsatisfactory outcome. In contrast, a choice with excessively numerous options may lead to confusion, regret of the alternatives not taken, and indifference in an unstructured existence;\nand the illusion that choosing an object or a course, necessarily leads to the control of that object or course, can cause psychological problems.\n\nThere are four main types of decisions, although they can be expressed in different ways. Brian Tracy breaks them down into:\nA fifth type, however, or fourth if avoided and \"no-brainer\" decisions are combined as one type, is the collaborative decision, which should be made in consultation with, and by agreement of others. Collaborative Decision Making revolutionized air-traffic safety by not deferring to the captain when a lesser crew member becomes aware of a problem.\n\nAnother way of looking at decisions focuses on the thought mechanism used, is the decision:\n\nRecognizing that \"type\" is an imprecise term, an alternate way to classify types of choices is to look at outcomes and the impacted entity. For example, using this approach three types of choices would be:\n\nIn this approach, establishing the types of choices makes it possible to identify the related decisions that will influence and constrain a specific choice as well as be influenced and constrained by another choice.\n\nThere are many \"executive decision maker\" products available, such as the decision wheels and the Magic 8-Ball, which randomly produce yes/no or other \"decisions\" for someone who cannot make up their mind or just wants to delegate.\n\nA ouija board is also a delegated decision.\n\nAs a moral principle, decisions should be made by those most affected by the decision, but this is not normally applied to persons in jail, who might likely make a decision other than to remain in jail. Robert Gates cited this principle in allowing photographs of returning war dead.\n\nWhen choosing between options one must make judgments about the quality of each option's attributes. For example, if one is choosing between candidates for a job, the quality of relevant attributes such as previous work experience, college or high school GPA, and letters of recommendation will be judged for each option and the decision will likely be based on these attribute judgments. However, each attribute has a different level of \"evaluability\", that is, the extent to which one can use information from that attribute to make a judgment.\n\nAn example of a highly evaluable attribute is the SAT score. It is widely known in the United States that an SAT score below 800 is very bad while an SAT score above 1500 is exceptionally good. Because the distribution of scores on this attribute is relatively well known it is a highly evaluable attribute. Compare the SAT score to a poorly evaluable attribute, such as the number of hours spent doing homework. Most employers would not know what 10,000 hours spent doing homework means because they have no idea of the distribution of scores of potential workers in the population on this attribute.\n\nAs a result, evaluability can cause preference reversals between joint and separate evaluations. For example, Hsee, George Loewenstein, Blount & Bazerman (1999) looked at how people choose between options when they are directly compared because they are presented at the same time or when they cannot be compared because one is only given a single option. The canonical example is a hiring decision made about two candidates being hired for a programming job. Subjects in an experiment were asked to give a starting salary to two candidates, Candidate J and Candidate S. However, some viewed both candidates at the same time (joint evaluation), whereas others only viewed one candidate (separate evaluation). Candidate J had experience of 70 KY programs, and a GPA of 2.5, whereas Candidate S had experience of 10 KY programs and a GPA of 3.9. The results showed that in joint evaluation both candidates received roughly the same starting salary from subjects, who apparently thought a low GPA but high experience was approximately equal to a high GPA but low experience. However, in the separate evaluation, subjects paid Candidate S, the one with the high GPA, substantially more money. The explanation for this is that KY programs is an attribute that is difficult to evaluate and thus people cannot base their judgment on this attribute in separate evaluation.\n\nPersonal factors determine food choice. They are preference, associations, habits, ethnic heritage, tradition, values, social pressure, emotional comfort, availability, convenience, economy, image, medical conditions, and nutrition.\n\nA number of research studies in economic psychology have focused on how individual behavior differs when the choice set size (the number of choices to choose from) is low versus when it is high. Of particular interest is whether individuals are more likely to purchase a product from a large versus a small choice set. Currently, the effect of choice set size on the probability of a purchase is unclear. In some cases, large choice set sizes discourage individuals from making a choice and in other cases it either encourages them or has no effect. One study compared the allure of more choice to the tyranny of too much choice. Individuals went virtual shopping in different stores that had a randomly determined set of choices ranging from 4 to 16, with some being good choices and some being bad. Researchers found a stronger effect for the allure of more choice. However, they speculate that due to random assignment of number of choices and goodness of those choices, many of the shops with fewer choices included zero or only one option that was reasonably good, which may have made it easier to make an acceptable choice when more options were available.\n\nThere is some evidence that while greater choice has the potential to improve a person's welfare, sometimes there is such a thing as too much choice. For example, in one experiment involving a choice of free soda, individuals explicitly requested to choose from six as opposed to 24 sodas, where the only benefit from the smaller choice set would be to reduce the cognitive burden of the choice. A recent study supports this research, finding that human services workers indicated preferences for scenarios with limited options over extensive-options scenarios. As the number of choices within the extensive-options scenarios increased, the preference for limited options increased as well. Attempts to explain why choice can demotivate someone from a purchase have focuses on two factors. One assumes that perusing a larger number of choices imposes a cognitive burden on the individual. The other assumes that individuals can experience regret if they make a suboptimal choice, and sometimes avoid making a choice to avoid experiencing regret.\n\nFurther research has expanded on choice overload, suggesting that there is a paradox of choice. As increasing options are available, three problems emerge. First, there is the issue of gaining adequate information about the choices in order to make a decision. Second, having more choices leads to an escalation of expectation. When there are increased options, people’s standards for what is an acceptable outcome rise; in other words, choice “spoils you.” Third, with many options available, people may come to believe they are to blame for an unacceptable result because with so many choices, they should have been able to pick the best one. If there is one choice available, and it ends up being disappointing, the world can be held accountable. When there are many options and the choice that one makes is disappointing, the individual is responsible.\n\nHowever, a recent meta-analysis of the literature on choice overload calls such studies into question (Scheibehenne, Greigeneder, and Todd, 2010). In many cases, researchers have found no effect of choice set size on people's beliefs, feelings, and behavior. Indeed, overall, the effect of \"too many options\" is minimal at best.\n\nWhile it might be expected that it is preferable to keep one’s options open, research has shown that having the opportunity to revise one’s decisions leaves people less satisfied with the decision outcome. A recent study found that participants experienced higher regret after having made a reversible decision. The results suggest that reversible decisions cause people to continue to think about the still relevant choice options, which might increase dissatisfaction with the decision and regret.\n\nIndividual personality plays a significant role in how individuals deal with large choice set sizes. Psychologists have developed a personality test that determines where an individual lies on the satisficer-maximizer spectrum. A maximizer is one who always seeks the very best option from a choice set, and may anguish after the choice is made as to whether it was indeed the best. Satisficers may set high standards but are content with a good choice, and place less priority on making the best choice. Due to this different approach to decision-making, maximizers are more likely to avoid making a choice when the choice set size is large, probably to avoid the anguish associated with not knowing whether their choice was optimal. One study looked at whether the differences in choice satisfaction between the two are partially due to a difference in willingness to commit to one’s choices. It found that maximizers reported a stronger preference for retaining the ability to revise choices. Additionally, after making a choice to buy a poster, satisficers offered higher ratings of their chosen poster and lower ratings of the rejected alternatives. Maximizers, however, were less likely to change their impressions of the posters after making their choice which left them less satisfied with their decision.\n\nMaximizers are less happy in life, perhaps due to their obsession with making optimal choices in a society where people are frequently confronted with choice. One study found that maximizers reported significantly less life satisfaction, happiness, optimism, and self-esteem, and significantly more regret and depression, than did satisficers. In regards to buying products, maximizers were less satisfied with consumer decisions and were more regretful. They were also more likely to engage in social comparison, where they analyze their relative social standing among their peers, and to be more affected by social comparisons in which others appeared to be in higher standing than them. For example, maximizers who saw their peer solve puzzles faster than themselves expressed greater doubt about their own abilities and showed a larger increase in negative mood. On the other hand, people who refrain from taking better choices through drugs or other forms of escapism tend to be much happier in life.\n\nOthers say that there is never too much choice and that there is a difference between happiness and satisfaction: a person who tries to find better decisions will often be dissatisfied, but not necessarily unhappy since his attempts at finding better choices did improve his lifestyle (even if it wasn't the \"best decision\" he will continually try to \"incrementally improve\" the decisions he takes).\n\nChoice architecture is the process of encouraging people to make good choices through grouping and ordering the decisions in a way that maximizes successful choices and minimizes the number of people who become so overwhelmed by complexity that they abandon the attempt to choose. Generally, success is improved by presenting the smaller or simpler choices first, and by choosing and promoting sensible default options.\n\nCertain choices, as personal preferences, can be central to expressing one's concept of self-identity or values. In general, the more utilitarian an item, the less the choice says about a person's self-concept. Purely functional items, such as a fire extinguisher, may be chosen solely for function alone, but non-functional items, such as music, clothing fashions, or home decorations, may instead be chosen to express a person's concept of self-identity or associated values.\n\nSophia Rosenfeld analyses critical reactions to choice in her review\nof some of the work of Iyengar,\nBen-Porath,\nGreenfield,\nand Salecl.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3279786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3279786", "title": "Comparison of the imperial and US customary measurement systems", "text": "Comparison of the imperial and US customary measurement systems\n\nBoth the imperial and United States customary systems of measurement derive from earlier English systems used in the Middle Ages, that were the result of a combination of the local Anglo-Saxon units inherited from German tribes and Roman units brought by William the Conqueror after the Norman Conquest of England in 1066.\n\nHaving this shared heritage, the two systems are quite similar, but there are differences. The US customary system is based on English systems of the 18th century, while the Imperial system was defined in 1824, after American independence.\n\nVolume may be measured either in terms of units of cubic length or with specific volume units. The units of cubic length (the cubic inch, cubic foot, cubic mile, etc.) are the same in the imperial and US customary systems but with the specific units of volume (the bushel, gallon, fluid ounce, etc.) they differ. The US customary system has one set of units for fluids and another set for dry goods. The imperial system has only one set defined independently of and subdivided differently from its US counterparts.\n\nBy the end of the eighteenth century various systems of volume measurement were in use throughout the British Empire. Wine was measured with units based on the Queen Anne's gallon of 231 cubic inches (3.785 L). Beer was measured with units based on an ale gallon of 282 cubic inches (4.621 L). Grain was measured with the Winchester measure with a gallon of approximately 268.8 cubic inches (one eighth of a Winchester bushel or 4.405 L). In 1824 these were replaced with a single system based on the imperial gallon. \nOriginally defined as the volume of of distilled water (under certain conditions), then redefined by the Weights and Measures Act 1985 to be exactly (277.4 cu in), the imperial gallon is close in size to the old ale gallon.\n\nThe Winchester measure was made obsolete in the British Empire but remained in use in the US. The Winchester bushel was replaced with an imperial bushel of 8 imperial gallons. The subdivisions of the bushel were maintained. As with US dry measures the imperial system divides the bushel into 4 pecks, 8 gallons, 32 quarts or 64 pints. Thus all of these imperial measures are about 3% larger than their US dry measure counterparts.\n\nFluid measure is not as straightforward. The American colonists adopted a system based on the 231-cubic-inch wine gallon for all fluid purposes. This became the US fluid gallon. Both the imperial and US fluid gallon are divided into 4 quarts, 8 pints or 32 gills. However, whereas the US gill is divided into 4 US fluid ounces, the imperial gill is divided into 5 imperial fluid ounces. So whilst the imperial gallon, quart, pint and gill are about 20% larger than their US fluid measure counterparts, the fluid ounce is about 4% smaller. Note that one avoirdupois ounce of water has an approximate volume of one imperial fluid ounce at 62 °F (16.67 °C). This convenient fluid-ounce-to-avoirdupois-ounce relation does not exist in the US system.\n\nOne noticeable comparison between the imperial system and the US system is between some Canadian and American beer bottles. Many Canadian brewers package beer in a 12-imperial-fluid-ounce bottles, which are 341 mL each. American brewers package their beer in 12-US-fluid-ounce bottles, which are 355 mL each. This results in the Canadian bottles being labelled as 11.5 fl oz in US units when imported into the United States. Because Canadian beer bottles predate the adoption of the Metric System in that country, they are still sold and labelled in Canada as 341 mL. Canned beer in Canada is sold and labelled in 355 mL cans, and when exported to the US are labelled as 12 fl oz.\n\nThe international yard is defined as exactly 0.9144 metres. This definition was agreed by the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand through the international yard and pound agreement of 1959.\n\nThe US survey foot and survey mile have been maintained as separate units for surveying purposes to avoid the accumulation of error that would follow replacing them with the international versions, particularly with State Plane Coordinate Systems. (The choice of unit for surveying purposes is based on the unit used when the overall framework or geodetic datum for the region was established, so that - for example - much of the former British empire still uses the Clarke foot for surveying.) The US survey foot is defined so that 1 metre is exactly 39.37 inches, making the international foot of 0.3048 metres exactly two parts per million shorter. This is a difference of just over 3.2 mm or a little over one eighth of an inch per mile.\n\nThe main units of length (inch, foot, yard and international mile) were the same in the US, though the US rarely uses some of the intermediate units, such as the (surveyor's) chain (22 yards) and the furlong (220 yards).\n\nAt one time the definition of the nautical mile was based on the sphere whose surface is the same as the Clarke Ellipsoid. In the US, the full value of 1853.256 metres was used, but in the Commonwealth, this was rounded to 6080 feet (1853.184 m). These have been replaced by the international version, which rounds the sixtieth part of the 45° to the nearest metre, as 1852 metres.\n\nTraditionally, both Britain and the US used three different weight systems: troy weight for precious metals, avoirdupois weight for most other purposes and apothecaries' weight for medicines. However, apothecaries' weight has now been superseded by the metric system.\n\nOne important difference is the widespread use in Britain of the stone of 14 pounds () for body weight. This unit is not used in the United States, although its influence was seen in the practice, until World War II, of selling flour by a barrel of 196 pounds (14 stone). Another difference arose when Britain abolished the \"troy pound\" () on January 6, 1879, leaving only the \"troy ounce\" () and its decimal subdivisions, whereas the troy pound (of 12 troy ounces) and pennyweight are still legal in the United States, although no longer widely used.\n\nIn all the systems, the fundamental unit is the pound (lb), and all other units are defined as fractions or multiples of it. The tables of imperial troy mass and apothecaries' mass are the same as the corresponding United States tables, except for the British spelling \"drachm\" in the table of apothecaries' mass. The table of imperial avoirdupois mass is the same as the United States table up to 1 pound, but above that point the tables differ.\n\nThe imperial system has a hundredweight, defined as eight stone or 112 lb (), whereas a US hundredweight is 100 lb (). In both systems, 20 hundredweights make a ton. In the US, the terms \"long ton\" (, ) and \"short ton\" (; ) are used to distinguish them. The term \"metric ton\" is also used to denote a tonne (, ), which is about 2% less than the long ton.\n\n"}
{"id": "4461877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4461877", "title": "Conflict tactics scale", "text": "Conflict tactics scale\n\nThe conflict tactics scale (CTS), created by Murray A. Straus in 1979, is the \"most widely used instrument in research on family violence.\" There are two versions of the CTS; the CTS2 (an expanded and modified version of the original CTS) and the CTSPC (CTS Parent-Child). As of 2005, the CTS has been used in about 600 peer reviewed scientific or scholarly papers, including longitudinal birth-cohort studies. National surveys conducted in the USA include two National Family Violence Surveys (1975 and 1985), the National Violence Against Women Survey (1998), which, according to Straus, used a \"feminist version\" of the CTS in order to minimize data on female perpetration of intimate partner violence (IPV), and the National Survey of Child and Adolescent Well-Being. A major international survey to use the CTS was the 2006 International Dating Violence Study, which investigated IPV amongst 13,601 college students across thirty-two different countries.\n\nIn a 2005 article in the \"Journal of Interpersonal Violence\", Jennifer Langhinrichsen-Rohling listed the CTS amongst the most important advances in the field of IPV research, stating it \"was revolutionary because it allowed researchers to quantitatively study events that had often been ignored culturally and typically took place in private.\"\n\nHowever, the CTS is one of the most widely criticized domestic violence measurement instruments due to its exclusion of context variables and motivational factors in understanding acts of violence. The National Institute of Justice cautions that the CTS may not be appropriate for IPV research \"because it does not measure control, coercion, or the motives for conflict tactics.\"\n\nThe scales are based on the premise that conflict is an inevitable aspect of all human association, but that the use of coercion (including force and violence) as a conflict-resolution tactic is harmful. The CTS focuses on \"conflict tactics\" – the method used to advance one's own interest within a conflict – as a behavior, and measures the conflict tactic behaviors of both the respondent and their partner/primary caregiver. However, the CTS \"deliberately excludes attitudes, emotions, and cognitive appraisal of the behaviors\" measured. This is because many victims of IPV do not see themselves as suffering abuse, and as such, their cognitive appraisal of their situation can affect the measurements of the CTS. Straus explains that the \"discrepancy between the behavior and the cognitive appraisal of the behavior is important for understanding family violence and for designing programs of prevention and treatment. However, it is possible to identify the discrepancy only if there is an instrument such as the CTS which obtains the behavioral data.\"\n\nA CTS-based study would ideally include data from respondents and their partners/primary caregivers in order to investigate the degree of symmetry or asymmetry between their responses. The CTS can be administered through an in-person interview, telephone interview, self-administered questionnaire, and/or computer-administered questionnaire.\n\nThe revised CTS2 measures a total of 39 behaviors. Each of these behaviors, or \"items\", is divided into five categories: \"Negotiation\", \"Psychological Aggression\", \"Physical Assault\", \"Sexual Coercion\" and \"Injury.\" Each of the five categories is then further subdivided into two subscales: \"Negotiation\" is subdivided into \"Cognitive\" and \"Emotional\", while the other four categories are subdivided into \"Minor\" and \"Severe.\" There are six items in \"Negotiation\", eight in \"Psychological Aggression,\" twelve in \"Physical Assault,\" seven in \"Sexual Coercion,\" and six in \"Injury.\"\n\nExamples from each category include:\n\n\nCTS2 questions are presented in pairs. The first question in the pair asks respondents to indicate how often they carried out each item, in a range from \"never\" to \"more than 20 times,\" in the referent period. The second asks how often the partner carried out each item within the same referent period. Default referent periods are usually 12 months, but other spans of time can be used. Subscales measuring the degree of severity of \"less severe\" and \"more severe\" behaviors are included for all CTS scales, \"based on the presumed greater harm resulting from acts in the severe subscale.\" The severity of behaviors can also be measured by analyzing the frequency of the acts and by whether an injury was reported by the respondent.\n\nThe CTSPC (parent-child relationships) has scales to measure:\nThe CTSPC also includes supplementary questions on instances of neglect, sexual abuse, and discipline in the past week.\n\nThere are many ways to score the CTS.\n\nCommon scoring methods include:\n\n\nCritics of the CTS argue it is an ineffective tool with which to measure IPV rate because, although it counts the number of acts of violence, it does not provide information about the context in which such acts occur (including the initiation, intention, history, or pattern of violence). Critics say such contexts cannot be divorced from the act itself, and therefore the CTS misrepresents the characteristics of violence between partners. Straus responds to this criticism by stating \"the idea that the CTS physical assault scale is defective because it does not take into account the context, meaning, causes, and consequences of the violent acts is analogous to declaring a reading ability test invalid because it does not provide data on why a child reads poorly (such as limited exposure to books at home or test anxiety), or for not measuring the harmful effects of reading difficulty (such as low self-esteem or dropping out of school).\" Michael Kimmel says of this argument, \"such an analogy is utterly inadequate. It is more akin to a teacher who doesn't look at how far off the spelling mistakes are or whether there is a pattern in the mistakes that might point to a physiological problem like dyslexia or some other learning disability, as compared to academic laziness, and thus leaving the learning problems untouched and misdirecting funds away from towards punitive after-school programs for lazy students.\"\n\nAnother common criticism is that the CTS carries ideological assumptions about domestic violence, such as the notion that partner violence is the result of an \"argument\" rather than an attempt to control one's partner. Furthermore, the CTS asks about frequency only in the past twelve months and fails to detect ongoing systematic patterns of abuse. It also excludes incidents of violence that occur after separation and divorce. The CTS also does not measure economic abuse, manipulation involving children, isolation, or intimidation – all common measures of violence from a victim-advocacy perspective.\n\nAnother methodological problem is that interobserver reliability (the likelihood that the two members of the measured dyad respond similarly) is near zero for tested husband and wife couples. That is, the chances of a given couple reporting similar answers about events they both experienced is no greater than chance. On the most severe CTS items, husband-wife agreement is actually below chance: \"On the item \"beat up,\" concordance was nil: although there were respondents of both sexes who claimed to have administered beatings and respondents of both sexes who claimed to have been on the receiving end, there was not a single couple in which one party claimed to have administered and the other to have received such a beating.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "732729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732729", "title": "Conjunction fallacy", "text": "Conjunction fallacy\n\nThe conjunction fallacy (also known as the Linda problem) is a formal fallacy that occurs when it is assumed that specific conditions are more probable than a single general one.\n\nThe most often-cited example of this fallacy originated with Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman. Although the description and person depicted are fictitious, Amos Tversky's secretary at Stanford was named Linda Covington, and he named the famous character in the puzzle after her.\n\n\"Linda is 31 years old, single, outspoken, and very bright. She majored in philosophy. As a student, she was deeply concerned with issues of discrimination and social justice, and also participated in anti-nuclear demonstrations.\"\n\nWhich is more probable?\n\nThe majority of those asked chose option 2. However, the probability of two events occurring together (in \"conjunction\") is always less than or equal to the probability of either one occurring alone—formally, for two events \"A\" and \"B\" this inequality could be written as formula_1 and formula_2.\n\nFor example, even choosing a very low probability of Linda being a bank teller, say Pr(Linda is a bank teller) = 0.05 and a high probability that she would be a feminist, say Pr(Linda is a feminist) = 0.95, then, assuming independence, Pr(Linda is a bank teller \"and\" Linda is a feminist) = 0.05 × 0.95 or 0.0475, lower than Pr(Linda is a bank teller).\n\nTversky and Kahneman argue that most people get this problem wrong because they use a heuristic (an easily calculated) procedure called representativeness to make this kind of judgment: Option 2 seems more \"representative\" of Linda based on the description of her, even though it is clearly mathematically less likely.\n\nIn other demonstrations, they argued that a specific scenario seemed more likely because of representativeness, but each added detail would actually make the scenario less and less likely. In this way it could be similar to the misleading vividness or slippery slope fallacies. More recently Kahneman has argued that the conjunction fallacy is a type of extension neglect.\n\nIn some experimental demonstrations, the conjoint option is evaluated separately from its basic option. In other words, one group of participants is asked to rank order the likelihood that Linda is a bank teller, a high school teacher, and several other options, and another group is asked to rank order whether Linda is a bank teller and active in the feminist movement versus the same set of options (without \"Linda is a bank teller\" as an option). In this type of demonstration, different groups of subjects rank order Linda as a bank teller and active in the feminist movement more highly than Linda as a bank teller.\n\nSeparate evaluation experiments preceded the earliest joint evaluation experiments, and Kahneman and Tversky were surprised when the effect was still observed under joint evaluation.\n\nIn separate evaluation, the term conjunction effect may be preferred.\n\nCritics such as Gerd Gigerenzer and Ralph Hertwig criticized the Linda problem on grounds such as the wording and framing. The question of the Linda problem may violate conversational maxims in that people assume that the question obeys the maxim of relevance. Gigerenzer argues that some of the terminology used have polysemous meanings, the alternatives of which he claimed were more \"natural\". He argues that the meaning of \"probable\" (\"what happens frequently\") corresponds to the mathematical probability people are supposed to be tested on, but the meanings of \"probable\" (\"what is plausible\" and \"whether there is evidence\") do not. The term \"and\" has even been argued to have relevant polysemous meanings. Many techniques have been developed to control for this possible misinterpretation, but none of them has dissipated the effect.\n\nMany variations in wording of the Linda problem were studied by Tversky and Kahneman. If the first option is changed to obey conversational relevance, i.e., \"Linda is a bank teller whether or not she is active in the feminist movement\" the effect is decreased, but the majority (57%) of the respondents still commit the conjunction error. If the probability is changed to frequency format (\"see debiasing section below\") the effect is reduced or eliminated. However, studies exist in which indistinguishable conjunction fallacy rates have been observed with stimuli framed in terms of probabilities versus frequencies.\n\nThe wording criticisms may be less applicable to the conjunction effect in separate evaluation. The \"Linda problem\" has been studied and criticized more than other types of demonstration of the effect (some described below).\n\nIn an incentivized experimental study, it has been shown that the conjunction fallacy decreased in those with greater cognitive ability, though it did not disappear. It has also been shown that the conjunction fallacy becomes less prevalent when subjects are allowed to consult with other subjects.\n\nPolicy experts were asked to rate the probability that the Soviet Union would invade Poland, and the United States would break off diplomatic relations, all in the following year. They rated it on average as having a 4% probability of occurring. Another group of experts was asked to rate the probability simply that the United States would break off relations with the Soviet Union in the following year. They gave it an average probability of only 1%.\n\nIn an experiment conducted in 1980, respondents were asked the following:\n\nSuppose Björn Borg reaches the Wimbledon finals in 1981. Please rank order the following outcomes from most to least likely.\n\nOn average, participants rated \"Borg will lose the first set but win the match\" more likely than \"Borg will lose the first set\".\n\nIn another experiment, participants were asked:\n\nConsider a regular six-sided die with four green faces and two red faces. The die will be rolled 20 times and the sequence of greens (G) and reds (R) will be recorded. You are asked to select one sequence, from a set of three, and you will win $25 if the sequence you choose appears on successive rolls of the die.\n\n\n65% of participants chose the second sequence, though option 1 is contained within it and is shorter than the other options. In a version where the $25 bet was only hypothetical the results did not significantly differ. Tversky and Kahneman argued that sequence 2 appears \"representative\" of a chance sequence (compare to the \"clustering illusion\").\n\nConsider another example: \nWhich of the following events is most likely to occur within the next year?\n\n1. The United States will withdraw all troops from Iraq.\n2. The United States will withdraw all troops from Iraq and bomb North Korean nuclear facilities.\n\nThe probability of the conjunctions is never greater than that of its conjuncts. Therefore, the first choice is more probable. No matter how unlikely it is that America will withdraw troops within the year from Iraq, it is even less likely they will do so \"and\" bomb nuclear facilities.\n\nDrawing attention to set relationships, using frequencies instead of probabilities and/or thinking diagrammatically sharply reduce the error in some forms of the conjunction fallacy.\n\nIn one experiment the question of the Linda problem was reformulated as follows:\n\nThere are 100 persons who fit the description above (that is, Linda’s). How many of them are:\n\nWhereas previously 85% of participants gave the wrong answer (bank teller and active in the feminist movement), in experiments done with this questioning none of the participants gave a wrong answer. Participants were forced to use a mathematical approach and thus recognised the difference more easily.\n\nHowever, in some tasks only based on frequencies, not on stories, that used clear logical formulations, conjunction fallacies continued to occur dominantly when the observed pattern of frequencies resembled a conjunction (only few exceptions).\n\n"}
{"id": "42012361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42012361", "title": "Cosheaf", "text": "Cosheaf\n\nIn topology, a branch of mathematics, a cosheaf with values in an ∞-category \"C\" that admits colimits is a functor \"F\" from the category of open subsets of a topological space \"X\" (more precisely its nerve) to \"C\" such that\n\nThe basic example is formula_6 where on the right is the singular chain complex of \"U\" with coefficients in an abelian group \"A\".\n\nExample: If \"f\" is a continuous map, then formula_7 is a cosheaf.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13987523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13987523", "title": "Distinction bias", "text": "Distinction bias\n\nDistinction bias, a concept of decision theory, is the tendency to view two options as more distinctive when evaluating them simultaneously than when evaluating them separately.\n\nOne writer has presented what he called \"a simplistic view\" of distinction bias: When asked if someone would like an apple, they may say \"Yes\". So, an apple is placed before them and they begin to eat it and are happy. But what if two apples were placed on the table - one was the one they would have happily eaten and the other which is slightly fresher looking. The individual will choose the fresher apple and eat it and be happy but if asked, \"would you have enjoyed eating that other apple\", they would likely say \"No\". Even though in the alternate, no-choice reality they were perfectly happy with the apple. Moreover, if presented with five apples on a table, they might examine each apple so that they would be sure they had the best one, even though the time spent making that decision would be wasted. The reason for this is that distinction bias causes individuals to \"over-examine and over-value the differences between things as we scrutinize them.\"\n\nThe concept of the distinction bias was advanced by Christopher K. Hsee and Jiao Zhang of the University of Chicago as an explanation for differences in evaluations of options between joint evaluation mode and separate evaluation mode (2004). Evaluation mode is a contextual feature in decision making. Joint evaluation mode is when options are evaluated simultaneously, and separate evaluation mode is when each option is evaluated in isolation (e.g., Hsee, 1998; Hsee & Leclerc, 1998). Research shows that evaluation mode affects the evaluation of options, such that options presented simultaneously are evaluated differently from the same options presented separately.\n\nHsee and Zhang (2004) offered a number of potential explanations for this change in preferences from joint evaluation to separate evaluation, including the distinction bias. The distinction bias suggests that comparing two options, as done in joint evaluation, makes even small differences between options salient. In other words, viewing options simultaneously makes them seem more dissimilar than when viewing and evaluating each in isolation.\n\nWhen predictions or choices are made, explained Hsee and Zhang in their 2004 paper, people are often in the joint evaluation (JE) mode but when people experience an event, they are often in the single evaluation (SE) mode. The 'utility function' of an attribute can vary between single evaluation and joint evaluation. When people in joint evaluation make predictions or decisions for events to be experienced in single evaluation, they often resort to their joint evaluation preferences rather than single evaluation preferences and over-predict the difference that different values of an attribute will lead their happiness in single evaluation. This over-prediction is referred to as the distinction bias.\n\nFor example, when televisions are displayed next to each other on the sales floor, the difference in quality between two very similar, high-quality televisions may appear great. A consumer may pay a much higher price for the higher-quality television, even though the difference in quality is imperceptible when the televisions are viewed in isolation. Because the consumer will likely be watching only one television at a time, the lower-cost television would have provided a similar experience at a lower cost.\n\nThe same calculus can apply when one is choosing between a cheaper store-brand food product and a more expensive brand-name product. In many cases, the difference in taste between the two products would not be worth the difference in price. If the products were sampled in isolation, the difference in taste would be unnoticeable or negligible; consequently, the difference in price, not the difference in taste, ought to determine which choice the consumer makes. In 2010, a magazine asked consumers to try 12 brands of baked beans. Branston won the taste test, followed by Asda, Morrisons, and Heinz. The Morrisons beans, in other words, were preferred over the Heinz beans, even though, as it happened, they were half the price.\n\nOne writer has discussed the distinction bias in connection with such matters as choosing a job or a house. When making a choice between an interesting job that pays $60,000 a year and a boring job that pays $70,000 a year or a choice between two equally priced houses, one of them larger but farther from work, the average individual is likely to make false assumptions – for example, that $70,000 will make them feel exactly one-sixth better than $60,000, or that 4,000 square-foot house is one-third better than a 3,000 square-foot house. In reality, on average, we don't actually feel one-sixth better having the extra money or one-third better having the extra space. The more sensible approach, the writer advises in accordance with the research of Hsee and Zhang, is to avoid comparing two jobs, or houses, directly. Instead, consider each job, or house, individually and make an overall assessment of each one on its own, and then compare assessments, which allows them to make a choice that accurately predicts future experience.\n\nIn 2009, Margaret E. Brooks, Ashley M. Guidroz, and Madhura Chakrabarti reported on two studies in which they had examined the reactions of job applicants to alternative approaches to diversity in employment decisions. The applicants preferred the so-called holistic approaches, and the magnitude of their preference was considerably greater when both approaches were evaluated simultaneously. The researchers found that the results, which they viewed as important for \"applicant reactions research, human resource decision making, and policy formation\", were consistent with distinction bias.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "952471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=952471", "title": "Egil Krogh", "text": "Egil Krogh\n\nEgil \"Bud\" Krogh Jr. (born August 3, 1939) is an American lawyer who became infamous as an official of the Nixon Administration and who was imprisoned for his part in the Watergate Affair. He is currently Senior Fellow on Ethics and Leadership at the Center for the Study of the Presidency and Congress and Counselor to the Director at the School for Ethics and Global Leadership.\n\nKrogh was born in Chicago, Illinois and raised in Seattle, Washington; his father was a Norwegian immigrant. He graduated with highest honors from Principia College, Elsah, Illinois in 1961. After service in the U.S. Navy as a communications officer aboard USS \"Yorktown\" (1962–1965), he graduated from the University of Washington School of Law in 1968.\n\nHe was employed by Hullin, Ehrlichman, Roberts and Hodge, the Seattle law firm of family friend John Ehrlichman, and joined Ehrlichman in the counsel's office of Nixon's 1968 presidential campaign. After Nixon was elected, Krogh helped with the arrangements for the inauguration. Krogh joined the Nixon White House as an advisor on the District of Columbia and later served as liaison to the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs. It was there he met G. Gordon Liddy.\n\nBecause of his work regarding illegal drugs, Krogh managed the visit of Elvis Presley to the White House on December 21, 1970. Presley had arrived at the gate with a letter for President Nixon requesting a personal meeting to discuss how he could help the government fight the drug trade. The meeting took place and Nixon gave Presley an actual narcotics agent badge. Krogh wrote a book about these events: \"The Day Elvis Met Nixon\" (Pejama Press, 1994, ).\n\nEhrlichman made Krogh head of the \"Special Investigation Unit\" in the White House, charged with investigating information given covertly to the press by administration staffers. Krogh and his associates were known familiarly as the \"Plumbers\"—a secret team of operatives charged with fixing \"leaks.\" It was an unlikely choice: Krogh had a reputation as someone who obeyed the law so scrupulously that his friends gave him the ironic nickname \"Evil Krogh\". Theodore White would write \"to put Egil Krogh in charge of a secret police operation was equivalent to making Frank Merriwell chief executive of a KGB squad.\" Krogh brought Liddy into his new office.\n\nWhen the administration decided to pursue the Pentagon Papers leakers, it was Krogh who approved the September 1971 burglary of the office of Lewis Fielding, the psychiatrist seeing Daniel Ellsberg. Liddy and E. Howard Hunt would commit the actual break-in. Ehrlichman, who himself went to prison for Watergate related crimes, would later write in his memoirs this was an example of \"such doubtful personal judgment ... that it has to be said [Krogh] materially contributed to the demise of the Nixon administration.\"\n\nKrogh's employment with the SIU was terminated when he refused to authorize a wiretap. On November 30, 1973, Krogh pleaded guilty to federal charges of conspiring to violate Fielding's civil rights and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors. He was sentenced to two to six years in prison, though he served only four-and-a-half months.\n\nKrogh was disbarred by the Washington State Supreme Court in 1975. He successfully petitioned, after failing to do so in 1977, to be readmitted to the practice of law, based on his recognition and acceptance of his wrongdoing, in 1980.\n\nHe was a partner at Krogh & Leonard in Seattle and currently provides legal, consulting, and mediation services to energy and other clients.\n\nHe and his son Matthew Krogh have written the book \"Integrity: Good People, Bad Choices, and Life Lessons from the White House\" (Public Affairs, 2007, ), and he is a frequent lecturer on the topic of legal ethics, having visited many schools, bar associations and other gatherings of lawyers and judges.\n\nHis brother-in-law is Peter Horton, the director and executive producer of the ABC television series \"Grey's Anatomy\". He currently acts as speaker at events where he talks about his experiences.\n\n"}
{"id": "4487022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4487022", "title": "Face-to-face (philosophy)", "text": "Face-to-face (philosophy)\n\nThe face-to-face relation () is a concept in the French philosopher Emmanuel Lévinas' thought on human sociality. It means that, ethically, people are responsible to one-another in the face-to-face encounter. Specifically, Lévinas says that the human face \"orders and ordains\" us. It calls the subject into “giving and serving” the Other.\n\nLévinas' phenomenological account of the \"face-to-face\" encounter serves as the basis for his ethics and the rest of his philosophy. For Lévinas, \"Ethics is the first philosophy.\" Lévinas argues that the encounter of the Other through the face reveals a certain poverty which forbids a reduction to Sameness and, simultaneously, installs a responsibility for the Other in the Self.\n\nLévinas' account of the face-to-face encounter bears many similarities to Martin Buber's \"I and Thou\" relation. Its influence is also particularly pronounced in Jacques Derrida's ethical writings. (However, some post-structuralist thinkers maintain that Derrida does not agree with Lévinas. See, perhaps most significantly, Martin Hägglund.)\n\nThe major difference between Buber's account of the I and Thou relation and the ethics of the face-to-face encounter is the application of Lévinas' asymmetry towards the other. For Buber, ethical relation meant a \"symmetrical co-presence,\" while Lévinas, on the other hand, considers the relation with the other as something inherently asymmetrical: the other as they appear, the face, gives itself priority to the self, its first demand even before I react to it, love it or kill it, is: \"thou shalt not kill me\". Such a demand for Lévinas is prior to any reaction or any assertion of freedom by a subject. The face of the other in this sense looms above the other person and traces \"where God passes.\" God (the infinite Other) here refers to the God of which one cannot refuse belief in Its history, that is the God who appears in traditional belief and of scripture and not some conceptual God of philosophy or ontotheology.\n\nIn the face-to-face encounter we also see how Lévinas splits ethics from morality. Ethics marks the primary situation of the face-to-face whereas morality comes later, as some kind of, agreed upon or otherwise, set of rules that emerge from the social situation, wherein there are more than just the two people of the face-to-face encounter.\nThis ethical relation for Lévinas is prior to an ontology of nature, instead he refers to it as a meontology, which affirms a meaning beyond Being, a mode of non-Being (Greek: \"me on\").\n\nFace-to-face is similar to Mikhail Bakhtin's ethical concept in art and answerability and Martin Heidegger's concept of the authentic guilt (present/face-to-face) as opposed to an inauthentic other.\n\n"}
{"id": "28153604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28153604", "title": "Feminism in culture", "text": "Feminism in culture\n\nFeminism has affected culture in many ways, and has famously been theorised in relation to culture by Angela McRobbie, Laura Mulvey and others. Timothy Laurie and Jessica Kean have argued that \"one of [feminism's] most important innovations has been to seriously examine the ways women receive popular culture, given that so much pop culture is made by and for men.\" This is reflected in a variety of forms, including literature, music, film and other screen cultures.\n\nWomen's writing came to exist as a separate category of scholarly interest relatively recently. In the West, second-wave feminism prompted a general reevaluation of women's historical contributions, and various academic sub-disciplines, such as Women's history (or herstory) and women's writing (including in English) (a list is available), developed in response to the belief that women's lives and contributions have been underrepresented as areas of scholarly interest. Virginia Blain et al. characterize the growth in interest since 1970 in women's writing as \"powerful\". Much of this early period of feminist literary scholarship was given over to the rediscovery and reclamation of texts written by women. Studies such as Dale Spender's \"Mothers of the Novel\" (1986) and Jane Spencer's \"The Rise of the Woman Novelist\" (1986) were ground-breaking in their insistence that women have always been writing. Commensurate with this growth in scholarly interest, various presses began the task of reissuing long-out-of-print texts. Virago Press began to publish its large list of nineteenth- and early-twentieth-century novels in 1975 and became one of the first commercial presses to join in the project of reclamation. In the 1980s, Pandora Press, responsible for publishing Spender's study, issued a companion line of eighteenth-century novels written by women. More recently, Broadview Press has begun to issue eighteenth- and nineteenth-century works, many hitherto out of print, and the University of Kentucky has a series of republications of early women's novels. There has been commensurate growth in the area of biographical dictionaries of women writers due to a perception, according to one editor, that \"most of our women are not represented in the 'standard' reference books in the field\".\n\nIn the 1960s, the genre of science fiction combined its sensationalism with political and technological critiques of society to produce feminist science fiction. With the advent of feminism, questioning women's roles became fair game to this \"subversive, mind expanding genre\". Two early texts are Ursula K. Le Guin's \"The Left Hand of Darkness\" (1969) and Joanna Russ' \"The Female Man\" (1970). They serve to highlight the socially constructed nature of gender roles by creating utopias that do away with gender. Both authors were also pioneers in feminist criticism of science fiction in the 1960s and '70s, in essays collected in \"The Language of the Night\" (Le Guin, 1979) and \"How To Suppress Women's Writing\" (Russ, 1983). Another major work of feminist science fiction has been \"Kindred\" by Octavia Butler.\n\nThe term \"women's cinema\" usually refers to the work of women film directors. It can also designate the work of other women behind the camera such as cinematographers and screenwriters. Although the participation of women film editors, costume designers, and production designers is usually not considered to be decisive enough to justify the term \"women's cinema\", it does have a large influence on the visual impression of any movie.\n\nIn a film from popular culture although not in women's film, an early reference to the \"feminist movement\" is heard from Katharine Hepburn in the 1942 movie \"Woman of the Year\".\n\nWomen's music (or womyn's music or wimmin's music) is the music by women, for women, and about women. The genre emerged as a musical expression of the second-wave feminist movement as well as the labor, civil rights, and peace movements. The movement was started by lesbians such as Cris Williamson, Meg Christian, and Margie Adam, African-American women activists such as Bernice Johnson Reagon and her group Sweet Honey in the Rock, and peace activist Holly Near. Women's music also refers to the wider industry of women's music that goes beyond the performing artists to include studio musicians, producers, sound engineers, technicians, cover artists, distributors, promoters, and festival organizers who are also women.\n\n\"Riot grrrl\" (or \"riot grrl\") is an underground feminist punk movement that started in the 1990s and is often associated with third-wave feminism (it is sometimes seen as its starting point). It was grounded in the DIY philosophy of punk values. Riot grrrls took an anti-corporate stance of self-sufficiency and self-reliance. Riot grrrls' emphasis on universal female identity and separatism often appears more closely allied with second-wave feminism than with the third wave. Riot grrrl bands often address issues such as rape, domestic abuse, sexuality, and female empowerment. Some bands associated with the movement are Bikini Kill, Bratmobile, Excuse 17, Free Kitten, Heavens to Betsy, Huggy Bear, L7, and Team Dresch. In addition to a music scene, riot grrrl is also a subculture; zines, the DIY ethic, art, political action, and activism are part of the movement. Riot grrrls hold meetings, start chapters, and support and organize women in music.\n\nThe riot grrrl movement sprang out of Olympia, Washington, and Washington, D.C., in the early 1990s. It sought to give women the power to control their voices and artistic expressions. Riot grrrls took a growling double or triple r, placing it in the word \"girl\" as a way to take back the derogatory use of the term.\n\nThe riot grrrls' links to social and political issues are where the beginnings of third-wave feminism can be seen. The music and zine writings are strong examples of \"cultural politics in action, with strong women giving voice to important social issues though an empowered, a female oriented community, many people link the emergence of the third-wave feminism to this time\". The movement encouraged and made \"adolescent girls' standpoints central\", allowing them to express themselves fully.\n\nThe feminist sex wars is a term for the acrimonious debates within the feminist movement in the late 1970s through the 1980s around the issues of feminism, sexuality, sexual representation, pornography, sadomasochism, the role of transwomen in the lesbian community, and other sexual issues. The feminist debate on porn pitted anti-pornography feminism against sex-positive feminism, and parts of the feminist movement were deeply divided by these debates.\n\nAnti-pornography feminists, such as Catharine MacKinnon, Andrea Dworkin, Robin Morgan, and Dorchen Leidholdt, put pornography at the center of a feminist explanation of women's oppression.\n\nSome feminists, such as Diana Russell, Andrea Dworkin, Catharine MacKinnon, Susan Brownmiller, Dorchen Leidholdt, Ariel Levy, Robin Morgan, and Page Mellish, argue that pornography is degrading of women and complicit in violence against women both in its production (whereby, they charge, abuse and exploitation of women performing in pornography is rampant) and in its consumption (whereby, they charge, pornography eroticizes the domination, humiliation, and coercion of women and reinforces sexual and cultural attitudes that are complicit in rape and sexual harassment).\n\nBeginning in the late 1970s, anti-pornography radical feminists formed organizations such as Women Against Pornography and Feminists Fighting Pornography that provided educational events, including slide-shows, speeches, and guided tours of the sex industry in Times Square, New York City, in order to raise awareness of the content of pornography and the sexual subculture in pornography shops and live sex shows. Andrea Dworkin and Robin Morgan began articulating a vehemently anti-porn stance based in radical feminism beginning in 1974 and anti-porn feminist groups, such as Women Against Violence in Pornography and Media in San Francisco, became highly active in various U.S. cities during the late 1970s.\n\nSex-positive feminism is a movement that was formed in order to address issues of women's sexual pleasure, freedom of expression, sex work, and inclusive gender identities. Ellen Willis' 1981 essay, \"Lust Horizons: Is the Women's Movement Pro-Sex?\" is the origin of the term, \"pro-sex feminism\"; the more commonly used variant, \"sex positive feminism\" arose soon after.\n\nAlthough some sex-positive feminists, such as Betty Dodson, were active in the early 1970s, much of sex-positive feminism largely began in the late 1970s and 1980s as a response to the increasing emphasis in radical feminism on anti-pornography activism.\n\nSex-positive feminists are also strongly opposed to radical feminist calls for legislation against pornography, a strategy they decried as censorship, and something that could, they argued, be used by social conservatives to censor the sexual expression of women, gay people, and other sexual minorities. The initial period of intense debate and acrimony between sex-positive and anti-pornography feminists during the early 1980s is often referred to as the feminist sex wars. Other sex-positive feminists became involved not in opposition to other feminists but in direct response to what they saw as patriarchal control of sexuality.\n\nFeminist views on sex work and prostitution vary. Feminist supporters of sex worker rights and decriminalization argue that women's right to control their own bodies and sexuality includes the right to engage in consensual sexual commerce. They also argue that criminalization and social stigmatization of sex work and sex workers only worsens the existing marginalization and victimization that sex workers are often subjected to. On the other hand, feminist opponents of prostitution argue that prostitution is so tangled with forced prostitution, human trafficking, exploitation, and violence as to be inseparable from these ills in practice. They also argue that prostitution and other forms of sex work are inherently a product of patriarchy and sexism, and that the presence even of consensual sex work is harmful to society and women in particular. While feminists across all positions generally agree that direct criminalization of women in prostitution should be ended, there is little or no consensus on much else on the topics of legal approaches to the sex trade, the status of sex workers, or the nature of sex work itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "8294877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8294877", "title": "Gap analysis (conservation)", "text": "Gap analysis (conservation)\n\nGap analysis is a tool used in wildlife conservation to identify gaps in conservation lands (e.g., protected areas and nature reserves) or other wildlands where significant plant and animal species and their habitat or important ecological features occur. \n\nConservation managers or scientists can use it as a basis for providing recommendations to improve the representativeness of nature reserves or the effectiveness of protected areas so that these areas provide the best value for conserving biological diversity. With the information that a gap analysis yields, the boundaries of protected areas may be designed to subsume 'gaps' containing significant populations of wildlife species that can enhance the long-term survival of a larger metapopulation of the species already within the managed or protected area, or to include a diversity of wildlife species or ecosystems that merit protection but are inadequately represented in an existing protected area network. Gap assessments can be done using the geographic information system: land maps that delineate topography, biological and geological features (forest cover, plains, rivers, etc.), boundaries, land ownership and use are overlaid with the distribution of wildlife species. How much of the species' distribution fall within or without the conservation lands, or within a highly exploited area etc. can be identified.\nAt its simplest, a gap analysis is an assessment of the extent to which a protected area system meets protection goals set by a nation or region to represent its biological diversity. Gap analyses can vary from simple exercises based on a spatial comparison of biodiversity with existing protected areas to complex studies that need detailed data gathering and analysis, mapping and use of software decision packages. All gap analyses should consider a range of different “gaps” in a protected area network:\nRepresentation gaps: either no representations of a particular species or ecosystem in any protected area, or not enough examples of the species or ecosystem represented to ensure long-term protection.\n\nEcological gaps: while the species or ecosystem occurs in the protected area system, occurrence is either of inadequate ecological condition, or the protected area(s) fail to address species\" movements or specific ecological conditions needed for long-term survival or ecosystem functioning.\n\nManagement gaps: protected areas exist but management regimes (management objectives, governance types, or management effectiveness) do not provide full security for particular species or ecosystems given local conditions.\n"}
{"id": "12285804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12285804", "title": "Giri choco", "text": "Giri choco\n\nMen generally reciprocate by giving women cookies and other gifts on White Day, celebrated on March 14.\n\n"}
{"id": "37321501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37321501", "title": "Hardcore Pawn: Chicago", "text": "Hardcore Pawn: Chicago\n\nHardcore Pawn: Chicago was an American reality television series on truTV. A spin-off of \"Hardcore Pawn\", the series follows the day-to-day operations of the Royal Pawn Shop located in Chicago, Illinois, at 428 S. Clark Street across from the Metropolitan Correctional Center near Chicago's Financial District.\n\nOn August 15, 2012, truTV ordered 18 half-hour episodes for the first season which first premiered on January 1, 2013. In January 2014, truTV announced that the show had been canceled.\n\nIn 2014, the location was used on the television show, \"Chicago PD\", with actor \"Elias Koteas\" entering the shop to ask a pawnbroker about a case.\n\n\n\nA total of 18 episodes have been broadcast.\n\n"}
{"id": "53451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53451", "title": "Hegemony", "text": "Hegemony\n\nHegemony (, () or ) is the political, economic, or military predominance or control of one state over others. In ancient Greece (8th century BC – 6th century AD), hegemony denoted the politico-military dominance of a city-state over other city-states. The dominant state is known as the \"hegemon\".\n\nIn the 19th century, hegemony came to denote the \"Social or cultural predominance or ascendancy; predominance by one group within a society or milieu\". Later, it could be used to mean \"a group or regime which exerts undue influence within a society\". Also, it could be used for the geopolitical and the cultural predominance of one country over others, from which was derived \"hegemonism\", as in the idea that the Great Powers meant to establish European hegemony over Asia and Africa.\n\nIn international relations theory, hegemony denotes a situation of (i) great material asymmetry in favour of one state, who has (ii) enough military power to systematically defeat any potential contester in the system, (iii) controls the access to raw materials, natural resources, capital and markets, (iv) has competitive advantages in the production of value added goods, (v) generates an accepted ideology reflecting this status quo; and (vi) is functionally differentiated from other states in the system, being expected to provide certain public goods such as security, or commercial and financial stability.\n\nThe Marxist theory of cultural hegemony, associated particularly with Antonio Gramsci, is the idea that the ruling class can manipulate the value system and mores of a society, so that their view becomes the world view (\"Weltanschauung\"): in Terry Eagleton's words, \"Gramsci normally uses the word hegemony to mean the ways in which a governing power wins consent to its rule from those it subjugates\". In contrast to authoritarian rule, cultural hegemony \"is hegemonic only if those affected by it also consent to and struggle over its common sense\". \n\nIn cultural imperialism, the leader state dictates the internal politics and the societal character of the subordinate states that constitute the hegemonic sphere of influence, either by an internal, sponsored government or by an external, installed government.\n\nFrom the post-classical Latin word \"hegemonia\" (from 1513 or earlier) from the Greek word ἡγεμονία \"hēgemonía\", meaning \"authority, rule, political supremacy\", related to the word ἡγεμών \"hēgemōn\" \"leader\".\n\nIn the Greco–Roman world of 5th century BC European classical antiquity, the city-state of Sparta was the \"hegemon\" of the Peloponnesian League (6th to 4th centuries BC) and King Philip II of Macedon was the hegemon of the League of Corinth in 337 BC (a kingship he willed to his son, Alexander the Great). Likewise, the role of Athens within the short-lived Delian League (478–404 BC) was that of a \"hegemon\". Ancient historians such as Xenophon and Ephorus were the first who used the term in its modern sense.\n\nIn Ancient East Asia, Chinese hegemony existed during the Spring and Autumn period (c. 770–480 BC), when the weakened rule of the Eastern Zhou Dynasty led to the relative autonomy of the Five Hegemons (\"Ba\" in Chinese [霸]). They were appointed by feudal lord conferences, and thus were nominally obliged to uphold the imperium of the Zhou Dynasty over the subordinate states.\n\n1st and 2nd century Europe was dominated by the hegemonic peace of the \"Pax Romana\". It was instituted by the emperor Augustus, and was accompanied by a series of brutal military campaigns.\n\nFrom the 7th century to the 12th century, the Umayyad Caliphate and later Abbasid Caliphate dominated the vast territories they governed, with other states like the Byzantine Empire paying tribute.\n\nIn 7th century India, Harsha, ruler of a large empire in northern India from AD 606 to 647, brought most of the north under his hegemony. He preferred not to rule as a central government, but left \"conquered kings on their thrones and contenting himself with tribute and homage.\"\n\nFrom the late 9th to the early 11th century, the empire developed by Charlemagne achieved hegemony in Europe, with dominance over France, Italy and Burgundy.\n\nDuring the 14th century, the Crown of Aragon became the hegemon in the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nIn \"The Politics of International Political Economy\", Jayantha Jayman writes \"If we consider the Western dominated global system from as early as the 15th century, there have been several hegemonic powers and contenders that have attempted to create the world order in their own images.\" He lists several contenders for historical hegemony.\n\nPhillip IV tried to restore the Habsburg dominance but, by the middle of the 17th century \"Spain's pretensions to hegemony (in Europe) had definitely and irremediably failed.\"\nIn late 16th and 17th-century Holland, the Dutch Republic's mercantilist dominion was an early instance of commercial hegemony, made feasible with the development of wind power for the efficient production and delivery of goods and services. This, in turn, made possible the Amsterdam stock market and concomitant dominance of world trade.\n\nIn France, King Louis XIV (1638–1715) and (Emperor) Napoleon I (1799–1815) attempted French true hegemony via economic, cultural and military domination of most of Continental Europe. However, Jeremy Black writes that, because of Britain, France \"was unable to enjoy the benefits\" of this hegemony.\n\nAfter the defeat and exile of Napoleon, hegemony largely passed to the British Empire, which became the largest empire in history, with Queen Victoria (1837–1901) ruling over one-quarter of the world's land and population at its zenith. Like the Dutch, the British Empire was primarily seaborne; many British possessions were located around the rim of the Indian Ocean, as well as numerous islands in the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea. Britain also controlled the Indian subcontinent and large portions of Africa.\n\nIn Europe, Germany, rather than Britain, may have been the strongest power after 1871, but Samuel Newland writes:Bismarck defined the road ahead as … no expansion, no push for hegemony in Europe. Germany was to be the strongest power in Europe but without being a hegemon. … His basic axioms were first, no conflict among major powers in Central Europe; and second, German security without German hegemony.\"\n\nThe early 20th century, like the late 19th century was characterized by multiple Great Powers but no global hegemon. World War I weakened the strongest of the Imperial Powers, Great Britain, but also strengthened the United States and, to a lesser extent, Japan. Both of these states' governments pursued policies to expand their regional spheres of influence, the US in Latin America and Japan in East Asia. France, the UK, Italy, the Soviet Union and later Nazi Germany (1933–1945) all either maintained imperialist policies based on spheres of influence or attempted to conquer territory but none achieved the status of a global hegemonic power.\n\nAfter the Second World War, the United Nations was established and the five strongest global powers (China, France, the UK, the US, and the USSR) were given permanent seats on the U.N. Security Council, the organization's most powerful decision making body. Following the war, the US and the USSR were the two strongest global powers and this created a bi-polar power dynamic in international affairs, commonly referred to as the Cold War. The hegemonic conflict was ideological, between communism and capitalism, as well as geopolitical, between the Warsaw Pact countries (1955–1991) and NATO/SEATO/CENTO countries (1949–present). During the Cold War both hegemons competed against each other directly (during the arms race) and indirectly (via proxy wars). The result was that many countries, no matter how remote, were drawn into the conflict when it was suspected that their governments' policies might destabilize the balance of power. Reinhard Hildebrandt calls this a period of \"dual-hegemony\", where \"two dominant states have been stabilizing their European spheres of influence \"against and alongside each other\".\" \nProxy wars became battle grounds between forces supported either directly or indirectly by the hegemonic powers and included the Korean War, the Laotian Civil War, the Arab–Israeli conflict, the Vietnam War, the Afghan War, the Angolan Civil War, and the Central American Civil Wars.\n\nFollowing the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991 the United States was the world's sole hegemonic power.\n\nVarious perspectives on whether the US was or continues to be a hegemon have been presented since the end of the Cold War. The American political scientists John Mearsheimer and Joseph Nye have argued that the US is not a true hegemon because it has neither the financial nor the military resources to impose a proper, formal, global hegemony. On the other hand, Anna Cornelia Beyer, in her book about counter-terrorism, argues that global governance is a product of American leadership and describes it as hegemonic governance.\n\nThe French Socialist politician Hubert Védrine in 1999 described the US as a hegemonic hyperpower, because of its unilateral military actions worldwide.\n\nPentagon strategist Edward Luttwak, in \"The Grand Strategy of the Roman Empire\", outlined three stages, with hegemonic being the first, followed by imperial. In his view the transformation proved to be fatal and eventually led to the fall of the Roman Empire. His book to Washington to continue the present hegemonic strategy and refrain from establishing an empire.\n\nIn 2006, author Zhu Zhiqun claimed that China is already on the way to becoming the world hegemon and that the focus should be on how a peaceful transfer of power can be achieved between the US and China, but has faced opposition to this claim.\n\nIn the historical writing of the 19th century, the denotation of \"hegemony\" extended to describe the predominance of one country upon other countries; and, by extension, \"hegemonism\" denoted the Great Power politics (c. 1880s – 1914) for establishing hegemony (indirect imperial rule), that then leads to a definition of imperialism (direct foreign rule). In the early 20th century, in the field of international relations, the Italian Marxist philosopher Antonio Gramsci developed the theory of cultural domination (an analysis of economic class) to include social class; hence, the philosophic and sociologic theory of cultural hegemony analysed the social norms that established the social structures (social and economic classes) with which the ruling class establish and exert cultural dominance to impose their \"Weltanschauung\" (world view)—justifying the social, political, and economic \"status quo\"—as natural, inevitable, and beneficial to every social class, rather than as artificial social constructs beneficial solely to the ruling class.\n\nFrom the Gramsci analysis derived the political science denotation of hegemony as \"leadership\"; thus, the historical example of Prussia as the militarily and culturally predominant province of the German Empire (Second Reich 1871–1918); and the personal and intellectual predominance of Napoleon Bonaparte upon the French Consulate (1799–1804). Contemporarily, in \"Hegemony and Socialist Strategy\" (1985), Ernesto Laclau and Chantal Mouffe defined hegemony as a political relationship of power wherein a sub-ordinate society (collectivity) perform social tasks that are culturally unnatural and not beneficial to them, but that are in exclusive benefit to the imperial interests of the hegemon, the superior, ordinate power; hegemony is a military, political, and economic relationship that occurs as an articulation within political discourse. Beyer analysed the contemporary hegemony of the United States at the example of the Global War on Terrorism and presented the mechanisms and processes of American exercise of power in 'hegemonic governance'.\n\nAcademics have argued that in the praxis of hegemony, imperial dominance is established by means of cultural imperialism, whereby the leader state (hegemon) dictates the internal politics and the societal character of the subordinate states that constitute the hegemonic sphere of influence, either by an internal, sponsored government or by an external, installed government. The imposition of the hegemon's way of life—an imperial \"lingua franca\" and bureaucracies (social, economic, educational, governing)—transforms the concrete imperialism of direct military domination into the abstract power of the \"status quo\", indirect imperial domination. Critics have said that this view is \"deeply condescending\" and \"treats people ... as blank slates on which global capitalism's moving finger writes its message, leaving behind another cultural automaton as it moves on.\"\n\nSuggested examples of cultural imperialism include the latter-stage Spanish and British Empires, the 19th- and 20th-century Reichs of unified Germany (1871–1945), and by the end of the 20th century, the United States.\n\nCulturally, hegemony also is established by means of language, specifically the imposed \"lingua franca\" of the hegemon (leader state), which then is the official source of information for the people of the society of the sub-ordinate state. Writing on language and power, Andrea Mayr says, \"As a practice of power, hegemony operates largely through language.\" In contemporary society, an example of the use of language in this way is in the way Western countries set up educational systems in African countries mediated by Western languages.\n\nAnother example of this is found in the way language helped \"diminish the traditions\" of African Americans in the US.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12876237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12876237", "title": "Howard Rachlin", "text": "Howard Rachlin\n\nHoward Rachlin (born 1935) is an American psychologist and the founder of teleological behaviorism. He is Emeritus Research Professor of Psychology, Department of Psychology, State University of New York, Stony Brook (SUNY, Stony Brook, New York 11794, USA. His initial work was in the quantitative analysis of operant behavior in pigeons, on which he worked with William M. Baum, developing ideas from Richard Herrnstein's matching law. He subsequently became one of the founders of Behavioral Economics. His current research focuses on patterns of choice over time and how those patterns affect self-control (on which he worked with George Ainslie), including cooperation over time. His interests in Behavioral Economics include: decision making, the prisoner's dilemma, addiction, and gambling. He was one of the first board members of the Society for Quantitative Analysis of Behavior.\n\n"}
{"id": "21518923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21518923", "title": "Human Dimension Implementation Meeting", "text": "Human Dimension Implementation Meeting\n\nThe Human Dimension Implementation Meeting is a human rights and democracy conference held by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on an annual basis in Warsaw (Poland).\n\nThe two-week conference is attended by some 1000 government representatives, international experts, non-governmental organizations, and human rights activists. Organized every autumn by the Warsaw-based OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR), the meeting is considered to be Europe's largest human rights conference.\n\nThe Human Dimension Implementation Meeting (HDIM) was established in the early 1990s to create a forum for participating States of the OSCE to discuss the implementation of the \"human dimension\" commitments they have adopted by consensus at prior Summits and Ministerial Meetings. In OSCE parlance, the term \"human dimension\" describes the set of norms and activities\nrelated to human rights, the rule of law, and democracy that are regarded within the OSCE\nas one of the three pillars of its comprehensive security concept, along with the politico-military\nand the economic and environmental dimensions.\n\nOne of the distinct features setting the HDIM apart from other high-level human rights conferences is its openness to the participation of non-governmental organizations (NGOs). NGOs can participate in the conference on an equal footing with government representatives. For NGOs from states where civil society is weak and constrained, the HDIM can be one of the few opportunities they have to make their voices heard before an international audience.\n\nThe plenary sessions of the conference are supposed to review the progress made over the past year by participating States and remaining shortcomings with respect to realizing their human dimension commitments.\n\nThe agenda is set by the OSCE's Permanent Council. Regular sessions cover the full range of OSCE commitments related to human rights and democracy. Three days are reserved for more in-depth discussions of three different topics selected by the Permanent Council every year.\n\nOn the sidelines of the HDIM, dozens of side events are organized by participating delegations and NGOs.\n\n"}
{"id": "41904209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41904209", "title": "Indicator vector", "text": "Indicator vector\n\nIn mathematics, the indicator vector or characteristic vector or incidence vector of a subset \"T\" of a set \"S\" is the vector formula_1 such that formula_2 if formula_3 and formula_4 if formula_5\n\nIf \"S\" is countable and its elements are numbered so that formula_6, then formula_7 where formula_8 if formula_9 and formula_10 if formula_11\n\nTo put it more simply, the indicator vector of \"T\" is a vector with one element for each element in \"S\", with that element being one if the corresponding element of \"S\" is in \"T\", and zero if it is not.\n\nAn indicator vector is a special (countable) case of an indicator function.\n\nIf \"S\" is the set of natural numbers formula_12, and \"T\" is some subset of the natural numbers, then the indicator vector is naturally a single point in the Cantor space: that is, an infinite sequence of 1's and 0's, indicating membership, or lack thereof, in \"T\". Such vectors commonly occur in the study of arithmetical hierarchy.\n"}
{"id": "11913649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11913649", "title": "Indra's net", "text": "Indra's net\n\nIndra's net (also called Indra's jewels or Indra's pearls, Sanskrit \"Indrajāla\") is a metaphor used to illustrate the concepts of Śūnyatā (emptiness), pratītyasamutpāda (dependent origination), and interpenetration in Buddhist philosophy.\n\nThe metaphor was developed by the Mahayana school in the 3rd century \"Avatamsaka Sutra\" and later by the Huayan school between the 6th and 8th centuries.\n\n\"Indra's net\" is an infinitely large net of cords owned by the Vedic deva Indra, which hangs over his palace on Mount Meru, the axis mundi of Buddhist and Hindu cosmology. In this metaphor, Indra's net has a multifaceted jewel at each vertex, and each jewel is reflected in all of the other jewels. \n\nIn the Huayan school of Chinese Buddhism, which follows the Avatamsaka Sutra, the image of \"Indra's net\" is used to describe the interconnectedness of the universe. Francis H Cook describes Indra's net thus:\n\nThe Buddha in the Avatamsaka Sutra's 30th book states a similar idea:\n\nBook 30 of the sutra is named \"The Incalculable\" because it focuses on the idea of the infinitude of the universe and as Cleary notes, concludes that \"the cosmos is unutterably infinite, and hence so is the total scope and detail of knowledge and activity of enlightenment.\" In another part of the sutra, the Buddhas' knowledge of all phenomena is referred to by this metaphor:\n\nThey [Buddhas] know all phenomena come from interdependent origination.\nThey know all world systems exhaustively. They know all the\ndifferent phenomena in all worlds, interrelated in Indra's net.\n\nThe metaphor of Indra's net of jewels plays an essential role in the Chinese Huayan school, where it is used to describe the interpenetration (Wylie: \"zung-'jug\"; Sanskrit: yuganaddha) of microcosmos and macrocosmos. The Huayan text entitled \"Calming and Contemplation in the Five Teachings of Huayan\" (Huayan wujiao zhiguan 華嚴五教止觀, T1867) attributed to the first Huayan patriarch Dushun (557–640) gives an extended overview of this concept:\n\nThe manner in which all dharmas interpenetrate is like an imperial net of\ncelestial jewels extending in all directions infinitely, without limit. … As for the imperial net of heavenly jewels, it is known as Indra’s Net, a net which is made entirely of jewels. Because of the clarity of the jewels, they are all reflected in and enter into each other, ad infinitum. Within each jewel, simultaneously, is reflected the whole net. Ultimately, nothing comes or goes. If we now turn to the southwest, we can pick one particular jewel and\nexamine it closely. This individual jewel can immediately reflect the image\nof every other jewel. \nAs is the case with this jewel, this is furthermore the case with all the rest of the jewels–each and every jewel simultaneously and immediately reflects each and every other jewel, ad infinitum. The image of each of these limitless jewels is within one jewel, appearing brilliantly. None of the other jewels interfere with this. When one sits within one jewel, one is simultaneously sitting in all the infinite jewels in all ten directions. How is this so? Because within each jewel are present all jewels. If all jewels are present within each jewel, it is also the case that if you sit in one jewel you sit in all jewels at the same time. The inverse is also understood in the same way. Just as one goes into one jewel and thus enters every other jewel while never leaving this one jewel, so too one enters any jewel while never leaving this particular jewel. \n\nThe Huayan Patriarch Fazang (643–712) used the golden statue of a lion to demonstrate the Huayan vision of interpenetration to empress Wu:\n\nAccording to Rajiv Malhotra, the earliest reference to a net belonging to Indra is in the Atharva Veda (c. 1000 BCE). Verse 8.8.6. says: \nAnd verse 8.8.8. says:\nThe net was one of the weapons of the sky-god Indra, used to snare and entangle enemies. The net also signifies magic or illusion. According to Teun Goudriaan, Indra is conceived in the Rg Veda as a great magician, tricking his enemies with their own weapons, thereby continuing human life and prosperity on earth. Indra became associated with earthly magic, as reflected in the term \"indrajalam\", \"Indra's Net\", the name given to the occult practices magicians. According to Goudriaan, the term \"indrajalam\" seems to originate in verse 8.8.8 from the Atharva Veda, of which Goudriaan gives a different translation:\nAccording to Goudriaan, the speaker pretends to use a weapon of cosmical size. The net being referred to here \nIn \"Gödel, Escher, Bach\" (1979), Douglas Hofstadter uses Indra's net as a metaphor for the complex interconnected networks formed by relationships between objects in a system—including social networks, the interactions of particles, and the \"symbols\" that stand for ideas in a brain or intelligent computer.\n\nIn \"Vermeer's Hat\" (2007), a history book written by Timothy Brook, the author uses the metaphor:\n\nWriting in \"The Spectator\", Sarah Burton explains that Brook uses the metaphor, and its interconnectedness, \nIn \"Indra's Net\" (2014), Rajiv Malhotra uses the image of Indra's net as a metaphor for\n\n"}
{"id": "31487496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31487496", "title": "Infant oral mutilation", "text": "Infant oral mutilation\n\nInfant oral mutilation (IOM) is the dangerous and sometimes fatal traditional or conventional dental malpractice that has been performed for decades in many areas of Africa and in underdeveloped countries.\n\nTypically, a parent may take a sick child to a traditional healer, who will look in the child's mouth and attribute the illness to \"tooth worms\". The healer will point out the small, white, developing tooth buds as being \"tooth worms\", and then dig the \"worms\" out of the gums without anaesthesia using a non-sterile tool such as a hot or sharpened nail, a bicycle spoke, or a knitting needle. The eye teeth are often the ones pointed out, as they are more prominent. The tooth buds are then shown to the parent, their small, milky appearance somewhat resembling worms.\n\nThis practice inflicts pain and suffering on a child who may already be sick (or who may be teething), and in some cases it is carried out on a healthy child in a bid to prevent illness. The procedure may lead to shock, and loss of blood may lead to anaemia. The unhygienic methods can cause blood infections, tetanus, pass on HIV/AIDS, and can on occasion be fatal. The underlying permanent tooth buds can be damaged or eradicated, causing malformations and long term crowding. In addition, the existing illness may not receive the medical attention necessary.\n\nThere is published evidence of IOM occurring in Chad, D.R.Congo, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda. It has also been observed in African immigrants now living in France, Israel, USA, Australia, Norway, New Zealand and the UK. A Literature analysis of the above published papers with full references is available online.\n\n"}
{"id": "26285107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26285107", "title": "Intima Virtual Base", "text": "Intima Virtual Base\n\nIntima Virtual Base is an institute for contemporary arts founded by the director and artist Igor Štromajer. It is an institution dealing with media, contemporary performing arts, radio and sound projects, performance and theory, body-related theory, music, dance, choreography, and computer graphics. In 2001 Igor Štromajer and Brane Zorman embarked on projects that they named Ballettikka Internetikka.\n\nBallettika Internetikka is a series of projects which began in 2001 during the time when the internet was only a small part of peoples lives. It explores wireless internet ballet performances combined with tactics from the guerrilla performances and mobile live internet broadcasting strategies. The projects began in 2002 and they are still happening around the world from Germany, Norway and Italy, to Russia, Antarctica, Hong Kong and Japan.\n\nThe event was exploring how ballet can be performed with a series of still images via live Webcam video capture and an automatic change of the images every 20 seconds on the Net. The choreography was based on the HTML and JavaScript codes enhanced with sound/music. It explored the movements of a dancer’s body and how a ballet story can be told, shown and danced with a series of still images. Anything that the dancer was doing between those 20 seconds was not shown to the viewers.\nVideo of Performance\n\nThe second phase of the project took place in the building of the Bolshoi Ballet in Moscow, Russia, exactly one year after Part One – net.ballet. Requests to perform Ballettika Internettika on stage were sent to the Bolshoi Ballet company. There was no reply so on 28 March 2002 Igor Štromajer and Brane Zorman entered the Bolshoi Theatre from the main entrance with a rack sack on their backs and valid tickets for that night’s performance. They were asked to leave their sacks before entering, but that was impossible since all the equipment that where needed for the live web show was in there.\n\nPlan B was now their only way to perform live, they entered from a small window in the left wing of the building and they performed the ballet.net in an abandoned part of the cellar. The illegal action was classed as an invasion; everything was planned, watches were synchronized, hi-tech mobile and wireless equipment for the broadcast were used along with portable computers, mp3 audio systems and mini digital cameras. Štromajer says:\n\"It's the top place for dancing and we wanted to demystify it. I wanted to dance there as a non-dancer and was dancing there in the name of all the ballet dancers world-wide: all of them who cannot dance in the Bolshoi, but would like to, because the Bolshoi is an international symbol for classical ballet.\"\n\nŠtromajer says: ‘‘The new general director of the Bolshoi theatre, Anatoliy Iksanov, told the press in Moscow that he would like to include new dynamics into his theatre. Well, Ballettikka would certainly be an opportunity for him.’’\nVideo of Performance\n\nAfter establishing the fact that they can dance and broadcast themselves on the Net, Igor Štromajer and Brane Zorman decided to replace their human bodies with robots. The next project took place in the International Theatre of Bergen in Norway. The project came to life with help and collaboration from the choreographer Hooman Sharifi.\n\nVideo of performance\n\nThe project was premiered in Moderna galerija Ljubljana – Slovene Museum of Contemporary arts & Television Slovenia Kultura – Lijubjana, Slovenia on December 2003. Štromajer and Zorman brought together two Moscow acts; one was the Internet Ballet and their illegal invasion of Moscow’s Bolshoi Theatre and the second one was the Chechen terrorist act in the Dubrovka Theatre in October 2002.\n\nThe condensed version of Ballettikka RealVideo Internettikka consists of a video with Morse-code dramaturgy. After the terrorist attack, Štromajer realised that his invasion in the Bolshoi theatre could have easily ended up being a terrorist attack instead of an artistic piece. The two acts were sharing common methods and actions; the homicidal – suicidal terrorist act represents the ritual materialization of the intimate sacrifice of the one’s own body, as well as of those of others, while ballet represents a strategic sacrifice of the dancer’s body as it is honed into a perfectly functioning machine. Brian Jenkins says: ‘‘Terrorism is theatre’’ but in the end all the artistic standards are left on the side and the only thing that is left is tactics, both in art and terrorism. Ballettikka RealVideo Internettikka makes an input to the misunderstanding of contemporary postmodern terrorism and democracy’s fear of extremist dedication; it symbolizes a fascination with criticism of the system and with appeals to the beauty of dying. The Chechen terrorist Barayev said: ‘‘We have come here to die!’’ as him and his group disrupted the Moscow performance of the musical Nord-Ost. \"We have come here to dance,\" wrote Štromajer, as an Internet link was launched with the Bolshoi Theatre. The wireless ballet began, seven months before Barayev died.\n\nVideo of Performance\n\nThe project was located on the Ljubljana Beltway - Motorway Ring in south Slovenia. On 4 October 2004 Stromajer and Zorman were manipulating two remote-controlled toy-ballet robots with wireless cameras and broadcasting live video and audio signal GPRS/GSM mobile phones on the internet. Everything was set up on a car, laptops, speakers and mobile phones. Two video cameras were attached to the remote controlled cars and they were broadcasting the movements of the ballet robot. The project in Ljubljana Beltway opened the doors for the following project in Italy.\nVideo of Performance\n\nOn 13 November 2004 Igor Štromajer and Brane Zorman were ready to act out the next project. Based on the previous project Ballettikka Internettikka – Auto Mobillikka they took it a step further where this time they made the robots perform in the kitchen of the famous Teatro Alla Scala were bio-food for artists is prepared. The two artists once again they used the two remote controlled cars with the two web cameras and they broadcast the toy robot while he was ballet dancing in the Kitchen. The toy robot was transformed into a guerrilla-ballet dancer. Hi-tech mobile and wireless equipment were used for the invasion and the broadcasting once again.\n\nDancing an illegal wireless roboballet in the kitchen of the Teatro alla Scala was a challenge to the Intima Virtual Base, as a result the preparations have been taken seriously, safety procedures have been taken, and the previous experience from the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow has been a great help.\n\nIn November 2004, Teatro alla Scala was temporarily closed for the public due to renovation works; therefore all the performances took place at the Teatro degli Arcimboldi. So the project was not affected by any means from the theatre management.\nVideo of Performance\n\nPeople's Internet Ballet was performed on Sunday, 9 July 2006 at 9 PM GMT+1 (Berlin/Paris local time) at, and secretly broadcast (as six one-minute live streaming videos) from the Basement Toilet in Volksbühne at Rosa-Luxemburg Square in Berlin, Germany. Here is a description of the performance:\n\nVolksNetBallet was broadcast in the form of six one-minute streaming videos, almost live, with only two minutes delay. It means that the visitors could see and hear in six steps what had just happened only two minutes earlier during the VolksNetBallet in Volksbühne Basement Toilet. All six videos were edited live in-camera, using only STOP and REC functions, then immediately converted to Real Media files using Real Producer, and finally, transferred to the server for viewing.\n\nThe artists utilized low-tech mobile and wireless equipment for the invasion and live broadcast: a public unprotected wireless internet connection point (wLAN), available for free at the Rosa-Luxemburg Square in Berlin (ID: Helmut22; signal strength in the basement of Volksbühne: 2/5), free RealProducer (version 11.0) and Live LE software for streaming video and audio live manipulation.\nBallettikka Internettikka: VolksNetBallet took place on the very same evening and at the very same time as another huge people's festivity—the final match of the World Soccer Cup 2006, which also took place in Germany.\n\nDancing a wireless people's internet ballet in Volksbühne Berlin represented a challenge to the Intima Virtual Base and all the collaborators, therefore, the preparations were taken seriously, safety measures were calculated, and the previous experiences from the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow, La Scala in Milan and The National Theatre in Belgrade were used.\n\nThe project was supported by The Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia.\nVideo of Performance\n\nRenminNetBallet is an re-enactment/remake/reinterpretation of the VolksNetBallet guerrilla net ballet action (Berlin 2006) and was performed as a part of the Microwave Festival - Media x Activism Poster Conference in Hong Kong on Saturday 17 November 2007 at 4PM Hong Kong Standard Time (GMT+8). It took place in the Hong Kong City Hall toilet for disabled persons and presented in the Innocentre, Hong Kong.\nThe artists used a Mac Book Pro laptop computer and low-technology mobile and wireless equipment: Mini DV cam, MP3 players, remote controlled toy-robot etc.\nVideo of Performance\n\nStromajer and Zorman furtively performed a new internet ballet—Ballettikka Internettikka: Stattikka—as a part of the Tele-Plateau - Performative Installation in Hellerau, Dresden, broadcasting live from the roof of the targeted skyscraper in Hong Kong (Lippo Centre 2), in front of the dense cityscape, using a commercial Silverlit R/C Robot Program-a-BOT, dancing an Almost Static But Still Transitive Net Ballet for 30 minutes in the Hong Kong dawn. This happened on Saturday 17 November 2007 at 10 PM Central European Time (GMT+1) and lasted for 30 mins. \nVideo of Performance\n\nIt took place on Monday 24 March 2008. At the same time that the official 2008 Olympic Torch was being kindled by the light of the Sun (Olympia, Greece), Stromajer & Zorman digitally ignited a robot with computer software.\nVideo of Performance\n\nHydraullikka took place at Plaza del Rey, Madrid, on 10 May 2008. It consisted of two robots being placed in a hydraulic press machine where they were crushed, pressed, and ground together to symbolise love and togetherness.\nVideo of Performance\n\nIntermenttikka was performed as part of the Digital Playground 2008, secretly broadcasting live from the target construction site in Seoul, performing a robotic ballet after sunrise. It consisted of a Live Internet Broadcast from Seoul, Korea on Tuesday 22 July 2008 at 6 AM Korean Time (GMT/UTC+9). The artists covered the commercial Silverlit R/C toy-robot with cement and placed it into reinforced ferroconcrete foundations of the target construction site (the rising Dongdaemun (Great East Gate) / Tongdaemun Market), to stay there forever.\n\nThe interred robot was equipped with a QSTARZ BT-Q818 extreme GPS transmitter which was broadcasting the signal until the transmitter run out of batteries. The signal was edited live by the computer software.\n\nFrom 22 July to 24 August the Ballettikka Internettikka Intermenttikka project (including the selected history of Ballettikka Internettikka since 2001) was exhibited in TMCA (Total Museum of Contemporary Art) in Seoul, as a part of the Digital Playground 2008 - \"Hack the City!\" exhibition curated by Nathalie Boseul Shin.\n\nVideo of Performance\n\nNorddikka was a live Internet Broadcast from Svalbard, Arctic Ocean on Wednesday 31 December 2008 at 23:55 PM Central European Time (GMT/UTC+1). 0Svalbard is a cluster of islands) in the Arctic Ocean north of mainland Europe, about midway between mainland Norway and the North Pole, and forms the northernmost part of Norway and the northernmost lands of Europe.\n\nThe largest island is Spitsbergen (37,673 km2 or 14,550 square miles), and the largest settlement is Longyearbyen (approximately 2,075 inhabitants, the administrative centre of Svalbard, located on Spitsbergen).\nSvalbard lies far north of the Arctic Circle. In Longyearbyen, the polar night lasts from 26 October to 15 February. From 12 November to the end of January there is civil polar night, a continuous period without any twilight bright enough to permit outdoor activities in the absence of artificial light.\n\nStromajer and Zorman conducted and monitored the leaving of the robot in the deep snow of the white spaciousness of the Arctic glacier (Olav V Land, Svalbard) on New Year's Eve. They were located in their Control Centre in Ljubljana (CCL), Slovenia.\n\nReceiving instructions from CCL, two executants, Nils Are Mohn and Åsmund Njøs, keepers of the Indian research base on Svalbard (NCAOR - Indian National Research Centre; opened in July 2008 in collaboration with the Norwegian Polar Institute, as one of the twelve international permanent research bases in Svalbard), abandoned the robot on the glacier.\n\nMohn and Njøs started their journey to the foothills of the Olav V Land glacier seven minutes before midnight. They were in permanent video contact (UMTS webcam) with the CCL. Exactly at midnight (Central European Time/also local Svalbard time), when the year 2008 turned into 2009, they reached Point Zero (78N, 17E) and prepared a platform for the robot, using a snow shovel. They also thrust the Slovenian national flag into the snow next to the robot. The action was performed in the complete dark (civil polar night) and the Live broadcast lasted 10 minutes, starting 31 December 2008 at 23:55, ending 1 January 2009 at 00:05.\n\nVideo of Performance\n\nNipponnikka was done on the Japanese island of Minami Torishima on 23 November 2009, at sunrise and was a Live Internet Broadcast. Stromajer and Zorman abandoned two robots in the Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe act of abandoning is the act of liberation: if you love something, set it free! Štromajer and Zorman therefore abandoned two of their Silverlit R/C Program-a-BOT robots (€36 in retail) in the loneliness of the Pacific Ocean, at the easternmost point of Japan, the Land of the Rising Sun—two suns, one for each robot!\n\nMinami Torishima is an isolated island in the north-western Pacific Ocean. The hottest place in Japan, it is the easternmost Japanese territory, lying some 1,848 kilometres southeast of Tokyo. It takes about 45 minutes to walk around the triangular-shaped, low-lying island which has an area of 1.2 square kilometres. The island is unusual because the closer to the coast, the higher the elevation: the central area of the island is 1 metre below sea level whilst the coast is about 5 to 8 metres above. There is an airport and a radio station on the island. The island is presently used for weather observation, but little else.\n\nVideo of Performance\n\nIgor wants to complete one more project with the robots. He plans on travelling to Antarctica to abandon another robot. He is abandoning the next robot in Antarctica as he wants the robots to be at every point on a compass. He has already placed them in the north and east, however, he said he will not be leaving one in the west, for unclear reasons. Igor said this isn’t the end of Ballettikka Internettikka.\n\n"}
{"id": "29820388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29820388", "title": "Judaism and politics", "text": "Judaism and politics\n\nThe relationship between Judaism and politics is a historically complex subject, and has evolved over time concurrently with both changes within Jewish society and religious practice, and changes in the secular societies that Jews live in. In particular, Jewish political thought can be split into four major eras: biblical (prior to Roman rule), rabbinic (from roughly the 100 BCE to 600 CE), medieval (from roughly 600 CE to 1800 CE), and modern (18th century to the present day). \n\nPolitical leadership is a common topic in the Hebrew Bible, and several different political models are described across its canon, usually composed of some combination of tribal federation, monarchy, a priestly theocracy, and rule by prophets. Political organization during the Rabbinic and Medieval generally involved semi-autonomous rule by Jewish councils and courts (with council membership often composed purely of rabbis) that would govern the community and act as representatives to secular authorities outside the Jewish community. Beginning in the 19th century, and coinciding with the expansion of the political rights accorded to individual Jews in European society, Jews would affiliate with and contribute theory to a wide range of political movements and philosophies.\n\nThere are many models for political leadership described in the Hebrew Bible. Stuart Cohen has pointed out that there are three separate power centers depicted in the Hebrew Bible: the priesthood, the royal throne, and the prophets.\n\nOne model of Biblical politics is the model of the tribal federation, where power is shared among different tribes and institutions. Another is the model of limited constitutional monarchy.\n\nThe Bible appears to command appointing a king in the Book of Deuteronomy with the following command: \"When you come into the land that the Lord your God is about to give you, and you take hold of it and dwell in it, and you say, 'Let me put a king over me like all the nations that are around me', you shall surely put over you a king whom the Lord your God chooses...\" (Deut. 17:14-15).\n\nThe Hebrew Bible contains a complex chronicle of the Kings of Israel and Judah, written over the course of many generations by authors whose relationships and intimacy with the rulers of the several kingdoms fluctuated widely in both intimacy and respect. Some historical passages of the Hebrew Bible contain intimate portrayals of the inner workings of the royal households of Saul, David, and Solomon; the accounts of subsequent monarchs are frequently more distanced and less detailed, and frequently begin with the judgement that the monarch \"did evil in the sight of the Lord\".\n\nDaniel Elazar has argued that the concept of covenant is the fundamental concept in the Biblical political tradition and in the later Jewish thought that emerges from the Bible.\n\nIn Roman Judea, Jewish communities were governed by rabbinical courts known as Sanhedrin. Lesser Sanhedrin composed of 23 judges were appointed to each city, while a Great Sanhedrin with 71 judges was the highest authority, taking cases appealed from the lower courts. The Sanhedrin served as the leadership of the Jewish community under Roman rule, and served as emissaries to the imperial authorities in addition to overseeing religious practice and collecting taxes. The Sanhedrin was the highest Jewish governing body of the Second Temple period, and the codification of the Mishnah by the Tannaim during this period laid the foundations for later Rabbinic Judaism.\n\nA statement by Rabbi Judah in the Babylonian Talmud (Sanhedrin 20b) depicts kingship as the ideal form of Jewish governance, following the Book of Deuteronomy statement that, \"When you come into the land that the Lord your God is about to give you, and you take hold of it and dwell in it, and you say, 'Let me put a king over me like all the nations that are around me', you shall surely put over you a king whom the Lord your God chooses...\" (Deut. 17:14-15).\n\nBut the Talmud also brings a different interpretation of this verse from Rabbi Nehorai, who is quoted as explaining that, \"This section was spoken only in anticipation of their future murmurings, as it is written, and you say, Let me put a king over me...\" (Sanhedrin 20b). In many interpretations, Rabbi Nehorai does not think of appointing a king as a strict obligation, but as a concession to later \"murmurings\" from Israel.\n\nIn addition to imagining ideal forms of governance, the rabbis accept a principle to obey the government currently in power. The Talmud makes reference to the principle of \"dina de-malkhuta dina\" (\"the law of the land is law\"), a principle recognizing non-Jewish laws and non-Jewish legal jurisdiction as binding on Jewish citizens, provided that they are not contrary to any laws of Judaism.\n\nAn autonomous form Jewish government in the Middle Ages was known as the Qahal (more often spelled \"Kahal\"), a form of government which many Jews saw as exemplifying Jewish principles. The kahal had regulatory control over Jewish communities in a given region; they administered commerce, hygiene, sanitation, charity, Jewish education, \"kashrut\", and relations between landlords and their tenants. It provided a number of community facilities, such as a rabbi, a ritual bath, and an interest-free loan facility for the Jewish community. The kahal even had sufficient authority that it could arrange for individuals to be expelled from synagogues, excommunicating them.\n\nSome medieval political theorists such as Maimonides and Rabbeinu Nissim saw kingship as ideal. Maimonides' views the commandment in Deuteronomy to appoint a king as a clear positive ideal, following the Talmudic teaching that \"three commandments were given to Israel when they entered the land: to appoint a king, as it says, 'You shall surely put over you a king'...\" A large section of Maimonides' legal code, the Mishneh Torah, titled \"The Laws of Kings and their Wars\", deals with the ideal model of kingship, especially in the messianic era, and also concerning ruling over non-Jewish subjects through the Noachide laws. Other sections of Maimonides' Mishneh Torah (mostly also in Sefer Shofetim, the book of Judges, where the laws of kingship are also found) is dedicated to the laws relating to legislators and judges.\n\nWhereas Maimonides' idealized kingship, other medieval political theorists, such as Abravanel, saw kingship as misguided. According to Abravanel, the commandment in Deuteroneomy to appoint a king is not a positive commandment at all. Rather, monarchy is a bad model, as \"kingship is very harmful to the general public\". Later on, other Jewish philosophers such as Baruch Spinoza would lay the groundwork for the Enlightenment, arguing for ideas such as the separation of church and state. Spinoza's writings caused him to be excommunicated from the Jewish community of Amsterdam, although his work and legacy has been largely rehabilitated, especially amongst secular Jews in the 20th and 21st centuries.\n\nWith Jewish Emancipation, the institution of the Qahal as an autonomous entity was officially abolished. Jews increasingly became participants in the wider political and social sphere of larger nations. As Jews became citizens of states with various political systems, and argued about whether to found their own state, Jewish ideas of the relationship between Judaism and politics developed in many different directions.\n\nIn the nineteenth century and early twentieth century, when there was a large Jewish population in Europe, some Jews favored various forms of liberalism, and saw them as connected with Jewish principles. Some Jews allied themselves with a range of Jewish political movements. These included Socialist and labor movements favored by the Jewish left, Zionist movements, Jewish Autonomist movements, Territorialist movements, and Jewish Anarchism movements. Haredi Jews formed an organization known as World Agudath Israel which espoused Haredi Jewish political principles. \n\nIn the 21st century, shifts are occurring. The Jewish community in Great Britain, one of the largest in the diaspora, is leaning conservative, as a poll published by the Jewish Chronicle in early 2015 shows. Of British Jews polled, 69% would vote for the Conservative Party, while 22% would vote for the Labour Party. This is in stark contrast to the rest of the voter population, which, according to a BBC poll, had Conservatives and Labor almost tied at about a third each. Jews have typically been a part of the British middle class, traditional home of the Conservative Party, though the number of Jews in working-class communities of London is in decline. The main voting bloc of poorer Jews in Britain now, made up primarily of ultra-Orthodox, votes \"en masse\" for the Conservatives. Attitudes toward Israel influence the vote of three out of four of British Jews. A shift toward conservatism has also been exhibited in France, where about half of the Jewish population is Sephardic. Jérôme Fourquet, director of the IFOP, the French polling organization, notes that there is a \"pronounced preference\" for right-wing politics among French Jews. During the 2007 election, Jews (Orthodox or not) represent the strongest pillar of support for Sarkozy after observant Catholics.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, Jews were divided in their views of slavery and abolition. Prior to 1861, there were virtually no rabbinical sermons on slavery. The silence on this issue was probably a result of fear that the controversy would create conflict within the Jewish community. Some Jews owned slaves or traded them, and the livelihoods of many in the Jewish community of both the North and South were tied to the slave system. Most southern Jews supported slavery, and some, like Judah P. Benjamin, advocated its expansion. The abolitionist Ben Wade, who knew Benjamin in the U.S. Senate, described him as \"an Israelite with Egyptian principles\". Northern Jews sympathized with the South, and few were abolitionists, seeking peace and remaining silent on the subject of slavery. America's largest Jewish community, New York's Jews, were \"overwhelmingly pro-southern, pro-slavery, and anti-Lincoln in the early years of the war\". However, eventually, they began to lean politically toward \"Father Abraham\", his Republican party, and emancipation.\n\nWhile earlier Jewish immigrants tended to be politically conservative, the wave of Eastern European Jews starting in the early 1880s, were generally more liberal or left-wing, and became the political majority. For most of the 20th century since 1936, the vast majority of Jews in the United States have been aligned with the Democratic Party. Many religious supporters of the Jewish left have argued that left-wing values vis-à-vis social justice can be traced to Jewish religious texts, including the Tanakh and later texts, which include a strong endorsement of hospitality to \"the stranger\" and the principle of redistribution of wealth in the Biblical idea of Jubilee - as well as a tradition of challenging authority, as exemplified by the Biblical Prophets.\n\nAmerican rabbinic leaders who have advanced a progressive political agenda grounded in Jewish principles have included:\n\nOther prominent Jews who have argued based on Jewish principles for a progressive political agenda have included:\n\nTowards the end of the 20th century, and at the beginning of the 21st century, Republicans launched initiatives to woo American Jews away from the Democratic Party. While a solid majority of American Jews continues to be aligned with the Democratic Party, many have argued that there is increased Jewish support for political conservatism. (The \"List of Jewish American politicians\" illustrates the diversity of Jewish political thought and of the roles Jews have played in American politics.)\n\nRabbinic leaders who have advanced a conservative political agenda grounded in Jewish principles have included:\n\nOther prominent Jews who have argued based on Jewish principles for a conservative political agenda have included:\n\nSignificant Jewish political philosophers in North America have included:\n\nThe development of a political system in Israel drew largely on European models of governance, rather than on models from the Jewish political tradition. Some political figures in Israel, however, have seen their principles as based in Judaism. This is especially pronounced in political parties that see themselves as religious parties, such as Shas, United Torah Judaism, and The Jewish Home.\n\nRecent interest in developing political theory grounded in Jewish sources has been spurred on by the activities of the neo-conservative Shalem Center.\n"}
{"id": "53807843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53807843", "title": "K-synchronized sequence", "text": "K-synchronized sequence\n\nIn mathematics and theoretical computer science, a \"k\"-synchronized sequence is an infinite sequence of terms \"s\"(\"n\") characterized by a finite automaton taking as input two strings \"m\" and \"n\", each expressed in some fixed base \"k\", and accepting if \"m\" = \"s\"(\"n\"). The class of \"k\"-synchronized sequences lies between the classes of \"k\"-automatic sequences and \"k\"-regular sequences.\n\nLet Σ be an alphabet of \"k\" symbols where \"k\" ≥ 2, and let [\"n\"] denote the base-\"k\" representation of some number \"n\". Given \"r\" ≥ 2, a subset \"R\" of formula_1 is \"k\"-synchronized if the relation {([\"n\"], ..., [\"n\"])} is a right-synchronized rational relation over Σ × ... × Σ, where (\"n\", ..., \"n\") formula_2 \"R\".\n\nLet \"n\" ≥ 0 be a natural number and let \"f\": formula_3 be a map, where both \"n\" and \"f\"(\"n\") are expressed in base \"k\". The sequence \"f\"(\"n\") is \"k\"-synchronized if the language of pairs formula_4 is regular.\n\nThe class of \"k\"-synchronized sequences was introduced by Carpi and Maggi.\n\nGiven a \"k\"-automatic sequence \"s\"(\"n\") and an infinite string \"S\" = \"s\"(1)\"s\"(2)..., let ρ(n) denote the subword complexity of \"S\"; that is, the number of distinct subwords of length \"n\" in \"S\". Goč, Schaeffer, and Shallit demonstrated that there exists a finite automaton accepting the language\nThis automaton guesses the endpoints of every contiguous block of symbols in \"S\" and verifies that each subword of length \"n\" starting within a given block is novel while all other subwords are not. It then verifies that \"m\" is the sum of the sizes of the blocks. Since the pair (\"n\", \"m\") is accepted by this automaton, the subword complexity function of the \"k\"-automatic sequence \"s\"(\"n\") is \"k\"-synchronized.\n\n\"k\"-synchronized sequences exhibit a number of interesting properties. A non-exhaustive list of these properties is presented below.\n"}
{"id": "30916131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30916131", "title": "Landfill gas emission reduction in Brazil", "text": "Landfill gas emission reduction in Brazil\n\nBrazil has established a strong public policy using Clean Development Mechanism Projects to reduce methane emissions from landfills. An important component of these projects is the sale of avoided emissions by the private market to generate revenue.\n\nFaced with serious pollution challenges, Brazil established public policy that would create incentives for the foreign and national private market to invest financial, technological, and human resources in the country. The premise is that experienced companies would bring their technology to Brazil, in an effort to reduce methane gas emissions. The specific technology and projects discussed in this article refer to landfill gas projects. Although this technology was new to Brazil in the early 2000s when companies first began implementing them, these methods were not new to Europe or North America. Additionally, Brazil is just one of many countries participating in similar projects around the world.\n\nBrazil signed the Kyoto Protocol on April 29, 1998 and ratified it on August 23, 2002. To date, Brazil has 347 clean development mechanism (CDM) projects, which account for 7.3% of the total projects worldwide. Estimated projections by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) show that by 2012, Brazil will have 102 million certified emission reductions (CER), a $1,225 million value. Unlike its fellow BRIC countries, in Brazil the largest component of potential CER projects is landfill gas projects, with a 31.3% share. According to the national survey on basic sanitation (PNSB) conducted in 2008, all of the 5,564 municipalities have access to basic sanitation. According to the Environmental Sanitation Technology Company (CETESB) study, the 6,000 waste sites in Brazil receive 60,000 tonnes of waste per day. Seventy-six percent (76%) of this waste goes to dumps with no management, gas collection, or water treatment. This same study showed that 83.18% of Brazil's methane gas emissions come from uncontrolled waste sites.\n\nPrivate companies have submitted CDM projects to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) to use landfill gas (LFG) discharges from waste management sites to earn carbon credits or CER. There are over 100 LFG CDM projects in Brazil. The diagram below illustrates the process.\nFirst, once the waste management company has developed the landfill with the new technology, (1a) it calculates how much methane (CH) would have been emitted into the air without its intervention. (1b) Then it converts the CH into carbon equivalents (C0). (2a) Next, the company projects how much methane it expects to emit into the air, with the new technology. Again, (2b) it converts the CH into C0. (3) Next, the company determines the avoided emissions or CER but subtracting the emission projections with the technology from the baseline emissions without the technology. (4) Once credited, the company sells the CER through a broker to companies that will produce emissions greater than their allotted capacity.\n\nThe SASA landfill is located in Tremembé in São Paulo State of Brazil. Onyx SASA is a subsidiary of Veolia Environnement and is an officially registered project with UNFCCC, as of November 24, 2005. SenterNovem, an agency of the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs in the Netherlands, is a partner in the project. The following flow chart depicts the process used by the landfill:\n\n(1) Methane (CH) or carbon equivalents (CO) are captured by the vertical wells. (2) Next, a horizontal drain that is connected to the vertical wells extracts the CO. (3) Then, a high density collection pipe captures the CO and transfers it to the evaporator. (4) Any CO that did not evaporate, is transferred to an enclosed flare. (5) The remaining emissions are then vented into the air.\n\nAt the filing of the report, Onyx SASA anticipated the landfill would accrue 700,625 tons CO from 2003 through 2012 in CER. As of 2011, Onyx SASA has filed monitoring reports for the periods of 2003 through 2007. The following chart outlines the actual CER realized to date:\n\nAdditionally, the project design report states Onyx SASA expects to revegetate and reforest the land; upon fulfillment, 150,000 trees will be planted around the landfill.\n\nEmpresa de Saneamento e Tratamento de Resíduos (ESTRE) is a private waste management Brazilian-based company, founded in 1999. ESTRE operates seven sites in Brazil, Uruguay, and Argentina. It offers waste management services, including recycling and landfills, to private companies and the government. The Paulínia Landfill Gas Project (EPLGP) is located in Campinas in São Paulo State of Brazil. The project was registered on March 3, 2006 with UNFCCC.\nThe goal of the EPLGP is to reduce greenhouse emissions. The following schematic illustrates the process of capturing and recycling the gas emissions:\n\nAs illustrated above, (1) wells installed in the landfill collect the methane (CH). (2) Next, high density pipes connected to the wells transfer the CH to the blower. (3) Any remaining CH is then sent to the flare. (4) Last, the CH is flared into the air.\n\nThe following table outlines the forecasted and actual yearly outputs of CER according to the monitoring reports filed with UNFCCC:\n\n<br>\n^The notable increase in actual CER versus the projected CER is due to the increase in waste received by the landfill, from 2.5 tons per day as reported in the CDM application to 5 tons per day.\n\nAfter Brazil's Congress passed the climate change legislation, on December 29, 2009, President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva signed the National Policy on Climate Change (PNMC). The law requires Brazil to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 38.9% by 2020. On December 9, 2010 President Lula signed a decree which details the provisions of PNMC. At its foundation, PNMC focuses on prevention, citizen participation, and sustainable development.\n\nThere are 13 articles in the legislation:\n\nThe decree specifies how Brazil quantifies greenhouse emissions, how it will achieve the reduction, and a legal requirement for estimating annual emissions. The policy will use Brazil's 2005 emission rate as the business as usual base line for comparison of future emissions. The Policy:\n\nSpecifically, the decree lists the following Action Plans:\n\nPer the decree, the Sectoral Plans will include:\n\nPer the decree, the following sectors are included in the estimations:\n\nThe National Climate Change Fund \"supports mitigation and adaptation projects and will rely principally on a to-be-determined portion of future oil and gas revenues.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14326079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14326079", "title": "Language expectancy theory", "text": "Language expectancy theory\n\nLanguage expectancy theory (LET) is a theory of persuasion. The theory assumes language is a rules-based system, in which people develop expected norms as to appropriate language usage in given situations. Furthermore, unexpected linguistic usage can affect the receiver's behavior resulting from attitudes towards a persuasive message.\n\nCreated by Michael Burgoon, a retired professor of medicine from the University of Arizona, and Gerald R. Miller, the inspiration for LET was sparked by Brooks' work on expectations of language in 1970. Burgoon, Jones and Stewart furthered the discussion with the idea of linguistic strategies and message intensity in an essay published in 1975. The essay linked linguistic strategies, or how a message is framed, to effective persuasive outcomes. The original work for the language expectation theory was published in 1978. Titled \"An empirical test of a model of resistance to persuasion\", it outlined the theory through 17s.\n\nThe theory views language expectancies as enduring patterns of anticipated communication behavior which are grounded in a society's psychological and cultural norms. Such societal forces influence language and enable the identification of non-normative use; violations of linguistic, syntactic and semantic expectations will either facilitate or inhibit an audience's receptivity to persuasion. Burgoon claims applications for his theory in management, media, politics and medicine, and declares that his empirical research has shown a greater effect than expectancy violations theory, the domain of which does not extend to the spoken word.\n\nLET argues that typical language behaviors fall within a normative \"bandwidth\" of expectations determined by a source's perceived credibility, the individual listener's normative expectations and a group's normative social climate, and generally supports a gender-stereotypical reaction to the use of profanity, for example.\n\nCommunication expectancies are said to derive from three factors: \n\nViolating social norms can have a positive or negative effect on persuasion. Usually people use language to conform to social norms; but a person's intentional or accidental deviation from expected behavior can have either a positive or negative reaction.Language Expectancy Theory assumes that language is a rule-governed system and people develop expectations concerning the language or message strategies employed by others in persuasive attempts (Burgoon, 1995). Expectations are a function of cultural and sociological norms and preferences arising from cultural values and societal standards or ideals for competent communication.\n\nWhen observed, behavior is preferred over what was expected or when a listener's initial negative evaluation causes a speaker to conform more closely to the expected behavior. The deviation can be seen as positive, but when language choice or behavior is perceived as unacceptable or inappropriate behavior, the violation is negatively received and can inhibit the receptivity to a persuasive appeal.\n\nPositive violations occur (b) when negatively evaluated sources conform more closely than expected to cultural values or situational norms. This can result in overly positive evaluation of the source and change promoted by the actor (Burgoon, 1995).\n\nNegative violations, resulting from language choices that lie outside socially acceptable behavior in a negative direction, produce no attitude or behavior change in receivers.\n\nLanguage expectancy theory is based on 17 propositions. Those propositions can be summarized as listed below:\n\nThese propositions give rise to the impact of language intensity—defined by John Waite Bowers as a quality of language that \"indicates the degree to which the speaker's attitude toward a concept deviates from neutrality\"—on persuasive messages. Theorists have concentrated on two key areas: (1) intensity of language when it comes to gender roles and (2) credibility.\n\nThe perceived credibility of a source can greatly affect a message's persuasiveness. Researchers found that credible sources can enhance their appeal by using intense language; however, less credible speakers are more persuasive with low-intensity appeals. Similarly, females are less persuasive than males when they use intense language because it violates the expected behavior, but are more persuasive when they use low-intensity language. Males, however, are seen as weak when they argue in a less intense manner. Theorists argue further that females and speakers perceived as having low credibility have less freedom in selecting message strategies and that the use of aggressive language negatively violates expectations.\n\nTo better explain the theory we look at the expectations and societal norms for a man and a woman on their first date. If the man pushed for further physical intimacy after dinner, the societal expectation of a first date would be violated. The example below with Margret and Steve depicts such a scene. \n\nMargret: \"I had a really good time tonight, Steve. We should do it again.\"\n\nSteve: \"Let's cut the crap. Do you want to have sex?\"\n\nMargret: \"Uhhh...\"\n\nMargret's language expectations of a first date were violated. Steve chooses an aggressive linguistic strategy. If Margret views Steve as a credible and appealing source, she may receive the message positively and, thus, the message would be persuasive. If Margret perceives Steve as an ambiguous or low-credible source, Steve will not be persuasive. In such a case, Steve should have used a low-aggressive message in his attempt to win Margret to his idea of having sex.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8034347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8034347", "title": "Life-cycle engineering", "text": "Life-cycle engineering\n\nLife-cycle engineering (LCE) is an approach to assess the environmental impacts in conjunction with economic impacts under consideration of technical boundary conditions. Scope of the assessment is usually the whole life cycle of a product consisting of production, use phase and end of life.\nThe environmental impacts are assessed using environmental life-cycle assessment (LCA). The economic impacts are assessed according to the life cycle costing (LCC) approach. Technical boundary conditions are taken into account providing some limitations on the model, thus verifying the technical feasibility.\n\nLCE aims to deliver a consistent standard of living for future generations that can be maintained indefinitely. Not only does LCE aim to reduce negative impacts on the environment but it can also be used to reduce economic costs for businesses and every day society. \n\nOne aspect of LCE for businesses is the extension of a part of a products life-cycle. The method of involving incremental innovation within production can be seen as a main way to achieve this. The combination of innovation together with technology allows for the function of products to be pushed further, allowing designers to improve the quality of how products meet expanding customer needs. \nThe key themes are economic, social, environmental and technological. All these themes are interlinking and can be influenced by life cycle engineering.\nEconomic factors\n\n• Economic costs\n\n• Productivity\n\n• Quality of products\n\n• Impact on future investments\n\n• Profitability \n\nSocial factors\n\n• Demographics\n\n• Future generations\n\n• Backing from environmentalist\n\nTechnological factors\n\n• Manufacturing\n\n• Efficiency\n\n• Innovation\n\nEnvironmental factors\n\n• Eco-design\n\n• Waste reduction\n\n• Land clearing\n\n• Nature conservation\n"}
{"id": "8637984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8637984", "title": "Limit-experience", "text": "Limit-experience\n\nA limit-experience () is a type of action or experience which approaches the edge of living in terms of its intensity and its seeming impossibility. This approach has led to the seeking of limit experiences as a sort of dark mysticism. A limit experience breaks the subject from itself. The idea is associated with writers Georges Bataille, Maurice Blanchot, and Michel Foucault.\n\nClassical instances of limit experiences include abandonment, fascination, suffering, madness, and poetry.\n\nWorking in a French tradition of abjection reaching back to Baudelaire and his paradoxes - \"O filthy grandeur! O sublime disgrace!\" - Bataille was early struck by what he saw as \"the fact that these two complete contrasts were identical - divine ecstasy and extreme horror\". He went on to challenge surrealism with a kind of anti-idealism searching for what he called the impossible by breaking rules until you reached something beyond all rules.\n\nIn this way, he strove for what Foucault would call \"the point of life which lies as close as possible to the impossibility of living, which lies at the limit or the extreme\". It was at the edge of limits where the ability to comprehend experience breaks down that Bataille sought to live.\n\nFor Foucault, \"the idea of a limit-experience that wrenches the subject from itself is what was important to me in my reading of Nietzsche, Bataille, and Blanchot\". In this way, the systems of philosophy and psychology, and their conceptions of reality and the unified subject, could be challenged and exposed, in favour of what systems/consciousness had to refuse and exclude.\n\nHow far Foucault's fascination with intense experiences provides a key to his entire body of work is however the subject of debate, with limit experiences arguably being absent from his later writings on sexuality and discipline, if strongly associated with the cult of the mad artist in \"The History of Madness\".\n\nLimit-experience is a type of somaesthetic \"edgework\" that goes on to test the limits of ordered reality.\n\nInfluenced by Bataille, from whom he drew the idea of impossibility, Lacan explored the role of limit-experiences - such as \"Desire, boredom, confinement, revolt, prayer, sleeplessness...and panic\" - in the formation of the Other.\n\nHe also adopted some of Bataille's views on love, seeing it as predicated on man having previously \"experienced the limit within which, like desire, he is bound\". He saw masochism in particular as a limit experience - something which fed into his article \"Kant avec Sade\".\n\nIn describing the conditions of belief Taylor attests to a sense of fullness, joy and fulfillment:\n\n[...]an experience which unsettles and breaks through our ordinary sense of being in the world, with its familiar objects, activities and points of reference [...] when \"ordinary reality is 'abolished' and something terrifyingly other shines through\"[...]\n\nConcern for limit experiences fed into existential phenomenology; and through figures like Sartre reached the anti-psychiatrists of the 1960s with their cult of authenticity in the pain of extreme madness.\n\nDavid Macey, \"Lacan in Contextt\" (1988)\n\nCarolyn Dean, \"The Self and its Pleasures: Bataille, Lacan, and the History of the Decentered Subject\" (1992)\n\nJacques Lacan, 'Kant avec Sade' \"Critique\" 191 (1963) / 'Kant with Sade' \"October\" 51 (1989)\n\n"}
{"id": "18135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18135", "title": "Lorenz curve", "text": "Lorenz curve\n\nIn economics, the Lorenz curve is a graphical representation of the distribution of income or of wealth. It was developed by Max O. Lorenz in 1905 for representing inequality of the wealth distribution.\n\nThe curve is a graph showing the proportion of overall income or wealth assumed by the bottom \"x\"% of the people, although this is not rigorously true for a finite population (see below). It is often used to represent income distribution, where it shows for the bottom \"x\"% of households, what percentage (\"y\"%) of the total income they have. The percentage of households is plotted on the \"x\"-axis, the percentage of income on the \"y\"-axis. It can also be used to show distribution of assets. In such use, many economists consider it to be a measure of social inequality.\n\nThe concept is useful in describing inequality among the size of individuals in ecology and in studies of biodiversity, where the cumulative proportion of species is plotted against the cumulative proportion of individuals. It is also useful in business modeling: e.g., in consumer finance, to measure the actual percentage \"y\"% of delinquencies attributable to the \"x\"% of people with worst risk scores.\n\nPoints on the Lorenz curve represent statements like \"the bottom 20% of all households have 10% of the total income.\"\n\nA perfectly equal income distribution would be one in which every person has the same income. In this case, the bottom \"N\"% of society would always have \"N\"% of the income. This can be depicted by the straight line \"y\" = \"x\"; called the \"line of perfect equality.\"\n\nBy contrast, a perfectly unequal distribution would be one in which one person has all the income and everyone else has none. In that case, the curve would be at \"y\" = 0% for all \"x\" < 100%, and \"y\" = 100% when \"x\" = 100%. This curve is called the \"line of perfect inequality.\"\n\nThe Gini coefficient is the ratio of the area between the line of perfect equality and the observed Lorenz curve to the area between the line of perfect equality and the line of perfect inequality. The higher the coefficient, the more unequal the distribution is. In the diagram on the right, this is given by the ratio \"A\"/(\"A+B\"), where \"A\" and \"B\" are the areas of regions as marked in the diagram.\n\nThe Lorenz curve can usually be represented by a function \"L\"(\"F\"), where \"F\", the cumulative portion of the population, is represented by the horizontal axis, and \"L\", the cumulative portion of the total wealth or income, is represented by the vertical axis.\n\nFor a population of size \"n\", with a sequence of values \"y\", \"i\" = 1 to \"n\", that are indexed in non-decreasing order ( \"y\" ≤ \"y\"), the Lorenz curve is the continuous piecewise linear function connecting the points ( \"F\", \"L\" ), \"i\" = 0 to \"n\", where \"F\" = 0, \"L\" = 0, and for \"i\" = 1 to \"n\":\n\nFor a discrete probability function \"f\"(\"y\"), let \"y\", \"i\" = 1 to \"n\", be the points with non-zero probabilities indexed in increasing order ( \"y\" < \"y\"). The Lorenz curve is the continuous piecewise linear function connecting the points ( \"F\", \"L\" ), \"i\" = 0 to \"n\", where \"F\" = 0, \"L\" = 0, and for \"i\" = 1 to \"n\":\n\nFor a probability density function \"f\"(\"x\") with the cumulative distribution function \"F\"(\"x\"), the Lorenz curve \"L\" is given by:\n\nwhere formula_8 denotes the average. The Lorenz curve \"L(F)\" may then be plotted as a function parametric in x: \"L(x)\" vs. \"F(x)\". In other contexts, the quantity computed here is known as the length biased (or size biased) distribution; it also has an important role in renewal theory.\n\nAlternatively, for a cumulative distribution function \"F\"(\"x\") with inverse \"x\"(\"F\"), the Lorenz curve \"L\"(\"F\") is directly given by:\n\nThe inverse \"x\"(\"F\") may not exist because the cumulative distribution function has intervals of constant values. However, the previous formula can still apply by generalizing the definition of \"x\"(\"F\"):\n\nFor an example of a Lorenz curve, see Pareto distribution.\n\nA Lorenz curve always starts at (0,0) and ends at (1,1).\n\nThe Lorenz curve is not defined if the mean of the probability distribution is zero or infinite.\n\nThe Lorenz curve for a probability distribution is a continuous function. However, Lorenz curves representing discontinuous functions can be constructed as the limit of Lorenz curves of probability distributions, the line of perfect inequality being an example.\n\nThe information in a Lorenz curve may be summarized by the Gini coefficient and the Lorenz asymmetry coefficient.\n\nThe Lorenz curve cannot rise above the line of perfect equality. \n\nIf the variable being measured cannot take negative values, the Lorenz curve:\nNote however that a Lorenz curve for net worth would start out by going negative due to the fact that some people have a negative net worth because of debt.\n\nThe Lorenz curve is invariant under positive scaling. If X is a random variable, for any positive number \"c\" the random variable \"c\" X has the same Lorenz curve as X.\n\nThe Lorenz curve is flipped twice, once about F = 0.5 and once about \"L\" = 0.5, by negation. If X is a random variable with Lorenz curve \"L\"(\"F\"), then −X has the Lorenz curve:\n\nThe Lorenz curve is changed by translations so that the equality gap \"F\" − \"L\"(\"F\") changes in proportion to the ratio of the original and translated means. If X is a random variable with a Lorenz curve \"L\"(\"F\") and mean \"μ\", then for any constant \"c\" ≠ −\"μ\", X + \"c\" has a Lorenz curve defined by:\n\nFor a cumulative distribution function \"F\"(\"x\") with mean \"μ\" and (generalized) inverse \"x\"(\"F\"), then for any \"F\" with 0 < \"F\" < 1 :\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33618530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33618530", "title": "Meaning (psychology)", "text": "Meaning (psychology)\n\nMeaning is a concept used in psychology as well as in other fields such as philosophy, linguistics, semiotics and sociology. \n\nThese multidisciplinary uses of the term are not independent and can more or less overlap. Within each of these fields, there are different ways in which the term \"meaning\" is constructed and used; each construction can match related constructions in other fields. At the deepest level, each construction is associated with an epistemological position. The concept of \"meaning\" is thus used differently in different epistemological traditions in each field. The logical positivists, for example, associated meaning with scientific verification. The meaning of meaning is therefore understood differently in different schools of psychology (as well as in different schools overall).\n\nAccording to Skinner, meaning is the modern version of \"idea\". Like an idea, a meaning is said to be expressed or communicated by an utterance. A meaning explains the occurrence of a particular word in the sense that if there had been a different meaning to be expressed, a different word would probably have appeared. Meaning has certain advantages over ideas because they have the possibility to be located outside the skin, and thus, according to Skinner, meanings can be observed directly. (Verbal Behavior. Chapter One. B.F. SKINNER. 1947\n\nJerome Bruner, one of the founding fathers of cognitive psychology, wrote: \"Very early on, ... emphasis began shifting from 'meaning' to 'information', from the construction of meaning to the processing of information. These are profoundly different matters. The key factor in the shift was the introduction of computation as the ruling metaphor and of computability as a necessary criterion of a good theoretical model. Information is indifferent with respect to meaning...\" (Bruner, 1990, p. 4).\n\nGerman critical psychology provides a metatheoretical framework for research on both psychological and computational tasks. One important part of this is the logical-historical development of the meaning category. It is shown that meaning is nothing absolute but subjective. Meaning is neither a property of things nor only present as an imagination of cognition. Thus, meanings cannot be \"defined\" or \"assigned\" as commonly thought. Meanings arise from societal production of use-value.\" (Meretz, 1999, p. 126)\n\nA similar understanding developed in cultural studies of science: \"Cultural studies thereby articulate dynamic, expressive conceptions of meaning, knowledge, and power, which contrast sharply with the standard approaches to these phenomena within philosophy and social theory (Rouse 1996, 1999). On such accounts, meaning is not a property of utterances or actions; the term `meaning' instead articulates the ways in which such performances inferentially draw upon and transform the field of prior performances in which they are situated.\" (Rouse, 2001, p. 3126)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5935306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5935306", "title": "Modernism/modernity", "text": "Modernism/modernity\n\nModernism/modernity is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal established in 1994 by Lawrence Rainey and Robert van Hallberg. It covers methodological, archival, and theoretical approaches to modernist studies in the long modernist period. Since 2001 it has been the official publication of the Modernist Studies Association.\n\nIn February 2014, the journal started operating with two editorial offices: a permanent MSA office and a permanent office at the University of York. It is published quarterly in January, April, September, and November by Johns Hopkins University Press. The journal is also available in digital form through library databases such as Project Muse.\n\nEach issue includes a section of thematic essays, multi-work review essays, individual book reviews, and a list of \"recent books of interest.\" The journal occasionally has guest-edited or special issues, with a series of related essays on one topic. The journal has also launched an \"Out of the Archives\" series, in which out-of-print and neglected works of modernism are reintroduced to its readership.\n\nThe current editors-in-chief are Debra Rae Cohen (University of South Carolina) and Christopher Bush (Northwestern University). Previous editors include Ann Ardis (University of Delaware), Cassandra Laity (Drew University), and Jeffrey Schnapp (Harvard University).\n\nIn 2003, \"Modernism/modernity\" won the Phoenix Award from the Council of Editors of Learned Journals.\n\n"}
{"id": "40336070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40336070", "title": "Naomi Scheman", "text": "Naomi Scheman\n\nNaomi Scheman is a Professor of Philosophy and Gender, Women's and Sexuality Studies at the University of Minnesota. She is also a guest professor at the Umeå Center for Gender Studies in Sweden. Scheman was one of the first scholars to bring Wittgenstein's thoughts in to feminist philosophy.\n\nScheman received her bachelor's in philosophy from Barnard College in 1968. She went on to receive a master's and doctorate in philosophy from Harvard University, in 1971 and 1978, respectively.\n\nScheman is currently a professor at University of Minnesota, and a guest professor at Umeå University. During her time at the University of Minnesota, she served as the chair of the Gender, Women's, and Sexuality Studies department from 1986-1989, and has served as the Director of Graduate Studies since 2007. Prior to her current positions, Scheman has held appointments at the University of Ottawa, Columbia University, the Center for Advanced Feminist Studies (including serving as director from 1991-1992 and associate dean of the graduate school from 2000-2003,) and the University of Gothenburg.\n\nScheman also serves as a member of the editorial boards of \"\" and \"NORA (the Nordic Women's Studies Journal)\". She also served as an associate editor of \"Signs\" between 1990 and 1993.\n\nScheman was one of the first academics to read Wittgenstein in a feminist light, and, likewise, was one of the first academics to bring Wittgenstein's ideas to feminism. Much of Scheman's work has centered around the implications of the interactions between ontology and epistemology. Scheman is especially interested in the ways in which transgressive practices shine light on the actions of normal people, and on how insights gleaned from these observations allow for the chance of acting differently. (Scheman is also a strong believer that mental phenomena such as race and class are socially constructed, and is a strong opponent of physicalism.)\n\nScheman has written three books: \"Engenderings: Constructions of Knowledge, Authority, and Privilege\" in 1993, \"Is Academic Feminism Dead?\" in 2000, \"Feminist Interpretations of Wittgenstein\" in 2002, and most recently \"Shifting Ground: Knowledge & Reality, Transgression & Trust\" in 2011. She has also written a significant number of peer-reviewed papers, as well as a number of articles, commentaries, and presentations including.\n\nIn \"Engenderings: Constructions of Knowledge, Authority, and Privilege\", Scheman critiques aspects of modern philosophy that serve or reinforce injustice. The book is structured as a collection of essays. She focuses especially on modern philosophy's apparent disdain for the body from which it, by necessity, sprung, and attempts to reground philosophy in the physical bodies and relationships it arose from. Much of \"Engenderings\" draws on Scheman's personal experience as a woman philosopher, attempting to figure out how to occupy the role of 'woman philosopher' while making as few concessions to the culture of intellectual privilege that led her to occupy that identity in the first place as possible.\n"}
{"id": "17235432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17235432", "title": "Negative elongation factor", "text": "Negative elongation factor\n\nIn molecular biology, NELF (negative elongation factor) is a four-subunit protein (NELF-A, NELF-B, NELF-C/NELF-D, and NELF-E) that negatively impacts transcription by RNA polymerase II (Pol II) by pausing about 20-60 nucleotides downstream from the transcription start site (TSS).\n\nThe NELF-A subunit is encoded by the gene WHSC2 (Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome candidate 2). Microsequencing analysis demonstrated that NELF-B was the protein previously identified as the protein encoded by the gene COBRA1, and was shown to interact with BRCA1. It is unknown whether or not NELF-C and NELF-D are peptides resulting from the same mRNA with different translation initiation sites, possibly differing only in an extra 9 amino acids for NELF-C at the N-terminus, or peptides from different mRNAs entirely. A single NELF complex consists of either NELF-C or NELF-D but not both. NELF-E is also known as RDBP.\n\nNELF binds in a stable complex with DSIF and RNA polymerase II together, but not with either alone. P-TEFb (positive transcription elongation factor b) inhibits the effect of NELF and DSIF on Pol II elongation, via its phosphorylation of serine-2 of the C-terminal domain of Pol II, and the SPT5 subunit of DSIF, causing dissociation of NELF. NELF homologues exist in some metazoans (e.g. insects and vertebrates) but have not been found in plants, yeast, or nematode (worms).\n"}
{"id": "39565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39565", "title": "Noble savage", "text": "Noble savage\n\nA noble savage is a literary stock character who embodies the concept of the indigene, outsider, wild human, an \"other\" who has not been \"corrupted\" by civilization, and therefore symbolizes humanity's innate goodness.\n\nIn English, the phrase first appeared in the 17th century in John Dryden's heroic play \"The Conquest of Granada\" (1672), wherein it was used in reference to newly created man. \"Savage\" at that time could mean \"wild beast\" as well as \"wild man\". The phrase later became identified with the idealized picture of \"nature's gentleman\", which was an aspect of 18th-century sentimentalism. The noble savage achieved prominence as an oxymoronic rhetorical device after 1851, when used sarcastically as the title for a satirical essay by English novelist Charles Dickens, who some believe may have wished to disassociate himself from what he viewed as the \"feminine\" sentimentality of 18th and early 19th-century romantic primitivism.\n\nThe idea that humans are essentially good is often attributed to the 3rd Earl of Shaftesbury, a Whig supporter of constitutional monarchy. In his \"Inquiry Concerning Virtue\" (1699), Shaftesbury had postulated that the moral sense in humans is natural and innate and based on feelings, rather than resulting from the indoctrination of a particular religion. Shaftesbury was reacting to Thomas Hobbes's justification of an absolutist central state in his \"Leviathan\", \"Chapter XIII\", in which Hobbes famously holds that the state of nature is a \"war of all against all\" in which men's lives are \"solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short\". Hobbes further calls the American Indians an example of a contemporary people living in such a state. Although writers since antiquity had described people living in pre-civilized conditions, Hobbes is credited with inventing the term \"State of Nature\". Ross Harrison writes that \"Hobbes seems to have invented this useful term.\"\n\nContrary to what is sometimes believed, Jean-Jacques Rousseau never used the phrase \"noble savage\" (French \"\"). However, the character of the \"noble savage\" appeared in French literature at least as early as Jacques Cartier (coloniser of Québec, speaking of the Iroquois) and Michel de Montaigne (philosopher, speaking of the Tupinamba) in the 16th century.\n\nTacitus' \"De origine et situ Germanorum\" (\"Germania\"), written 98 AD, has been described as a predecessor of the modern noble savage concept, which started in the 17th and 18th centuries in western European travel literature.\n\nDuring the late 16th and 17th centuries, the figure of the indigene or \"savage\"—and later, increasingly, the \"good savage\"—was held up as a reproach to European civilization, then in the throes of the French Wars of Religion and Thirty Years' War. During the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre (1572), some ten to twenty thousand men, women, and children were massacred by Catholic mobs, chiefly in Paris, but also throughout France. This horrifying breakdown of civil control was deeply disturbing to thoughtful people on both sides of the religious divide.\n\nIn his famous essay \"Of Cannibals\" (1580), Michel de Montaigne—himself a Catholic—reported that the Tupinambá people of Brazil ceremoniously eat the bodies of their dead enemies as a matter of honour. However, he reminded his readers that Europeans behave even more barbarously when they burn each other alive for disagreeing about religion (he implies): \"One calls 'barbarism' whatever he is not accustomed to.\"\n\nIn \"Of Cannibals\", Montaigne uses cultural (but not moral) relativism for the purpose of satire. His cannibals are neither noble nor especially good, but not worse than 16th-century Europeans. In this classical humanist view, customs differ but people everywhere are prone to cruelty, a quality that Montaigne detested.\n\nThe treatment of indigenous peoples by the Spanish Conquistadors also produced a great deal of bad conscience and recriminations. The Spanish priest Bartolomé de las Casas, who witnessed it, may have been the first to idealize the simple life of the indigenous Americans. He and other observers praised their simple manners and reported that they were incapable of lying.\n\nEuropean angst over colonialism inspired fictional treatments such as Aphra Behn's novel \"Oroonoko, or the Royal Slave\" (1688), about a slave revolt in Surinam in the West Indies. Behn's story was not primarily a protest against slavery; rather, it was written for money, and it met readers' expectations by following the conventions of the European romance novella. The leader of the revolt, Oroonoko, is truly noble in that he is a hereditary African prince, and he laments his lost African homeland in the traditional terms of a classical Golden Age. He is not a savage but dresses and behaves like a European aristocrat. Behn's story was adapted for the stage by Irish playwright Thomas Southerne, who stressed its sentimental aspects, and as time went on, it came to be seen as addressing the issues of slavery and colonialism, remaining very popular throughout the 18th century.\n\nIn English, the phrase \"Noble Savage\" first appeared in poet John Dryden's heroic play, \"The Conquest of Granada\" (1672):\n<poem>\nI am as free as nature first made man,\nEre the base laws of servitude began,\nWhen wild in woods the noble savage ran.</poem>\n\nThe hero who speaks these words in Dryden's play is here denying the right of a prince to put him to death, on the grounds that he is not that prince's subject. These lines were quoted by Scott as the heading to Chapter 22 of his \"A Legend of Montrose\" (1819). \"Savage\" is better taken here in the sense of \"wild beast\", so that the phrase \"noble savage\" is to be read as a witty conceit meaning simply the beast that is above the other beasts, or man.\n\nEthnomusicologist Ter Ellingson believes that Dryden had picked up the expression \"noble savage\" from a 1609 travelogue about Canada by the French explorer Marc Lescarbot, in which there was a chapter with the ironic heading: \"The Savages are Truly Noble\", meaning simply that they enjoyed the right to hunt game, a privilege in France granted only to hereditary aristocrats. It is not known if Lescarbot was aware of Montaigne's stigmatization of the aristocratic pastime of hunting, though some authors believe he was familiar with Montaigne. Lescarbot's familiarity with Montaigne, is discussed by Ter Ellingson in \"The Myth of the Noble Savage\".\n\nIn Dryden's day the word \"savage\" did not necessarily have the connotations of cruelty now associated with it. Instead, as an adjective, it could as easily mean \"wild\", as in a wild flower, for example. Thus he wrote in 1697, 'the savage cherry grows. ...';.\n\nOne scholar, Audrey Smedley, believes that: \"English conceptions of 'the savage' were grounded in expansionist conflicts with Irish pastoralists and more broadly, in isolation from, and denigration of neighboring European peoples.\" and Ellingson agrees that \"The ethnographic literature lends considerable support for such arguments\"\n\nIn France the stock figure that in English is called the \"noble savage\" has always been simply \"le bon sauvage\", \"the good wild man\", a term without any of the paradoxical frisson of the English one. Montaigne is generally credited for being at the origin of this myth in his Essays (1580), especially \"Of Coaches\" and \"Of Cannibals\". This character, an idealized portrayal of \"Nature's Gentleman\", was an aspect of 18th-century sentimentalism, along with other stock characters such as, the Virtuous Milkmaid, the Servant-More-Clever-than-the-Master (such as Sancho Panza and Figaro, among countless others), and the general theme of virtue in the lowly born. The use of stock characters (especially in theater) to express moral truths derives from classical antiquity and goes back to Theophrastus's \"Characters\", a work that enjoyed a great vogue in the 17th and 18th centuries and was translated by Jean de La Bruyère. The practice largely died out with advent of 19th-century realism but lasted much longer in genre literature, such as adventure stories, Westerns, and, arguably, science fiction. Nature's Gentleman, whether European-born or exotic, takes his place in this cast of characters, along with the Wise Egyptian, Persian, and Chinaman. \"But now, alongside the Good Savage, the Wise Egyptian claims his place.\" Some of these types are discussed by Paul Hazard in \"The European Mind\".\n\nHe had always existed, from the time of the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", where he appears as Enkiddu, the wild-but-good man who lives with animals. Another instance is the untutored-but-noble medieval knight, Parsifal. The Biblical shepherd boy David falls into this category. The association of virtue with withdrawal from society—and specifically from cities—was a familiar theme in religious literature.\n\n\"Hayy ibn Yaqdhan\" an Islamic philosophical tale (or thought experiment) by Ibn Tufail from 12th-century Andalusia, straddles the divide between the religious and the secular. The tale is of interest because it was known to the New England Puritan divine, Cotton Mather. Translated into English (from Latin) in 1686 and 1708, it tells the story of Hayy, a wild child, raised by a gazelle, without human contact, on a deserted island in the Indian Ocean. Purely through the use of his reason, Hayy goes through all the gradations of knowledge before emerging into human society, where he revealed to be a believer of natural religion, which Cotton Mather, as a Christian Divine, identified with Primitive Christianity. The figure of Hayy is both a Natural man and a Wise Persian, but not a Noble Savage.\n\nThe \"locus classicus\" of the 18th-century portrayal of the American Indian are the famous lines from Alexander Pope's \"Essay on Man\" (1734):\n\n<poem>Lo, the poor Indian! whose untutor'd mind\nSees God in clouds, or hears him in the wind;\nHis soul proud Science never taught to stray\nFar as the solar walk or milky way;\nYet simple Nature to his hope has giv'n,\nBehind the cloud-topp'd hill, a humbler heav'n;\nSome safer world in depth of woods embrac'd,\nSome happier island in the wat'ry waste,\nWhere slaves once more their native land behold,\nNo fiends torment, no Christians thirst for gold!\nTo be, contents his natural desire;\nHe asks no angel's wing, no seraph's fire:\nBut thinks, admitted to that equal sky,\nHis faithful dog shall bear him company.\"</poem>\n\nTo Pope, writing in 1734, the Indian was a purely abstract figure— \"poor\" either meant ironically, or applied because he was uneducated and a heathen, but also happy because he was living close to Nature. This view reflects the typical Age of Reason belief that men are everywhere and in all times the same as well as a Deistic conception of natural religion (although Pope, like Dryden, was Catholic). Pope's phrase, \"Lo the Poor Indian\", became almost as famous as Dryden's \"noble savage\" and, in the 19th century, when more people began to have first hand knowledge of and conflict with the Indians, would be used derisively for similar sarcastic effect.\n\nIn the 1st century AD, sterling qualities such as those enumerated above by Fénelon (excepting perhaps belief in the brotherhood of man) had been attributed by Tacitus in his \"Germania\" to the German barbarians, in pointed contrast to the softened, Romanized Gauls. By inference Tacitus was criticizing his own Roman culture for getting away from its roots—which was the perennial function of such comparisons. Tacitus's Germans did not inhabit a \"Golden Age\" of ease but were tough and inured to hardship, qualities which he saw as preferable to the decadent softness of civilized life. In antiquity this form of \"hard primitivism\", whether admired or deplored (both attitudes were common), co-existed in rhetorical opposition to the \"soft primitivism\" of visions of a lost Golden Age of ease and plenty.\n\nAs art historian Erwin Panofsky explains:\n\nIn the 18th century the debates about primitivism centered around the examples of the people of Scotland as often as the American Indians. The rude ways of the Highlanders were often scorned, but their toughness also called forth a degree of admiration among \"hard\" primitivists, just as that of the Spartans and the Germans had done in antiquity. One Scottish writer described his Highland countrymen this way:\n\nDebates about \"soft\" and \"hard\" primitivism intensified with the publication in 1651 of Hobbes's \"Leviathan\" (or \"Commonwealth\"), a justification of absolute monarchy. Hobbes, a \"hard Primitivist\", flatly asserted that life in a state of nature was \"solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short\"—a \"war of all against all\":\n\nReacting to the wars of religion of his own time and the previous century, he maintained that the absolute rule of a king was the only possible alternative to the otherwise inevitable violence and disorder of civil war. Hobbes' hard primitivism may have been as venerable as the tradition of soft primitivism, but his use of it was new. He used it to argue that the state was founded on a social contract in which men voluntarily gave up their liberty in return for the peace and security provided by total surrender to an absolute ruler, whose legitimacy stemmed from the Social Contract and not from God.\n\nHobbes' vision of the natural depravity of man inspired fervent disagreement among those who opposed absolute government. His most influential and effective opponent in the last decade of the 17th century was Shaftesbury. Shaftesbury countered that, contrary to Hobbes, humans in a state of nature were neither good nor bad, but that they possessed a moral sense based on the emotion of sympathy, and that this emotion was the source and foundation of human goodness and benevolence. Like his contemporaries (all of whom who were educated by reading classical authors such as Livy, Cicero, and Horace), Shaftesbury admired the simplicity of life of classical antiquity. He urged a would-be author “to search for that simplicity of manners, and innocence of behavior, which has been often known among mere savages; ere they were corrupted by our commerce” (\"Advice to an Author\", Part III.iii). Shaftesbury's denial of the innate depravity of man was taken up by contemporaries such as the popular Irish essayist Richard Steele (1672–1729), who attributed the corruption of contemporary manners to false education. Influenced by Shaftesbury and his followers, 18th-century readers, particularly in England, were swept up by the cult of Sensibility that grew up around Shaftesbury's concepts of sympathy and benevolence.\n\nMeanwhile, in France, where those who criticized government or Church authority could be imprisoned without trial or hope of appeal, primitivism was used primarily as a way to protest the repressive rule of Louis XIV and XV, while avoiding censorship. Thus, in the beginning of the 18th century, a French travel writer, the Baron de Lahontan, who had actually lived among the Huron Indians, put potentially dangerously radical Deist and egalitarian arguments in the mouth of a Canadian Indian, Adario, who was perhaps the most striking and significant figure of the \"good\" (or \"noble\") savage, as we understand it now, to make his appearance on the historical stage:\n\nPublished in Holland, Lahontan's writings, with their controversial attacks on established religion and social customs, were immensely popular. Over twenty editions were issued between 1703 and 1741, including editions in French, English, Dutch and German.\n\nMany of the most incendiary passages in Raynal's book, one of the bestsellers of the eighteenth century, especially in the Western Hemisphere, are now known to have been in fact written by Diderot. Reviewing Jonathan Israel's \"Democratic Enlightenment: Philosophy, Revolution, and Human Rights\", Jeremy Jennings, notes that \"The History of the Two Indies\", in the opinion of Jonathan Israel, was the text that \"made a world revolution\" by delivering \"the most devastating single blow to the existing order\":\n\nIn the later 18th century, the published voyages of Captain James Cook and Louis Antoine de Bougainville seemed to open a glimpse into an unspoiled Edenic culture that still existed in the un-Christianized South Seas. Their popularity inspired Diderot's \"Supplement to the Voyage of Bougainville\" (1772), a scathing critique of European sexual hypocrisy and colonial exploitation.\n\nBenjamin Franklin, who had negotiated with the Indians during the French and Indian War, protested vehemently against the Paxton massacre that took place at Conestoga, in western Pennsylvania, of December 1763, in which white vigilantes massacred Indian women and children, many of whom had converted to Christianity. Franklin himself personally organized a Quaker militia to control the white population and \"strengthen the government\". In his pamphlet \"Remarks Concerning the Savages of North America\" (1784), Franklin deplored the use of the term \"savages\" for Native Americans:\n\nFranklin used the massacres to illustrate his point that no race had a monopoly on virtue, likening the Paxton vigilantes to \"Christian White Savages'\". Franklin cried out to a just God to punish those who carried the Bible in one hand and the hatchet in the other: 'O ye unhappy Perpetrators of this Horrid Wickedness!'\" Franklin praised the Indian way of life, their customs of hospitality, their councils, which reached agreement by discussion and consensus, and noted that many white men had voluntarily given up the purported advantages of civilization to live among them, but that the opposite was rare.\n\nThough retrospectively it may seem to us that Franklin may have idealized the Indians to make a rhetorical point, the phrase \"noble savage\" never appears in his writings.\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau, like Shaftesbury, also insisted that man was born with the potential for goodness; and he, too, argued that civilization, with its envy and self-consciousness, has made men bad. In his \"Discourse on the Origins of Inequality Among Men\" (1754), Rousseau maintained that man in a State of Nature had been a solitary, ape-like creature, who was not \"méchant\" (bad), as Hobbes had maintained, but (like some other animals) had an \"innate repugnance to see others of his kind suffer\" (and this natural sympathy constituted the Natural Man's one-and-only natural virtue). It was Rousseau's fellow \"philosophe\", Voltaire, objecting to Rousseau's egalitarianism, who charged him with primitivism and accused him of wanting to make people go back and walk on all fours. Because Rousseau was the preferred philosopher of the radical Jacobins of the French Revolution, he, above all, became tarred with the accusation of promoting the notion of the \"noble savage\", especially during the polemics about Imperialism and scientific racism in the last half of the 19th century. Yet the phrase \"noble savage\" does not occur in any of Rousseau's writings. In fact, Rousseau arguably shared Hobbes' pessimistic view of humankind, except that as Rousseau saw it, Hobbes had made the error of assigning it to too early a stage in human evolution. According to the historian of ideas, Arthur O. Lovejoy:\n\nIn his \"Discourse on the Origins of Inequality\", Rousseau, anticipating the language of Darwin, states that as the animal-like human species increased there arose a \"formidable struggle for existence\" between it and other species for food. It was then, under the pressure of necessity, that \"le caractère spécifique de l'espèce humaine\"—the specific quality that distinguished man from the beasts—emerged—intelligence, a power, meager at first but yet capable of an \"almost unlimited development\". Rousseau calls this power the \"faculté de se perfectionner\"—perfectibility. Man invented tools, discovered fire, and in short, began to emerge from the state of nature. Yet at this stage, men also began to compare himself to others: \"It is easy to see. ... that all our labors are directed upon two objects only, namely, for oneself, the commodities of life, and consideration on the part of others.\" \"Amour propre\"—the desire for consideration (self regard), Rousseau calls a \"factitious feeling arising, only in society, which leads a man to think more highly of himself than of any other.\" This passion began to show itself with the first moment of human self-consciousness, which was also that of the first step of human progress: \"It is this desire for reputation, honors, and preferment which devours us all ... this rage to be distinguished, that we own what is best and worst in men—our virtues and our vices, our sciences and our errors, our conquerors and our philosophers—in short, a vast number of evil things and a small number of good.\" It is this \"which inspires men to all the evils which they inflict upon one another.\". To be sure, Rousseau praises the newly discovered \"savage\" tribes (whom Rousseau does \"not\" consider in a \"state of nature\"), as living a life that is simpler and more egalitarian than that of the Europeans; and he sometimes praises this \"third stage\" it in terms that could be confused with the romantic primitivism fashionable in his times. He also identifies ancient primitive communism under a patriarchy, such as he believes characterized the \"youth\" of mankind, as perhaps the happiest state and perhaps also illustrative of how man was intended by God to live. But these stages are not all good, but rather are mixtures of good and bad. According to Lovejoy, Rousseau's basic view of human nature after the emergence of social living is basically identical to that of Hobbes. Moreover, Rousseau does not believe that it is possible or desirable to go back to a primitive state. It is only by acting together in civil society and binding themselves to its laws that men become men; and only a properly constituted society and reformed system of education could make men good. According to Lovejoy:\n\nFor Rousseau the remedy was not in going back to the primitive but in reorganizing society on the basis of a properly drawn up social compact, so as to \"draw from the very evil from which we suffer [i.e., civilization and progress] the remedy which shall cure it.\" Lovejoy concludes that Rousseau's doctrine, as expressed in his \"Discourse on Inequality\":\n\nDuring the 19th century the idea that men were everywhere and always the same that had characterized both classical antiquity and the Enlightenment was exchanged for a more organic and dynamic evolutionary concept of human history. Advances in technology now made the indigenous man and his simpler way of life appear, not only inferior, but also, even his defenders agreed, foredoomed by the inexorable advance of progress to inevitable extinction. The sentimentalized \"primitive\" ceased to figure as a moral reproach to the decadence of the effete European, as in previous centuries. Instead, the argument shifted to a discussion of whether his demise should be considered a desirable or regrettable eventuality. As the century progressed, native peoples and their traditions increasingly became a foil serving to highlight the accomplishments of Europe and the expansion of the European Imperial powers, who justified their policies on the basis of a presumed racial and cultural superiority.\n\nIn 1853 Charles Dickens wrote a scathingly sarcastic review in his weekly magazine \"Household Words\" of painter George Catlin's show of American Indians when it visited England. In his essay, entitled \"The Noble Savage\", Dickens expressed repugnance for Indians and their way of life in no uncertain terms, recommending that they ought to be “civilised off the face of the earth”. (Dickens's essay refers back to Dryden's well-known use of the term, not to Rousseau.) Dickens's scorn for those unnamed individuals, who, like Catlin, he alleged, misguidedly exalted the so-called \"noble savage\", was limitless. In reality, Dickens maintained, Indians were dirty, cruel, and constantly fighting among themselves. Dickens's satire on Catlin and others like him who might find something to admire in the American Indians or African bushmen is a notable turning point in the history of the use of the phrase.\n\nLike others who would henceforth write about the topic, Dickens begins by disclaiming a belief in the \"noble savage\":\n\nDickens' essay was arguably a pose of manly, no-nonsense realism and a defense of Christianity. At the end of it his tone becomes more recognizably humanitarian, as he maintains that, although the virtues of the savage are mythical and his way of life inferior and doomed, he still deserves to be treated no differently than if he were an Englishman of genius, such as Newton or Shakespeare:\n\nAlthough Charles Dickens had ridiculed positive depictions of Native Americans as portrayals of so-called \"noble\" savages, he made an exception (at least initially) in the case of the Inuit, whom he called “loving children of the north”, “forever happy with their lot,” “whether they are hungry or full”, and “gentle loving savages”, who, despite a tendency to steal, have a “quiet, amiable character” (\"Our Phantom Ship on an Antediluvian Cruise\", \"Household Words\", April 16, 1851). However he soon reversed this rosy assessment, when on October 23, 1854, \"The Times\" of London published a report by explorer-physician John Rae of the discovery by Eskimos of the remains of the lost Franklin expedition along with unmistakable evidence of cannibalism among members of the party:\n\nFranklin's widow and other surviving relatives and indeed the nation as a whole were shocked to the core and refused to accept these reports, which appeared to undermine the whole assumption of the cultural superiority of the heroic white explorer-scientist and the imperial project generally. Instead, they attacked the reliability of the Eskimos who had made the gruesome discovery and called them liars. An editorial in \"The Times\" called for further investigation:\n\nThis line was energetically taken up by Dickens, who wrote in his weekly magazine:\n\nDr. John Rae rebutted Dickens in two articles in \"Household Words\": “The Lost Arctic Voyagers”, \"Household Words\", No. 248 (December 23, 1854), and \"Dr. Rae’s Report to the Secretary of the Admiralty\", \"Household Words\", No. 249 (December 30, 1854). Though he did not call them noble, Dr. Rae, who had lived among the Inuit, defended them as “dutiful” and “a bright example to the most civilized people”, comparing them favorably with the undisciplined crew of the Franklin expedition, whom he suggested were ill-treated and \"would have mutinied under privation\", and moreover with the lower classes in England or Scotland generally.\n\nDickens and Wilkie Collins subsequently collaborated on a melodramatic play, \"The Frozen Deep\", about the menace of cannibalism in the far north, in which \"the villainous role assigned to the Eskimos in \"Household Words\" is assumed by a working class Scotswoman.\n\n\"The Frozen Deep\" was performed as a benefit organized by Dickens and attended by Queen Victoria, Prince Albert, and Emperor Leopold II of Belgium, among others, to fund a memorial to the Franklin Expedition. (Dr. Rae himself was Scots).\n\nRae's respect for the Inuit and his refusal to scapegoat them in the Franklin affair arguably harmed his career. Lady Franklin's campaign to glorify the dead of her husband's expedition, aided and abetted by Dickens, resulted in his being more or less shunned by the British establishment. Although it was not Franklin but Rae who in 1848 discovered the last link in the much-sought-after Northwest Passage, Rae was never awarded a knighthood and died in obscurity in London. (In comparison fellow Scot and contemporary explorer David Livingstone was knighted and buried with full imperial honors in Westminster Abbey). However, modern historians have confirmed Rae's discovery of the Northwest Passage and the accuracy of his report on cannibalism among Franklin's crew. Canadian author Ken McGoogan, a specialist on Arctic exploration, states that Rae's willingness to learn and adopt the ways of indigenous Arctic peoples made him stand out as the foremost specialist of his time in cold-climate survival and travel. Rae's respect for Inuit customs, traditions, and skills was contrary to the prejudiced belief of many 19th-century Europeans that native peoples had no valuable technical knowledge or information to impart.\n\nIn July 2004, Orkney and Shetland MP Alistair Carmichael introduced into the UK Parliament a motion proposing that the House \"regrets that Dr Rae was never awarded the public recognition that was his due\". In March 2009 Carmichael introduced a further motion urging Parliament to formally state it \"regrets that memorials to Sir John Franklin outside the Admiralty headquarters and inside Westminster Abbey still inaccurately describe Franklin as the first to discover the [North West] passage, and calls on the Ministry of Defence and the Abbey authorities to take the necessary steps to clarify the true position.\"\n\nDickens's racism, like that of many Englishmen, became markedly worse after the Sepoy Rebellion of 1857 in India.\n\nIt was said that Dickens's racism, “grew progressively more illiberal over the course of his career\". Grace Moore, on the other hand, argues that Dickens, a staunch abolitionist and opponent of imperialism, had views on racial matters that were a good deal more complex than previous critics have suggested. This event, and the virtually contemporaneous occurrence of the American Civil War (1861–1864), which threatened to, and then did, put an end to slavery, coincided with a polarization of attitudes exemplified by the phenomenon of scientific racism.\n\nIn 1860, John Crawfurd and James Hunt mounted a defense of British imperialism based on \"scientific racism\". Crawfurd, in alliance with Hunt, took over the presidency of the Ethnological Society of London, which was an offshoot of the Aborigines' Protection Society, founded with the mission to defend indigenous peoples against slavery and colonial exploitation. Invoking \"science\" and \"realism\", the two men derided their \"philanthropic\" predecessors for believing in human equality and for not recognizing that mankind was divided into superior and inferior races. Crawfurd, who opposed Darwinian evolution, \"denied any unity to mankind, insisting on immutable, hereditary, and timeless differences in racial character, principal amongst which was the 'very great' difference in 'intellectual capacity.'\" For Crawfurd, the races had been created separately and were different species. Crawfurd was Scots, and thought the Scots \"race\" superior to all others; whilst Hunt, on the other hand, believed in the supremacy of the Anglo-Saxon \"race\". Crawfurd and Hunt routinely accused those who disagreed with them of believing in \"Rousseau's Noble Savage\". The pair ultimately quarreled because Hunt believed in slavery and Crawfurd did not. \"As Ter Ellingson demonstrates, Crawfurd was responsible for re-introducing the Pre-Rousseauian concept of 'the Noble Savage' to modern anthropology, attributing it wrongly and quite deliberately to Rousseau.”. In an otherwise rather lukewarm review of Ellingson's book in \"Journal of Colonialism and Colonial History\" 4:1 (Spring 2003), Frederick E. Hoxie writes:\n\n\"If Rousseau was not the inventor of the Noble Savage, who was?\" writes Ellingson,\n\nEllingson finds that any remotely positive portrayal of an indigenous (or working class) person is apt to be characterized (out of context) as a supposedly \"unrealistic\" or \"romanticized\" \"Noble Savage\". He points out that Fairchild even includes as an example of a supposed \"Noble Savage\", a picture of a Negro slave on his knees, lamenting lost his freedom. According to Ellingson, Fairchild ends his book with a denunciation of the (always unnamed) believers in primitivism or \"The Noble Savage\"—who, he feels, are threatening to unleash the dark forces of irrationality on civilization.\n\nEllingson argues that the term \"noble savage\", an oxymoron, is a derogatory one, which those who oppose \"soft\" or romantic primitivism use to discredit (and intimidate) their supposed opponents, whose romantic beliefs they feel are somehow threatening to civilization. Ellingson maintains that virtually none of those accused of believing in the \"noble savage\" ever actually did so. He likens the practice of accusing anthropologists (and other writers and artists) of belief in the noble savage to a secularized version of the inquisition, and he maintains that modern anthropologists have internalized these accusations to the point where they feel they have to begin by ritualistically disavowing any belief in \"noble savage\" if they wish to attain credibility in their fields. He notes that text books with a painting of a handsome Native American (such as the one by Benjamin West on this page) are even given to school children with the cautionary caption, \"A painting of a Noble Savage\". West's depiction is characterized as a typical \"noble savage\" by art historian Vivien Green Fryd, but her interpretation has been contested.\n\nThe most famous modern example of \"hard\" (or anti-) primitivism in books and movies was William Golding's \"Lord of the Flies\", published in 1954. The title is said to be a reference to the Biblical devil, Beelzebub. This book, in which a group of school boys stranded on a desert island \"revert\" to savage behavior, was a staple of high school and college required reading lists during the Cold War.\n\nIn the 1970s, film director Stanley Kubrick professed his opposition to primitivism. Like Dickens, he began with a disclaimer:\n\nThe opening scene of Kubrick's movie \"\" (1968) depicted prehistoric ape-like men wielding weapons of war, as the tools that supposedly lifted them out of their animal state and made them human.\n\nAnother opponent of primitivism is the Australian anthropologist Roger Sandall, who has accused other anthropologists of exalting the \"noble savage\". A third is archeologist Lawrence H. Keeley, who has criticised a \"widespread myth\" that \"civilized humans have fallen from grace from a simple primeval happiness, a peaceful golden age\" by uncovering archeological evidence that he claims demonstrates that violence prevailed in the earliest human societies. Keeley argues that the \"noble savage\" paradigm has warped anthropological literature to political ends.\n\nThe noble savage is described as having a natural existence. The term ignoble savage has an obvious negative connotation. The ignoble savage is detested—described as having a cruel and primitive existence. Often, the phrase “ignoble savage” was used and abused to justify colonialism. The concept of the ignoble savage gave Europeans the \"right\" to establish colonies without considering the possibility of preexisting, functional societies. A prime example would be the use of the Discovery Doctrine which is still used in the courts of the United States of America.\n\nThe \"noble savage\" often maps to uncorrupted races in science fiction and fantasy genres, often deliberately as a contrast to \"fallen\" more advanced cultures, in films such as \"Avatar\" and literature including Ghân-buri-Ghân in \"The Lord of the Rings\".\nTwo very famous noble savage characters in fantasy and science fiction that are very well known are Tarzan created by Edgar Rice Burroughs and Conan The Barbarian created by Robert E. Howard. Ka-Zar, Thongor and such are lesser known. Tarzan and Conan are not only known through their literature, but by movie adaptations and other licensed material.\n\nAccording to critics like the \"Telegraph\"'s Tim Robey, romantically idealized portrayals of non-industrialized or exotic people persist in popular films, as for example in \"The Lone Ranger\" or \"Dances with Wolves\".\n\n\nConcepts:\n\nCultural examples:\n\n"}
{"id": "475449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=475449", "title": "Oscillation (mathematics)", "text": "Oscillation (mathematics)\n\nIn mathematics, the oscillation of a function or a sequence is a number that quantifies how much a sequence or function varies between its extreme values as it approaches infinity or a point. As is the case with limits there are several definitions that put the intuitive concept into a form suitable for a mathematical treatment: oscillation of a sequence of real numbers, oscillation of a real valued function at a point, and oscillation of a function on an interval (or open set).\n\nLet formula_1 be a sequence of real numbers. The oscillation formula_2 of that sequence is defined as the difference (possibly infinite) between the limit superior and limit inferior of formula_1:\n\nThe oscillation is zero if and only if the sequence converges. It is undefined if formula_5 and formula_6 are both equal to +∞ or both equal to −∞, that is, if the sequence tends to +∞ or −∞.\n\nLet formula_7 be a real-valued function of a real variable. The oscillation of formula_7 on an interval formula_9 in its domain is the difference between the supremum and infimum of formula_7:\nMore generally, if formula_12 is a function on a topological space formula_13 (such as a metric space), then the oscillation of formula_7 on an open set formula_15 is\n\nThe oscillation of a function formula_7 of a real variable at a point formula_18 is defined as the limit as formula_19 of the oscillation of formula_7 on an formula_21-neighborhood of formula_18:\nThis is the same as the difference between the limit superior and limit inferior of the function at formula_18, \"provided\" the point formula_18 is not excluded from the limits.\n\nMore generally, if formula_12 is a real-valued function on a metric space, then the oscillation is\n\n\nIn the last example the sequence is periodic, and any sequence that is periodic without being constant will have non-zero oscillation. However, non-zero oscillation does not usually indicate periodicity.\n\nGeometrically, the graph of an oscillating function on the real numbers follows some path in the \"xy\"-plane, without settling into ever-smaller regions. In well-behaved cases the path might look like a loop coming back on itself, that is, periodic behaviour; in the worst cases quite irregular movement covering a whole region.\n\nOscillation can be used to define continuity of a function, and is easily equivalent to the usual \"ε\"-\"δ\" definition (in the case of functions defined everywhere on the real line): a function ƒ is continuous at a point \"x\" if and only if the oscillation is zero; in symbols, formula_28 A benefit of this definition is that it \"quantifies\" discontinuity: the oscillation gives how \"much\" the function is discontinuous at a point.\n\nFor example, in the classification of discontinuities:\n\nThis definition is useful in descriptive set theory to study the set of discontinuities and continuous points – the continuous points are the intersection of the sets where the oscillation is less than \"ε\" (hence a G set) – and gives a very quick proof of one direction of the Lebesgue integrability condition.\n\nThe oscillation is equivalence to the \"ε\"-\"δ\" definition by a simple re-arrangement, and by using a limit (lim sup, lim inf) to define oscillation: if (at a given point) for a given \"ε\" there is no \"δ\" that satisfies the \"ε\"-\"δ\" definition, then the oscillation is at least \"ε\", and conversely if for every \"ε\" there is a desired \"δ,\" the oscillation is 0. The oscillation definition can be naturally generalized to maps from a topological space to a metric space.\n\nMore generally, if \"f\" : \"X\" → \"Y\" is a function from a topological space \"X\" into a metric space \"Y\", then the oscillation of \"f\" is defined at each \"x\" ∈ \"X\" by\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9027784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9027784", "title": "Prioritization", "text": "Prioritization\n\nPrioritization is the activity that arranges items or activities in order of importance relative to each other.\n\nIn the context of medical evaluation it is the establishment of the importance or the urgency of actions that are necessary to preserve the welfare of client or patient. In the clinical context, establishing priorities aids in the rationale and justification for the use of limited resources. Priority setting is influenced by time, money, and expertise. A risk priority number assessment is one way to establish priorities that may be difficult to establish in a health care setting.\n\nSoftware has been designed to assist professionals in establishing priorities in a specific business setting.\n\n"}
{"id": "425467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425467", "title": "Propositional attitude", "text": "Propositional attitude\n\nA propositional attitude is a mental state held by an agent toward a proposition. Propositional attitudes are often assumed to be the fundamental units of thought and their contents, being propositions, are true or false from the perspective of the person. An agent can have different propositional attitudes toward the same proposition (e.g., \"S believes that her ice-cream is cold,\" and \"S fears that her ice-cream is cold\").\n\nLinguistically, propositional attitudes are denoted by a verb (e.g. \"believed\") governing an embedded \"that\" clause, for example, 'Sally believed that she had won'.\n\nPropositional attitudes have directions of fit: some are meant to reflect the world, others to influence it.\n\nWhat sort of name shall we give to verbs like 'believe' and 'wish' and so forth? I should be inclined to call them 'propositional verbs'. This is merely a suggested name for convenience, because they are verbs which have the \"form\" of relating an object to a proposition. As I have been explaining, that is not what they really do, but it is convenient to call them propositional verbs. Of course you might call them 'attitudes', but I should not like that because it is a psychological term, and although all the instances in our experience are psychological, there is no reason to suppose that all the verbs I am talking of are psychological. There is never any reason to suppose that sort of thing. (Russell 1918, 227).\nWhat a proposition is, is one thing. How we feel about it, or how we regard it, is another. We can accept it, assert it, believe it, command it, contest it, declare it, deny it, doubt it, enjoin it, exclaim it, expect it. Different attitudes toward propositions are called \"propositional attitudes\", and they are also discussed under the headings of \"intentionality\" and \"linguistic modality\".\n\nMany problematic situations in real life arise from the circumstance that many different propositions in many different modalities are in the air at once. In order to compare propositions of different colours and flavours, as it were, we have no basis for comparison but to examine the underlying propositions themselves. Thus we are brought back to matters of language and logic. Despite the name, propositional attitudes are not regarded as psychological attitudes proper, since the formal disciplines of linguistics and logic are concerned with nothing more concrete than what can be said in general about their formal properties and their patterns of interaction.\n\nOne topic of central concern is the relation between the modalities of assertion and belief, perhaps with intention thrown in for good measure. For example, we frequently find ourselves faced with the question of whether or not a person's assertions conform to his or her beliefs. Discrepancies here can occur for many reasons, but when the departure of assertion from belief is intentional, we usually call that a \"lie\".\n\nOther comparisons of multiple modalities that frequently arise are the relationships between belief and knowledge and the discrepancies that occur among observations, expectations, and intentions. Deviations of observations from expectations are commonly perceived as \"surprises\", phenomena that call for \"explanations\" to reduce the shock of amazement.\n\nA number of software systems are now available to simulate propositional attitudes for industrial purposes, for customer relation management systems, decision support and content generation (Galitsky 2012).\n\nIn logic, the formal properties of verbs like \"assert\", \"believe\", \"command\", \"consider\", \"deny\", \"doubt\", \"imagine\", \"judge\", \"know\", \"want\", \"wish\", and a host of others that involve attitudes or intentions toward propositions are notorious for their recalcitrance to analysis.\n(Quine 1956).\n\nOne of the fundamental principles governing identity is that of \"substitutivity\", also known as fungibility — or, as it might well be called, that of \"indiscernibility of identicals\". It provides that, \"given a true statement of identity, one of its two terms may be substituted for the other in any true statement and the result will be true\". It is easy to find cases contrary to this principle. For example, the statements:\n\nare true; however, replacement of the name 'Giorgione' by the name 'Barbarelli' turns (2) into the falsehood:\n\nQuine's example here refers to Giorgio Barbarelli's sobriquet \"Giorgione\", an Italian name roughly glossed as \"Big George.\" The basis of the paradox here is that while the two names signify the same individual (the meaning of the first statement), the names are not themselves identical; the second statement refers to an attribute (origin) that they do not share. See also Use–mention distinction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22153896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22153896", "title": "Roll-off (dumpster)", "text": "Roll-off (dumpster)\n\nIn North America, a roll-off is a usually open top dumpster characterized by a rectangular footprint, utilizing wheels to facilitate rolling the dumpster in place. The container is designed to be transported by special roll-off trucks. Roll-offs are commonly used to contain loads of construction and demolition waste or other waste types. While most roll-off containers have a swinging door on the end for easier disposal of waste, some roll-off containers are not open top and are used with commercial or industrial trash compactors.\n\nConstruction debris may originate from a building site where something is being built, renovated, or demolished. Roll-off dumpsters are also used for various jobs that need much material to be taken away. The material in the roll-off may be taken to a landfill, recycled or disposed/recovered of in some other way.\n\nRoll-off containers have a rectangular footprint typically determined by the size of typical trucks. Roll-off container sizes are determined by the amount of debris they can hold, measured in cubic yards. Typical container sizes in the United States are 10, 15, 20, 30, and 40 cubic yards (or 2-40 cubic meters in other nations). While the roll-offs may be rented by volume, there may be weight limitations. Weight limits may be necessary to ensure compliance with road-use and safety laws and regulations.\n\nMost roll-off providers will have a weight limit for each container size. Containers loaded with more weight than allowed typically result in an overage charge. The maximum weight is specified at the beginning of the job. In cases where the material to be disposed of is especially dense, such as concrete, a container with lower sidewalls is used, to help reduce the risk of exceeding the weight limit.\n\nAfter the container is picked up, it is taken to a disposal facility where it is weighed before (gross) and after (tare) dumping. The difference is the net weight, and is used to calculate charges to the customer. In order to save time, some facilities pre-record weights of trucks and containers. This allows the tare weight to be looked up and eliminates the need for a second weighing.\n\nRoll-offs are placed by roll-off trucks. As the roll-off truck raises its hydraulically operated bed, the roll-off container rolls off the bed. A cable is used to slowly lower the container. After the waste container is loaded, the roll-off truck pulls the filled container onto the roll-off truck by using a cable and winch system. If the roll-off truck is not a winch system, then it is most likely a hook-lift system. A hook-lift system works by the truck extending a 90 degree arm with a hook on the end which hooks under a bar and gently lifts the dumpster onto the truck. Most hook-lift systems are on smaller roll-off trucks as they are usually used for 20 yard containers and under. These smaller systems are usually the preferred option on smaller scale construction jobs such as roof replacement, kitchen remodels, and garage clean-outs. Smaller single-axle trucks are generally viewed as safer operations as they are much lighter and more easily transported in residential areas. When being carried, the roll-off must be covered.\n\nOne problem often encountered with roll-off containers is the liability of scratching or damaging the surface they are placed on. Most roll-off containers have metal rollers for wheels, which can at times scratch or be abrasive to a concrete or asphalt surface. It is recommended to place a protective board such as plywood under the container to avoid a situation where the placement surface can be damaged. Most roll-off companies do not offer plywood, but will place the container on the wood if supplied. The roll-off must be placed on a hard surface other than dirt. Gravel, asphalt, and concrete are all acceptable. If the container is placed on dirt, the wheels may sink after a rainfall event and the truck could get stuck.\n\nThere are many items that are not accepted by roll-off rental companies. These items include but are not limited to chemicals, including paint and petroleum products, tires, and electronics. The prohibition of items is often to comply with laws and regulations concerning disposal of hazardous materials. Roll-off drivers may refuse to pickup loads containing prohibited materials. If the load is picked up, the roll-off rental company may charge the customer additional for cleaning the load and proper handling of the contaminating material.\n\nSome municipalities require that a permit be obtained in order to have a roll-off dumpster delivered. If the container is being set on private property, most cities will not require a permit. Some municipalities require the permit to be obtained by the customer, while others require the permit to be obtained by the roll-off provider. However, many cities do not require permits to have a dumpster delivered.\n\nThere are usually prohibited items that are commonly not allowed for disposal, such as hazardous materials, tires, freon appliances, televisions, paint, asbestos, batteries, oils, fuels, and tar-treated railroad ties because of reulations affecting final waste disposal.\n\n"}
{"id": "371468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371468", "title": "Semiring", "text": "Semiring\n\nIn abstract algebra, a semiring is an algebraic structure similar to a ring, but without the requirement that each element must have an additive inverse.\n\nThe term rig is also used occasionally—this originated as a joke, suggesting that rigs are ri\"n\"gs without \"n\"egative elements, similar to using \"rng\" to mean a r\"i\"ng without a multiplicative \"i\"dentity.\n\nA semiring is a set \"R\" equipped with two binary operations + and ⋅, called addition and multiplication, such that:\n\n\nThis last axiom is omitted from the definition of a ring: it follows from the other ring axioms. Here it does not, and it is necessary to state it in the definition.\n\nThe difference between rings and semirings, then, is that addition yields only a commutative monoid, not necessarily a commutative group. Specifically, elements in semirings do not necessarily have an inverse for the addition.\n\nThe symbol ⋅ is usually omitted from the notation; that is, \"a\"⋅\"b\" is just written \"ab\". Similarly, an order of operations is accepted, according to which ⋅ is applied before +; that is, is \n\nA commutative semiring is one whose multiplication is commutative. An is one whose \"addition\" is idempotent: , that is, is a join-semilattice with zero.\n\nThere are some authors who prefer to leave out the requirement that a semiring have a 0 or 1. This makes the analogy between \"ring\" and \"semiring\" on the one hand and \"group\" and \"semigroup\" on the other hand work more smoothly. These authors often use \"rig\" for the concept defined here.\n\nBy definition, any ring is also a semiring. A motivating example of a semiring is the set of natural numbers N (including zero) under ordinary addition and multiplication. Likewise, the non-negative rational numbers and the non-negative real numbers form semirings. All these semirings are commutative.\n\n\n\n\n\nMuch of the theory of rings continues to make sense when applied to arbitrary semirings.\nIn particular, one can generalise the theory of algebras over commutative rings directly to a theory of algebras over commutative semirings.\nThen a ring is simply an algebra over the commutative semiring Z of integers.\n\nIdempotent semirings are special to semiring theory as any ring which is idempotent under addition is trivial. One can define a partial order ≤ on an idempotent semiring by setting whenever (or, equivalently, if there exists an \"x\" such that ). It is easy to see that 0 is the least element with respect to this order: for all \"a\". Addition and multiplication respect the ordering in the sense that implies and and .\n\nThe and tropical semirings on the reals, are often used in performance evaluation on discrete event systems. The real numbers then are the \"costs\" or \"arrival time\"; the \"max\" operation corresponds to having to wait for all prerequisites of an events (thus taking the maximal time) while the \"min\" operation corresponds to being able to choose the best, less costly choice; and + corresponds to accumulation along the same path.\n\nThe Floyd–Warshall algorithm for shortest paths can thus be reformulated as a computation over a algebra. Similarly, the Viterbi algorithm for finding the most probable state sequence corresponding to an observation sequence in a Hidden Markov model can also be formulated as a computation over a algebra on probabilities. These dynamic programming algorithms rely on the distributive property of their associated semirings to compute quantities over a large (possibly exponential) number of terms more efficiently than enumerating each of them.\n\nA complete semiring is a semiring for which the addition monoid is a complete monoid, meaning that it has an infinitary sum operation Σ for any index set \"I\" and that the following (infinitary) distributive laws must hold:\n\nformula_15\n\nExamples of complete semirings include the power set of a monoid under union; the matrix semiring over a complete semiring is complete.\n\nA continuous semiring is similarly defined as one for which the addition monoid is a continuous monoid: that is, partially ordered with the least upper bounds property, and for which addition and multiplication respect order and suprema. The semiring with usual addition, multiplication and order extended, is a continuous semiring.\n\nAny continuous semiring is complete: this may be taken as part of the definition.\n\nA star semiring (sometimes spelled as starsemiring) is a semiring with an additional unary operator *, satisfying\n\nExamples of star semirings include:\n\nFurther examples:\n\nThe first three examples above are also Conway semirings.\n\n\nWe define a notion of complete star semiring in which the star operator behaves more like the usual Kleene star: for a complete semiring we use the infinitary sum operator to give the usual definition of the Kleene star:\n\nformula_21 where formula_22 and formula_23 for formula_24\n\nExamples of complete star semirings include the first three classes of examples in the previous section: the binary relations semiring; the formal languages semiring and the extended non-negative reals.\n\nIn general, every complete star semiring is also a Conway semiring, but the converse does not hold. An example of Conway semiring that is not complete is the set of extended non-negative rational numbers () with the usual addition and multiplication (this is a modification of the example with extended non-negative reals given in this section by eliminating irrational numbers).\n\nA generalization of semirings does not require the existence of a multiplicative identity, so that multiplication is a semigroup rather than a monoid. Such structures are called \"hemirings\" or \"pre-semirings\". A further generalization are \"left-pre-semirings\", which additionally do not require right-distributivity (or \"right-pre-semirings\", which do not require left-distributivity).\n\nYet a further generalization are \"near-semirings\": in addition to not requiring a neutral element for product, or right-distributivity (or left-distributivity), they do not require addition to be commutative. Just as cardinal numbers form a (class) semiring, so do ordinal numbers form a near-ring, when the standard ordinal addition and multiplication are taken into account. However, the class of ordinals can be turned into a semiring by considering the so-called natural (or Hessenberg) operations instead.\n\nIn category theory, a \"2-rig\" is a category with functorial operations analogous to those of a rig. That the cardinal numbers form a rig can be categorified to say that the category of sets (or more generally, any topos) is a 2-rig.\n\nA semiring (of sets) is a non-empty collection S of sets such that\n\nSuch semirings are used in measure theory. An example of a semiring of sets is the collection of half-open, half-closed real intervals formula_34.\n\nThe term dioid (for \"double monoid\") has been used to mean various types of semirings:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53448372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53448372", "title": "Shogi notation", "text": "Shogi notation\n\nShogi notation is the set of various abbreviatory notational systems used to describe the piece movements of a shogi game record or the positions of pieces on a shogi board.\n\nA game record is called a 棋譜 \"kifu\" in Japanese.\n\nThe system used in English language texts to express shogi moves was established by George Hodges and Glyndon Townhill in 1976 by the second issue of \"Shogi\" magazine. \nA slightly modified version was used in Hosking (1996). It is derived from the algebraic notation used for chess, but differs in several respects. A typical move might be notated P86 or P-8f. The notation format has the following 5 part structure:\n\nAn example using all 5 parts is S72x83+ or S7bx8c+. All parts are obligatory except for the \"origin\" and \"promotion\" parts. (Thus, most notation strings only contain 3 parts.) The \"origin\" part is only indicated when needed to resolve ambiguity. The \"promotion\" part is only needed when there is the possibility of promotion.\n\nWestern notation is not used in Japanese language texts, as it is no more concise than traditional notation with kanji and two ciphers which originated in the Edo period.\n\nThe first letter represents the piece moved. For instance, P is for Pawn. Below are the abbreviations used.\n\nPromoted pieces are indicated by a + preceding the letter. For example, +P is a promoted pawn (と \"tokin\"), +R is a promoted rook (that is, a dragon 龍).\n\nSome Japanese websites (such as 81Dojo) and Japanese authors use two different abbreviations for the promoted rook and promoted bishop in a way more similar to Japanese notation. Thus, D (for \"dragon\") instead of +R and H (for \"horse\") instead of +B.\n\nIn cases where the moving piece is ambiguous, the starting square is added after the letter for the piece but before the movement indication.\n\nFor example, in diagrams below, Black has three golds which can move to square 78. Thus, simply notating G-78 is not enough to indicate the move. The three possible moves are distinguished via the origin specification as G77-78, G68-78, or G79-78.\n\nFollowing the abbreviation for the piece is a symbol for the type of move. There are 3 different indications:\n\nAs examples, P-24 indicates moving one's pawn to the 2d square (without capture), Px24 indicates moving one's pawn to the 24 square and capturing the opponent's piece that was on 24, and P*24 indicates dropping one's pawn in hand to the previously empty 24 square. (Note the x indication is a significant departure from Japanese notation, which has no way of signaling whether a piece was captured.)\n\nThere is some variation for the drop symbol. A * (asterisk) is often used, but some books (e.g. Hosking 1997) use a ’ (apostrophe) instead. Thus, Hosking B’56 is equivalent to Hodges B*5f.\n\nThe simple movement indication (the hyphen -) is not used by Hosking (1997) who does not use a movement symbol. Thus, Hosking P26 is equivalent to Hodges P-2f.\n\nAfter the movement piece indication is the square on which the piece lands. This is indicated by a numeral for the file (1–9) and the rank (1–9), with 11 being the top right corner from Black's perspective and 99 being the bottom left corner. This is based on Japanese notation conventions.\n\nHosking differs from Hodges in that Hosking uses numerals for the rank notation whereas Hodges uses letters (a–i) for the rank.\n\nIf a move entitles the player to promote, then a + is added to the end if the promotion was taken or an = if it was declined. For example, Nx73= indicates an unpromoted knight capturing on 73 without promoting while Nx73+ indicates an unpromoted knight capturing on 73 and promoting. The promotion status is always omitted in situations where promotion is not possible. When promotion is possible, then the promotion status is obligatorily notated.\n\nGame moves in western notation are always numbered (unlike Japanese game records). Additionally, what is numbered are pairs of two moves – the first move by Black, the second by White – instead of numbering each move by each player. This also differs from the Japanese system. For instance, three pairs of moves (or six individual moves) are numbered as 1. P-76 P-34 2. P-26 P-44 3. S-48 S-32. However, in the British \"Shogi\" magazine of the 1970s and 1980s, the pair number convention was not used for tsumeshogi problems, in which case the each player's move is number just as in the Japanese notation conventions.\n\nFollowing western chess conventions, omitted moves are indicated with an ... ellipsis. As a consequence of the way moves are numbered in the western system, all moves by White are notated with an ellipsis prefix in texts. For example, ...P-55 indicates a move by White while P-55 indicates a move by Black. In handicap games, White plays first, so Black's first move is replaced by an ellipsis. For example, 1. ...G-32 2. P-76 G-72.\n\nUnlike western chess, game states like check or checkmate are not typically notated. However, the use of question marks and exclamation points to indicate questionable and good moves, respectively, are occasionally used.\n\nThe earliest way to indicate game records in Japan during the Edo period was to use descriptive sentences such as \"Open the bishop's diagonal, push the rook's pawn, close the bishop's diagonal\" and the like. Soon afterward, a notational system was developed which is mostly the same as what is used in the presentday in Japan.\n\nIn Japanese notation, the notation string has the following five-part format:\n\nA typical move is indicated like ８六歩 (equivalent to western P-86). An example that uses all five parts is ☗８三銀引成 (which could be either S72-83+ or S72x83+ in western notation). The player's side information is optional and the movement and promotion indications are only used in order to resolve ambiguity.\n\nIt is common for the White (\"gote\") and Black (\"sente\") player to be indicated at the beginning of the notation string with either black and white triangles (▲/△) or shogi-piece-shaped pentagons (☗/☖) , such as ▲７六歩△３四歩▲２六歩△３二金 or ☗７六歩☖３四歩☗２六歩☖３二金. However, this is not obligatory: several books notate shogi moves without explicit indication of which player is making the moves. (See the adjacent image for an example.) In such cases, knowing which player the move refers to can be determined by the context in the book. This white/black convention is more common when the moves are not numbered (which is also optional to notate).\n\nFor the board's coordinates, the file is indicated with an Arabic numeral followed by the rank indicated with a Japanese numeral (instead of an Arabic number or letter like in the western system). For example, square 23 in Japanese notation is ２三.\n\nEarlier (for instance, in the Edo period), only Japanese numerals were used.\n\nThere is also an abbreviatory convention: when a piece moves to the same coordinates as the previous move's piece (as in a capture), the position is simply indicated with 同 (which is pronounced \"dō\") instead of the file-rank coordinate numbers. For example, if Black's pawn moved to a square in which White's pawn captured Black's pawn and then both players' bishops recaptured followed by a rook recapture, this could be notated as ☗２四歩 ☖同歩 ☗同角 ☖同角 ☗同飛 which would be equivalent to the western notation sequence 1. P-24 Px24, 2. Bx24 Bx24, 3. Rx24. An alternate symbol 仝 is used instead of 同 in older books.\n\nIt is also possible to encounter Roman numerals for both the file and rank coordinates, such as ☗２４歩 instead of ☗２四歩.\n\nAlso, since Japanese is often written vertically from top to bottom, the notation may be written vertically as well with the top number indicating the file and rank number below the file number. Finally, in older books of the Edo period, the notation may be written from right to left (as is the case with traditional vertical writing) even when the notation is written horizontally. However, this older practice is not used in the modern period, where horizontally writing is read from left to right following European language traditions. (See the 1839 game record image below for such an example.)\n\nPieces are indicated with kanji (instead of letters as in the western system). The piece's kanji follows the piece's board coordinates. The following symbols are used.\n\nPromoted pieces are indicated with a 成 prefix except for the promoted pawn, promoted bishop, and promoted rook, which are と, 馬, 龍, respectively. 兵 is used instead of 歩 in some older texts.\n\nIn tsumeshogi, the character 合 is used essentially as a variable that represents a piece of any value.\n\nWhen there is ambiguity in piece movement, there is a complex system of movement description using the symbols below. The movement descriptors consist of (a) a dropped piece indicator, (b) movement toward destination indicators, and (c) movement origin indicators.\n\nThe symbol for a dropped piece is 打 following the piece's character. In the usual course of a game, most dropped pieces will probably be unambiguous. In these unambiguous cases, explicit notation for the dropped piece is not required and usually omitted (unlike in western notation where the drop notation is obligatory). For example, a western notation such as P*23 will be notated simply as ２三歩 instead of ２三歩打. In other situations, there is a possibility that either a piece that is already in play on the board can move to a certain square or a piece of the same kind that is held in hand can be dropped to that square. In this case, when the piece on the board moves to that square, the notation simply notates the move as usual with no drop indication. However, when the piece in hand is dropped to that location, then the drop indication must be present in the notation in order to resolve the ambiguity. In other words, 打 is only used when the following two conditions are met: (i) a piece is dropped and (ii) there is ambiguity with another piece on the board.\n\nFor ambiguity resolution with pieces on the board, the main notation symbols are 引 for downward movement, 寄 for horizontal movement, and 上 for upward movement. Note that these three indicators describe movement toward their destination square.\n\nIn the example below, three golds can move to the ７八 (= 78) square. The gold that originates on ７七 (= 77) and moves down is notated as ７八金引 (= G77-78). The other two possibilities are notated as ７八金寄 (= G68-78) and ７八金上 (= G79-78).\n\nThe 引 and 上 indicate downward and upward movement, respectively, that can be both vertical as well as diagonal.\n\nThere are two less common alternate symbols used instead of 上: 行 and 入. However, these alternate symbols are reserved for indicating only the two most powerful promoted dragon 龍 and horse 馬 pieces. Thus, ５五龍行 or ５五龍入 instead of ５五龍上, but not ５五金行 or ５五金入.\n\nIn certain situations, an indication of movement toward the destination square (that is, with 引, 寄, 上) is not sufficient to resolve ambiguity. In these cases, the origin square of the piece is notated with a relative positional indicator. These are 右 for a piece moving from a right square (and thus moving leftward) and 左 for a piece moving from a left square (rightward). \n\nThis positional information is relative to each player's directions. Thus, △５二金右 (literally: \"white 5-2 gold right\") refers to the silver on the right from White's perspective (which would be on the left from Black's perspective).\n\nIn the special case of golds and silvers as well as promoted pieces with gold-like movements (成銀, 成桂, 成香, と), it is possible for there to be a three-way ambiguity in upward movement. In this case, a third positional origin indicator is used: 直 for vertical (straight up) movement. \n\nAdditionally, this 直 indicator tends to always be used for vertical movement even when simply using 右 (\"right\") and 左 (\"left\") would suffice. Relatedly, 直 tends to be used only for golds and silvers and not for other pieces.\n\nA piece that promotes is indicated with 成 following the piece's character, such as ７三桂成 (N-73+). If a piece does not promote, this is indicated with 不成 following the piece's character, such as ７三桂不成 (N-73=). There is an alternate symbol for unpromotion: 生 is sometimes used instead of 不成.\n\nUnlike western notation, numbering Japanese game records is not obligatory. Although players' moves often aren't numbered, shogi moves are always counted per player's move. This is commonly seen in checkmate problems where a \"3-move\" ３手 checkmate problem would mean a move sequence of black-white-black. This is unlike western chess which counts each pair of moves as one move. (In western notation for shogi, the move numbering tends to follow western chess notation conventions.)\n\nShogi games are officially over when a player formally resigns. The resignation is notated as 投了 \"tōryō.\" Other possible endings include rare 千日手 Repetition Draw, 反則手 Illegal Move, and the very rare 持将棋 Impasse Draw.\n\nUnlike western notation, a capture of a piece is never explicitly notated in the Japanese system since the capture can be understood in the context of the game.\n\nIn addition to the usual kanji symbols, there are also shorthand versions of piece symbols that can be written very quickly. For several of the symbols, there is variation in what shorthand symbol is used – the ones listed here may not be exhaustive of all the alternatives used in Japan.\n\nA notation used in older times was the \"iroha\" notation. It used the syllables of the Japanese poem \"Iroha\" (いろは歌) (as well as other Japanese characters) to label each square on the shogi board.\n\nFor example, the 23 square was indicated by the symbol を. Tokugawa Ieharu (the tenth shogun 1760–1786) favored this notational system. Therefore, it was used for all castle game records during his reign.\n\nThe Kitao–Kawasaki notation is a hybrid notation introduced by the Nekomado publishing company in English translations of shogi books by Madoka Kitao and Takashi Kaneko. The system incorporates elements of both the western and the Japanese notation systems.\n\nThe order of elements is the same as the western system except that a player's side argument is added.\n\nA typical move is indicated like ☗歩-86 (western equivalent: P-86). An example that uses all 6 parts is ☗銀(72)x83+ (S72x83+ in western notation).\n\n1. Player's Side. Like the Japanese system, the black and white shogi pieces ☗ and ☖ are used.\n\n2. Piece. Like the Japanese system, the characters for the shogi pieces are used. For promoted pieces, pieces that are notated with 成 in Japanese notation are notated with the western symbol + instead. However, unlike the western system, this convention is not used for the pawn, bishop, or rook.\n\nThe convention of using kanji overlooks the issue of non-Japanese handwritten records.\n\n3. Ambiguity Resolution: Origin Coordinates. In cases where the moving piece is ambiguous, the starting square coordinates enclosed in parentheses are added to the string. This is only indicated when needed to resolve ambiguity. Thus, following the example used above, 金(77)-78 is equivalent to western G77-78 and Japanese 7八金引, 金(68)-78 equivalent to G68-78 and 7八金寄, and 金(79)-78 equivalent to G79-78 and 7八金上.\n\n4. Movement Type. The three movement types (-, x, *) are the same as in the western system. Thus: 歩-24, 歩x24, 歩*24. Like the western system (but unlike the Japanese system), this movement indication is obligatory in all contexts.\n\n5. Destination Coordinates. Indicates which square a piece is moved to.\n\nLike the Japanese system, rank (row) coordinates are indicated with a numeral (and not a letter). However, Arabic numerals are used instead of Japanese numerals. For example, 76 is equivalent to Japanese 7六.\n\nWhen a piece is moved to the same location as the preceding piece (in a capture), the designation coordinates are omitted. This is similar to the use of 同 in the Japanese system. For example, the sequence ☗歩-24 ☖歩x ☗角x ☖角x ☗飛x would be equivalent to western 1. P-24 Px24, 2. Bx24 Bx24, 3. Rx24 and Japanese ☗2四歩☖同歩☗同角☖同角☗同飛.\n\n6. Promotion Status. The symbols + and = are used as in the western system.\n\nOther conventions. Like the Japanese system, the numbering of moves is not obligatory. The ellipsis (...) notation for White's moves in the western system is not needed (as ☖ is used instead).\n\nAs an example, a Tempo Loss Bishop Exchange game might proceed and be notated like this:\n\nBelow is another notated game (Ishida opening) showing the more typical Japanese notation where moves are not numbered, dropped pieces are not indicated, and white/black turns are marked. It also shows an example of ambiguity resolution (G69-58/５八金左) and a piece entering a promotion zone that remains unpromoted (Sx23=/２三銀不成).\n\nSFEN is an extension of Forsyth–Edwards Notation (FEN) used for describing board positions of shogi games. \n\nFormally, an SFEN is a text string of ASCII characters. It has three fields that are separated by a space. The fields:\n\n\nThe following is an example (from a Tempo Loss Bishop Exchange opening)\n\nIn this example, the first field is lnsgk2nl/1r4gs1/p1pppp1pp/1p4p2/7P1/2P6/PP1PPPP1P/1SG4R1/LN2KGSNL, the second is b, and the last is Bb.\n\nFor the first field, each piece is represented with a single letter. White's pieces are lowercase letters while Black's pieces are uppercase letters. The set of letters used are the same as the ones used in western notation (i.e., p, +p, l, +l, n, +n, s, +s, g, b, +b, r, +r, k). Each rank is separated by a forward slash (/). The listing of ranks is from top (rank A) to bottom (rank i), and the order to pieces is from file 9 to file 1 (in other words, from left to right as viewed on typical shogi diagram with White as the top player and Black as the bottom player). Empty squares are indicated with numeral corresponding to the number of adjacent empty squares on the same rank. In the example, the first rank A is lnsgk2nl which indicates sequence of lance, knight, silver, gold, king followed by two empty squares to the right of the king and a sequence of knight and lance.\n\nThe second field can be either b for Black's turn to play or w for White's turn to play. In the example, b indicates that Black has the next move.\n\nThe third field contains all of the pieces in hand held by each player. In the example, the Bb indicates that Black has one bishop in hand (B), and White also has one bishop in hand (b).\n\nBelow is another example showing the board position for Yoshiharu Habu's famous 52 silver drop in an NHK game (Bishop Exchange Climbing Silver opening) with Hifumi Katoh.\n\nThe KIF file format is used for saving full games of shogi. Internally, it uses Japanese notation in the UTF-8 text encoding, and each move is disambiguated with an origin square.\n\nThe KI2 file format is similar to the KIF format but more compact. Moves are only disambiguated with the standard Japanese relative direction kanji.\n\nAnother format for saving positions and games of shogi, which only uses ASCII internally. Mostly used in the computer shogi arena.\n\nPortable Shogi Notation is a derivative of the Portable Game Notation used in chess, is expanded to specify shogi pieces and drops. It uses the Hodges coordinate system. It has little support outside of GNU Shogi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27699", "title": "Sign language", "text": "Sign language\n\nSign languages (also known as signed languages) are languages that use the visual-manual modality to convey meaning. Language is expressed via the manual signstream in combination with non-manual elements. Sign languages are full-fledged natural languages with their own grammar and lexicon. This means that sign languages are not universal and they are not mutually intelligible, although there are also striking similarities among sign languages.\n\nLinguists consider both spoken and signed communication to be types of natural language, meaning that both emerged through an abstract, protracted aging process and evolved over time without meticulous planning. Sign language should not be confused with \"body language\", a type of nonverbal communication.\n\nWherever communities of deaf people exist, sign languages have developed, and are at the cores of local deaf cultures. Although signing is used primarily by the deaf and hard of hearing, it is also used by hearing individuals, such as those unable to physically speak, those who have trouble with spoken language due to a disability or condition (augmentative and alternative communication), or those with deaf family members, such as children of deaf adults (CODAs).\n\nIt is unclear how many sign languages currently exist worldwide. Each country generally has its own, native sign language, and some have more than one. The 2013 edition of Ethnologue lists 137 sign languages. Some sign languages have obtained some form of legal recognition, while others have no status at all.\n\nLinguists distinguish natural sign languages from other systems that are precursors to them or derived from them, such as invented manual codes for spoken languages, home sign, \"baby sign\", and signs learned by non-human primates.\n\nGroups of deaf people have used sign languages throughout history. One of the earliest written records of a sign language is from the fifth century BC, in Plato's \"Cratylus\", where Socrates says: \"If we hadn't a voice or a tongue, and wanted to express things to one another, wouldn't we try to make signs by moving our hands, head, and the rest of our body, just as dumb people do at present?\"\n\nUntil the 19th century, most of what is known about historical sign languages is limited to the manual alphabets (fingerspelling systems) that were invented to facilitate transfer of words from a spoken language to a sign language, rather than documentation of the language itself. Pedro Ponce de León (1520–1584) is said to have developed the first manual alphabet.\n\nIn 1620, Juan Pablo Bonet published (‘Reduction of letters and art for teaching mute people to speak’) in Madrid. It is considered the first modern treatise of sign language phonetics, setting out a method of oral education for deaf people and a manual alphabet.\nIn Britain, manual alphabets were also in use for a number of purposes, such as secret communication, public speaking, or communication by deaf people. In 1648, John Bulwer described \"Master Babington\", a deaf man proficient in the use of a manual alphabet, \"contryved on the joynts of his fingers\", whose wife could converse with him easily, even in the dark through the use of tactile signing.\n\nIn 1680, George Dalgarno published \"Didascalocophus, or, The deaf and dumb mans tutor\", in which he presented his own method of deaf education, including an \"arthrological\" alphabet, where letters are indicated by pointing to different joints of the fingers and palm of the left hand. Arthrological systems had been in use by hearing people for some time; some have speculated that they can be traced to early Ogham manual alphabets.\n\nThe vowels of this alphabet have survived in the contemporary alphabets used in British Sign Language, Auslan and New Zealand Sign Language. The earliest known printed pictures of consonants of the modern two-handed alphabet appeared in 1698 with \"Digiti Lingua\" (Latin for \"Language\" [or \"Tongue\"] \"of the Finger\"), a pamphlet by an anonymous author who was himself unable to speak. He suggested that the manual alphabet could also be used by mutes, for silence and secrecy, or purely for entertainment. Nine of its letters can be traced to earlier alphabets, and 17 letters of the modern two-handed alphabet can be found among the two sets of 26 handshapes depicted.\n\nCharles de La Fin published a book in 1692 describing an alphabetic system where pointing to a body part represented the first letter of the part (e.g. Brow=B), and vowels were located on the fingertips as with the other British systems. He described such codes for both English and Latin.\n\nBy 1720, the British manual alphabet had found more or less its present form. Descendants of this alphabet have been used by deaf communities (or at least in classrooms) in former British colonies India, Australia, New Zealand, Uganda and South Africa, as well as the republics and provinces of the former Yugoslavia, Grand Cayman Island in the Caribbean, Indonesia, Norway, Germany and the United States.\n\nFrenchman Charles-Michel de l'Épée published his manual alphabet in the 18th century, which has survived basically unchanged in France and North America until the present time. In 1755, Abbé de l'Épée founded the first school for deaf children in Paris; Laurent Clerc was arguably its most famous graduate. Clerc went to the United States with Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet to found the American School for the Deaf in Hartford, Connecticut, in 1817. Gallaudet's son, Edward Miner Gallaudet, founded a school for the deaf in 1857 in Washington, D.C., which in 1864 became the National Deaf-Mute College. Now called Gallaudet University, it is still the only liberal arts university for deaf people in the world.\n\nInternational Sign, formerly known as Gestuno, is used mainly at international deaf events such as the Deaflympics and meetings of the World Federation of the Deaf. While recent studies claim that International Sign is a kind of a pidgin, they conclude that it is more complex than a typical pidgin and indeed is more like a full sign language.\nWhile the more commonly used term is International Sign, it is sometimes referred to as Gestuno, or International Sign Pidgin and International Gesture (IG). International Sign is a term used by the World Federation of the Deaf and other international organisations.\n\nIn linguistic terms, sign languages are as rich and complex as any spoken language, despite the common misconception that they are not \"real languages\". Professional linguists have studied many sign languages and found that they exhibit the fundamental properties that exist in all languages.\n\nSign languages are not mime—in other words, signs are conventional, often arbitrary and do not necessarily have a visual relationship to their referent, much as most spoken language is not onomatopoeic. While iconicity is more systematic and widespread in sign languages than in spoken ones, the difference is not categorical. The visual modality allows the human preference for close connections between form and meaning, present but suppressed in spoken languages, to be more fully expressed. This does not mean that sign languages are a visual rendition of a spoken language. They have complex grammars of their own and can be used to discuss any topic, from the simple and concrete to the lofty and abstract.\n\nSign languages, like spoken languages, organize elementary, meaningless units called phonemes into meaningful semantic units. (These were once called cheremes (from the Greek word for \"hand\") in the case of sign languages, by analogy to the phonemes (from Greek for \"voice\") of spoken languages, but now also called phonemes, since the function is the same.) This is often called duality of patterning. As in spoken languages, these meaningless units are represented as (combinations of) features, although often also crude distinctions are made in terms of handshape (or \"handform\"), orientation, location (or \"place of articulation\"), movement, and non-manual expression.\n\nCommon linguistic features of many sign languages are the occurrence of classifiers, a high degree of inflection by means of changes of movement, and a topic-comment syntax. More than spoken languages, sign languages can convey meaning by simultaneous means, e.g. by the use of space, two manual articulators, and the signer's face and body. Though there is still much discussion on the topic of iconicity in sign languages, classifiers are generally considered to be highly iconic, as these complex constructions \"function as predicates that may express any or all of the following: motion, position, stative-descriptive, or handling information\". It needs to be noted that the term classifier is not used by everyone working on these constructions. Across the field of sign language linguistics the same constructions are also referred with other terms.\n\nToday, linguists study sign languages as true languages, part of the field of linguistics. However, the category \"sign languages\" was not added to the \"Linguistic Bibliography / Bibliographie Linguistique\" until the 1988 volume, when it appeared with 39 entries.\n\nAlways there is a common misconception that sign languages are somehow dependent on spoken languages: that they are spoken language expressed in signs, or that they were invented by hearing people. Similarities in language processing in the brain between signed and spoken languages further perpetuated this misconception. Hearing teachers in deaf schools, such as Charles-Michel de l'Épée or Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet, are often incorrectly referred to as \"inventors\" of sign language. Instead, sign languages, like all natural languages, are developed by the people who use them, in this case, deaf people, who may have little or no knowledge of any spoken language.\n\nAs a sign language develops, it sometimes borrows elements from spoken languages, just as all languages borrow from other languages that they are in contact with. Sign languages vary in how and how much they borrow from spoken languages. In many sign languages, a manual alphabet (fingerspelling) may be used in signed communication to borrow a word from a spoken language, by spelling out the letters. This is most commonly used for proper names of people and places; it is also used in some languages for concepts for which no sign is available at that moment, particularly if the people involved are to some extent bilingual in the spoken language. Fingerspelling can sometimes be a source of new signs, such as initialized signs, in which the handshape represents the first letter of a spoken word with the same meaning.\n\nOn the whole, though, sign languages are independent of spoken languages and follow their own paths of development. For example, British Sign Language (BSL) and American Sign Language (ASL) are quite different and mutually unintelligible, even though the hearing people of the United Kingdom and the United States share the same spoken language. The grammars of sign languages do not usually resemble those of spoken languages used in the same geographical area; in fact, in terms of syntax, ASL shares more with spoken Japanese than it does with English.\n\nSimilarly, countries which use a single spoken language throughout may have two or more sign languages, or an area that contains more than one spoken language might use only one sign language. South Africa, which has 11 official spoken languages and a similar number of other widely used spoken languages, is a good example of this. It has only one sign language with two variants due to its history of having two major educational institutions for the deaf which have served different geographic areas of the country.\n\nSign languages exploit the unique features of the visual medium (sight), but may also exploit tactile features (tactile sign languages). Spoken language is by and large linear; only one sound can be made or received at a time. Sign language, on the other hand, is visual and, hence, can use a simultaneous expression, although this is limited articulatorily and linguistically. Visual perception allows processing of simultaneous information.\n\nOne way in which many sign languages take advantage of the spatial nature of the language is through the use of classifiers. Classifiers allow a signer to spatially show a referent's type, size, shape, movement, or extent.\n\nThe large focus on the possibility of simultaneity in sign languages in contrast to spoken languages is sometimes exaggerated, though. The use of two manual articulators is subject to motor constraints, resulting in a large extent of symmetry or signing with one articulator only. Further, sign languages, just like spoken languages, depend on linear sequencing of signs to form sentences; the greater use of simultaneity is mostly seen in the morphology (internal structure of individual signs).\n\nSign languages convey much of their prosody through non-manual elements. Postures or movements of the body, head, eyebrows, eyes, cheeks, and mouth are used in various combinations to show several categories of information, including lexical distinction, grammatical structure, adjectival or adverbial content, and discourse functions.\n\nAt the lexical level, signs can be lexically specified for non-manual elements in addition to the manual articulation. For instance, facial expressions may accompany verbs of emotion, as in the sign for \"angry\" in Czech Sign Language. Non-manual elements may also be lexically contrastive. For example, in ASL (American Sign Language), facial components distinguish some signs from other signs. An example is the sign translated as \"not yet\", which requires that the tongue touch the lower lip and that the head rotate from side to side, in addition to the manual part of the sign. Without these features the sign would be interpreted as \"late\". Mouthings, which are (parts of) spoken words accompanying lexical signs, can also be contrastive, as in the manually identical signs for \"doctor\" and \"battery\" in Sign Language of the Netherlands.\n\nWhile the content of a signed sentence is produced manually, many grammatical functions are produced non-manually (i.e., with the face and the torso). Such functions include questions, negation, relative clauses and topicalization. ASL and BSL use similar non-manual marking for yes/no questions, for example. They are shown through raised eyebrows and a forward head tilt.\n\nSome adjectival and adverbial information is conveyed through non-manual elements, but what these elements are varies from language to language. For instance, in ASL a slightly open mouth with the tongue relaxed and visible in the corner of the mouth means 'carelessly', but a similar non-manual in BSL means 'boring' or 'unpleasant'.\n\nDiscourse functions such as turn taking are largely regulated through head movement and eye gaze. Since the addressee in a signed conversation must be watching the signer, a signer can avoid letting the other person have a turn by not looking at them, or can indicate that the other person may have a turn by making eye contact.\n\nThe first studies on iconicity in ASL were published in the late 1970s, and early 1980s. Many early sign language linguists rejected the notion that iconicity was an important aspect of the language. Though they recognized that certain aspects of the language seemed iconic, they considered this to be merely extralinguistic, a property which did not influence the language. However, mimetic aspects of sign language (signs that imitate, mimic, or represent) are found in abundance across a wide variety of sign languages. For example, deaf children learning sign language try to express something but do not know the associated sign, they will often invent an iconic sign that displays mimetic properties. Though it never disappears from a particular sign language, iconicity is gradually weakened as forms of sign languages become more customary and are subsequently grammaticized. As a form becomes more conventional, it becomes disseminated in a methodical way phonologically to the rest of the sign language community. Frishberg (1975) wrote a very influential paper addressing the relationship between arbitrariness and iconicity in ASL. She concluded that though originally present in many signs, iconicity is degraded over time through the application of grammatical processes. In other words, over time, the natural processes of regularization in the language obscures any iconically motivated features of the sign.\n\nSome researchers have suggested that the properties of ASL give it a clear advantage in terms of learning and memory. Psychologist Roger Brown was one of the first to document this benefit. In his study, Brown found that when children were taught signs that had high levels of iconic mapping they were significantly more likely to recall the signs in a later memory task than when they were taught signs that had little or no iconic properties.\n\nA central task for the pioneers of sign language linguistics was trying to prove that ASL was a real language and not merely a collection of gestures or \"English on the hands.\" One of the prevailing beliefs at this time was that 'real languages' must consist of an arbitrary relationship between form and meaning. Thus, if ASL consisted of signs that had iconic form-meaning relationship, it could not be considered a real language. As a result, iconicity as a whole was largely neglected in research of sign languages.\n\nThe cognitive linguistics perspective rejects a more traditional definition of iconicity as a relationship between linguistic form and a concrete, real-world referent. Rather it is a set of selected correspondences between the form and meaning of a sign. In this view, iconicity is grounded in a language user's mental representation (\"construal\" in cognitive grammar). It is defined as a fully grammatical and central aspect of a sign language rather than a peripheral phenomenon.\n\nThe cognitive linguistics perspective allows for some signs to be fully iconic or partially iconic given the number of correspondences between the possible parameters of form and meaning. In this way, the Israeli Sign Language (ISL) sign for \"ask\" has parts of its form that are iconic (\"movement away from the mouth\" means \"something coming from the mouth\"), and parts that are arbitrary (the handshape, and the orientation).\n\nMany signs have metaphoric mappings as well as iconic or metonymic ones. For these signs there are three way correspondences between a form, a concrete source and an abstract target meaning. The ASL sign LEARN has this three way correspondence. The abstract target meaning is \"learning\". The concrete source is putting objects into the head from books. The form is a grasping hand moving from an open palm to the forehead. The iconic correspondence is between form and concrete source. The metaphorical correspondence is between concrete source and abstract target meaning. Because the concrete source is connected to two correspondences linguistics refer to metaphorical signs as \"double mapped\".\nAlthough sign languages have emerged naturally in deaf communities alongside or among spoken languages, they are unrelated to spoken languages and have different grammatical structures at their core.\n\nSign languages may be classified by how they arise.\n\nIn non-signing communities, home sign is not a full language, but closer to a pidgin. Home sign is amorphous and generally idiosyncratic to a particular family, where a deaf child does not have contact with other deaf children and is not educated in sign. Such systems are not generally passed on from one generation to the next. Where they are passed on, creolization would be expected to occur, resulting in a full language. However, home sign may also be closer to full language in communities where the hearing population has a gestural mode of language; examples include various Australian Aboriginal sign languages and gestural systems across West Africa, such as Mofu-Gudur in Cameroon.\n\nA village sign language is a local indigenous language that typically arises over several generations in a relatively insular community with a high incidence of deafness, and is used both by the deaf and by a significant portion of the hearing community, who have deaf family and friends. The most famous of these is probably the extinct Martha's Vineyard Sign Language of the US, but there are also numerous village languages scattered throughout Africa, Asia, and America.\n\nDeaf-community sign languages, on the other hand, arise where deaf people come together to form their own communities. These include school sign, such as Nicaraguan Sign Language, which develop in the student bodies of deaf schools which do not use sign as a language of instruction, as well as community languages such as Bamako Sign Language, which arise where generally uneducated deaf people congregate in urban centers for employment. At first, Deaf-community sign languages are not generally known by the hearing population, in many cases not even by close family members. However, they may grow, in some cases becoming a language of instruction and receiving official recognition, as in the case of ASL.\n\nBoth contrast with speech-taboo languages such as the various Aboriginal Australian sign languages, which are developed by the hearing community and only used secondarily by the deaf. It is doubtful whether most of these are languages in their own right, rather than manual codes of spoken languages, though a few such as Yolngu Sign Language are independent of any particular spoken language. Hearing people may also develop sign to communicate with speakers of other languages, as in Plains Indian Sign Language; this was a contact signing system or pidgin that was evidently not used by deaf people in the Plains nations, though it presumably influenced home sign.\n\nLanguage contact and creolization is common in the development of sign languages, making clear family classifications difficult – it is often unclear whether lexical similarity is due to borrowing or a common parent language, or whether there was one or several parent languages, such as several village languages merging into a Deaf-community language. Contact occurs between sign languages, between sign and spoken languages (contact sign, a kind of pidgin), and between sign languages and gestural systems used by the broader community. One author has speculated that Adamorobe Sign Language, a village sign language of Ghana, may be related to the \"gestural trade jargon used in the markets throughout West Africa\", in vocabulary and areal features including prosody and phonetics.\n\nThe only comprehensive classification along these lines going beyond a simple listing of languages dates back to 1991. The classification is based on the 69 sign languages from the 1988 edition of Ethnologue that were known at the time of the 1989 conference on sign languages in Montreal and 11 more languages the author added after the conference.\n\nIn his classification, the author distinguishes between primary and auxiliary sign languages as well as between single languages and names that are thought to refer to more than one language. The prototype-A class of languages includes all those sign languages that seemingly cannot be derived from any other language. Prototype-R languages are languages that are remotely modelled on a prototype-A language (in many cases thought to have been French Sign Language) by a process Kroeber (1940) called \"stimulus diffusion\". The families of BSL, DGS, JSL, LSF (and possibly LSG) were the products of creolization and relexification of prototype languages. Creolization is seen as enriching overt morphology in sign languages, as compared to reducing overt morphology in spoken languages.\n\nLinguistic typology (going back to Edward Sapir) is based on word structure and distinguishes morphological classes such as agglutinating/concatenating, inflectional, polysynthetic, incorporating, and isolating ones.\n\nSign languages vary in word-order typology. For example, Austrian Sign Language, Japanese Sign Language and Indo-Pakistani Sign Language are Subject-object-verb while ASL is Subject-verb-object. Influence from the surrounding spoken languages is not improbable.\n\nSign languages tend to be incorporating classifier languages, where a classifier handshape representing the object is incorporated into those transitive verbs which allow such modification. For a similar group of intransitive verbs (especially motion verbs), it is the subject which is incorporated. Only in a very few sign languages (for instance Japanese Sign Language) are agents ever incorporated. in this way, since subjects of intransitives are treated similarly to objects of transitives, incorporation in sign languages can be said to follow an ergative pattern.\n\nBrentari classifies sign languages as a whole group determined by the medium of communication (visual instead of auditory) as one group with the features monosyllabic and polymorphemic. That means, that one syllable (i.e. one word, one sign) can express several morphemes, e.g., subject and object of a verb determine the direction of the verb's movement (inflection).\n\nAnother aspect of typology that has been studied in sign languages is their systems for cardinal numbers. Typologically significant differences have been found between sign languages.\n\nChildren who are exposed to a sign language from birth will acquire it, just as hearing children acquire their native spoken language.\n\nThe Critical Period hypothesis suggests that language, spoken or signed, is more easily acquired as a child at a young age versus an adult because of the plasticity of the child's brain. In a study done at the University of McGill, they found that American Sign Language users who acquired the language natively (from birth) performed better when asked to copy videos of ASL sentences than ASL users who acquired the language later in life. They also found that there are differences in the grammatical morphology of ASL sentences between the two groups, all suggesting that there is a very important critical period in learning signed languages.\n\nThe acquisition of non-manual features follows an interesting pattern: When a word that always has a particular non-manual feature associated with it (such as a wh- question word) is learned, the non-manual aspects are attached to the word but don’t have the flexibility associated with adult use. At a certain point, the non-manual features are dropped and the word is produced with no facial expression. After a few months, the non-manuals reappear, this time being used the way adult signers would use them.\n\nSign languages do not have a traditional or formal written form. Many deaf people do not see a need to write their own language.\n\nSeveral ways to represent sign languages in written form have been developed.\n\n\nSo far, there is no consensus regarding the written form of sign language. Except for SignWriting, none are widely used. Maria Galea writes that SignWriting \"is becoming widespread, uncontainable and untraceable. In the same way that works written in and about a well developed writing system such as the Latin script, the time has arrived where SW is so widespread, that it is impossible in the same way to list all works that have been produced using this writing system and that have been written about this writing system.\" In 2015, the Federal University of Santa Catarina accepted a dissertation written in Brazilian Sign Language using Sutton SignWriting for a master's degree in linguistics. The dissertation \"The Writing of Grammatical Non-Manual Expressions in Sentences in LIBRAS Using the SignWriting System\" by João Paulo Ampessan states that \"the data indicate the need for [non-manual expressions] usage in writing sign language\".\n\nFor a native signer, sign perception influences how the mind makes sense of their visual language experience. For example, a handshape may vary based on the other signs made before or after it, but these variations are arranged in perceptual categories during its development. The mind detects handshape contrasts but groups similar handshapes together in one category. Different handshapes are stored in other categories. The mind ignores some of the similarities between different perceptual categories, at the same time preserving the visual information within each perceptual category of handshape variation.\n\nWhen Deaf people constitute a relatively small proportion of the general population, Deaf communities often develop that are distinct from the surrounding hearing community.\nThese Deaf communities are very widespread in the world, associated especially with sign languages used in urban areas and throughout a nation, and the cultures they have developed are very rich.\n\nOne example of sign language variation in the Deaf community is Black ASL. This sign language was developed in the Black Deaf community as a variant during the American era of segregation and racism, where young Black Deaf students were forced to attend separate schools than their white Deaf peers.\n\nOn occasion, where the prevalence of deaf people is high enough, a deaf sign language has been taken up by an entire local community, forming what is sometimes called a \"village sign language\" or \"shared signing community\". Typically this happens in small, tightly integrated communities with a closed gene pool. Famous examples include:\nIn such communities deaf people are generally well integrated in the general community and not socially disadvantaged, \nso much so that it is difficult to speak of a separate \"Deaf\" community.\n\nMany Australian Aboriginal sign languages arose in a context of extensive speech taboos, such as during mourning and initiation rites. They are or were especially highly developed among the Warlpiri, Warumungu, Dieri, Kaytetye, Arrernte, and Warlmanpa, and are based on their respective spoken languages.\n\nA pidgin sign language arose among tribes of American Indians in the Great Plains region of North America (see Plains Indian Sign Language). It was used by hearing people to communicate among tribes with different spoken languages, as well as by deaf people. There are especially users today among the Crow, Cheyenne, and Arapaho. Unlike Australian Aboriginal sign languages, it shares the spatial grammar of deaf sign languages.\nIn the 1500s, a Spanish expeditionary, Cabeza de Vaca, observed natives in the western part of modern-day Florida using sign language, and in the mid-16th century Coronado mentioned that communication with the Tonkawa using signs was possible without a translator. Whether or not these gesture systems reached the stage at which they could properly be called languages is still up for debate. There are estimates indicating that as many as 2% of Native Americans are seriously or completely deaf, a rate more than twice the national average.\n\nSigns may also be used by hearing people for manual communication in secret situations, such as hunting, in noisy environments, underwater, through windows or at a distance.\n\nSome sign languages have obtained some form of legal recognition, while others have no status at all. Sarah Batterbury has argued that sign languages should be recognized and supported not merely as an accommodation for the disabled, but as the communication medium of language communities.\n\nOne of the first demonstrations of the ability for telecommunications to help sign language users communicate with each other occurred when AT&T's videophone (trademarked as the \"Picturephone\") was introduced to the public at the 1964 New York World's Fair – two deaf users were able to freely communicate with each other between the fair and another city. However, video communication did not become widely available until sufficient bandwidth for the high volume of video data became available in the early 2000s.\n\nThe Internet now allows deaf people to talk via a video link, either with a special-purpose videophone designed for use with sign language or with \"off-the-shelf\" video services designed for use with broadband and an ordinary computer webcam. The special videophones that are designed for sign language communication may provide better quality than 'off-the-shelf' services and may use data compression methods specifically designed to maximize the intelligibility of sign languages. Some advanced equipment enables a person to remotely control the other person's video camera, in order to zoom in and out or to point the camera better to understand the signing.\n\nIn order to facilitate communication between deaf and hearing people, sign language interpreters are often used. Such activities involve considerable effort on the part of the interpreter, since sign languages are distinct natural languages with their own syntax, different from any spoken language.\n\nThe interpretation flow is normally between a sign language and a spoken language that are customarily used in the same country, such as French Sign Language (LSF) and spoken French in France, Spanish Sign Language (LSE) to spoken Spanish in Spain, British Sign Language (BSL) and spoken English in the U.K., and American Sign Language (ASL) and spoken English in the US and most of anglophone Canada (since BSL and ASL are distinct sign languages both used in English-speaking countries), etc. Sign language interpreters who can translate between signed and spoken languages that are not normally paired (such as between LSE and English), are also available, albeit less frequently.\n\nWith recent developments in artificial intelligence in computer science, some recent deep learning based machine translation algorithms have been developed which automatically translate short videos containing sign language sentences (often simple sentence consists of only one clause) directly to written language. \n\nInterpreters may be physically present with both parties to the conversation but, since the technological advancements in the early 2000s, provision of interpreters in remote locations has become available. In video remote interpreting (VRI), the two clients (a sign language user and a hearing person who wish to communicate with each other) are in one location, and the interpreter is in another. The interpreter communicates with the sign language user via a video telecommunications link, and with the hearing person by an audio link. VRI can be used for situations in which no on-site interpreters are available.\n\nHowever, VRI cannot be used for situations in which all parties are speaking via telephone alone. With video relay service (VRS), the sign language user, the interpreter, and the hearing person are in three separate locations, thus allowing the two clients to talk to each other on the phone through the interpreter.\nSign language is sometimes provided for television programmes. The signer usually appears in the bottom corner of the screen, with the programme being broadcast full size or slightly shrunk away from that corner. Typically for press conferences such as those given by the Mayor of New York City, the signer appears to stage left or right of the public official to allow both the speaker and signer to be in frame at the same time.\n\nPaddy Ladd initiated deaf programming on British television in the 1980s and is credited with getting sign language on television and enabling deaf children to be educated in sign.\n\nIn traditional analogue broadcasting, many programmes are repeated, often in the early hours of the morning, with the signer present rather than have them appear at the main broadcast time. This is due to the distraction they cause to those not wishing to see the signer. On the BBC, many programmes that broadcast late at night or early in the morning are signed. Some emerging television technologies allow the viewer to turn the signer on and off in a similar manner to subtitles and closed captioning.\n\nLegal requirements covering sign language on television vary from country to country. In the United Kingdom, the Broadcasting Act 1996 addressed the requirements for blind and deaf viewers, but has since been replaced by the Communications Act 2003.\n\nAs with any spoken language, sign languages are also vulnerable to becoming endangered. For example, a sign language used by a small community may be endangered and even abandoned as users shift to a sign language used by a larger community, as has happened with Hawai'i Sign Language, which is almost extinct except for a few elderly signers. Even national sign languages can be endangered; for example, New Zealand Sign Language is losing users. Methods are being developed to assess the language vitality of sign languages.\n\nThere are a number of communication systems that are similar in some respects to sign languages, while not having all the characteristics of a full sign language, particularly its grammatical structure. Many of these are either precursors to natural sign languages or are derived from them.\n\nWhen Deaf and Hearing people interact, signing systems may be developed that use signs drawn from a natural sign language but used according to the grammar of the spoken language. In particular, when people devise one-for-one sign-for-word correspondences between spoken words (or even morphemes) and signs that represent them, the system that results is a manual code for a spoken language, rather than a natural sign language. Such systems may be invented in an attempt to help teach Deaf children the spoken language, and generally are not used outside an educational context.\n\nIt has become popular for hearing parents to teach signs (from ASL or some other sign language) to young hearing children. Since the muscles in babies' hands grow and develop quicker than their mouths, signs can be a beneficial option for better communication. Babies can usually produce signs before they can speak. This reduces the confusion between parents when trying to figure out what their child wants. When the child begins to speak, signing is usually abandoned, so the child does not progress to acquiring the grammar of the sign language.\n\nThis is in contrast to hearing children who grow up with Deaf parents, who generally acquire the full sign language natively, the same as Deaf children of Deaf parents.\n\nInformal, rudimentary sign systems are sometimes developed within a single family. For instance, when hearing parents with no sign language skills have a deaf child, the child may develop a system of signs naturally, unless repressed by the parents. The term for these mini-languages is home sign (sometimes \"home sign\" or \"kitchen sign\").\n\nHome sign arises due to the absence of any other way to communicate. Within the span of a single lifetime and without the support or feedback of a community, the child naturally invents signs to help meet his or her communication needs, and may even develop a few grammatical rules for combining short sequences of signs. Still, this kind of system is inadequate for the intellectual development of a child and it comes nowhere near meeting the standards linguists use to describe a complete language. No type of home sign is recognized as a full language.\n\nThere have been several notable examples of scientists teaching signs to non-human primates in order to communicate with humans, such as \ncommon chimpanzees, \ngorillas and \norangutans. However, linguists generally point out that this does not constitute knowledge of a human \"language\" (as a complete system, rather than simply signs/words). Notable examples of animals who have learned signs include:\n\nOne theory of the evolution of human language states that it developed first as a gestural system, which later shifted to speech. An important question for this gestural theory is what caused the shift to vocalization.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Note: the articles for specific sign languages (e.g. ASL or BSL) may contain further external links, e.g. for learning those languages.\"\n"}
{"id": "4055928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4055928", "title": "Structure (mathematical logic)", "text": "Structure (mathematical logic)\n\nIn universal algebra and in model theory, a structure consists of a set along with a collection of finitary operations and relations that are defined on it.\n\nUniversal algebra studies structures that generalize the algebraic structures such as groups, rings, fields and vector spaces. The term universal algebra is used for structures with no relation symbols.\n\nModel theory has a different scope that encompasses more arbitrary theories, including foundational structures such as models of set theory. From the model-theoretic point of view, structures are the objects used to define the semantics of first-order logic. For a given theory in model theory, a structure is called a model, if it satisfies the defining axioms of that theory, although it is sometimes disambiguated as a \"semantic model\" when one discusses the notion in the more general setting of mathematical models. Logicians sometimes refer to structures as interpretations.\n\nIn database theory, structures with no functions are studied as models for relational databases, in the form of relational models.\n\nFormally, a structure can be defined as a triple formula_1 consisting of a domain \"A\", a signature σ, and an interpretation function \"I\" that indicates how the signature is to be interpreted on the domain. To indicate that a structure has a particular signature σ one can refer to it as a σ-structure.\n\nThe domain of a structure is an arbitrary set; it is also called the underlying set of the structure, its carrier (especially in universal algebra), or its universe (especially in model theory). In classical first-order logic, the definition of a structure prohibits the empty domain.\n\nSometimes the notation formula_2 or formula_3 is used for the domain of formula_4, but often no notational distinction is made between a structure and its domain. (I.e. the same symbol formula_4 refers both to the structure and its domain.)\n\nThe signature formula_6 of a structure consists of a set formula_7 of function symbols and relation symbols along with a function formula_8 that ascribes to each symbol \"s\" a natural number formula_9 which is called the arity of \"s\" because it is the arity of the interpretation of \"s\".\n\nSince the signatures that arise in algebra often contain only function symbols, a signature with no relation symbols is called an algebraic signature. A structure with such a signature is also called an algebra; this should not be confused with the notion of an algebra over a field.\n\nThe interpretation function \"I\" of formula_4 assigns functions and relations to the symbols of the signature. Each function symbol \"f\" of arity \"n\" is assigned an \"n\"-ary function formula_11 on the domain. Each relation symbol \"R\" of arity \"n\" is assigned an \"n\"-ary relation formula_12 on the domain. A nullary function symbol \"c\" is called a constant symbol, because its interpretation \"I(c)\" can be identified with a constant element of the domain.\n\nWhen a structure (and hence an interpretation function) is given by context, no notational distinction is made between a symbol \"s\" and its interpretation \"I(s)\". For example, if \"f\" is a binary function symbol of formula_4, one simply writes formula_14 rather than formula_15.\n\nThe standard signature σ for fields consists of two binary function symbols + and ×, where additional symbols can be derived, such as a unary function symbol ― (uniquely determined by +) and the two constant symbols 0 and 1 (uniquely determined by + and × respectively).\nThus a structure (algebra) for this signature consists of a set of elements \"A\" together with two binary functions, that can be enhanced with a unary function, and two distinguished elements; but there is no requirement that it satisfy any of the field axioms. The rational numbers \"Q\", the real numbers \"R\" and the complex numbers \"C\", like any other field, can be regarded as σ-structures in an obvious way:\n\nIn all three cases we have the standard signature given by\nwith\n\nInterpretation functions:\nand formula_27 and formula_28 are similarly defined.\n\nBut the ring \"Z\" of integers, which is not a field, is also a σ-structure in the same way. In fact, there is no requirement that \"any\" of the field axioms hold in a σ-structure.\n\nA signature for ordered fields needs an additional binary relation such as < or ≤, and therefore structures for such a signature are not algebras, even though they are of course algebraic structures in the usual, loose sense of the word.\n\nThe ordinary signature for set theory includes a single binary relation ∈. A structure for this signature consists of a set of elements and an interpretation of the ∈ relation as a binary relation on these elements.\n\nformula_4 is called an (induced) substructure of formula_30 if\n\nThe usual notation for this relation is formula_38.\n\nA subset formula_39 of the domain of a structure formula_4 is called closed if it is closed under the functions of formula_4, i.e. if the following condition is satisfied: for every natural number \"n\", every \"n\"-ary function symbol \"f\" (in the signature of formula_4) and all elements formula_43, the result of applying \"f\" to the \"n\"-tuple formula_44 is again an element of \"B\": formula_45.\n\nFor every subset formula_39 there is a smallest closed subset of formula_3 that contains \"B\". It is called the closed subset generated by \"B\", or the hull of \"B\", and denoted by formula_48 or formula_49. The operator formula_50 is a finitary closure operator on the set of subsets of formula_3.\n\nIf formula_52 and formula_53 is a closed subset, then formula_54 is an induced substructure of formula_4, where formula_56 assigns to every symbol of σ the restriction to \"B\" of its interpretation in formula_4. Conversely, the domain of an induced substructure is a closed subset.\n\nThe closed subsets (or induced substructures) of a structure form a lattice. The meet of two subsets is their intersection. The join of two subsets is the closed subset generated by their union. Universal algebra studies the lattice of substructures of a structure in detail.\n\nLet σ = {+, ×, −, 0, 1} be again the standard signature for fields. When regarded as σ-structures in the natural way, the rational numbers form a substructure of the real numbers, and the real numbers form a substructure of the complex numbers. The rational numbers are the smallest substructure of the real (or complex) numbers that also satisfies the field axioms.\n\nThe set of integers gives an even smaller substructure of the real numbers which is not a field. Indeed, the integers are the substructure of the real numbers generated by the empty set, using this signature. The notion in abstract algebra that corresponds to a substructure of a field, in this signature, is that of a subring, rather than that of a subfield.\n\nThe most obvious way to define a graph is a structure with a signature σ consisting of a single binary relation symbol \"E\". The vertices of the graph form the domain of the structure, and for two vertices \"a\" and \"b\", formula_58  means that \"a\" and \"b\" are connected by an edge. In this encoding, the notion of induced substructure is more restrictive than the notion of subgraph. For example, let \"G\" be a graph consisting of two vertices connected by an edge, and let \"H\" be the graph consisting of the same vertices but no edges. \"H\" is a subgraph of \"G\", but not an induced substructure. The notion in graph theory that corresponds to induced substructures is that of induced subgraphs.\n\nGiven two structures formula_4 and formula_30 of the same signature σ, a (σ-)homomorphism from formula_4 to formula_30 is a map formula_63 that preserves the functions and relations. More precisely:\n\n\nThe notation for a homomorphism \"h\" from formula_4 to formula_30 is formula_70.\n\nFor every signature σ there is a concrete category σ-Hom which has σ-structures as objects and σ-homomorphisms as morphisms.\n\nA homomorphism formula_70 is sometimes called strong if for every \"n\"-ary relation symbol \"R\" and any elements formula_72 such that formula_73, there are formula_64 such that formula_75 and formula_76\nThe strong homomorphisms give rise to a subcategory of σ-Hom.\n\nA (σ-)homomorphism formula_77 is called a (σ-)embedding if it is one-to-one and\n\n\nThus an embedding is the same thing as a strong homomorphism which is one-to-one.\nThe category σ-Emb of σ-structures and σ-embeddings is a concrete subcategory of σ-Hom.\n\nInduced substructures correspond to subobjects in σ-Emb. If σ has only function symbols, σ-Emb is the subcategory of monomorphisms of σ-Hom. In this case induced substructures also correspond to subobjects in σ-Hom.\n\nAs seen above, in the standard encoding of graphs as structures the induced substructures are precisely the induced subgraphs. However, a homomorphism between graphs is the same thing as a homomorphism between the two structures coding the graph. In the example of the previous section, even though the subgraph \"H\" of \"G\" is not induced, the identity map id: \"H\" → \"G\" is a homomorphism. This map is in fact a monomorphism in the category σ-Hom, and therefore \"H\" is a subobject of \"G\" which is not an induced substructure.\n\nThe following problem is known as the \"homomorphism problem\":\n\nEvery constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) has a translation into the homomorphism problem. Therefore, the complexity of CSP can be studied using the methods of finite model theory.\n\nAnother application is in database theory, where a relational model of a database is essentially the same thing as a relational structure. It turns out that a conjunctive query on a database can be described by another structure in the same signature as the database model. A homomorphism from the relational model to the structure representing the query is the same thing as a solution to the query. This shows that the conjunctive query problem is also equivalent to the homomorphism problem.\n\nStructures are sometimes referred to as \"first-order structures\". This is misleading, as nothing in their definition ties them to any specific logic, and in fact they are suitable as semantic objects both for very restricted fragments of first-order logic such as that used in universal algebra, and for second-order logic. In connection with first-order logic and model theory, structures are often called models, even when the question \"models of what?\" has no obvious answer.\n\nEach first-order structure formula_83 has a satisfaction relation formula_84 defined for all formulas formula_85 in the language consisting of the language of formula_83 together with a constant symbol for each element of \"M\", which is interpreted as that element.\nThis relation is defined inductively using Tarski's T-schema.\n\nA structure formula_83 is said to be a model of a theory \"T\" if the language of formula_83 is the same as the language of \"T\" and every sentence in \"T\" is satisfied by formula_83. Thus, for example, a \"ring\" is a structure for the language of rings that satisfies each of the ring axioms, and a model of ZFC set theory is a structure in the language of set theory that satisfies each of the ZFC axioms.\n\nAn \"n\"-ary relation \"R\" on the universe \"M\" of a structure formula_83 is said to be definable (or explicitly definable, or formula_91-definable) if there is a formula φ(\"x\"...,\"x\") such that\n\nIn other words, \"R\" is definable if and only if there is a formula φ such that\n\nis correct.\n\nAn important special case is the definability of specific elements. An element \"m\" of \"M\" is definable in formula_83 if and only if there is a formula φ(\"x\") such that\n\nA relation \"R\" is said to be definable with parameters (or formula_96-definable) if there is a formula φ with parameters from formula_83 such that \"R\" is definable using φ. Every element of a structure is definable using the element itself as a parameter.\n\nIt should be noted that some authors use \"definable\" to mean \"definable without parameters\", while other authors mean \"definable with parameters\". Broadly speaking, the convention that \"definable\" means \"definable without parameters\" is more common amongst set theorists, while the opposite convention is more common amongst model theorists.\n\nRecall from above that an \"n\"-ary relation \"R\" on the universe \"M\" of a structure formula_83 is explicitly definable if there is a formula φ(\"x\"...,\"x\") such that\n\nHere the formula φ used to define a relation \"R\" must be over the signature of formula_83 and so φ may not mention \"R\" itself, since \"R\" is not in the signature of formula_83. If there is a formula φ in the extended language containing the language of formula_83 and a new symbol \"R\", and the relation \"R\" is the only relation on formula_83 such that formula_104, then \"R\" is said to be implicitly definable over formula_83.\n\nBy Beth's theorem, every implicitly definable relation is explicitly definable.\n\nStructures as defined above are sometimes called s to distinguish them from the more general s. A many-sorted structure can have an arbitrary number of domains. The sorts are part of the signature, and they play the role of names for the different domains. Many-sorted signatures also prescribe on which sorts the functions and relations of a many-sorted structure are defined. Therefore, the arities of function symbols or relation symbols must be more complicated objects such as tuples of sorts rather than natural numbers.\n\nVector spaces, for example, can be regarded as two-sorted structures in the following way. The two-sorted signature of vector spaces consists of two sorts \"V\" (for vectors) and \"S\" (for scalars) and the following function symbols:\n\nIf \"V\" is a vector space over a field \"F\", the corresponding two-sorted structure formula_106 consists of the vector domain formula_107, the scalar domain formula_108, and the obvious functions, such as the vector zero formula_109, the scalar zero formula_110, or scalar multiplication formula_111.\n\nMany-sorted structures are often used as a convenient tool even when they could be avoided with a little effort. But they are rarely defined in a rigorous way, because it is straightforward and tedious (hence unrewarding) to carry out the generalization explicitly.\n\nIn most mathematical endeavours, not much attention is paid to the sorts. A many-sorted logic however naturally leads to a type theory. As Bart Jacobs puts it: \"A logic is always a logic over a type theory.\" This emphasis in turn leads to categorical logic because a logic over a type theory categorically corresponds to one (\"total\") category, capturing the logic, being fibred over another (\"base\") category, capturing the type theory.\n\nBoth universal algebra and model theory study classes of (structures or) algebras that are defined by a signature and a set of axioms. In the case of model theory these axioms have the form of first-order sentences. The formalism of universal algebra is much more restrictive; essentially it only allows first-order sentences that have the form of universally quantified equations between terms, e.g.  \"x\" \"y\" (\"x\" + \"y\" = \"y\" + \"x\"). One consequence is that the choice of a signature is more significant in universal algebra than it is in model theory. For example, the class of groups, in the signature consisting of the binary function symbol × and the constant symbol 1, is an elementary class, but it is not a variety. Universal algebra solves this problem by adding a unary function symbol .\n\nIn the case of fields this strategy works only for addition. For multiplication it fails because 0 does not have a multiplicative inverse. An ad hoc attempt to deal with this would be to define 0 = 0. (This attempt fails, essentially because with this definition 0 × 0 = 1 is not true.) Therefore, one is naturally led to allow partial functions, i.e., functions that are defined only on a subset of their domain. However, there are several obvious ways to generalize notions such as substructure, homomorphism and identity.\n\nIn type theory, there are many sorts of variables, each of which has a type. Types are inductively defined; given two types δ and σ there is also a type σ → δ that represents functions from objects of type σ to objects of type δ. A structure for a typed language (in the ordinary first-order semantics) must include a separate set of objects of each type, and for a function type the structure must have complete information about the function represented by each object of that type.\n\nThere is more than one possible semantics for higher-order logic, as discussed in the article on second-order logic. When using full higher-order semantics, a structure need only have a universe for objects of type 0, and the T-schema is extended so that a quantifier over a higher-order type is satisfied by the model if and only if it is disquotationally true. When using first-order semantics, an additional sort is added for each higher-order type, as in the case of a many sorted first order language.\n\nIn the study of set theory and category theory, it is sometimes useful to consider structures in which the domain of discourse is a proper class instead of a set. These structures are sometimes called class models to distinguish them from the \"set models\" discussed above. When the domain is a proper class, each function and relation symbol may also be represented by a proper class.\n\nIn Bertrand Russell's \"Principia Mathematica\", structures were also allowed to have a proper class as their domain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19669868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19669868", "title": "Takako Saito", "text": "Takako Saito\n\nTakako Saito (born 1929) is a Japanese artist. Closely associated with Fluxus, the international collective of avant-garde artists that was active primarily in the 1960s and 1970s, Saito contributed a number of performances and artworks to the movement, which continue to be exhibited in Fluxus exhibitions to the present day. She currently lives in Düsseldorf in Germany. She is most famous for pieces like \"Silent Music\" or for her special Chess sets.\n\nSaito was born in Sabae-Shi, Fukui Province in Japan. Five Years after studying psychology at the Japan Women's University, she became involved with \"Sōzō Biiku undŏ\", the 'Creative Art Education' movement. Founded 1952 by Sadajirŏ Kubo, the movement focussed on encouraging creativity through free will. Whilst attending a summer camp organized by the movement, Saito met a Tokyo member Ay-O, an artist actively engaged in encouraging avant-garde groups in Japan. Ay-O became an important source of information for Saito about the avant-garde, first in Tokyo, and then, later, in New York City, where he moved in 1958. Intrigued by the reports being sent back by Ay-O, Saito also travelled to New York in 1963 ostensibly to work as a designer for a textile wholesaler and later studying at NY university, Brooklyn Museum Art School and Art Student League. It was through Ay-O that she was introduced to George Maciunas, founder and organiser of Fluxus, and one of the central members of the New York avant-garde.\n\nGeorge Maciunas was fascinated by Japanese craftsmanship and owned some Japanese boxes. He was so impressed with Saito's craftmanship that he asked her to contribute a series of disrupted chess sets to sell in his new Flux shop on Canal Street, SoHo, New York. Maciunas was so delighted by \"Spice Chess\" in particular that he 'even took credit for it on occasion.'. Even after developing some distance to Fluxus Saito maintained contact with him until Maciunas' death.\n\n\"After a while, Maciunas proposed having dinner together every evening. In his opinion, buying food for many was more economical than buying for one... He called it Flux Dinner Commune. So George, Paik, Takako, Shigeko and I started this part-time collective life. For the first few days, the men went shopping and the girls cooked. However we found it inconvenient, because George came back rather late from his office and then often didn't buy what we wanted to cook... It didn't last long, because we got jobs at night. George was discouraged, but bravely said, \"Well, work comes first, dinner second.\" Mieko Shiomi \n\nSaito remained part of the Fluxus movement throughout the 1960s and 70s, producing multi-media, installation and sculptural work in collaboration with other artists such as Robert Filliou, George Brecht, Dorothy Iannone, Gerhard Rühm, Ben Vautier, Dick Higgins and Bob Watts. Saito has contributed pieces to many Fluxus collaborations, including \"Fluxus 1\" (1964) and the \"Flux Cabinet\" (1975–77). She is perhaps most well known for her \"Silent Music\" piece. Her output was diverse and she is also remembered for the various special chess sets including \"Smell Chess\" and \"Spice Chess\", and that were often included in the \"Flux Boxes\" from 1964 onwards, which was part of a Fluxus series of game variations of Chess.\n\nSaito left New York in 1968, leading a peripatetic lifestyle until 1978. Saito lived in France, Germany, England and Italy, working with George Brecht, Robert Filliou, and with the Beau Geste Press, publishing artist's books. From 1979 to 1983, she taught at the University of Essen. Later pieces have maintained the fluxus ideal of eroding the boundaries between performer and viewer;\n\n'Saito's \"You and Me Shop\" again includes the idea of exchange with the viewer and of collaborative artistic work. In a small shop resembling a market stall, the artist as sales woman offered an arranged selection of those small things or materials which she also used in her objects: dried onion skins, chestnuts, pieces of wood. Here, the interaction with the viewer started with the joint selection, placement and fixation of the offered items on paper plates. It ended with the handing over of the object to the respective participant.' Virtual Museum of Modernism \nAside from solo exhibitions in Düsseldorf, Cologne, Fukui, New York, Kansas, Bremen, Kaunas and Schwerin, she has featured in recent exhibitions including Fluxus retrospectives at the Chapel Studio in Balatonboglár in 2002 and at Tate Modern London in 2008 and the \"Re-Imagining Asia\" at the House of World Cultures in Berlin.\n\nSince 1978, Saito has been living and working in Düsseldorf.\n\n"}
{"id": "52948436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52948436", "title": "Takeda Kiyoko", "text": "Takeda Kiyoko\n\nCho Kiyoko (June 20, 1917 – April 12, 2018), better known as Takeda Kiyoko, was a Japanese scholar of the history of ideas. In the 1950s she contributed to the people-to-people diplomacy that was hurt by the World War II, aimed at restoring human relations and understanding among Asian people, including Chinese, the Filipino, Indian and other Asian countries. She was the founder for the Social Studies Institute at the International Christian University (ICU) in Tokyo, Takeda Kiyoko was a professor emerita at ICU with a PhD in Literature from the University of Tokyo in 1961.\n\nTakeda Kiyoko was born in Hyogo Prefecture, and after graduating from the Department of English Studies at the Kobe College, she went to the United States in 1939 and studied at Olivet College as an exchange student. When she finished Olivet, she extended her study abroad at Columbia University for two years, transferred to Union Theological Seminary in the City of New York Graduate School. Takeda's chance to move from Olivet University in Michigan to New York was that her teaching adviser M. Holmes Hartshorne, a scholar and translator for works by Kierkegaard and Immanuel Kant. Hartshorne introduced her to his own mentor Dr. Reinhold Niebuhr, and Takeda was invited to New York. Dr. and Mrs. Niebuhr took care of her as guardians when Japan and the United States opened up the war so that she could stay in the United States for further studies. Takeda was one of those students who were deported to Japan on a Swedish vessel on personnel exchange treaty.\n\nDuring the World War II in Japan, Takeda tried to communicate with the military officers in charge of a factory she was a chaperon, how those Japanese high school and college students volunteer at the facilities were malnourished, by presenting the data of their weight she had listed.\nAlthough students nicknamed her after a fable character \"Urashima Taro\" or a person completely lost coming back from abroad. While pretending to obey the military official and national propaganda that Japan would win the War, Takeda found relief to know that those students disbelieved in the propaganda or they whispered among them the signs of defeat.\n\nIt was during the Christian Youth Convention in Amsterdam in 1939 which she joined as an undergraduate at the Kobe College, and she started her thought about Japan and her relationship to other countries with lasting impact that she was unwelcome as a young woman coming from Japan. As she tried to acquaint with a Chinese woman student who lead the student protest activities in China, that person replied Takeda needed to persuade the Japanese forces to leave her nation before becoming a friend of hers.\n\nSoon after Japan surrendered, she published \"Shisō no Kagaku\" with Tsurumi Shunsuke and his sister Kazuko along with Maruyama Masao. \"Shisō no kagaku\" was among numerous magazines popped up post-war period, when common people wanted to express themselves. It was unique as it accepted essays from anybody with no discrimination on the authors' academic or sociological background, not limited to politically active students, and printed them on their pages pieces written by nurses, teachers, or social workers for poor factory areas in Tokyo.\n\nTakeda appreciates the trend in the late 1940s to early 1950s in Japanese philosophy that people sought to find their own policy, or defined it as \"common men's philosophy \" (hitobito no tetsugaku).\nTo realize world peace after World War II, Takeda started to analyze politics and international relations from the viewpoint of ideological history, and on the other hand, she showed an example of <private diplomacy> or emphasized people-to-people trust among Asian including Japanese and Chinese, the Filipino, Indian and others. She confirmed with herself at the 3rd World Conference of Christian Youth held in India in December 1952.<br>\nIn 1953 Takeda started teaching as an associate professor at International Christian University researching to review the historic relationship between Japan and Asia, and led a community that evolved to the Asian Culture Research Institute in 1971.\n\nTakeda received a PhD of Literature from the University of Tokyo in 1961 with her book \"Ningenkan no sōkōku : kindai Nihon no shisō to Kirisutokyō\" (1967). It was in 1978 when she received the Publishing Culture Award from Mainichi Shinbun for \"Tennōkan no sōkoku : 1945-nen zengo\", originally a serial in the \"World\" magazine, translated as \"The dual-image of the Japanese Emperor\".\n\nIn 1997, she was awarded the Christian Merit Award from the Christian Association of Japan with recognition of long-standing achievements in the Christian world. She has served for \"Kujo kagakusha no kai\" (Article 9 Society) in Japan as a founding member. Kiyoko died in April 2018 at the age of 100.\n\nShunsuke Tsurumi, Masao Maruyama (scholar), \n\n\"The dual-image of the Japanese Emperor\" (1988)\n"}
{"id": "31275701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31275701", "title": "Thurman v. City of Torrington", "text": "Thurman v. City of Torrington\n\nThurman v. City of Torrington, DC, 595 F.Supp. 1521 (1985) was a court decision concerning Tracey Thurman, a Connecticut homemaker who sued the city police department in Torrington, Connecticut, claiming a failure of equal protection under the law against her abusive husband Charles \"Buck\" Thurman, Sr.\n\nAfter Tracey Thurman was attacked, stabbed, and nearly killed by her husband on June 10, 1983, a subsequent civil lawsuit judged that the local police had ignored growing signs of domestic violence and had casually dismissed restraining orders and other legal bars to keep Charles \"Buck\" Thurman, Sr. away from his wife. With this lawsuit, filed in 1984, Thurman was the first woman in America to sue a town and its police department for violating her civil rights, claiming the police had ignored the violence because she was married to the perpetrator. She was awarded $2.3 million.\n\nThe Thurman lawsuit brought about sweeping national reform of domestic violence laws, including the \"Thurman Law\" (aka the Family Violence Prevention and Response Act) instituted in Connecticut in 1986, making domestic violence an automatically arrestable offense, even if the victim does not wish to press charges.\n\nTracey Thurman's story was later made into a 1989 television movie, entitled \"\", starring Nancy McKeon as Tracey, Dale Midkiff as Buck, Bruce Weitz as Tracey's lawyer Burton Weinstein, and Philip Baker Hall as presiding Judge Blumenfeld.\n"}
{"id": "12700262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12700262", "title": "Toroidal and poloidal", "text": "Toroidal and poloidal\n\nThe earliest use of these terms cited by the Oxford English Dictionary (OED) is by Walter M. Elsasser (1946) in the context of the generation of the Earth's magnetic field by currents in the core, with \"toroidal\" being parallel to lines of latitude and \"poloidal\" being in the direction of the magnetic field (i.e. towards the poles).\n\nThe OED also records the later usage of these terms in the context of toroidally confined plasmas, as encountered in magnetic confinement fusion. In the plasma context, the toroidal direction is the long way around the torus, the corresponding coordinate being denoted by \"z\" in the slab approximation or formula_1 or formula_2 in magnetic coordinates; the poloidal direction is the short way around the torus, the corresponding coordinate being denoted by \"y\" in the slab approximation or formula_3 in magnetic coordinates. (The third direction, normal to the magnetic surfaces, is often called the \"radial direction\", denoted by \"x\" in the slab approximation and variously formula_4, formula_5, \"r\", formula_6, or \"s\" in magnetic coordinates.)\n\nAs a simple example from the physics of magnetically confined plasmas, consider an axisymmetric system with circular, concentric magnetic flux surfaces of radius formula_7 (a crude approximation to the magnetic field geometry in an early [Tokamak] but topologically equivalent to any toroidal magnetic confinement system with nested flux surfaces) and denote the toroidal angle by formula_1 and the poloidal angle by formula_3.\nThen the Toroidal/Poloidal coordinate system relates to standard Cartesian Coordinates by these transformation rules:\n\nwhere formula_13.\n\nThe natural choice geometrically is to take formula_14, giving the toroidal and poloidal directions shown by the arrows in the figure above, but this makes formula_15 a left-handed curvilinear coordinate system. As it is usually assumed in setting up \"flux coordinates\" for describing magnetically confined plasmas that the set formula_15 forms a \"right\"-handed coordinate system, formula_17, we must either reverse the poloidal direction by taking formula_18, or reverse the toroidal direction by taking formula_19. Both choices are used in the literature.\n\nTo study single particle motion in toroidally confined plasma devices, velocity and acceleration vectors must be known. Considering the natural choice formula_14, the unit vectors of toroidal and poloidal coordinates system formula_21 can be expressed as:\n\naccording to Cartesian coordinates. The position vector is expressed as:\n\nThe velocity vector is then given by:\n\nand the acceleration vector is:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20299758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20299758", "title": "UpStage", "text": "UpStage\n\nUpStage is an open source server-side application that has been purpose built for Cyberformance: multiple artists collaborate in real time via the UpStage platform to create and present live theatrical performances, for audiences who can be online (from anywhere in the world) or in a shared space, and who can interact with the performance via a text chat tool. It can also be understood as a form of digital puppetry. It is the first open source platform designed specifically for avatar performances.\n\nUpStage was developed during 2003 by programmer Douglas Bagnall, to realise the vision of cyberformance troupe Avatar Body \"Collision\"; the group had been creating live performance on the internet using free chat applications such as iVisit and the Palace, and wanted to create an application that better met their artistic needs. The first version of the software was created with a grant from the Smash Palace Collaboration Fund, a joint initiative of Creative New Zealand and the NZ Ministry for Research, Science and Technology; it was launched on 9 January 2004 and began to be used by artists and students around the world, as well as by the originators, Avatar Body \"Collision\".\n\nIn 2006, the School of Computing and Mathematical Sciences at the Auckland University of Technology began a relationship with the UpStage project, which has seen teams of final year software development students work on UpStage as a real-world software development project. This has provided invaluable ongoing maintenance and development for the software.\n\nAlso in 2006, UpStage received a second grant, this time from the Community Partnership Fund of the New Zealand government's Digital Strategy, which enabled the development of UpStage V2. Douglas Bagnall was once again the lead developer, working this time in conjunction with the AUT students. UpStage V2 was launched in June 2007, with a two-week exhibition at the New Zealand Film Archive and the first UpStage festival, 070707. The festival featured 13 performances by artists from around the world and took place over a 12-hour period on 7 July 2007. \n\nA second festival was held on 080808 (8–9 August 2008), this time covering an 18-hour period and involving artists from at least 14 time zones. It was reviewed in the Australian Stage Online. Following this, festivals were held annually on the successive monthly dates until 121212 (12 December 2012) when the festival extended over a period of one week and included cyberformance in UpStage and other online platforms. A number of works from previous festivals were restaged as a retrospective programme within the festival.\n\nAlthough \"131313\" was not possible, the tenth birthday of UpStage was celebrated 13 months after 121212, with a mini-festival of three performances and a meeting to discuss the future of UpStage. At this point, UpStage was unfunded and sustained by volunteers and the (also voluntary) work of the AUT student team. The meeting took place physically in Wellington, New Zealand, and online participants joined via UpStage. Everyone agreed that the project should continue - somehow - and also agreed that the software itself needs to be completely redeveloped, in order to take advantage of newer technologies and be more easily developed and maintained by globally dispersed open source developers.\n\nAs a web-based server-side application, UpStage can be accessed by both performers and audiences from almost any internet connected computer, using any operating system and browser; computers behind firewalls may require specific ports to be open, and the browser must have the Flash player plug-in as this is used to serve the media to the browser.\n\n\"Players\" (performers) log into UpStage and have access to a \"workshop\" or backstage area where they can upload media (graphics and audio), create \"stages\", and assign media to stages. Once on the stage, a logged-in player has access to numerous tools which allow them to manipulate the media - place, move and speak aloud with graphical avatars (using text2speech), change backdrops, play audio files, draw directly on the stage in real time, add live web cam feeds, use text chat and perform other tasks in order to create and present a performance.\n\nAudience members (also known as \"chatters\") do not log in - they simply follow a link from an email or another web page, and arrive at the stage which loads as a web page in their browser. They do not see any of the player tools, but they see and hear everything that the players are creating on the stage, and they can chat in the text chat along with the players. Audience chat appears grey and silent, while player chat is black and spoken aloud.\n\nNewcomers (both players and audience) to UpStage can learn the basics very quickly, and the fact that no additional software download is required (unless the Flash player plug-in is not already installed) makes it very accessible. The chat interface encourages playful banter and audience members contribute to and embellish the performance via the chat.\n\nThe media used in UpStage performances is created outside of UpStage, using graphic or audio software. Once optimised for Upstage, it is then uploaded via the web interface known as the Workshop and becomes available to everyone who has a log in for that particular UpStage server.\n\nUpStage is an open source project; it can be downloaded from the GitHub site and installed on a web server, giving control over who has log-in access. The interface can also be customised.\n\nCurrent:\nPast (for complete lists of artists who have worked with UpStage, please visit the UpStage web site and browse festival documentation and archives):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8193519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8193519", "title": "Village Homes", "text": "Village Homes\n\nVillage Homes is a planned community in Davis, Yolo County, California. It is designed to be ecologically sustainable by harnessing the energies and natural resources that exists in the landscape, especially stormwater and solar energy.\n\nThe principal designer of Village Homes was architect Mike Corbett who began planning in the 1960s, with construction continuing from south to north from the 1970s through the 1980s. Village Homes was completed in 1982, and has attracted international attention from its inception as an early model of an environmentally friendly housing development, including a visit from then-French President François Mitterrand.\n\nThe 225 homes and 20 apartment units that now are the Village Homes community use solar panels for heating, and they are oriented around common areas at the rear of the buildings, rather than around the street at the front. All streets are oriented east-west, with all lots positioned north-south. This feature has become standard practice in Davis and elsewhere since it enables homes with passive solar designs to make full use of the sun's energy throughout the year. The development also uses natural drainage, called bioswales, to collect water to irrigate the common areas and support the cultivation of edible foods, such as nut and fruit trees and vegetables for consumption by residents, without incurring the cost of using treated municipal water.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "152214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152214", "title": "Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory", "text": "Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory\n\nIn set theory, Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory, named after mathematicians Ernst Zermelo and Abraham Fraenkel, is an axiomatic system that was proposed in the early twentieth century in order to formulate a theory of sets free of paradoxes such as Russell's paradox. Today, Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory with the historically controversial axiom of choice (AC) included is the standard form of axiomatic set theory and as such is the most common foundation of mathematics. Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory with the axiom of choice included is abbreviated ZFC, where C stands for \"choice\", and ZF refers to the axioms of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory with the axiom of choice excluded. \n\nZermelo–Fraenkel set theory is intended to formalize a single primitive notion, that of a hereditary well-founded set, so that all entities in the universe of discourse are such sets. Thus the axioms of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory refer only to pure sets and prevent its models from containing urelements (elements of sets that are not themselves sets). Furthermore, proper classes (collections of mathematical objects defined by a property shared by their members which are too big to be sets) can only be treated indirectly. Specifically, Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory does not allow for the existence of a universal set (a set containing all sets) nor for unrestricted comprehension, thereby avoiding Russell's paradox. Von Neumann–Bernays–Gödel set theory (NBG) is a commonly used conservative extension of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory that does allow explicit treatment of proper classes.\n\nThere are many equivalent formulations of the axioms of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory. Most of the axioms state the existence of particular sets defined from other sets. For example, the axiom of pairing says that given any two sets \"a\" and \"b\" there is a new set {\"a\", \"b\"} containing exactly \"a\" and \"b\". Other axioms describe properties of set membership. A goal of the axioms is that each axiom should be true if interpreted as a statement about the collection of all sets in the von Neumann universe (also known as the cumulative hierarchy).\n\nThe metamathematics of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory has been extensively studied. Landmark results in this area established the logical independence of the axiom of choice from the remaining ZFC axioms (see Axiom of choice#Independence) and of the continuum hypothesis from ZFC.The consistency of a theory such as ZFC cannot be proved within the theory itself.\n\nFormally, ZFC is a one-sorted theory in first-order logic. The signature has equality and a single primitive binary relation, set membership, which is usually denoted ∈. The formula \"a\" ∈ \"b\" means that the set \"a\" is a member of the set \"b\" (which is also read, \"\"a\" is an element of \"b\" or \"a\" is in \"b\"\").\n\nThe modern study of set theory was initiated by Georg Cantor and Richard Dedekind in the 1870s. However, the discovery of paradoxes in naive set theory, such as Russell's paradox, led to the desire for a more rigorous form of set theory that was free of these paradoxes.\n\nIn 1908, Ernst Zermelo proposed the first axiomatic set theory, Zermelo set theory. However, as first pointed out by Abraham Fraenkel in a 1921 letter to Zermelo, this theory was incapable of proving the existence of certain sets and cardinal numbers whose existence was taken for granted by most set theorists of the time, notably the cardinal number ℵ and the set {Z, ℘(Z), ℘(℘(Z))...}, where Z is any infinite set and ℘ is the power set operation. Moreover, one of Zermelo's axioms invoked a concept, that of a \"definite\" property, whose operational meaning was not clear. In 1922, Fraenkel and Thoralf Skolem independently proposed operationalizing a \"definite\" property as one that could be formulated as a first order theory whose atomic formulas were limited to set membership and identity. They also independently proposed replacing the axiom schema of specification with the axiom schema of replacement. Appending this schema, as well as the axiom of regularity (first proposed by Dimitry Mirimanoff in 1917), to Zermelo set theory yields the theory denoted by ZF. Adding to ZF either the axiom of choice (AC) or a statement that is equivalent to it yields ZFC.\n\nThere are many equivalent formulations of the ZFC axioms; for a discussion of this see . The following particular axiom set is from . The axioms per se are expressed in the symbolism of first order logic. The associated English prose is only intended to aid the intuition.\nAll formulations of ZFC imply that at least one set exists. Kunen includes an axiom that directly asserts the existence of a set, in addition to the axioms given below (although he notes that he does so only “for emphasis”). Its omission here can be justified in two ways. First, in the standard semantics of first-order logic in which ZFC is typically formalized, the domain of discourse must be nonempty. Hence, it is a logical theorem of first-order logic that something exists — usually expressed as the assertion that something is identical to itself, ∃x(x=x). Consequently, it is a theorem of every first-order theory that something exists. However, as noted above, because in the intended semantics of ZFC there are only sets, the interpretation of this logical theorem in the context of ZFC is that some \"set\" exists. Hence, there is no need for a separate axiom asserting that a set exists. Second, however, even if ZFC is formulated in so-called free logic, in which it is not provable from logic alone that something exists, the axiom of infinity (below) asserts that an \"infinite\" set exists. This implies that \"a\" set exists and so, once again, it is superfluous to include an axiom asserting as much.\n\nTwo sets are equal (are the same set) if they have the same elements.\n\nThe converse of this axiom follows from the substitution property of equality. If the background logic does not include equality \"=\", \"x\"=\"y\" may be defined as an abbreviation for the following formula:\n\nIn this case, the axiom of extensionality can be reformulated as\n\nwhich says that if \"x\" and \"y\" have the same elements, then they belong to the same sets.\n\nEvery non-empty set \"x\" contains a member \"y\" such that \"x\" and \"y\" are disjoint sets.\n\nor in modern notation:\nformula_5 \n\nThis implies, for example, that no set is an element of itself and that every set has an ordinal rank.\n\nSubsets are commonly constructed using set builder notation. For example, the even integers can be constructed as the subset of the integers formula_6 satisfying the congruence modulo predicate formula_7:\n\nIn general, the subset of a set \"z\" obeying a formula formula_9(\"x\") with one free variable \"x\" may be written as:\n\nThe axiom schema of specification states that this subset always exists (it is an axiom \"schema\" because there is one axiom for each formula_9). Formally, let formula_9 be any formula in the language of ZFC with all free variables among formula_13 (\"y\" is \"not\" free in formula_9). Then:\n\nNote that the axiom schema of specification can only construct subsets, and does not allow the construction of sets of the more general form:\n\nThis restriction is necessary to avoid Russell's paradox and its variants that accompany naive set theory with unrestricted comprehension.\n\nIn some other axiomatizations of ZF, this axiom is redundant in that it follows from the axiom schema of replacement and the axiom of the empty set.\n\nOn the other hand, the axiom of specification can be used to prove the existence of the empty set, denoted formula_17, once at least one set is known to exist (see above). One way to do this is to use a property formula_9 which no set has. For example, if \"w\" is any existing set, the empty set can be constructed as\n\nThus the axiom of the empty set is implied by the nine axioms presented here. The axiom of extensionality implies the empty set is unique (does not depend on \"w\"). It is common to make a definitional extension that adds the symbol formula_17 to the language of ZFC.\n\nIf \"x\" and \"y\" are sets, then there exists a set which contains \"x\" and \"y\" as elements.\n\nThe axiom schema of specification must be used to reduce this to a set with exactly these two elements. The axiom of pairing is part of Z, but is redundant in ZF because it follows from the axiom schema of replacement, if we are given a set with at least two elements. The existence of a set with at least two elements is assured by either the axiom of infinity, or by the axiom schema of specification and the axiom of the power set applied twice to any set.\n\nThe union over the elements of a set exists. For example, the union over the elements of the set formula_22 is formula_23.\n\nThe axiom of union states that for any set of sets formula_24 there is a set formula_25 containing every element that is a member of some member of formula_24:\nAlthough this formula doesn't directly assert the existence of formula_28, the set formula_28 can be constructed from formula_25 in the above using the axiom schema of specification:\n\nThe axiom schema of replacement asserts that the image of a set under any definable function will also fall inside a set.\n\nFormally, let formula_9 be any formula in the language of ZFC whose free variables are among formula_33, so that in particular formula_34 is not free in formula_9. Then:\n\nIn other words, if the relation formula_9 represents a definable function formula_38, formula_25 represents its domain, and formula_40 is a set for every formula_41, then the range of formula_38 is a subset of some set formula_34. The form stated here, in which formula_34 may be larger than strictly necessary, is sometimes called the axiom schema of collection.\n\nLet formula_45 abbreviate formula_46, where formula_47 is some set. (We can see that formula_48 is a valid set by applying the Axiom of Pairing with formula_49 so that the set formula_50 is formula_51). Then there exists a set \"X\" such that the empty set formula_17 is a member of \"X\" and, whenever a set \"y\" is a member of \"X\", then formula_53 is also a member of \"X\".\n\nMore colloquially, there exists a set \"X\" having infinitely many members. (It must be established, however, that these members are all different, because if two elements are the same, the sequence will loop around in a finite cycle of sets. The axiom of regularity prevents this from happening.) The minimal set \"X\" satisfying the axiom of infinity is the von Neumann ordinal ω, which can also be thought of as the set of natural numbers formula_55.\n\nBy definition a set \"z\" is a subset of a set \"x\" if and only if every element of \"z\" is also an element of \"x\":\n\nThe Axiom of Power Set states that for any set \"x\", there is a set \"y\" that contains every subset of \"x\":\n\nThe axiom schema of specification is then used to define the power set \"P(x)\" as the subset of such a \"y\" containing the subsets of \"x\" exactly:\n\nAxioms 1–8 define ZF. Alternative forms of these axioms are often encountered, some of which are listed in . Some ZF axiomatizations include an axiom asserting that the empty set exists. The axioms of pairing, union, replacement, and power set are often stated so that the members of the set \"x\" whose existence is being asserted are just those sets which the axiom asserts \"x\" must contain.\n\nThe following axiom is added to turn ZF into ZFC:\n\nFor any set \"X\", there is a binary relation \"R\" which well-orders \"X\". This means \"R\" is a linear order on \"X\" such that every nonempty subset of \"X\" has a member which is minimal under \"R\".\n\nGiven axioms 1–8, there are many statements equivalent to axiom 9, the best known of which is the axiom of choice (AC), which goes as follows. Let \"X\" be a set whose members are all non-empty. Then there exists a function \"f\" from \"X\" to the union of the members of \"X\", called a \"choice function\", such that for all one has . Since the existence of a choice function when \"X\" is a finite set is easily proved from axioms 1–8, AC only matters for certain infinite sets. AC is characterized as nonconstructive because it asserts the existence of a choice set but says nothing about how the choice set is to be \"constructed.\" Much research has sought to characterize the definability (or lack thereof) of certain sets whose existence AC asserts.\n\nOne motivation for the ZFC axioms is the cumulative hierarchy of sets introduced by John von Neumann. In this viewpoint, the universe of set theory is built up in stages, with one stage for each ordinal number. At stage 0 there are no sets yet. At each following stage, a set is added to the universe if all of its elements have been added at previous stages. Thus the empty set is added at stage 1, and the set containing the empty set is added at stage 2. The collection of all sets that are obtained in this way, over all the stages, is known as V. The sets in V can be arranged into a hierarchy by assigning to each set the first stage at which that set was added to V.\n\nIt is provable that a set is in V if and only if the set is pure and well-founded; and provable that V satisfies all the axioms of ZFC, if the class of ordinals has appropriate reflection properties. For example, suppose that a set \"x\" is added at stage α, which means that every element of \"x\" was added at a stage earlier than α. Then every subset of \"x\" is also added at stage α, because all elements of any subset of \"x\" were also added before stage α. This means that any subset of \"x\" which the axiom of separation can construct is added at stage α, and that the powerset of \"x\" will be added at the next stage after α. For a complete argument that V satisfies ZFC see .\n\nThe picture of the universe of sets stratified into the cumulative hierarchy is characteristic of ZFC and related axiomatic set theories such as Von Neumann–Bernays–Gödel set theory (often called NBG) and Morse–Kelley set theory. The cumulative hierarchy is not compatible with other set theories such as New Foundations.\n\nIt is possible to change the definition of \"V\" so that at each stage, instead of adding all the subsets of the union of the previous stages, subsets are only added if they are definable in a certain sense. This results in a more \"narrow\" hierarchy which gives the constructible universe \"L\", which also satisfies all the axioms of ZFC, including the axiom of choice. It is independent from the ZFC axioms whether \"V\" = \"L\". Although the structure of \"L\" is more regular and well behaved than that of \"V\", few mathematicians argue that \"V\" = \"L\" should be added to ZFC as an additional \"axiom of constructibility\".\n\nAs noted earlier, proper classes (collections of mathematical objects defined by a property shared by their members which are too big to be sets) can only be treated indirectly in ZF (and thus ZFC).\nAn alternative to proper classes while staying within ZF and ZFC is the \"virtual class\" notational construct introduced by , where the entire construct y ∈ { x | Fx } is simply defined as Fy. This provides a simple notation for classes that can contain sets but need not themselves be sets, while not committing to the ontology of classes (because the notation can be syntactically converted to one that only uses sets). Quine's approach built on the earlier approach of . Virtual classes are also used in , , and in the Metamath implementation of ZFC.\n\nThe axiom schemata of replacement and separation each contain infinitely many instances. included a result first proved in his 1957 Ph.D. thesis: if ZFC is consistent, it is impossible to axiomatize ZFC using only finitely many axioms. On the other hand, Von Neumann–Bernays–Gödel set theory (NBG) can be finitely axiomatized. The ontology of NBG includes proper classes as well as sets; a set is any class that can be a member of another class. NBG and ZFC are equivalent set theories in the sense that any theorem not mentioning classes and provable in one theory can be proved in the other.\n\nGödel's second incompleteness theorem says that a recursively axiomatizable system that can interpret Robinson arithmetic can prove its own consistency only if it is inconsistent. Moreover, Robinson arithmetic can be interpreted in general set theory, a small fragment of ZFC. Hence the consistency of ZFC cannot be proved within ZFC itself (unless it is actually inconsistent). Thus, to the extent that ZFC is identified with ordinary mathematics, the consistency of ZFC cannot be demonstrated in ordinary mathematics. The consistency of ZFC does follow from the existence of a weakly inaccessible cardinal, which is unprovable in ZFC if ZFC is consistent. Nevertheless, it is deemed unlikely that ZFC harbors an unsuspected contradiction; it is widely believed that if ZFC were inconsistent, that fact would have been uncovered by now. This much is certain — ZFC is immune to the classic paradoxes of naive set theory: Russell's paradox, the Burali-Forti paradox, and Cantor's paradox.\n\nIf consistent, ZFC cannot prove the existence of the inaccessible cardinals that category theory requires. Huge sets of this nature are possible if ZF is augmented with Tarski's axiom. Assuming that axiom turns the axioms of infinity, power set, and choice (7 − 9 above) into theorems.\n\nMany important statements are independent of ZFC (see list of statements undecidable in ZFC). The independence is usually proved by forcing, whereby it is shown that every countable transitive model of ZFC (sometimes augmented with large cardinal axioms) can be expanded to satisfy the statement in question. A different expansion is then shown to satisfy the negation of the statement. An independence proof by forcing automatically proves independence from arithmetical statements, other concrete statements, and large cardinal axioms. Some statements independent of ZFC can be proven to hold in particular inner models, such as in the constructible universe. However, some statements that are true about constructible sets are not consistent with hypothesized large cardinal axioms.\n\nForcing proves that the following statements are independent of ZFC:\n\n\nRemarks:\n\n\nA variation on the method of forcing can also be used to demonstrate the consistency and unprovability of the axiom of choice, i.e., that the axiom of choice is independent of ZF. The consistency of choice can be (relatively) easily verified by proving that the inner model L satisfies choice. (Thus every model of ZF contains a submodel of ZFC, so that Con(ZF) implies Con(ZFC).) Since forcing preserves choice, we cannot directly produce a model contradicting choice from a model satisfying choice. However, we can use forcing to create a model which contains a suitable submodel, namely one satisfying ZF but not C.\n\nAnother method of proving independence results, one owing nothing to forcing, is based on Gödel's second incompleteness theorem. This approach employs the statement whose independence is being examined, to prove the existence of a set model of ZFC, in which case Con(ZFC) is true. Since ZFC satisfies the conditions of Gödel's second theorem, the consistency of ZFC is unprovable in ZFC (provided that ZFC is, in fact, consistent). Hence no statement allowing such a proof can be proved in ZFC. This method can prove that the existence of large cardinals is not provable in ZFC, but cannot prove that assuming such cardinals, given ZFC, is free of contradiction.\n\nThe project to unify set theorists behind additional axioms to resolve the Continuum Hypothesis or other meta-mathematical ambiguities is sometimes known as \"Gödel's program\". Mathematicians currently debate which axioms are the most plausible or \"self-evident\", which axioms are the most useful in various domains, and about to what degree usefulness should be traded off with plausibility; some \"multiverse\" set theorists argue that usefulness should be the sole ultimate criterion in which axioms to customarily adopt. One school of thought leans on expanding the \"iterative\" concept of a set to produce a set-theoretic universe with an interesting and complex but reasonably tractable structure by adopting forcing axioms; another school advocates for a tidier, less cluttered universe, perhaps focused on a \"core\" inner model.\n\nZFC has been criticized both for being excessively strong and for being excessively weak, as well as for its failure to capture objects such as proper classes and the universal set.\n\nMany mathematical theorems can be proven in much weaker systems than ZFC, such as Peano arithmetic and second-order arithmetic (as explored by the program of reverse mathematics). Saunders Mac Lane and Solomon Feferman have both made this point. Some of \"mainstream mathematics\" (mathematics not directly connected with axiomatic set theory) is beyond Peano arithmetic and second-order arithmetic, but still, all such mathematics can be carried out in ZC (Zermelo set theory with choice), another theory weaker than ZFC. Much of the power of ZFC, including the axiom of regularity and the axiom schema of replacement, is included primarily to facilitate the study of the set theory itself.\n\nOn the other hand, among axiomatic set theories, ZFC is comparatively weak. Unlike New Foundations, ZFC does not admit the existence of a universal set. Hence the universe of sets under ZFC is not closed under the elementary operations of the algebra of sets. Unlike von Neumann–Bernays–Gödel set theory (NBG) and Morse–Kelley set theory (MK), ZFC does not admit the existence of proper classes. A further comparative weakness of ZFC is that the axiom of choice included in ZFC is weaker than the axiom of global choice included in NBG and MK.\n\nThere are numerous mathematical statements undecidable in ZFC. These include the continuum hypothesis, the Whitehead problem, and the normal Moore space conjecture. Some of these conjectures are provable with the addition of axioms such as Martin's axiom, large cardinal axioms to ZFC. Some others are decided in ZF+AD where AD is the axiom of determinacy, a strong supposition incompatible with choice. One attraction of large cardinal axioms is that they enable many results from ZF+AD to be established in ZFC adjoined by some large cardinal axiom (see projective determinacy). The Mizar system and Metamath have adopted Tarski–Grothendieck set theory, an extension of ZFC, so that proofs involving Grothendieck universes (encountered in category theory and algebraic geometry) can be formalized.\n\n\nRelated axiomatic set theories:\n\n\n\n"}
